https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111450.Quidditch_Through_the_Ages
“I've read worse.” - Rita Skeeter on Quidditch Through the AgesI love this super witty and funny companion to the Harry Potter books. It's been created with such love for detail, it's clear to see that Joanne had much fun writing it. Maybe even as much fun as me reading it.My favourite parts are the history of Quidditch and how it spread to other countries and continents. I especially loved the part about New Zealand.Now, if you love Harry Potter and haven't yet read this you should reconsider your life choices. Get a move!Find more of my books on Instagram
Game On!!!  GO TEAM! I didn't know what to expect about this book written by the magical J.K. Rowling about the "history" of the magic sport of Quidditch.However, I was happily surprised that while some chapters explaining the rules of the "sport" are kinda tiresome, they were the few, since other chapters were really amusing and entertaining.You "learn" why the decission of using brooms to fly.Also, you "learn" about the official Quidditch teams on the British league, but even also you will le

This was sadly my least favorite book from the Harry Potter universe.It was still enjoyable to listen to since even "the least interesting from HP" is still HP.

Quidditch Through the Ages, J.K.(Joanne kathleen) Rowling, Kennilworthy Whisp (Pseudonym)Quidditch Through the Ages is a 2001 book written by British author J.
K. Rowling using the pseudonym of Kennilworthy Whisp about Quidditch in the Harry Potter universe.
It purports to be the Hogwarts library's copy of the non-fiction book of the same name mentioned in several novels of the Harry Potter series.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوم ماه آگوست سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: کوییدیچ در گذر زمان؛ اثر: جی.کی.
رولینگ این کتاب را تحت نام مستعار کنیل ورتی ویسپ نوشت، که در دنیای داستان های هری پاتر، یک کارشناس کوییدیچ است.
I think that Rita said it very well: "I've read worse.". It was a fun, quick read but... A bit dull if you ask me. There was a lot of effort to make it funny, but it just felt a bit forced. But I have to admire JK that she put so much thought into the whole universe and has so much knowledge about it. That's fantastic! But I believe that Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them where just a bit better.
For every Harry Potter fan out there, there is a book in the fictional library, that somehow wizards allowed for it to be shared with us muggles.
But for you muggles out there, this book has been approved to be shared, and it talks about the most famous sport in the wizarding world - Quidditch.
While I was listening to it (Yes, I have the audible version - actually the second audio book I have ever read/listened to), this book made me feel like I was a part of this world, the same feeling I always get when I read the Harry Potter series.
Es ist einfach der Wahnsinn, was J.K. Rowling für eine Fantasie besitzt. So ein detailreiches Handbuch über die Geschichte des Quidditch im Wandel der Zeiten mit vielen verschiedenen Spielern, Mannschaften und Anekdoten. Dieses Büchlein enthält darüber hinaus auch einige liebevoll skizzierte Zeichnungen, bspw. von einem fliegenden Besen oder dem Quidditchspielfeld. Also bekommt auch dieses Buch aus der Hogwarts Bibliothek von mir nicht nur 5 Sterne, sondern auch wieder eine uneingeschränkte Leseempfehlung für alle Harry Potter Fans! :)
I gave this 5 out of 5 not because it was a phenomenal work of literary fiction, but because of the time and effort that J.K. Rowling put into creating this amazing sport, the history, the teams, the rules, everything is phenomenally done!
They are a team that after they win they fly around with fiery sparks coming from their broom ends in magical formations which is highly anticipated by the viewers.
Moose Jaw is a town not far from where I live and they have planes called Snowbirds that fly together in the most amazing formations and people from all over come to watch.
My students are reading the first two Harry Potter books.
I just finished the book and created my own student workbook and homework assignments because there are none on this book.
If you are a teacher and would like a copy of the material I'd love to share.
I worked way too long and hard on it, to not share it :pThis book is about Quidditch; the most popular sport in the wizarding world and especially at Hogwarts.
This book is written like a text book that the students at Hogwarts were able to check out.Update: My students really enjoyed this book!
Ver en la lista de préstamos del libro el nombre de Cedric Diggory y llorar a mares.
Slightly better than FB, this one reads like a long a boring textbook on the history of a wizarding game.But that's probably because it's exactly that. :)Don't get me wrong. It's fascinating in its way, but I've never cared much for ANY kind of sports history. It bores me to tears. :) At least this has magic, no? It's written well. It still just happens to be a short history.
When I watched Harry Potter, I was amused by the wizarding sport #1, Quidditch, but nothing more.
the enthusiasm was palpable and I'm not in the least bit surprised that there are some people in this world that actually are playing Quidditch and holding tournaments.This book is one of two school books of Harry's that can be found in the library of Hogwarts.
‘Mr Whisp shows a lot of promise. If he keeps up the good work, he may well find himself sharing a photoshoot with me one of these days!’— Gilderoy Lockhart, author, Magical Me‘Bet you anything it’ll be a bestseller. Go on, I bet you.’— Ludovic Bagman, England and Wimbourne Wasps Beater(Need I say more?)Blog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram
Just like Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, this is an informative book. We get to learn the history of Quidditch (a popular sport in the Wizarding World.), other games using Broomsticks, Quidditch Teams, Game rules etc.. It's really a fascinating read and I enjoyed it :)EVERYTHING IS NOSTALGIC.
ورزشی که دسته جارو یا همان جاروهای چوبی و جادویی عنصرِ اصلی آن هستنداین کتاب برای آن دسته از دوستان که به داستان های «جادوگری» همچون داستان های «هری پاتر» و یا داستان های غیرواقعی و افسانه ای علاقمند هستند، میتواند خواندنی و جالب باشدبه بخش هایی از این کتاب در زیر اشاره میکنمبازی آلمانی «استیش استاک»: در این بازی مثانۀ باد شدۀ یک اژدها را به انتهای یک تیر شش متری می بستند، یکی از بازیکنانِ جارو سوار مسئولِ مراقبت از مثانۀ اژدها بودیک سر طنابی را به دور کمر محافظ مثانه و سر دیگر آن را به تیر دروازه میبستند...
‘I’ve read worse.’ – Rita Skeeter, Daily Prophet And I was like SHUT UP, you old douche-bag!
I usually don’t indulge myself much in sports section but Quidditch has always been alluring one!The originality of game – initially known as  “Kwidditch” is quite peculiarly appealing.
Later on, The Ministry of Magic banned its use in the game replacing it with charmed Snitch.
And all of the sudden nostalgia hits you while relishing the pages – The first game of Harry Potter, Ronald Weasley, Fred and George Weasley (*actually almost the whole Weasley Family, even Ginny played it) and all that cheering for the house – Gryffindor!
Funnier and more interesting than Fantastic Beasts. Also, it read more like a genuine Hogwarts text book than Fantastic Beasts did, which was just basically a giant list with a brief summary of various creatures. This had far more magic and history and information in it.
Osnovna pravila kvidiča smo savladali zajedno sa Harijem koji je, nakon što je pokazao zavidnu veštinu letenja, bio izabran za tragača.
Naravno, kvidič nije oduvek bio onakav kakvim smo ga mi doživeli u serijalu, te je ovaj vodič pred nama kako bismo pre svega upoznali nastanak igre, a potom se i dobro zabavili čitajući najrazličitije opise pravila i komičnih situacija sa terena.Postoji toliko detalja koji su fantastični i koji mame osmeh na lice, ali ipak bih izdvojila timove koji igraju za Britaniju i Irsku, kao i opise popularnih poteza koje čarobnjaci i veštice imaju prilike da gledaju na utakmicama.
J. K. Rowling is officially my favourite author everrrrr. This 64 paged book was a lot more interesting than most of the 500 paged books I've read. I really loved reading about the history of quidditch, the rules and everything and I'm not one bit of a sports fan!
So, in the increasing hysteria mounting over the advent of the final Harry Potter book, I have been reading anything I can get my hands on before we all know how it ends and the fun is over!
This teeny little book is quite funny and reads in about 10 minutes.
Written exclusively for charity, it includes a libary check-out card in the front with "H.
Utterly charming, it is more evidence that Rowling's universe is systematically and meticulously plotted out to the last detail, including the similarities between the golden snitch and the now endangered bird, the Golden Snidget!
Oh my god! This was bad! I could have died if I didn't skip like 20 pages! This contained so many unnecessary details!!!! Yeah there were some interesting facts that I enjoyed but most of the book was blah blah blah I hate that I rated 2 stars to a book that belongs to my all time favorite book series But I had to!
Final: 3.50Fue muy entretenido, me gustó mucho, pero me dejo con ganas de más, es que fue tan corto que asshhhhh, lo termine en una sentada, triste pero cierto.
Another little book Rowling wrote in order to collect money for Comic Relief.
I'm not much of a sports person myself, but I do watch the Soccer World Championship and European Championship games so I know what kind of atmosphere Rowling was aiming for and she managed to evoke it (in the actual series as well as here).Did you know that people are actually competing in Quidditch nowadays?
It's just little tidbits of quirky information that give a deeper insight into the wizarding world and show just how well thought-out it is and always has been.
Fun to read for fans of the Harry Potter series! I am now a loyal fan of the Quidditch team The Chudley Cannons. Their change of motto from 'We shall conquer' to 'Let's all just keep our fingers crossed and hope for the best' is hilarious
Much better than Fantastic Beasts.
Fantastic quick read on Qudditch. Go Puddlemere United!
The book was filled with rules, history... everything quidditch. For someone new to the Harry Potter world it was very good and full of great information to help me know the game better
“Undoubtedly the most skilled Quidditch nation in South America is Peru, which is tipped to become the first Latin World Cup winner within ten years.”why am i weirdly proud of peru LOL
I can't believe it took me so long to read this!
I really enjoyed reading about this faux history of Quidditch.
Quidditch games were always some of my favourite scenes to read about in the main series, so it was really cool to hear about how it emerged and the rules.
Rowling has such a dry sense of humour when it comes to books like these, and I always especially love reading Dumbledore's hilarious introductions.
My favourite chapters were probably the one listing all of the Quidditch league teams, and the one on the spread of Quidditch worldwide.
The Potter world is ever expanding-and I love it!
