https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3464.True_Believer
Jeremy received a letter in the mail from a woman named Doris from Boone Creek, North Carolina, inviting him to come to their tiny town to investigate some ghostly lights that appear in the town cemetery.
But when Doris sends Jeremy to the town library to begin his research on the town’s history, he meets Doris’s granddaughter, the librarian, Lexie Darnell, and his life was forever changed.
Lexie loved living in Boone Creek.
Over his time in Boone Creek, Jeremy immersed himself in the town history and studied the cemetery and the surrounding areas.
Dicen que normalmente se conoce a los escritores por una obra: que una única novela es lo que les da la fama. Dicen, no sé si será cierto o no, y mucho menos en el caso de este escritor; aunque te vendan sus novelas como el autor que escribió El cuaderno de Noah. Con esto no quiero decir que ésta novela sea mala, ni mucho menos, es más, me ha gustado bastante, sin embargo, y después de leer Querido John, de este mismo autor, esperaba algo más.De todas maneras, es una muy buena novela.
This was my first Sparks' book and I really liked it.
I'm so glad I finally read one of his books.
I must admit that the firs half of the book was really slow, I was wondering the whole time why was I reading it.
That's the reason why I'm giving just 3 stars, and I almost gave 4, because then things got really good between the two characters and the ending was great.An important fact is that this book does have a HEA!
I must clarify this because Spark is known for his tragic endings, but this is not the case in this book.I will be definitely buying another of his books soon.

«جرمی مارش» خبرنگار جوان و خوش چهره ی داستان برای ماموریتی به کارولینای جنوبی می رود. حضور او با ماجراهایی همراه است که علاوه بر درگیر شدن، با «لکسی» به عنوان یکی از مطلعین حوادث رخ داده در آن منطقه آشنا می شود. «لکسی» دختر جوان و زیبارویی است که در کنار «جرمی» و کنجکاوی های او به عنوان یک خبرنگار، حوادث جالب و غیر منتظره ای را تجربه می کند و...
I call it my "popcorn for the brain" genre because they are usually fluffy and without substance.
However, this book disappoints - even on the popcorn level.The story was 100% predictable from the beginning so reading it wasn't the least bit exciting.
I know it's supposed to be a romantic book but the so-called "tension" did not come across well in the book.
It just felt like two people being stupid.
Even the actual romantic parts was just two people being stupid.
I read it very quickly, and not because I couldn't put it down, but because it was SO fluffy that there was nothing really to read.
I do enjoy a good ghost story, and I liked the storyline surrounding Jeremy Marsh trying to debunk the town's belief that there are "real" ghosts in their cemetery. But, I found that the storyline surrounding the impending romance between Jeremy and Lexie extremely annoying. Their conversations consisted mainly of irritating banter which I found difficult to believe. I didn't find either of those characters endearing, at least during those segments of the book. I did finish it - I had to find out what was going on in the cemetery, of course!
Took me ages to finish this book.My experience:Never start reading a book with high expectations. Actually never do anything with expectations. Your imagination sets the bar too high to be achieved.Normal storyNormal charactersOrdinary romance
My first exposure to Nicholas Sparks. A very pleasing experience. He kept a gentle mix of mystery, romance, jelousy and intrigue within the context of his story. I found the style to be easy to follow.
Horrible. I had to force myself to finish it. I feel like reading this book robbed me of time I will never get back. I loved The Notebook, but absolutely hated this story.
Ugh. There are so many things wrong with this book, I don't even know where to begin.
(And no man I know is physically capable of "making love all night.") Like most of his other books, this one was completely predictable.
The difference is that the characters in this one were pathetic.
Fake southern drawl (falsetto for Lexie) did not add to my overall impression of this book.
However, I am going to try reading it instead of listening to it to see if it makes any difference.
More appropriately titled: "True Velveeta", this novel oozed cheese from every page. Don't get me wrong, I enjoy a quick, light read of Nicky's work, but he over-cheddar'd this one. "Should I go, should I not, should I, should I not...." The main character painfully analyzes each and every decision he makes, from ordering a latte to chasing after a southern belle. There is a sequel to this one, but barring an unexpected plot twist involving mushrooms and midgets, it may be awhile before I pick it up.
Having been married and divorced before, Jeremy had no intention of looking for love on his trip from New York to North Carolina.
Jeremy spends a lot of time with the librarian, asking her for help and where he might find useful books or diaries that would help him with his research.
In the end, they fall in love, but Jeremy still has to go back to New York.
The book ends with a little miracle, one in which Jeremy was told and convinced would never happen due to biological reasons.
Picked this up at a consignment shop.
I was familiar with some of Sparks' other books which have been adapted into films, but had never read anything by him.This was okay.
To the contrary, we think it's a little creepy.
If only he had stretched the relationship out, I think it might have been more believable and more satisfying.
That said, I purchased the second book in the series at the same consignment shop, and I'll read it at some point.
I'd also read something else by this author when I'm in the mood for sappy and predictable.
This book lost me at the sentence, "he breathed her name like a prayer." That would never happen in real life. And if it did happen it would be creeptastic.
Not my favorite Sparks novel but that ending though!!
Nicholas Sparks is a popular and accomplished author of many love stories, and this book is no exception.
True Believer revolves around the potential love story of two main characters, Lexie Darnell and Jeremy Marsh.
The book takes place over the couple days Jeremy is in town and the two begin to develop interest in one another.
I think this book leaves out how exciting it is to get to know another person when it comes to “falling in love”.
It only takes place in a weekend and does not develop the relationship between Lexie and Jeremy nearly enough.
يسعني القول أن الرواية ممتعة ومكتوبة بإتقان وواقعية، وأنها كمثيلاتها من الروايات المترجمة تعطي فكرة 
U početku je pomalo monotono, ali kasnije, iako predvidljivo, postaje bolje.
Lexie and Jeremy become smitten, but with both possessing strong, stubborn personalities, how can they possibly make a relationship work when their hearts lie in two different places?Romantic in a non-graphic way (no heaving chests or throbbing members or anything like that) with a hint of the supernatural, this book was… an interesting take on chick lit, but decidedly not my thing.
The guy you like lives in a different state.The premise was interesting, and you can tell Sparks is an old pro when it comes to writing: his book opened beautifully, the back stories of the characters were divulged seamlessly, and the writing was eloquent.
She'd been hurt in the past, so she acted like an arse the whole time, sending mixed signals and getting mad when Jeremy, our male lead, couldn't figure out what she wanted.My other issue was the lack of development of some minor, but still important, characters like Rachel and Rodney.
I would like to have known more about them than freaking bad attitude Lexie and pushover Jeremy.The final issue is that everything was wrapped up by a big dramatic display of affection.
Quería leer esta bilogía hasta que descubrí que Nicholas mataba a su personaje principal, Lexie, y encima, tildándola de infiel, mala, mentirosa, y otras perlitas.
Me parece horrible que le hiciera ESO a un personaje como Lexie, que es todo bondad.
Sí, porque los hombres deben ser afortunados y las mujeres deben morirse.
Sí, Nicholas también mata a personajes masculinos, pero haciendo balance, prácticamente son ellas quienes siempre mueren, y el cáncer sobrevuela todas sus novelas.
Con esta bilogía, Nicholas me enfadó muchisimo y renuncié a leer todos los libros suyos que acaben en desgracia.
Estoy hasta las narices que putée a sus personajes.
**2,5 estrelas** Creio que este livro terá sido o que menos gostei do Nicholas Sparks. O resumo promete, mistério, fenómenos estranhos com uma pitada de sobrenatural (quiçá!?) mas quanto a mim foi explorado de forma insípida. A desilusão é ainda maior quando afinal a causa dos supostos fantasmas é do conhecimento de todos menos por parte de quem investiga. A previsibilidade quando confirmada de forma tão evidente torna-se no mínimo, aborrecido. Em comparação com outros que li do mesmo autor, este ficará certamente aquém.
The fact that Jeremy is dating a woman who believes her parents' ghosts have come to her in the cemetery makes the reader anxious to know what he finds, realizing that the answer will greatly impact the relationship that is central to the love story.One aspect of storytelling in which Sparks excels is his ability to create the characters who populate his books.
The brouhaha that the people make over Jeremy's celebrity is very cute, if not humorous.Overall, the plot lines are balanced between the mystery of the cemetery, Jeremy and Lexie's relationship, the aspect of small-town living, and the individual life stories of the two protagonists.
I first read this years ago and chose to re-read it because I am going to read the second book 'At First Sight'.
I'm not giving it a five because I feel some parts of the book dragged on a bit especially the beginning.
I didn't feel a strong connection with the characters and parts of it was slow.But I still thoroughly enjoyed it and am looking forward to reading the second book.
I'm excited to see how they are coping in the second book.The ending gave me chills, just the perfect ending.
Overall a romantic, mysterious and easy to read book.
I have never read a Nicholas Sparks book I didn't love. I wish he'd make all his books into movies. He writes the most beautiful Romance novels I've ever read. Makes a girl have faith real love is out there
4,5
Parece que apenas gosto dos livros mais antigos do escritor, não sei que se passa mas este livro não foi nada o que eu esperava, no mau sentido.O enredo é deveras interessante, tenho de admitir isso, e se houve coisa que gostei foi do tema falado no livro.
Já vamos na 3 estrelas, mas o livro não conseguiu subir muito mais na minha consideração.
O romance entre Lexie e Jeremy era tão previsível não só por ser um livro de Nicholas Sparks, como pelo facto de eles estarem sempre juntos.
Decidi dar 3,5 estrelas devido ao enredo, podia estar muito mais bem desenvolvida claro, mas isso não depende de mim.
In True Believer, by Nicholas Sparks, Jeremy Marsh wants to prove that there are no such things as miracles, but a small town Southern sweetheart, Lexie Darnell, gives him reason to believe otherwise, so he takes a chance, and lets himself see what miracles the world has to offer.
True Believer takes place in the present day, in Boone Creek, North Carolina.
Boone Creek is a town as quiet as a whisper, where few exciting things occur.
Legend says that the blue lights are ghosts, and Jeremy Marsh, an extreme Non-Believer, comes into town to show everyone that the lights are simply a scientific reaction to light, not ghosts.
Although I don't think this is as good as the other Sparks books I read so far (Dear John, A Walk To Remember, and At First Sight), I still think it is pretty decent.Jeremy Marsh is a big-city sceptic who writes for a scientific magazine, uncovering the truth behind psychics, ghosts, and legends.
When she falls in love with Jeremy she becomes closed off because he knows that after he writes his story he will leave back to NYC.This whirl-wind romance is pretty realistic and I love the charater of Doris, which is Lexie's kind-hearted grandmother.
