https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156194.Pricksongs_and_Descants
As Coover says of some of his stories, in retrospect:"...great narratives remain meaningful through time as a language-medium between generations, as a weapon against the fringe-areas of our consciousness, and as a mythic reinforcement of our tenuous grip on reality.
these are the realm of Coover, whose exuberance, relentlessness, inventiveness, comic spirit, is unflushable, and whose tireless endless exhausting books and stories keep coming like a waterfall of perverted warpedness.
Among my personal pleasures, the ‘Seven Exemplary Fictions’ in homage to Cervantes, the stomach-plummeting weirdness of ‘The Elevator,’ the carnival craziness of ‘Romance of the Thin Man and the Fat Lady,’ and the comedy of ‘A Pedestrian Accident.’ The other stories in here were too Cooverian in their oddity, tedious, incoherent, or simply unfunny.
I mean, I don't really know, I just work here.Now, you know those trailers for movie comedies which are hugely amusing with a couple of great jokes and you sprint to the cinema when it comes out and you sit through the thing only to find that the two jokes you saw in the trailer were the only actual jokes in the whole movie and the rest of it was 87 minutes of rising aggravation and insulted intelligence mollified only by smuggled-in licorish allsorts (I'm not paying your prices, you ripoff front of house manager!) - well Robert Coover's book is like that.
Also metawriters are in love with fairy tales and myths and are forever running uninteresting riffs on them like a jazz saxophonist taking some standard like My Favourite Things out for yet another ten minute noodle.

He pronounces it aloud, smiles faintly, sadly, somewhat wearily, then continues his tedious climb, pausing from time to time to stare back down the stairs behind him.When the time arrives for resolution, I will be there.
One day soon the followers of Coover will engage those of Barth tooth and claw.
The scene will remind us of Bangkok and we will wear the shirt of Coover proudly.
Where Barth paints with manic glee about Story, Coover recycles his own variations, distilling a Gestalt where the dross whispers of all outcomes and the reader's imagination trembles in capacity.
Coover Rules!
Pricksongs & Descants is mostly about the power of human imagination…“That sweep odour that girls have. The softness of her blouse. He catches a glimpse of the gentle shadows amid her thighs, as she curls her legs up under her.”Imagination is rich but it plays dirty... And that’s a reason so many prefer to live an imaginary life in a realm where everyone can be a king.“He loves her. She loves him. And then the babies come. And dirty nappies and one goddamn meal after another. Dishes. Noise. Clutter. And fat...”That’s the real life. Who wants it?
Holy shit! This is some crazy something. All the edgy writers that young folk like us like? They don't have shit on this guy. Seriously, my reviews are just utterly devolving. At any rate...literally every fundamental aspect of fiction is toyed with in here: characterization, timeline, voice, perspective. The overall effect is one of complete disorientation, but it's the hardest my brain has had to work to read a book in a long while, and that (to me) is valuable as hell.
Anywho…as hard as it is for me to bring myself to do so, there are some things I ought to say.Namely, I’m talking about your prick(songs).
It had been so long since I’d even thought about your prick(songs) that the idea of revisiting it, well, you know, just seemed kinda fun.
Like I said, it’s me and not you.You know how much I love you and Bruney and Burny, Bob— it’s just that your prick(songs) didn’t feel right this time.
Thing is, I kinda got a line on this Latin fella name a Borges right now.
Go straight to some of the favorites, like "The Babysitter." The characters and the setting: a father, his wife, their three young children one of whom is just a baby.
Just outside, however, is her boyfriend and his pal waiting for the couple to leave.While at the party the father of the kids thinks of a good excuse to leave it so he can drop by their house and maybe surprise the babysitter naked in their bathtub.
That's much better.Imagine parallel universes of different events and outcomes but with the same characters and situation.
In fact, if I was just going to rate the book on innovation it would get 4.5 stars.
My favorite stories were: Quenby and Ola, Swede and Carl; a Pedestrian Accident; the show stopping The Babysitter and the retelling of the story of Noah.The retelling of Noah is shocking and tragic while providing a glimpse of the biting edge we see later in The Public Burning.
Coover uses the storytelling style on four or five pieces in this collection, but it reaches its high point in The Babysitter.
Coover, wearing a top hat, drives down the street in a hummer, windows rolled down.
horror stories!" He's doing 50 in a 35 zone, but he's bored by that, so he floors it and swerves back and forth across the street, pancaking other cars and busting up parking meters; a trail of coins flies in his wake, which pedestrians scoop up.
Just make sure to wear a seatbelt at all times, because you could always fly out of Coover's hummer and crack your head open on the concrete.

It's rare to find a short story collection where every story hits a high note for me, but Coover's done it. Each one is a fabulist gem set in a terrifyingly recognizable world.I get the feeling that not too many people read Coover anymore, which is a crying shame. After I plowed through Vonnegut as a teenager, I made the next logical step to Pynchon and Barth, and from there discovered the whole wide world of postmodernist fiction, including Coover. I'm buying my 17 year old brother a copy of this one.
I can't say I spent too much time thinking about the symbolism behind the stories but I just enjoyed the process of reading because Coover challenges this process at every twist and turn.
I liked the experimental nature of the stories and how he deconstructed what we normally view as fiction or fairy tales.
What made this book special to me was the way that Coover played around with genre and narrative structure, deconstructing the very stories that form the fabric of our own societal mythology.It was unlike anything I've read on the 1001 list and I quite enjoyed it.
Let me just go ahead and stop and say, if you’re struggling to keep up your interest in the book, I’d advise you just go ahead and skip to the end and read the last two stories, which are by far the stand out works in the collection.
They remain strong, fresh, and effective even now.It’s probably not a surprising comparison, but this reminded me a great deal of Lost in the Funhouse, though Barth is considerably freer in letting the absurdity and experimentation run wild, and, as such, this work pales a bit in comparison.
I decided to change my habits and read all short story collections straight through, rather than picking at them from time to time.
I was prompted to make this decision after tearing through all of George Saunders' work in a week (much the way I did when they made The Wire available on-demand).
Going cover-to-cover on this book has broken me of any desire to continue that method of reading.
One story in particular, The Sentient Lens, leapt out at me as a commentary on Robbe-Grillet.
His "For a New Novel" share the manifesto-like quality of Coover's work.
It was the first Coover I'd read and I figured I'd start with the short stories in order to hopefully see the kind of widest range of experimentation.
Coover has a kind of interest in these non-linnear games that seemed related to his work in electronic literature and his Universal Baseball Assoc.
What I think works less well in here is some of the adaptations of fairy tales, which at the time was probably fairly innovative but now just feels played out, including in Coover's own work he seems to have flogged it like a dead horse.
An understanding reviewer might say experiments are necessary and that some are bound to go wrong. But in this case, the draft ought to have been buried in RC's file cabinet.
Maybe it would be engaging if read while drunk, but this format is like that fantasy you develop in your head, only, you are distracted by multiple other threads of thought, and you come back and try to develop your fantasy from where you started, but get distracted again. In the end, you find yourself with an unsatisfactory ending because you were so distracted. Since I already do something like this every day, I think I will pass on these stories.
3 .5 stars.The Babysitter is the highlight here.
These postmodern surrealist short stories seem very typical of the late 60s (when the collection was released) but I'll have to read some of Coover's subsequent 15 novellas and novels, not to mention many more short stories, before making any further generalizations.I tend to compare writing like this to Donald Barthelme, solely because that's who I discovered first in this realm.
Coover makes frequent use of myths and fairy tales as templates.
There's a bit of an undertone of menace as someone has often just jumped off a building, been hit by a truck, or been sexually threatened.
4.5/5In Pricksongs and Descants, Robert Coover messes around with storytelling.
His style of postmodernism, which, in several of the stories, involves the retelling of biblical and fairy tales, is smart and playful—as opposed to one of his contemporaries, John Barth, who, in Lost in the Funhouse and Chimera can come across as obvious, self-congratulatory, and obnoxious.
Coover wants you to know what he's up to, but his prose and humor are so vibrant and engaging that the art of storytelling never trumps the storytelling itself.
One of the best story collection in US literature:The Door: A Prologue of Sorts 4*The Magic Poker 5*Morris in Chains 5*The Gingerbread House 4*Seven Exemplary Fictions 5*Dedicatoria y Prólogo a don Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra 3*1 Panel Game 5*2 The Marker 4*3 The Brother 5*4 In a Train Station 4*5 Klee Dead 3*6 J’s Marriage 5*7 The Wayfarer 3*The Elevator 4*Romance of the Thin Man and the Fat Lady 4*Quenby and Ola, Swede and Carl 3*The Sentient Lens 5*1 Scene for ‘Winter’ 4*2 The Milkmaid of Samaniego 4*3 The Leper’s Helix 5*A Pedestrian Accident 3*The Babysitter 5*The Hat Act 4*
Menuda lectura. Estos cuentos dejan poso, escenas que van a permanecer en mi memoria sin ninguna duda durante mucho tiempo y que me costará discernir si las vi en el cine o si fui yo quien las soñó. Además de la estructura, la manera de contar, esas narraciones laberínticas i reiterativas, como si estuvieras en mitad de una pesadilla, son de una extraordinaria originalidad teniendo en cuenta que se publicaron en 1969. Muy recomendable.
Every aspect of this metafiction is manipulated resulting in a cognitive dissonance that makes my brain ache. Or perhaps I just don't get it. 'The babysitter' was worth reading though.
A must read. He is an amazing writer.
Вигадливо. Цікаві сюжети, незвичний стиль.Забагато жорстокості і збочень, як на мій смак. Та все одно, дуже добра книжка.
1 star for form and style.
Enjoyed the Babysitter, which probably deserves more stars, but to be honest some of the other stories in the collection just seem to be padding.
La originalidad de sus relatos me recordó por momentos a mi admirado Thomas Ligotti.
Uno no sabe qué esperar cuando se dispone a comenzar una de sus historias.
Retuerce la realidad y construye otra totalmente fascinante e hipnótica.
A veces pienso que este tipo de escritores nos hacen caer en una farsa totalmente distante del mundo real y cotidiano, cual magos baratos y con poca dignidad para enfrentar los hechos con la lógica cruda que se presentan en la vida real.
Perdón por la autoreferencia (si alguien alguna vez llega a leer esta reseña).
Un gran libro de historias cortas.
