https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/403124.The_Washing_of_the_Spears
I mean, these were the days when an adolescent boy, failing to get his hands on Playboy, often settled for National Geographic...Or so I'm told).The Washing of the Spears was the first book I read about the Zulu Nation.
Combine the colonial stories of Kipling with the chases and escapes of James Fenimore Cooper and the massive battles of Tolstoy and you have the Zulu War. The annals of warfare ring with the names of the British-Zulu battles, though I feel safe in assuming most people have never heard of these places, these epics of life and death.
I have a 1965 copy of this great book and I don't think that there has been a better account of the rise & fall of the Zulu nation.
This is one of the best accounts of how the Zulu nation become one of the most feared in Africa under Shaka and how it fell to ruin under Cetshwayo during the war with England in 1879.
This book has been the standard that all others have been compared to since its publication.
It's one of my all time favourite books and I have no hesitation in recommending it to anyone who has a love for this period or a passion for history.
Morris was an American naval officer in the 40s and a CIA agent when he wrote this work of immense quality and deep scholarship.
Furthermore, while Morris started out writing just about the Anglo-Zulu War, he quickly realized that he could not tell the story without tracing the history all the way back to the foundation of the Zulu nation.
Of course, the unlikely creation of the Zulu nation by Shaka Zulu is a legendary tale and I enjoyed every page that Morris devoted to it.
Of course, you will probably want to pick up Pakenham's Boer War to get the end of the story.
If you ever saw the 1964 film "Zulu" (with a very young Michael Caine) you'll remember the siege of Rorke's Drift--- a great set-piece of cinema.
And a grand depiction of a battle.
I saw the film long ago, and then sought out books on the Zulu Wars.
"The Washing of the Spears", forty-odd years since it first appeared, is very much a classic.
It's old-school writing: blood-and-thunder, individual bravery, grand scenes.
And surprisingly sensitive and sympathetic to the Zulu, while still understanding the bloody nature of leadership and politics inside the tribal kingdoms of South Africa.
See the film, read "Washing of the Spears"--- do both.
(The book was written 50 years ago so there may well be more current information on these issues.)The Dutch settlers that came to be known as Boers were in southern Africa for over two-hundred years before the Zulu war with the British Imperial army and its colonial and native allies.
At Isandlwana, the British army suffered its worst defeat at the hands of a native force.
Louis ended up serving in the British army in the Zulu War, and dying alone at the hands of a small band of Zulus.
Read earlier edition in the late 80s after visiting parents in Gaborone in 1983. The Zulu history written in James Mitchener's The Covenant and this book match, as well as the incident depicted in the films Zulu (http://tinyurl.com/h7o6b) and Zulu Dawn (http://qurl.com/mw8zn). It is rare that a historical event/period is portrayed so accurately in two books AND two movies. I recommend both books and films if anyone is interested in the Zulu wars. The television film Shaka Zulu> (http://qurl.com/ny1kz) is another great source.
If you only read one chapter of this book, make sure it's the one about the defense of Rorke's Drift. Awesome. then watch the movie Zulu.
There are parts of this that are really good (although it is certainly not up to the same standard as other non-fiction war books I've read such as 'Nam' or 'We Were Soldiers Once and Young') but I don't think there were enough really interesting bits to make up for the fact that the main part of this (the section after Shaka but before the battles of Isandhlwana and Rorke's Drift in particular as that caused the four month hiatus) that are just far too dense.
Morris pulls no punches, in addressing either the Zulus or the British, and this equal opportunity critical analysis makes this a very impressive read.Covering the history of Natal and the Zulu nation from the 17th century until the end of the 19th century, this book is an exhaustive yet very engaging chronicle of a war started deliberately by the British, fought bravely by both sides, and ultimately leading to the destruction of the greatest military power ever seen in sub-Saharan Africa.What truly impressed me was the amount of time Morris spent addressing the history of the Zulu people, especially the rise and fall of Shaka in the early 19th century.
There is, for instance, once you get to the core conflict recounted in the book, no hint of Zulu agency.
They die in droves, without thinking much about it.So don't go to this book to find out what the Zulus are trying to do.
Right down to how many screws there were holding down the lid of a box of cartridges, and the shortage of screwdrivers at Isandlwana.Personal takeaway: as someone trying to make sense of the Dakota War of the 1860s, I realized that no historian ever has analyzed this North American conflict with the approach of Morris.
:DWhile this book took me quite some time to read (because of the enormous length--614 pages--and because of Election Day interruptions) I enjoyed the book.At the same time it was quite a chore to read.
The only reason that the book seemed to make sense to me was because I took a class on the history of Africa and watched a video of the battle that took nearly three hundred pages to recount...
or at least I think it took that length.I found myself confused as the chapters progressed and Morris sort of backtracked when he switched to a new chapter to tell about another flank or division of the British army.
This was an excellent book. It is divided into two parts, as mentioned in the title. The first part starts slow and is meticulously researched and details the history and evolution of the Zulu empire and the tribal politics associated with the successors to Shaka. The book picks up with the depiction of the Zulu War and the movements in each battle are thoroughly detailed and explained. I really enjoyed it, particularly the chapter on Rorke's Drift
I always love it when history books are page turners. Morris tells the entire story of the Zulus, from their unification under Shaka to the British invasion and finally their fall under Dinuzulu. Isandlwana and Roarke's Drift are covered in detail as is the entire campaign leading up to the Battle of Ulundi.
An incrediably detailed and well researched account of the rise and fall of the Zulu Empire. Many chapters, especially the opening of the 1879 War where Morris focuses on individuals and narrates events from their perspective read like an adventure novel from the Victorian era. For me this book brought this period of history to life and I found the book a page turner.
you really cannot put this book down if this subject interests you at all. Read before the Boer War.Sheds light on British history of oppression among "more ignorant" peoples of the world. The Zulu nation proves it's metal and is not defeated because of it's lack of command, tactics or bravery.
Excellent overview of a crucial period in South African history.
I think I read the Shaka part of this in the 2000's.
I'm not much for historical pieces but this book came highly recommended to me by someone quite special.
So I went out of my comfort zone and instead of reading for pleasure, I read for basic knowledge.
I don't regret that decision; however, I probably will stick with what I like best.
With that being said, I did learn a lot.
It's not that I was ignorant to other cultures and societies, but I will say I was naïve.
It's a tough read.
But if you have any desire to learn about this history, you will learn a lot from this book.
A well researched and well written work that holds up even after all these years.
The war is covered well although at times (particularly the section dealing with the Prince Imperial) does have a touch of "Boys Own Adventure" prose.
Rorkes Drift is covered well as are a few of the lesser known battles but the conclusion of the war seems rushed.
One significant failing in my view is the paucity of maps.
There is a good diagram of Rorkes Drift but the other battles get minimal cartographic assistance and a general map of the area (to put locations in context) would be helpful.
Read this book years ago and probably like a lot of readers it was as a result of seeing Zulu for the umpteenth time and wanting to find out more.With the benefit of many years since I did read it though, I do look back with slightly less than rose tinted spectacles...no reference to sources in my addition which is a worry.
And having read a lot about the subject and visited Rorkes Drift and Isandhwana on more than one occasion I get the feeling and I'm pretty sure that some of Donald's anecdotes are like some of the tour guides that work these areas, prone to, shall we say a little artistic license.
The best book I have ever read on colonial warfare in Africa and good draft of South African history.
A really detailed book written by a former CIA officer who takes the time to for example describe theological churches in protestant churches in South Africa during the mid-19th century.
One of my all time favorites and one of a handful of books I took with me to Malawi for my Fulbright grant.
I sat in on my desk and would discuss the book with my Ngoni (more of less closely related to the Zulu) colleagues.

As one begins reading this book, it becomes obvious that the author doesn't like the Portuguese...
if the Portuguese where so incompetent seamen and so ignorant of African ethnicity as he claims, how come they were the first Europeans to settle in Africa and the last ones to leave?Keep in mind that when this book was written, in the 1960's, the Portuguese, unlike the British, were steadfast in Africa and not thinking of leaving.
In 1879, armed only with their spears, their rawhide shields, and their incredible courage, the Zulus challenged the might of Victorian England and, initially, inflicted on the British the worst defeat a modern army has ever suffered at the hands of men without guns.
The story is studded with tales of drama and heroism: the Battle of Isandhlwana, where the Zulu army wiped out the major British column; and Rorke's Drift, where a handful of British troops beat off thousands of Zulu warriors and won eleven Victoria Crosses.
Despite the title this book is more a panoramic history of South Africa up to 1879, focusing on the Zulus, Boers and British about equally.
Morris provides incredibly vivid vignettes of his protagonists: Shaka, Cesthawayo, Colonel Durnford, Lord Chelmsford, France's Prince Imperial, etc.
His digressive style allows for fascinating detours: discussion of Bishop Colenso, for instance, leads to a discourse on the Anglican Church's Oxford Movement, while Garnet Wolseley's entrance provides analysis of British Army reform.
There's also a short but fascinating chapter on Zulu orthography.
Much of the content is dated or details incorrect, inevitable in a 48 year old book.
Two hostile tribes collide in southern Africa.
Young warriors could not enter into true manhood until they had washed their spears having killed in battle.
Zulu armies could cover vast distances, running in formation as much as 50 miles to a battle, ready to fight.
However despite their valor, discipline, and leadership, the outcome was never in doubt for one of the tribes was equipped with spears while the other had rapid firing rifles and artillery.
Before the destruction of the Zulus, they did wipe out a British army,one of the last times that this would ever happen given the disparity in technology.
Wow. This is the only book you'll ever need on the rise and fall of the Zulu nation.
Incredibly well researched and a very in depth review of both sides of the conflict, the events leading up to the clash of two civilizations, and the aftermath.
So much focus on the bit players will occasionally make you feel like your missing the forest for the trees, but knowing each character so well really helps immerse you in this story.
The story isn't told from just one side.
When Morris has access to Zulu sources he uses them and gives you the story from both points of view when available.
This is a well written and researched history of the Zulu Nation. I found it completely engrossing and difficult to put down.
This book was up and down for me.
I will say that I learned a lot.
Shaka Zulu was not at all the person I thought him to be.
I thought he was a hero of sorts...
But there was a lot of subject matter I just had no interest in.
If I cut about 150 pages (it's 600+ pages of actual text) outta the book, I would have enjoyed it more.
But I can see how others would really enjoy this book.
To me, some books you read and think "how could someone NOT like this?"....
The Washing of the Spears is a dense, deliberate read, so if you plan to read this book, schedule it well in advance.
It took me about 3 months to read The Washing of the Spears - every day 40 or 60 pages at a time, with an atlas of the continent in hand.
The tribal cultures of African peoples, the inevitable conflict among native peoples for scarce resources and then between native peoples and colonials, the unstopable progression of colonialism throughout South Africa was hypnotic.
It has informed my reading of contemporary African crime fiction and my understanding of current events and politics.
