https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56353.I_Elizabeth
Now: although the character of Elizabeth was so believable, the content of the novel itself is what ultimately made me struggle through most of the story.
On one hand, the prose is decent because it has an archaic air to it, allowing the reader to feel as if they truly are living in the time of Elizabeth.
In time, Miles prose becomes overly wordy, even choking, and it takes away from the story itself.
As I mentioned before, the earlier parts of the novel are a bit more concerned with Elizabeth's position before becoming queen, including the obstacles she faced following the death of her father, and that is what I enjoyed most.
You're telling me that Elizabeth I spent her life behaving like the lead in a bad Theda Bara film?Miles also never gives any sense of place or time.
The problem with this is that Elizabeth is 30 years old on one page, and just a few pages later she's about to hit 40 (and has apparently been about to hit 40 for pages and pages).
And since she always behaves like a spoiled 15-year-old throwing a tantrum, there's no character development to give the reader insight into the fact that she's aging.The basic plot is fine - but it's actually Elizabeth's life, so no points there.
Rosaline Miles writes in the first person, so we are reading this account of the life of probably the most powerful woman in history as she might well have written it.
Her rallying speech to the fleet at the time of the Spanish Armada, for example: (paraphrased)'I may have the body of a weak and feeble woman but I have the heart and stomach of a king, and a King of England too...' Weak?
I first read this book in the United States, after a wonderful few hours in Borders.
I left the book with my American friends.
As a fan of the historical figure and popular interpretations of Elizabeth I, I tend to read anything I can get my hands on dealing with this fascinating part of world history.
It was a fascinating read though; I believe this is the book that the first Elizabeth movie starring Cate Blanchett was based off of....although it is interesting to note how that movie veers from historical record in that Sir Robert Dudley ends up ostracized when that is in no way what happened.
Anyways, a great read about one of the most powerful woman ever in world history.
I thought this book would never end! How is it that the author turned the great Queen Elizabeth into a whiny, simpering, love-sick fool?!?
Historical fictional buffs are quite used to the endless supply of Elizabeth Tudor books with beautifully decorated covers.
I would suggest I, Elizabeth for those not as familiar with the Tudors, as Miles gives a great introductory course into Elizabeth’s life and reign.
Even the notes are helpful: the family tree charts are much clearer than that of most books (although it only states death dates versus birth), and the alphabetical glossary of well-known figures during the Tudor times (explaining their relations) would make a great leaflet for those who have to look up the characters while reading.
While it's easy to remember characters like William and Robert Cecil, Walsingham, Robin Dudley, and Robert of Essex, the other various characters (mostly Elizabeth's Howard-Boleyn relations) seemed to run together, and it was hard to get a good grip on them.I admit that I was also a bit skeptical about the part of Elizabeth's relationship with Robin where they ended up sleeping together with the intention of getting married.
I positively LOVE this book! Despite its size, I have read it several times, never tiring of the story. This is written as an autobiography and seeing things told from Elizabeth's viewpoint is amazing. It covers her entire life, from when she was about 4 years old up until about 2 years before her death in 1603. Miles does a wonderful job of getting her "voice" just right. It really shows the struggles she dealt with, publicly and privately. It really shows the sacrifices she (maybe) made to keep her kingdom safe and strong.
I've slowly been picking up more & more books revolving around this time period, and I think this is definitely one of the better ones.
There were times I rooted for her, but she wasn't always entirely likeable...and I liked that.
I really liked Miles' style of writing, as well.
I will admit, the last 1/4 of the book really slowed down for me, but not enough to make me want to quit.
For any one interested in this time period, I highly recommend picking this one up!
I've been wanting a novel that embraced all sides of this Woman and Queen, and I'm glad I picked this one to read.
I've read other books that show Elizabeth I as a vain jealous woman, and her character really didn't develop much past that.
This book however, doesn't fail to express all aspects of her person.
Yes, she was vain AND jealous.
But she was also intelligent, strong, passionate, witty, and loving.
And now to compliment the book itself: I loved it.
I feel like after reading this I know Elizabeth I.
I'm looking forward to reading Rosalind Miles other novels.
This was a pretty decent read. I found the beginning to be better than the end as I started to tire of the endless struggles of her rule. I also thought her obsession with the much younger man was a little wierd. It was a much more historical and detailed account than you get with the Philippa Gregory novels, but less of a page-turner at the same time.
You have written a most excellent novel about my favorite monarch, Queen Elizabeth I, and gave me hours of reading ecstasy that I will never forget!
I, Elizabeth is a fantastic read of the life, loves, trials and tribulations of Queen Elizabeth I, "The Virgin Queen".
Miles does a great job at putting you right there with her through it all...the good, the bad and the ugly!The novel is broken down into 5 parts...Bastard, Virgin, Queen, Bellona and Gloriana, the five phases in Elizabeth's life.
I felt her joys and her fears, and I really, really kept on hoping she would finally find the love she desperately sought, even though I knew the ending of the story...She sacrificed herself for the love of her country.
I liked the fact that Elizabeth's faults were shown--she was often too forgiving, and she let men wound her over and over again, yet she was so love-sick that she kept asking for more.
I liked the fact that Miles didn't write her as a woman who was perfection itself, because Elizabeth wasn't.
Her exploits are legendary, but once one knows and understands her motivations, the spectacular nature of her victories becomes even more clear.Countless biographies have been written about Elizabeth I, and I have read many of them.
This version, by Rosalind Miles, contains all the requisite historical facts and figures, but presents them in a creative new delivery; from the mouth of the Queen herself.
It is an excellent book; it will lay bare some of the mysteries of the time, beginning before Elizabeth I was born, effectively establishing the source of many of the Queen's motives and anxieties.
I got so frustrated at this book when I was reading pages in the 400's or so.
It is so historically inaccurate that I had to stop.
For other novels you don't expect the level of accuaracy that you do of this book because it is supposed to be written from the perspective of Elizabeth herself.
I overlooked a lot of inaccuracies but the way that Miles choses to portray Mary Queen of Scots execution is completely inaccurate.
I'm sure it's a good story if you don't know the history behind it.
She is a good writer and I have read other books of hers that are better than this.

I believe this was the first Historical Fiction book I had read that really sparked my interest in this genre. Before this book I mostly read classics, romance, mystery, Christian Fiction and religious books. This is also the first book that intriqued me about the Tudors. Queen Elizabeth is one of the women I admire throughout history. This is one of my favorite books. I've read this twice and own a copy. I enjoyed this even more the second time I read it.
Pretty accurate, from what I can tell, historical fiction. Most of the other stuff seems to me at least plausible, given what we know.The portrayal of Mary Queen of Scots is fairly negative, but this is written from the perspective of Elizabeth I, hence I don't have a problem with it. (And I don't find the "notorious bad picker" a sympathetic, romantic figure to begin with.)
I don't know how much of this book was actually the product of research by the author, or her imagination, but it was a decently good book. It was a very intimate insight into the life of the first Elizabeth.
My the time I got to the last fifty or so pages I was skimming rather than reading it because I didn't care as much about her anymore.
At the same time though I discovered things and characters that I didn't know much about so, ups and downs I guessOverall I did enjoy it, but I think the last hundred pages should probably have been at least 50% shorter than they actaully were, then it might not have seemed like such a slow and whiney ending to such a spectacular life.
But since I last read it (for probably the tenth time at least, the binding was busted then, too) six years ago, I couldn't remember any of the cadences or even half of the plot, so I decided it counted as really reading it this year.
Elizabeth's voice is the greatest asset of this book.But also wonderful is the plot.
It's amazing how Miles was able to weave together all the events of Elizabeth's life, make a common person underneath while so much changed over time.
This is Elizabeth I, remember, one of the most powerful and intelligent monarchs ever to have lived, and she proved her male advisers completely WRONG about her "womanly weakness", but in Rosalind Miles's version she takes the sixteenth century version of feminine frailty to new levels.Second: Why all the paragraphs in italics?
TERRIBLE.
After that, I couldn't read any more.So much for Rosalind Miles.
If you haven't read Margaret Irwin's trilogy on Elizabeth, you'd be much better off with them.
This is honestly not worth the time.NOTE: I read about 2/3 of this before I put it down.
I've read many books of both fiction and non-fiction about Elizabeth I, and I can't say this one added anything to my understanding of the woman or proposed any new ways of looking at her life.
I think the author thought she was adding the perspective of Elizabeth spending her life trying to get approval from men like her father (her main crushes are conveniently red haired and focused on the physical), but there's nothing new in that hypothesis, and is tough to believe since even early on her father has so little presence in the book.
I was anticipating a great historical fiction approach to Queen Elizabeth as the author has many acclaimed novels.
I did enjoy the writing but I thought her approach to Elizabeth was crude and frustrating.
The author spent the whole novel, (600 plus pages) with Elizabeth agonizing over her sexual vulnerability and frustration.
I felt the novel got worse as Robert dies and she moves her affections to the Earl of Essex (which does happen historically speaking) but I believe the portrayal to be very lewd.
On a less critical note, the several characters surrounding Elizabeth, namely the Cecil's, I felt were dramatized well and in a way which made me want to read more of them.
it's an extremely long book...and the author, i think purposefully, portrays the "human" side of Elizabeth as a bit of a weak woman at times.
i'm no historical buff, or anything, but i just don't like Elizabeth being portrayed as a lovesick fluffy woman.
it turned me off a bit.also...there are so many people in the book to keep track of.
i found myself flipping to the back of the book (where the author has an "index of characters") constantly, to keep track of everyone.
so eventually, i stopped flipping to the back and just read.this is one of the first historical fiction books that i've read.
This book a novel but I think it doesn't stray too far from the truth of Queen Elizabeth I's life (as far as what I personally know about her).
Miles does a good job of writing the struggles of what the first female queen would have went through -- men doubting her, her love life and the pressures of getting married and killing the Mary Queen of Scots.
It's written in a first hand account of her life and lets the reader get into Elizabeth's psyche.
Great read!
Only problem is that because it's packed full of names and all their various titles and political positions the reading can be slow at times.
i love historical fiction, particularly anything about the tudors.
i can also appreciate any attempt to write from a particular historical figures point of view.
and this portrayal of Elizabeth was quite different than others I have encountered - no one author will capture everything about any one historical person so I can work with the differences presented by each author to create 'my own Elizabeth'.
with that said, this was way too long.
i felt that many themes were so overly used and abused (i.e., her pent up lust) that it started to bore me the last 100 to 150 pages.
The first third was pretty good, but then Elizabeth is portrayed as a whiny bitch. Didn't work for me.
I read this several years ago. I know that I really enjoyed the voice the author gave to Elizabeth. It is worth a re-read.
This might have been a good book if it was about 250 pages shorter.
