https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89763.Esperanza_Rising
I just finished this book with my class today...couldn't read that last sentence because I cried...the kids cried too. That hasn't happened to me before with a read aloud...great story.
I read and lesson planned this book when I student taught Spanish I to 7th and 8th graders. Any review I write will not do the book justice because it's been a long time and deserving of a reread. Definitely a great learning tool and Hispanic historical novel to read to middle school students.
English 425 Submitter’s name _Whitney Price____ Book Bank Book Bank subject: __Group 3_Book_Reference information: Title Esperanza RisingAuthor Pam Munoz RyanPublisher Scholastic Press Year 2000# of pages 253 Genre FictionReading level Interest level 13-15Potential hot lava:racismGeneral response/reaction:My first response to this book was that I wanted it to be longer. I wanted to read more about the relationships Ezperanza makes and to see if anything evolves between her and Miguel. I really e
A good way to introduce this book could be during a social studies lesson about the Mexican culture or about how Hispanics come to the United States and how hard they work for a living.Subjects, Themes, and Big Ideas:Family is a huge theme in this story.
She grew up as a very rich girl in Mexico, then after the death of her father, she is forced to move to the United States and live as a poor girl.
They run away to Mexico with the help of their friends, but Esperanza is afraid she will not be able to adjust to the life style of being poor and does not know how she will live without her Abuelita.
I adored Esperanza, her family, and their story. <3
An inspiring story of struggle, hardship, and hope, Esperanza Rising gave me and my children much to discuss.
This is a great work of historical fiction for children based on the life of the author's grandmother.Esperanza, the daughter of a wealthy landowner, and her mother must leave their home in Mexico and start over as farm workers in California after the death of her father.
Set in the early 1930's, this book gives you a feel for the struggles of the Great Depression as well as California History .
It's a sweet book about hard work, love, and hope.
A wonderful story. I listened to the audiobook but I want to read it again with a paper copy at some point.
Though Esperanza comes from a privileged background, she and her mother are forced to flee Mexico after her father dies. She must work as a farm laborer (despite her upbringing and education) in southern California during the Great Depression. The characterization is lovely; they are well rounded with realistic concerns and struggles. This novel illuminates the unique plight of Mexican-American laborers during the Great Depression, including forced deportation, labor strikes, competition from the Dust Bowl "Okies," profound discrimination, and horrific living conditions. Marvelous historical fiction![Booktalk this!: 10-14 year old girls.]
It covers very difficult issues of race, class difference, child labor and death with tact and a certain amount of gentleness.But overall after I was finished I could not help but be faced with the difficult feeling that Esparanza, while being an incredibly strong young woman and a good role model in that sense, often overlooks the immorality and unfairness of her situation in order to continue living and doing what she has to do.
This is a terrible situation for a child to be in, but the close of the book lauds Esparanza for the great, strong person that she has become for her hard work.
I love the angles of perspective, the rich culture and largely ignored history of the Mexican repatriation, that the author explores.
It's even better to learn that the author based the story largely on very true events of her grandmother's time.
I really like that she started as a pretty ignorant, hot-tempered and slightly spoiled child, so we can see that the Mexicans don't all suffer and have tragic pasts, they also have wonderful memories of comfort (not luxury but happy times).
The Spanish in the book didn't hurt at all too, helped me to learn a bit more.
You must be patient, Esperanza."Esperanza Rising is my 2nd book of Pam Muñoz Ryan.
Esperanza Rising has been a wonderful read.
One of the first thoughts I had, after finishing the book, was that, this book should have been slightly more longer.Did you know if you lie down on the ground and stay very still, you can feel the Earth's heart beating?This book is the story of Esperanza Ortega, whose life changes from a Fairytale existence to one filled with hardships and difficulties.
It is about the changing attitudes of Esperanza and her understanding of Life.
I was so scared that Esperanza would lose her too, and quite honestly I would have been a wreck if that would have happened.Pam Munoz Ryan does such an excellent job of painting the setting in your mind and in developing each of the characters.
At the beginning of the book Esperanza was a little girl and in only a few short months she developed and matured into a woman.
I was thrilled to read the author's note to discover that in real life Esperanza and "Miguel" married.
This book was wonderful! I started reading it a while ago, but stopped because I thought it was too sad. (I was at the part about the papayas) I just picked it up again and couldn't put it down! This was, by far, one of the best books I've ever read!
I really enjoyed this story about young Esperanza, whose life is turned upside down after her father's death. Going from a privileged, comfortable life in Mexico on her father's ranch, or a difficult, hard life in California, Esperanza starts out naive and entitled, but undergoes tremendous growth and strength of character by the end of this novel. Plus, I got to learn a little about Mexican workers in California around the Depression: the racism they encountered, their efforts to gain better rights, and forced deportations by the Californian government in response to these workers attempts to organize.
I wanted to like this book, but I struggled with liking the characters.
Murdered father, greedy and mean uncles wanting to marry mom and send child away, illegal immigration, mom in hospital, boy she likes but talks down to, strike and work unfairness, dust storms, Oakies coming to take their jobs, racism, etc - not one of which was addressed adequately.
I felt like this story was all over the place.This seemed like a watered-down, rose-colored glasses Grapes of Wrath.
They now have a new mouth to feed and limited jobs, but everything will be okay?
This book is GREAT! I read it with school and at first to be honest I hated it! Esperanza was annoying and snobby! But in the end she was a really like able person!
I’m well aware of the privileges I hold simply by accident of birth.
And I’m also aware that a turn of circumstance, like devastating illness or unemployment, could suddenly take away many of the comforts I take for granted.Esperanza is an adolescent girl who suddenly has to face a future where all the things in her life are suddenly taken away from her.
It’s the story of her new perspective, her new path forward.It’s also a story of immigration, of racism, of classism, of family.
A really great book on so many levels. There are so many connections you can make with kids while reading 'Esperanza,' but learning about the Great Depression, and Mexico, and farm workers, and how fruits and vegetables get to our tables, and California geography, are all side benefits to this Cinderella-in-reverse story that still ends up happily. It's a classic, and should be in every collection of children's books. Highly recommended.
Esperanza has to unfortunately face losing everything and toiling away for net to nothing during the Great Depression, but throughout the book, her story is told with vibrancy and honesty, recalling her beloved Mexico home despite living in the grit and determination of an uncertain era.
That starting over is not always bad, bad things may happen but we somehow manage to survive.
There are so many teachable moments that can be made with kids while reading Esperanza Rising.
When I think about books that deal with Mexico and Mexican American history (and a little with how Spaniards came to Mexico) this is the only book that ever comes to my mind.
Can't recommend this book highly enough.I didn't think this book could be made better by it being an audiobook but I was absolutely wrong.
Trini Alvarado did an amazing job narrating both males and females and giving feel to the story.
I'll definitely be looking for more audiobooks that she narrates.
3.5... It was a sweet story of hope and dignity. A girl and her mother go to CA from Mex due to tragic life changing events. Born with land and money she has to abandon it all to start a new life in poverty, living in farm camps where the work is hard and there is a constant fear of getting deported for striking whether one has citizenship or not. Fast, easy read for an adult. 4th grade plus book.
A very inspirational story about the author's family and how they came to the United States to work in the early 1920's in central California.
This is really heart-warming.
I loved the Grandma she is so cool, passing down her knowledge to Esperanza and later on to Isabel.
I loved the story and being Spanish speaking I enjoyed the Spanish parts but was also glad that the author translated it for people that do not speak Spanish so it's easy to read and understand and not miss anything.
I loved how hard Esperanza worked for those she loved, and those babies they sound so cute!
I'm glad she gave Isabel the doll, the doll needed a girl that would love it and play with it.
De mult nu am mai găsit într-un roman atâta candoare, dragoste și optimism!
M-a făcut să-mi fie dor de vremea când mergeam cu bunicii și părinții la câmp.
Mâncam la prânz ouă fierte dimineața și ținute sub pom, la umbră, până atunci, iar sarea era într-un flacon de medicamente, normal.
Dacă vă e dor de bunici, dacă ați pierdut pe cineva, dacă viața v-a obligat să vă maturizați prea devreme, dacă doar vreți să aflați o poveste înduioșătoare, atunci asta e cartea potrivită.
,,Omul avut când sărăcește devine mai bogat decât săracul care ajunge să cunoască bogăția.'' (proverb mexican)Recenzia aici: http://sandradeaconu.blogspot.com/201...
I listened to this as an audible book. What a beautiful voice narrator Trini Alvarado has! Her reading was a captivating performance, carrying me into the story even more than if I had read it myself.When disaster visits wealthy Esperanza Ortega and her family who live on a ranch in Mexico, she and her mama escape to California where they adjust to life as peasants and migrant workers during the Great Depression. Soulful, dramatic, lyrical, and extraordinary are the first words that come to mind to describe this unforgettable novel.
Read this book with my seventh grade students the first quarter and was pleasantly surprised. It was interesting to view the Great Depression through a Mexican immigrant's eyes, working on a farm in California. My students and I learned a lot.
An inspirational story that will stick with you. I love Esperanza. She changed so much in the course of the book. I loved immersing myself in her world and her culture. A must read!
Wonderful, heartfelt, emotional. I cried and cried. Particularly relevant these days.
