https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32417.Black_Sunday
I would say that that this story has not necessarily aged well in that a person not familiar with the political climate of the late 70s/early 80s may not get it, but as a representation of the world at that time I think it is a pretty good throwback.
Now, I was only a little kid at that time, so most of what I remember of that time is from history class, but it seems like Harris did a pretty good job.When it comes to pacing of the book, it is about 90% exposition and 10% action/climax/resolution.
"Black Sunday" is one of the big thriller/suspense novels from the 1970's.
I was also curious to see how much Mr. Harris changed his writing style so I finally picked up a copy.
The details in the book showed that Mr. Harris did his research and ,of course, there is a prophetic aspect to the story that delivers a zing even forty years later.
Like most first novels Mr. Harris had not yet found his style, but I can detect aspects of his later writing in some parts.
"Black Sunday" isn't a novel about serial killers.
The book describes the terroristic group which is willing to strike the USA.
They are planning to kill the president of the USA and 80.000 men along with him in the stadium by the blimp filled with the high explosive, plastid.
The terrorists, Dahlia and Najer recruit the American, Landen who suffered a lot in Vietnam War. He shows his willing to blast the blimp.
Dahlia killed lots of people who would have intervened with their plan of mass slaying.
He with the FBI agent kills Dahlia and turns the blimp to the riverside near the stadium.
I have to say that I really enjoyed this book.This is a book about terrorism, fanaticism and retribution.One has to read this book with an eye to how the world was in 1975, when the book was first published.The Palestinians, PLO, hate the Jews.
The Jews hate the PLO.
Troubled by PSTD Michael wants to die but in so doing want to take lots of people with him.
His goal is to fly a blimp packed with plastic explosives into the Super Bowl and kill himself along with 80,000 innocent bystanders.Then there is the Israeli Mossad lead by David Kabakov.
David Kabakov is every bit as fanatical in his hatred for the PLO.
In the opening of the book we find Israeli commandos attacking the lord of Black September (It felt like a flashback to the Spielberg "Munich" movie even if that one was filmed much later) and we find out about the okay given to an attack on the Superbowl by the terrorists who were approached by an American combat pilot who became an POW and felt his live was destroyed by his government.
It is a well written book and its subject is not that old style but perhaps very much more actual than we would like.I was glad to re-read this book as my paperback has long ago disappeared and I was glad to recover it Hardback version.
When you set out to read this book, don't think of this as a work by the author of Silence of the Lambs !
This would seriously dampen your enjoyment levels but if you think of it as another thriller by an author who is as yet unknown to you.
You will get a whiff of Thomas Harris's later work only in one character and his name is Michael Lander and that perhaps is the only place where the story moves away from the realm of cliche.A decent enough thriller.
Yes it's a thriller, but it was disturbing. I didn't like how the novel exploited the stereotype and made the terrorist, who were planning to bomb a stadium full of people watching the Super Bowl, to be Arabs. The only twist was that they were aided by a Vietnam vet who "sold his country". There's some psychology in there, but overall, I didn't like how the Israeli agent was portrayed as the hero and the Palestinians were the terrorist who were getting their revenge by bombing 70,000 people. That's a cheap shot.
I guess I'm a bit of a nutcase when it comes to reading - my brain has this dysfunction that forces me to read certain lines several times over when it feels like fucking my life up.
I guess I shouldn't turn this review in a rant, but I just wanted to give what I think is a pretty good example of how not to portray the lifestyle of what is, essentially, an evil person.What Thomas Harris achieves, by taking his time to explore the main characters, (in both 'Black Sunday' and 'Red Dragon'), is a group of people you don't exactly feel much affection for ...
Lots of tension and suspense in this debut by the author which was published back in 1975. The terrorism plot was realistic, though sometimes it did becomes mired down in the technical details of the plan, and the characters and their motivations were well drawn. A good first effort though his later works were much more polished.
Frankly I can't give a **** about the recent and far-fetched, 'Hannibal Lecter' saga. I think that though it is the more popular, it is clearly the less thoughtful or compelling work from Harris' career; it smacks of "pandering" (as do the works of Brett Easton Ellis) to the usual morbid American fascination with blood-and-gore. That's what the high sales of that franchise say to me. Instead, I say the peak moment of Harris' writing career came with this novel,  'Black Sunday'.  Why? Because its
'Black Sunday' in particular, has one of the all-time best paperback artwork.
Its as memorable as the cover for 'Jaws'.Happily, both Harris' and Forsyth's tales were both turned into incredible, taut, tight, well-formed movie adaptations --both blessed with quality productions by two top directors--thankfully, reflecting the caliber of the books.
This novel is just one scenario of something which could conceivably occur at any time.So: 'Black Sunday' is simply unique.
As I asserted at the start of this review: this cogency makes it far more formidable than Harris' other thriller about a lone, wacko, cannibal.
Although written in the early 70's, BLACK SUNDAY reads just like a season of the TV show "24," only with an Israeli version of Jack Bauer as the only thing standing between us and the terrorists.
This is Harris' debut novel, and, as such, the writing stumbles here and there, but the story is exciting, deftly plotted, and surprisingly realistic.
The most amazing thing about this book, though, is that, other than the occasional use of a telex, nothing in the novel stands out as being particularly dated.
A very un-PC novel in this day and age, but remarkably prescient when one looks back on it.
Въпреки че отношенията с Русия и Израел се позатоплят, в света все още хората са на тръни, особено в САЩ - войната във Виетнам тъкмо е приключила, преди три години е било мюнхенското клане, миналата година Уотъргейт, 73-а Войната от Йом Кипур и преврата на Пиночет...
Нищо, дирижабли все още се използват, макар и по-малки, макар и за цивилни цели - например да се снима от птичи поглед футболен мач.В болния мозък на Ландър вече се оформя план и той се среща с Далия Айяд - красива едрогърда терористка от Черният Септември, подразделение на Ал-Фатах, отговорно за убийството на израелски спортисти на олимпийските игри в Мюнхен.
Harris' only non-Hannibal Lecter novel, it concerns a plot to set off a bomb over the Super Bowl via an advertising blimp.Black Sunday suffers in the same way that Silence of the Lambs and Red Dragon do when read today in that Harris' books have been virtually strip-mined by Hollywood.
That makes approaching Black Sunday a little bit difficult - it reads somewhat like a taught knock-off of a lot of what's out there, until you realize… no, all that other stuff is aping Harris!Getting beyond that, as I said, it's a taught thriller.
This book was first published in 1975, a mere two years after the terrorists acts that marred the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, Germany.
Twenty-six years later, on September 11, 2001, the largest terrorist act was perpetrated in the United States.
When collateral damage is the sole object of the act this fits the bill.This is the second book written by Thomas Harris but no one then could foresee the laurels he would someday reap when he turns his attention from international intrigue to national terror in The Silence of the Lambs.
Thomas Harris could never be considered prolific, but he almost became a household name when he had the fortune of publishing three of his five novels at a pivotal time in pop culture history.
But in spite of a fairly successful film adaptation containing at least one iconic scene of the Goodyear Blimp sinking down on the 50-yard line during the game, Harris’ real superstar status was still to come.
I suppose this review will contain some pretty significant plot spoilers, but nothing a moderately astute reader won't see coming after reading the first quarter of the book.I could go on for a while about the pros and cons of Black Sunday, but basically it would boil down to the book being dated and Thomas Harris being a damn good writer.
The story would be totally lame if the bomb never got to the blimp and the blimp never got into the air.
Because of this, every plot twist and obstacle Harris throws at his bad guys is completely sucked-dry of tension.
I see a lot of the reviewers finding this novel boring and cliche.
Had Harris written this novel in 2005, those statements would perhaps have some merit.
Give that the novel was written in the 1970s, it's more prophetic than cliche.
More evidence of sheeple allowing others to do their thinking, I suppose.No, this isn't Hannibal Lecter, but I can see him lurking in the background.
Don't read this because you are disappointed Harris hasn't churned out another Hannibal novel.
Read it because he's written about the center of all violence: pain and misunderstanding and selfishness, leading to blind hate.
i have been reading Thomas Harris books since I was 12 years old.
I was the only 6th grader who could announce she had already read silence of the lambs twice before the movie came out.
Since then I have revisited the novel Red Dragon so many times that I could read the lines from memory along with the actors of the movie.
So much so that I can't even finish the book.
Too much of the details are still left in Thomas Harris' mind, since they are definitely not on the pages.
Entertaining. Especially for those who enjoy crime thrillers. It indulges in the psychology between the antagonist-protagonist which would become a hallmark of Thomas Harris's books.I most likely would not enjoy it as much on the re-read but when i read this I was going through a 1970s fiction a thon and this book fit in nicely. Expect to read some cliches. 65%
Superb ThrillerBlack Sunday is one of the most exciting thrillers ever written. It's an oldish novel, but it captures you quickly and holds your attention throughout.
The first offering (from 1975) of Hannibal-creator Thomas Harris is a suspenseful and relentless thriller about a terrorist attack. In its genre it is really good.
I remember I bought Dante’s Inferno, thinking it was a classic that an English major should read, and I never touched it that summer or any other.
It is true that it isn’t very character based and that many of today’s reviewers claim it is “lame” or “stereotypical” to write about Arab terrorists attacking Americans; but I just kept thinking that this was written in 1975, before it became too “stereotypical,” right in the hey-day of the Middle East conflict, the Six-Day War, Munich, etc., not to mention that this book is written a heckuva lot better than the aforementioned thrillers, with suspense, backstory, detail, and dialogue that doesn’t sound like such garbage coming out of the characters’ mouths.
I am sure there is another one setting the superbowl with a terrorist attack.The story is straightforward - we now terrorists, aided by a disillusioned viet nam vet pilot are planning to use the blimb as a bomb at the superbowl.
The cell is being closed down by the israli secret service and the question is will they succeed.What struck me here were two things.
it keeps you on your toes.But the same thing happens with a lot of thrillers of this ilk - it gets more and more breathless and the pages are running out and the ending seems a bit instantenous.
A damaged, disillusioned, not entirely sane Vietnam War vet named Michael Lander is the "lone wolf" who provides the resources and spark needed to accomplish the mission.
This book seems more relevant and plausible now, with the growing threat of ISIS (Black September is the comparable organization in the novel), the reality of homegrown and lone wolf terrorism, the constant instability of the Middle East and today's advanced technology.
Favorite quotes: "[Kabakov] felt himself developing contemptuous attitudes toward the web of safeguards between the citizen and the expediency of investigation." "There is a guilty thrill in being alone in someone else's house, particularly the home of a familiar person.
Thomas Harris is best-known for his Hannibal Lecter books, but Black Sunday was his first published novel.
Harris wrote the novel in the 1970s, following the terrorist attack at the Munich Olympics.
While many of the details seem dated (the key terrorist is a traumatized Vietnam veteran, the technology used in the attack is too primitive by today's standards), the theme of terrorism and a high- profile target such as the Super Bowl is even more relevant today.The story follows Israeli Mossad agent David Kabakov as he tracks several Palestinian terrorists from the Middle East to America.

Using a huge bomb attached to a blimp.
Primarily from the perspectives of Kabakov, the Israeli officer, his close contacts, and the terrorists themselves.
After the assassination of the head of the terrorist group Black September, Dahlia is the woman left in charge of their operation.
It was interesting to see the "strong female character" on the wrong side of the battle.
Each character had their story and their part form a small thread in a larger picture.
Culminating in a race to stop the bomb, on the road and in the air.
Od trojke koja planira teroristički napad na američki Super Bowl, jedino on mi se stvarno isticao.
Sve u vezi njega je odlično i da je on jedini lik knjiga bi bila čista petica.Naravno, svaki triler treba i svog antagonista i u ovom slučaju to je agent koji pokušava spriječiti napad.
Sve što mora imati svaki triler, pretpostavljam.Zato mi u je u konačnici ovaj rad tri.
Razlog za to je što nisam baš neki ljubitelj tog žanra, a i knjiga je napisana prije četrdeset godina pa naravno da po današnjim standardima ima klišeja, predvidljivih događaja i slično.
Opera prima di un grande Ho iniziato a leggere questo libro nell'estate del 2001, ma poi dopo l'11 settembre non ce l'ho fatta ad andare avanti e l'ho messo da parte.
Sebbene scritto un bel po' di anni fa (1975) già in questo libro ci sono tutti gli elementi che caratterizzano le opere di questo autore e sono stata colpita da quella che chiamo la sindrome Harris (perché nessun altro autore mi fa questo effetto, che invece si è manifestato con tutti i suoi libri): cioè quella strana sindrome per cui sei così preso dal libro che sei costretto a portartelo dietro e leggere anche solo una paginetta nei tempi morti pur di andare avanti e sapere cosa succede dopo.
Black Sunday is a well written run of the mill thriller about international and domestic terrorists.
It was good, I liked the back stories of some of the main characters, you understand the motivations a bit better.
There was a part in the book where the FBI says that a suspects clothes were American made which sent me scrambling for the copyright date.
The book was written in the 70's, but doesn't seem overly dated.
I hope I can find the movie, it has Quint, from Jaws, playing one of the main characters.
