https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/409320.The_Forgotten_Door
I remember the emotions I experienced when reading this book as a little 9 year-old.
I wanted Little Jon and the family that took him in to be safe.
I wanted the townspeople to stop their fear-fueled hate and see Jon's goodness.
I loved how he could communicate with animals and how his heart was filled with love and innocence.(I probably didn't know the words for what I was feeling back then, but I do remember the feelings.) I read this book so many times as a child, I read it when I was a school teacher and assigned it to some of my students, then I read it again each time one of my children read it, and soon I will be reading it again as the little one I take care of is ready for it.
Year after year, my students and I would read this book aloud (5th, 6th, and 7th grade). At the end of each year they would vote on their favorite book of the year and The Forgotten Door won every time. We would read it at the beginning of the year as a springboard for looking at how society treats those who are different. I highly recommend this book to teachers and students. This is one book that never will be outdated!
I hated the cover of this book as a kid. I remember seeing it in the school library, and thinking that it was some Twilight Zone type story, and way too scary. But there was an excerpt from it in our reading textbook, and I was hooked. I think I read it twice in a row. Love this book. Such a fun and different story! I need to get this for my kids. It would actually make a very good episode of something like Twilight Zone or Amazing Stories, heck, it would still be a great movie!
definitely worth keeping!
Still smart, still thrilling, and, yes, I still want to go to Jon's world.
probably just about right for fans of The Iron Giant.ETA: forgot to add the quote I marked, one of several that reveals how smart this book is for a young reader.
The father explains: "Actually, there are some pretty nice people in the world--only there aren't enough of them.
It's the troublemaking kind that keeps all the rest of us on the jump, and makes things the way they are.
Maybe nature intended it that way--to keep prodding us so we'll learn faster."
Sometimes when I'm reading or watching a great movie, I get sucked into the story and when it's over and I come up for air, it's as if the world had stopped those hours spent enjoying myself.
This is how I felt the first time I read the Forgotten Door.
I was drawn into the story.
The Forgotten Door had an impact on me as far as justice and family loyalty is concerned.
I read that portion of the book several times, feeling peace and acceptance.
I also felt sadness and great loss because I couldn't become a part of this new world.
Alexander Key, The Forgotten Door (Apple, 1965)Somehow, I never got around to reading this when I was actually in elementary school, so I figured it was time to do so now.
And now I know why I never got around to reading it in elementary school.
He finds a sympathetic family, and once they believe his story, they have to find a way to get him back to his place before he's locked up by some more of those evil human entities like the corrupt justice system.This had the chance to be a bang-up story, but Key's incessant moralizing hamstrings it at every turn.
A. Milne about the Knight Whose Armor Didn’t Squeak and I love that poem still.The fascinating things was that, printed in the pages or one of those reading books (though not the other, even though they were identical in every other way), was the entire text of Alexander Key’s The Forgotten Door.It was nearly a hundred pages long with illustrations and everything.Alexander Key also created the source from which Disney made their movie Return to Witch Mountain — which, despite it’s name, is not a sequel.
At the time I didn't connect the author with Escape to Witch Mountain, which latter I connected, quite properly, with Zenna Henderson's People stories.I realize now that Key never really dealt with an issue which weighed heavily on Zenna Henderson's mind: what moral responsibility do those lucky enough to be born in privileged societies have?
Key tended to argue that the door was forgotten for a reason, and the kindest thing the wealthy peoples could do for humans was to leave them to suffer without scarifying contrasts.
I'm not saying that Henderson was right, and there's no doubt she tended to be quite cruel in her attempts at therapy.
This is a wonderful story about a boy from an Earth-like planet who has fallen through a door into our own world.
Little Jon is able to communicate with animals and can read people's minds.
He has no concept of money, war, theft, automobiles, and many other things we take for granted (but he is very familiar with books!).Jon is taken in by a good, sympathetic family who shelter and protect him and want to help him find his way home, while he is threatened by others who are afraid of him because he is different and "unnatural."It's an exciting, magical tale of adventure that has a strong moral and ethical basis without being preachy.
I remember buying this book from the ARROW Book Club flyer when I was in elementary school. I think it cost 35-cents for the paperback back then. When this became available for 99-cents for my Kindle, I could not resist. How fun to revisit this story so many years later. I remember all the feelings of intrigue and foreboding that this book evoked. It was a great feeling of nostalgia to read it again.
2/18/15 Kindle Daily Deal $1.99.
I can better appreciate now than I did when I was young the subtext of a fearful pursuit of an "unnatural" boy in a 1965 novel.
The references to Cherokees and Gypsies make clear what type of fear the author is talking about, but the prejudice can be applied more broadly.
Also, kudos to Key for including a female judge in the story.
I'm fascinated to learn that ITV turned the novel into a television series in 1966.
The novel is certainly strong in suspense, and the final paragraphs are touching.
It had been quite a while since I read this, and I pulled it out as something quick to read outloud. While it didn't hold up as well as I would have imagined it would, it was still enjoyable and suspenseful. Re-reading it again after all this time, I wanted to learn more about Little John's home world and get a sense of the characters of the family that took him in.
Alexander Key is a fantastic author. I've never read a book of his that I haven't liked. His books are often out of print. I buy them on amazon used. Sometimes public libraries have them.
I did not know he wrote “Escape To Witch Mountain”!
He also wrote its sequel, “Return From Witch Mountain”.No doubt the second novel must be superior to its film.
“The Forgotten Door” came out in 1965, three years before the famous novel, which I solely knew as a film: “Escape To Witch Mountain”, 1968.
I am so encouraged to know that years before my birth, an author like Alexander Key so simply conveyed this message for children.
Youngsters reading it grow up with simple values to weigh, about what’s right and wrong.
I remembered reading this book as a kid and it really stuck with me for quite a while. So when I saw a copy in a thrift store, I picked it up and read it to my daughter, Hannah (age 7). Unlike many of the books I fondly remember, this one lived up to my memory of it and Hannah really enjoyed it too. It's short, engaging, and thought provoking - generally one of the best short young adult novels I've read.
Wonderful science fiction children's book. Moral message still holds true today. I read it again a couple of years ago ( after 25 years )...was still good.
I read this when I was a kid and loved it. When I got older (in my 30s) I read the rest of his books, but never liked any of them as well as this one. I should dig it out and re-read it...
Strangers can be kind or cruel, being different can be dangerous, sometimes you don't have control of your fate, only how you react to it.
I finally read this!
Seeing the 1965 copyright, this is clearly one of the early versions of a science fiction trope that's become almost a cliche -- not just the prejudiced rural folk (that goes back to AT LEAST 1951's 'Superman versus the Mole Men' and is inherent in the 1930s's Frankenstein movies) but the Cold War exhaustion and the idea that intelligence aspects of the government are essentially evil.
Also a very clear influence on "ET."I really like the cover -- but the downside is, the cover and interior art portray Jon as tall with short blonde hair, although the book makes it quite clear that he's short and dark, reminding some of the townsfolk of a Cherokee boy.
Interesting and quick readMy son had been given this book for a book report and i read along with him. It was a very interesting story. Makes you wonder about our world and others around it. Quick and easy read too. Simple to comprehend.
I've been meaning to read this for decades. Now that I have, I wish I had read it sooner.
When Jon comes upon the Bean family who takes him in, he realize just how strange of a place this is, and that he is not from here.
Things become worse when people start coming after Jon to take him away from the Beans.
These feelings plus those of fear Jon learns a lot about because he is different and people - except for the Bean family - do not like him and it is because he is different.
People are often afraid of what's different, and without really getting to know it - or a person - they start to hate and attack.
The Forgotten Door is a good book that is about a boy who falls through a door that teleport's him to another planet.
The boys name is Jon and that's about all he can remember.
He meets a family that is super nice and helps Jon find his way around.
So now lets talk about Jon. Jon is a boy about twelve years old and can read minds.
He also can read minds and see peoples thoughts.
There is some other stuff about him going to court and getting caught mind reading people.
"[Thomas Bean] drew forth the knife and clip [belonging to Jon, the strange boy]...
Jon, have you any idea what these things are worth?'"Little Jon looked at him intently.
'They are not worth what you think they are, Mr. Bean.
But that has nothing to do with its real value.'"Thomas whistled softly.
'I can't figure you out, Jon. It's a good thing we're not in business together, or we'd never make a profit.'"'But - doesn't the idea of a profit seem wrong?'"'I'll try to explain, Jon,' Thomas said very patiently.
I really enjoyed this when I was young, but some time between when I was ten and sixteen, a robber snuck into my house and substituted it with a very similar book - same cover and everything - but now with an insufferable plotline, ham-handed moralizing, and eye-rollingly stock characters. 3/5. Ten year old me gives this 4 stars; wizened, elderly me gives 2.
I have searched for this book for many years and found it!A story I read in my youth almost fifty years ago. I loved it then and I love it now. A boy, a door, and the kindness of strangers.
Wonderfully written children's book. The book tackles some deep issues without talking down to kids.
A nice read.
On the other hand it's a pretty heavy-handed, but fairly prescient, bit of social commentary.On the adventure side you realize right away that this was written by the same man who wrote "Escape to Witch Mountain".
Now the kind family who found him and befriended him have to try to get him back through that door and home before various bad guys get their hands on Jon. The story is simply but suspensefully told and it zips along except for some draggy parts involving people trying to capture Jon.On the other hand, our author has a lot to say about 1965 America.
