https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225545.A_Color_of_His_Own
Great book that teaches young children to embrace their individuality.
He then meets another chameleon who tells him that the fact that they can change to all of these different colors makes the more unique than all the other animals who only have one color.I really enjoyed reading this book and I read it to my Kindergarten class every year.
Leo Lionni does a great job illustrating his books which makes them easy for students to stay engaged and understand what they are reading or being read.
I feel that this book helps young kids understand that it is okay to be themselves and that just because they are not totally unique that does not mean that they are not special.
Wonderful board book with easy-to-follow English and Spanish text. Beautiful illustrations highlight the story. Makes learning colors in Spanish fun for kids and adults!
Even staying in the same place won't work when that place is a leaf that changes colors with the seasons and eventually falls off the tree.
The other chameleon suggests that they stay together so that they would always be the same color!
I love the beautiful, bright watercolor illustrations of the color-changing chameleons and other animals with dominant white space on each page.
I enjoyed the silly color-changes of the chameleon too, like when he has tiger stripes and red and white polka dots.
I also think this book is good for little ones who are learning color names.
Upset that he doesn't have a colour of his own, a little chameleon searches for an answer to his problem and, more importantly, how he can fit in with all the other animals. Having isolated himself from others because of this difference, his finds his answer in discovering that someone else is the same as him. It's an interesting book but I wonder if it celebrates social segregation rather than acceptance. Food for thought and I can't dismiss how much I like Lionni's watercolours.
Lionni’s use of color and white space allows for the reader to connect with the book on an emotional level.
The various backgrounds of pure white space in these full page spreads are important to guide the readers’ eyes to identify how the chameleon has changed his colors.
This shows a sense of traditional literary vices used in nontraditional ways Dubbed as “the master of the simple fable,” Lionni creates a wonderful and relatable story in A Color of His Own in which young children will be able to identify with through its moralistic view of friendship.
"A color of his own" by Leo Lionni is a wonderful book.
He first explains that chameleons change colors with whichever object they are near, and continues on with his sad story of not being accepted.
After reading "A Color Of His Own" I learned that Leo Lionni was born in Holland and educated in Italy.
He lived in many different places and learned a number of cultures and languages through his travels.
With the clever idea of a chameleon changing colors and the simple, yet engaging, illustrations, Lionni is able to covey a complex message of individualism.
This beautiful and simply told story about a chameleon feeling lonely because he doesn't have a fixed color, when all the other plants and animals do, is illustrated in eye-catching colors that I think are meant to be appealing both to adults and children.
Instead, they're wonderfully variegated, like colors actually are in nature.
And actual goldfish can be orange, red, black, and all other kinds of colors, while an elephant in nature is brownish-grey rather than the monotone grey we're used to seeing in fabric or metal.
But you can always hold off on the book for a few months until you feel they have a handle on their color names, then introduce them to these richer, more vibrant color choices.
The chameleon runs into a wiser, older chameleon and asks about the problem of always changing colors.
After learning from the wise chameleon that their color will never be constant, they decide to stick together.
Everywhere the two went, they were the same color as each other, but always changing.
This would be an excellent story to share with a culturally diverse classroom on young students who are just now discovering differences in skin color.
Students can learn that no matter what color they are, they can ALWAYS be themselves and it will be just perfect.
This was a great book about a lonely chameleon trying to find a find a color of his own. All the other animals and things have a color of their own and he keeps changing. Then he meets an older wiser chameleon who says that he will always change colors but they can do it together an never be alone. The illustrations are large and brightly colored. This is a good story about being yourself with bold eye catching pictures that children will love.
It was a good book about being what's inside of you. It doesn't matter what color you are or what you look like, it matters inside and who your friends are. Your friends like you for who you are if they're good friends. And if you don't like the way you look, don't pay attention to that! Pay attention to what's inside of you.
Leo Leonni, another author I read a ton of when I was little
Poor chameleon doesn't have a color that belongs to him! Will he ever get a color of his own?
This is an awesome book for middle school students, as so much of middle school is learning to recognize and respect one another's differences while also trying to find the crowd you fit in with.This text would pair nicely with the "Take a Stand" strategy (Gallagher 177).
After reading the book together as a class, I would ask students to take a stand on an issue that they feel strongly about.
This could be followed-up by asking students to write an essay that further developed their thinking, or perhaps have an in-class debate in which students are allowed to pair up to share their reasoning with one another and work together to defend one side of an issue.
This makes him different from everyone else and feel like he does not fit in which is represented through the use of bright colours which catch the attention of the reader and would be appealing to children.
However, after feeling as if he had no one to relate to, he meets another chameleon who helps him accept that they would never have a colour of their own.
The story portrays a happy, fairy-tale like ending.
Thus, the moral of the story could be happiness and contentment arises when one accepts who they are and experiences a sense of belonging.
Every animal has a color of his or her own except the chameleon. What ever he is near is his color. He is very sad and wants a color of his own. That is only until he meets another chameleon to share his many colors with. Then they are both happy.
This is a cute story of a chameleon who didn't like that he didn't have one color. He would change his color with every detail in his environment. Then one day he decided to be a leaf, however winter came and the leaf changed colors. The chameleon met an older and wiser chameleon who suggested that they stick together. This is an adorable story with illustrations to match. Love the simple painting and the lesson within this story.
This book could be used as a great tool for teaching colors and the changing of seasons to pre-k and kindergarten students. It also reminds students that whatever problems they may be facing, it will be easier to get through with the help of loved ones and friends.
The main idea of "A Color of His Own," by Leo Lionni, is a chameleon that is trying to find his true colors, but soon finds that companionship is more important than having a color of his own.
Since the book goes over different animals and their colors, this is a great book to help kindergartners with association of those two.
The children could have flash cards of all the different animals of the story, and they can do painting/watercolors (just like the book) to draw the animals and use colors of the book.
I think this is a great book to use for teaching acceptance, individuality, and friendship!
A color of his own by Leo Lionni, at first glance appears to be a sweet story about a chameleon searching for his own coloration but finds friendship instead, but upon further inspection is actually the story of a chameleon whose journey through an ever adapting environment, ultimately leads the chameleon to find its place in the world.
The Chameleons search for its own color perfectly demonstrates the human need to feel a place in this world or acceptance within a society.
Acceptance is something human beings struggle with at any age but young children especially feel a need for a sense of place within the world.
Leo Lionni's A Color of His Own is a very brief picture book about making friends and being yourself.
Lionni begins the book by saying that every animal has their own color.
The anonymous chameleon is distraught because he can't be just one color like other animals.
I could also tell that the certain mood of the book represents a different color, like a mood ring.
Instead of staying in one color like the rest of the animals, the chameleon changes colors to blend in with the background.
His desire to be one color represents that he wants to fit in like everyone else.
Cute story about a chameleon looking for its place in the world. His search is over when he finds another chameleon to travel around with. The nice illustrations remind me a bit of Eric Carle's work. Even though it's not one of her favorite books, my little one enjoys when we read this book every once in a while.
The book's protagonist is a chameleon who wishes he could be one color all the time, like the other animals he sees.
(Though I'd be willing to change my mind if it were intended to send a message in support of same-sex relationships, which is one way to read the book.) My other big criticism is with the illustrations.
Second, the color of the illustrations often doesn't match the description (e.g., the "yellow" lemon is lime green and the "black" winter night is actually purple).
(Wait, you're telling me that "yellow" looks like that???) All in all, it was a big disappointment.
I love this book..Helps my daughter with learning colors and even about animals. She is never blared when we read this book.
Amazing book for infants. My 3 months old loves this book. Bright beautiful colors.
Cute story about the colors of animals and a chameleon who didn't have a color of his own. Simple but cute illustrations.
I was thrilled that this book could say so much in so few words. It's colorful, shares the world with little ones in an interesting and fun way and teaches a valuable lesson in the mix.
This book is very unrealistic however because we know that Lord Chameleon was not friends with the caterpillar or ladybug, and lurked in the shadows their entire lives because he knew that they were the only thing standing in his way it stopping him.
We also learn that the reason that the chameleon kidnaped the spider in the original book was so that he could use her web to make a throne and castle for himself so that he would be well protected.
The book starts off introducing us to a chameleon that is upset because he is always changing colors to conform to his surroundings and he does not have a color of his own.
Each page portrays the background and the color the chameleon changes to.
The pages are also thick and hardcover so it is a great book for the little ones.
Aside from that the illustrations are very child oriented and can be a great way to introduce the colors to any child.
This book overall is a great read, it is simple and the illustrations are enticing as well as inviting.
And then seeing that it was a multi-colored chameleon I knew I had to read it.
I loved how throughout the book it discussed the colors of different animals so still teaching kids the "norms" of certain animals.
This book is simply about a chameleon trying to be comfortable in its own skin and not wanting to have to be something else.
It looked like water colors which I really like, but there was also a lot of white in this book.
I really liked this book.
