https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35068524-not-that-bad
We tell ourselves it’s not that bad. We’re told we’re angry women.It is that bad. I am angry. We should be.
Powerful. Raw. Stunning writing. Pretty much everything I would expect from a collection put together by Roxane Gay. What is it like to live in a culture where it often seems like it is a question of when, not if, a woman will encounter some kind of sexual violence? This is book about rape and rape culture. Some of the stories are empowering, some are depressing, but all talk about important aspects of the world we live in. Many of the writers explore how rape culture is not just about the act o
Pretty much everything I would expect from a collection put together by Roxane Gay.
What is it like to live in a culture where it often seems like it is a question of when, not if, a woman will encounter some kind of sexual violence?
Many of the writers, I noticed, have a very similar writing style to Roxane Gay. So if, like me, you enjoyed the darkly gorgeous writing in Hunger and Difficult Women, then you should like it here in this book.
Roxane Gay has built an anthology so strong, both in subject matter and in style, that I am feeling inadequate talking about it.
I have not read an anthology that I found this strong, ever.
There is not a single weak essay in here but there were some that spoke to me even more than the rest did.The anthology starts of beyond strong with Aubrey Hirsch’s Fragments and Jill Christman’s Slaughterhouse Island.
Do read this.You can find this review and other thoughts on books on my blog.
This has been, by far, the toughest book I've ever read. A numerical rating doesn't even seem to make sense with this essay collection. How do you rate people's trauma? Raw. Unflinching. Haunting. An essay collection that will be sitting with me for a long time.
Excellent anthology about rape culture and the patriarchal world we live in that perpetuates it.
Roxane Gay serves as editor of this powerful collection in which several writers share their stories of date rape, inappropriate touching, child molestation, and other instances of violence and harassment.
Some stories end with more resolution than others yet all show an incredible courage and vulnerability on behalf of these writers who reach into their painful pasts to shed light on our messed up culture.
Would highly recommend this collection to anyone, though of course I will provide a trigger warning and say this book contains graphic depictions of sexual violence and assault.
Anyone who doesn't understand the lifelong impact of sexual abuse, rape, and trauma (and how very different it is from regret over a bad date) should read this book.
Roxane Gay says in the introduction that she intended originally to collect personal accounts alongside pieces that were more on the research/journalism side, but ended up with so many compelling personal essays that she changed the focus of the book.
Some are more like lyric essays, some are blunt and to the point.
Because of the content I read a few essays in between other things rather than reading it cover to cover but this is highly recommended.
Everyone needs to read this. Everyone. So many brave stories. The audio version is phenomenal. Throughout, I'm reminded of Frida Kahlo's painting, "A Few Small Nips," which quotes the words of a man after he murdered his girlfriend.
I want to share a little story with you.
Though I didn't feel afraid, exactly, maybe he sensed I would.
I did feel the authors all had a vaguely similar style to Roxane Gay herself, so if you liked her other books, you might find this one interesting as well.
I'll remember some of these stories for a long time, while others will likely fade quickly, but that's just the way it is with anthologies and overall, I am glad I read this book.Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
Author/editor Roxane Gay has assembled nearly thirty essays from people who experienced rape, sexual abuse and/or child molestation. From understandable outrage ('Good Girls' by Amy Jo Burns and "All the Angry Women' by Lyz Lenz) to young innocence destroyed ('I Said Yes' by Anthony Frame and 'Picture Perfect' by Sharisse Tracey - both extremely heartbreaking) to the ugly side of the American entertainment industry (actress Ally Sheedy's timely 'Stasis') to the therapy process (Stacey May Fowles' 'To Get Out From Under It'), there are numerous types of personal experiences that will make any reader run through a gamut of emotions.
No. It was that bad but we still live in a world that, on the whole, doesn’t want to know about sexual assault.It doesn’t quite feel right to say I have a favourite anything where rape culture is concerned so instead I’ll say that the best definition of rape culture I’ve read to date is by Clem Ford: 
I (we) have a long way to go but I believe that by refusing to be silent about the “unbelievable” we (I) can be catalysts for change.If you have read this review and have experienced any form of sexual assault please know that you are not alone and it was not your fault.
It really was a fascinating and heartbreaking foray into the minds of people who have been victimized by rape culture and how oftentimes they characterize the fact that they survived (versus those who didn't) as "Not that bad" compared to how it could have been.
The idea that any sexual interaction is binary and that consent to something means consent to everything.This book was heart wrenching and heartbreakingly sad as it showcases the after effects of the victims.
I don't even know where to start reviewing this, Not That Bad evoked so much reaction in me and I feel very privileged to have the opportunity to read it.
Each story in Not That Bad is written by someone who experienced rape or sexual abuse in some form.
All of these emotions feel very real, because they are real, this really happened, it is still happening and it is shocking.
I would urge everyone to read this.Many thanks to Atlantic Books and NetGalley for my ARC in exchange of an honest review.
This I think is a very important read, but also definitely not one for the faint of heart.
If I could change anything about my reading experience, I would have read this over a longer period of time and not essay after essay after essay in one sitting - unfortunately I had to do this as it was a library book with an impending due date, but I think I was by the last 25% not really engaging as much as I would have liked with the content.
And these women's stories need to be heard.
This book should be required reading.
But then to be catcalled or petted without instruction is 'not that bad' because rape is worse, right?To tell an individual all they have suffered is 'not that bad' is to allow the perpetrators to continue; it encourages individuals to think of themselves as one of the 'lucky ones' rather than the victim; it disallows time to grieve and the confrontation of true emotions.The next time you tell yourself or another not to walk down a dark alley alone, to wear a longer skirt, or not to get black-out drunk for fear of bringing a bad situation on yourself, just remember that you are essentially advocating for others to suffer in your place, the ones who did not make these 'safe' choices.
"Perhaps the most horrifying thing about nonconsensual sex is that, in an instant, it erases you. Your own desires, your safety and well-being, your ownership of the body that may very well have been the only thing you ever felt sure you owned—all of it becomes irrelevant, even nonexistent." I felt so deeply for everyone who contributed. We are all fighting this battle and now more than ever we need to speak out.  Required reading.
Everyone should read this book. So powerful, so relevant, so necessary. An intersectional take on what it means to live in American rape culture.
Roxane Gay has put something together here that is almost indescribable. The very essence of rape culture has permeated our society so subtly that most don’t know of it other than in the most physical sense of the word. But in this collection of essays, writers of all backgrounds tell of how their lives have been affected. It is a masterful collection, one that is unflinching in its emotions and relatable in each person’s words.
Unforgettable, tragic, essential and true. This book is a monumental achievement - a light in the current, ever-present murky darkness. It’s not easy to read, nor should it be, but it offers within it a type of solace through catharsis.Thank you to Roxane and the incredibly brave, strong women who lent their voices to it.
One of my former massage school students (who was also a great intern in my classroom when I was a TA) has a powerful essay in this anthology.
Very cool!
https://miriamzperez.com/writing/I've read theirs and a few others so far (including Ally Sheedy's).
This will take some time to get through, but it's excellent so far!I got through maybe a third of these before I had to return it to the library for someone else's hold.
All of the essays that I read were excellent, and it was really hard to read.
I have never had such a hard time getting through a book that I liked.
Even when reading the words of survivor's in the past, it's always been bearable because it was one essay, one story, maybe two.
This book was close and intimate and uncomfortable.The only essay I don't think worked, at least in the context of the collection, was the one about sexual assault and refugees.
It just felt out of place.So, anyway, pick this up if you think you have the stomach for it, but it will not make you feel good after reading it.
This book - a collection of essays compiled by Roxane Gay - chronicles real life stories surrounding rape, sexual assault, rape culture, and ultimately how our society frames the experiences of many who suffer at the hands of these experiences as "not that bad" - pervasive cultural and societal minimization in experiences that are horrifying and inexcusable.
I honestly wish this book had existed sooner than this, wish that every single person could read this and understand how pervasive and prevalent these stories are, how many of them don't even get the chance to be told.
This is an important book; it should be required reading.
I love the inclusion of both LGTB and male voices, and important.
Which is fine, but those personal essays, by and large, are also about coming to the realizations about lack of victim blaming or the effect the attack had on the person later in life.
Again fine, but the title mentions culture and that is lacking somewhat.
The essays that are the better essays are the ones that connect more strongly to culture - such as those by Union, Stokes, Chen, and xTx.But this book should be required reading.
This just sent me in a fucking whirlwind. Read this book. I can’t provide a review of this book that gives it justice.Roxanne Gay is a fierce fucking force of nature who I now adore.
A purging of pain and hindrance brought on by the aforementioned groups occurs and we become better for reading and/or listening.This book doesn't just present essays on rape from the female, both cis and trans, perspective, but from the male perspective also, which I appreciated as society has yet to catch up on the notion that men are raped as well, and that transwomen face double chances of suffering from sexual assault.
"The Ways We Are Taught to Be a Girl") via social cues and nuances - lessons not only passed on by men but by fellow women, and not only passed from straight culture by LGBTQIA members as well.Please take a moment and read/listen to this book.
“Because when others serially talk down to you, assume authority over you, try to talk you out of your own feelings and tell you who you are; when you’re not taken seriously or listened to in countless daily interactions—then you may learn to accept it, to expect it, to agree with the critics and the haters and the beloveds, and to sign off on it with total silence.
It’s about saying “fuck politeness” and sharing all of your hard, ugly, hurtful experiences just as they are instead of what society will find acceptable.This was an incredibly difficult book to read.
It includes a diverse group of writers (men, women, transgender) who all have very different stories to tell, and who all agree, it was that bad.
What I need is what most women need when they talk about the sexual violence they've endured.
Whenever I tell the story I say 16, even though now I know once was enough."I read this at the exact time and place I should've read it.
I'm at the start of my therapy, recovering from my abuser, trying to handle sexual harassment by a guy, trying to accept that it was, as they said in the book that hit me so hard, bad enough and not just not that bad.
I felt less fake, less dramatic and sensitive when I read this and I'll take every story in this book to my grave
I read 50% of the book, I can’t read more.
Not That Bad: Dispatches from Rape Culture edited by Roxane Gay is not an easy book to read (there are content warnings for sexual assault, harassment, self-harm, gas-lighting, abuse, and more).
This collection of stories about rape culture tells a lot of difficult truths about the way society treats survivors of sexual assault, about the ways that survivors struggle to heal or deal or anything in between, giving a range and variety of experiences and voices.
