https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2426629.The_Two_Mrs_Abbotts
The first Mrs Abbott of the title is Barbara, née Buncle, main character of the previous two books, always a firm favourite.
This is not the case for the second and younger Mrs Abbott, Jerry, who married Arthur’s nephew Sam, who has gone to war.
Life couldn’t me more different!Most of the narration in fact focuses on Jerry and the people around her.
The Two Mrs Abbotts is deceptively simple but in fact showcases Stevenson’s writing dexterity, full of humour and satire.
Still not as perfect as Miss Buncle's Book, but delightful, heart-warming, cosy and funny. I am so glad I discovered D.E. Stevenson. I will definitely go on reading her other books.
When I finished reading Miss Buncle Married – I felt I wanted to read the next book – The Two Mrs Abbotts right away.
Barbara Abbott – who was once Miss Buncle – now has two young children, Simon and Fay. She and her husband still live in Wandlebury – the faithful Dorcas still in attendance.
Fortunately they are all as lovely as Barbara, and although this novel is not quite as fabulous as Miss Buncle’s Book and Miss Buncle Married, it is wonderfully charming and hugely readable, and just absolutely hit the spot for me the last few days.
Yeah, we hear good things about him and are lead to expect he is thriving in his own way, but Stevenson is an excellent writer, so we also feel the quiet, steady, constant pain their separation provides Jerry, even as she copes in her own competent way.Also, there's a good deal less of Barbara, and a lot of our time with her is while she's being badgered by some of the least-interesting characters.
It's still engagingly written and there were enough folks to like for me to stay with it to the end.
But I put it down with something like relief.
This is the third book about Barbara Buncle. I love this series and reread it every year. Unfortunately D.E. Stevenson is disappearing from library shelves. Her writing is wonderful with humor and real understanding of human nature when influenced by a society of morality and ethics. I miss this foundation in current literature.Barbara is a woman with many self-doubts who has learned how to put on a competent social facade. She tries to influence her family and friends, with humorous results.
1. This really wasn't as charming and fun as its predecessors, unfortunately.
2. The vignettes themselves weren't all that great either.
Some were fun, but too many of them were rather draining and dull.
And the ones that were fun were too short, and the ones that were draining and dull just went on and on.
(Much like this sentence.) Lancreste's moaning, for example, and the whiny Bobby, and the bad matchmaking, and the weird ridiculing of the Boles family: it was all pretty not great.
Life in the country goes on with some adjustments to the war effort.
Jerry's husband is serving in Egypt and her household has been opened to a company of soldiers as well as a refugee family from London.
The story becomes a series of snippets of ordinary lives during extraordinary times.I am so happy these books are still available!"...romance was a good thing in the right place.
It was not the whole of life ...
It was like chocolate cream, thought Archie, a certain amount of it was good for you and extremely palatable; too much of it made you sick."
There has been no introduction included here; instead, readers are ‘referred’ to the first two volumes.The Two Mrs Abbotts opens in Archway House in the village of Wandlebury in an unnamed county, where nursery nurse Dorcas – lovingly called ‘Dorkie’ by her young charges – is looking after Mrs Barbara Abbott’s children, Simon and Fay: ‘She was thinking how odd it was that children grew up so quickly and grown-up people remained much the same’.
The lighthearted tone, charm and humor were all present and accounted for.This 3rd and final book in the Miss Buncle series finds Barbara in the midst of World War II raising two children.
I felt that Jerry lacked some of the charm and subtlety that Barabra possessed but the other characters who make up her home are almost all delightfully fun to read about.This book saw the return of many characters from the previous novel and even one from Miss Buncle's book.
3 1/2 starsLong on charm, short on plot.
It is World War II and everyone is struggling with rationing and trying to make ends meet.
Barbara’s old friend from Silverstream days – Sarah Walker, the doctor’s wife – is visiting to give a talk on behalf of the Red Cross.
The book recreates a forgotten era, full of make do and mend, trying to live up to certain standards and do the right thing and supporting the armed forces.
If you want to read a book which entertains you without horrifying or terrifying you then try D E Stevenson.
The book will leave you with the feeling that all is right with the world.
Barbara has settled into domestic life with Arthur, their two young children and of course, Dorcas.
Barbara is still as honest and trusting as ever, making everyone want to confide in her.
Barbara dislikes the Marvells and doesn't know how to deal with Lancreste's relationship issues.
Sam is never far from Jerry's thoughts as she tries to run her horse farm, deal with horrible tenants and the regiment camped on her property.
Though it's not as funny as Miss Buncle's book, it's still charming.
Most of the book is dedicated to Jerry and her sphere with Barbara making only occasional appearances.
This wasn't as fun as the first two in the series, and now I've left it long enough that I can't remember the details to say why. Some of it is likely that the secondary characters take over the story, and I don't love them as much as I do Barbara and Jerry. But the romance is satisfying, and I wasn't sorry to have read the book. (That's a very lackluster review, and I think the book is better than I made it sound. Just not by much.)
I love all DE Stevenson and this is one of the better ones. Not as delightful as Miss Buncle's Book but better than Miss Buncle Married.
The first of the series is a hoot, pertaining to the mishaps of our heroine as she anonymously publishes a book about her neighbors in a small English village.
She eventually has to leave her home (luckily marrying her publisher) as the truth comes out who wrote “that book!” “The Two Mrs. Abbotts” really doesn’t have much to do with Miss Buncle (now Mrs. Abbott and with 2 children) but more with her sister-in-law and other characters introduced in “Miss Buncle Married.” So I was disappointed, as I really enjoy Barbara Buncle Abbott.
However, characters come and go and really aren’t developed much, so while okay for its genre, it did let me down.
Both Jane's and Markie's stories seemed like they could have been the basis for a book, but with so many supporting characters appearing, doing their bit and then scrambling off again, their subplots almost got lost in the shuffle.
There were some entertaining bits throughout—the one crowningly hilarious moment in the chapter "The Route Step" made me laugh out loud.So I'd say, basically, read this if you enjoyed the other Miss Buncle books and really want to spend a few more pages with the characters
Really disjointed, especially at the beginning when it jumped from character to character without much tie-in.
It was fun to be reunited with Sarah Walker, it was too bad she left quite early on.
Didn't get nearly enough of Barbara this time and she was lame when she was around.
What on earth did she have to be so tired about with servants and a nurse for the children?
Having charge of her own two children for an afternoon did her in?So, enough criticism.
All in all harmless and successfully entertaining enough little book.
Nothing special.
Certainly not as special as the two Buncle books, but dear.
Now comes D.E. Stevenson continuing Miss Buncle, married, two children, not writing, not missing it. SIGH. The first book was fabulous and so funny. The second, nice to be with old friends. The third, while a funny twist on writers in the plot, somehow just not satisfying. No question though that Stevenson has the genre down perfectly, light as a nightingale's song but not funny. Glad to hear Miss Buncle book reissued by Persephone Press was on NPR. And author still aluding to Jane Austen.
It was good to learn about what had happened to the two Mrs Abbotts. I wish more of D.E. Stevenson's novels were available. I only gave it 4 stars maybe because I felt that the characters spent their time having tea and lunch, which was weird since the novel takes place during WWII. Still, it was a very pleasant read. I saw somewhere that D. E. Stevensons novels were in the categorized as "light romance", but they seem to me to belong to the "cozy" category, sans mystery of course
This wasn't as good as the first two, but it was still a fun read. Just a bit scattered. Should have been called something like The Two Mrs. Abbotts Make Respectable Appearances amidst a Cast of Thousands. Well, Dozens, maybe.
What a find this author has been! This is the third book in the Miss Buncle series. Time has passed and WW II is upon England. As usual, D E Stevenson gives us gentle glimpses of small village life with a keen eye for human nature and a sly sense of humor.
Not as good as the first two books in the series, but this one is iteresting because it's set during World War 2 and gives a portrait of life on the home front, without making it all about the war. A good book for passing the time, but not an essential read.
Barbara Buncle is a delightful character and the 3rd book in the series, "The Two Mrs. Abbots" does not disappoint. As we follow Barbara Buncle through her life she only grows more dear.
I love this series and really enjoyed this book as well, but I'm marking it down to four stars as the ending was abrupt and unsatisfying, with several plotlines not resolved.
Barbara is the mother of two scamps, and Jerry is pining after her Sam, who is off commanding tanks in the war, and using her house as quarters for soldiers, introducing several new characters and taking the reader on some interesting adventures.Life in Wandlebury is still charming, even in the midst of war and rationing, and there are still enough people left in the village to go to tea at each others' homes and visit and ride horses and fall in love.
Enough with Miss Buncle. Sometimes a trilogy is just a book too far. I enjoyed Miss Buncle’s Book and Miss Buncle Married, but this one lacks the charm and spontaneity of those two, doesn't seem to have any sort of narrative arc, and the characters and dialogue are unconvincing. It feels rushed – perhaps her publisher pressurised her into writing yet another chronicle of Miss B to cash in on the success of the previous books. It’s not bad – just not good. Disappointing.
Such a great story!!! Wartime settings are not my favorite, but it wasn't overwhelming. There were some loose ends that I would've liked to have gotten answers about, but I still completely enjoyed the book and getting to know the characters from the first two books even more.
A WW2 Barbara Buncle Abbott book - comfort read.https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2018/0...
D.E. Stevenson brings us the conclusion to the Barbara Buncle series, honestly I feel as if I am losing a dear friend. Barbara of course always completely charming and the colorful secondary players were equally appreciated, the entire series was absolutely delightful and amusing. In  The Two Mrs Abbott's  Barbara's presence is shadowed by new and returning characters. In the midst of WWII Barbara and her husband now have two children but yet she still finds time to matchmake in her own Barbara
Barbara of course always completely charming and the colorful secondary players were equally appreciated, the entire series was absolutely delightful and amusing.
Jerry Abbott is the star in this installment.
Sam is off on the battlefront while Jerry tends to the estate along with her attempt at matchmaker makes for countless laughs and smiles.
Stevenson has created a cast of lovable characters filled with such wit and charm the reader enjoys all the antics and the feel of the English villages described.
D.E. Stevenson certainly creates amusing characters full of wit and crazy antics.
Inoltre ci sono degli evacuati da Londra decisamente poco simpatici che Jerry è costretta ad ospitare in un cottage nella sua proprietà, e una spia tedesca che si aggira nei paraggi.Come riescano gli autori (o meglio, le autrici) inglesi ad affrontare il dramma della guerra (anche nel fronte interno: anche in questo romanzo per esempio si parla del razionamento e dell'impossibilità di trovare qualsiasi cosa nei negozi) in modo così discreto e confortevole, non lo so.
Quello che so è che questi romanzi traboccano di umanità e mi fanno sempre sentire in grado di affrontare qualsiasi cosa, Barbara Buncle style!
I've been reading a lot of "cozy" books lately: they are the literary equivalent to comfort food when one has a head cold.
After reading this book I have one to add to my collection: "He read it [a newspaper article—too complicated to say why] carefully—and then he looked at Jane.
The last chapter was "The Dentist's Waiting Room."A jarring note of how much we have changed from 1943 when this was written came when I read this sentence: "Cigarette smoking is so universal that one is apt to forget it requires a certain amount of practice."I'll close with my favorite paragraph:"[Jerry, f.] and Barbara understood each other beautifully.
