https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143180.Storm_Breaking
Yes. Capable of misjudgment and mistakes-- but he owns up to his mistakes and works around them.Lackey has her Companions smugly assuring Elspeth that, no, rest assured they're in no danger of him ever being chosen-- they are free of the possible taint of him ever entering the Heraldic ranks.
I don't care that he's imperialistic, and is obviously political minded.It didn't matter that Tremane spent two volumes being as good of a person and leader as he could under terrible and confusing circumstances.
It didn't matter that we are not given any real backstory to decide whether or not Tremane was either a good or bad man.
Some of the relevations, particularly about how the Star-Eyed and the Sun Lord relate, and the true history of Iftel, are fist-pumping moments for people who have been following the series from the start, and it's immensely satisfying to see every separate meandering thread from over the years weave back into this final tapestry.And you can't talk about the Storms books without talking about Valdemar, who is possibly Lackey's best realized character in the entire series.
While I reread these every few years, I think my rating went down this time.
There was to much happening in to many places and it felt like most were handled too briefly.
The ending was far too abrupt.
The best parts of this book were with the Empire and Hardorn.
Although, getting rid of some of the characters that were too powerful and could likely solve everyone's problems too easily was probably a good idea.
There were so many mages by the end of this set of books that you suddenly understood Vanyel's actions in making people forget about mage-gift.
These two trilogies are most of the reason why I’m hesitant to pick up the rest of Lackey’s Valdemar books.The plot of this trilogy is that some ancient cataclysm is reverberating through the ages and causing mage storms that affect weather patterns, transport bits of land elsewhere, and even mess with human and animal biology.
However, unless Lackey really steps it up, I won’t read any future book she publishes about that particular transformation.Overall, a disappointing trilogy that was way too long and contained way too little plot.
Full review here:http://jamesgenrebooks.blogspot.com/2...Out of all of her Valdemar series, this is likely the best of the "Modern" setting she wrote. Not that the rest are inferior products, but more that she had a better grasp on the world she created and how to narrate it by this point.
Storm BreakingThe sacrifice of a few saved them all from the storms from the past. The Empire is corrupt and will need to be watched. Iftel will be a valued ally May there days be filled with joy
The ending was heart rending. Not for who died but for those who survived.But, this book spent way too much time with people and in places that have no impact on the story as a whole. Too much wasted time for a five star rating.
These books have so many bad things. But they also have some good things2.5 stars, anywaysI wouldn't recommend them but I enjoy reading them
Cataclysm'sStorms worldwide affected everything in its path. Survivors from all lands managed to their homes. Lost a few good friends and family for good reasons.
review later. this was a reread
Ah, a very satisfying ending to what was overall a great series.
All the characters had their part to play and some of the questions I had from other series are answered in this one.
I read parts of this series out of order when I was younger, and am only just catching up now (Still reading them out of order though, haha!) Now I understand more, I'm going to enjoy my favorite book (Owlflight) even more the next time I read it!Now all I need to do is choose what to read next!
Five stars for this one, a great conclusion.
It's strange, I think the trilogy with Elspeth is better overall (the Mage Winds trilogy), perhaps more even, but there is so much to like about this book, this trilogy.
Yeah, I know some things that were going to happen were too perfect in a sense, but I really love how Tremane winds up in Hardorn and what happens to him there.
She's not a favorite character, but I really came to like her at the end.As I was reading the last pages finding out what happens to who, the aftermath of what's done or not, and then was done and put the book down, I really felt a sense of loss.
Publishing these series at the same time formed a nice symmetry, but things are mentioned in the Storms books that get no explanation, and the only way to really find out about them is to read the Gryphon novels.
Only having read and remembered the Gryphon trilogy kept me from being confused a couple of times.At the end of this trilogy, though, I have to say that if you're interested in the Valdemar books, this is a trilogy you can't miss.
After discovering her when quite young, I still follow new additions to the series - nearly twenty years later!
I think I was in 4th or 5th grade when I first started reading them, and they've always been a pleasure to re-read - and I am sure this will continue to be the case!
In my re-reading project, I am going to try to read them chronologically - not by publication date, but by their timeline within the series.This final book of the Mage Storm trilogy is truly a bittersweet conclusion.
But someday, I would love to read a real continuation from this book!!
As Storm Breaking opens, the western allies, led by Karal, Karsite Sunpriest and delegate to the Valdemaran Court, and the Adepts Firesong and An'desha, have traveled deep into the Dorisha Plains to locate the ancient ruins of the Tower of Urtho, Mage of Silence, creator of the gryphons.
They know now that the mage storms are an "echo" through time of the prehistoric Cataclysm which destroyed Urtho's Tower, created the vast and barren Dorisha Plains, and permanently warped their world more than two thousand years ago.
He and Yfandes and Stefen deserved to rest.Reading this book really helped me understand the Valdemar series.
i understand their place in the pantheon now.I am encountering a problem that I think many people who read fantasy heavily must- I am getting very confused with all the different worlds I must remember even among authors.
And all the Valdmar stories written by other authors- I've read all those books which amounts to about a hundered extra Valdemar stories which aren't woven into the main narratiave but can confuse you as you recall echoes of - but didn't "X" happen to him/her?
Actually, after all of the subterfuge in the empire and the Hardorn/Iftel/Karse/Valdemar interactions, the climax of the book is almost underwhelming - which Lackey may have well realized, considering how brief it turned out to be.Disappointing on a few counts, but quite satisfying on others, Storm Breaking feels like it has its priorities a little out of order, but as it is one of the author's earlier books, I think it is quite enjoyable.
I do have admit, however, that this wasn't one of my favorites of her books.I just don't think I ever really got into The Mage Storms Trilogy as much as I did The Heralds of Valdemar Trilogy or The Last Herald-Mage.
I think part of it is just that there is a lot of time spent on the Empire, which makes sense because of the story, but I don't enjoy the parts about the Empire, and the mindsets there, as much as I do the parts about out other nations.Having said that, I did enjoy how this book delves more into how magic works in Valdemar and the surrounding lands, and it was good to watch them find the solution to the Mage Storms that had been ravaging the lands.
They're hoping some magic gizmo in the tower might help explain/fix this whole mess.The mages are still looking for a magical solution.
The artifactors (engineers) still grump that magic CAUSED the whole mess, therefore MORE magic will just make it worse.
They're looking for a NON-magical solution.
Karal's tearing his hair out trying to make everyone just STOP and LISTEN to each other for a MINUTE.
Really surprised Karal's not bald by now...WARNING: I'm a sucker for noble sacrifice, and I don't mind shedding a few tears.
This book is weak as the ending of a trilogy, but as the wrap up to a long running series it's downright inadequate.
About halfway through the book they start considering divine intervention and its pitfalls, which feels like a cop out even for a fantasy world that has established divine intervention as plausible.
The novel's actual plot is crammed into the last 150 pages or so and is woefully underwhelming.In the end, the story doesn't even check back with the two places which wold have been most affected by the book's events.
Perhaps my expectations were a bit high, but then one expects a lot after 20 some books in a series.
At least he's not raving mad and seems to make reasonable decisions about what's worth it and what's not.I feel like the happenings in the Tower were just a way to unanchor Vanyel/Stefan from the Forest of Sorrows and to confirm that Companions really are reborn heralds.
Why would Vkandis protect Iftel with an impenetrable border, but not protect Karse similarly?Also, I'd have to go back to read the first Gryffon book, but we seem to have lots of lost people who ended up different places.
As sparse as my knowledge of Valdemar is, given that I've only read the Tarma and Kethry stories and *The Last Herald-Mage*, I didn't particularly have trouble following along here.
I will say I would have liked a more in-depth treatment of Vkandis and the Star-Eyed (and if you didn't see the twist in that plot coming at you in the first book, well...), as well as just more detail overall.
But...this book, and the entire series, were absorbing enough I stayed up late and basically did nothing but read for 24 hours, and I'll pick up the rest of the Valdemar books too.
This is in large part due to Karal, who is just a delightful viewpoint character, and his sections work well with the Hardorn bits, which I also enjoy.The main problem with the whole series is that each book ends with exactly the same climax, just with slightly higher losses.
well, don't read this book for the plot.The lesser problem is the Empire POV scenes.
The Empire has ceased to be the villain, or in fact relevant at all, and this last gasp effort to bring them back flat doesn't work.Overall, though, I enjoy the trilogy quite a bit.
There is a lot of worrying by our characters about a solution that is pretty much the same as last book, plus more pages about a new character (Melles) in the Empire, which I pretty much skimmed the whole way through and didn't feel I missed anything.I did like the Tremane bits in this book, probably because they are now linked up to the characters and plot we are following.
On the other hand, I was a bit over characters I had previously liked, like Karal and An'desha, as their development and insights aren't anything new.There seem to be a few dangling plot threads, like the Iftel delegation - a lot was made of its introduction, but it didn't really contribute anything to the climax of the book.
Besides the tear jerker ending it was a tad too much stuff for one book the empire stuff could have had its own book all on its own and been fleshed out a bit more as a lot of it was just too abbreviated and confusing to the storyline.
I loved the fact that she wrapped up a lot of loose ends though, but I spent so much time trying to flip around the different story lines that I was feeling a bit overwhelmed.

This is the conclusion of the Mage Storms trilogy, so you should read Storm Warning and Storm Rising first--in fact I'd go back further than that, and read the Arrows of the Queen with Talia and the succeeding books.
I don't think this is the strongest grouping among the Valdemar books, but if you do love the preceding books, this entry is entertaining for several reasons.
For one, Karal is an engaging protagonist, and its interesting seeing Valdemar from his Karsite perspective.
I like also how this concluding book in the trilogy pulls together threads from several preceding books in this universe, in dealing with Urtho and the cataclysm that formed a defining backdrop in the previous books.
What I didn't like was that it felt like 97% of the book was "oh no, the storm's coming, what do we do, it's totally coming you guys" while we saw no evidence of the storms whatsoever.
Otherwise, I was glad that Karal finally failed a little and suffered a little (he was getting too invincible), and I thought that everyone else reacted to events as I would expect them.
I also really liked the insight into the nonhuman beings we got in this book, though I would have liked to see more about Vanyel.
As the conclusion to the Mage-Winds trilogy, this wraps up loose ends from throughout the entire Valdemar series while simultaneously opening up new vistas.
It is an integral part of the saga and I was satisfied well enough by the conclusions many characters were brought to.
I continue to like Karal, Firesong, and everyone else a great deal, but their personal relationships weren't as well developed in this book making the inevitable sacrifices considerably less poignant.
Still, this is obviously a must read for anyone going through this series and I liked it well enough.
What I remember most about this book is that even in this fantasy world where gods have routine physical manifestations, there is so much misunderstanding.
The talk that the priest has with his other-worldly companion about misperceptions is good, and it is underlied by the hints that each of the religions in the story is only getting part of the picture.
One country worships the male sun god, another worships the female moon goddess, but when they meet a centuries old mage, she worships brother and sister twin gods, and there is a crazy lunatic back in the capital that thinks they are all one.
