https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/874628.Stage_Door
It is interestingly structured, with a several characters (overwhelmingly female, notably) of roughly equal prominence operating in their various subplots in a boardinghouse; one character turns out to be the "star" role, but she's not much more prominent in the early scenes, so her centrality may not be obvious.
Or at least, it wouldn't be obvious if the stage directions didn't gush about how wonderful and talented she is, and the other characters didn't all seem to like her best.
I finished it slightly confused as to why anyone might consider it the best of the century.
One snippet of dialogue has two struggling actresses discussing how another actress of dubious talent managed to get cast in the play they just attended.
Olga, the pianist chaffs at playing tin pan alley after having studied classical technique for fifteen years under Kolijinsky.
Kaye is fleeing from a dream gone sour.
Louise trades her dreams for the domestic life.
Kaufman deftly incorporate several side stories that enich the primary tale of Terry Randall’s pilgrimage.
What may seem like a dated story, coming from 1936, still has relevance for today.
High School Drama teachers ought to keep this play in mind which has lots of female parts thus making it ideal for a student production.
The level of sophistication is also well suited teenage actors in that the characters have sufficient depth to offer a challenge to their developing skills.The play itself is simply a compilation of all known clichés about life in the theatre as it contains starving actors fiercely competing for parts, banal dialogues, two-faced critics, vulgar audiences, roués who prey on innocent young actresses, and bankrupt troupes.
A fun slice of life at a depression-era boarding house for down on their luck actresses. So many lovely lady characters here that you can tell would be fun to play (Olga was my favourite). I don't mind the meandering plot line, but I was a bit dismayed when the plot I was most invested in was awkwardly dropped with the end of Act Two, Scene One, but I imagine this is something that is corrected when staged.
This is the literal struggle of a Broadway actor trying to be noticed. All aspiring actors can relate. Doing this play in school next week and playing as Ellen Fenwick, not a huge role but like I said this play is about the struggle of at least getting a role you want or a huge role.
Pretty cute for the most part. I liked Terry Randall! :)
Lots of good female parts and witty dialogue. It's different from the Katherine Hepburn film, but still a good story.
ok story of wanna be actresses in NY
Currently in this play. I'm playing Big Mary!
Period show business play that still holds truths for today.
I don't think i would have liked it nearly as well if I hadn't seen the Katherine Hepburn film. It's actually much better with the movie running in the back of one's head.
I am playing Terry, but I would have been happy to play any character. It is funny without being too contrived, but it also manages sadness very well. The only confusing thing is the time jumps.
I was Little Mary in a high school production!
