https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/897426.The_Greatest_Miracle_in_the_World
If you feel the music in your life is already out of tune, just grab this book and read it to know the hidden secrets in every tune of music that is present in each one of us.Love is the greatest secret to live happily ever after.So let us spread love and have a peaceful life.I am highly recommending this one to all of you.
[Actually, each page of this book will lived a mark on someone's heart because there's magic in every page.
:)"Martyrs do not fail when their hearts cease to pump.""Only man, each in his own, has the ultimate decision on how his life is lived."Super like!!!!!!!!!
If this isn't the worst book I've ever read, it ranks very close to it, and it's an incredibly dangerous read to boot.
Mandino says he has something "direct from God" for readers, but it's simply a mish-mash of pop psychology (circa 1970s) dressed in "God-language" with a few Bible verses (in flowery KJV) to add to the effect.
Our problem, according to Mandino, is that we don't think highly enough of ourselves, and that once we do, we will achieve everything we have the capacity to achieve.
The last time I checked the Bible, that isn't the major problem God identifies for us--not that it matters to Mandino.
Outside of scriptures, this is the book I recommend the most for others to read.
One of the few books that has actually made me cry and continues to do so every time I read it.
Certainly they don't contain any secret methods on how to come back from the dead." "Ah, but they do, Mr. Og.
They can each come back from the dead .
and in those books are the simple secrets, techniques, and methods which they can still apply to their own lives to become anything they wish to be and attain all the true riches of life."(pg.
14)This book is a Must Read!
I include this in fiction because this IS a STORY, and it happens to be well-told.
One, that people who lack a high degree of motivation are essentially living suicides, and two, that even those thoughts that we "casually" expose our minds to have a very real & tangible, albeit unconscious, effect in our lives.But the point is not whether the author's argument is "correct", but whether it is good storytelling, as with all mass media.
But the form that the narrative takes and the way in which the story is told is so, so effective that it draws you in even against your better judgement.

i could not put down this book when i began reading it...as i read the God memo I cried and cried...this is definitely one of my favourite books!
How would it help a person's self esteem?
Of course, it does makes me feel pretty good to know that I was the fastest sperm.
Second person can't tell someone that.Just because your self esteem is sufficient, doesn't mean you can solve the problems that come to you each day.
Saying that the longer you are unhappy, the better reward you will receive, without an explanation is the dumbest thing you can ever tell someone.Then what do I think can raise a person's self esteem?
This will make you feel like a true person--an individual does not have to isolate themselves from the 4 billion other sperms.It does make you feel special though, doesn't it?
In this novel, one of the World's foremost inspirational authors, Og Mandino, shares the greatest secret in the world (no I am not going to tell you what it is).
Using his encounters with a "ragpicker" named Simon Potter, Og Mandino shares a story about life and finding happiness that ultimately culminates in the "Memorandum from God." Whether or not one believes the story surrounding the events that lead to the creation of the memorandum, I found this book inspirational and it was a very enjoyable read.
And, judging from the accolades it has received, it appears that many share my sentiments.
I really enjoyed reading this book for several reasons. Throughout the book my opinion of the main character, Simon, changed. I liked that it kept me reading to find out if Simon was being veracious or not. The author did a great job of personalizing the story, as well as giving it a mysterious feel. This book is great for anyone in need of a good pick me up and some motivation. By the end of the book I felt inspired to use my "powers of choice."
Wow. Just wow. I am so glad and grateful that my grandpa bought this for me so I could read it. This book moved me in a way I don't think any other book has. It was full of impactful passages that really made you think about your mindset and your life in general. I have more of Mandino's books because my grandpa gave me a few of his other works and I cannot wait to get around to reading them!
Worth the read.
This is definitely a book for those who can chew the meat, spit out the bones.
I think it does a wonderful job at reminding you that you are God's creation and therefore a miracle.
Yet there are more than one of each of these.On that reasoning you are the most valuable treasure on the face of the earth, for you know who created you and there is only one of you.Never, in all of the seventy billion humans who have walked this planet since the beginning of time has there been anyone exactly like you.
This was my first and most probably my last Og Mandino book.
It was sweet, preachy, and a little dated.
I think the sentiment was good and did enjoy Chapter 9, The God Memorandum.
The problem was the eight chapters leading up to it were not my cup of tea.
The story was that Og met God in the flesh and God gave him a memo to print for the world.The four laws of happiness and success according to God?
These are rules to live by, but it was one chapter.
The only thing that kept me reading to Chapter 9?
The book is only 98 pages.
A story by the author who meets a mysterious stranger.
The strange helps the author overcome some problems then is gone as if he were never there in the first place.
the stranger is Simon Potter.
Is he really God?
He gives the author four steps to be happy and over come a lose of self esteem.
The book seemed dated and out of touch with today's ideas.
I really did not gain much in the reading other than learning what the book was about.
It is not just a self help book, but a religious self help book.
The G-d Memorandum in this book changed my life. It gave me the ability to find my G-D and to bring Him back into my life and to stay clean and sober...I am writing this on my 19th year of Sobriety and if it were not for this book and my sponsor...I would not be here today! The Grace of G-d does wondrous things. If you struggle with a conception of G-D this book will help you find your way.I grew up in the neighborhood in Chicago that this takes place in...so the story is very real to me!
This book was referred to me by a good friend. Its only 150 pages; I read it within 3 hours. He claims it the best book ever, but I will have to disagree. However, if you are a Christian and believe in Him, you will love this book. I appreciated it for what it was, but I don't buy into it, so it was more of a preaching book to me, and that wasn't something I was looking forward to reading. Its good, don't get me wrong, but make sure you're in the mindset for an "inspirational" story!
Someone at work gave this to me to read. Mandino is a very talented writer, very talented. If he had left the God bits out of it I would have given it a higher rating. As it is, it is not at all on the foundation of a Christian worldview (despite its claims), and it can lead to very poor thinking about the nature of man and God. In short, good writing, poor theology.
My favorite self help/inspirational book (outside of scripture). I've used the God Memorandum countless times in working with youth and have found it to be a powerful means of improving a person's self-image. I've gone back to it often in times of discouragment or depression. I have owned countless copies of this little book, as I keep giving away the one on my bookcase.
I remember liking this book the first time I read it. I changed my mind after I re-read it in 2005. I mean, the book is full of inspiring messages but the way Simon kept praising Og Mandino over and over was very annoying.
Og Mandino has a way with words. Book is easy to read and it's one to read over and over again! How many times have I read it? A few times over the years...
Just okay, some inspiration, just no where as powerful as some other of Og's books.
This book immediately catches your attention and doesn't let it go until you finish. It is a beautifully written symbolic narrative. I read in two days.
A little too calculated for me. There is a nice dialogue at the end from "God" that is interesting to think about but overall the story is a little too movtivational speaker.
Another self-help book with just one chapter on actual self help(Thank God!!). Disappointment in many ways as there is nothing much to "read".
The problem of mankind isn’t that we think too lowly of ourselves and we just need to achieve enlightenment or godhood by loving ourselves more.
So I'm not saying he had bad intentions, or that he was totally wrong, but to claim to have a message from an angel from God, that we just need to count our blessings and love ourselves and that's the highest good we can achieve goes against the gospel we find in the Bible.
Like I said, that's so dangerous - to give people just enough warm fuzzies to placate their need for purpose, but not to give them the Gospel?
I have little patience for very fluffy, feel-good kind of stories and even less so when they are so self-promotional.
I've previously read Mandino's work and, while I can understand why some people would be very inspired and uplifted by them, it really isn't for me.
The most important part of the book - Simon's unveiling of God's Memorandum - was the part that bored me the most and I skimmed it because I was so ready for the book to be over.
If you really enjoy inspiring, trite, religious stories, you'll really really love this.
If not, don't waste your time.
Og was ahead of his time with what he said & I would categorize this as a self-help book.
It dabbles in ideas of rising above what you think you are, using love & following God to get there.
I liked how he used a story format to teach these concepts.
But it was a little outdated, so some of the learning & information was moot.
That's how it goes as we learn precepts & then build on them.
So I gave this book 3 stars; not because I didn't like it, but because some of his ideas just don't apply any more.
So this is my assessment of this book The Greatest Miracle in the World by Og Mandino according to my 6 criteria:1. Related to practice - 3 stars2. It prevails important - 3 stars3. I agree with the read - 4 stars4. not difficult to read (as for non English native) - 5 stars5. too long and boring story or every sentence is interesting - 4 stars6. Learning opportunity - 5 starsTotal 4.0 stars.
The World Needs This Book Now As Much As Ever!So many people today are trapped in their own living deaths...they have forgotten how to live and how to dream. This book reminds us that we are The Greatest Miracle In The World and reminds us that we have the power inside us to resurrect our lives and change the world for the better. You can’t read this story and not be inspired to be better!
Leí el libro después de haber terminado “El vendedor más grande del mundo” y lo terminé como si hubiera leído un especie de epílogo y prólogo del libro anterior. Esperaba más. Obtuve un poco de lo mismo que ya ofrecía el libro anterior pero mucho más prosaico. Sin la magia del original. Y lamenté la desilusión
