https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/205823.Caddie_Woodlawn_s_Family
What a wonderful read! I so enjoyed getting to spend more time with the Woodlawn family--it gives me a warm, fuzzy feeling inside. I do think "Caddie Woodlawn" has more of a plot with Caddie's character arc and the excitement with the Native Americans, etc. and is stronger than this collection of vignettes but I thoroughly enjoyed these stories. Some of them focus on other Woodlawn children, too, including one of my favorites "The Christmas Costume" featuring Henrietta. Also published under the title "Magical Melons"
A sequel to the Newbery title Caddie Woodlawn. Not quite as good since the stories don't flow as smoothly but still excellent. I would suggest reading this after Caddie Woodlawn.
This was just as good as the first book "Caddie Woodlawn". Actually, it is just a continuation of the stories. It's written exactly like the first book, so I felt like I was just reading extra chapters to the first book. Which is probably why I liked it.
I found this book at a church op shop amongst the romance novels and, although the title did fit the theme, the book itself didn't.
Each chapter is a short story focusing on an event in the family's life, some are touching, some are amusing, some are tedious.My favourite story was Mrs Nightingale's House and the story that followed it, The Christmas Costume, but the opening story Magical Melons was quite boring and not a good introduction for the characters.I could see this book being read to girls between 5 and 10, although some of the themes are quite old fashioned for modern children.
Caddy Woodlawn's Family, a.k.a. Magical Melons, is a loosely connected book of short stories, Woodlawn mini-adventures.
Not all the stories are about Caddie; the most beautiful and moving story in the collection is "The Christmas Costume, " a lovely tale starring Hetty, Caddie's tattle-taling younger sister (I shed a few tears over this one; it's incredibly moving).
"Nero Plays Cupid" about the shy older sister Clara and her budding romance with a neighbor boy is also a good snapshot of 1840's pioneer life.
"The Willow Basket," "Caddie Gets a Bargain," and "Go, My Son, Into the Forest" are all quite good as well.
Just unpacked this to put in my new bookshelves and remembered again how much I loved these stories.
One of the most memorable is Warren's remake of the Song of Hiawatha!
("Minne-haha' said the pine trees/'Muddy Oshkosh' said the water/Saw the firefly, wah-wah-wah-wah") ...I have laughed aloud more than once for those.
And when "Nero Plays Cupid" for seventeen-year-old sister Clara, and Caddie is amazed...and the fair where they enjoy good old-fashioned greased poles and log jumping contests...This cover is so cute, and the ink drawings inside are just as dear.
I wish books were still illustrated this way!
My copy is a retired library book, but I love it anyway!
There's always room for more magic, even after the amazing main course which is Caddie Woodlawn. This light dessert is served in the form of slightly more disjointed stories, based on events before, during and after the Caddie Woodlawn year; TRUE events from the life of Brink's own grandmother. 4 stars instead of 5 because, well, Caddie Woodlawn HAS to be the pi`ece de r`esistance.
There's always room for more magic, even after the amazing main course which is Caddie Woodlawn. This light dessert is served in the form of slightly more disjointed stories, based on events before, during and after the Caddie Woodlawn year; TRUE events from the life of Brink's own grandmother. 4 stars instead of 5 because, well, Caddie Woodlawn HAS to be the pi`ece de r`esistance.
My boys and I enjoyed the continuing stories of Caddie and her family. For those of you who read and enjoyed "Caddie Woodlawn", you have to read this one too! One of my favorite stories was about Cousin Lucy and the mystery of whether she wore a wig or not. Very funny!
I'm old enough to have read this book when it had a different name (Magical Melons.) Always sweet to catch up with Caddie Woodlawn, although this one is more a collection of short stories than the unified tale of the first.
Lovely to be back with the Woodlawn family again! I enjoyed these simple yet engaging and warm tales. A thumbs up!
Great read for older elementary
Worth reading if you liked Caddie Woodlawn, but not as good
THIS ONE MADE ME LAUGH SOO HARD! Ol’ Man Peabody was my favorite!! I read that part at least 20 times! 😂😂😂❤❤❤
THIS ONE MADE ME LAUGH SOO HARD! Ol’ Man Peabody was my favorite!! I read that part at least 20 times! 😂😂😂❤️❤️❤️
I liked it.
delightful!
The individual chapters were discrete stories, carefully arranged and with some connections between them. Some of them were quite charming, but others were entirely too preachy for my taste. The variety is the real advantage to this book, but some of the charm of that will be missing if you haven't read Caddie Woodlawn yet.
The books, written by Woodlawn's granddaughter, are okay and fill a readalike need...but I can't believe even in the 40s someone thought it would be innocuous to name a book "Magical Melons." The copy from my middle school library hadn't gone out in more than 10 years, not least because the off-focus, off-color permabound cover depicted a young girl holding a hat flat over her chest.
This book is fine fine fine for middle elementary kids, say 2nd-6th grade.
However, the reading level would likely be deemed too high for those younger kids, so the book ended up in my middle school library at some point.
MAGICAL MELONS or CADDIE WOODLAWN's FAMILY probably works best as a follow-up to author Carol Ryrie Brink's award winning historical fiction book CADDIE WOODLAWN about pioneer farm life in 1960s Wisconsin.
It is true that the three children appear in the very beginning of MAGICAL MELONS, discovering a supply of melons hidden in the hayloft, thus giving the book its original title, but their appearance together seems more a reminder for Caddie fans, before the focus heads elsewhere.I imagine other readers will be as delighted as I to read stories that feature others in the family, including one of my favorites that stars the often overlooked younger sister Hetty, who earns appreciation first outside the family and then within.Since I know that the author based her stories on her own ancestral family, and I have learned that Carol Ryrie Brink was orphaned and lived with her grandmother (Caddie to we readers), I wonder what happened to Tom and Warren and Clara and Hetty when they grew up.
This book is sheer fun!
It straddles the first book, 'Caddie Woodlawn', and provides extra views of the bouncy red-head and her family and friends.
You'd better go and read it right away!!!
One day, while Tom, Warren, and Caddie play "I Spy" (hide and seek) in their loft, Warren discovers watermelons buried in the hay.
Slowly, over the following weeks, their numbers diminish as Tom, Warren, and Caddie enjoy eating this secret stash.
As punishment for not asking permission, Tom, Warren, and Caddie must watch their family eat the remaining melons.
When unseasonably snowy weather forces a sheepherder to leave his flock spread throughout the farms of Dunnville, Caddie adopts one of the ewes.
This ewe dies during lambing, but Caddie successfully raises the lamb.
I almost think I liked this more than the first book, although this one has less of a cohesive plot and is more just a collection of stories.
There is an old-fashioned reminiscent feel to these stories, and they are very sweet (if a little predictable at times).
Themes such as neighborliness, caring for animals, Caddie proving herself to be just as capable as the boys, helping others, etc.
Due to the simple nature of the style and plots, I think this would probably be a book best geared toward early elementary kids, or as a read-aloud for younger ages.
Farmer Boy
Caddie Woodlawn was one of my favorite childhood books, and I still own it in hardcover. However, I didn't know about this "sequel" until recently. This isn't really a novel with a a single storyline; it's just more stories about the Woodlawn children and their adventures as a pioneer family in rural Wisconsin. There's stories about Caddie, but there's also stories about Tom and Warren and even Hetty and Minnie. It was just as enjoyable as Caddie Woodlawn, and I would definitely recommend this sequel to anyone who liked that book.
I wouldn't normally rate this five stars because I wasn't compelled to stay up into the wee hours of the night or let my children run around half dressed to finish it.
It's sweet and nostalgic and reminds me of the sweet stories I hear from my parents and grandparents about growing up.
It's a continuation of Caddie Woodlawn (girl and name of book) and her life growing up on a farm in the midwest.
I love the innocence and love of the Woodlawn family and I love that it's based on the authors grandma's real life growing up.
I got teary-eyed at least a half dozen times.
Gabe read this as part of our homeschool reading. This is like "Little House on the Prairie" for boys. The main character is a girl, but she is a tom boy through and through. I've been debating on whether I should have Gabe read the Little House on the Prairie books as part of our homeschool. I absolutely loved them when I was a kid, but I don't know of any boys who read them. What do you think I should do?
Short stories about Caddie Woodlawn, outdoorsy tomboy, and her family growing up in 1853 Wisconsin life. Pleasant family stories. Was nice to read on a snowy weekend. Nothing earthshatttering or as memorable as Caddie Woodlawn, but okay. I ordered this from outside the CCPL system so if may need to be hunted for.
I think the book Caddie woodlawn is lots of fun and my kids loved it. So I was excited to see a book written later with more stories about her family. It's a little more disjointed than the first but each chapter has a fun (usually funny) story. I think I'll have to get a copy and read it out loud to my kids.
"The Christmas Costume" is the Christmas one in this collection (the preceeding story, "Mrs. Nightingale's House" must be read to understand the Christmas one). This story helps me to realize I don't need to buy things to enjoy them (and why sometimes I don't enjoy things I buy when I get them home).
First known as "Magical Melons."That lovely redhead, Caddie Woodlawn, is back! Now there are more frontier adventures with the heroine of the Newbery Medal novel Caddie Woodlawn!The high-spirited Caddie is back with her lively siblings for some amusing escapades. Here are fourteen new stories about frontier life with the seven Woodlawn children. They romp through the pages
This book used to be called "Magical Melons," which is much better than it's current name in my opinion! It's not quite as good as the first, because it's more a meesh-mosh of random stories than a bunch of small stories that eventually all tie together, like the first book. Still, though, I enjoyed reading it.
I read this with my twelve year old granddaughter. This was her introduction to Caddie Woodlawn and she loved it! These are wonderful stories of pioneer life in Wisconsin in the middle of the 19th century and just as alive today as when they were written 60 or more years ago. I definitely recommend it for reading with children.
