https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/763510.Into_the_Woods

I have to remember that I'm reviewing the book, and not the film adaptation, but frankly, this is my least favourite musical up-to-date, and I only read the first half.
Because what is the nonsense of the second half?
End of story.
The script was fun to read for the songs, but having seen the movie first, I couldn't make myself read part two, not when I knew how it ended.
And speaking of the movie, it was frankly really boring.
I just couldn't get into it, and then frankly disliked it after the second half.
I strongly recommend watching the live taping of the musical (I've only found it on Netflix) before reading in order to grasp the comedy and shifting moods in the work."Into the Woods" is a combination of various fractured fairy tales (Rapunzel, Jack and the Beanstalk, and Little Red Ridinghood just to name a few) woven together into one tale.
The first act is humorous as it plays upon the absurdity and gruesome nature of the true Grimm's fairy tales and gives them a slightly more adult tone.
The second act is more somber, giving us a look at the characters as real people and the logical repercussions of their actions.
Very much like the movie, but different enough that I really enjoyed reading it.
The story has multiple conflicts, among them including Man vs.
Keeping track of all of the conflicts and struggles that each character has can be tricky, though I have an idea as to how I would keep students on track.
I will also ask them to write down which type of conflict each character/storyline is experiencing.
They will work together to fill out the sheet, and then will send an ambassador around to each group so that everyone can have a SWBS sheet for each main character/storyline.
This musical is genius. As with all plays and musicals, this is not meant to be read, but rather performed or watched, but there are those of us out there who read them anyway for various reasons. I read a lot of plays and musicals because I study theatre. This one is one of my favorites. The dialogue and lyrics are so clever and hilarious. It's truly an amazing work of art.
MagicLapine and Sondheim created a magical world with such dynamic characters. As a huge fan of the stage production it was great reading the script right after seeing the movie to compare it back to back.
This is a beautifully written musical that explores the darker side of fairy tales. What happens after the happily ever after? This is one of my favorites of Sondheim's. I recommend getting a copy of the original cast CD to listen while reading the script. The music really adds to it.
Both are a must have!Also, the CD track of the musical is a hit in our house, children dress up and perform to it all the time.I copied some info about it from Amazon below for the ones who never heard about it.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------Editorial ReviewsFrom Publishers WeeklyThis picture book-adaptation of the Broadway musical brings together many favorite characters in one tale, including the childless baker and his wife, Cinderella, Rapunzel, Little Red Riding Hood and Jack with his beanstalk.
All ages.Copyright 2002 Cahners Business Information, Inc. Product DescriptionThe Tony Award-winning musical,now adapted into a lavishly illustrated book Into the Woods is the imaginative account of what happens when the lives of new and old fairy-tale characters dramatically and humorously come together.
It also allows the reader to wallow in the intricate lyrics of Stephen Sondheim, which are a joy and an education all in itself.
That scene and the following duet “Moments in the Woods” are astoundingly good and reading and contemplating the song’s lyrics in this text has cemented its brilliance for me.Readers familiar with the original Broadway production which was preserved on DVD for PBS will hear some of the iconic line readings from that production as you read.
It will enhance the experience.Sometimes the brilliance of Sondheim’s lyrics are lost in performance because you can’t hear their nuance.
This was much better than I thought it would be, and I really hope that I can be in it soon! The characters were great and quirky and I loved loved loved Little Red Riding Hood. Also the second act took on a darker twist, and it really made the whole thing something worth the time it took to read it. It's a lot of singing lines, and those are harder to read than just regular dialogue. But it was a great show, and like I said, I hope that I can see it or be in it sometime soon!
An amazing play! I loved being in it!
Library copy
...And now the agony of waiting four days to see the movie! How an earth will I survive?!?Seriously, I love this play!
so much perfect.
Despite what the cover shows us, this isn't the script for the film version of the musical, this is the actual script.
That's what we discover in the second act.Despite what I've been linking to, I listened to the Original Broadway Cast Album, with Bernadette Peters starring as the Witch.
It isn't too clear what draft of the show this book shows us, because the original cast adds verses, (Peters in "Witch's Lament", or the company in the 1st act finale "Happy Ever After") or the album omits small reprises, or jumps around between lines (The Baker's Wife and Cinderella have a longer reprise of "A Very Nice Prince" for instance).
I enjoyed this beautiful, well-acted, delightful film of Stephen Sondheim's masterpiece “Into the Woods.” The work includes a wealth of items, fun dialogue, and very nice music.
A baker and his wife go into a magic forest to find four items that a witch ordered must be found and given to her so that the curse she placed on the baker and his wife that they would have no children would be erased.
The witch placed the curse on the family because the baker's father stole some magic beans from her garden.
The cast is perfect, the actors marvelous, including Meryl Streep and Johnny Deep as the wolf.This is a film for the entire family, young and old.
Not my usual reading material but since I wanted a change I decided to go for it. It was an interesting play, I liked the ending. It wasn't a stereotypical happy ending. It had death, an unfaithful Prince and the realization that all their problems didn't magically disappear. The "songs" weren't really that good. Sometimes they rhymed and somethings they didn't which made them feel chaotic and disjointed. Overall it was an alright play with an interesting blend of fairy tales woven into it.
I picked up a lovely copy of this with brilliant illustrations. I was very much looking forward to reading it. Unfortunately, I was quite disappointed. The treatment of women in this book was disgusting. All of the women die or are hags. I know that is not uncommon of fairy tales, but this was a new treatment of such. I believe it could have been done better.
I love musicals and sondheim! Such a creative way to combine all the fairy tales into one story. The only thing that would have made it better was if I knew more than one song from this musical.
My favorite play! I love the modern take on grim fairy tales and the brilliant exploration of what takes place after "happily ever after."
An enjoyable, quick read. Nothing holds a candle to seeing the actual musical though.
While darker than the movie, it is still immensely impacting on what it means to get what you desire and the lessons we pass down.
I've seen the dvd of this stage play 3 times (also the more recent Rob Marshall film 3 times) and even so, the script hardly elevates from the page without the music.
One of my favorite musicals and so much fun to read the play
Into The WoodsPLOT: Into the Woods is a jumble of fairy tale characters (Cinderella, Jack, Red Riding Hood, The Baker, and the Baker’s wife) all going into the woods to carry out certain missions.
I think the story does a great job of keeping the characters original plots and motivations and unifying them with one another journeys.
Into the woods in our own lives there may be thieves, self-serving people, giants (obstacles), or deaths but like in the end of the story the outcome may not be what you want or expected when you started the journey, but it may be what you need and come together at the end like it did for (Red, Jack, Cinderella, and the Baker).
I spotted so many metaphors that I wonder if any of them was actually there; for example, when the evil stepmother mutilated the evil sisters' feet so as to fit the shoe - isn't that a metaphor for how we deliberately choose to "mutilate", opress, change and conceal ourselves in order to fit the mold and be loved even though that's kind of pointless because, besides yielding only plastic happiness, the people we are trying to impress (in this case the prince) eventually end up realizing that we are not being true and dismiss us?I loved it when Cinderella said she didn't want to live in a nightmare house, but she didn't want to live in a dream house either, that she'd rather be somewhere inbetween - completely going against the typical fairy tale ideal.
Into the woods is about a far off kingdom, where lived a young maiden, An a sad young lad,an a childless baker,with his wife.An a young prince dance with a beautiful lady .
Jack dropped a bream a stock grew, he climbed it and stole riches.I think this is a great book for people that like mystical, funny , loving,mysterious types of books.
If you like this book I recommend Cinderella stories, Jack and the Giant beanstalk, and fantasy books.
I used to want to be in musicals more than anything.
Then I realized: I just want to sing authentically more than anything.
Then I realized: I just want to live authentically more than anything.
This is not conducive to a life in musical theater.
But at least I don't use jazz hands.So now I just sing along with my favorite musicals and cry when I'm alone in my apartment.
I still cherish that experience today (largely, I'm sure, because I do not own a videotape of the performance).
But then again, as I said previously, I love musicals.
Into the Woods explores the mixing of multiple different fairytales in an incredibly organized and thought-out story.
It incorporates all the innocence and morals that you are taught to hold on to in your childhood, and it transfers that into a realistic ending that doesn't include, "...and they all lived happily ever after." This musical explores the realistic painful experiences of life, while also including the occasional magical aspects as well.
While being extremely well-written, it also has the incredible ability to not only re-teach the audience the morals that they should know, but includes the audience on the characters' journeys to learn it for themselves.
