https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102327.Armor
Part 1The story's divided into pieces and begins with Felix.He’s on a military starship orbiting a hostile planet called Banshee and about to be dropped into combat along with 10,000 fellow warriors.
He’s a little like this:A woman vomits at the breakfast-line right in front of Felix, whose attitude’s one of and-no-fucks-were-given-that-day.
It's an ugly deal for the colony, and Crow begins to have second thoughts.Suffice it to say that before the finale, Jack Crow becomes:_________________________________________Part 3, melding of the stories.Against all odds, Felix has survived 20 drops.
An armored scout named Felix is dropped on the planet Banshee, a hostile alien world teeming with Ants.
Can Felix (and the Engine) survive the war against the Ants?
At first glance, Steakley took the parts of Starship Troopers he liked the most, power armor and aliens that resemble insects, and expanded it into a novel, but Armor is so much more than that.Armor is the story about what war does to a person's psyche.
For fans of military sf like Starship Troopers and Old Man's War should give Armor a try.
Steakley actually juggles two stories here, both of which read like a novel in their own right.
The narrative of the novel alternates between Felix and Jack Crow.
Of the two, the Jack Crow bits are often unevenly paced, varying between surprisingly violent scenes and slow, dream-like scenes of introspection.
The how and why of this is serious spoiler territory so I won’t go there.Honestly though, it’s a really interesting story.
It’s also an interesting way of telling a story.
I just glared over the book at any interruption.I highly recommend reading this after Starship Troopers & The Forever War, but before Old Man's War. All of these feature men in armor doing battle in the future.
If the link goes bad, google "Armor 2 Steakley" & it will pop up.Pre 2007: If you liked Heinlein's Starship Troopers & Haldeman's "The Forever War" here is a third to read.
It also makes the story a bit more complex than the other two & better written.Starship Troopers is perfect reading for a teenager, The Forever War pretty much summed up how I felt about the military after doing my time.
I didn't think one needed to be grammar accurate if telling the story from the point of view of a character, who is not necessarily an educated person.If you are a grammar Nazi, you'll probably hate this book.
Maybe you meet it with a bit of all of these.The Plot:A man named Felix wears this suit of powered armor to fight in a war against intelligent insects known as "ants".
He decides to use this as a gift to help ingratiate himself with the people in charge on the colony.The story proceeds from there; going back and forth in time between Felix's experiences in the "Antwar" and Jack Crow's experiences on the colony, and then cleverly links these two plot threads in the end.My rating:I loved this book.
How can I not try to read this book?It is a very good novel with great start and the last quarter of the novel.
And the battle scenes are great for raising my heart rate.I found there are loose parts of the story.
The loose parts are around 20%-75% of the book.
Some readers should be patient on 55% of the book.
Maybe that's the reason for the unfinished plots and the lack of of some background stories.
The first 20% is good military SF, and the last 75%-100% is the good payment for reader's effort reading this book.
From an author named ‘Steakley’ you’d expect a two fisted, macho-sized t-bone of a story, and that is exactly what Armor delivers.This is a story of one man's desperate attempts to survive as he is dropped on a strange alien world over and over again to fight endless waves of huge ant-like aliens intent on tearing him to pieces.Like all good stories of this nature, however, there is more to Armor than marines frying 'bugs', yelling 'HOO-rah!' and engaging in homoerotic bonding rituals.Armor is an engaging, If at times gruelling, story of what war can do to a soldier, of how to survive a person can be forced to strip away almost everything that makes them a person as we know them, instead becoming a creature of war- a relentless, unthinking killing machine comprised purely of instinct and quick reactions.You've no doubt read novels built on similar concepts before, but Armor takes a different tack from many military SF stories.This is Starship Troopers, stripped of hope, stripped of its political angle, stripped of everything except the desperate drive to survive constant brutal and bloody war.
You won't believe it at the beginning, but Armor becomes intensely emotional, especially for what's considered a "military SF" novel.
I unhesitatingly recommend the audio version.Armor isn't the perfect novel -- it's hard to believe in the Antwar because we never understand why humans want to be on this toxic planet, it's hard to believe in a computer glitch that can't be fixed, and there's some psychobabble that doesn't hold up to 21st century psychology (Armor was published in 1984), yet this is a powerful, character-focused, deeply emotional novel about human suffering and the will to survive.The ending of Armor is both devastatingly glorious and agonizingly inconclusive.
Something that really could compare to Starships Troopers or The Forever War. Instead he had to go and break the narrative with Jack Crow’s story.
It’s a colossal error in story-telling judgment.As in Vampires, Steakley can write effective scenes of psychological torture that puts you there, even if you don’t want to be.
In a different novel and a better writer’s hands, Jack and Karen’s relationship might have been interesting but here it’s trite and melodramatic.
(Though I did like Steakley’s coda: (view spoiler)[“Karen is not pregnant and won’t be.
(hide spoiler)]Recommendation:Read the “Felix” sections because they really are quite good and skip the rest.
Armor is a science fiction book from my "top ten list" of favorite Sci-Fi books, maybe in my top ten in any category.
This is probably my third or fourth re-read of this great book.It's the story of Felix, a foot soldier in a war against an alien ant-like race.
There is insight into the psychology of soldiers, the pessimism that comes out of being thrown into "the shit," day after day, deployment after deployment, for no discernible reason.
It's also a commentary on the idiocy of war, how there's no such thing as "glory" and maybe how bravery isn't really bravery at all...
3.0 stars. Certainly deserves to be listed among a handful of classic "military SF" though I rank it below the likes of Starship Troopers and The Forever War. Focuses on the psychological effects of combat and the effect it has on the soldiers fighting it. That alone makes it worth reading. It does have some weaknesses such as the slowness of the middle sections of the book and the occasional lack of quality writing. That said, I still recommend it for military SF fans.
You're still right and the fans still liked it.Almost everybody agrees that the ending rocks, even the detractors.In terms of comparison to the other two oft mentioned members of the "Holy Trinity" of power armor stories: "Starship Troopers" and "Forever War", I think it holds up just fine.Most negative reviewers will hold one of the other two books up as a Holy Grail of combat sci-fi.
"Starship Troopers" was not that well written, and "Forever War" falls into a weird pretension more often than I would have liked.
It must have been part of the zeitgeist of the mid-1980s, as Card’s Ender’s Game was published right around the same time.
The suit of armor is its own character, which binds the two bits of the story together.
At first, we follow the exploits of semi-superman Felix, as he battles the Ants, an insect-like interstellar enemy of Earth (very like the Buggers of Ender’s Game).
Eventually, we see space-pirate Jack Crow acquire the suit of armor and explore it’s stored memories with two scientists on a world that he is supposed to be infiltrating.It was engaging, although I found the Jack Crow sections to be a bit opaque in meaning.
What a ride! It's truly a military science fiction jewel. If you liked Starship Troopers your're gonna love this one, Steakley was obviously inspired by Heinlein's work (ugly giant insect-like enemies, battle armors).Somehow, I think this book hasn't had the attention it deserves. Can we please make a movie out of it? Or, better yet, a TV series? Please listen to me, Netflix!It is now one of my all-time favorites. Highly recommended.Concept art by Adam LucasAccording to Wikipedia, a sequel was in the works at the time of Steakley's death:https://web.archive.org/web/200612210...
Their own quiet place in space is becoming unstable, local forces and an enemy of Jack Crow's past coming together for a final conflict that forces them out of Felix' memories, and into a war of their own.This book succeeds not for the writing - Which is either brilliant literary eccentricity, or just not that well crafted depending on your perspective - or even for the plot.
The machine, the monster, that lies within every man, and how he can choose to champion it, or let it destroy him.
There are some obvious nods of the head to Robert Heinlein's Starship Troopers, while telling a story with its feet firmly planted in a military much like the one many of us in the late '60s through the mid'70s knew.
As in Vietnam where the troops were thrown into battle in a war there was never any intent to win the troops here are treated as expendable.
In Armor "Fleet" clearly intends to win the war, but they also pretty much think of the troops as "material" to be used.
One follows Felix, a soldier fighting against alien creatures known as "ants" on a planet known as Banshee, and the other storyline -- which begins abruptly about a quarter of the way through and continues until the final quarter -- follows a criminal named Jack Crow.Felix's storyline is intense and powerful.
There was much that did not add up.If only Steakley had stuck with Felix's story, I might have considered Armor a good novel.
Felix was more than enough to pull the story along, but the author's obsession with Jack Crow and his hypersexual exploits all but ruined it for me.
No-one survived.The Jack Crow plot-arc was AWFUL, waffling, pointless.
There were points where the editing was abysmal, and I'm not just talking about the occasional typo.
At one point, a doctor checks on a person who fainted, and their diagnosis?
"this person is emotionally and intellectually exhausted." HOW DO YOU MEASURE THAT?
There are points where the Jack Crow arc is logjammed with pointless cipher characters and about halfway through I had to lob this book into the rarest of categories....DID NOT FINISH.How is this book considered awesome and canonical?
Solid military scifi focusing on a single young Scout who manages to be sole survivor from his unit in more than one attack. Bug-like aliens and powersuits suggest instant comparison to Heinlein's Starship Troopers, but this version is more PTSD than gung-ho. Divides into sections, with the seemingly abrupt change of protagonist (and date) from Felix to Jack Crow taking awhile to re-connect with Felix's story.

It's a bit understandable in the case of Felix since he has a secret that is revealed at the end of the book.
Much of the action involves Felix in combat in the title armor on the planet Banshee.
The premise of fighting the ants and human troopers in powered armor is highly derivative of Heinlein's 'Starship Troopers'.
We don't learn anything about the ants or why mankind is fighting them.
Use some of those paragraphs to give us a slightly bigger picture view of the fighting or the world or the culture of space-faring mankind or the ants or something.
It reminded me a little of Consider Phlebas (mainly the character of Jack Crow) as well as The Forever War (though it seems like every sci-fi soldier book I read reminds me of that one).
Clearly, when you get to the end the reason for his story is provided, but I guess I just didn't like Jack, and his story paled in comparison to Felix's - I found I was a little bored.
The novel did tie everything together - the reason for Felix's "Engine" and his skills made sense, as did his rationale for joining the Ant War. And there were parts that were just heart-wrenching; the section with Forest, for one.
A military action book with heart and compassion. Who would've thunk! Initially, it seemed like one of those SF ideas that goes thus: Young boy with nothing to do observes an anthill. Puts a stick through one of the small holes and lo and behold ants stream out. Pokes more holes and soon has the whole hive agitated. Imagines he is fighting a battle with the ants. Ants discover him and start coming up his legs. That night, while scratching the itchy welts on his feet, thinks, "What if I wrote a s
Puts a stick through one of the small holes and lo and behold ants stream out.
Imagines he is fighting a battle with the ants.
That night, while scratching the itchy welts on his feet, thinks, "What if I wrote a science fiction story about my battle with the ants?"
The book is like its main characters, hard on the outside but emotionally tender.Personal impressions: There is a melancholy in the writing, and an anger at specific aspects of life, ostensibly associated with the military.
Not with respect to the Ant War, but in terms of the experiences of the two main characters.
One of my all-time favorite sci-fi's from an author who has not done anything nearly as well since.A soldier in a horrific and seemingly unwinnable war loses his identity and self within his armor.
Meanwhile (in the narrative which traverses between the stories), decades after the war, a pirate/crook and a pair of scientists discover a piece of armor floating in an abandoned spaceship.
They begin the process of reviewing the armor's files by basically reliving the experiences of the soldier who had worn it.Often, sci-fi stories seem to be entirely about an idea, but this one is about the human experience in many ways.
This often-overlooked military Sci-Fi novel has some of the best pulse-pounding, page-turning SF shoot-em-up action you will ever read. Regrettably, the entire book doesn't hold up to the quality of those scenes. Dialogue gets a bit trite at times, especially the internal monologue of Felix who revels in melodrama, female characters exist mostly to hop into bed with the closest male characters, and the pace is clunky with two storylines that could have been more skillfully interwoven. But overall it's worth reading for those who enjoyed Starship Troopers and The Forever War.
The first story is about Felix, a survior of uncounted "drops" on Banshee, home of the enemy "Ants".
Felix is the ultimate soldier in his Armor, wreaking havoc on the hordes of enemy 1,000# "ants" that attack any military landing on the planet.The second story revolves around Jack Crow, a famous brigand and scoundrel, and his bid for freedom and a ship to carry him to wherever.
The controlling intelligence for the ants was never addressed or even why we wanted to fight on the planet.
The action is good military stuff but against a pointless foe.
I have given ARMOR ***** stars because it is one of the most realistic and graphically written novels about war, hands-down!
He's made a Scout and given the standard, fully armored battle suit which is complete with the latest computer controlled technology that provides him with the most up impressive firepower of any soldier in the known universe.He and his fellow warriors are going to need all of that weaponry!
This nightmarish planet is called Banshee and that is where Felix and thousands of his comrades are deployed.This is one of my most favorite sci-fi military novels ever read!
Meet Felix: A soldier/scout encased in mechanized body armor.Meet the enemy: Huge, bioengineered aliens resembling ants.Felix is dropped time and time again onto a planet where the "ants" dwell, and time and time again he survives.
Three to Five successful drops qualifies you for retirement...Felix has not lost count of his drops, but somehow his superiors lost track...The battles are intense, and when wounded, the armor injects the soldiers with pain killers so they can fight on.
Some of the best hand-to-hand scenes I've ever read.
This is probably because it was my first experience with well written sci-fi.
At least well written in comparison to what i was normally reading.
In any case this book tells the story of Felix who leaves through nightmarish experiences in a war on a distant planet.
I think what is most compelling about the story is that it captures the brutality and savagery of war despite it being set on a distant planet while fighting aliens.
A great book that shows wars effect on a man and how he can overcome and still have hope.
Wow. Armor is some pretty heavy stuff and very memorable story. While the pacing could be a tad better -it fluctuates from extreme intensity to sometimes rather drawn out- it's well worthy of the critical acclaim it has received. I could've easily given this a 5th star except there was some parts that were a little muddled. Regardless Armor still reaches inside to mess with your guts. While its not one of my favorite sci-fi novels, i get the feeling much of it will stick with me, perhaps even in dark dreams.
