https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6092335-himalayan-blunder
As Chinese were growing strong on NEFA front building better roads , better communication India were still in hope that Chinese will not attack India and thus Nehru pointed basic requirement as un necessary expenditure on part of Army.
Among all problems a major one was to keep Army in there present status by providing food , clothing , arms and shelter, which Civil authority ignored and thus keeping a 3000 soldiers in good condition was a challenge for John.
A must read for all! Readers can understand the hidden politics of the politicians and the horrible life of the soldiers at the Himalayan border.Every politician must read this book to know what he/she should not do.After reading this, my impression of Nehru changed to a great extent! People should have changed their mind set slowly after the release of this book. But even today, many projects are being named after him! That is the great irony.
And as I read on further, drawing parallels between what was written in the book and the intriguing happenings hogging the headlines in newspapers and dominating the TV news-channels 24/7 for the last few days, I wondered to myself: “Are we heading for another Himalayan Blunder?” Is history going to repeat itself after 50 years?I have heard a saying: THOSE WHO DO NOT LEARN FROM HISTORY ARE CONDEMNED TO REPEAT IT.
It seems to be the same story we are witnessing now – the civil-military divide, the lack of appreciation of ground realities by the Delhi-Centric powers that be and the trust deficit between various stakeholders.Books like the Himalayan Blunder will make us aware of our mistakes of the past so that we don’t repeat them.
Just sample the following rules of engagement(a) Persuade them to leave Indian territory(b) If Chinese do not comply, dig-in opposite to them to scare them from attempting further incursion(c) Fire is permitted only in self-defense and that too with minimum forceThese were the orders to 7th infantry brigade from the higher command to counter the heavily armed, well administered, well prepared Chinese incursion in the Namka Chu valley of Thagla region of NEFA. The orders spelled total annihilatio
Very rarely we come across books written on India’s war history and rarest of rare ones do highlight the failures.
The book starts of with a narrative on controversial McMohan line dividing border between India and China followed by the Chinese annexation of Tibbet and India’s luke warm protest to it.Majority of the text then deals with china’s expansionist attitude and Indian Army’s alarm signals to their civilian command.
I have complete trust on what J P Dalvi says but the tone is so negative and harsh.
This is true that the Dalvi was implicated and made a scapegoat in this whole episode and his frustrations and pain flow on pages of the book.
I have my respect for the gallantry and resolve of J P Dalvi.
But still that question is not answered, why didn't he resigned at first place where as in the book he asks why others (of higher posts) didn't resign :-).Still a good one to read and have at shelves.
[Through Atanu:]Apparently, Ms. IG banned this book because it exposed her father. I hope Indians will wake up to the truth, and shove the dynasty to the rightful place it deserves to be in.Not sure if this book is available in the stores now.
And as I read on further, drawing parallels between what was written in the book and the intriguing happenings hogging the headlines in newspapers and dominating the TV news-channels 24/7 for the last few days, I wondered to myself: “Are we heading for another Himalayan Blunder?” Is history going to repeat itself after 50 years?I have heard a saying: THOSE WHO DO NOT LEARN FROM HISTORY ARE CONDEMNED TO REPEAT IT.
It seems to be the same story we are witnessing now – the civil-military divide, the lack of appreciation of ground realities by the Delhi-Centric powers that be and the trust deficit between various stakeholders.Books like the Himalayan Blunder will make us aware of our mistakes of the past so that we don’t repeat them.
What makes a nation great ?The book provides a beautiful answer to the question above.
Our humble army men, doing a thankless job, without ration, ammunition,boots or winter clothing, defending few useless pieces of logs and redeeming the follies of few spineless, arrogant men with their blood, sacrificed themselves fighting valiantly for the honour of the country.JP Dalvi rightly asks what more can a nation ask of its soldiers.Not many of those who sacrificed their lives are remembered by the people today.
1962 is a distant memory.I bow my head in respect to our great martyrs.Sadly, India is not out of woods yet.
In 2010, Government of India refused to make public the Henderson-Brooks-Bhagat committee report regarding the 1962 "Blunder".
Dalvi’s close involvement with the Sino-Indian affairs through his long stint in the Army Head Quarters in the 50s and later on active duty in Ladakh, followed by his assignment as the Commanding Officer of the 7th Brigade that took the main thrust of the Chinese attack of 20th October 1962, and his own ultimate humiliation of any army officer to be taken as a prisoner of war, made him just the right man to narrate those events that led the grand old army of the World War II to its most crushing defeat in less than twenty years.This book was born in a Prisoner of War Camp on a cold, bleaks night of 21st November 1962, when the Chinese Major in-charge woke him up in his solitary confinement, writes Brig.
However it does point to the collective failures of Civilian and the Military apparatus in averting the War which caused national humiliation in 1962.The dressing down of "demi-gods" like Nehru and V.K Menon by the author exposes the propaganda that is dished out for Nehru being a statesman and a strategic thinker.
The complacent approach of Nehru in mindlessly trusting the Chinese and unabashed nepotism in appointing top military brass (appointing BM Kaul as Chief of General Staff despite having no experience in actual warfare) shows the inadequacy of national leadership at that time and is well documented in the book.
The key mistakes of Indo-sino conflict like Nehru's ignorance of patel's warning, Appointment of Mennon & Gen.Kaul, setting up forward post on controversial DHOLA area, Lack of infrastructure planning for the war time are explained in detail.The author has nailed every possible events that led up to the war. Kudos to our army Jawans who fought the Indo-Sino war bravely despite the screw up of our political leadership!A VERY GOOD READ!
The book is unique in a sense that it is written by the Brigadier who actually led the force in NEFA. The book is well written and provides an indepth analysis of India's Chinese Policies, its apathy towards its army and most importantly how Mr. Nehru, Mr. Menon and Mr. Kaul created an environment of self deception for them, the parliament and the Indian public which ultimately led to India's defeat... I would have rated it 5 star had it not been repetitive.
HIstorical description from the point of view of a army personal.
Brutally honest.
A must read book for every Indian to know the truth about Indo-sino war of 1962.
Fantastic book which covers the entire Indo-China war of 1962 from the perspective of an Indian Brigadier.
While you'd come across a lot of historical reports of the war elsewhere, this book provides that one thing which all those reports lack - a live perspective right from the borders and yards away from the enemy.
Read this book to understand that perspective.
By the time all of the build up makes sense, the war is over and you're on the last page.It still leaves you with a feeling of awe and immense respect for the men guarding our borders and for the fact that this book isn't someone's imagination but a real story of a war we must not forget.
On the morning of October 20th 1962, Brigadier John Dalvi found his garrison at the receiving end of a massive assault by the Chinese Army and was overrun within a matter of hours.
This book is an extraordinary military account of the events leading up to the debacle resulting in the Chinese advancing 160 miles into Indian territory.
The march of his garrison from Towang to Namkachu can not be appreciated without getting a visual of the terrain.I thoroughly enjoyed reading the book and would heartily recommend this to any military history buff, irrespective of their interest (or lack thereof) in China or India.
A heart wrenching story of a struggle.
A struggle faced by the an Indian soldier against the backdrop of the icy winds of the himalayas, sans warm clothing, boots and a soldier's worst nightmare- sans ammunition.
An imbroglio of political indecisiveness, intelligence failure and miscommunication, all at the expense of the lives of brave officers and jawans who defended the country, to be ultimately betrayed.
The 1962 Indo-Chinese war saga is a shameful defeat of the entire country, not just the army.
Brigadier Dalvi gives a true and passionate account of the darkest epoch in Indian military history and political leadership.
For a whole generation, which has been Ram Guha-ed into reading post modern history (one should still read him, for he still covers amazing breadth as well as reasonable depth), there is no alternative source to vet the competence of India's political class from 1947 to 1962.
Foreign policy decisions aimed at grandstanding and projecting one individual as world savior, key ministerial appointments based on friendships and old equations and a complete breakdown of decision making over many years backed by zero knowledge of armed conflicts stand out as key failures.The book is written by an author perhaps most qualified to write one on the subject, given his personal role in the war.
The Chinese launched a devastating strike against India and occupied most of the territories and pushed back the Indian army within no time.
Dalvi was an upstanding officer in the Indian army was firmly believed that China does not have any right over Tibet and that the McMahon line ought to be India’s north east frontier.It was October 20, 1959, when Havaldar Karam Singh and his 20 strong troops doing their routine border patrolling when all of a sudden nine men from the patrol team were buried under in a matter of seconds in a hailstorm of bullets.
John Dalvi was perhaps best positioned to write about the Indo-China War of 1962, an event in which the Indian Army came out second best, not because of their fault but largely because of the sloth of the men who governed India those days."Himalayan Blunder" is the story of a tragedy which could well have been averted.
Yet there were moments of glory too for the Indian Army but it got a battering after having come out of Second World War in '45 with flying colours.Brig.
The book deals with the war between India and China faught in the year 1962, in the area of Mc mahon line near Arunachal pradesh.
Indian army had lack of equipments and were not supplied by the govt because of a belief that China would never escalate a war against India, which proved to be wrong and costed us lives of many brave army personels.
Indian Army even with so many internal problems faught the war with lot of courage and gave the Chinese army a big blow on its face before collapsing.
Everything except the fighting spirit of the Indian soldier failed in the events leading up to the brief Sino-Indian War of 1962 in which our country were over run by the mighty Chinese.
In short the events leading unto 1962 were a recipe for a disaster.
The book is written by a Brigadier who was in action and was held prisoner by the Chinese for a short duration after the war.
Brigadier Dalvi has written a book analyzing the Chinese invasion of 1962.
'Failing to prepare is preparing to fail'-Benjamin Franklin.
Nowhere is this adage more apt than in the descriptions given by the Brigadier.India's political machinery was inept then and they stand exposed.
Krishna Menon's communism and idiocy, Nehru's lack of foresight and planning, went into the chinese stroll inside India.Two lessons the author wants to convey through this book:Firstly, complacency is a good bedfellow of disaster.Secondly, a lackadaisical attitude in defence will be very costly at some point.Have we, as a nation, learnt our lesson, yet?
I picked up this book as a change from the kind of books I usually read and it proved to be an extremely engaging read. It proved to be accurate, detailing the 1962 India-China war and also demonstrated the various obstacles that the army had to face, including difficulties relating to supplies, logistics, hierarchy and poor support from the then incumbent government. Apart from detailing the military aspects, the book is also a good read while adjudging shortcomings in Indian foreign policy with relation to China, prior to the war. Certainly very interesting.
i couldnt get the original, in English. It is translated to Kannada by Ravi Belegere. Its a really heartrending book which in simple language presents the tough geographic and climatic conditions our soldiers had to brave along with the mis-management of whole situation. Exposes celebrated leaders into opportunistic and crooked politicians. Overall a very good read that gives a total insight in to political and administrative incapability of India in 1962 Indo-Sino war. At the end of the read, the beautiful snowy himalayas is just a war field n grave of our brave soldiers!
Impressive. Dalvi's first hand account of India's disasterous month long war with China in October 1962 provides a damning verdict on Indian Government incompetence. As well as effectively how the Indian army was betrayed by its own government. A classic example as to how a minor disagreement between neighbouring countries can escalate into a major flash point.
We spent all our childhood thinking this bloody as***** Nehru was a hero. Thank God, his photo didn't come on our currency. A good read. Actually a must read for all so that at least now people will understand the ability of Congress to rule a country. #Hope we won't choose people like Menon, Kaul, Thapar to rule us in any way possible.
One of the best military book I have ever read.In today's time It makes me wonder are we heading for another Himalayan Blunder??Brig Dalvi "no hold barred" account of Indo-China War was an eye opener for me.Nehru should have been charged with Massacring of our Indian soldiers , but he is always known as "Chacha Nehru". Thank you very much Retd. Brig. Dalvi for sharing the facts.
A gripping read. We generally want to read about the successful missions of our country but the unsuccessful ones give a greater insight into all the mechanisms that are in play when it comes to such a huge and horrendous event as a war. This book provides great recounting of all the political as well as military happenings leading up to that war.
