https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69169.God_Stalk
For some reason she decides to join the Thieves' Guild as an apprentice to a very old, highly respected master thief, even though she's morally against stealing and only pilfers worthless items for the Guild.
Yet she gave them virtually nothing.She also spends countless pages working at an inn (cooking, washing floors, etc.), and while the inn was filled with some semi-interesting characters, these sections were mostly just padding, imo, as is the majority of the book, generally spent with Jame's wanderings about the city, with random side-adventures that felt tacked on willy-nilly.
You have to love Goodreads. I would never have heard of this novel if I had not seen some glowing reviews by other readers. P.C. Hodgell, who I plan to read more of, has created one of the most unique and interesting fantasy cities I've ever come across. Ancient, corrupt and "infested" with gods that battle for worshippers and power. The main character is named Jame and she arrives at Tai-tastigon with no recollection of who she is and we learn about the world and herself right along with her. A really excellent read.
Rating: 3.5* of fiveThe Publisher Says: In the first book of the Kencyrath, Jame, a young woman missing her memories, struggles out of the haunted wastes into Tai-tastigon, the old, corrupt, rich and god-infested city between the mountains and the lost lands of the Kencyrath.
I am all for rich texture in a story, and I got it here, but there are way too many delicious side trails that lead nowhere in this book.At the end of the book came my personal biggest disappointment as Jame left Tai-Tastigon for parts unknown.
This is an original, superbly written debut novel with outstanding world-building.
It is always nice to come across an older, lesser known (in least in my case) book that contains truly creative and unique ideas and this book does that.
The City of Tai-tastigon is truly the main character of the book with its thousands of gods (most with their own temples) and its confusing, maze-like streets.
Add to that a strong, well-drawn main character with unique and unsual skills and a deftly written plot that makes the reader think and you have a great piece of sci-fi/fantasy.
Re-read 1/4/15: I'm struck this time (every time I read this, I see it from a different angle) by the ambiguity of Jame's relationship with her God. Yes, the question of her identity is an interesting tangle, but it affects what we learn about the Kencyrath's God and how it touches Jame's people even in its absence.
Jame's experiences as thief and dancer in Tai-tastigon make for an entertaining and sometimes horrific story.But I think the thing I love most is the tension between Jame's people, the Kencyrath, and the people of Rathillien, the world in which the Kencyr find themselves.
This book seems almost incoherent at times.
I think I'm missing a LOT of somethings.
Often, I felt like I had no clue why things were happening.
For instance, Jame has amnesia.
Despite them SAYING she has amnesia and mentioning a few minor things she has forgotten, it's not really dwelt on.
I just don't get the sense that Jame really does have amnesia.
Jame joins the thieves guild.
Yet, she worries that stealing things is wrong in the eyes of her god so she doesn't do so.
It's a horrible feeling to just not "get" a book.
In these Hodgell creates some of the best examples of a fantasy city and a fantasy culture that I’ve seen in a while.Tai-tastigon is the city in which Jame finds herself after she stumbles out of Perimal Darkling and flees the Haunted Lands.
So she spends God Stalk living in Tai-tastigon, taking in the local culture, and learning to be a thief.Hodgell’s attempts to juxtapose Jame’s Kencyr honour and honesty with her newfound apprenticeship didn’t work for me.
I am not rating or reviewing this book, because the author's use of words rubs me the wrong way and my brain keeps analyzing it as a Bulwer-Lytton contest entry.
For example:He didn't see Jame, who was already parallel to him in the shadows.As opposed to being perpendicular to him in the shadows?Then Jame saw that a large, indistinct form was taking shape before her.How does an indistinct form take shape?
The words struggle against each other.I have at least four more examples from the first 15 pages, and I'm just not going to be able to enjoy the good parts of the book.
This series is among my all-time favorites, and I'm a big fan, but I'll try to give it a balanced review.
The series is unfinished, and there are at least three or four more books to go.2.
The world is not like ours; things are magic to a degree that I miss in the work of others.Jame, the seventeen-year-old heroine, is a good one.
She's an androgynous, tomboyish heroine, but unlike many such, never tries to pass as a boy, although she's frequently mistaken for one.She's a loner, and rather emotionally cold at times; this may work well with some readers and less so with others.God Stalk has one of the best versions of a Thieves' Guild in fantasy.
It forms no shape in my mind's eye, and slips like shadows from my dreams' landscape.The main character, Jame, mysterious as she is, with cryptic memories sprouting like weeds from her brain, a thief incomparably skilled yet honorable, a being of as-yet-undiscovered powers, fails to form as a coherent person.
These leave no mark on the characters, and I am not moved either.Many characters have highlighted cryptic, quirky personalities, yet have no real impact on the plot line.
Why did abc spend all this time plotting cryptically, yet nothing comes out of it but...this?
Why did xyz exchange long probing gazes all that time, and nothing results but...that?Finally, and worst of all, this novel is in serious need of a single, good villain.
3.5 stars
The start grabbed me: an amnesiac young woman dashes out of the haunted wasteland and into a complex, baroque city that shares more than a thread of DNA with immortal Lankhmar.
She navigates city politics and the paradox of the city's religious life, all while discovering or rediscovering her own talents and history.
Whatever the larger issues of this world or worlds, Jame is left to her own devices and for now her entanglements are of her own design.Each step of her discovery results in a more complex web of obligations and repercussions, to the point where I couldn't quite follow Guild politics or the ballooning cast of characters.
That's a lot to ask from a fictional piece of work.Godstalk is a smart book, full of creative details like Jame--who has sort sort of PTSD because of a foggy captivity prior to the beginning of the book and thus is unsure of her the extent of her magic--trying a simple spell to raise bread and instead causing it to grow a set of internal organs.
Obviously parallel evolution at work.Godstalk couldn't have been as bad as most of the fan fiction that populates the fantasy circuit at the moment, for the mere fact that many of these writers consume only other fantasy novels, whereas Ms. Hodgell is an English scholar and reads from the classics.
And the supporting cast is mostly one-note, including too many minor characters for the story being told, such that many of them run together.Meanwhile, the worldbuilding and at times even the plot seem to assume background knowledge from the reader, as if this were a sequel to something else rather than the first in a series.
This is the type of fantasy novel that includes three appendices with background information, one of them all about the complicated, science-fictional ancient history of Jame’s people, which is brought up frequently in the story and which I could not have cared less about.But there are readers who enjoy that sort of thing, and if you do, this book may be worth a shot.
I've been vaguely aware of this book, and that it's generally considered a Good Thing, for some time now, so when it impinged upon my consciousness again lately, I popped over to the Kobo shop and bought it (hooray for the magic of ebooks!).
And I found it...hm...I'm not sure I think it as brilliant as some people I know seem to, but I did enjoy it.Jame, injured and pursued by boggles, comes running out of the badlands and into the distinctly weird city of Tai-tastigon.
The extent of her Mary Sue powers is pretty mind-boggling, in fact, so much so that "What improbable special power will she discover next?" got to be as interesting and suspenseful as the highly adventurous adventure plot - which actually was rather interesting, though not without various serious flaws.
I'm not sure if she was actually very young when she wrote it, either, but its aesthetic struck me as very, oh, 14 or so.
For me that was both entertaining and highly annoying, so I probably won't be able to ever reread it, even though it was funny.
I have heard some good things about this series and I wanted to like it. However, this story didn't really work for me. The plot seems to jerk along. I would be reading a section and getting into the story and suddenly the story would move in time and space and something seemingly unrelated would happen. Also, I really couldn't develop any empathy for the characters -- not even Jame the main POV character. This reduced my enjoyment of the story. Things did finally pull together ... but I really didn't care so much by that time.
4/5; 4 stars; A-This was a fantasy story with a female protagonist. There were some pretty dark moments but no so much that it overshadowed the sense of adventure evoked by the story. I enjoyed the different characters, the presence of magic, the strange culture of the city, and all the gods. The appendices at the end were really useful. (In fact, I think I would have enjoyed the story more if I read them before the book.)
I loved this book back in the 80s; I can still remember the art on the hardcover edition from my local library, which obviously isn't this cover.
She has a tortured, mysterious past (check).
It's a very shallow kind of existence that young Jame leads, and although she's marginally more complicated than I've made her sound, I found myself more interested in the city, in the mythology, in the whole idea of the gods being shaped and deriving their entire existence from the belief of their followers.
Fortunately, Hodgell was clearly interested in these aspects too, so there's a bit of them.
Initially I had trouble getting into the book, as the heroine (Jame) doesn’t know what’s going on now and she has a 10-year memory gap in her past.
The initial mysteries who and what Jame is, and what she was doing outside the city of Tai-Tastigon are all presented in chapter 1 but are not resolved.
However, as soon as Jame stumbles into the inn of Res aB’tyrr the story really get’s going and it’s much easier to follow.
Much of this story is built on contradictions; Jame is from a rare race known for their honor – so she’s immediately offered an apprenticeship in the Thieves Guild, which runs the city of Tai-Tastigon.
I don't understand why this book has such great reviews...when I read it it feels like I have blinders on.
She has great ideas but they seem to come together in a shambled way.
You also have an image in your head of what the alley way outside their home might look like etc.
I love fantasy books and have read as many as I can get my hands on, and usually the ratings on good reads make sense and can be relied on...I just don't get it at all in this case.
6/11/11 I am in fact reading an omnibus edition, but since the books were written so far apart, I thought that I would record/review them separately.
The writing has been very nice so far and the story catching.-----6/12/11This is a very good book, there is no doubt about it.
It's not that we are not given that information soon after she arrives in Tai-tastigon!
As I said, this is one of the most original ideas I read in a book (even if I have encountered it in real-life before).I do recommend this novel to fiction-lovers, in spite of its occasional lack of focus.
I was reading the first couple chapters while Mom was rooting around in the glassware.--------------------------------------------------------------THE HILLS ROLLED up to the moon on slopes of wind-bent grass, crested, swept down into tangled brier shadows.
A night bird flitted overhead.
Jame paused to watch it, thinking enviously of wings.
For a moment it showed clearly against the moon-silvered clouds, and then the wall of mountains to the west swallowed it.
How near the Ebonbane seemed now that night had fallen.
Jame caught her breath, listening, counting.
The haunts had found her trail again.She tensed to run, then forced her weary muscles to relax.
I'm not really clear what the point of this book even was - except to set up book 2.
There isn't much in the way of a plot, and a lot of the characters have no point.
Why does Jame become a thief if she thinks it is wrong and doesn't even really steal much?
She becomes apprenticed to the greatest thief in existence, but we really don't see him much or learn anything about her training.
I also don't love her writing style.
I'll give book 2 a shot, since I already bought it - could be book 1 was just a really long set up for the rest of the series.
This was a re-read....God Stalk was one of my favorite books when I was in high school.
I must have re-read it a dozen times or so, the last time being in my twenties.
I opened it this time around with a bit of trepidation, as lately going back to some of my beloved books has resulted in disappointment.Luckily, it's still good.
Even so, I wasn't in love with the book the way I once was--the heroine, Jame, was a bit too enigmatic and Mary Sue-ish to be engaging, and I occasionally became frustrated by the snail-like pace of the plot.
I really debated whether to give this fantasy book (and the subsequent three books in the series) three stars or four.
On one hand the plot is complex and background information is revealed in bits and pieces, leaving one to feel rather out of the loop or possibily even stupid.
I kept feeling like I was missing something.
Also, the author has a tendency to digress into strange dream or alter reality scenes that seem to go on forever.
On the other hand, I really dig the protagonist who is a strong female character and I care enough for her and her destiny to keep reading the series.
I LOVE this book.
I still cannot imagine why it was not picked up by a large publisher and promoted the heck out of.
I recently purchased the latest book and wanted to re-read the series.
(There's only four, and this is the first one.) It's a sci-fi, fantasy novel, and it is rich, layered, and thoroughly enjoyable.
We pick up our heroine, Jame, injured, on the run, suffering from an infected haunt bite.
You wouldn't want to be on the streets after dark.) You, as a reader, have no choice but to sit back, and hang on.
LOVE IT.
This book and its sequels drew me in as few books do. The author drops you right into a fully-formed world, provides very little direct exposition, but I never got lost or thought, "Wait, what's happening here?" The style isn't the lofty, breathtaking prose of much high fantasy I could mention, but like an excellent butler does its job well without calling attention to itself—no mean feat. If I go on I'll just descend into expressing my enthusiasm with random keyboard-mashing, so GO READ THEM AND SEE FOR YOURSELF!
I tried, but I really couldn’t get into this book. I’m afraid it’s the type of ‘High Fantasy’ I dislike. The author is more concerned with pretentious descriptions and trying to be ‘enigmatic’ instead of concentrating on telling a great story.
Reading the many other reviews for P.C. Hodgell's writing, I'm inclined to conclude that she must be something like cilantro, or truffle oil, or hot Thai peppers.
I revisit this series once every year or two, as new novels come out, and I always start back at the beginning, with God Stalk.That's also about how often I treat myself to stir-fry with hot Thai peppers.
I love the way she makes the words flow, but then again, I write in the same not-as-simple-as-it-looks style.
