https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3467.The_People_of_Sparks
If I could give this book 6 stars, I would.
I enjoyed City of Ember as a fun, quick YA read, but this sequel is just as entertaining, while also being profoundly thought-provoking and insightful.I loved that the main characters - Lina and Doon - are honest and warm, with realistic struggles: Doon is still working on controlling his temper, and Lina's curiosity and impulsiveness still tend to cause trouble.
However, they are both guided by good advice and a strong conscience, paving the way for growth.Incidentally, I was very surprised to see so many mediocre reviews on this book!
Ένα βιβλίο γεμάτο μηνύματα και ερεθίσματα για σκέψη κατά της κακίας, της εκδίκησης και των πολέμων.
Βρήκα έξοχο τον τροπο που πραγματεύεται υψηλές αξίες και ιδανικά που υπάρχουν και καλλιεργούνται μέσα στο ανθρώπινο μυαλό και ξεκινώντας από ένα δυστοπικό κόσμο κάτω από τη γη φτάνει με δεξιοτεχνία να τις προωθεί σε όλες τις ανθρώπινες κοινότητες και σε μικρές ή μεγάλες κοινωνικές ομάδες προσπαθώντας απρόοπτα και προκλητικά να ανοίξει χώρο στο μυαλό και να προωθήσει τα ιδανικά της ειρήνης, της αγάπης και της δικαιοσύνης.
Ολα αυτά ειναι γραμμένα με τροπο απλό και λιτό,ευχάριστο και κατανοητό.
A sequel that holds true to its original characters, but puts them in a totally different situation and set of adventures. If I had one problem with these books, it would be that I suspect the authour starts writing the books with a "what values can I leave the readers with?" idea in her head. But, to her credit, I usually agree with her values (avoiding crowd mentality, being tolerant, solving problems non-violently) and the story is exciting enough anyways.
Lena screams, "I want to explore" and Doon yells, "No more war." The book lacks the interest and intrigue of the first book and instead becomes a poor peace call for the world.
Even the mystery that comes up in the song about the lost city lacks teeth, as they resolve its solution nearly immediately after it is posed.
Part of the fun of the first book was figuring out the cryptic message that led Lena and Doon out of Ember.
DuPrau misses that opportunity by not introducing the rhyme until half way through the book and then resolving it in the next chapter.
The kind of dystopia where people actually live with the consequences, instead of, you know, evolving into advanced societies with kings/queens/mutants/totalitarian governments that are obsessed with deathly competitions.
Everyone died and now centuries later, with a significant portion of the population and technology kaput, they are struggling to stay alive and trying to make small advances to regrow life.The City of Ember and The People of Sparks have the same tone and yet, different as well.
I liked the absence of it first but I'm starting to miss the teenage love drama.
There's a reason I like YA.
The weak writing, admittedly present in City of Ember, is more apparent here in the second book...and the story is a bit overbearing & heavyhanded with its message, at the expense of the story-unfolding...
I liked how City of Ember had electricity--and the post-Disaster village of Sparks had plenty of comforts and innovations that Emberites had never seen, but no electricity.I found a lot of the build-up of conflict (to set the stage for the peace message) between the People of Ember and People of Sparks pretty dull.
Before the last chapter I was thinking I was tired of these books, and probably could have done without reading the second.
Το δεύτερο βιβλίο της σειράς τελικά μου άρεσε λίγο περισσότερο απο το πρώτο, καθώς το βρήκα κάπως ωριμότερο, γεγονός που δεν περίμενα, διότι η πλοκή του δεν είναι τόσο πρωτότυπη όσο του πρώτου βιβλίου. Για άλλη μια φορά λοιπόν και σε αυτό, η Ντυπρό πραγματεύεται σημαντικά ζητήματα που αφορούν κάθε κοινωνιά -κι ας τα βασίζει σε φανταστικούς κόσμους- είναι γεμάτα ηθικοδιδακτικά μηνύματα, όπως το που οδηγεί η φοβία για το κάθε ξένο στοιχείο, και για την ομορφιά της υπομονής και της θέλησης. Ωραίο βιβλίο. Τέλειο για τις μικρότερες ηλικίες. 3,5 αστεράκια
There are two major problems with the book I think, first that it is far less original in feel and setting -- the postapocalyptic worlds of films like the "Mad Max" series, and countless SF novels from the past century aren't ever very far off; and second, the whole premise of the arguments between the two communities rests on the notion that the leaders of Sparks are arrogant and unwilling to speak with the Emberites as equals, or even really as other intelligent people.
In fact, through the entire first book, they had no knowledge of any other human culture at all and thought their microcosm to be the extent of humanity.The main new dynamic in the book acted as a commentary on the interactions between people in strained situations and the passions which lead to prejudice, anger, and eventually to war.
Instead, she finds disaster and learns about war, disease and destruction.Doon serves as the reader's guide to watching two struggling groups of people dealing with hardships and sacrifices as the Emberites are taught about life in the new world and how to survive above ground.
Because filling a YA book so full of morals and 'lessons' smacks of something a primary school teacher might do, hoping to impart some important values and life lessons into their students while at the same time getting them read.
These concerns fuel the people of Sparks' frustrations and feelings that the idea of having to share with the people of Ember is an unfair hardship.
At the same time the people of Ember feel unwanted by the people of Sparks and all these feelings of injustice lead to 'attacks' back and forth between the two groups.
Please tell me that if there really was a war that killed most of humanity, stupid people would not be left in charge...like they apparently were in The People of Sparks.
In the Sparks warehouse is a room with hundreds of books, which no one apparently uses or reads.
But, the people of Sparks are aware that before the Disaster, people had electricity, were capable of flight, had moving vehicles powered by "gasleen," etc.
I can't believe that it took a couple of Emberites to embrace the idea of organizing the volumes and that it never occured to the people of Sparks to utilize this massive resource.I enjoyed the people's mispronunciations of things, like "gasleen," and, my favorite, the area known as "Sanazy."
I was afraid after the ending of City of Ember, the next books will lose the fantastic, gripping aura the first book has.At least People of Sparks proved that I was wrong.
The world is healing; things start to get better, but the world is still almost empty of civilization, and destroyed, abandoned cities loom everywhere.
And how a small step of a human being can set changes toward the better.
Almost made me weep.People of Sparks is as depressing as the claustrophobic City of Ember, but at the end, there's always a glimmer of hope.
As a Middle school or Young Adult read it opens the door to a good discussion of the difficulties and rewards of politics, and there are some good life lessons, not the least being the idea that the only way to stop bad events from escalating, is to return good for bad and convince your opponent to stop the cycle of retaliation:“Can't it be stopped?" said Lina.
"If someone sees what's happening and is brave enough to reverse the direction.""Reverse the direction?"..."Yes, turn it around.""How would you do that?"..."You'd do something good," said Maddy.
"When people have been mean to you, why would you want to be good to them?""You wouldn't want to," said Maddy.
Being good is hard.
This book did a really good job of capturing the tensions involved in a refugee situation, especially one where there aren't enough resources to go around -- a better job, I think, than most adult books on the topic.
The ability to honestly tackle as a difficult an issue as humanely treating refugee populations -- showing how difficult it is, and at the same time showing a plausible path forward -- is not a common one, and the ability to do all that in the context of a genuinely entertaining book is even less so.
And I found the "lesson" of the story at times too heavy handed and simplistic.
I was mostly bothered that for even those who did not want to fight regarding the disagreement there didn't seem much understanding of the other side or awareness that they didn't have a right to expect a share in provisions others had worked for for themselves.I enjoyed the parts where Lina when off away from the town exploring better and found them more interesting.But overall kids who liked the first book will probably like it, and be interested in knowing what happened next.
I really enjoyed the simplified concepts of war in this book. It discussed how war begins and how to stop it before it goes to far. Choosing good is hard and even harder when we are physically or emotionally hurt by someone else. It made me think about making the right choices in tough situations. It's nice that you learn small bits about the "disaster" but that is not the focus of the book. I liked the way Lina and Doon both carried on through this book. They went there separate ways and came back together at the end.
خوب بود. خیلی قشنگ و ملموس چگونگی شکل گرفتن آشوب و جنگ رو نشون داده بود. شاید ساده بیان شده بود ولی واقعا ته اش به همین سادگی شروع می شه.یه نکته قشنگ دیگه اش حرف مدی بود که اعتقاد داشت حیات ، همیشه هست و اون کسی که حیات انسان و بقیه موجودات رو فراهم کرده خودش حافظ اون هست و نمی ذاره از بین بره. و این خارج از اراده آدمهاست
I highly recommend this series.
Pero The People of Sparks real, real, realmente me encantó.Primero: el simbolismoAunque el nombre de los libros lo hacen algo obvio no me había dado cuenta de lo simbólico que son los nombres de Ember y Sparks hasta que los leí en la misma oración cuando Lina esta pensando en ambas ciudades.
Sparks es chispa, lo que inicia el fuego.Amo cuando las cosas tienen significado.Ember, la ciudad de donde vienen los protagonistas es una ciudad agonizante, en sus últimos dias.
Tensión...Y créanme cuando les digo que lo que menos le hace falta a este libro es tensión.Segundo: los personajesNuestros intrépidos protagonistas Lina y Doon han llegado al mundo exterior y guiado a sus compañeros a un nuevo futuro.
I did like watching the people of Ember encounter the outside world for the first time, but I didn’t really feel the tension between the two groups.
I really love that DuPrau shows, in this book and The City of Ember, how hard it can be to do what is necessary.
I like that Lina struggles with helping the people of Sparks put out the fire, and I love the image of a single girl running across a smoky square to join the chaos and help a group with whom her people were about to do battle.For all the bad writing and plotting, I enjoyed the book and I’m glad it ended on a note of hope.
In this sequel to "The City of Ember", 400-odd Emberites leave their dying city for the outside world.
There, they find a village named Sparks, and ask for help.
The population of Sparks is only about 300, and is inclined to be suspicious of these strange, pallid, undersized people who seem to know nothing of the basics of life.
On the other side, the Emberites have difficulty coping with weather and have no experience of the hard manual labour involved in running a village without electricity.
But eventually - mostly thanks to Our Hero and Heroine - the difficulties are solved.I didn't enjoy this as much as I did "The City of Ember".
I really, really like this book.
I read The City of Ember years ago, and knew there were sequels, but hadn't gotten around to reading them.
While Ember explored fascinating ideas of equality and scarcity, The People of Sparks is a post-apocalyptic narrative in which the solution is not to take up arms and destroy the oppressors, (as in most YA of this genre) but for everyone to do the hard, sacrificial work of coming together to solve the problems of a troubled world.
them narratives, and particularly the presence of refugees is beautiful, and even prophetic.
This book was so much better than the first one.
I LOVE the main characters.
Lina and Doon they're just...
GOOD.
Good people.
They're brave with great morality.
I liked Kenny and Maddy's characters.
They were so wise and lovable.
Caspar seemed to me like a bad cartoon villain, twisting his mostache and laughing in a weird way.
He was a joke.
I HATED Torren.
At the end, after all that happened he didn't say thank you or sorry.
Love the journey that was this book.
The ending was exciting.
Really looking forward to reading more about the People of Sparks!
I like how this book in the series is a more complete story, as opposed to the first one.
Also, I like that this is a completely new adventure with the same characters from the first book, so that this book could stand alone on its own.
And, I like the messages of this book, although they seem a bit heavy handed at times.
The best image of all was the ending, which I won't give away in case people haven't read it yet, but it's a nice tie-in to the first book, as well as a simple symbol of hope for the future of the characters of this book, both the well-known ones from The City of Ember and the newly introduced characters.
I thought that this book wouldn't be half as good as the City of Ember, but I was wrong.
It had some great parts that explain how to end a war, and how a war is started.
I do believe that Lina is very ignorant and naive.
It was very touching though when Lina put ran to go help the people of Spark put out the fire, and one by one the others joined to help.
The overall book was wonderful and it has a lot to say about how war starts and the way to end it peacefully.
After rereading this book from last year I found how cleshay the book really was. I thought it would be as good even better the second time I read it.
Soon after the people of Ember left, they came upon a small village called Sparks.
The people could only stay for six months while the people of Sparks taught them all they could about building and running a town.
I really liked this book and when I first started it I read really far in because it just kept leading me into it.
That is one of the themes of the book because in the book they are forced to learn how to build a village of their own in order to have somewhere to stay.
In conclusion, I really enjoyed reading this book.
I wasn't expecting to read this, and I'm not sure how well it moves the story. But it does offer a nice explanation of hatred and bigotry.
The book The People of Sparks was very well thought out and detailed with many different twists and turns that you would never imagine.
Lina and Doon have emerged from the underground city to the exciting new world above, and it isn't long before they are followed by the other inhabitants of Ember.
The Emberites soon come across a town where they are welcomed, fed, and given places to sleep.
I believe that this book is very detailed as illustrated on page 197, "People didn't make life, so they can't destroy it.
The first book was an okay read.
I did like the world building, though.Because I intended to know what happens next, I picked the second book right away.
And going through the first part of the book I made a conclusion that I would like this better than the first.
And I did!The story follows right away from where the first book left.
The pacing in this book was better, in my opinion.
What I liked the most is how this book reflects the societal problems that we actually can relate to.
