https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34601.Snow_Treasure
Based on a true story, this World War II novel would be considered historical fiction now, but when it was published, it was about an incident that occurred just two years before.
Alan Bern of Berkeley Public Library mentioned that Shadow of the Mountain would appeal to those who read Snow Treasure, which is still popular at his library.
Although these two books are based on actual events, they describe different missions that took place in Norway.
If you have tweens seeking out adventure books, or books set during World War II, Snow Treasure is a great book to recommend.
The story: As Nazi Germans begin to occupy Norway in the winter of 1940, leaders in the town of Riswyk fear that the enemy will gets its hands on the gold bullion — tens of millions of kroners' worth — that make up the financial foundation of the nation.
And they hit upon a brilliant way to put that plan in motion — by using kids on sleds to transport the gold bricks, a few at a time, under the guise of being at carefree play.
Naturally I grabbed it!(This, incidentally, is why Amazon.com will never replace the experience of browsing in a good used-book shop.)My son and I are still reading Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, and he's also reading the Diary of a Wimpy Kid books on his own, so I decided to re-read Snow Treasure on my own, first.It's the story of Norwegian children during the Nazi occupation.
And the story of how children in Norway help to smuggle Norway's gold away from the invading Nazis makes for a memorable, exciting tale.I'll admit, as I re-read the few few chapters I did fear that it might turn out to be worse than my memory of it.
I loved the way the children were able to outwit the German soldiers, but I also appreciated that it wasn't the kind of book where the children do everything and figure everything out by themselves.
Peter: "Let's all swear that we'll never tell the Germans what we're doing." His friends: "We already promised not to talk to them at all." Peter: "Let's swear anyway.
And even though we didn't get much characterization on anyone, I liked the way that not all of the German soldiers were painted with the same brush.
One of my childhood favorites enjoyed anew with my son, who loved it as much as I did at his age.
This is possibly the first book I ever read about World War II. It's funny and exciting, and the kids are heroes in a realistic way. My fourth grade class read it, a couple of years later, and I remember that both boys and girls really enjoyed it.
This was a delightful, interesting story. I read this one with my Madison (14) who hung on each word. 🤗
So the children go out to sled every day - with a final total of 9 million dollars on their sleds!But there are difficulties.Nosy German soldiers.Thawing April weather.The fear of Uncle Victor being discovered and arrested, wherever he is hiding, before all of the gold can be loaded onto his boat.The fear of one or all of the children being taken prisoner themselves.And the children themselves - can they keep it up, under the strain of time, weight and worry?The book is not a perfect literary gem, but the writing is compelling and amusing; and while easy for the younger ones to understand, still makes a great read for an adult interested in World War II.Based on a true account told by a Norwegian captain who brought 9 million dollars in gold bullion to an American port.
I read this out loud to my kids and it was a intriguing adventure story based on a potentially true event during WW2 in Norway and the rescue of gold through the sleds of children. We all loved it and were inspired by the courage and perseverance of the children in this story.
My childhood favorite! Brilliant story of children bravely resisting their Nazi occupiers in a winter wonderland.
Nazi’s have come to the Norwegian town and the Norwegian people are trying to get the gold out of their town before the Germans can find it.
So they decide to sneak the gold past the soldiers.
The children put a little bit of gold on their sleds at a time and go sledding right past the Nazi’s.
Then they bury the gold and build a snowman on top.
The children do this for days on end but it doesn’t seem suspicious to the soldiers because it’s a bunch of kids sledding and building snowmen.This is definitely a great book.
But just before their arrival;, Peter Lundstrom, 12 almost 13, knows that something is up among the adults in Riswyk.His father, a banker, and Uncle Victor, a fisherman, and other townsmen have devised a plan to get Norway's gold out of the country and to America so that it never falls into the hands of the Nazis.
He was forced into a Nazi uniform, but really just wants to go with Uncle Victor to America.But the next day, the Nazis are out looking for him and when the children refuse to answer any of their questions, the commandant gets angry and is just about to discover Lovisa's buried gold when Peter hits him in the ear with a snowball.
RTC.
In my heart and mind, this remains a story of the strength and courage of the Norwegian people, even the children, in the face of the Nazis.
Uncle Victor and the adults of the town may have devised the plans, but the children carried them out, having to face the Nazis on a daily basis.Whether or not the story is true, I'd recommend it to any young reader as an adventure story filled with danger.
Seventy-two years after it first came out, Marie McSwigan's Snow Treasure remains an exciting adventure story.
A wonderful, exciting story! Very refreshing to hear a children's book again. :) I loved that for the most part this is a true story. Children going right under the noses of the Nazi guards taking all the country's gold(worth millions) out of the country. Such a good story!!
A book I had read as a child.
I assigned it to my students for their Book Club...but as I met to discuss with them, I couldn't remember enough of the book to make intelligent comments and as I was grading their assignments I was clueless.
So I decided I needed to re-read the book.3.5 stars.
This is a fun and engaging WWII fiction story.
The story teaches kids about courage and loyalty and doing hard things.
I still really liked it and would recommend it to 4th grade and up, but not something I would read over and over again.
My sixth grade teacher read us this book. I loved it and could hardly wait for our after lunch reading time to find out what happened next. I read it many, many times after that and have read it to my children. A great story!
My first novel!
Wonderful story based on a true story of WWII. I read this to my children and they loved it also.
There is some question about what historically happened and whether children were ever really involved in using their sleds to help move gold bricks to a ship which could safely transport the wealth out of Norway.
But we do know that the story captures the courage of many children who, caught up in war, have helped their countries in times of great danger.” ***There is a 1968 Snow Treasure film based on the 1942 book.
I liked it!
I mean, what child wouldn't thrill of hearing about a child hero that had to hide gold bullion from the German soldiers in their sled and race down a mountain.
And there really was gold bullion that had to be smuggled out of Norway by the Norwegians so that Germany wouldn't get it.Ages: 7+Cleanliness: "Gee whiz" "stupid" "thank the merciful heavens" are said.
**Like my reviews?
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
A book I’m currently reading made me remember this book that I read in elementary school, so I had to track it down.
Snow Treasure takes place during the beginning of WW11. It is in Norway and it takes place right after Germany invaded Poland. Peter a young boy that is twelve, lives in Norway with his mom, dad, younger ten year old sister, and his friends. He has a normal everyday life like every other 12 year old boy. One winter he was playing in the snow with his friends Michael and Helga, and his younger sister, Lovisa. He saw his Uncle Victor which was weird, because Victor usually only came when the snow
Then the next day, Uncle Victor told Peter about how the Norwegians had 9 million american dollars in gold that Peter and his friends would have to sneak to the Snake, (which is a small river that flows into a bigger pool of water), in the event the Germans would attack Norway, so that Victor could smuggle the gold into his ship and sail away to America so the gold would be safe.
The next trip he went on the German soldier came out while Peter was burying his gold in the snow.
His father is a banker and is working with other leaders in the town to try and outwit the Nazis by smuggling the country’s gold bullion to a safe place.
The plan depends on Peter and the other children taking the gold from the top of the mountains to the fjord below.
Sledding the gold away seems like it will be easy at first, but the German soldiers are not to be underestimated.
I learned a lot about what life was like in Norway during the war and I definitely hope to visit one day.
"Beat you to the turn!" Peter Lundstrom shot his sled down the long steep slope.- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -That's how the book begins, with a small bunch of carefree schoolchildren, sledding down the snowy hills.
Little do they know, but soon they will be risking their lives to do more sledding.
It's World War II and the German Nazis have made a camp right outside of the little town in Norway, where all the children and their families live.
This is a delightful book to read!
The fact that it has stuck with me all that time is an endorsement in itself, for I had not read it for several decades at least and yet I remembered it well enough to purchase it for my son.At the dawn of World War II, a courageous band of Norwegian villagers is faced with a dilemma: how can they move their country's gold out of reach of the Nazis?
But these particular kids travel every sledding trip lying atop stacks of gold bricks, whizzing past Nazi sentries on their way to their secret drop-off location.
The book "Snow Treasure" by Marie McSwigan is a historical-fiction book about a boy named Peter that had to save his country of Norway because the Germans were invading them.
Peter, his friend Michael, and other kids in their school have to hide all of Norway's gold so that his uncle Victor can store it in a safe place from the Germans.
Will Peter and his friends succeed in burying the gold so the Germans can't find it?I picked this book up because it looked very interesting.
"Snow Treasure" unravels the heroic story of a group of school children during the Nazi occupation of Norway of WWII.
The children haul the bricks of bullion tied on their sleds.
On daily encounters with the German soldiers they risk having their true mission being revealed.The novel is based on the report of the Bomma a Norwegian ship that arrived in the United States bearing $9 million dollars of gold bullion ferreted out of Norway.
The captain insisted that the gold was hauled by the children.
The story is believed to be true but has not been proven.
In the bleak winter of 19 0, Nazi troops parachuted into Peter Lindstrom's tiny Norwegian village and held it captive.
It meant risking their coun...moreIn the bleak winter of 19 0, Nazi troops parachuted into Peter Lindstrom's tiny Norwegian village and held it captive.
Nobody thought the Nazis could be defeated--until Uncle Victor told Peter how the children could fool the enemy.
They had to slip past Nazi guards with nine million dollars in gold hidden on their sleds.
They had to slip past Nazi guards with nine million dollars in gold hidden on their sleds.
It meant risking their country's treasure--and their lives.
This book is the story of Norwegian children moving by sled the treasure of their town's gold to a ship sailing to the U.S. for safekeeping during the Nazi occupation of Norway. Written for children it is never the less a worthwhile read for anyone interested in this era and gives insight into the bavery of children and townspeople who risked their lives to resist the tyranny of the Nazis who occupied their beloved Norway. It is based on fact with a few changes in detail to protect those involved in the effort as it was first published in 1942.
