https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3834.Innocent_Blood
Well-written and engaging, Innocent Blood is one of those books in which you can't like any of the main characters, the word, reptilian, comes to mind to describe Phillipa and Maurice (adopted daughter and father). The innocent of the title is a raped and murdered 12 year old girl, Julie. The murder took place a decade ago and the book deals with the lies and distortions that come with this heinous act.
who hasn't imagined that they were actually a child of mysterious fortune or an heir to a legacy of romantic adventure?
essentially a slow-burning psychological mystery depicting the uncomfortable dance between a murderess, her daughter, and a victim's vengeful father; not a whodunit, but rather a what-will-happen-next.
the murderess is a fascinatingly blank character, pathetic and threatening and mysterious, both predator and prey.
the mystery is all in the motivation and never in the atmosphere - the latter of which is firmly grounded in prosaic, kitchen sink reality, per usual for James.
Over the last year or so, I have met a wide variety of people who like knitting - not least the ferocious and redoubtable knitters of CERN, one of whom was even featured on a recent Swiss TV program.
So, although I do not knit myself, I have come to develop some appreciation of the joy and heartbreak it can bring people.This book is one that I would advise knitters to approach with great caution.
Suppose there were a person you had thought about every day for many years, and longed desperately to meet.
Suppose, by some extraordinary chance, that you were suddenly granted an opportunity to meet that person.
Her mother is due to be released from prison shortly, and Philippa - like any other normal daughter - decides she must take a flat with her murderess mother and live with her until it's time to go to university.
At the same time, Julie's father Norman, (view spoiler)[keeping a promise to his dead wife, plots the murder of Philippa's mother (Julie's killer) (hide spoiler)].You will not understand why Philippa's mother murdered a 12-year-old girl.
Things I learned from this book:1) It is  always  the fault of the child for getting raped - for being stupid, you know. Or for taking the wrong route. 2) You are supposed to like, empathise with and feel sorry for child murderers.3) If your husband rapes a little girl, your immediate response should be to give him brandy, murder the girl, and try to protect your husband. Because strength.4) The poor, poor men rape because they are looking for love and gentleness. 5) Child rape is really okay. I
the fault of the child for getting raped - for being stupid, you know.
2) You are supposed to like, empathise with and feel sorry for child murderers.3) If your husband rapes a little girl, your immediate response should be to give him brandy, murder the girl, and try to protect your husband.
They are worthy of love and respect.10) People don't need to feel passion, anger, despair to take revenge on someone.
No one cares.2) Scase following them about all over the place, endlessly planning a murder of two most unpleasant people.
In this book, I could not care about anything, and couldn't care less whether Scase gets to murder them or not.
And unfortunately, mostly in a bad way.I expected a thriller, a crime story.
And these kind of books are rather on the edge of my comfort zone, and not in a good way.
There are some parts of the book that I really liked.But then, there are all those pages I find completely boring.
And there is no really good reason for that, I could live without the detailed report on every building, every street and every meaningless action of the character.
The books drags through pages.
However, I can totally imagine other readers truly enjoying this complicated psychologically story.
It didn't help that Penelope Dellaporta read the audio in a sing-song voice like a bored, upper class, English school girl.Philippa Palfrey, the adopted daughter of Maurice and Hilda Palfrey, uses the Children Act, a British law (and the name of an Ian McEwan novel) to find her birth mother.
(view spoiler)[ Her birth mother, Mary Dacton, strangled a child, Julie Scase, after Philippa's birth father, a pederast, had raped the girl.
Towards the end of the book, they sleep together, even though Maurice is still married to Hilda, Philippa's adoptive mother.
Phillipa was annoyingly whiny having ultimately had such a privileged upbringing and her adopted father was an asshole of the highest order.Her mother, the child murderer, is portrayed sympathetically.
Lots of references are made to how the child wouldn't have been raped by Phillipa's father and subsequently murdered by Phillipa's mother if the child had gone a different way home or hadn't made such a fuss about being sexually assaulted or hadn't been so naive.
This book has an interesting premise. The main character, adopted and raised by a well-to-do family, discovers that her origins are not as she has fantasised, but much, much bleaker. (view spoiler)[ Her natural father and mother raped and killed a child. What would happen if such a person, still only 17, decided to track down her mother? And what would then happen if the murdered child's father had the same idea at the same point? (hide spoiler)]This is a page-turner. One of P D James' earlier n
The main character, adopted and raised by a well-to-do family, discovers that her origins are not as she has fantasised, but much, much bleaker.
(view spoiler)[ Her natural father and mother raped and killed a child.
And what would then happen if the murdered child's father had the same idea at the same point?
One of P D James' earlier novels from 1978, it is not so much in the mystery genre, more a psychological drama.
The setting is mostly urban, the characters nicely depicted and contrasted, and the story unfolds in a satisfying way.
A few hallmark James twists ensure that the reader will not guess the ending.
A young adopted woman applies to find out who her parents were, and gets more than she bargained for.The ending paid off, but it was a bit of a slog to get there. There are a lot of layers to the truth, is the main story here. The cynicism and political two by fours are tiresome, and in the end it's a polemical book. And yet that ending...
Innocent Blood tells the story of Philippa Palfrey, an 18 year old who was adopted at age 8.
I loved this book from start to finish.
It's a psychological story of human nature, revenge and relationships.
The characters are well built, although not entirely likeable, and the plot is slow-moving, but in a good way.
Her command of the English language is excellent and she uses it to perfection in this book.
This is one I would definitely recommend to anyone who likes a good plot and engaging characters.
This is an odd and disturbing book.
Of ccourse the story is not exactly a light one, but I found the lengthy descriptive passages a bit heavy handed, as if she were writing a guidebook to the streets of London for depressives.
Even in the passages where she relects joy in her characters she makes it clear that it is a rare moment, not expected to be repeated.
There were points in the book where I skipped whole paragraphs of description, because I felt they were interfering with the plot.
Her characters are finely drawn, and their struggles with life well rendered.
This thriller reveals P D James to (possibly) have some particularly unpleasant victim blaming beliefs - it appearing to be the fault of victims and their parents when rape and murder is committed.
I wish I had not read this book.
I've always had problems with her right wing (Conservative) politics and contempt for working class people but have tolerated this for the sake of her excellent plotting, but this novel (together with the transparent plot of The Lighthouse and the truly awful Death at Pemberley) has 'killed' PD James for me.
Philippa Palfry comes of age and seeks to find her biological mother having been adopted. Having lead a privileged lifestyle she is going up to Cambridge and wants to be a writer. The trail leads her to murder and mystery where she finds that her may not be all the she hopes. Overlapping this is Norman Scase who is on the trail of revenge. Lots of emotion and soul searching and the twists expected of a P.D.James novel Perhaps just a little predictable and therefore a 3 and not 4 stars.
I found Philippa's obsession to find her birth parents and to find out what truly happened to be very interesting.
Maurice was plain pathetic, and rationalizes his love for his adoptive daughter as 'You are not my biological daughter, so it isn't exactly incest/a crime'.Then there is the fact that Philippa ignores the fact that her mother murdered a child that her husband (Philippa's father) had raped.
I don't want an explicit telling of what exactly happened to this girl, but at the very least, I wanted to know how this crime affected Philippa.
But Innocent Blood isn't a typical mystery; it's more of a suspense thriller and a psychological study of several people whose lives intersect in Philippa Palfrey.
Philippa has been adopted by Maurice and Hilda Palfrey, but she wants to find out who her real parents are, so she applies to find out after her 18th birthday.
James writes with understated prose, leaking out the secrets one at a time over the course of the book, until the climax.
I would encourage you to read P.D. James, particularly Children of Men, another non-mystery but another 5 star book.
Psychological mystery about a young woman, adopted, who traces her parents and finds that they murdered a child.
There is more going on that she doesn’t know.This is a great, suspenseful thriller but I have to say that the emotions of many of the characters are really weird and don't make a lot of sense.
The ending, emotion-wise, was a mess that strained credulity, and I'm not talking about the sex.
Because of this I gave it 3 stars, down from 5 midway through.Oh yeah there is a carefully knitted, meaningfully given sweater that is destroyed in a fit of anger which bothered me more than the child murder.
This is a novel about Philippa Palfrey's search for her birth parents, and about the betrayals yet to come, once she has found her mother and moved in with her.
It is understandable that a lot of adopted children are curious about their actual identity and heritage (including yours truely, being an adopted child myself, with still a few questions I will probably never get answered), but sometimes it may be a good idea to let the sleeping dogs lie and not to pry too deep into the past.
Also, there rises the question of possible motives driving one's adoptive parents.
D. James tiene una habilidad que le permite manejar la estructura narrativa y la focalización de los personajes para crear interés, pero tengo que reconocer que hay momentos de esta novela que me han molestado gravemente, por su escasa repercusión en el conjunto de la novela.
Sin embargo, no se puede negar que en la tercera parte de la novela todo fluye de manera mucho más concienzuda y es entonces cuando el juego de focalizaciones (saltando de Philippa a Maurice y a Scase) logra su mayor efectividad narrativa.
This is the second PD James I've read. As a murder mystery, it's above average. It's also an exploration of what forgiveness means or is, in the context of a child murder. As with real life, it's incredibly messy, not least in the ending. So, it wasn't a pleasant read (hence the 3 star rating), but rather a grim depiction of reality slamming into fantasy. I have a feeling this story is necessary to understand PD James' stories (in addition to which, Ken Myers has mentioned that this book marked a turning point in her novels becoming more serious).
The endings are supposed to be thrilling, but are more often mindless, such as: otherwise intelligent girl having heard noises must go down unarmed into dark cellar and be rescued from ultimate horror by savvy police detective.
Said detective is usually this poet-cop, Dalgleish, whose angsty ruminations and above-it-all manner I find intrusive and irritating.But Innocent Blood is not like that.
The heroine, Philippa Palfrey, an adoptee who is searching for her real parents, is young and rather savvy, despite a sheltered upbringing.
His and Philippa's lives are inextricably entwined, and we follow them, step by harrowing step, to the ultimate confrontation.
I have been collecting quietly PD James novels, but time and other books took priority.
So finally I read my first PD James novel.
I decided Innocent Blood would be my first read.
PD James is an amazing writer.
This is not just a Murder Mystery that I was accustomed to reading.
This book addresses the issues of adoption, families by blood lines and a lot more.
Now I understand why PD James has such a large following, she writers much deeper than what I have been accustomed from a murder mystery novel.
She is a philosopher, a psychologist and a detective all at the same time.
Wish we could award half stars - liked the writing, but the story dragged in places.
James as always did a great job setting the scene, describing locations, and helping the reader to picture the characters.
She writes in what I consider a typically "English" way, evoking a totally different atmosphere from the usual crime novel.
While this book did not engage the reader in solving a crime, it did engage me in a coming of age tale about an adopted child and in the psychological development of a man seeking revenge.
A stand-alone psychological study that is well worth reading, despite its gray atmosphere.
This book left a bad taste in my mouth...I really like James' work and her descriptive skills are almost without peer. But, the story line here is distasteful and certain aspects of the denouement seemed to be tacked on as an after-thought. Certainly not one of my favorite book by one of my favorite British authors.
And you know by reading this book what "truly loving another" is and is not.
I nearly was knocked over when James' brought into the story the only true picture of love.
In a world where atheism is a fast growing religion among our young, this book shows where that leads.
The book also shows what happens to a life bent on revenge.
The only deep change is through faith and belief in God. This quick and short message comes into the story from the most unlikely voice and it is so mixed with contradictions that you are left to wonder at it.But my question is where do we treat these issues that show how foul and repugnant sin is?
Καλογραμμένο ψυχολογικό θρίλερ - αν και με στιγμές εκνευριστικά περίτεχνων και λεπτοδουλεμένων περιγραφών - με ενδιαφέρον και ιντριγκαδόρικο θέμα και θαυμάσια, αναπάντεχη κορύφωση
And, now I think on it, both books have a distant mother who shows her love for her child via knitting and not much else.James did not write so very many books that I thought it necessary to repeat so many elements.
In neither case did I think the heroine's efforts to cover up the murder made a whole lot of sense, although I suppose it could be argued in this one that the heroine identified with the murderer because in her heart she'd wanted to murder the victim as well -- for reasons I thought shallow and stupid....
It was read flawlessly by Michael Jayston and came from Chivers Audio Books.:]A suspenseful tale of murder, rape, revenge and (I believe, above all) personal growth, PD James’ “Innocent Blood” artfully navigates one of my favorite territories: the physical and psychosocial geography of England – from the grottiest of urban dives with shifty-eyed denizens, to the sadly middle-class suburbs, to the self-conscious upper-middle class districts of the well-educated and gratuitously politicized.
Philippa's parents got unlucky, we are told, because their victim was such a pushover and not, like one of their colleagues in the fish and chip shop, someone who would have cheerfully moved on after being sexually molested.
Both kind of amazing and objectionable: Philippa doesn’t seem credible as a seventeen-year-old, even a precocious, Cambridge-bound one.
One of the things I liked best about the book was her enjoyment of art and literature, which reminded me of Cordelia Grey, another character of James's.
The main character is 18 and planning to go to university (it's a British novel, after all!) as this story occurs.I liked it a great deal; I kept going back to see what was going to happen.
And you could read this novel as a study in that complex relationship between parent (real, adoptive, or purported) and child, which seems to be the main theme of this book, as it was in My Abandonment and My Name Is Lucy Barton.
It was also a tremendous emotional relief to see at last the humanity of the story's characters.
