https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/202948.Ladder_of_Years
While her family reprimand her for bothering them with phone messages that Delia realizes are at least a week old, her thoughts turn to Adrian, to something new.She took to stepping into the yard several times a day.
Shepherding her family into the car for a Sunday visit to Sam's mother, she moved fluidly, like an actress or a dancer conscious of every minute of being watched.But if someone really had been watching, think of what he would see: the ragged disarray of Delia's home life.
Most of us have thought about walking away from our lives and to start over, or wondered what life would be like if we were someone else.
The protagonist, Delia, is a stranger to both her family and herself, which results in a painful quest to find what is missing.This novel runs the gamut of being quirky and humorous to being downright depressing and dark.
What Delia does, and how her family responds, is just.
Stirs her pot and summons some of our greatest literary explorations of "what happens when Mother leaves the family." Other stories that can't help but come to mind: Kate Chopin's The Awakening, Tolstoy's Anna Karenina, and, more recently, Michael Cunningham's The Hours.When Mother leaves, things fall apart.
When I pick up an Anne Tyler book I know what I am getting into, but still at times I find myself surprised by things.
I appreciate that you can imagine all of her characters living in the same world, since they all do live in Baltimore (at least in the novels of hers I've read thus far).What I liked about this one was how I was never sure who to sympathize with—Delia or her family?
But her stories are so smoothly told, I never pay attention to the fact that I am reading because I am so absorbed by the interior lives of her characters.
Along the way we develop an understanding of our characters and start to sympathise with them and even worry about them.Our main character in this book is Delia, an average middle aged house wife who one day just keeps walking away from her life.
It is an intriguing idea that one could just walk off and start somewhere fresh with a whole different lifestyle and different people.
Of course there are repercussions and people are hurt along the way.
The ending was the opposite of what I had been hoping for but it was true to life and not hopelessly romantic.Quite a long book but very easy to read and very hard to put down.
Tyler was the quintessential “post-modernist.” Maybe I was just old fashioned, but I started needing more weight, more "meaning."I got all the way to the end of "Ladder of Years" and [SPOILER ALERT!] when Delia returned to her husband, I did not see it coming.
It didn't matter whether Delia ended up staying with her husband Sam or returning to her new life with Joel.
You pretend like everything’s normal, you’re so cagey and smooth; you gloss things over; you don’t explain.” But I still don't see her point.)Anne Tyler’s books are pleasant enough and she is a very skillful writer, with great descriptions that bring a world to life, but too often for me they read like cartoons.
Anne Tyler is my go-to author for easy, enjoyable fiction.
I don't do chick lit or romance novels, so Anne Tyler is my vacation reading.
(Side note: About 8 years ago, I decided I could make my fortune writing romance novels.
I made it about a third of the way through before chucking the book, and my lucrative writing career, in the trash.)Back to Ann Tyler.
I think all of her books are good; Ladder of Years just happens to be the one I read most recently.
It keeps you engaged and interested, nothing horrible happens, and the ending was satisfying without being predictable.
This critical flash of insight, a culmination of all that's gone before, is a hallmark of Tyler's novels.
I kept waiting for it in this novel, but Tyler stood me up.
This is the only novel by Tyler I don't recommend to people.
If you're a big Anne Tyler fan and have a passion to read absolutely every one of her books, then get this one from the public library.
If you've never read Tyler, Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant or The Accidental Tourist are much better works.The only book I ever bought on a business trip, then threw in the trash!
There are many wonderful secondary characters: Delia’s first employer, Ezekiel Pomfret, an attorney who’s constantly tinkering with his new computer; Belle, her landlady, who has a penchant for married men; Eleanor, her penny-pinching mother-in-law, who turns out to be her most faithful and thoughtful correspondent in her new life; and the Miller family, for whom she becomes a housekeeper – language stickler and high school principal Joel, 12-year-old son Noah, estranged wife Ellie, who left the family to become a weather presenter, and her father Nat, who in his sixties is starting a whole new life with a young woman he met at the gift shop of his retirement home.Sam is less weedy than your average Tyler man, though Nat is by far the book’s strongest male character, and also gets two of the key lines: the title phrase and “time trip” are his descriptions for what life is like.
So, I dragged through the plot, which sent the main character to start an anonymous life in a new town and abandoning her children, to find something interesting (because I read Tyler's When We Were Grownups and I remember liking it, so I thought that there must be a pearl in this book, too).
The pearl presented itself about 5 pages before the end, in this observation by a sagely grandfather who was the first to sit at a table set for twelve people and was in the throes of looking back at his life with regret: "'There's a picture I'm reminded of that [C.
I love all of Anne Tyler's stories.
In this novel, we get to meet Delia, a 40-year-old woman who all of a sudden decides to leave her family because she's had enough.
She wasn't planning on leaving; she just happened to do so on the family's yearly trip to the beach.
As per usual, Anne Tyler writes strikingly about family life and everyday problems.
That's why this book of Tyler's didn't fascinate me as much as some of her other novels.
But all in all, a very enjoyable read that was easy and funny to get through and that gave me the safe and reassuring feelings that I always get from Anne Tyler's works.
I thought maybe this book would be different from Tyler's others. I guess I'm just not that into her. It's me... I think!!
"Baltimore Woman Disappears During Family Vacation" declares the newspaper headline.
However, for Delia, who feels like a tiny gnat buzzing around the edge of her own family, "walking away from it all" is not a premeditated act but an impulse that will lead her into a new, exciting and unencumbered life.
In a nearby town, Delia reinvents herself - getting her first job, finding her first place, and buying her first business suit.
However, soon after Delia begins her exciting, unencumbered life, fresh responsibilities inevitably accumulate.I really enjoyed this story.
I give this book an A+!
and look forward to reading more books by Anne Tyler.
I've held this up in my mind, mentally referred to it, fondly remembered it for many years and this summer returned to it for a re-read. Happy to say it absolutely lived up to the memory, was just what I needed right now, and I had actually forgotten one wonderful aspect-which is just what a good writer Anne Tyler is. Such beautifully crafted sentences, such thoughtful word choices. There's something about this book that goes straight to my heart.http://sarahsbookjournal.wordpress.co...
Another great book by Anne Tyler that I thoroughly enjoyed.
The idea of a woman walking out on her family might struck absurd to some but reading about Delia's life, I did not find this very idea offending at all.
What I love about Tyler's writing is that it's very real - she not only captures just the high level feelings and some major parts of life but even the every day mundane thoughts or events.
Overall a great good-feel book.
If you are an Anne Tyler fan, like me, you should definitely read it and in case you are not, you should anyways try it because this book will make you smile....often.
While I understand that what may seem like a simple infraction to some can be the straw that breaks the camel's back for another, Tyler failed to convince me that Delia was THAT angry.
I kept feeling like the author just rushed through the writing of this book to get it finished.There were also a series of improbable meetings (prior to "the big flee") of characters that I felt were just a little beaucoup too convenient.
I wasn't very interested in this character and couldn't find myself caring either way.
Recommended to me as I was reading her latest A Spool of Blue Thread, a line that reappears in Ladder of Years even though it was written many years before.Delia goes for a walk while on holiday with her family and walks right out of their life.
Where she ends up, she begins to create another life, another version of herself, someone she has perhaps long wished to discover, the free woman, whom she never was before.Along the way people she meets share their thoughts, circumstances, invitations and opinions, and they are often a reflection of Delia's own thoughts or what we perceive she may think about that which she has left.
My complete review here at Word by Word.
Le trame si ripetono, l'immaginazione è originale. In questo libro la protagonista prova a cambiare vita, ci riesce sì e no. Resta l'immaginazione, che è una realtà che sappiamo solo noi.
I loved the premise: a woman—loving wife, devoted mom to three mostly grown kids, and all-around "good girl"—simply walks away from her family and her life and starts anew elsewhere.
I think there are probably many, many women living a similar family dynamic who might fantasize about this kind of do-over, even if they never actually walk out the door, or as Delia Grinstead does here, down the beach away from the annual family vacation.But Tyler lost me.
I just wanted to understand it more, understand how she came to walk away, especially from her children.
I often find myself empathising with characters in novels, but it is rare that I can so completely identify with one in the same way as I did with Delia Grinstead in Anne Tyler's Ladder Of Years.
I loved both her emotional journey and also the detailed description of her actual journey from Baltimore to Bay Borough, the ideal anonymous small town on arrival and, of course, soon discovered to be anything but.All the characters in Ladder Of Years are superbly drawn and my favourites, other than Delia herself, were Iron Mama Eleanor who perhaps wasn't such a paragon as she had forced herself to appear, and Carroll, the model of teenage angst.
I believe I read this book right before Jesse and I got married.
It was a long time ago.I got it as a book club selection and fell in love instantly.
There is something romantic about just quietly walking off one day, leaving it all behind to start anew.
Hmmm do I have abandonment issues?I read this book at least once a year.
It has become a super quick read for me and whenever I find a copy at a used bookstore (my favorite type of bookstore!) I pick up a copy to give to a woman I know and love.
In reality though, the parochial Baltimore setting has changed little and nor has Tyler's writing dated in the last twenty three years.I feel a bit conflicted.
There’s nothing wrong with writing about middle life, and small community America in the twentieth century.
What it is to re-invent yourself, and to break free from just doing what is expected.In large part Ladder of Years captures this feeling and the reader is pulled along a path of carefree, impetuous abandon.I cannot bring myself to describe this Tyler as great literature, nor great story telling, though.
This gorgeous book is my first Anne Tyler, it's about a woman who walks away from her husband and adolescent children and starts a new life in a small town.
I love the way Anne Tyler writes, very detailed descriptions bubbling with metaphor that bring a small town, a city, two families, and even two cats vividly to life.
I think perhaps the book is about how in life we bumble along, sometimes marrying and having children without really knowing why, also ultimately about the beauty of the role of wife and mother.
Well, I'm halfway through, and am actually involved; but, despite liking Anne Tyler a lot in the past (I couldn't wait to get back to her), I find this book very disappointing.
I also don't like the main character much.I think I'm involved because I like her escape.
What was the meaning of Nat coming back?And she doesn't make sense of why the character chooses what she did.
It pissed me off and I can't wait to start reading another book so as to clear out its twisted logic and supposed meanings.
This book made me never want to get married, and never have kids.
This was a light and enjoyable read.
Delia is a 40-year-old Desperate Housewife of sorts who, fueled by some serious middle-age angst, abandons her family to finally discover the kind of person she wants to be.
I found myself cheering Delia on while scoffing at her unbelievably sheltered, flighty, and childlike persona.
As a twenty-something graduate student, settling down to have my first of four children at age 19 and never pursuing a career is the stuff of my nightmares.
I'm pretty sure the story is meant to take place in the early to mid-90s, but everything reads as so dated and quaint.
Delia herself seems to be living in the '50s.
The protagonist in Ladder of Years leaves her family - just wanders down the beach - on day, sure that they won't care, and that they probably won't notice for days.
The characters are well-developed over time, and described in an amusing tone of voice.
I particularly appreciated how the protagonist comes to terms with herself as a person, after many years of seeing herself as an extension of others: her father's receptionist, her husband's wife, the mother of three.
This was my second reading of this book, and this time, I upgraded from 4 stars to 5 stars.
I've had this book for over ten years and just now have gotten around to reading it.
It's been a long time since I've read Anne Tyler, and I thoroughly enjoyed Ladder of Years.
I hope women today go into marriage with a little more sense and self-assurance than in the day of our protagonist, Delia, but I think there is still a lot we can learn from this story.
She learns a lot on the way.
It's not a bad lesson for us all, but I don't think we have to run away from home to do it.
My first Anne Tyler book...the one that got me hooked with reading her books. I read this when I was about the same age as Delia. I thought, "Wow! She did what a lot of married women think about doing but don't have the nerve to do." How many women feel unappreciated by her family like she does?
:-) she had me at a five star rating-Loved this book-Until the last 3 pages with a Disney ending.I 'll just pretend they did not happen ;-) !
“See, I’ve always pictured life as one of those ladders you find on playground sliding boards - a sort of ladder of years where you climb higher and higher, and then, oops!, you fall over the edge and others move up behind you.” Delia is the main character in the book, a 40 year old housewife married to a Doctor who sees patients out of their residence, and who has three children on the brink of leaving the nest.
