https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77810.The_Days_of_Abandonment
What happens when a person’s domestic life with spouse and children, their entire personal existence, cracks like a bottle of wine and spills all over the floor? The Days of Abandonment happens.The atmosphere of this book is far more powerful than the sum of each of its words. The shape of the telling fits the theme perfectly, and the honesty of Olga, the narrator, allows the reader to share in her experience,  to look through every line, to gaze downward and feel the vertigo of the depths, the
The Days of Abandonment happens.The atmosphere of this book is far more powerful than the sum of each of its words.
The blurbs from the Italian Press given on the gr page for this book mention only the first sense, being abandoned by the spouse but I suspect Ferrante has chosen her title well.Abandonment is not a word that many of us might use easily when speaking of the break up of a family.
Ferrante's book is essentially something you feel more than you actually read and that's why her writing reminds me of Frida Kahlo’s paintings.
Elena is called Olga in this novel and is the woman from hell.
This novel should have been a comedy – it realises this a couple of times and then it’s very funny.
If Olga lets her dog off the leash you know something bad is going to happen to the dog.
Except the high-minded self-indulgent prose rarely recognises the necessity of digging out the comedy in melodrama.
You end up thinking maybe your original enthusiasm was misplaced.
I’m not going to read any more of the early Ferrante novels.
Sometimes I just couldn’t hear them in the spate of events and other protagonists.Otherwise  The days of abandonment.
Olga, well-groomed, happy wife and mother of two, all of a sudden finds herself abandoned and excluded from previous life.
To escape that state, pick up the pieces, relearn life, rename things, define anew what really counts is as painful as previous falling into darkness and disintegration.
Almodovar's "Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown" + Margaret Atwood's terrific uberfeminist two first novels + Charlotte Perkins Gilman's short story avatar heroine from The Yellow Wallpaper = THIS, a novel with absolutely perfect symbolism that describes the descent of this woman goin' bonkers, with the overflow of emotions which invades her after being left for the "other woman." Incendiary & insightful, Elena Ferrante is an authentic discovery!
Olga- the dreamy adolescent, a thoughtful woman, mother of two kids, and a writer driven by need instead of love who now allocates a mere ten ordinary sentences to encapsulate her whole life which has been brutally impeded by the glaring title of ‘abandoned wife’.
If I were to start from there, from those secret emotions, perhaps I would understand better why he had gone and why I, who had always set against the occasional emotional confusion the stable order of our affections, now felt so violently the bitterness of loss, an intolerable grief, the anxiety of falling out of the web of certainties and having to relearn life without the security of knowing how to do it.
Not nearly as good as Elena Ferrante's Naples Quartet. Engaging writing about a husband who leaves his wife and children, but I felt 'neutral'. I read this just before reading "Ties" by Domenico Starnone. A similar type story. By the end of 'both' novels -- I wanted to fly kites with the kids and get them ice cream cones. The adults can go play in their own sandboxes. I'm glad I read this short book and "Ties"..... but it made me miss 'the Quartet series.....especially book Two and Three. Well written........ but Bleak & Pathetic!
This is the sixth novel I have read by Elena Ferrante, and let me tell you her characters are not introspective, contemplative people.
In The Days of Abandonment a husband leaves his wife and two children.
The wife, our narrator, is incapable of finding a way to live singly.
Will she become a holy terror like Lila in the Neapolitan Novels?
How many times have we heard a story like this?
The novels of Ferrante do one thing for me: they make me delighted to be without offspring, and make my heart go out to those who undertake that impossible job.
When you don't know how to keep a man you lose everything.It is easy to say that the build-up to Olga’s sense of abandonment and her descent into the abyss of her psychological breakdown couldn’t quite hold together after her abrupt transformation back into normality underscored by a sense of contained pain; I don’t know how to put it adequately (I'm feeling as inadequate as people say they do when they review Stoner) but there is something entirely missing from the bigger picture that could, say, put in the right place the accumulated sense of her predicament as we read through the awkward and baffling situation-drama of her self-entrapment in the apartment with her two young children, out of her senses, unable to get out, her mind and body at war with each other.Staccato, fragmented, three-word sentences mirror the disordered urgency of Olga’s own state of mind, her desperate and repeated attempts to pull herself together, but her eventual coming to terms with her situation happens disconnectedly and unsubtly, as if waking from a nightmare, without giving the reader a chance to adjust to the transition.
On one hand, it is a visceral, brutal read - the story of Olga's near disintegration in the aftermath of her being abandoned by her husband Marco.
On the day that she discovers the identity of the lover for whom Marco has left - and this takes up probably half of the book - all hell breaks loose: her son vomits in his sleep and has a huge fever and her dog (well Mario's dog) gets sick and dies, probably poisoned.
While not as good as the Napolitain novels, Days of Abandonment is nonetheless a powerful read.
All these bits of her past swirl around, within, through Olga’s memory, Olga’s mind, her consciousness, her emotions.This makes the book sound almost like a story for women only, addressing concerns that not even all women would have interest in, a pot-boiler, chick lit.
Far from it.Ferrante’s writing astounds, brings chills to the spine and tears to the eyes, but not because it’s heart-grabbing.
How has such a writer, an anonymous Italian woman, appeared in these times - one who can be compared to the greatest writers of the last hundred years?
"I wanted to write stories about women with resources, women of invincible words, not a manual for the abandoned wife with her lost love at the top of her thoughts. I was young, I had pretensions. I didn't like the impenetrable page, like a lowered blind. I liked light, air between the slats…I loved the writers who made you look through every line, to gaze downward and feel the vertigo of the depths, the blackness of inferno." Was this Ferrante speaking through her main character, Olga? The mom
I liked light, air between the slats…I loved the writers who made you look through every line, to gaze downward and feel the vertigo of the depths, the blackness of inferno."
This is what Olga, the protagonist who is also a writer, discovers when she finds herself being the female character she thought she would never write about.The minute I turned the first page of this book, I knew I was reading a book whose mood would handcuff me, demanding my attention.
Αν η εμπειρία μου με την τετραλογία της Νάπολης (διάβασα τα 3 από τα 4) ήταν απογοητευτική και μάλλον βαρετή εμπειρία τότε οι μέρες εγκατάλειψης θα έλεγα ότι ήταν απλά αποκαρδιωτική.
Υποψιάζομαι ότι θα άγγιξε αρκετό γυναικείο πληθυσμό λόγω της διείσδυσης ας πούμε που προσπαθεί να γίνει στην γυναικεία ψυχολογία και πράγματι και εγώ βρήκα μέσα κανά δυο ατάκες που θα μπορούσα να εχω πει ή σκεφτεί ως γυναίκα αλλά ειλικρινά κρίνω τον ευατό μου αρκετά μίζερο από μόνο του για να κάθομαι να διαβάζω και μίζερα βιβλία.
These are some I have read in the last couple of yearsLove Me Back by Merritt Tierce in which a waitress has way too much sex and drugs (but hardly any rock and roll)Eileen by Ottessa Moshfegh in which Eileen (who else) is driven to the point of distraction by her alky father and does something really crazy Dietland by Sarai Walker in which the self loathing of an obese young woman gradually transmutes into some kind of political terrorismA Day Off by Storm Jameson in which a middle aged woman spends her day off from the sprocket factory hating on anything and everythingThe Piano Teacher by Elfriede Jelinek in which a daughter has been driven quite masochistically loopy by her horrible controlling motherDept of Speculation by Jenny Offill in which an abandoned wife gradually cracks upThe Days of Abandonment is similar to this last one, except the abandonment by the husband comes from a clear blue sky like a sudden clap of thunder.One April afternoon, right after lunch, my husband announced that he wanted to leave me.
This is why I implore all of you to read this book.This is the depiction of one woman, Olga, and how she deals (or doesn't deal) with the fact that her husband has suddenly decided he is leaving her.
As a reader, we are inside this woman's head throughout all of the 'days of abandonment', and it's a truly dark, bleak, and at times shocking place.
At other times you are trudging through what feels like thick mud, and you feel like you'll never get out of it.In short, read this book.
I will most definitely be checking out all of Ferrante's other novels, no matter how bad the covers are.
A knock against "women's literature"is that it never aims for, or achieves, a large-scale canvas.
In less than 200 pages Ferrante turns the convention upside down, the large-scale over the domestic.
She shows us her small breasts (and in her next novel Ferrante has her narrator lifting up her dress at a clothing store to reveal her panties - this kind of exhibitionism in someone this intelligent is not the usual order of things).
Ordinarily you don't come across women like this because they don't notice you either.This one novel single-handedly redeemed my faith in contemporary literature, which I was just about ready to give up.
Ferrante is a master at capturing human emotion. Not only that, her sentences are so delightful and can turn from horrifying to elating in a matter of seconds. I'm happy to say this one did not disappoint.
When I finished Shirley Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House two days ago, all I wanted to do as read another book exactly like that one.
I stayed up all night gobbling up The Days of Abandonment.I read a lot.
I read a lot of good books.
How the book becomes meta, but not, it's cheap to use that word, because narrative and thinking about how she narrates her life becomes essential to Olga's survival, to her sanity.
And so this book is, in many ways, The Days of Abandonment is a middle-aged kunstlerroman, a portrait of an artist deferred, a woman returning to writing in her late thirties, after losing herself in marriage.
Olga does that, it is probably not loss of her husband in itself which troubles her - "What a mistake, above all, it had been to believe that I couldn't live without him, when for a long time I had not been at all certain that I was alive with him.” But, it is the fact that "I had taken away my own time and added it to his to make him more powerful." Remember in 'The Handmaid's Tale' the first thing the new regime did was to take away from the women their financial agency.And, so how will author make you feel his/her pain?
Slightly spoilery "Existence is a start of joy, a stab of pain, an intense pleasure, veins that pulse under the skin, there is no other truth to tell." Abandonment. Loneliness. Rejection. How do we survive them? How does Olga survive, when her husband leaves her for a younger woman after fifteen years of marriage? By stepping outside of herself. She lets herself see. But is it only when we find ourselves tired of ourselves that we think to see outside of ourselves? And when we finally make this
It looks like we are always too far behind or moving forward too fast and never in the direction we need to.
Sometimes we just need to stop and let ourselves breathe and think.
Olga finds herself in a situation in which she needs to do both.
And there is the practical, tough Olga, who knows that she needs to move forward.
What does Olga lose and gain after the loss of her previous life?
Olga, after forced by her circumstances, makes that step.
Ferrantes novel is taut and precise,not necessarily plot driven.This is an exploration of the mental turmoil and anguish of a woman whose husband suddenly removes himself from the family home in Turin.Themes of abandonment,control,isolation,and recovery and much more.Very satisfying and succeeds wonderfully.Four Stars
Ε λοιπόν αυτό το βιβλίο όσο υπερβολικό και αν είναι σε σημεία, σε κάνει να αποκτήσεις την κλειστοφοβική αίσθηση της εγκαταλελειμμένης αυτής γυναίκας, σε βάζει στην θέση της, καταλαβαίνεις τι αισθάνεται σε κάθε περίσταση. Και αυτό θεωρώ πως είναι δύσκολο να μεταφερθεί με τόση μαεστρία, οπότε σίγουρα με κέρδισε.
Όποιος αντί για την συγκλονιστική περιγραφή μιας ψυχολογικής κατάρρευσης, έμεινε στην μίρλα και τον μονόλογο της ηρωίδας, έχασε τον χρόνο του και την ευκαιρία να διαβάσει ένα εξαιρετικό βιβλίο.
Από την στιγμή της συνειδητοποίησης και έπειτα βλέπουμε την Όλγα να καταρρέει, να σκοντάφτει από το ένα λάθος στο άλλο και τελικά να καταλήγει σε μια μανιώδη κατάσταση, από αυτές που χρειάζονται άμεσα βοήθεια.Η Ferrante, την οποία να υπογραμμίσω δεν έχω σε καμία μεγάλη εκτίμηση, σε αυτό το βιβλίο δείχνει ένα εντελώς διαφορετικό συγγραφικό πρόσωπο.
Όσοι δεν έχουν έρθει σε επαφή με άτομα που πάσχουν από ιδεοψυχαναγκαστικές διαταραχές* περάσανε αυτό το κομμάτι στο ντούκου χάνοντας έτσι την ευκαιρία να απολαύσουν μια σαφή περιγραφή της κατάστασης αυτής.
Wife, who hasn't worked outside the home for many years, is left with the children, the house, the bills, and her own aging body.
Although Ann Goldstein has translated all Ferrante's Europa Editions-published works, so I have to assume her tone is true to the author's own.Contrary to that sense of emotional detachment, The Days of Abandonment is an intensely physical story.
Ferrante uses pain-an errant piece of glass in pasta sauce that pierces the roof of Mario's mouth; the threat of a mother to cut off her daughter's hands with sewing shears; a child's forehead smashing into the windshield to the sound of screeching car brakes--to frame Olga's sanity.
I hated this book for 85% of it, then the last 15% weren't all bad, and I kind of lost all that built-up rage...
All the images used felt forced and awkward and are probably why Ferrante is considered such a great novelist.For once, I wish the author would have stayed away from vulgarity (both language and scene wise).
Because the "crude" language Olga took up while being so "distraught" by Mario leaving felt 500% false and weird and awkward.
The worst thing about this book is that the premise doesn't really work.
It follows the life of Olga, a woman on the verge of a breakdown after being dumped by her husband of many years for a younger model.
Olga at first cannot cope, she abandons everything she holds dear and finds herself in the slough of depression, but soon she must get up and carry on and attempt to restore an iota of normality into her life and the lives of her children.
Most people have been on the receiving end of a horrible breakup where they find themselves utterly destroyed and devastated, and Ferrante's descriptions are spot on.
The Days of Abandonment is a book of fearsome emotional force. The plot seems simple enough. Husband Mario leaves his wife, Olga, for a much younger woman. So young, in fact, that it would be statutory rape when the affair started. In the awful process of abandonment, Olga very nearly destroys herself. Her husband was truly scum, but his effects of his actions continue out of Olga's fear and rage.I respect the emotional power and depth of his book, but I doubt I will quickly return to Ferrante's worlds.
Λοιποοοον! 2- 2.5 η πρωτη επαφη με τη Φερραντε. Η αληθεια ειναι πως ειχα μεγαλες προσδοκιες γι αυτη την αναγνωση καθως εχω κ την τετραλογια της. Δυστυχως απογοητευτηκα! Προσπαθησα να δικαιολογησω πολλες φορες τη σταση της κ τις αντιδρασεις της αλλα δε με βοηθουσε. Μου προκαλουσε ενα συνεχη εκνευρισμο κ μια αδιαφορια. Βεβαια, στο τελος κατι πηγα να νιωσω. Επιχειρησα να μπω στην ψυχοσυνθεση της. Παρουσιασε σπαμπανεβασματα κ αυτο με χαλασε. Υπερισχυσαν τα αρνητικα συναισθηματα κ η ολικη αρνητικη εικονα. Παρ' ολα αυτα διαβαζεται γρηγορα. Ειναι φυσικα καλυτερο απο τον Στοουνερ. Ωστοσο εχουν πολλα κοινα.
This was emotional and searing and I finished it in one afternoon and it left me some combination of sad and angry and melancholy for the rest of the day, and it's going to be a pretty long time before I can talk about it, I think.
Só em Portugal, existem centenas de pessoas que se dedicam a este tipo de escrita, das quais aproveito para deixar dois casos que espelham a qualidade do meio: Ana Cássia Rebelo e Mil Ghent.Por outro lado, e mais ainda por termos uma Elena Ferrante italiana, ou localizada em Itália, torna-se inevitável falar do movimento artístico fílmico aí surgido nas décadas de 1940/50, o neorealismo italiano, que procurava apresentar na tela a vida tal como ela era, sem qualquer embelezamento.
Olga je četrdesetogodišnjakinja koju suprug nakon 15 godina braka i dvoje djece ostavlja zbog mlađe žene. U danima zaborava u kojima se navikava na novi život ona pada u ponor pitajući se hoće li se njen život ikada vratiti u normalu. Moji osjećaji prema Olgi su varirali od dubokog suosjećanja pa do trenutaka kada sam opravdavala postupke njenog supruga. Ferrante je zaista majstorica psihološke katakterizacije likova. Još jednom me oduševila!
