https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24441.The_Ships_of_Earth
In the previous books, Mr. Card did a great job weaving political schemes and plots and creating characters who would realistically react to the new and changing situations in which they found themselves.
I had to skip 4 three-minute tracks before I got beyond the sex.
If you want us to believe your book, make it believable.
The logic set up on what the Oversoul can and can't do clearly excludes giving Nafai someone else's muscle memory.Bottom line, this book was a flop.
It should have been shortened and combined with either the previous or next book.
One of them that could provide some particularly interesting conversation is the change from the characters living in a serial monogamous matriarchal culture to that of a permanent monogamous patriarchal one.
Although the author does not present either matriarchal or patriarchal systems as superior, he does seem to have strong feelings about monogamy and homosexuality.I actually managed to read this book all the way to the last page without realizing that it was the 3rd book in the Homecoming Series.
Card leaves no gaps though, and it is perfectly readable without feeling that you are missing anything.
In this volume, Volemak leads his family into the desert under the direction of the Oversoul, a satellite computer which was created to prevent mankind from recreating the destruction of earth society on their new home of Harmony.
The Oversoul's systems continue to fail allowing the extremes of violence to return to Harmony and he/she has chosen to rescue a select family to return to Earth.
The dichotomies between those who choose the right and those who rebel become more pronounced in this volume and Card gives the reader a good deal of intrigue along the way as Elemak constantly plots the death of his younger brother, Nafai.
I felt that this was a marked improvement from the last book in this series ("the Call of Earth"). Things finally began picking up, there was a fair amount of character development, and there was a good sense that the real action was finally beginning. (the first 2 books almost felt like Prologues or some sorts of Prequels..)I found some of the character dynamics somewhat predictable, but overall this novel seems to have set the stage for the next book, which I have yet to read.
This has to be one of my favorite books in the whole world. It's the mid book in a truly wonderful series. While this series is closely tied to the book of Mormon, I didn't know that the first several times I read it. The characters in the story are intense and real. The love and ties that bind the family together are so true. It's wonderful!
He de dir que la història m'interessa, i tinc moltes ganes de saber què es trobaran quan arribin a la Terra (el que em queda, encara!), però de tant en tant, se'm fa una mica pesat i penso que es podria fer una mica més ràpid...
D'altra banda, d'aquestes 8 parelles, n'hi ha 3-4 que són importants, i les altres només surten de tant en tant per mostrar-nos com de dolents som els éssers humans.
Llegiré el que queda, perquè tinc ganes de saber com acaba tot, però tampoc tinc massa pressa per fer-ho.
The story continues a family on the quest to return from the planet Harmony to the planet Earth.
This is a science fiction story, but only a little bit of scify is involved until the very end.
The main part of this story covers the evolving relationships of a new colony, that starts out as 16 people.
One of the couples has a gay partner, but that is an interesting twist on the interpersonal relationships.
It was not really necessary.I will continue on to the next book of the series.
Orson Scott Card confuses the hell out of me.
He makes pretty much the best, most self-sacrificing, highly intelligent character gay and openly says it's because of that character's biology....and yet Orson Scott Card is a homophobic bigot in real life.
And then OSC's whole approach to gender dynamics is that men naturally rule in times of hardship...
but in many passages that's recognized as an unethical hierarchy and the women in the novel get pissed about it (rightfully so).
Practically every man (except for the gay guy and the guy who has a disability) is murderous or at least capable of murder.Like what even is your worldview, OSC?
La série monte en puissance dans ce troisième tome, qui dans mes souvenirs était celui que j'avais le plus apprécié.
La bonne direction prise dans le second tome est poursuivie, les personnages continuent de prendre de l'épaisseur, on s'attache enfin à eux (mention spéciale à Zdorab et Shedemei), et les événements se dramatisent.
Le scénario souffre encore de quelques deus ex machina prévisibles, et je pense de plus en plus que c'est justement la preuve que ce cycle est une réécriture du Livre des Mormons, donc on dira que cela fait partie de l'expérience.Ce tome, sans être un chef d'oeuvre non plus, est donc un très bon pivot central pour le cycle.
This was an extremely disappointing continuation of the Homecoming series.After the political and interpersonal intrigue driving the first two books, the third opens by showcasing some of Card's worst writing habits. Moralizing and over-explanation abound, sprinkled with passages that read like middle school social studies essays. If you're going to expound upon your pet theories on psychology or sociology at least make the writing interesting!Thankfully the book gets better after the first third, and comes to an acceptable conclusion. But it could have been so much better.
This time, the title gives away the ultimate goal that is set for the group we are following. But it's not until the very last chapter that the ships are actually discovered. In the meantime, we see groups and individuals interact, a new society being built, as well as a new generation beginning to step up and take its place alongside the old generation.This instalment is still not as good as the first part, but the author continues to build characters and succeeds in keeping his readers interested in seeing what the next plot twist will bring.
not as good as I was hoping based on his other books. I'm losing interest in the characters. also found too many characters that had been more important in the story before just background characters in this book.
The rate of reading has slowed down. I'm starting to get suspicious by this book #3. Will something cool EVER happen? Coz it's not happened yet. Oh well, maybe in the next book.
8/10 <3
Even though the plot seems to be moving (FINALLY), somehow, everything is so boring! :(
Interesting series to listen to during the commute, not exciting but interesting.
This story was engaging, but also moved fairly slowly. I still enjoyed the read and look forward to the conclusion.
After 40 million years on Harmony that time has finally come and the Oversoul begins to act.
Eventually, they must reach a secret location on Harmony where no human has been for 40 million years: the ancient spaceport where the ships of Earth still lie in wait.
During eight years of wandering around the planet the group grows from sixteen to around forty and they haven’t even reached the spaceships yet.In my audiobook review for book two of this series I commented that Orson Scott Card was taking a long time to get somewhere and I felt that was true with book three as well.
However, it’s not the experience of riding the roller coaster itself that this book reminds me of, but waiting in line for what you know is going to be a great experience.
You know where our incredibly young yet incredibly mature main characters are headed, but at the moment you’re in a place where there seems to be no end to and you just hope around the next bend is what you’ve been waiting for.
Maybe what Orson Scott Card was going for was to make you go through your own sort of desert while reading about the characters and their conflicts.
Worthy continuation of the Homecoming series.In the beginning it felt like it's going to be a more or less the same old same old as in the previous two parts, i.e. the same characters bickering about the same stuff in the same way.
In the beginning it felt like the whole thing was stuck in a rut, but after the group had spent a while in the desert camp, it changed for the better.Overall, however, the weaknesses here were the same as in the previous parts.
On the one hand, the book is a kind of synthesis of the Old Testament.
Events and scenes do not add up to the Old Testament, and the reader should not try to force them to fit it; that would be both artificial and superficial.
It is clear that there is considerable influence from Old Testament writings, but the book is its own literary unit.
Card doesn't get foolishly sentimental about his characters, unlike some authors.On the other hand, I'm sure I didn't like the deus ex machina at the end (and no, it's not comparable to the Incarnation, though Card may have thought so - I only write that to say that I'm not saying I don't appreciate the Incarnation).
The Ships of Earth (1994) 352 pages by Orson Scott Card.This is the third book in the Homecoming series.
The first two books focus on events in Basilica, and at the end our main characters leave the city to be the group that helps the computer repair itself.The Ships of Earth starts with our group of 16 hand chosen, by the Oversoul, men and women in the desert south of Basilica.
These are Card's characters and he can have them act however he wants them to act, but they are a little bit on the soap opera side with their behavior.
When a book description talks about inter-relational tension and the author is Orson Scott Card, you know it's going to be entertaining.
Only I knew that it wasn't real, that it was the wine making them think they were having fun—or rather, they were having fun, but the wine made them think it mattered to have fun, when here, just acrosss the river, I had the fruit that would give them the kind of joy that they were pretending they already had.
...and now I know the secret from Father's dream, the thing that even he didn't understand—that you can never taste the fruit by reaching for it yourself.
I've been running through this series as books on tape and I've been super happy with them all so far.
So here is the potentially epic voyage into the unknown and the majority of conflicts are driven by petty and in the scale of things insignificant factors of these individuals life's.
I'm continuing the story into the forth book and the generally disagreeable and frankly winy concerns of people living in the past seem to keep running the show.
I say this generalization is a major theme of the series.
It honestly makes me a little afraid to reread Speaker for the Dead, which I count as the single most formative book of my childhood - what would I find in there if I read it now, I wonder?I'm not sure whether the Cloak of the Starmaster is intended to be a metaphor for mystical union, but I'm leaning towards yes.
I think it's because he's not afraid to go all the way with the science fiction elements - the Oversoul comes across like a super-powerful computer, not as a plot device intended to make a point about God.
At times, the details of the journeyings and who's who in the new generation gets a little cumbersome, but on the most part, Orson Scott Card keeps the direction moving forward at all times.The biggest plot device seems to be the struggle between the oldest brother, Elemak, and Nafai.
Also, most of the group wants to leave the difficult desert life and return to the lavish city life they had left.When the group gets to its final destination, Orson Scott Card gives a very imaginative story as to how they come to build a ship to get to Earth.
Cuando termine de leer este libro, me di cuenta que le había tomado cariño a esta saga.
Además me parece que este factor hace que la historia sea tanto mejor.Y el final, tal y como muestra la tapa, da un indicio de que el próximo libro ya toma lugar en el espacio, lo cual es lo único que le falta a esta historia para llegar a ser una historia de primera calidad.
También se da un indicio del conflicto que va a surgir durante la siguiente etapa de la historia y es inexplicable lo excelente que es si no leíste los libros anteriores.
It was bogged down in details of the travel and the minor arguments between the main characters.Although it was interesting to learn more about each of the characters we met in the other novels, but to be completely honest it became trite and somewhat annoying.
Between the last book and this book I’m getting tired of what amounts to pure whiny-ness of most of the main characters, they’re honestly annoying and have very little room for growth as characters.Click here to continue reading on my blog The Oddness of Moving Things.
The original group is still intact, though they have grown with the marriages that have taken place and the children that had been born.
Nafai still struggles with his two older brothers (Laman & Lemuel), primarily Elemak in the ability to lead and control the group.
Nafai wants to serve and do the Over Soul's will, but Elemak, the first born, has defied the Over Soul and has no wish to follow him/her.
There are quite a lot of themes to be taken away from the series, now that I've really gotten into them.
Pour Nafai et ses compagnons, la page de Basilica est définitivement tournée. Quittant, sous la contrainte des événements, la quiétude de la cité des femmes, ils doivent à présent affronter le rude désert d'Harmonie. Commence alors pour eux un voyage de plusieurs années qui doit les mener jusqu'aux vaisseaux stellaires, synonymes de retour vers la Terre. Au cours de leur exode, jalousie et rancœur font leur apparition au sein de la communauté et le groupe menace de se désintégrer. En dépit des
Pour Nafai et ses compagnons, la page de Basilica est définitivement tournée.
Quittant, sous la contrainte des événements, la quiétude de la cité des femmes, ils doivent à présent affronter le rude désert d'Harmonie.
Commence alors pour eux un voyage de plusieurs années qui doit les mener jusqu'aux vaisseaux stellaires, synonymes de retour vers la Terre.
En dépit des doutes et des difficultés qui jaillissent, Nafai continue de placer sa confiance et sa foi en Surâme.
Mais que peut faire même le plus puissant des ordinateurs dieux lorsque la haine s'installe dans le cœur des hommes ?
http://www.amazon.fr/Terre-origines-Lexode-Orson-Scott-Card/dp/2290330620
