https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60933.Clay_s_Ark
What makes this book stand out is its use of the story as a doorway to larger themes of what it means to be human and to be part of a community.Written in 1984, the tale is set in the California Mojave Desert in 2021, close to our present, but 40 years from then.
For the subset of humans who survive the infection, the alien invaders act symbiotically to change the host in certain ways to enhance their survival and the hosts.
The others (of which I have read one) deal in various ways with alien-modified humans trying to take over Earth.
This was the most disturbing book by Octavia E.
My dislike comes, perhaps from a bias regarding its place as part of the Seed to Harvest collection.Clay's Ark carries the similar theme of a community of humans, mutated both physically and psychologically, who must fight against outward and inward forces to maintain their humanity -- a theme that dominates just about every book I've read from this author.
In fact, Clay Dana's involvement is not mentioned until more than half way through the book.
Clay's Ark: An alien disease transforms a portion of humanityOriginally published at Fantasy LiteratureClay’s Ark (1984) was written last in Octavia Butler’s 4-book PATTERNIST series, but comes third in chronology.
The past story arc is centered on an astronaut named Eli, the only survivor of a spaceship called Clay’s Ark that went on an exploratory mission to Proxima Centauri.
The mission encountered an alien microbe that affected and transformed their DNA for it’s own purposes.
As the story progresses, we learn that this community is led by former astronaut Eli and consists of people infected by the sinister alien microbe brought back from Proxima Centauri.
This could easily be read as a brief standalone novel. Rather than fly, a wealthy family from a rich area takes a drive on the violent, dangerous roads between enclaves and gets kidnapped. Butler's series theme of genetics this time concerns an alien microbe that mutates human hosts. Fascinating story...as always.
for me than Mind of My Mind.Both novels concern a sort of new development for humanity -- Mind of My Mind has people with psychic abilities who are gaining power by working as a group, and Clay's Ark has an isolated set of people infected by an alien disease which changes them completely.
Butler carefully avoids having any of the carriers rape with physical force, but given that none of them would be having sex without the disease, it's not exactly consensual at best.The sexual spread of the disease in Clay's Ark compares with the development of populations with psi abilities in Wild Seed and Mind of My Mind.
Where Butler gets it right—always gets it right—is in the fascinating premises she builds her novels on.
Where she occasionally gets it wrong is in the development.Butler published Patternmaster in 1974, and then spent the next eight years filling in the history of the far-future world she had created.
Unfortunately, it never rises above its status as a prequel—there is no clear reason why this story needed to be told, out of all the stories Butler could have written, except that the Clayarks of Patternmaster needed to be explained.
I previously read Wild Seed and Mind of My Mind, and those two books were directly related, with a few of the same characters 200 years down the road.
Just as with the first two Patternist stories I read, Clay's Ark incorporates many of the same themes: gender, race, evolution, survival, breeding programs, and morality.
As I've come to expect, Butler never gives an easy answer to any of these ideas, and instead poses situations in which morality seems like a luxury in the face of survival.
Enjoyable, but certainly not the best of the Patternist series.
Oh well!However, Butler does a tremendous job of describing the insidious and terrifying symptoms of the Clay's Ark disease, i.e. the physical changes, the urges, need to infect, etc.
The book still suffers from some explain-y, hand-wavy writing, which is unfortunate, and possibly attributable to the fact that Butler wrote Clay's Ark as a kind of background postscript to the Patternist series.Anyway not a bad book, and this is the closest we'll ever get to the book that I always wanted from Butler--Scratching Where It Itches: A Day in the Life of a Clayark.
Nasty, short, brutish. The weakest and most unpleasant I've read by Butler so far, particularly in that the intensely uncomfortable elements (graphic violence, rape, infectious Stockholm Syndrome) do not seem worth it for the plot.
Maybe it is the combination of concepts such as hunger, survival, and difference; or the fact that there is no relief from the tension of the story's events.
It feels as though Octavia Butler wrote this in a fever: the text bounces forward and backward and from side to side without sentimentality or finishing touches.
You just have to let the story whip you around by the seat of your pants.
This book came out in 1984 and it is interesting to note how Butler's narrative includes things like [what we know today as being] a "GPS" system!
In her novel Clay's Ark, part of the Patternist series, Butler shows us the beginning of an extraterrestrial epidemic that has the potential to completely wipe out the human race.
What happens next determines the fate of all humankind.While this may sound an awful lot like the other examples of this theme that I mentioned, what makes Butler's take different is the way that the infected try to hold on to their humanity.
In Clay's Ark the literal infection is an alien life form, but Butler could be using that as a symbol for anything that causes us to act in ways that deny our humanity.
The result can be death, but the people who survive are transformed into something other than human: skinnier, stronger, faster, hungrier, more prey to nigh-uncontrollable sexual urges.
The question is: Are the new people better or worse than ordinary humans, or just different?The crew decide to duck the question by destroying the spacecraft and themselves on landing.
Unfortunately, all that the father and one of the daughters can think about is escape, even though their escape is sure to result in the infection of the rest of the world and the eventual replacement of the human species by the new one.Butler's vision of future humanity is bleak and very disturbing.
It seems Ms. Butler started with the fifth book and added the others somewhat randomly.) In any case, this third story in the series has only the faintest relation to the preceding two.Because of the lack of connection, this book functioned largely as a standalone novel.
Perhaps Butler was leaving a gap for another novel to fill later - the story of the scouting trip might have been interesting.
The ending leaves a lot implied, and suggests that Butler was most interested in the hard choices that Eli faces.
Many bad decisions were made in this book.
You can't just use a mind controlling organism group.
Butler sucked me in with this normal, average father and twin daughters, one of which with Leukemia is just crossing a desert, minding their own business until they meet skinny, creepy people.
The skinny, creepy people turn out to have a disease.
Then you follow this father and his daughters through their horrible plight which makes you want to devour the book to find out what will happen.So go and do that.
None of the characters from the early book are hinted at.
Clay's Ark, set on Earth depicts a conflict between those humans who have been transfigured by an extraterrestrial virus into intensely aggressive monsters and those both Patternist and mute who have not been infected; a powerful sense of the viral omnivorousness of plague invests the extraordinarily savage telling of this tale.
Clay's Ark is chronologically third in the series but was apparently published later to provide some background on one of the groups in Patternmaster that hadn't been introduced in the previous two books.
Once I got over my confusion about its connection to the previous two books, I enjoyed the story here.
Like the previous two books, Butler is examining community and what it means to be human through the stories of those who are both more than and less than human.
And like the previous two books, it portrays rape and incest, which gets particularly disturbing toward the very end.
This one didn't feel at all like a part of this series, it lacked all reference to previous characters and events, and from what I saw, included nothing that would connect the story itself to the first two; while I think that strange, it is not, necessarily, a deal breaker, and I am also hopeful that the final book can tie them all together.This one actually seemed a lot more like a zombie story; a virus hits that spreads impulsively and affects nearly everything in the host, but it was maybe more like a prequel to a zombie story, because it hadn't quite taken hold yet.
So, this book was a little bit of a letdown.
meh.Clay's Ark is only distantly connected to the rest of the series (that I've read to date) by the side character of Clay Dana (introduced in Mind of My Mind).
Clay does not directly appear in this book, but he did design the ship used in the expedition that brought back the disease at the core of this book's plot.Ultimately, it reads as a mediocre side-adventure in an otherwise compelling universe, and I really don't know what to make of it.
I had difficulty connecting to the characters, and very little empathy for the plot points.Nonetheless, there's nothing technically wrong with it on a writing kevel.
It's an 'ok' book.
Meh. I dunno how it went from mutants to alien microbes taking over people. It's a much quicker read because so many people die in this one and I don't need to think too hard when I read it o.o;;
I really enjoyed this installment of the Patternist series. But I struggle to see its connection to Doro, Anyanwu, etc al., beyond Clay Dana’s connection.
I am not an avid science fiction reader but after seeing an exhibit on Octavia Butler at The Huntington I was inspired to read one of her works and was not disappointed. Clay's Ark invokes a familiar theme remenicient of The Adromeda Strain or Body Snatchers. We humans always seem to be anxious about the possible alien take over of our bodies. I anticipate trying another one of her stories.
Content warnings: graphic murder, suicide, gratuitous sexual violence, mentions of disease/illness/infection
Having read Wild Seed and Mind of My Mind, this was not at all what I expected of a book set in the Patternmaster series.
It was interesting to see Butler explore similar issues coming about from different motivations.In itself, this is a very different sort of contact story from what is more commonly written.
The contact is almost just a macgyver to allow the exploration of how confinement and externally imposed obsessions might play out.
Not Butler's strongest work, but intriguing and enjoyable (well...
within the bounds of devastating sf...) nonetheless.Later: having now read Patternmaster, this book makes a bit more sense.
At the beginning of the book, the family is kidnapped by a group of people who are infected with an alien virus which was brought back to earth from an excursion into space some years prior.
Also, although Butler can be very dark, in the past I've felt like it contributed to the story in a major way, and it was justified , but in this novel I didn't enjoy reading "just one more dark thing"- as a reader I didn't want to go there because I didn't enjoy the book.
So, this is the first book by Octavia Butler I've ever read.
I went in cold—no reading of the book jacket synopsis or reviews or anything at all—and I was very impressed.
But what I can say is that I felt Butler packs an incredible amount of ideas for discussion in a short amount of time without sacrificing a thing.
I was also very impressed with the way Butler switched from character to character and past to present, filling in the story pieces with only slight overlap and making each perspective independent and engaging.
If you take a pessimist view on humanity and end of the world like scenarios, the way in which people act will probably come off as realistic.It's a relatively short novel, and makes me kind of wonder, why bother going back to write this?
Clay's Ark reads more like an old school pulp sci-fi novel, but kicked up for a more mature audience.Because an "alien invasion" is the main focus I think it is appropriate the story be unsettling and creepy.
The spin on the typical invasion story is that the resulting offspring from the infected aren't necessarily evil or need to be destroyed (although not entirely confirmed nor denied) - they're just different.
Butler, it was about 25 years ago—or more-- I read this book and found it creepy, disturbing and disgusting.
But the first few chapters of this novel were attached to Mind of My Mind, on Kindle, and I thought I’d try it again.
Butler often writes about different kinds of slavery and compulsion, in this novel it’s to a disease from Proxima Centauri.
It’s an alien invasion novel, without aliens.
I didn’t like this as much as Butler’s Wild Seed or Parable of the Sower, those two though, are two of my favorite books of all time, but I’m glad I reread it.
I’ve owned this book for many years.
Butler creates a dystopian future in which a mysterious disease infects a secluded community in California.
In this way, they use the disease as a threat and a weapon to bring needed members into their community.
They kidnap a family, a doctor named Blake and his two daughters Rane and Keira, who is sick with leukemia.Butler's work gives a very interesting perspective in which she explores forced symbiotic relations that often occur when one party is an unwilling participant in the relationship.
Her work can be seen metaphorically for Black Americans unwillingly taken from their home and forced to live under conditions that forces us to become a part of an existing not of our choosing.
This science fiction novel is a disturbing apocalyptic horror spiced up with a bit of alien, zombie microbe fun.As with all of Ms. Butler's work, you must have a strong constitution to deal with the depravity of humanity.
You are forced yet again to identify with the strangest casts of characters.
There are never any clearly defined roles of hero and villain, and frequently the lines blur and many characters become both.
Many of Octavia Butler's books are cringe worthy for sure because of these themes but they manage to be brilliantly insightful, cautionary tales.
The book tracks two timelines: the initial outbreak of the symbiont, and the family's experience related from three points of view.
As a result, this is my least favorite of the Patternist series so far (as well as my least favorite Butler novel).
But mediocre Butler is still worth reading, and the alien symbiont has a vast destructive scale, on par with Lilith's Brood as a humanity-changing event.
I suspect it also explores an important turning point in the Patternist series, and again I wish I were reading these books in publication order rather than internal chronology.
