https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4671.The_Great_Gatsby
Oh Gatsby, you old sport, you poor semi-delusionally hopeful dreamer with 'some heightened sensitivity to the promises of life', focusing your whole self and soul on that elusive money-colored green light - a dream that shatters just when you are *this* close to it.
Yours is the story of a young man who suddenly rose to wealth and fame, running like a hamster on the wheel amassing wealth for the sake of love, for the sake of winning the heart of a Southern belle, the one whose 
There may never be a character who so epitomizes tragically misplaced devotion as Jay Gatsby, and Daisy, his devotee, plays her part with perfect, innocent malevolence.
It is an ethical massacre, and Fitzgerald spares no lives; there is perhaps not a single character of any significance worthy even of a Sportsmanship Award from the Boys and Girls Club.In a word, The Great Gatsby is about deception; Fitzgerald tints our glasses rosy with gorgeous prose and a narrator you want so much to trust, but leaves the lenses just translucent enough for us to see that Gatsby is getting the same treatment.
This is my least-favorite classic of all time.
Probably even my least favorite book, ever.
I've been surprised by many books, many a times.
I was never fully introduced to the root of the affair that existed between Gatsby and Daisy.
So they were in love...yeah..I've been in love too, who cares?Several times I didn't even understand where characters were when they were speaking to each other.
I also didn't understand the whole affair with Tom and Mrs. Wilson..
still..why am I suppose to care about all this?
Again, who cares?
I read this book twice.
2 times.
After six years of these heated and polarized debates, I'm deleting the reviews that sparked them. Thanks for sharing your frustrations, joys, and insights with me, goodreaders. Happy reading! In love and good faith, always,Savannah
Mass media and modern fame would have embraced the way you tried to push your way into a social circle you didn’t belong to in an effort to fulfill a fool’s dream as your entire existence became a lie and you desperately sought to rewrite history to an ending you wanted.
You had a talent for it, Jay, but a modern PR expert would have made you bigger than Kate Gosselin.
But then you’d have realized how worthless Daisy really was at some point.
Is there such a thing as a second chance?So you’ve got this new life in New York, and you’ve got a BFF from Louisville (Jordan Baker), and yes, Tom is cheating on you, but if he maybe just didn’t answer the goddamn phone during dinner for once you could just forget about it for literally one freaking second.And then GUESS WHAT?
Gatsby sucks.Six: It’s called the responsible choice, you raging dingbatsSo AFTER she’s already been pressured by Gatsby to act as though entire swaths of her life didn’t happen, she finds out Gatsby has been lying to her all along - keeping the truth from her in order to protect this psychotic fairytale concoction of a totally goddamn made up story.
There was one thing I really liked about The Great Gatsby.It was short.
At a sparse 180 pages, Fitzgerald’s masterpiece could be argued to be the “Great American novella.” Gatsby, like so many other short classics, is easily readable, re-readable, and assessable to everyone from the attention-deficient young to mothers juggling a kid, a career, and a long-held desire to catch up on all those books “they should have read but haven’t gotten around to yet”.I’ve now read Gatsby three times, and I admit that on my first reading during (like handfuls of others) my senior year English class, I wasn’t particularly fond of the book; I believe I used the adjective “overrated” on numerous occasions.
Casual, self-absorbed decadence, the evaporation of social grace, money calling all the shots and memories of the past holding people hostage from the future that lies before them. Yes, Mr. Fitzgerald has nailed it and written one of THE great American novels. This book was a surprise. I LOVED it and all of the deep contradictions swimming around its heart. At once a scathing indictment on the erosion of the American Dream, but also a bittersweet love letter to the unfailing optimism of the Ame
His time in Long Island is spent with a group that includes his second cousin, Daisy Buchanan, and her rich husband Tom who live in Long Island’s East Egg. At one point in the story, Nick provides the following description of the pair which I do not think can be improved upon: 
I don’t want to give away major parts of the story as I think they are best experienced for the first time fresh, but at the heart of Fitzgerald’s morality tale is a tragic love that for me rivaled the emotional devastation I felt at the doomed relationship of Heathcliff and Catherine in Wuthering Heights.
2.5 Stars1)  Always  google who you are going to fall in love with.  Reserving judgments is a matter of infinite hope. 2) For the  love of God,  make a 401K They had spent a year in France for no particular reason, and then drifted here and there unrestfully wherever people played polo and were rich together.  3)  Never  swallow a thesaurus. I was within and without, simultaneously enchanted and repelled by the inexhaustible variety of life. Jay Gatsby is rich - the kind of exorbitant rich that
They had spent a year in France for no particular reason, and then drifted here and there unrestfully wherever people played polo and were rich together.
Jay Gatsby is rich - the kind of exorbitant rich that other rich people like to hang out with him, just so they can bask in his richness.He's also in love, with one Daisy Buchanan...who's already married to one, surly, cheating and backstabbing man.Our narrator has front row seats to all the glitz, the glam and the gore that circles around Jay Gatsby's chaotic life.
Like this: 
Of course, I originally read FSF's Gatsby because I was expected to for a high school English class.
Oh, and I love a good morally ambiguous-protaganist/narrator-who-hates-parties-and-society-but-just-can't-seem-to-stay-away as much as the next person, but Nick, our hero, just wants to be liked so very much, and unfortunately, he reads like a sap.
But I was disappointed 10 years ago by the story's inability to convince me it wasn't nap time, its unwillingness to point out the the relevance of the individual over society, and the irrelevance of the world Gatsby inhabits, and I was disappointed again this past week.
There are so many great books out there that will never get the attention they deserve.
It’s all about illusions and false appearances just like real life.
What Gatsby creates for the outside is a dream, an ideal life that looks perfect.However, scratch the surface and it is so very, very, clear that not everything is perfect.
In doing so Gatsby shows us that not everything is as simple as it appears, and that society driven by such monetary values is a dangerous thing because everybody is so detached from what really matters in life.
ترتبط هذه الرواية في ذهني بذكريات جميلة ودافئةفلقد درستها في عامي الأول في الكليةوكنت أقرؤها بلذة خا
English (The Great Gatsby) / Italiano«In my younger and more vulnerable years my father gave me some advice that I’ve been turning over in my mind ever since.
I was wrong.The narrator, Nick Carraway, lives in a house across the street of the luxurious villa of Jay Gatsby, the embodiment of the American Dream.
It is not real, it's only a dream.Vote: 8«Nei miei anni più giovani e vulnerabili mio padre mi diede un consiglio che non ho mai smesso di considerare.
Avevo torto.Il narratore Nick Carraway vive in un villino di fronte la sfarzosa dimora di Jay Gatsby, l'incarnazione del sogno americano.
It is on a shortlist of novels that should, every 5 years starting at age 25, return to any American's required reading list.First things first: The opening of The Great Gatsby -- its first 3-4 pages -- ranks among the best of any novel in the English language, and so too does its ending.
And he writes it in prose so perfect, so impressive, and so beautiful, I occasionally find myself at a loss to name a novel in the English language constructed with greater skill, and apparent ease thereof.In short: The Great Gatsby is an inimitable wonder of American fiction.
I just spent three days being read to by Jake Gyllenhaal and it was absolutely wonderful! I took Jake with me for long Summer walks, to the grocery store, Trader Joe's, and let me not forget the ten minutes I spent driving around the parking lot of Target, not for a better parking space, but to listen to Jake read "The Great Gatsby" to me! My only regret is that this fabulous experience is over. Sigh...I've read the book and watched both versions of the movie but this is by far my favorite experience with this novel!Highly highly recommended!
Fitzgerald anche in questo seppe cogliere l’aria del tempo (e poi restare eterno come solo i classici possono).Il primo adattamento per lo schermo apparve a un solo anno di distanza dalla prima pubblicazione, 1926, film muto, con Warner Baxter nel ruolo del titolo, Lois Wilson in Daisy, e Neil Hamilton in Nick.

Characters: Nick Carraway, Jay Gatsby, Daisy Buchanan, Tom Buchanan, Jordan Baker, Myrtle Wilson, Meyer Wolfsheim, George Wilson.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه سپتامبر سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: گتسبی بزرگ؛ اثر: اف.
اسکات فیتزجرالد (فیتس جرالد)؛ مترجم: کریم امامی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، انتشارات نیلوفر، 1379؛ در 288 صنخستین بار با عنوان: طلا و خاکستر گتسبی بزرگ؛ با ترجمه کریم امامی در تهران توسط انتشارات فرانکلین در سال 1344 در 204 ص منتشر شده استمترجمین دیگر این اثر بزرگ خانمها و آقایان: فهیمه رحمتی؛ نفیسه رنجبران؛ مهدی سجودی مقدم؛ عباس کرمی فر؛ فاطمه جمالی؛ محمدصادق سبط الشیخ؛ رضا رضایی؛ مهدی افشار؛ معصومه عسگری؛ هستندنقل از متن: آنگاه کلاه طلائی بر سر بگذار، اگر برمیانگیزدش، اگر توان بالا جستنت هست، به خاطرش نیز به جست و خیز درآی، تا بدانجا که فریاد برآورد: عاشق، ای عاشق بالا جهنده ی کلاه طلائی، مرا تو باید.
“Gatsby believed in the green light, the orgastic future that year by year recedes before us. It eluded us then, but that’s no matter—tomorrow we will run faster, stretch out our arms farther. . . . And then one fine morning—So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past”
CHARACTERSEven if you like celebrity parties, there are no good, pleasant characters; it may start off glamourising such lives, but things are very different by the end.
ARTIFICESome people see through the artifice: "She was appalled by West Egg [the village], this unprecedented 'place' that Broadway had begotten upon a Long Island fishing village - appalled by its raw vigour that chafed under the old euphemisms and by the too obtrusive fate that herded its inhabitants along a short-cut from nothing to nothing."RELEVANCE TODAYAmericans often have strong feelings about this book because of the way it explores (and, initially at least, admires) The American Dream.
The characters themselves seem shallow and empty, lacking in morality and you could take all this into consideration and instantly report: ‘well that’s a shallow book if ever I’ve heard of one.’ However it can also be seen that, The Great Gatsby is a scathing social commentary that explores the fruitlessness of pursuing dreams.
To that end The Great Gatsby is a brilliant piece of fiction designed to criticise the lack of morality among its rich and selfish inhabitants who parasitically devour the work of the poor.One of the most beautiful elements in this novel is the depiction of the Valley of Ashes, which ultimately all the characters pass through regardless of being rich or poor.
„Der große Gatsby" is a truly brilliant and dazzling masterpiece. The book is written in such a way you cant stop reading it, because the language and presentation are stylistic and atmospheric. But you should read this book carefully. I am enthusiastic about the verbosity of this writer. Overall, the characters were very successful and unique. This story was definitely a highlight for me. Its story and a character which I absolutely like. Almost quietly and calmly, he brings us closer to the mi
The book is written in such a way you can´t stop reading it, because the language and presentation are stylistic and atmospheric.
But you should read this book carefully.
Overall, the characters were very successful and unique.
This story was definitely a highlight for me.
It´s story and a character which I absolutely like.
Without a doubt this book is considered as one of the greatest novels of his time and offers an exciting view of former times and the people who lived in it.
Se me olvidó actualizar la info de este libro en GR, oops. Luego dejo un review por acá, aunque ya expliqué mi sentir en el Wrap up de Los Juegos de Booktube, en el canal.OH, y no estoy segura del rating que le puse al libro, en estos días pensaré si debo subirlo o bajarlo, sigo muy pensativa al respecto.
I have never been able to look at a set of deer antlers without blushing ever again.) And I must say that these new franchised-out novels like The Late Gatsby (Jay as vampire, inevitable I suppose),  The Grape Gatsby (must be aimed at the vegan crowd) and The Lesbian Gatsby (in which – surprise – he never was a man), followed up by The Straight Gatsby - and The Groped Gatsby in which he was recovering from sexual abuse at the hands of Warren Harding - what can one say - The Ingrate Gatsby (in which he doesn't get rich and is really bitter) - must have literature fans gnawing each other’s kindles in sheer angst.
I have even seen a superhero graphic novel called Batgatsby.
Jay Gatsby, is a mysterious young man, who gives extravagant parties on Long Island, New York, outside his palatial mansion , in the warm, lazy, summer nights.
Finally attending one of his own gatherings, we discover that he's after Daisy, a lost love, she's married, which complicates the delicate situation.
Nick, Daisy's cousin, arrives in town and through him, reunites Gatsby with his former girlfriend, she enjoys luxury, which is why Daisy married rich Tom and not poor Jay. A catastrophic car accident kills Tom's girlfriend, yes, he's a creep but a wealthy one, it's vague who's responsible, but her husband thinks he knows.
However, even before I began this Reading Challenge I knew that I needed to change that.
I'm still not overly enamoured with Modern Classics (though they tend to be a lot shorter than Victorian Classics are, which can come as a relief) but I am thoroughly enjoying the journey through the genre.This book was quite a disappointment and not a surprise at the same time.
I knew I wasn't going to love it before I went in to it, though I don't know why.
I just knew I wouldn't love it.I didn't think I wouldn't like it, though.
and maybe goodreads will choose to make this a "hidden" review under their new policies, but i don't care, because it makes me so angry that this is happening in this way that i have to scream about it, even if no one hears me, and there isn't enough room in a status update for me to vent my rage, and this is a book community, and i feel like you should all feel and share my outrage...WHO THOUGHT LEONARDO DICAPRIO WOULD MAKE A GOOD GATSBY??
It's so good that almost daily I wish I could experience this for the first time again.What really makes The Great Gatsby unique is that EVERYONE at some point in life wants to be great in just the way that Jay does--for reasons more or less the same.
Combine that with the fact that all the characters are despicable--but so well written that you can't help but root for them and grow emotionally attached to them--and also how effortlessly the words transport you back in time, and The Great Gatsby truly becomes a one-of-a-kind story.Then there's the love story in which someone as mystically personable as Jay Gatsby falls for someone as pathetically self-centered and stupid as Daisy Buchanan.
There once was a man they called Jay,A symbol of Jazz Age decay.And just as Scott held aFixation for Zelda,Jay’s Daisy dream sure made him pay!
