https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18814109-life-application-study-bible-kjv
An excellent study Bible. Lots of interesting information to go along with the text including biographical information about the characters. It also has very good references tying verses together and a great collection of maps.
This is the one I use as Church since it let me know what a verse is talking about. Only read KJV bibles!
This is the bible I use when I need to reference maps and history and not just text but uncommon knowledge of the time the stories take place. I cannot recommend this one enough.
Excellent bible for visual readers, and readers that easily become bored by all the black and white books out there.
Full Color just as promised, filled with Chronological Charts and Biblical organized according to historical events of the bible.
This bible is far more superior than any other bible out there, that the reason it's so pricey, plus there's commentary and broken down description of understanding events, philosophy, and biblical figures.
You want become bored because it's so visual and that worth investing in because many bible's are only black and white, which in science matters tires your eyes because the brain becomes fatigue with all the other black-white books you read.
I like Biblical history so I was interested in having a chronological study of the Bible.The ten historical eras outlined, along with the books of the Bible you will find in each, are Beginnings undated-2100 BC, God's Chosen Family 2100-1800 BC, Birth of Israel 1800-1406 BC, Possessing the Land 1406-1050 BC, United Monarchy 1050-930 BC, Splintered Nation 930-586 BC, Exile 586-538 BC, Return & Diaspora 538-6 BC, Jesus Christ 6 BC-AD 30, The Church Ad 30-present.At the top of each page is highlighted of the section you are reading.
Read I & II Samuel, I & II Kings, and, St. John This is a really lovely, inspiring, interesting, bible to use - can't recommend it highly enough.
I love the Bible, for it is the Word of God. I try my best to read it through each year, but sometimes I don't quite make it.
This attractively designed, resource-laden Bible provides you with every tool imaginable when it comes to helping you to dig deep into God’s Holy Word.The most distinguishing feature about the Chronological Life Application Study Bible is that the books of the Bible are taken out of the traditional order that we are accustomed to seeing them arranged in and placed in chronological order.
The Chronological Life Application Study Bible helps the reader see the larger story by breaking up the traditional books of the Bible into 10 major eras of biblical history, intermingling the Scripture into a single, unified story from Creation to the end.
I really like this study Bible because it goes through the historical context - which has helped me understand much more in my reading. It has profiles of many people in the Bible, and helps you draw lessons from the reading as you go along.
Im reading in John Starting today, loved Matthew, Mark and Luke so far
This book will always be a part of my collection. It has helped me in more ways than I can express. If I didn't read this Book...I'd be lost! :o)
