https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24876258-the-aeronaut-s-windlass
3.75
There are some interesting worldbuilding ideas here, and I can see potential in the world this book takes place in, but the story is really generic so far, the characters are kind of generic, and for the love of god, can we please stop having chapters from the point of view of the freaking cat please!?!?!
The entire book is nothing but setup, but there are no objectionably horrible plot devices like the cats, and a good many of the cast of characters have a lot of personality and, if they're not really good people, you can at least sympathize with them, and root for them when the story is being told from their point of view.
Alternate title:How To Use SteamPunk Words to Market to Genre Readers: Jim's Attempt to Cash in on the Wild Popularity of Dresden Files
The antagonists are a bit cartoonish at times, especially Cavendish, but the two main Auroan soldiers felt more nuanced though.This story is very character-driven, but Mr. Butcher has created a pretty interesting world for them to inhabit.
Things end in a pretty good spot, especially considering this is the first book in a series.
There are plenty of questions left to be answered, but most of the main conflicts of this book are either resolved, or put on hold nicely.Overall if you enjoy Mr. Butcher other work, or enjoy character-driven faced paced action packed stories, pick this one up.
For me the set of mind i have before starting a new book is very important, it kinda sets the pace of reading and my reaction with the words and the author's style , so for this book : from the 1st page i connected with it simply because it's a Jim Butcher novel, it's like buying or going to the movies and you're familiar with the leading actor/actress and s/he never/rarely disappoint, so awesomeness is pretty much guaranteed .
This book started with an unusual confrontation between a mother and her daughter ...
All in all a very exciting read.
Where Jim Butcher's steampunk(ish) adventure fell a bit short, however, was in terms of characterization and description.The characters here are all genre archetypes, as if Butcher was just going down a list, making sure he checked all the boxes.
Initially, I wasn't too thrilled with the inclusion of talking cats, but Rowl defintitely has his moments, rising about the animal-familiar archetype to become one of my favorite characters.Ultimately, The Aeronaut's Windlass is a fun read, but neither a deep one nor a particularly memorable one.
I'm pretty sure everyone and their dog is going to read this regardless of my "review" so I thought I'd shake things up (don't hold your breath).
(As if I would do a review like this out of laziness, come on!)Random Thoughts While Reading The Aeronaut's Windlass:1.
They're sentient beings that most of the world thinks are vermin, but they have their own language, their own ways, everything and humans can even communicate if they take the time to learn.
And they act just like cats who could do all those things.
Luckily I had a physical copy of the book to look things up (like "mistmaw").6.
If I had read more naval fiction in my life I daresay it wouldn’t have struck me as quite so fresh but, not having yet made the time to read Captain Horatio Hornblower or Master and Commander, I really enjoyed the stubbornly noble and vastly capable Captain Grimm, his loyal crew and their air battles.
I will read any new Dresden Files book as soon as it comes out, and considering it’s one of only a few long-running urban fantasy series I’m actually all caught up with, I’d say I’m pretty invested and the character and stories.
I feel Butcher is at his best when he’s writing modern characters in modern settings, where his clever humor and penchant for hilarious pop culture references can fully come into play—which is precisely what makes his urban fantasy so delightful and fun to read.
Enemy, capital E." (view spoiler)[ possibly a later Jurrasic Park kind of surprise  (hide spoiler)] Something New Building a world where magic and technology coexist, where battles are fought with ship cannons, rattling sabers and muskets side by side with Force Shields, Power Rays, Mental Choking Grips and other assorted mind games, is not an easy task, but I believe Butcher pulled this off well here.
And a Silver Sixpence in Her Shoe  Actually in Jim's pocket, since I decided to continue with the series, hoping it will not become a drawn out money grabbing machine, and that my past disenchantments both with the Dresden Files and with Codex Alera, both after strong debut novels, will be proven wrong.Four fun-filled, action packed, but thin gilded stars.
They travel to and from these spires via airships that are steam-driven, but seem mostly happy to stay on the spire they live on, unless they are one of the many merchants or privateers who own airships and thus spend most of their time in the air or part of the spire’s airfleet and thus also airbound.Captain Grimm is one of the owners of such a vessel - a privateer vessel named the Predator who has a bit of a run-in with a legendary enemy vessel that he cannot hope to defeat, but luckily he avoids complete destruction and is confined to Spire Albion while his ship awaits repairs.
Perhaps if this novel had come out a decade ago, I'd have been so damn impressed and enthused with the whole idea that I'd have enthusiastically endorsed it regardless of a decent story, especially if the characters were bright and delicious.I was anxious.
I don't think I'm alone in a hope that a new category opens up for Hugo Series Winners, or a little more realistically, Best Novel in A Series for 20** year.
I am a huge fan of Jim Butcher's Harry Dresden series.
The story does have a rather large cast of characters to keep track of but they will fall into place pretty quickly.
You will (i think) get into the book's action and story very quickly.
However that doesn't last and the book always pulls itself back onto the main track.The book (for those of you who like me are Dresden fans) is told in third person rather than first this of course allows JB to move from character to character with an omnipotent voice.
I amused myself by imagining certain characters as other fictional creations - like the Big Bad as that spider-woman Digimon and the etherealists as the Lovegoods from Harry Potter.
Given how the last 2 Dresden Files took 15 months to be released (vs.
12 or fewer months for the previous 11 books), it was already unlikely that Dresden 15 would come out this year.
Cold Days is good but very unsatisfying given the dip in quality compared to past books.
I don't see why it took so long...maybe writing something non-Dresden will make Butcher reinvigorated and thus bring us another great File next year?
Edited 10/30/15 I've heard Jim say that he enjoys goggles with steam-punk cosplay so much, that when he built the world for this series, he essentially started the worldbuilding around the question, "Why do the 'aeronauts' need goggles?" And yaknow, it worked out swell!This book is in 3rd person limited to various characters’ perspective.
Jim has been doing an excellent job of making the perspective/voice of the different characters unique and interesting.As the first in the series, it starts out by introducing a group of characters that the ruler of "Spire Albion" assembles into kind of a troubleshooting team.
Bridget had no notion whatsoever how the prim little noblewoman managed to load so much arrogance and confidence into her seemingly fatuous tone.“Honestly,” Rowl said.
“To be frightened of them is of no use to you.”A human of significantly less clumsiness than most came aboard, a small male, and despite its diminutive stature, it moved with a warrior’s confidence and wore a very large and fine hat.Such hats often signified humans who considered themselves important, which was adorable for the first few moments and trying ever after.The visitor had, however, entered the ship as if waiting to be permitted on another’s territory, which was the proper way to do things.
I know he's wildly popular for his 'paranormal investigation' series, and I've read a few of his short stories in that vein, but fantasy-adventure & steampunk as genres are more up my alley, so I thought that this would be an excellent place to get more familiar with the author.It wasn't terrible.
(A bit of an issue there, as the airship crews don't seem to have protective gear keeping them away from the air...) (hide spoiler)].We've got two female main characters (whom I ended up differentiating by thinking "the big one" and "the small one," which doesn't really say a lot for their depth of character), and male counterparts for them.
This was set in a world where humanity shelters in towering Spires from the ravages of the mysterious mist-shrouded surface world.
If I had a criticism it was that Butcher was a bit flimsy with the world building and description and it was sometimes hard to form any more than a vague picture of his world.
We had a bunch of POV characters, most from Spire Albion where the majority of the story took place, and they were all engaged in missions aimed at preventing invasions and infiltrations by Spire Aurora agents and airships.
Reading a Jim Butcher book is always a labor of love.
I think I could have happily read an entire book with Rowl as the sole protagonist.
(insert random cat gif here)Captain Grimm is a typical Jim Butcher hero - a little battered by the vagaries of fate, but honorable and smart and absolutely worth rooting for.
Action, adventure, pretty girls, good guys, bad guys, strange guys, talking cats, AIRSHIPS(!!!!), lots of pseudo-scientific mansplaining to show that it's "serious" fantasy and sheer unadulterated fun times.And on a side note, can I just congratulate Jim for not falling into the clockwork trap?
Thank you godJim!Would I recommend this book to a Jim Butcher fan?
As a big fan of Jim Butcher’s Harry Dresden series, I’ve been looking forward to reading this foray of his into the world of steampunk mixed with magic.
I also mostly liked the characters, but felt they were a bit flat and weren’t as interesting as Butcher could have made them.
Jim Butcher is such a good writer and has created some great characters in his Dresden series, that maybe now that he has established his new world, he might be able to invest more in the characters.
And did I mention, it was a lot of fun to read.
This is by the author of that great series, the Dresden Files, of which I have read every single book.
So of course I had to try this new series too and I am very glad I did.
Firstly it is nothing like the Dresden Files whatsoever.
Most of the time I had to keep reminding myself that I was NOT reading a book by Brandon Sanderson, and that's a big compliment because he is one of my top five authors.
I became so attached to the characters I was seriously scared that any of them might die and boy did they come close at times.
I bring this up because this may very well end up being one of the bigger critique points of this series; this particular style can be difficult to follow if you spread out your reading sessions, so essentially what I’m getting at is that this is not a “lunch break” kind of novel!I’m assuming that Grimm is going to be the main honcho of THE CINDER SPIRES, although I’m not ruling Gwendolyn, Benedict, Bridget, Rowl, Ferus, or Folly out yet either because several of them had a comparable presence.
I am a huge fan of Jim Butcher's Harry Dresden series.
The story does have a rather large cast of characters to keep track of but they will fall into place pretty quickly.
You will (i think) get into the book's action and story very quickly.
However that doesn't last and the book always pulls itself back onto the main track.The book (for those of you who like me are Dresden fans) is told in third person rather than first this of course allows JB to move from character to character with an omnipotent voice.
It's a solid steampunk fantasy book--nothing revolutionary, just *fun*, and I can see great potential in future books of the series.Basically, The Aeronaut's Windlass takes place in a world where humanity lives in outrageously tall structures called Spires, which were built thousands and thousands of years before, and whose origins are shrouded.
They both could easily have fallen into the trap of the mad character, but they don't, and I ended up loving both of them (especially Folly) by the end.All of these people are brought together when a neighboring Spire declares war on Spire Albion, and they are sent on a covert mission to gather intelligence for the coming battles.Mostly I think my theory holds about Jim Butcher, that he's just not great at beginnings of stories.
The world is interesting; a great steampunk and traditional fantasy mix, and I am looking forward to more world building and character development in the next books in the series.
If you like cats you will love this book.
I loved the addition of Rowl the cat, and I think this book would be appropriate for my teen daughter to read even though it's written for adults.
I think besides Rowl, what I liked the most about this book were the airship battles and the quirky etherealists.
I loved the etherealists and can't wait to read more about them in coming books.
This was written by Jim Butcher and it had warrior cats in it that can speak.
I mean, honestly, what else can a hungover reader want in a bit of light entertainment?No, it's not the same as his Codex series or the Dresden one.
In any case, being a crazy cat person, Butcher could probably have taken out all the humans and i'd still have enjoyed it as much.
It's a fun read: some fighting, a few betrayals, a bit of romance, surprises here and there, warrior cats that speak.
No. But I will read the next one.
A new series from butcher which shows how good a writer he has come.It does suffer with first book in a series problems, like not enough world building and at the time been not enough is known about the characters and their histories, in other words we dont know what makes them kick.I did enjoy this book, a slow start but the last 200 pages is non stop action which I couldnt put it down. So I ended up read that section in about 3 hours of non stop reading.recommended for fantasy fans. And fantasy CAT LOVERS.
Very different to the epic fantasy, grimdark and scifi I normally read, but oh what a refreshing change.Crystal powered air ships and sword wielding, incredibly polite, officers; gunnery crews and tribal, characterful cats! They all come together in a complex web of intrigue and humour and action, set amongst mist filled skies and sky scraping spires both.The best narration I've heard of a story so far, after months on Audible. Highly recommended to fantasy, scifi or steampunk fans.
Well, that was disappointing. I don't even really know what the plot was. I just liked the cat...
Would ANYONE be surprised if I said that this was great? No? Good. Because it is. Typical Butcher: ooh, look, new environment and concept set, guess I'll just make myself at home. Steampunkish in that it features airships and tea, this is a long way from the clockwork heartlands. It's more like Butcher's quasi-Roman Alera. It's immediately compelling, has a new engineering and a new magic. It's huge fun. Shocking, eh?
