https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1006306.The_Savage_God
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Plath: “The Savage God - A Study of Suicide” by Al Alvarez(Original Review, 2002)“Suicide is, after all, the result of a choice.
However impulsive the action and confused the motives, at the moment when a man finally decides to take his own life he achieves a certain temporary clarity.
They deliberately use suicide to create an unencumbered reality for themselves or to break through the patterns of obsession and necessity which they have unwittingly imposed on their lives.”In “The Savage God - A Study of Suicide” by Al Alvarez
Kafka wrote to a friend:The books we need are the kind that act upon us like a misfortune, that make us suffer like the death of someone we love more than ourselves, that make us feel as through we were on the verge of suicide, or lost in a forest remote from all human habitation - a book should serve as the axe for the frozen sea within us.(Kafka is viewed by Alvarez as a failed suicide, he attempted to kill himself postmortem through the destruction of all his writing.
A literary and philosophical investigation on death and suicide, but this is something much more than that.
Sylvia Plath, the great tragedy of her death - and our dear author, who has mercifully survived, if only to tell us about this torment.Sandwiched in between these very personal stories is a careful and tender analysis of the myths, beliefs, and possible grasping and contradictory attempts at understanding suicide.
Sacrifice for the nation, for an idea, a race, a belief.The trend of the creator and self-destroyer continues today.
Suicide today is still seldom spoken of, and Alvarez speaks of it with candor and sympathy.
SleepUnknownICanInDeathEscape
"'An act like this,' said Camus, 'is prepared within the silence of the heart, as is a great work of art.'" In The Savage God, Al Álvarez examines suicide through a variety of lenses: personal, historical, psychiatric, philosophical, cultural, and literary. The book contains a great deal of thought-provoking material on a notoriously difficult subject. It is well worth reading. Álvarez begins by discussing Sylvia Plath’s life, work, and eventual suicide. He then proceeds to look at suicide from
"'An act like this,' said Camus, 'is prepared within the silence of the heart, as is a great work of art.'"
In The Savage God, Al Álvarez examines suicide through a variety of lenses: personal, historical, psychiatric, philosophical, cultural, and literary.
Álvarez begins by discussing Sylvia Plath’s life, work, and eventual suicide.
The first is his examination of the emotions, mood, and general mental state experienced by many suicidal individuals.
And perhaps what finally makes him kill himself is not the firmness of his resolve but the unbearable quality of this anguish which belongs to no one, of this suffering in the absence of the sufferer, of this waiting which is empty because life has stopped and can no longer fill it.”
C'mon, all you morbid types, you know you want to read a well-researched yet compulsively readable study of suicide. & all of us morbid girls who still want to know a bit too much about S. Plath--well, the intro's all about her. And his description of his own attempt is refreshingly unsentimental yet eminently fascinating.

What shelf do you put a literary approach to suicide on?
Any way, have put it in 'spirit'.
Good overview of historical attitides to suicide, psych etc.
and very personal on the death of his friend Sylvia Plath, and his own attempted suicide.
Have read it a few times, and if I had a suicide shelf would have this as a key text.
Suicide, as in, to do with existentialism rather than depression, by the way, the sort of 'can't take any more'/ 'I will punish you' acts of suicide important of course, but part only of a much bigger and fascinating set of questions.
Sadly, some poets are more famous for the fact that they committed suicide than for their work. If for no other reason than this, The Savage God was a book that had to be written. It could be argued that in some ways, Alvarez wrote this book in part to work out his own personal experiences: not only was he a friend of Sylvia Plath, but he also attempted suicide himself.
I read this for the chapters about Sylvia Plath. Always a fascinating subject to me.
the author was/is a literary critic and this can often become very clear, and very tiresome to someone who, picking up a book on suicide, is not too inclined to revisit, repeatedly, things like arguing with sylvia plath about whether the phrase "the nude/verdigris of the condor" is too "exaggerated, morbid" and if it should be left in the piece she is writing or not.
"a study of suicide." in that specific plath instance, he does admit to the criticism being a way to distance himself emotionally from the situation and emotions of it at the time, but i'm not sure that he realizes that he returns to this very same crutch throughout the book for what i can only assume is for the same personal effect.
The Savage God  is very readable which is perhaps surprising for a book that is so very well-researched and referenced. The only time it has any suggestion of turgidity is when it quotes from sociologists, pointing out how language can be used to make things less accessible. As a student I often wondered why sociologists felt the need to jargonize and disguise things which were actually quite easy concepts to fathom until they got their learned mitts on them. Anyway, I digress, what Al Alvarez
The bun is the story of Sylvia Plath at the beginning and the account of his own failed suicide attempt at the end; the meat is the research he has done on suicide and literature through the ages.
Not, as he is quick to point out, fictional suicides but the suicides, suicidal thoughts and failed suicide attempts of many writers and artists.
In any case Sylvia Plath is not the whole point of the book and he does say her suicide does not add to her reputation as a poet.
In the first, Alvarez discusses the suicide of Sylvia Plath.
In the last chapter, Alvarez talks in painful detail about his own failed suicide attempt.
In the middle sections of the book, Alvarez explores the idea of suicide throughout history, clumsily quoting literary figures along the way.
Like I said, the best parts of this book are when Alvarez stops relying on outside sources and writes about his own experiences.
A very interesting read - I only wish Alvarez would have had a little more faith in his own insights and not relied so much on other sources.
Me encanta que no mencionen números o cifras sobre el suicidio. No reduce el suicidio a algo que se puede medir matemáticamente o explicar científicamente. Este libro habla desde lo más profundo del ser humano, menciona distintas situaciones que llevan al suicidio y logra generar un grado de entendimiento respecto a las personas que deciden actuar de esa forma. Ojalá este libro fuese más conocido y más hablado, especialmente en la sociedad del día de hoy.
He seems to have a grasp of the sources available almost 50 years ago (The Savage God was first published in 1971) and uses them sparingly but well.Addendum a few days later:Alvarez begins his impressive though deeply flawed study of suicide among the creative leaders of society with an account of the death of his friend, Sylvia Plath.
Alvarez ends the book with a detailed and clinical that, due to its restraint, was a searing and emotional account of his own suicide attempt in which he took handfuls of sleeping pills washed down with whiskey.
Despite media blowhards’ constant assertion that suicide is at an all-time high, nothing could be further from the truth.
Suicide wasn’t always the social and moral taboo it is in modern times.
The ancient Greeks even pragmatically established legal guidelines for the act:Whoever no longer wishes to live shall state his reasons to the Senate, and after having received permission shall abandon life.
If you are bowed with grief, abandon life.
– SenecaListen to the newborn infant’s cry in the hour of birth—see the death struggles in the final hour—and then declare whether what begins and ends in this way can be intended to be enjoyment.
The overall lesson here is simple (and applies as well to the other two), though it does a disservice to these engaging books to reduce it to such: the human being does have and has always had many possible reasons for committing suicide.
Alvarez surveys the reasons as well as the theories, often paying close attention to writers and other artists.There's not only much to learn and much to think about here; there's also much to please anyone who loves "quotable quotes." (Again, that's also true of the other books I named.) I'll give only one, which Alvarez borrows from Erwin Stengel: "At some stage of evolution man must have discovered that he can kill not only animals and fellow-men but also himself.
Sandwiched between two slices of personal recollection, the book is essentially a history of poetry as existentialism coming to know itself: through the prism of the changing artistic conceptions of suicide, and the puzzling meanderings of its reception, Alvarez paints in broad strokes the shifting self-image of the writer, starting in ancient times down to the sixties.
But within this frame, Alvarez displays a bewildering range of sources, classics and more obscure, as well as a fine modest analysis.
This book is (understandably) limited in its Eurocentricism and its reliance on speculation about its subjects' thought processes. I'd also argue that Alvarez assigns too much importance to Freudian theory, but as long as one isn't expecting a totally scientific/empirically researched volume, this is a fascinating read that inspires reflection, not just about suicide and its motivators, but about the nature of good, enduring art and the creative process.
Alvarez, is an amazing writer, and this is one of the most insightful and beautiful books on suicide I have ever read.Alvarez may be considered a minor poet, but he is a God among critics, with the heart of a very great poet.
Had some interesting information, but was so hard for me to understand. Clearly written by a scholar who likes really big words:)
It is that, despite through the work coming to realize the non-representational nature of death, the elusive absence that haunts the visage if those who near the impossible, Alvarez still attempts to write of death, to represent it, rather than to write from out of death, to allow death's absence the space of abidance.As for the work itself, I thought the section Modern Art was alright, but the rest of it was nothing special, and nothing that couldn't be found better explicated elswhere.The book, like Alvarez's own attempt at his own death, falls stillborn.
In the words of this book I am a suicidologist, and so was a bit disappointed as I was looking for something constructive or original insight for suicide prevention here.Al Álvarez is a poet critic, and just about succeeds in describing suicide to a casually morbid layperson audience.
The epilogue is a bit vain—did Álvarez really need to give a detailed account of his own attempt at the end of a book about Plath's attempts and the place of suicide and literature?
The strength of this book is really in Álvarez's account of Sylvia Plath's death.
Instead this is a book where the author himself works to better understand suicide by reflecting on his own personal experiences and his study of literary history.
By studying a few famous suicides in history I think the author was trying to get a handle on this complex issue, but he only really suceeds in making suicides look a little childish and foolish, like artists and sad writers throwing tantrums because life is not going their way.
In the end the author reaches no useful conclusions and leaves little in the way of food-for-thought.

One of my favorite works of fiction during my adolescence was Judith Guest's Ordinary People. Through reading various works of Alice Miller, including The Drama of the Gifted Child, and Alvarez's The Savage God, I made an attempt to understand and conquer the self-destructive aspects of my personality.
OK, so how does one "like" a book on suicide - you can't really! But for someone to actually sit down and write SO MUCH about it! Phew. You gotta give this man credit for that. It's just a pity that he didn't consult Ted Hughes before writing so much detail about Sylvia Plath's suicide in the preamble. Hughes was furious about it and you can't blame him.
The author begins on a personal note, with the suicide of his friend Silvia Plath, and ends with a description of his own suicide attempt. In between, he discusses how suicide has been viewed at various times in history and how it has affected great literature. Much to think about.
excellent historical account. very interesting and informative.
To go with my new job, I reread this. I love this book, as morbid as it is.
