https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19821.Riddle_Master
Anyway, I was pretty well read in the fantasy genre for a teenager of my time .
And as the two stumble blindly from one terrifying encounter to another, Morgon begins to see that only by solving the riddle of the three stars upon his forehead can he uncover his own destiny!I know, I know it sounds like a standard fantasy stories from the time period.
No, Riddle-Master might not be a novel read often anymore, but it is one that should be.
With the series, McKillip brought an elegance and beauty to the fantasy genre that I personally had not experienced to that time.
So, yeah, I read those a long time ago.
But beyond that, there's not much fantasy literature that's essential reading.
So, for a long time, I didn't read any.
It's been that long ago.All I can remember is sitting for hours, slack-jawed and amazed.
I don't really remember the details of the story very well, but I still feel it.I was sad when I finished the Riddlemaster trilogy, but excited to have found something I loved so much, so I went looking for more beautiful fantasy literature.
It's been my favorite source of entertainment since.Read more Patricia McKillip book reviews at Fantasy Literature .
However, the major differing point for McKillip's novel is that she (unlike many of the Fantasy novelists of her time) explores the concept of a FEMALE heroine - in fact, an entire book of the trilogy is dedicated to the growth and cultivation of Raederle's "inheritance," as it were.I would definitely suggest this book, primarily as either brainfood immediately prior to or following the reading of the Lord of the Rings trilogy - a little lighter, a bit easier to "digest," it calms the mind and forces it to walk those strange paths...
"Weak" story???
"Shallow world-building and characters"?????
Compared to most of the shallow, sloppy fantasies that are being cranked out these days, this trilogy is absolutely singular in terms of story, world-building, and character development.
This is one I come back to--it never disappoints.
It was written in the 70s, and while McKillip admits being influenced by Tolkien, she succeeds in creating a unique, complex, and meticulously layered world that completely works on its own.
Definitely in the high fantasy category.
Unfortunately, her subsequent books haven't even come close (due to the complaints of the previous reviewer about this one).
Here is why:The way McKillip's "magic" system works is so utterly unique that I dare not compare it to anything.
You understand the thing completely and you are magically connected to it, able to be it or to use it against others.
I sometimes had to read something twice and ask myself, "What the hell just happened?" She makes it quite clear for the reader by the end, and at points throughout the book.
It's a feeling of, "Things really are this way.
I might not say he's my favorite fantasy character of all time (thinking of LOTR's Aragorn or Coldfire's Hunter), but he's up at the top.
I can't recommend this book.Much is made of the dreamlike quality of McKillip's prose, but I found that this detracted from what could have otherwise been a memorable and different fantasy setting.
Here are a few of those plot points:We get no real reason to believe in the relationships between characters, as their backgrounds are so sketchily drawn.
What's a Morgol (or a land-ruler for that matter), and why should we care?
By book three, so much of the backstory had been forgotten that it was difficult to care what became of the characters.
The Riddle-Master of Hed (be honest: that is an awesome title) takes Morgon through the six kingdoms - this will be important later, I won't tell you how because one of the joys of these books is seeing how something that seems like a lovely bit of detail becomes terribly important later on - and in each kingdom he's confronted with something, and each time he tries to opt out.
I should not even have to say that, should I?!But this other relationship takes the whole trilogy to relate, and is done with a light touch that moves exquisitely, even a sentence is sometimes all that is said, a look, a gesture, a posture.Characters, motives, rich contexts, imagination, high romance (not the sexual kind), high drama, and multiple, colourful, likeable individuals shown in depth as well as a strong plot woven in complex layers, are all strengths of this work.
If I was limited to one word alone, I would say atmospheric.
Good Fantasy, if somewhat a little predictable. The writing however is pure poetry. McKillip's mastery of the English language is downright breathtaking!
The plane landed when I had finished all but one chapter, and I ran to the baggage claim to sit down and finish it.The story was compelling, the writing was exquisite, and McKillip manages the nearly impossible -- in writing about emotions and experiences that are impossible to put into words, she suggests them so well that the reader is able to feel them.
For people who like their descriptions concrete, or who prefer events to be clearly explained, or who want explanations that are stated directly rather than implied, it would probably make for very frustrating reading.The best advice I can give to a would-be reader who is not familiar with McKillip's writing style is to not think about it too much while you're reading it -- just experience it.
I'm really trying to read more books written by ladies pre-2000 in SFF.
I have to say I was frustrated by this volume as although I think it wraps things up well enough I felt like this really reverted back to many of the problems I had with book #1.
In the end I gave this on 2*s overall becuase it's not a bad book, but it was just an okay read for me.
I felt like there was a lot of convenient/predictable stuff happening with the plot, and I also wish it had been a bit more emotional rather than long-winded.
The sense of urgency as the hero of the story races to save his life builds to near tangibility.
McKillip has an almost lyrical quality to her work that reminds me of the songs found in Lord of the Rings.Also, one of the things that I look for in a fantasy book is an interesting system of (or at least an interesting take on) magic.
Most of the magic throughout is inherently tied to the feudalistic system of land-rule that governs the world in this book.
Common McKillip themes exemplified by this trilogy:1) There is nothing which cannot be faced, endured, known, understood. 2) Art conquers all misfortunes. 3) The mind is the most powerful weapon.4) He who plays God had better be prepared to be God, especially when God turns up and wants his housekeys back.5) Mess with teenage girls and the shit will be on.6) Stand by your man. Even if it means turning pirate to hunt the dead bastard down.
I bought and read this book on the recommendation of several family members who had read the original books when they were first published (and when they were much younger readers).Compared with the other fantasy novels that I've read, this is among my least favorite for the following reasons: Lack of background on the world Lack of depth to the characters Lack of conflict and plot Poor dialog & formattingThe story was mildly interesting, but has been done several times before and at this point isn't anything new.First, the formatting of this book was poor and may be the result of the three original novels being combined into a single edition.
While McKillip's prosaic writing is masterful, it also makes the book very difficult to read. I found myself screaming, "just get on with it!". While the most interesting characters were never fully developed, the title character was overdeveloped and unlikeable. I grew weary of the constant whining over his destiny, remorse for things he did, or expostulating on everything from life mysteries to romantic endeavors. She wanted to create a Tolkein-like world, but ended up with only the dismal shadows of the most obscure parts of Middle Earth. It's like a beautiful abstract painting ... that gives you a headache.
But I love its care for knowledge, the way it invests in the structure of the quest as fundamentally an epistemological one, a need to know, seeking as the solving of riddles or, more simply, asking and sometimes answering of questions.
Institutions of knowledge, generations of scholarship, teaching and learning—these are books that know what seeking really is.
In other words, it's a set of responses to patriarchy written by a woman.Anyway, recommended for people who wish they could get back the hours of their adolescence they devoted to the Wheel of Time.
So Morgon fights against destiny, because it’s what’s expected and because narrative feeds on tension, but we know he will at last accept his allotted role.The gnomic titles of the three parts tell you all you need to know: The Riddle-Master of Hed is about Morgon, Heir of Sea and Fire describes the part Raederle has to play, while Harpist in the Wind hints at the final resolution to all conundrums, involving both music and the elements.
За щастие на нормалния читател обаче, Маккилип отмята воала от мъглива , макар красива неяснота, и подрежда фигурките пред очите ни, все така великолепни, но много по-разбираеми със своите доводи и действия, повтарящи се и обясняващи честичко по-смътните моменти в играта си.
Дали е плюс или огромна загуба това залитане в безмилостните закони на фентъзи логиката след зарята от вълшебленна чудесийност ( изисква си го случая точно толкова отнесен термин, да ) е трудно да се определи от мен, но във всеки случай подобрява читаемостта и печели още фенове към завладяващата си проза.Маккилип е от шепата авторки – думомагьосници, създаващи искрени преживявания от досега с книжното тяло, а не просто доволство от поглъщането на поредния фентъзи текст.
On the other hand, this book was a bit dense in places and I didn't really feel that it helped the narrative to circle back and back to certain things, and there were parts where I just wanted to know what was happening and it was a little vague.
It doesn't help that the writing style is not always the most straight-forward, and while the setting was great, the characters solid, and the reveals and twists quite good, I couldn't help but feel a little let down by the ending.Not that I'm sure what else could have happened, but it wasn't satisfying to have Morgon solve things the way he did.
The beauty is in the simplicity.
It gives you enough and then leaves you to make your own decisions and think for yourself on some of the moral and fate issues and twists it leaves dangling.
It's one of those books that when you read the end you feel as if you expected it and didn't expect it at the same time and within that dichotomy is a sense of peace and loss because it ends so well but then you know that you can never unread it and reread it.First series I've ever read in which the sequel and last in the trilogy become even better than the first.
telling the tale of a backwater prince (a somewhat large fish in a tiny pond, not entirely unlike certain hobbits) discovering his true destiny and just how important he is to saving the land from an incomprehensible evil, the structure is rather tolkeinesque.
the whole tale could have been an A+ coming of age/adventure tale if told in one book, but spanning three as it does means that there's just far too much "sitting out in the wilderness contemplating the weight of my destiny" stuff going on.
This is my all time favorite series.
Even though it is older than most it just brings me to tears every time I read it.
The hero is so likable, so everyman, that he is easy to identify with, and Raderle, his love interest is so strong, so independent, the entire second book centers on her!
The trilogy makes use of a number of themes from Celtic mythology.The novels take place in a fantasy world divided into a number of countries.
Memorable characters, lands you wish to visit, and at the heart of it all a man and a woman filled with love and magic, running from...
The writing is lovely, almost poetic, which, for me, is both good and bad.
Good, because of course beautiful writing is good, but bad because sometimes my admiration of a particular passage would take me out of the story itself, leaving me a bit less connected to it than I would have been otherwise.Mostly, I really loved the characters, so many of them that I can't even list them all.
While the plot was good (a nice mix of tried-and-true with originality), if I reread these books it will be to revisit the characters.
I had a hard time following the dialogue in places because she doesn't always tell you whose talking and the characters behave in inexplicable ways.
It was hard to read more than 2 pages at a time; I didn't care about the characters; I had problems whenever there was dialogue because she made it hard to know who was speaking and the book needed to be edited down to 2/3 of its original length removing some of the sturm und drang.
I'm sure McKillip got better as a writer after she finished these 3, but it'll be a long time before I pick up one of them.
It pains me to give a fantasy book zero-stars, because fantasy is one of my favourite genres and I usually find something to like in a fantasy book even if I didn't think it was that great.But I can't remember liking anything about The Riddle-Master.
I'd give more details but I read this awhile ago and my only clear memory is having to force myself to finish the book and the whole time I couldn't wait to get it over with.
I really expected to like it, I wanted to like it, but I just didn't.
This is an omnibus edition containing all 3 novels in the series. I would rate the first book (The Riddle Master of Hed) a five (5) star book with the two following not quite up to its standard. This is a great series.
It restored my faith in fantasy and the writing was wonderful -- witty, taut, not overblown. The only thing Tolkien did better was the high seriousness of his resolution. He didn't write as well. (Even McKillip in a forward written for this re-issue says it was all about Tolkien for her, so for the first time I did that, I compared a fantasy to JRRT).
Ma niente è avvenuto per caso, e nel reame custodito dal Supremo strane e terribili forze si stanno muovendo alla ricerca di rivelazioni che ancora Morgon ignora, ma che sente legate al mistero delle tre stelle che porta sulla fronte.
Un viaggio estenuante, commuovente, essenziale, spinge Morgon attraverso i territori sconfinati del reame alla ricerca del suo nome e del suo destino, ora in forma di vesta, ora d'albero, ora di vento.
Ma tutto è mutevole, in questo splendido romanzo, la storia si plasma, cambia forma, e si rimodella ancora, come se la McKillip volesse ingaggiare con il lettore una gara di enigmi in cui entrambi escono vincitori.
The Lord of the Rings meets A Wizard of Earthsea.
It seems he must go on a discovery quest and riddles play an important part as he searches, "It is the one riddle you do not know, not the thousand you do know, that will destroy you." I loved several aspects of this fantasy novel: McKillip's lush Tolkien-like descriptions - "The sunlight seemed to leap goatlike from peak to peak; the air crackled white with the smell of melting ice.", her sensitive touch with emotions, sometimes causing shivers, and a cool concept of The Shout which was manifested by those with magical powers in different ways, causing explosive outcomes.
