https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24833504-walter-the-lazy-mouse
I read this to my 6 year old, and he loved it.
He is so slow and lazy that he never even sees his family because they get everything done before he gets there.
One day, he comes home to find that his family has left and they forgot about him because he was so slow.
After a few days of Walter being lazy the frogs stop coming to see him and forget who he is.
Walter decides he will not be lazy anymore and will do everything with the frogs so they do not forget him again.
Walter meets his family again and decides to stay in school and work hard so he will have more to teach the frogs.
A charming kids story with the original illustrations.
Walter Mouse is very lazy, and gets left behind when his family moved to a new home.
It makes Walter have to get out on his own, and teaches him to appreciate learning, and the need to learn in so many ways.
He makes friends with three frogs, and tries to teach these new friends in his own school.
He teaches them wrong things, which he learns when he goes back home, and goes back to school.
He learns that his family loves and missed him when he was gone, and they come to visit him when he is back with his frog friends, and learns how proud his parents are of him.
Kind of shocked this has been reprinted.. Why? HATE hate the way he is constantly called "lazy", why not Walter: the kid who has neglectful parents? The parents move way and don't seem to even notice he's gone, how sad is that? Could also be called "Parents who have too many kids" (they are rodents after all). Should have stayed in the past with other kid books that aimed to shame kids into "better" behaviour. Why is Walter "lazy" when he's just a little kid? It's obvious this kid feels disconnected from his busy judgey community.
Walter and the Lazy mouse is an adorable classic tale for readers of all ages. It can teach your child or grandchild about the importance of friendship, cooperation, motivation and hard work. Would highly recommend this picture book.
A nice little story with charming illustrations, but the story line was forgettable and the use of repetition was tiresome. My 5 year old enjoyed it, but I found myself looking forward to the end.
Kids' books are nuts.
Natalie gives this 3 stars.
A childhood classic which still delights kids today!
Cute storyCute story about a sweet mouse and his friends. A bit sad because his family moves away without him but we all enjoyed it nonetheless.
Great read aloud for the whole family!
It was a cute story to read to my daughter as a bedtime story. It is an interesting story of friendship. Walter is definitely a funny character and he is a great friend to the frogs and turtle.
A bit like Wind in the Willows!
Marjorie did cute work with the Angus stories, but I didn't like this book much.
This review also appears on my blog, Read-at-Home Mom.Walter is a very lazy mouse.
After getting lost in a dark forest, he makes friends with a turtle and becomes the sole inhabitant of his own island, which he names Mouse Island after himself.
In the end, he overcomes his laziness, and reunites with his family, who realize just how much he has changed.I don't generally like books about talking animals, but this book quickly became an exception.
Walter's story is the kind of adventure kids love to read about, and the way Flack imagines the personalities of different woodland animals really impressed me.
Walter sleeps through his family moving.
A coming of age story, of a mouse.I'm curious why Flack includes the friends Walter encounters along the way.
Three frogs don't need him but they are kind to him, and they listen to what he has to teach (including how to spell write r-i-t-e...).
They in fact don't need him, and forget about him if they don't see him for a few days.
Anyway, my brain cells should be otherwise occupied but now I'm going to be wondering about this for the next few days.A sweet book, ten chapters long, a nice first chapter book (to read aloud or read alone) with many illustrations.
I'm a sucker for an animal story (a guilty reading pleasure of mine), so I instantly purchased it.
However, I did feel kind of bad for Walter when his new frog friends didn't remember him when he was gone for a while, and also when he returned to his school and his family and no one seemed to miss him or notice he was gone all that much.
I mean, didn't anyone bother to LOOK for him?Overall, a cute little animal story that, despite its age (written in 1937), would still be enjoyed by children and adults alike.
Flack fans will want to stick with Ping, after this insubstantial story that follows form for simplistic children's literature of the 1930s and 40s.
Walter's family disappears one day (never explained why) and in a panic he runs away from home and winds up on an island with three vapid and silly frogs with no long-term memory, and a turtle.
He manages to make it after a multitude of mistakes and then is shown the way back to Mouse Village by the turtle.
The art is perfect and delightful, but only a very young child will be entranced by the story.
This is one of my favorite childhood books, and I am really looking forward to seeing the new illustrations in the latest version.Walter is a lazy little mouse.
Being part of a mouse family, he has tons of siblings, but he's always behind - for meals, for school, for everything.
He sets out to find them and ends up being a teacher for three hilarious frogs who can't remember anything from day to day, he builds himself a house, and he is eventually reunited with his family, but now he's a better mouse for his struggles.
Walter is a lazy mouse.
He is so lazy that he never gets up for school.
Finally his family forgets about him and move out, leaving him behind.
Walter sets off to find them.
He tries to teach them math and reading, but since he never got up in time for school, he gets most of it wrong.
He decides to go back to school and finds his family again.
Walter finally learns to be independent and responsible.
I liked this book as a child and it is one of the first ones my oldest daughter read on her own.
Walter is a very lazy mouse.
He sleeps in and is always late to school.
Each day he gets lazier and lazier, he gets up so late that his brothers and sisters are already gone at school, and his parents are busy doing other things-out of the house.
Eventually, he pretty much never sees his family, and as a result, his family forgets all about him.
One day he comes home and his family isn't there!
Neither is all the furniture and all his clothes and things!So Walter sets out to find his family.
Read the book to hear the rest!by Sarita***** FIVE STARS
Walter sleeps late at home, he sleeps during school school. In fact he is so lazy that his parents and teachers don't even miss him when he is not there. His parents eventually move away and Walter is left on his own. He meets 3 frogs and a turtle and tries to make a life with them, but they can't remember him from one day to the next. Don't worry, a family reunion is on the horizon after Walter learns not to be so lazy.
This was my sister's favorite book when she was young - rereading it, I discovered why! A mouse is so lazy that his family forgets all about him and moves. He runs into the forest to find them, and gets lost. He soon befriends three frogs, who choose the names Lulu, Leander, and Percy. In trying to maintain the friendship, he has to give up his lazy habits. A fun story for K-3 children, with charming illustrations.
A timeless classic of Walter, the world's laziest mouse. When he sleeps through his family moving away he sets off to find them, thus in itself initiating the transition from lazy mouse to self-motivated hardworking mouse. A great adventure with a great moral that does not show its age beyond the names Walter suggests for the frogs. But you could always make up your own! :)Note: this was a GoodReads first-reads review
Cute story about a mouse who was so lazy he got separated from his family and learned some lessons along the way. This is a Nancy Pearl Book Crush Rediscovery book. I do believe it stands the test of time and young readers will be satisfied by it. I believe its more of a read aloud for 4-5 year olds than a stand alone.
I had forgotten how long this book is. It's much more an illustrated chapter book than a picture book. Some interesting words - I think I recall "dolefully" in there. Flack's original illustrations are wonderful. Might be better for a child to read himself as opposed to listening to a parent reading aloud.
My 7 year old Grandaughter and I are reading about "Mouse Mouse". - rather, she is reading and I'm delighting again in the story, the cadence, the illustrations and my grandaughter's delight........read to my sister and brothers, and my daughter and my grandson when he was 6, and never have grown tired of Mouse Island.......highly recommend!
I liked the way the author tells the story of how Walter overcomes his laziness. The narration is wonderful because as I read the book I often sensed that a child was reading the story aloud to other children. The illustrations are terrific too and depict story scenes well.
I read this with the little girls. We really enjoyed the simple story of poor lazy Walter. Our hearts went out to him from the guest chapter, though the consequences were self-made. We were happy to see him learn and improve through his experiences.
