https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1262472.The_Ripening_Seed
The descriptions of this awakening in the girl, Vinca, and how she responds, sometimes like a shy wild animal, sometimes like the prototype of a sophisticated woman, were particularly compelling.
The narrative focus shifts to him and the author becomes too prominent and begins intellectualising far too much for me the conflict between him and Vinca that follows.
Also I was far more interested in Vinca than Philippe and saddened that Colette virtually ignores her for the rest of the book.
It works so much better at the beginning when the narrative has a lovely young feel about it - it's like we're the same age as the protagonists, seeing everything through their eyes.

Not my cup of tea, I'm afraid.
La novela se parte en dos, en la noche en que Philippe "se hace hombre" con una mujer mayor, Camille.
Lo primero que hace al salir de la casa de la amante, en la noche, es encontrarse con un perro en el camino, abrazarlo y ponerse a llorar (el llora de pena, Vinca llorará de rabia).
En la segunda parte de la novela, Philippe se vuelve aborrecible, es pasado por arriba por las dos mujeres de la novela: Vinca y Camille.
(view spoiler)[Mujer pérfida que llama hombre a un pibe de 16...
I like Colette.
Unlike Daphnis and Chloe, Philippe and Vinca are not orphans, but their parents are strangely absent.
I enjoyed it a lot, but it's difficult to explain why or how I like it--which I think is a wonderful thing.
He is--still or already, whichever way you see it--clueless about her and women in general, even though he has known her all her life.
(Oh, by the way, I read it in Japanese translation.
I do most of my reading in English, but when the original is not in English, I get to choose the translation.
I thought this was a pretty irritating book, although the writing is not bad, and some of the imagery definitely good.
Ok, so you definitely have to be in the mood for Colette to at all appreciate her, but still.
This book focuses on two adolescent drama queens in the throes of turning from childhood inseparables to "I love you!
Ah, you will never care!
It's not as completely trashy as her first books (Claudine, etc.) but retains much of the gasping, heaving, desperate relationship drama that just seems ridiculous and tedious once you're good and thirty.
This is the first non-Claudine book of Collette's that I've read. I have to say I did not care for it at all. I don't really like her male characters and this was all from the male's point of view. It was a teen romance about a 16 year old, wanting to marry a 15 year old and having an affair with an older woman that didn't do anything for him. It just felt so pointless. The only thing it did was make me want to eat seafood. Not really one I can recommend.
I spent seven years searching for a copy of this book in multiple cities. It was a poignant experience reading this book.
The reader is able to easily relate to her budding young lovers and see themselves – youthful again – in their eyes.The premise of the story is thus – Philippe and Vinca, 16 and 15 respectively, have grown up together and loved each other all their lives albeit in what is arguably a very innocent and childlike fashion.
However, as the young couple experience the aging and growth of both body and mind, their feelings and desires begin to change and mature – as they are.Vinca is the more quiet of the pair.
A short novel by Colette focussing on one summer in the lives of Philippe and Vinca, two teenagers who have been friends since childhood.
It made you want to scream at her that if he couldn't even keep it in his trousers when they were first falling in love, then maybe this was not destined to be a good relationship.I realise that this was written in a very different time, and double standards were rife regarding sexual morality, but even the author seemed to see male infidelity as inevitable and accept it with a resigned shrug.
Time To Study Abroad (Foreign Language)• Read 2 Books That Were Originally Published In The Same Foreign Language (One You Don't Speak Fluently).The story is about two Parisian teens spending the summer at the beach, Phillipe and Vinca.
But the ultimate reason I did not like the book was Phillipe.
Phillipe whined about everything, especially losing his virginity to an older woman.
It's too hard to believe that any 16 year old boy would not be thrilled to bits to have an older, experienced lover.Phillipe was too much like a girl, and Vinca was elevated to high for a girl of her age, in my opinion.
old boy named Phil and a 15 1/2 year old girl named Vinca (short for Pervenche) whose families have summered together on the Brittany coast since the pair were infants.
Complicated by sexual betrayal (Phil engages in his first affair with Mme Dellaray, vacationing solo in a nearby villa; he sometimes calls her his mistress and at others, his master).
The novel ends with second sexual initiation, this one bittersweet, that of Vinca and Phil.
One can only surmise that at 15, and contrary to the very ordinary life she has envisioned for herself (or, more accurately, that her mother has envisioned for her), Vinca's world (and Phil's too) may soon be irrevocably changed by an unplanned pregnancy.
Le principal attrait de ce roman d'apprentissage est son ton doux-amer, la façon limpide dont il transcrit la perte de l'innocence (psychique autant que physique), qui accompagne le passage de l'enfance à l'âge presque adulte.Cela étant, les héros, malgré leur jeunesse, ne sont pas attachants pour 2 sous, et Colette semble s'être davantage intéressée aux descriptions du bord de mer qu'à leurs atermoiements adolescents. On suit surtout l'évolution du jeune garçon, la gamine nous apparaissant essentiellement à travers son regard à lui, et j'aurais préféré un narrateur omniscient pour le coup.
I'm sure this book was supposed to be something akin to 'Catcher in the Rye' teenage angst. It was just hard to take it seriously when it was some prissy 16 year old boy, ranting about how his far he is in life and how it's all going to waste, a childhood friend he deems as his personal property and bipolarly abuses and sweet talks, some random middle aged lady he has an affair with, and about how good and lean his young tanned body and black curls look. It was blah all the way through...
Enjoyed the actual writing. Enjoyed most of it, in fact, in the way that I enjoy lovely writing about silly teenage angst. What bumped it down significantly in my view is the use of the trope that Girls Have Instinctive Wisdom.Nope. No, girls are dumb too.But the book was a nice and short read and made me want to go vacation on the Brittany coast.
What a phenomenal book about the pangs and angst of adolescents. Collete does a fantastic job of showcasing a teenage boy's mercurial sexual changes and the heartbreak of a young girl being transformed differently."The Ripening Seed" is a quick and descriptive read and I look forward to reading other works by Collete in the future.
How Colette captures the innocence and beauty of youth in this quintessential coming-of-age novel amazes me, especially considering her own history. The novel never becomes tasteless, and verges on wistful.
I felt as though I were walking unseen with two beautiful young animals
Densely poetic, its peculiar structure no doubt down to its original serialisation, like a series of polaroids which primarily focus on the male character but occasionally, unexpectedly, give us a close up of one of the two key female characters. Brims with guarded sensuality that only really takes off in the final chapter where the central conflict is somewhat resolved, but leaves us with an unromantic, and therefore probably truer, view of love than any number of Mills and Boon stories.
Il francese è piuttosto complicato e mi ha rallentato un po' nella lettura di questo breve racconto, in cui Colette tratta un tema a lei caro, una storia d'amore sofferta, sanguigna e a tratti urlata, in una brumosa estate bretone. Alcuni spunti interessanti, ma dopo "Cheri" forse non posso che rimanere delusa.
Tragedy can be inevitable. What it shouldn't be is boring.Colette's prose is liquid, and her sympathetic apprehension of adolescent narcissism made this a book worth finishing. But a stale semi-plot took itself and its depthless characters far too seriously, and moralized too thoroughly and inconsistently, for me to rate the novel well.
Presque 20 ans après sa première lecture, j'ai relu ce livre avec curiosité. J'avais oublié à quel point Philippe Audebert est un personnage pénible et suffisant. J'ai beaucoup aimé le passage où Vinca lui colle son poing dans la tronche. L'écriture de Colette est pompeuse et belle.
I'm so mad. I hate cheating stories. And what I hate even more than dudes cheating is when said dudes spent the whole novel complaining that they are unhappy and feel guitly. Idea for you dude: STOP CHEATING ON YOUR GIRLFRIEND.
for me: go find another Colette book to read. But beautiful description of the coast of Britanny.
Kauniisti kirjoitettu tarina nuoruudesta, rakkaudesta, kasvmisesta, aikuistumisesta.
I love this book. I read it first 50 years ago - in French, at University. I picked it up again - and fell in love with it all over again. Now want to read more Colette.
A book you read in schoolI studied Collette's Le Blé en Herbe for French A level but we mainly read it in English. I had to read a book from school days as part of a reading challenge so I went with my old school copy complete with notes in the margins. I am astounded at how much of the plot went completely over my young head. I was very naive!
Imaginez-vous au début du siècle dernier, pendant l'entre-deux guerres, où les garçons sont éduqués dans le seul but de faire une bonne carrière du moment qu'ils font parti de la haute et de trouver une femme qui elle aura été éduquée pour bien coudre, bien tenir une maison, être dévouée à son mari, avoir un minimum d'esprit et épouser ce qu'elle pourra trouver en fonction de la dote qui lui sera accordée et économisée par son père.
Vinca quant à elle, qui ne le connait que trop bien, va s'en rendre compte, malgré que Philippe fait tout son possible pour cacher cette relation, dévoré par la culpabilité et l'envie de retourner auprès de sa dame.
Voilà des années que je voulais lire Colette.Agnés F.
qui tient l'écrivaine du Palais-Royal comme l'un(e) des plus grand(e)s auteur(e)s du (XXème) siècle me moquait de ne jamais avoir lu l'auteur des Claudine.Aussi j'ai profité des vacances pour lire "Le blé en herbe" retrouvé dans un coin poussiéreux du grenier.On tient ce court roman de 1923 comme une des oeuvres les plus audacieuses de son temps.
l'origan poivré et les derniers parfums du mélilot), les sentiments des personnages totalement boursouflés et ce qui nous est présenté comme un sommet du féminisme se révèle, à la réflexion comme l'apologie de la soumission féminine au sexe fort.Dire qu'on impose la lecture de ce roman, au motif qu'il n'est pas trop long et qu'il évoque un sujet "de leur âge" aux collégiens de 3ème.
Instead, this was a slow story of two obedient, bourgeois youths whose conceptions of what it means to be "a man" and what it means to be "a woman" are shaped by their repressive culture.
Our protagonist, Philippe, for example has a pretty clear cut case of the Madonna/whore complex, and his first childhood love, Vinca is not at all believable as a 15 year old girl--so docile in her agreement with her mother's prescription that she stay home and help take care of the household before she one day marries (rather than striking out on her own to find her calling).
Both characters were somewhat flat, and the whole conflict with Philippe and the older woman, Mme. Dalleray (also a flat character) was ultimately unsatisfying as well.
