https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/697886.The_Secrets_of_Dr_Taverner
still reading it but am more than halfway through.
this is the first book by Dion Fortune (Violet Mary Firth), the famous occult writer, I am reading and am very pleasantly surprised.
I had heard her fiction writing was really good (in addition to her well known non-fiction occult titles) but had no idea until I picked up this book on my Kindle.
as almost every other commentator had also pointed out, the stories are full of glimpses to Fortune's own spiritual path -but not in a didactic sort of manner at all.
she's a terrific writer and this book is absolutely charming.
A collection of 12 stories originally published in magazines during the 1920s, the tales follow the adventures of a Sherlock Holmes type of character, the great psychic detective Doctor Taverner, and his assistant Dr. Rhodes (Taverner's Dr. Watson).
Rhodes, always the sceptic regarding the occult, cannot help but admire the way Taverner handles each case, and gradually begins to accept the idea that there is more to life than his medical science can make sense of.Dion Fortune was a student of the Western Mystery Tradition, and she meant her fiction to be teaching tools.
I only wish Ms. Fortune had written more tales.
There are some beautiful, spooky and romantic stories as well as some interesting discussion of the Western Magical Tradition.
As the author was trained in psychiatry it was a nice juxtaposition between the occult and the modern science.
Despite being a selection of short stories the narrator himself undergoes his own journey.
Perhaps part of the reason the quality of the stories improves through the book is the narrator's increased acceptance of the world around him.
But I thoroughly enjoyed this and will definitely read more by this author.

So entertaining to read this book as metaphysical Sherlock Holmes/Watson cases. I truly loved the characters of Dr. Taverner/Dr. Rhodes. These stories are stranger than fiction. That is for sure. In particular, the first story, called Blood Lust, a vampire tale, illustrated to me just how flat that genre has become in modern story-telling. Much better to deal with it from an etheric point of view. Very other-worldly undertones in these cases that leaves one unsettled at times. These stories are certainly not for everyone.
I very much enjoyed reading this book. It may even have provided me with one or two insights even given its fiction format. Dion Fortune writes quite well and it is quite interesting to get a description of the milieu in which occultism plays an integrated part, even though the protagonist is ostensibly an uninitiate.
Tons of wisdom in these tales...and gerat fun to read. Dion Fortune is FANTASTIC. No occultist should be without her texts.
I need to think about this before I can give it a rating
One of my favourites. Fascinating!
Excellent novel it is a mixture of Carl Gustav Jung with a touch of Dr Strange (from marvel comics) and Sherlock holmes. It is an interesting read with pointings of how the unconscious mind works from an occultist point of view but nevertheless an interesting read plus very entertaining.
one of the best occult fiction writers!
3 1/2 STARS
The easiest of the Dion Fortune fictional books to read. This is a collection of short stie, which are possibly based upon one of Dions own teachers, Theodore Moriarty. Origionally published as seperate short stories, they were then collected together & published as a collection in 1926, these stories make for light & easy reading.
As supernatural detective fiction goes, this is quite good. It's about a doctor who runs an asylum but is a sort of wizard on the side and each chapter is a different 'monster-of-the-week' style story about a patient. It covers the usual assortment, ghosts, dark magic, past lives, nature spirits etc.
Salatieteitä harjoittavassa looshissa mukana oleva tohtori Taverner ratkoo parapsykologisia ja okkultisia tapahtumavyyhtejä omien potilaittensa maailmasta sekä ulkopuolelta.Menettelevä, kerronta ei erityisen hyvää, mutta luettavaa.
If it has one star I liked it a lot If it has two stars I liked it a lot and would recommend itIf it has three stars I really really liked it a lot If it has four stars I insist you read it If it has five stars it was life changing
Based on real life events. There are stories here that are very enlightening particularly if you read Psychic Self-Defense right after.
I used to love this. Now, it feels stilted and superficial.
http://thepaganmomblog.com/reviews/th... And this book has 221 pages, not 240.
