https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17262100-the-lowland
Years, decades, generations pass, but people don't grow, change or express themselves- they just keep bitterness, love, sadness, guilt equally bottled up, and indulge in quiet renunciation (Subhash) or witchy selfishness (Gauri).
(I've never seen any of the stereotypically bleak Scandinavian films (Bergman et al.) but I imagine that they would feel like this book does).Lahiri is undoubtedly talented - I loved the Namesake, and thought Unaccustomed Earth was great.
But this book seems like a fascinating idea grown stiff in the telling.
But Lahiri's take ends up being not particularly nuanced or interesting - she's rather punishing and uncompromising with Gauri, and that story is as old as the hills.
"It was as if Udayan were there, speaking to him, teasing him. He felt their loyalty to one another, their affection, stretched halfway across the world. Stretched perhaps to the breaking point by all that now stood between them, but at the same time refusing to break." You don't have to be in a certain place, at a certain time to be able to catch the faint thrum of the lifeblood coursing through the pages of this book, live the heartbreak of its characters, to develop a sense of solidarity wit
But it will help if you have lived, at some point in time, in a city christened Calcutta by the British and rechristened Kolkata (the pure Bengali name) centuries later by a government intent on erasing telling signs of a nation's unfortunate colonial past.
How silly is it that in the eagerness to match steps with the developed world, to achieve set targets, we forget the blood-soaked, tear-streaked history of the country we live in, that we are inextricably bound to the political upheavals which serve as foundation stones to our present state of equanimity, to the sheer tragedy and violence of turbulent times.Neither am I Jhumpa Lahiri's biggest fan nor her harshest critic.
It follows the life of Subhash Mitra as he grows up in Calcutta and then moves to America--typical fare for Lahiri, but with much broader scope and even cleaner, crisper writing than the Pulitzer Prize winner has shown in the past.With a sweeping, addictive plot, THE LOWLAND still peels naked the identities brother, lover, father, and mother, often with just a small, simple gesture.
But when you read it we need to talk: I could write essays on the relationship between the two brother or the sensory magic Lahiri effortlessly conjures in the most simple domestic chores.But simply put: Jhumpa Lahiri might be my favorite living writer, and this is definitely my favorite of her books.
So I'll record here my lingering reaction, the feeling that has stayed with me after two months:This book is haunting and haunted.
Of course, the individual reactions vary, but there's this common empty room in their hearts that refuses to be filled.
where the absent linger in spirit, forever haunting the ones who stayed.
This is a powerful emotional read, and obviously a very sad one, though I could discern mostly hope in the final pages.If you're looking for a grand, sweeping, but intimate novel that will find a spot in your heart and refuse to let go, don't miss this one.
But now that he was back in his room, he took it out again, wanting to read it one more time, as always.He remembered all the letters he used to receive from India and of how he could hear his Udayan’s childhood voice as he read it, even when the voice was long changed.
He knew that much of Udayan’s ramblings in this letter might have come from the book.
This book is not like that - it is a quiet pleasure to read but there is no expectation of pleasure from the sharing of it - there is no compulsion to talk about it - there is nothing much to talk about really.
Two brothers, born in India before partition, come of political age in the 1960s.
One brother becomes politically active, the other doesn’t, and their lives unfold in completely disparate ways.
There was a rich substrate to mine: the struggles of the Bengali communist party, the reconciliation of politics with the realities of everyday family life, immigration and integration, grief and its effects, and the evolution of people as they grow from youth to middle age to their winters.
The book spans over fifty years of the adults’ lives, yet fails to recognise that people change as they age.
I came across your writings for the first time in The Namesake and when I have finished your second book; my opinion about your penning skills have not changed much.Though I had not much liked the subject matter of The Namesake, years ago when I read it, I can give it another try anytime soon, with this confession that I have now somehow, developed the patience and a kind of forbearance, of venturing into the realms of those stories, which were never my cup of tea a few years back.Comparing to that I liked this story more because of its range and prevalence not only in terms of space and time but also in terms of the sweep, it has produced within and outside of those relationships, which you carried forward to next generations of your characters.You began your story of two brothers Subhash and Udayan, who had never set the foot in the Tolly Club, like most people in the vicinity, they had passed by its wooden gate, its brick walls hundreds of times.
Not all mothers love their children.
There’s that (clichéd) lonely-disorientated immigrant experience that I relate to, but she also takes it further to a place that’s hard to explain to those that haven’t left their home country.
Husbands get left, children get left, families and memories get left.
With her own hand she'd painted herself into a corner, and then out of the picture altogether.Are you supposed to feel a connection with people because you’re related to them?
They had collided and dispersed.While reading The Lowland I kept thinking that I didn’t like it as much as The Namesake, that it wasn’t as good.
Udayar becomes a follower of Mao's revolutionary politics and joins the Naxalite movement.
As I was reading this I felt as if the first half was like an outline, just the bare bones of the characters personalities were being revealed.
Much of the political situation was more detailed.
In the second half this changed and all the little touches, the observations of place, people and time that Lahiri's prose is noted for, came alive.
At times I did feel that Lahiri was portraying her characters at a remove, an almost emotionless narrative of their lives.
(OK that's what most of her books have in common) The political brother becomes more entangled in terrorist type protests and along the way marries the sister of one of his comrades.
When the brother in America returns to India for his funeral, he discovers that his parents are inhospitable to his brother's pregnant widow; so he nobly marries her and takes her to the US to have the child and raise it as his own.
Boring, bland, dry, artificial stilted characters whose experiences bear no relationship to real life, and the entire book has no resonance or depth.
While "The Lowland" satisfied me plot-wise, it was Jhumpa Lahiri's language that blew me away once again.
Something I really appreciated about the book was Jhumpa Lahiri's objective take on the political movement that forms the impetus for every plot line in the book.
Lahiri stays away from the tempting trap of making a political point, and focuses instead on the effect the movement has on the handful of characters and their lives that form the heart of the book.
This is a must-read for anyone who loved Jhumpa Lahiri's previous books!Oh, and I now feel compelled to visit Rhode Island.
Anyways, this was a fantastic read with a lot of depth and emotion.I hope to read more from this author in the future.----------------------------------------------------I want to complete some lists on this site.
I thought it would be a great list to start off with as it is one put together by a nonuser of Goodreads, will most likely have books worth my time, and it is relatively short.
First book read in order to complete list:https://www.goodreads.com/list/show/4...
In her two books which are short stories, Lahiri's writing style of weaving stories together is so realistic - we feel the heartbeat and are deeply emotionally engagedhanging on to every word she writes.
In both novels one brother comes to the United States to study and further themselves ...In both novels there are great differences between the brothers ..,yet, in this story...I just didn't feel the overall magic - like I did in "Cutting For Stone", or Lahiri's previous books.
but if you've never read Lahiri before...my vote would be for her previous books first!
2.5 starsJumpa Lahiri has failed me.
This book is about the history of India, lots of politics, upheaval, warring parties, etc.
Generally, historical novel have a way of seeping you in history through plot and characters, but in this book, the characters take second stage to the history.
It's lazy, saving the author time in writing realistic dialogue vs.
The writing was overwrought and overly flowery; the characters dull; and the plot begged, "Ok, so what?" There are THEMES, certainly, and, as an English prof, I'm all for themes, but themes are only threads - what about the pages?
("Stuff normal people like" was a phrase that kept popping into my head to characterise this novel and Lahiri, generally.
For days after I finished The Lowland I cringed when I saw certain Lahiri-like sentence structures in other books.
However, writing this review is making me reconsider whether I should rate this dull humourless litfic over more populist sort of novels which were stereotyped or had plot mis-steps.
They were at least a bit more enjoyable to read.ETA, Nov. This review of Unaccustomed Earth eloquently says a number of things I wish I'd said about Lahiri and her writing.
Picture two young boys growing up in the 1960s amid the lowland of Calcutta, getting into mischief that suits boys their age.
Told from the third-person narrator point of view, the tone embodies the coping mechanism of the characters: stoicism--just what is needed to accompany a heartrending story without the melodramatics.
Then just at the right moment, the narration gets closer, so close that you and the character become one, you see their point of view clearly and you may not agree with them but you certainly 'get' them.
When Udayan inevitably gets swept into a revolutionary movement that turns out badly, Subhash returns home –briefly – and picks up the pieces, including an attempt to heal the emotional scars of his brother’s young wife.As the plot goes on – and it is not my desire to encapsulate the plot or to create spoilers – about 70 years of family history is condensed into a mere 340 pages.
And Bela, her daughter, is only revealed in limited emotional scope.A novel, unlike a short story, demands a considerable emotional tension, a multi-textured richness that makes characters leap off the page.
I wish there were more writers out there who took their responsibility to their story as seriously as Lahiri does.As for The Lowland specifically, I found its plotline much more intriguing than that of The Namesake, but it was somewhat less emotionally satisfying for me.
Upon reflection, I think this is simply because The Namesake stayed in Gogol's head nearly the entire time, whereas The Lowland skipped around among Subhash, Gauri, and, to a lesser extent, a few other characters.
After The Namesake I longed for a Lahiri novel from a female viewpoint, but sadly here I found the Gauri sections somewhat unsatisfying and mostly couldn't wait to get back to Subhash, the heart of the book.
I love how her work tends to emphasizes the smaller moments of her characters' lives -- The Namesake condenses an entire thirty-something years into less than 300 pages, but never felt like it was lacking in depth.
The Lowland follows a similar structure, but here Lahiri covers more years and more generations in more pages.
The book begins with two brothers, Subhash and Udayan, in 1960s Calcutta.
When Udayan's politics cost him his life, Subhash returns home and learns that his sister-in-law, Guari, is pregnant.
The contrast of Guari's unarranged marriage to Udayan versus a might-as-well-be arranged marriage to Subhash.
Udayan, while also an excellent student, becomes involved in the Naxilite movement and dedicates himself to the Indian poor.
But Lahiri---and Subhash and Udayan---have a different story to tell, one of tangled relationships, lost chances, families broken and rebuilt, love lost and found.
And Lahiri does this with her signature beautiful prose which I have experienced previously through her short stories.The character development throughout this novel was done in a manner that drew me in and along.
I did learn much about Indian history of the 1960s, particularly the Naxilite movement.
Although Interpreter of Maladies won so many awards and gave Lahiri encouragement perhaps, I preferred another book of linked stories, Unaccustomed Earth, for its deep insights, faultless language, and for peeling the veil from a culture I can never hope to know intimately.The writing in this, her latest novel, was, I thought, workmanlike and studious--like her characters in a way, scientists and PhDs, both.
Maybe it is so—they are Lahiri’s characters after all—but it all felt a little far out there to American me.Another way to look at this book is that it is unadorned, cruel, and often boring--just like life itself.
It's above all elegantly written, yet too much is explained, especially in the last three chapters.
So, yes, it could've ended three chapters sooner than it did, yet I appreciated why she included them.
At times there is more telling than showing as years are spooled out, especially for one character, and yet it was done in an almost-forgivable Munro way.If you've read Lahiri before, some of the tone and situations of this novel will seem very familiar at certain points, yet that feeling of familiarity eventually dissipates and then stops altogether.
Very satisfying read.
A must-read!
After finishing this book (an ARC from an angel and subsequently paid forward), I had to take a day or so off from reading anything else in order to continue to allow the afterglow of The Lowland to linger.I found Lahiri's writing to be so precise and her tone so serene.
The words, tone and pacing have a focused and steady quality that accentuates the emotions, the beauty of the descriptions (e.g., sky, the house, the hairs on his forearms), and the impact of the actions.
Each character --at each life stage, from childhood on-- rang "true" to me.
If you would like to participate in the discussion here is the link: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...I enjoy the author's books and stories.
However, every book she writes the main character always goes through a loveless, unhappy marriage.
Just like this book.
Also, in this book I felt it just ended.
In the suburban streets of Calcutta where they wandered before dusk and in the hyacinth-strewn ponds where they played for hours on end, Udayan was always in his older brother's sight.
He will give everything, risk all, for what he believes, and in doing so will transform the futures of those dearest to him: his newly married, pregnant wife, his brother and their parents.
(Her first novel wasn’t overlooked, either, gaining bestseller status and receiving rave reviews like pretty much everything else she’s written.)On one level, The Lowland reflects two sides of its author’s persona — her Bengali heritage (though she was born in the UK) and her upbringing in Rhode Island.
The plot revolves around two momentous incidents, one taking place in Kolkata in 1971, the other in Rhode Island twelve years later.In another sense, the novel is a tale of two Bengali brothers, preternaturally close in their youth, whose passions take them in divergent directions.

Udayan and his older brother Subhash have been raised to honor their parents and observe the old customs but Udayan turns to radical politics because of the injustice and poverty he sees around him.
Both boys have finished their university degrees and they’ve always been close to one another but the more Udayan becomes involved in politics the more Subhash feels alienated from him Ironically it seems like the more their lives diverge the more they overlap.
Lahiri explores how love can still be constant though people’s lives and thoughts become divergent.
She raises the theme of brotherhood between individuals as well as countrymen and/or like minded individuals.
3.75 stars A little bit difficult to delve into in the beginning, a family story that tugs at the heartstrings, but also managed to expose how hard it is for people to forgive. A book that left me feeling quite sad.
I’ve had this book on my list since it came out but let it languish there for years because of the tepid reviews. I should never have doubted Lahiri. This is an epic in scope, and it’s amazing that it crams so much in so few pages. It’s melancholic but about love and politics and loss and philosophy and regret. It’s really beautifully done. It’s told in snapshots of a handful of characters: we see into their lives briefly, and then the narrative jumps by years. I loved it.
I loved this book. A very sad story, wonderfully told. A story about the past being part of the present, always and wherever you go. No escape possible. A truly remarkable novel. Highly recommended.
