https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1972.Den_of_Thieves
Reading this book is kind of like visiting a place for the first time after hearing glowing reviews from your friends.
Den of Thieves is comparable to Barbarians at the Gate in many ways—thickness, setting Guinness World Records for number of names contained in a book, subject matter—but the story is muddled by litigation and can't be placed on the same plane of greatness.Aside from John Mulheren, the entire supporting cast is totally forgettable by the time you make it to the last three chapters.
It was interesting to return to this book over twenty years after first reading it.
For some reason I consumed the many tales of greed that were published at the time...Barbarians at the Gate, Mr. Diamond, Liar's Poker.
A decade later there was the spate of books on Enron, Tyco, ADM.
A few short years after that it would be the financial crisis that produced written works to explain the collapse of Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers and others.
History repeats itself because greed always exists.
This is a brilliantly researched and written cautionary tale that many refused to heed.
The stock price would move in whatever direction they wanted.It was shameful how Ivan Boesky was hailed by business magazines and university departments as some kind of business genius.
They discovered that the SEC had permitted Boesky to sell $400,000,000 of his position for a couple of reasons: the SEC wanted to make sure he would have money to pay the $100,000,000 fine he had agreed to in his plea, and they were worried that if news got out prematurely the market would tank and many investors would get hurt.
Stewart.Below are key excerpts from the book that I found to be particularly insightful: Even now it is hard to grasp the magnitude and the scope of the crime that unfolded, beginning in the mid-1970s, in the nation's markets and financial institutions.
It dwarfs any comparable financial crime, from the Great Train Robbery to the stock-manipulation schemes that gave rise to the nation's securities laws in the first place.
Nor should the financial implications of these crimes, massive though they are, obscure the challenge they posed to the nation's law-enforcement capabilities, its judicial system, and ultimately, to the sense of justice and fair play that is a foundation of civilized society.
If all it took was a major Wall Street scandal to bring down the center of United States financial institutions, it would have ended with the insider trading scandal covered in James Stewart's Den of Thieves.
But as we're all too painfully aware, particularly in today's economy, greed and avarice continues to run amok among the investment banks, traders and law firms that make their bread on Wall Street.As far as Wall Street crimes go, the insider trading scandal of the 1980s was not much different than the ones that have occurred since.
One can see in Den of Thieves that the Drexel company culture of "what's in it for me" triumphed over sacrifice for "the good of the company." The same choice is now being played out on a much larger scale in Europe as the social safety net is being reduced toward elimination for the good of the financial markets (they want their money, even though the amount of money paid already could easily have paid off the principal with interest to spare).
Not ashamed to say this tale of Michael Milken's 1980s junk-bond shenanigans was one of the more entertaining books I have ever read. 500 pages but it flies by. The kind of detail Stewart has extracted from the records is pretty amazing. Milken unsurprisingly comes off as a grandiose, power and wealth-hungry egomaniac but still the extent of his achievement is pretty impressive. Highly recommended for a good summer read.
It was so bad at the time and so shocking. Reading this book a bit late and after the financial crisis, I feel like yeah, whatever. It feels much worse now and it's hardly even litigated by the SEC anymore. But it's still a great story of how this sort of crime becomes so tempting, so easy to commit, and so hard to root out.
If you're a reader who only feels right when they can leave a book at a chapter mark, you will too!
Stewart has clearly done his homework and compiled an excellent inside-story of greed, arrogance and ignorance.I was enthralled as the house of cards was built higher and higher than it was every designed to go, and it was exhilarating to watch the cards near the bottom removed one by one before the whole thing came tumbling down.The books' main narrative largely covers an even more exciting one for this reader: the tension and relationships between the criminals and those charged with ensuring they pay for the damage they've caused.
In his account of the Milken and Boesky insider trading scandal that bookmarked the 80s, Stewart gives credence to both.
Stewart painstakingly lays out the principal actors, the actions they took, sins committed and what the consequences were of the junk bond scandal.
What I found most striking was the arrogance of the principals, the steadfast self justification - not only would they refute any wrongdoing in their minds they were heroes, and finally how the criminal behaviour was so richly rewarded even post persecution.
It's a very good book, but I gave it three stars because it's so heavily documented.
Well, that seems like a pretty naive way for an experienced Wall Street Journal reporter to look at it.
And if you've read Michael Lewis' The Big Short, his account of a much more complex series of events is actually a little easier to follow than this book.
It's almost like Stewart felt that he was writing a book so that history could look back and find everything it needed to know about the Junk Bond era; he overpacked it with so much information that it's almost numbing to read it.
Throughout most of listening to this book, I thought to myself A) when is this book going to end, and B) what's the point of understanding something that happened almost 30 years ago?
After finishing the book, my thoughts were A) James B.
and B) Seems like most of what happened in the book repeated itself in 2008.
Can't really say I thoroughly enjoyed the book, but it was definitely a very detailed exposé on what was going on in the junk bond market in the mid-80's.
Perhaps I would have enjoyed it more if I was in the banking industry.
Please note, this book is close to 600 pages long, reading this book is a very time consuming and tedious process, as it lacks an element of entertainment, 80% of the information mentioned in this book is gibberish and is completely irrelevant to most readers, the knowledge you will receive will be very basic and can be acquired through the “Google search engine”.Kudos to the author for his ability to extend the description of this event to this extent.
Wish I'd read this book a decade ago...
For those that remember the high-flying days of the 1980's Wall Street, or even remember the fictional Gordon Gecko of the 1987 MOVIE "Wall Street", this is a definite read.In fact, Gordon Gecko was inspired BY the real-life characters of this book: Michael Milken and Ivan Boesky.
The culture explained here led directly to the later and greater problems to come.I would suggest that you read this, then move right on to books like "The Great Short" on the sub-prime mortgage story.
Absolutely riveting account of a major insider trading ring in the '80s.
I'd only heard bits and pieces about it in the past.
Although the book is fairly old, it reads very fresh.
Greed in finance is an evergreen topic of course.
What I liked the most was the examination into the "why" of insider trading.
What motivates each player to give into the temptation.
Some it was greed.
But with Milken, I never quite understood his motivation.
(Based on the Amazon reviews, it looks like a lot of people think he was innocent too.)Highly recommend.
This book took me awhile to get through. Dense and a little tricky to keep all the people/businesses/relationships straight but the overall story was shocking. Insider trading between big names on Wall Street and their eventual demise. It was so interesting but also made me wonder how often this is going on under the radar. It made me feel like a lot.
Big financial crime and the arrogant a**holes who almost got away with it. Very well written.
A veritable thriller, choke-full of details that really put you on the scene.
This is a fascinating look at the 1980's securities industry and reads like a thriller...
That being said, it's a magnificent and quintessential relic of Financial History cannon, easily meeting "Liar's Poker" or "Barbarians at the Gate" as equals, though not nearly as sharp-witted by comparison.To summarize, f you are in any way passionate or committed to understanding Wall Street specifically during the 1980's, LBOs, and high finance or business, then this is an absolute must-read.
Yes, this "den of thieves" got caught, but I'm certain there are smaller fish out there earning less money, and getting away with it.In the end, even though these men were caught, paid huge fines, and spent time in prison, they returned to society very wealthy and able to live a lavish life again.
This book is long, and full of details about who put how much money into which security, who leaked inside information to who, and who is covering whose back, etc.
This book holds up surprisingly well and is a healthy reminder for all investors that historically, the Industrial Financial Complex has been closer to an enemy than a "trusted wealth adviser" more often than it would like you to remember.
I was of an age to be hearing about this daily on NPR when these stories broke - and I still learned a lot in reading this book.If you're wondering how the culture of a bank could become as slimy as Wells Fargo has been in recent years, look to the past - cheating the customer is a fine Wall Street tradition.
One of the finer books that deals with securities fraud because it describes the ways in which the players committed their crimes and then in the second part goes into the legal machinations of how the players dealt with their prosecutions in this insider trading scandal of Milken, Boesky, Siegel, Levine, in the 1980s.
This is a detailed, well-written book about securities fraud, the first part describing the illegal actions of the players, and the second part about the prosecution of such players.
This is an invigorating and illuminating book, dense but intriguing.

This was similar to The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine. I had no idea what was happening with all those dumb financial, banking, or Wall Street business terms. It's all nonsense if you ask me. What would life be like without those entities? That's what I want to know. Yeah this all went way over m head. So if you get this crap then you'll prolly love it, noting the great reviews it has received.
Good account of the insider trading scandal that rocked the financial markets in the late 80's (greed is good).
The first half of the book outlines all the deals that were made whilst the second half deals with the fallout of this and the legal cases that followed.
Good but at times can get a bit ponderous and dragging (especially in the first half where it's deal after deal involving lots of zeroes), and despite the heavy penalties imposed upon the guilty parties we still ended up with the GFC of 2007 and sub-prime mortgage crises - same greed and avarice just a different area.
Excellent story of the of the largest insider trading ring on Wall Street and the men who made billions from it.
I was often a little lost in the technicalities of the stock market but the stories behind the men (Michael Milken, Ivan Boesky, Martin Siegel, and Dennis Levine) is fascinating.
From the beginnings of their careers to the final sentencing, I was eager to find out what kind of people they were and what their lives were like.
It was also eye-opening to see how the Securities and Exchange Commission and the United States attorney's office in New York cracked the case.
I didn't enjoy this quite as much as Barbarian at the Gates, but the book was still an interesting and quick read. I would have liked to learn more about how these junk bonds concretely affected those who invested in them as well as the businesses who later defaulted on their loans. One of the upsides to this book was how the last half of the book looked at the way the justice system handled what had happened in the first half.
This is a great slice of spice of the 1980s Wall Street that is brimming with meticulously researched detail. There is drama if not action and sometimes the narration gets lost in trying to enthusiastically explain every cog of the financial world. But it makes up with its characters, real world people who are shades of grey, fallen for the siren of greed. On Wall Street Greed is Good, but the world that these people have fleshed out for themselves cones crashing down on them
