https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1027910.Life_on_Earth

It's Attenborough so obviously it's going to be amazing.
One warning: there are horrifyingly detailed scenes of reproduction in this book, more than you'd ever wanted to know in fact, and certainly best read/heard when not eating.
I usually listen to audio books during my work lunch break but I was very quickly disabused of the notion that this was a good idea.
I don't even want to hear about stamen and pollination or anything else because i'm running out of food.
So now you know....I'm saving you from this fate.Don't @ about 'nature'I'm traumatised.
(Following my reviews of Kenneth Clarke’s Civilisation and Jacob Bronowski’s Ascent of Man, this review will concentrate on the documentary and not the book.)Like so many people, I have been captivated by nature from a very young age.
The best most of us can do is to mutter "How lovely!" under our breaths and then lapse into a respectful silence.David Attenborough seems to have come up against a similar problem, and has solved it by creating his nature documentaries.
Attenborough takes us from bacteria, to invertebrates, to plants, insects, fish, amphibians, reptiles, mammals, and finally to us.
Yet so profound and informative was "Life on Earth", and perhaps the vastness of the title is a clue, that one reviewer saw fit to proclaim that it was "quite simply, the best introduction to natural history ever written".
It is the only introduction to natural history ever read by me, and so my frame of reference is extremely narrow.
Particularly as I felt that I was generally aware of the transition already, to have it explained with such detail and yet also apparently such brevity was a delight.
4.5/5David Attenborough is best known for all the fantastic nature documentaries hes been a part of, but hes also written dozens of books that Im so glad to have finally discovered. Life on Earth is a wonderful introduction to biology, it goes through our entire evolution in a coherent way. Yes, its quite simplified, but full of fascinating examples of all kinds of different life forms. The book is written in 1979, so the information is not very recent. But I dont think any of it is wrong, speci
4.5/5David Attenborough is best known for all the fantastic nature documentaries he´s been a part of, but he´s also written dozens of books that I´m so glad to have finally discovered.
I study biology at university and got a lot from Life on Earth.
I learnt about so many different species and I´m sure this reading experience will be great help in my studies.
The book is full of post it notes so it´s easy to return to my favourite parts.
My old college science text...
While, as others mentioned, this may not be the most up-to-date text in some regards, which is certainly important with science, it's not at all confusing and is written so that a normal human being can get it.ETA: I do remember seeing the TV series companion to this...
and the running gag in our class was that Attenborough, wonderful man that he was, could never see a body of water without actually standing in it!
I fully expected to see him do a unit on domesticated farm animals and see him standing in a horse trough.
I always loved David Attenborough's narration in the BBC documentaries.
In brief 310 pages of this book, he draws a clear picture of evolution of life- right from the moment of creation to where it stands now.
At one point we are immersed in the sloth of the south American sloth and in the very next moment we are reading about the brute strength of gorillas, and we don't even notice the transition.
Such numerous observations are stitched together to tell the story of life.The final chapter is dedicated to us homo sapiens.
Did evolution happen just to create us as the end product?
this book is basically planet earth but without david attenborough’s tranquilizing voice accompanying it. would almost rather experience the audiobook for that reason, if he narrated it.this book is about organisms on earth & their progression through evolution since life began. extensive knowledge, unique facts, pictures. 5 star
135 - 2017
I’ve become a bit addicted to listening to David Attenborough reading me audiobooks that I’m going to be disappointed when I run out of audiobooks he’s narrated.I love this book, I’ve learned so much and I’m sure that the more that I read it, the more I will take in. David Attenborough has a way of saying very complex facts in ways that are very easy to understand and make you want to learn more and more about nature and the natural world.
Great info following the TV Programme.
Beautiful, inspiration words and images
This section is heavy on "Man the hunter" talk -- though, like many an outdated anthropologist, Attenborough also wants to use male pronouns when discussing the invention of agriculture (we are to assume that men were bravely spearing down charismatic megafauna, while the ladies did some trivial berry-picking and seed-gathering, but somehow in between kills the dudes figured out they could plant some of those seeds the women were grinding all day).
The worst of it, though, is his sloppy connection between modern hunter-gatherers and earlier Homo forms, assuming "primitive" people now living in New Guinea can teach us more about European cavemen than Europeans can.
This book was very informative. Like other reviews state, it isn't a defense for evolution, but a pageant of its results. Attenborough's purpose in writing this book was to inform people of life's great and awesome diversity. This purpose isn't stated directly, but it is quite easily assumed since it is nonfiction. However, as with most books, there is a hidden message, which I will discuss in the next paragraph.  The theme of the book isn't apparent, as it is nonfiction, so Attenborough cannot
Attenborough's purpose in writing this book was to inform people of life's great and awesome diversity.
The theme of the book isn't apparent, as it is nonfiction, so Attenborough cannot bend the facts to suit his fancy.
The book is an exposition of the diversity of life on earth.
This writing style is always very effective for nonlinear nonfiction books.
I liked all the interesting facts incorporated into the book.
There are probably many books similar to this, but Life on Earth stands out, even though it was based on a television series.
This is basically the great naturalist’s narrative on how life on earth came about, and it’s thoroughly fascinating if you’re interested in animals – although also occasionally intimidating as well.My copy of it is maybe forty years old, but it’s still pretty interesting and it’s all up-to-date in most areas – except for where Attenborough said there were four billion humans on the planet.
Nevertheless, that’s what I did and I enjoyed it, and so if you’re an animal lover or you think that biology is just fascinating, you’re going to like it.
Attenborough traces life from its chemical precursors to humans.
Each life form does what it takes to survive (including placing genes in the next generation).
Each life form seeks the food that provides it energy.
The photos in Attenborough's book are striking, and some of his commentary stands out.
This changed ape body structure and this, Attenborough believes, was a step toward our bipedalism.
And, just as the fin is for the fish and the feather is for birds, Attenborough says that accumulated knowledge that is passed on by the written word is what allows humans to escape the dictates of the environment.
I've been losing interest in sex in my old age, but reading this book has really re-invigorated me."When the male meets the female in mating season, the two intertwine.
The male reaches forward with his seventh leg, collects a bundle of sperm from his sex gland and then clambers alongside the female until it is alongside her sexual pouch and she is able to take it in."For those of you who like romance and mystery more than just pure physical action, there's plenty here for you as well:"A human ornithologist and a female bird may be equally baffled about the identity of a small brown warbler lurking in an English hedgerow.
Neither may be sure exactly who he is, judging solely from his appearance.
I've wanted to read this book since the TV series was aired in 1979, and after waiting so long, I wasn't disappointed.
Whilst the interim years may have brought technological advances in printing, so similar BBC books are now more often larger, glossier, full of higher quality photos, with Life On Earth the text is more accentuated.
Even though I thought I knew much of this subject already, and I wasn't particularly interested in the chapters about sea creatures or plants, I never once found it boring and I learned a surprising amount.
I just wish there was more of it, with a few more photos and diagrams.
This is a superb look into the history of life on Earth from the first most simple life forms to the complex and diverse life we have today.
Attenborough takes the reader on a journey that is as amazing as it is complex and tells it in such a way that no reader would be left behind, confused or patronised and without over-exaggerating or under-playing the processes of evolution.
And despite being over thirty years old this book is still as relevant today as it was when it was first written.
To be blunt I can't say a bad word about this book or Attenborough himself.
I read this as an accompaniment to the BBC series, and they both serve as a fantastic overview of the evolution of life on Earth.
Inclusive and not at all precious, it presents major sections of the animal and plant kingdom as part of an understandable sequence that includes both time and the effects of geography, whilst acknowledging the complexities it necessarily had to omit.
And, after finishing the book/series with a whole section on mankind, he offers a marvellous closing statement about our responsibility toward all other forms of life on Earth.Great book.
Necessary reading for anyone wanting to reorganise the jigsaw layman knowledge most of us have about plants and animals.
Very enjoyable book.
I sympathize with another reviewer who didn't want the book to end.
There are so many amazing animals on this earth and I'm sure Attenborough had a hard time deciding what to include and what to leave out.
I was pleased to learn that one of the animals mentioned in the book as probably extinct is actually still around.
This book will make you want to do a little extra research to follow up on what's happened since it was written which isn't exactly a bad thing.
Still my benchmark for nature writing. Even though it is a companion to a television series, the book stands on its own. The science may be somewhat dated, but the drive behind it is as fresh as when written. Attenborough pulls the reader through the evolution of living diversity - as opposed to evolution itself. He is not interested in defending evolution - that's a fait accompli to his mind. Rather, making the reader aware of the fabulous interactive complexity that has arisen over the entire protracted history of life, with a skew towards the recent "complex" organisms.
This is an amazing book and definitely worth the read.
It took me forever to finish, and often times it would put me directly to sleep.
At the same time, I might finish 3 pages, and learn something new and interesting on each page.
This is the type of book that could be re-written in the King James style.
Random chapters or paragaphs taken out of context, quoted and studied for hours.
I am also impressed by how much we knew in 1979, I would love to see how this topic has been updated.
Ill have to keep my eye open for the sequel.
I found this in a used bookstore, and it is such a treasure! Although it is a bit outdated (written in 1979), there's still a lot of good information in here and gorgeous old photos, as well. Some new fun animals facts that I learned: The biggest pangolins have a tongue that can extend 40 cm beyond its mouth. Armadillos can hold their breath for 6 minutes.Female kangaroos can carry three young at various stages of development. A cassowaries call hardly sounds like a bird. It is a deep, booming rumble. Nature is awesome. David Attenborough is awesome. Enough said.
I took forever to finish this book.
Every time I started reading, I would fall asleep.
That is not a reflection of the quality of this book.
It is a well-written book with a fascinating view of --- as it promises --- life on earth.
I was stuck on the first chapter for a very long time before a friend suggested that I should read the book more randomly, rather than in order.
One of the big pluses are the wonderful color pictures in this book.
I imagine I will keep returning to this book for many years to come.
This is an amazing book. It charts how life began on Earth, from random proteins floating in the primordial soup, right up to man. It is totally fascinating and I was amazed at how many animals are still around that resemble really primative lifeforms. The book is full of colour plates that are just breathtaking, and the whole is presented in an easy to read, easy to understand, friendly way. I can't wait to track down the other books in the series.
9/10Friendly introduction into the natural world. People who criticise this as not being 'adult enough' or 'truly scientific' are on the wrong path. This never intends to be that sort of book but aims to be more of an accessible work to innovate interest - and it achieves that to perfection. Great read.
Thirteen chapters matching the thirteen programs of the BBC series on which it was based. Follows the evolution of life on earth, presenting fascinating observations about the likely functional reasons life unfolded as it has. Offers the grand sweep of life in an engaging and integrated presentation, with a very readable and even charming tone, and including more than 100 excellent color photos.
This is no substitute for the fantastic BBC television series of the same name but is so much more than just a useful accompaniment to the programmes. Well worth a read even if you have missed the television series, written in a way that is neither patronising nor too technical for a layman to follow.
What makes this book great is its ability to take the reader through the evolution of life on Earth. This book is old enough that I am sure there is knowledge gained since that is not covered in here but it is a great review nontheless. I highly recommend it for anyone who is curious about evolution, paleontology or the like.
