https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108925.O_Je_rusalem
One of the most beautifully written book on Israel Palestine conflict ever!This book won my heart!It
Violence does not amaze me by itself, but paradoxically it still does when I perceive it within the grander scheme of things happening through Earth's history or of the Universe in its entirety.Still, I would certainly recommend this book, for its superb way of narrating history, a very engaging style; for knowing the history of the region that led to the proclamation of the State of Israel and its fight for the land; of the sufferings of the Arabs in the region; and for its authentic contents, and unbiased views of the writers.P.S.: The revised edition (2007) from which I read, contains 23 pages of (New) Preface, and 16 plates of images in black and white of the writers with people at the time of writing this book (1967-71) and during the making of its 2006 movie.
Less a plodding chronicle than a look at what happened from the perspective of eyewitnesses on the ground and in positions of diplomatic and political responsibility, the authors manage to craft a narrative that is quite gripping.It is most definitely written from the Jewish perspective, though a great deal of the research comes from Arab sources from within the city during the years and months leading up to the outbreak of armed warfare in 1947-8 and the creation of the State of Israel by a U.N. Mandate (known among the Palestinians as "the catastrophe").
In the wake of the unrest in Syria and that part of the world and my growing interest in understanding the history behind this age old struggle, I picked up this book.
This is an account of the war for the independence of Israel which focuses on the struggle between the British and the various Jewish and Moslem armies for Jerusalem.
The war has been described in very graphic detail- brace yourself.
I had to remind myself that this is not fiction at times.If you've always wanted to read/learn more about bethlehem, palestine, gaza, Israel and everything that led to what created the complex yet influential state of Isreal, I highly recommend it.
The story of modern Israel's birth is so innately fascinating that it would be hard to tell in a boring way.
The authors of this book, however, go above and beyond to make their account as riveting as any novel.
I can only imagine the hundreds of hours spent gathering interviews for the countless personal portraits that make this history come to life.Israel in general, and Zionism in particular, is a fairly polarizing topic.
To their credit, however, the authors exhibit little discernible bias toward Jew or Arab.
Donated to CCU 30/10/2014An utterly fascinating, minutely detailed and accurate definite history of the Israeli War of Independence 1948. Hundreds of vignettes make this book a thriller, with heartbreak and joy in rapid succession. Although it is history it reads like a who-done-it, and you turn page after page to see what happens next.Contains, maps, illustrations, b/w photographs, Chapter notes, Bibliography and index.
Wonderfully written account of Israel's war for independence 1947 -48. What I particularly liked about it is the objective view of the conflict from all sides. Having just returned from Jerusalem, where I stayed right inside Jaffa's Gate, the descriptions of the fighting were very real to me.
And therefore, it still is an ongoing debate and, perhaps, an unending struggle to decide who owns Jerusalem, that who has deeper roots in the city, that who can finally claim Jerusalem as their own city – Jewish, Muslims or Christians.Even though the book doesn’t answer this question, it seems the only and an apt choice to name “O Jerusalem” as “O Jerusalem”.Now, like “Freedom at Midnight”, this book too spans over the period of a year, here, from November 29th, 1947 to July 17th, 1948.It all started on 29th November, 1947, when UN declared the partition of Palestine among Arabs and Jews, allowing Jews, who have been struggling for centuries to have their own country, to have their own nation in their part of Palestine, after English rule would end in 1948.
Two years later, at the instigation of the British Mandates political secretary, the rabidly anti-Jewish E.T Robinson, he was appointed "Mufti of Jerusalem", the equivalent of Bishop of a city, with Jewish and not Moslem routes, and a Jewish, not Moslem plurality.Haj Amin El Husseini manipulated his way to becoming President of the Moslem Supreme Council, and in the following years, he set himself up as an unchallenged dictator of all the Moslems in the Holy Land, through a combination of patronage and terror, in which thousands of Arab opponents and potential or suspected opponents where murdered on the orders of the Mufti, in a bloody purge.In 1929, the Mufti orchestrated more violent of Jews in Palestine, covering the Land of Israel in the blood of Jewish men, women and children.When the British finally decided to arrest him, he fled to Beirut and later to Baghdad, where in 1941, he aided in a Nazi-backed plot to overthrow the British government in Iraq.
Ben-Gurion, Glub Pasha, Abdullah Tell, Shaltiel, Avriel and Golda have been perpetually added to the long list of historical figures who, in some way or the other, might influence me in time to come.As with Freedom at Midnight, the books reads like rapidly changing scenes off the streets of Jerusalem, the library of Tel Aviv, the palace of Amman, the fields of intense battle, and underneath the slits of the armoured cars, and despite its mammoth size, it barely ceases to be unputdownable.
I was impressed by the effort made by the authors to be balanced, not painting any side as being totally good or bad.A older friend of mine, Andre, was involved in the events following this war, becoming himself an officer in the Israeli army during the war of independence.
Polish and a communist, he fought in the southern army, accepting the surrender of another middling officer, Gamal Abdel Nasser, with whom he became friends, later serving, until the disgracefully engineered Lavon Affair, as one of the covert military attaches to the Egyptian government.
This book brings to life the tragedies and triumphs of the 1948 War in Palestine/Israel, depending on your point of view.
A terrorist bomb of 55 gal drum filled with rusty nails, bolts and explosive set off amid shoppers and workers catching the bus back home...the work of a Jewish terrorist group.
Personal stories of heroism and sacrifice on both sides work to put you in their place, and to have sympathy and understanding with both sides, as well as anger and disgust.
Ethnic cleansing works as a strategy for both antagonists and yet, there are many examples where Arabs and Jews live together and want to remain friends.
I read O Jerusalem because I liked Freedom at Midnight by the same authors so much.
Freedom at Midnight is definitely the better of the two.
In one instance of recording Jewish atrocities committed during the beginning of partitioning, they are careful to state repeatedly that their information comes from Jewish eye-witnesses at the time and is not propaganda.
However, when presenting Arab atrocities of a similar nature, they don't give any such disclaimer and sometimes don't even say where the information came from.
I will say, in fairness to the authors, it's probably extremely hard to stay unbiased on this issue.
Classic, must read book, about the struggle and hope that eventually led to the birth of Israel.
Rather than crying on who took whose land, it brings out the example of large unorganised & split group one one side and a small but fiercely determined group on the other..........and all the mechanism of pull & push by other western powers.
It also brings out the apathy shown by the middle east and arab rulers in coming to the aid of their bretheren........a costly mistake which they can never undo.
On the other hand, this book also describes the determination of the jews, who made their dream come true.
http://www.amazon.in/O-Jerusalem-Domi...
Kudüs ve Filistin tarihi ile ilgili dilimizde kaynak eser yok denecek kadar az, bu yüzden bu kitap dünyada olduğu kadar ülkemizde de popüler.Kitap İsrail'in kurulması ile başlayan dönemi cephe cephe, kahramanların ve olayların duygularını da içerecek şekilde detaylı olarak anlatmış. Bu yüzden benim gibi zor konsantre olanlar için takibi kolay değil. Kitabın tarafsız bir gözle yazıldığı kanaatindeyim. Tarafsız bir gözle olanları anlamak için iyi bir kaynak eser. Kitap 1972'de yayınlanmış.Kitaptan çıkarttığım bir sonuç da şu: "sistem" çalışmak ve gayret üzerine kurulu. Elbette ihsan, lütuf var, inkar edilemez. Ancak, ne derler, "istisnalar kaideleri güçlendirir."
Holy shit. Wow.
Es un libro magnifico. Se nota que hay una labor de investigación enorme sobre la fundación del Estado de Israel, pero se hace un poco tedioso de la cantidad de anécdotas e historias que narra.
Apart from a visible attempt to document the circumstances accurately (one can never be too sure about history), this book brings to the fore the dilemmas, ambivalence and emotional and mental turmoil of the best politicians and generals of our times.The parts I liked the most are those which demonstrate how through their words, Arab monarchs bound themselves inextricably to a conquest, which often they believed was not theirs.
Would help me if someone can help me find books on Jerusalem's history.
Books on the history of Jews too will help :)
although it focuses on a tiny fragment and constricted geography of a centuries-old conflict, O Jerusalem!
very precisely reflects why these two nations--Jews and Arabs--will never find a way to settle their differences on the path to peace.O Jerusalem!
The first hand accounts are provided by almost all of the actors during the process: politicians, military personnel, volunteers, religious clergy, everyone involved in the struggle to retain and regain the most precious of lands on earth: Jerusalem.Anyone interested in history, the Middle East, colonialism and urban warfare should read this comprehensive book.
"This is how history, should be written" said Golda Meir on reading the book.
Always loved the books of Larry Collins and Domnique Lapierre, their accounts tend to be neutral, objective,well researched.
Unlike Leon Uris Exodus, that is rather one sided in it's potrayal of the Arab-Israeli conflict, this book is more neutral, objective, looks at both sides.
The events leading up to the formation of Israel are well documented, as also the struggles Jews faced in establishing their home land.
A must read book for those wanting to get a background on the Arab-Israel conflict and the Middle East.
A well-researched and seemingly unbiased history of the 1948 birth of Israel.
It was hard to read the graphic parts—after all, it was a war.
I learned a lot about the beginning of Israel and my respect for the Jews grew—they had great tenacity and ingenuity.
I also better understand the Arabs and their plight.
Many of the Jews and Arabs were friends and neighbors before the awful war.
It's sad that when they were displaced after the war, they were ignored by the neighboring Arab countries.
I thought this was an excellent history book that reads more like a novel.
This is an excellent book, one I want for my permanent library. It tells the story of the creation of the State of Israel together with the determination, suffering and personal sacrifice of those who accomplished it. It is well written and documented. It is a testament of the few and many who did all that was necessary to bring into being dreams that were thousands of years old.
O Jerusalem is yet another proof of Collins and Lapierre's amazing skills of narration. They remind us once again that there is a story in history. A gripping narrative, quite unbiased (although not completely), painstakingly recreates the events around the birth of Israel, with a dramatic flair that is typical of the pair.
Ho trovato questo libro molto interessante...mi ha fatto conoscere nel particolare eventi che conoscevo solo in generale .E' un libro scritto con grande competenza, precisione e imparzialità.Lo consiglio vivamente a chi da profano vuole approcciarsi all'argomento.
One of the greatest books ever written!! The story of Jews coming back to their homeland and how they built a nation brick by brick!
I don't think any war book can come as close to this book, in terms of research and neutrality. I would certainly count it amongst the best books I've read so far. History has become my escape now.
Excellent history lesson
O Jerusalem is a detailed account of the Arab- Israeli war in 1947-1948 for Jerusalem and Israel’s statehood upon the partitioning of Palestine into two states, Jewish and Arab, by the UN.
The 1948 war created several hundred thousand Arab refugees who had lived in Palestine for generations and were unwanted by the other Arab countries.Golda Meir and David Ben Gurion are discussed in the book and you get a sense of their respective powers though I️ would loved to read more about them.
