https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48855.The_Diary_of_a_Young_Girl
She thought and wrote over few such things that didn’t occur to my mind until I read it but have applied throughout my life.
I remember the letter exchange between two sisters, at that point after reading Margot’s letter, for the first time I realised Anne was still child among them.Some say she could visualize herself and her thoughts and actions from different perspective and thus realise her fault.The thing with diary is that it is a lopsided view of the events.
My intention of writing a review for this book is to tell all the negative reviewers to SHUT UP!
I am all for everyone's right to express their opinion but I read a few of the '1 star' reviews and I was shocked to read what a few people had to say about this book.
Before making an opinion I suggest people to keep a few things in mind:1.
For those who comment on the writing-This is a 14year old's diary!!
This only means that a lot of people are emotional about this book and take negative reviews as a personal insult.
While reading Anne Frank – The Diary of a Young Girl I do not get the sense that there is any such ‘filtering’ going on.
From the ages of 12-15 Anne lived an extraordinary life, and quickly grew far beyond her years in her understanding and handling of a horrendous situation.There are surprises in this book.
No matter how broad or limited your understanding of the world events that threw Anne and her family into a life in hiding, I had – before reading this – held the general assumption that, “Well, it was wartime.
If it meant that this spirited, intelligent and articulate girl hadn't died along with so many others in Belsen concentration camp, and that the holocaust had never happened, that would be a wonderful thing, but it did happen, and that makes the reading of this diary even more heartbreaking.For a 13 year old girl, Anne was so articulate - the way she expresses her thoughts and feelings about herself and others is remarkable.
After being interned in two concentration camps, Anne and her sister Margot were finally sent to Bergen-Belsen where they both died - Anne was just 15 years old.

I didn't think about this scenario but commenting about other thing with a reader friend, that thought stuck in my mind.I invested so much time in that because, one has to be honest, the book is tedious since it's not really a novel, it's a collection of diary writings without a coherent line of constructing a story, even you need editors' further notes to know what happened to the people in the Secret Annex since obviously, Anne was unable to tell the final events.So, since it's so tedious, I wouldn't be surprised that some reader tried to read it but at the end they just rated with 5 stars to denote that they are "cultured" readers that they appreciate the book as one of the most important books of the 20th century.Between the passages, you learn a lot of things.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. One cannot fathom what other marvelous books the world might have known had this talented, perceptive girl been permitted the life she was due. "We don't want our belongings to be seized by the Germans, but we certainly don't want to fall into their clutches ourselves. So we shall disappear of our own accord and not wait until they come and fetch us.""But, Daddy, when would it be?" He spoke so seriously tha
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.
One cannot fathom what other marvelous books the world might have known had this talented, perceptive girl been permitted the life she was due.
So we shall disappear of our own accord and not wait until they come and fetch us.""But, Daddy, when would it be?" He spoke so seriously that I grew very anxious.
"Don't worry about it, we shall arrange everything.
Make the most of your carefree young life while you can." That was all.
For her 13th birthday Anne Frank received a diary she dubbed Kitty.
It is through Kitty that Anne records her thoughts and daily life living behind a bookcase in the secret annex.When I was younger I went through a "holocaust" phase before moving on to Harriet Tubman and slavery.
The funny thing is that Anne Frank's Diary was not the first Holocaust book I read, I think that was The Devil's Advocate.
Anne's dream was to have her diary published after the war and after liberation her father saw that happen, making Kitty a time capsule to an unfathomable past.
That thing, the reason I have put off reading this, happened.
Sure, I had heard of Anne Frank, I knew who she was, what she did, what happened.
But I didn't make the really personal connection until I read her words, this diary.
She thinks, even writes, very much like a young girl would today.
I think that's why so many young people feel a connection with her still.
Yes, Anne's words do give her life, and they will break your heart.
But more importantly they resonate across time and around the world, and I expect they always will.
The diary was retrieved by Miep Gies, who gave it to Anne's father, Otto Frank, the family's only known survivor, just after the war was over.
The diary has since been published in more than 60 languages.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوازدهم ماه اکتبر سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: آن فرانک - خاطرات یک دختر جوان؛ نویسنده: آن فرانک؛ مترجم: رویا طلوع؛ در 327 ص؛ ای.بوکخاطرات «آن فرانک» یادداشتهای روزانه ی یک دختر نوجوان یهودی ست که در تابستان سال 1942 میلادی در بحبوحه ی جنگ جهانگیر دوم، در وحشت از نازی‌ها، مجبور شد همراه با اعضای خانواده‌ اش، در شهر آمستردام به زندگی مخفی روی آورد.
There really isn’t anything I can add that many other reviews haven’t already done. It’s a five star read because it is important, because it is real and because the holocaust is something we should never forget.
Ya gotta hand it to this teen girl who was writing about her life with such clarity and eloquence when her life was hanging by a thread.I've read reviews of The Diary of a Young Girl that complained about how Frank ignored the bigger picture of the war and that her subject matter was trite, whiny and insular.
What else could it be, this diary of a teen secreted away in the compact environs of an attic with the same people for years learning little-to-no outside information?From the standpoint of a detached, pure read, the fact that the diary includes a love interest is a blessing.
But even without it, it's a wonderful and at times intense read.
My mother's family came from Berlin and my father's from Frankfurt.
Yes, the same Frankfurt as the Franks.
Anyway, my father (whose father did not leave Germany and was eventually deported and killed) became an academic specialist in German politics and I spent several years of my childhood in Germany.
One year was 7th grade.
Before we left my father's mother gave me Anne Frank's diary and a diary.
Later, upon visiting the Anne Frank House in Amsterdam and seeing her original diary, I realized that mine was just like hers.
Anne's voice still echoes in my mind these many years later.
All of this, I knew, I’d been told many a time in history class.As it turns out, Anne’s story goes so much deeper than that; I’d only grazed the bare surface.
Anne was and sounded very young at the beginning of her diary, but over time she grows so intelligent and self-evaluating and she was so very wise way beyond her years at the mere age of fifteen.
How she would laugh if only she knew that her diary had been read by so many people, that the Achterhuis/Secret Annexe in Amsterdam gets a million visits a year, that she’s practically the most famous child of the twentieth century.I am so incredibly moved that words can hardly express what I’m feeling.
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to The Diary of a Young Girl, written during the 1940s by Anne Frank. Many are first exposed to this modern-day classic during their middle or high school years, as a way to read a different type of literature from that of an ordinary novel. In this diary, young Anne express her thoughts (both positive and negative) over a two-year period during which her family and friends are in hiding during World War II and the Holocaust. For most of us, this is one of the few
Many are first exposed to this modern-day classic during their middle or high school years, as a way to read a different type of literature from that of an ordinary novel.
For most of us, this is one of the few ways we can actually read or hear the words from someone who was actually there and went through this, especially if you don't know anyone who was alive during this time period in the 1930s and 1940s in Germany and the surrounding areas.
I read this in my 9th grade English course, and I remember disliking it a lot.
While her story is sad, the naked Emperor cult around this book is unmerited.The key quotation about people being basically good at heart is absurd in the light of the story, and from a theological perspective, just plain wrong.
Whoever thinks this books is boring is because they simply fail to realize, or even imagine the conditions in which this diary was written under.
To think how this young girls personal life continued beyond the details of the war is rather remarkable.
What would anyone else have written about in their diary as young boy or girl in the same predicament as the Franks?
You can't read this journal and think it's just an ordinary diary of a young girl, because it's not.
Anne's diary is a representation of how other Jewish families lived and coped during the Nazi war.
I really wish I had a different translation of this book because this one lacks a lot of the personality and ease compared to the audiobook version I partially listened to.
(this is also why This Star Won't Go Out made me sob.) Anne surprised me with how real and relatable she is, and she really seems to grow into her writing style and throughout the book you can note a change in her maturity and the way she describes and reflects on things.
Had this book been easier to get through it would have been 5 stars, but some parts just dragged for me.
And Frank is very bright, but not bright enough to make great reading out of a young girl's diary.Thumbs up for the hot girl on girl action (which you may have missed if you didn't read the unexpurgated version - I'm not kidding about this, Anne Frank totally made out with a chick), but in the pantheon of literature about being locked in an attic, Flowers in the Attic is still the gold standard.
Nunca sabré hasta qué punto su diario fue modificado por las editoriales o incluso por el padre de Ana, aun así, definitivamente Ana fue una persona con pensamientos muy profundos para su edad, muy autocritica, a veces realista, a veces optimista, y claro con momentos de suma inocencia, se nota que es una persona real quien nos está relatando todo lo que acontece; ahora ¿debería ser leído?
Creo que solo lo recomendaría, y espero no sonar machista (oh ahora si me van a matar) a chicas en edades escolares (mmm quizás por eso sea de lectura obligatoria en algunos países) porque como literatura juvenil de tiempos de guerra no está mal, y digo chicas porque pueden conectar más con Ana.
In a world in which so few teenagers (or adults, for that matter) seem to stop and give thanks for what they have (instead chirping about what they want or complaining about what they don't have), Anne Frank faced the most unfair of cruelties with a certain strength and grace that crushes nearly any "problem" kids or adults face.
How did Anne Frank find the strength to keep her head and record her thoughts during such an unbelievably difficult time?" In a world desperate for heroes and tired (though indelibly enamored by) spoiled athletes, stories like this are once-in-a-lifetime.
I will simply say that I feel extremely guilty rating the book this low, but I hope people understand that it doesn't reflect my view of the Holocaust as a whole, or my views of Anne Frank as a person.
I am in possession of something that unnamed girl loved, just as reading Anne's diary, and there's an eerie sense of abandonment in the object being left behind but their owners having perished long before their time.Granted, I'm Jewish, but I can't help but feel that simply by being alive and knowing of the Holocaust and of genocides in general, I am doing them a disservice.
Most people were angry at the reviewer because they had the temerity to criticise Anne, A HOLOCAUST VICTIM, for God's sake!
This viewpoint seems to me rather silly - anything published for general consumption is open to both positive and negative reviews.The second most common comment was that this was the diary of a teenaged girl, and never meant to be read for its literary merits - and I do agree with this.
As with any diary, its primary merit is as a first-hand account of an important period in history.I read it when I was roughly Anne's age.
I think majority of the populous knows what happened to Anne Frank and her family, but if you do not please skip my review.
I remember how much that place affected me when we had a field trip, so I know reading Anne's diary would do the same.
I just didn't know how bad.Anne Frank is a young Jewish girl living in Holland, during WW2.
Her diary is written during the time her and her family went into hiding in the "Secret Annex" for 2 years.
After the first year something changed in young Anne, and she finally faced the reality of the situation.
Her voice resonated in my head every day since I’ve started this book , she became my friend and I adored her charm and wit.
I was impressed of how emotional intelligent she was , how much she grows up in such a short time.
And through the whole book my heart was broken because I knew the end .
I’m emotional thinking about Anne and this book and I know that this connection will not disappear any time soon.
If it is for some good at this point in time , in my heart this story will stay for years to come .
پدر و مادر عزیزم، دوستان عزیز! این پایان کار من است. آمدهاند که من را برای تیرباران شدن ببرند، به جهنم. مردن در منتهای پیروزی کمی تاسفآور است، اما چه اهمیتی دارد؟ اهمیت یک واقعه تنها در خیال آدمیست - پییر بنوآ 8 فوریه 1943 / برداشت آزاد از نامههای تیرباران شدههانامهای به آن فرانکدخترک عزیزمتا امروز هرگز پیش نیامده بود که گذر از یک صفحهی کتاب به صفحهی آخر برایم چنین عذابآور و ناراحت کننده باشد. کتابهای زیادی خواندهام که نویسنده آن را نیمهکاره رها کرده، اما هیچ پایان باز و به سرانجام نرسیدهای این
مردن در منتهای پیروزی کمی تاسف‌آور است، اما چه اهمیتی دارد؟ اهمیت یک واقعه تنها در خیال آدمی‌ست - پییر بنوآ 8 فوریه 1943 / برداشت آزاد از نامه‌های تیرباران شده‌هانامه‌ای به آن فرانکدخترک عزیزمتا امروز هرگز پیش نیامده بود که گذر از یک صفحه‌ی کتاب به صفحه‌ی آخر برایم چنین عذاب‌آور و ناراحت کننده باشد.
اگرچه زندگی تو از دست رفت، اما عشقِ تو به زندگی، به درخت، به آسمان در قلب ما نیرویی شد برای مبارزه با آن بخش از سرشت انسان که فرصت زیستن را از تو گرفت، تا سرنوشت تو در کودکان دیگر تجسم نیابد، تا تو و پتر آخرین فرزندان انسان باشید که به صلیب بی‌عدالتی و تبعیض کشیده می‌شوید.
I was a little surprised that there wasn't more about the atrocities that were happening around them instead of all the turmoil in the household.
Until she and her family went into hiding, she hadn't had a lot of worldly awareness so she wrote about what was happening around her, and that was everything that went on in that household with those people.
I think it would be almost impossible for most people to live like that.
Most of their German Christian and Catholic friends were wonderful people who actually put their lives on the line to protect these two families.
What you actually gain is a deep insight into a young girl's psyche through the pages of a poorly-written (albeit fascinating) diary, which was kept while Anne and her family remained hidden in a house for 2 years, in their effort to escape Nazis.
After reading the first 20 entries the reader immediately begins to realize that Anne has an extraordinary personality.
Towards the end of the book her entries become more lucid, more introspective and full of self-criticism which shows that Anne has changed, she is more mature and far more self-aware.
i mean, the diary makes it sound like they're living in a matchbox when even the hideaway part is two stories and far bigger than anywhere i've ever lived--FRANKly (HA!) i don't know how it took anyone that long after the house was seized to realize that some floors were missing when you entered it...
once my good friend told my other good friend's young girlfriend that she looked astonishingly like anne frank.
the girl freaked out and made a huge, public scene about how horrifying that was but everyone saw it, the resemblance i mean, a little bit anyway.
much like the qualitative relationship of half of my reviews to their books...sorry.
The thing that amazes me the most about this book is what an amazingly talented writer Anne was. Seriously, she started her diary when she was thirteen, and her writing is better than some famous modern authors I could name. *coughStephanie Meyercough* Anne was already writing like a sensitive, intelligent adult by the time she was fifteen. If she had lived, and continued writing, there is no doubt in my mind that she would now be considered one of the best authors of her time.
