https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77956.Lancelot
”It's a whole new beginning that's wanted, a new order, nothing less than a Third Revolution for America, the First having been the one in 1776, which succeeded, and the Second having been the one in 1861, which failed ‘because we got stuck with the Negro thing and it was our fault.’"I was actually liking my Raymond Chandler reading Lancelot Andrewes Lamar, but the rants he gets into are frankly bat shit crazy.
"In times like these when everyone is wonderful, what is needed is a quest for evil.You should be interested!
His big issue, I believe, in this book is how modern institutions (technocrats and modern psychology) not only enable often the worst in society, in the name of the good, but that other institutions (the Church) in this modern age are powerless often to prevent this attack on morality.
While I don't always agree with Percy, his novels seem to resonate hard with me.
There is always something with Percy that I don't quite like, something that doesn't quite square.
What a waste it is to lose one's mind, or not to have a mind. How true that is. U.S. V. Pres. Dan Quayle, in May 1989 speech to United Negro College Fund whose motto is, "a mind is a terrible thing to waste."A first person narrative told through monologues and recollections of a despondent attorney who has been committed to a mental institution for murdering his infidel wife shortly after learning that another man sired his youngest daughter. This Lancelot says he's on an Arthurian quest to unv
Dan Quayle, in May 1989 speech to United Negro College Fund whose motto is, "a mind is a terrible thing to waste."A first person narrative told through monologues and recollections of a despondent attorney who has been committed to a mental institution for murdering his infidel wife shortly after learning that another man sired his youngest daughter.
the only creature on Earth in perpetual heat...
good for only one thing: eye to eye, face to face, belly to belly, breast to breast, day in and day out, in heat the year 'round.
Lancelot's story is retold entirely within his disturbed mind from a single room in an institution with but one window through which he can glimpse a fragment of his past life.
It is a story of the past told from the beginning chronologically, leaving you in anticipation and yearning for more information.
But when the story is finally told you have a satisfying and complete picture.
Beautifully, it is through his tragedy that his numbness to the world is finally alleviated, but with the caveat that another altogether separate conflict is born within himself.
No matter which camp the reader finds him or herself falling into, there is no way to not find the book compelling, challenging, and a place to begin to do substantial cultural criticism.
Read this one for Sawyers Book Club on myspace, and becuase it is on the Lost Lit List....I like the format... narrator speaks to reader as tho they are part of the story (one sided conversation). I did not like all the lost trains of thought. The narrator would lead you towards an answer, or explanation and then veer off for pages and pages, almost seeming to have lost his orginal point. I did not like the ending at all. Perhaps my copy is missing the last few pages?? (sadly, i know this is not the case....)
There's no one here analogous to Mozart, but nevertheless a crime has been committed, and (like Salieri in the film) the man who felt driven to do it is now sorting out the meaning of it all while addressing a silent priest-like figure.As such, this becomes a meditation on good and evil, on what matters and what does not, and it covers material that Percy handles in his other novels: Essentially, a character awakens to find himself in degenerate circumstances and considers the choices before him.I'm trying to read all his books again, roughly 30 years after the first pass, in order to get them straight in my mind and understand their common ground.
Percy continues diagnosing the "modern malaise" here through the eyes of a man that snapped out of his malaise through a single event.
The man, now institutionalized, recounts the events of that lead to where he is, as he also rants and raves about the status of his life before and what the future holds.
There are points where Percy's own views come through the speaker in the story, but there are also points where the speaker just raves lunacy (the break between Percy's own views and the speaker's is clear because percy is catholic and the speaker is somewhat hostile to relgion and faith).
De-centering and dyspeptic, this Percy bit gets at the heart of the nihilism that has seduced some quarters of contemporary thought. The chivalric instincts of a would-be Knight of Faith is tossed into the mix of seventies soft-porn manners....mannners cultivated and then subverted by all that Southern stuff.
“I cannot tolerate this age. And I will not.”A slow-burning and darkly funny jeremiad, told with the kind of brutal eloquence Southern storytellers pull off better than anyone else. Think ‘Fight Club’ by way of Flannery O’Connor.
Bu nasil olabildi onu da bilmiyorum ama onemli bir cagdas Amerikan yazari oldugunu da bilmiyordum.
Zaten bir zina (!) hikayesi islendigi icin kahramana Lancelot adi bilerek verilmis.
Dini reddedip, dinden daha beter bir yobazlik romatizmi vardi mesela.
Dogrusu ben kiskancliktan kendini kaybeden birinin herkesi ve herseyi anlamsiz ve berbat bulmasindan baska bir sey goremedim.
Fakat ; bazi Amerikan sehirleri ve Kuzey ve Guney ile ilgili yapilan muthis tespitler vardi.
Did you ever watch anybody pick up a newspaper and read the headline PLANE CRASH KILLS THREE HUNDRED?
When is the last time you saw anybody horrified?”
The spiritual slumber, that seems to be the condition of thelate 20th century, is caused by the transition from spirituality to technology.We get our sustenance from technology as opposed to 'the land' where we would feel a closer spiritual connection.
Previously that was the only choice, the land, God , there were not many alternatives or time to think of alternatives, as work & survival was a full time job.Now we have a relatively new notion of free time and science has led us to believe that a God is not needed to provide for us.
This causes confusion in spiritual choices.
Catcher in the Rye for adults
Lancelot Andrewes Lamar is a man alienated from the world, trying to find a sense a purpose in the midst of “sinful suffering humanity.” His story is told in a unique first-person voice directed at Father Smith, who is visiting Lancelot in his hospital/prison room.
Lancelot himself declares that he has embarked on “the quest for the unholy grail.” With no moral standard to govern his soul, he is left no choice but to embrace evil as commonplace, right and wrong as mere social constructs.“In times when nobody is interested in God, what would happen if you could prove the existence of sin, pure and simple?
The novel is his description of this quest to an old high school and college friend, turned Catholic priest, turned doctor, Percival, from the asylum in which Lancelot is a patient.
6. I'll wait and give your God time.We never hear Percival speak (until the final page), but the novel is really about the effect that Lancelot's recounting of his quest has on him.
If, by the penultimate page, you are not simultaneously agreeing with and horrified by Lancelot's rant against the modern world, I don't think you can follow the novel.
The more he focuses on Margot, the woman who betrayed him, or his ancestral homestead along the Mississippi, Belle Isle, the more involved we (I) become.Lancelot is the scion of a withered New Orleans family, a lawyer, a cuckold, and a reasonably heavy drinker.
The lesser characters are just that--lesser--and in the end it seems Margot is lesser, too, a woman who drove Lancelot mad once upon a time but has lost interest in him.
I found Percy's technique of a one-sided dialogue to be a beguiling way to set the stage for the final exchange between the two principal characters, giving the priest's monosyllabic responses to Lancelot's profoundly distressing narrative of unhinged revenge a weight and hopefulness that give me all the more reason to admire him as a writer.
I would not recommend this book for general readership, for the simple reason that Percy is all too deft in his portrayal of a mind poisoned by the dark relativism of a world bereft of all spiritual significance or openness to the transcendent.
A modern day rendition of the legend of Lancelot and the search for the Holy Grail, set somewhere between the 60s-70s the narrator of the story Lance (which happens to be short for Lancelot) becomes disillusioned with the world upon the discovery that his wife whom he had loved, was unfaithful to him.
The entire story unravels itself from within a mental insistution where Lance ended up after the discovery of his wife's infidelity.
It is only in the final pages of the book when Percival the psychologist/priest and Lancelot's old friend decides to embrace his priestly calling that the possibility of a different source of meaning is presented.
Percival who has listened silently to the story of Lancelot's quest for meaning in evil is, in the last lines of the book, asked if he has anything to say.
Percival's Yes, which I take to be the gospel, is left as at least a possible alternative to Lancelot's search to find life in negation and death.
I marked this as "want to read" because I always want to read Walker Percy's books.
There are two ways to read Percy.
Another is to read the book once through and then read it again thoughtfully.
As a Catholic Percy found living in "his place of nowhere" in Covington, Louisiana a metaphor for living as a Christian in a secular society.
Stranger in a strange land but one who gets all the jokes and puts his arm around our God smiling, saying along with Him "all shall be well!
and all manner of things shall be well!" (Julian of Norwich).
A man realizes he's been sleeping his way through life when he learns of his wife's infidelity.
Life has no meaning.
Percy writes so well.June 2015-re read.
Lancelot tells his priest friend that life is meaningless.
The priest is silent throughout until the very end.
Can the priest show Lancelot meaning?
If so, is it just for Lancelot or for each one of us.
This novel is at times quite funny.
It also is very serious as it addresses how so many of us go through the motions because we see no real purpose to our time in this world.
Glad I read it again.
Percy here explores the only two possibilities for human existence--the ultimate choice between good and evil--through the search of "Lancelot" for the "unholy grail," a purely evil act. While Lancelot's quest proves a failure--and perhaps must, given the nature of the modern world--he does conclude correctly in the end that there are two potential futures and each depends upon the road we take in our understanding of humanity and, above all, of the self.
Lancelot has interesting moments. Certainly the character portrait is very interesting. However, I found other aspects of it (such as a constant stream of hints that the modern world is hopelessly degenerate) tiresome. It would be good for people who are interested in looking at the idea of evil and Hell from the Christian standpoint. I won't say it's a bad book, because it isn't. For some reason that I can't explain, it rubbed me the wrong way.
I just loved it. I couldn't put it down. It's a Southern as you can come, with gritty one-liners that don't happen once-a-chapter, but once-a-page, once-a-paragraph. It's about sex. Mostly sex, but also of love (what is it) and sin (a quest for it) and front porches and Southern aristocracy, and if you're very careful, even a waft of Lancelot and Perceval. The first-person narrative simply sweeps away. Recommended. [If the c-word offends you, then perhaps re-consider this book.]
My review of this book might change in the next few days. I read it, I love it, but unfortunately, the last line blew up my entire understanding of the story.So, it's fantastic in the usual painful, song of songs sort of way that Walker Percy liked to write. But I'm trying to find someone to explain the dern thing to me.
i can't say i loved it...it's only the second book of his that i've read. although i think as a reader, i have this problem of being too sympathetic to the protaganist. sometimes they're just not good people, but i don't allow for that until the end, and then i'm disappointed? i don't know if that makes sense. but there it is. maybe i'm missing the point somehow.
For a book about adultery, murder, insanity, and arson you wouldn't expect to laugh as much as I did reading Walker Percy's Lancelot. The book is wonderfully narrated and an interesting commentary on modern life.
good read. didn't make as big an impression as some of the other percy stories...but he can tell a good yarn. i like his style...the way he uses language, words. so forth so on.
What a great book, and completely relevant.
In the end, I enjoyed reading this novel, because it really does play on the whole Lancelot-madness theme as found in the original Arthurian cycle and sets it squarely in a contemporary and imagined New Orleans.
In short, this is a contemporary depiction of a Lancelot who aspires for the Grail, even catches glimpses as he does in Malory, but never really attains his quest or sees it whole, much like that incomplete sign, which he can only see partially from his cell.
It is possible of course that there is no such thing and that a true sin, like the Grail, probably does not exist.”In Malory, Lancelot never does really give up his sin until the very end of the book.
