https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/919473.Abraham_Lincoln
The author of a half-dozen other books, Thomas took his own life in 1956 after receiving a cancer diagnosis.Oldest of the five Lincoln biographies I’ve read so far, Thomas’s “Abraham Lincoln” has aged well.
Where another author might rush through the description of, for example, the dilapidated Illinois state capital building, Thomas lingers an extra moment in order to form a more vivid and lasting impression of the object in the reader’s mind.Relative to more recent biographies of Lincoln I’ve read, Thomas’s provides a far better comparison of the relative strengths and weaknesses of the North and the South as they headed to war.
You have to be careful about Lincoln books because people’s opinions on Lincoln are very strong. Paleo-conservatives hate him and think he’s a liberal. Others want to cast him as a godless racist. I prefer to read “dry” histories of Lincoln that include a lot of his writings. I think a fairly good one is Abraham Lincoln by Benjamin Thomas. It gives a detailed history from the lives of his parents to his death and is written at a high school level.
I love this book because I love this man! Abraham Lincoln is my hero. One of the first people I want to meet in heaven:)
Lincoln always seemed to focus on what was right, not what massaged his ego or boosted his personal interest.Thomas allows the facts to speak for themselves while also recognizing who Lincoln was as a man, as a leader, as the President.
In describing Lincoln's persuasive ability, Thomas states that Lincoln "appealed to reason rather than emotion, while remembering that the mind is best reached through the heart." That could very well describe what Thomas accomplished in this biography - an objective account of Lincoln's life that stirs the heart while informing the mind.
When a big event like Gettysburg occurs Thomas doesn't shift gears into the role of historian to write 20 pages on this most crucial battle.
Benjamin Thomas made me realize how much of my Lincoln knowledge was built on John Ford's myth-making film, Young Mr. Lincoln.
The book also helps one appreciate Steven Spielberg's Lincoln film.
While nearly every conversation of that film is likely fiction those moments are very true to Lincoln's character and personality.
The genius of Thomas's biography is that he gives you the story and the reader can't help wondering how all of those pieces arranged differently would look.
The first half of the book traces Lincoln's life as a child, farmer, general labourer, lawyer, politician, husband and father. The second half covers his Presidency and the Civil War. I found this to be easy to read but the second half covers a lot of the Civil War and took my attention away from the man and more onto the events. By the end of the book I did not have a better feel for Lincoln the man.
This is one of the best biographies that I have ever read. It is a well written and well thought out book. I did not know much about President Lincoln, other than what is known by most, and now I feel as if I knew him well enough to call him a close friend. I can not recommend this book enough to anyone interested.
A long, comprehensive study of Lincoln’s life. Generally praising of Lincoln, it presents a balanced argument in several episodes of his life.
Like other boys his age, he was expected to help support the family.When he was nine, his mother died.At the age of 22, the company he worked for went bankrupt and he lost his job.At 23, he ran for state legislature in a field of 13 candidates.
By the end of the year, the business failed.
At 25, he ran for state legislature again.
But his fiancée died before the wedding.The next year he plunged into a depression and suffered a nervous breakdown.At 29, he sought to become the speaker of the state legislature.
The book of Benjamin Platt Thomas titled " Abraham Lincoln" describes about life and mission of specific person .
Moreover, with his knowledge and consciousness, he was leading the U.S. through one of the biggest problem which was Civil War. Many states were trying to make secession led by South Carolina.After that, he was able to reunion states in the country and solve and fundamental many radicals such as, abolish of slavery, taxes, railroads, and currency.
There are also three elements of this book which are life is not always beautiful, consciousness and knowledge are important for solving any problems, and leadership is the best element for the president.
This is a wonderful book if you want to know about Abraham Lincoln, his presidency and the war. I feel even more grateful to him for all he did and went through to keep our country one nation! He was kind and compassionate and he was a good man. He made mistakes, but he tried to do the best he could and he tried to do what was right. I'm so glad I read this and especially at this time just before the anniversary of his birthday and President's Day where we remember and honor him. Thank you President Lincoln!

Thomas wrote this book in 52, and sometimes it sounds a little old-fashioned, but it's very readable and I'm learning a lot about someone who has long fascinated me. It's actually a selection for a book group we're in, and one of our members made inquiries to find a good Lincoln biography. Next, I'm onto Doris Kearns Goodwin's "Team of Rivals," and then the Garry Wills book about the Gettysburg address.
Best one volume biography on Lincoln among legions of competitors. Elegant and fluid writing. His conclusions match the reliable evidence. No hype, no hyperbole, no far-out claims based on scanty evidence. Just solid history and biography. Professor Gates of Harvard could learn a thing or two from this kind of research and writing.
Honest Abe was involved in wrestling local ruffians? Fantastic. I read this just before Obama was elected, and I sincerely hoped there would be some wrestling stories about Obama, to tie it all together ... alas no such luck. But the book is an interesting read, especially the portions devoted to Abe's early life.
A straightforward summary of Lincoln's life. I was particularly interested in one part of Lincoln's life (right before his election) and a chapter in this book covered that part well. A few other places in the book (the war battles) were not written as clearly.
The book revealed the political motivation of Lincoln as well as the context. I hoped to get a perspectctive of the Lincoln as a moral philosopher. It seemed to me that the book did not not cover that aspect well.
Not a bad book. I am actually getting ready to read Burlingame's 2 volume set on Lincoln entitles, "Abraham Lincoln: A Life." Most Lincoln scholars say it's the best bio on Lincoln ever done. This book, however, falls a little flat.
Great book, sometimes the author writes too too much detail for me that seem unecessary, but licoln was an amazing man and this proves it. His characters was deep, and confusing and at times he seems at war with himself. But remains true to his core beliefs.
Very good read.
An older biography, but well written and insightful
Excellent biography
Good Book
a very bright president but there are many things that i never thought abraham lincoln said anout slavery
A bio that hits all the highlights.
The life of Abraham lincon inspires me to don't give up on my dreams.
I got this at a debate tournament as an award... And read about the first 20 pages. It seemed pretty interesting but mostly it collects dust.
Abraham Lincoln is perhaps the only person in history I am obsessed with. I find him intriguing and fascinating. I have read quote a few of his biographies and this one did not disappoint.
A little uninspired, but a good foundation for future reading.
Abraham Lincoln Biography is a well written book. It goes into great detail of his life. This is a good book to use with children when teaching them about the civil war.
