https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77632.Trouble_in_Triplicate
There are pleasures for the Nero Wolfe addict in this wartime collection of three novellas, but this is far from Rex Stout's best. Highlight: chafing under WW II rationing, Wolfe the gourmet works for a crime boss in order to obtain good black market meat.
Archie is dead set on refusing to take case (this has got to be the first time), but there is a severe meat shortage in US and Nero Wolfe do not consider a meal without meat as such.
He accepts the offer in exchange for a nice chunk of beef - in addition to his regular fees.This is probably the closest a Nero Wolfe story came to noir.
A guy who helped Nero Wolfe discover an intelligence leak during the wartime came to the detective again: somebody sent him a life threatening letter.
Nero Wolfe refuses to help and as a result the guy is dead.
Rather enjoyable collection comprising of three novellas, all of which were utterly preposterous in terms of credibility, but were highly enjoyable.In "Before I Die" Wolfe takes a case on behalf of a Mob Boss, to protect his daughter and her lawful inheritance. The story was so "made up" that I felt like reading a Bollywood movie."Help Wanted, Male" has Wolfe fearing for his life, and trying to take protection by hiring a double. But then..."Instead of Evidence" was silly, predictable, and huge fun.So, you get three delightful reads between two covers.
always love the adventures of Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin.
I've only read the first story in this volume (so far), which is 'Before I Die'. Enjoyed it, but not terribly mad about the Nero Wolfe mysteries like my mom and one of my best friends are. :P
This one was three short stories, but they were all good. There was nothing about the nemesis, so whoever said you had to read 13-15 in order, was incorrect.
I enjoyed each of the 3 novellas in this volume. Details to come...
I love the way Rex Stout writes about Nero, Archie, and the household. Not my first Stout story but one that I did miss somehow- and it gave me a delightful evening of light reading.
Trouble in triplicateI just can't stop reading the Nero Wolfe books by Rec Stout. this is another winner. The pairing of Wolfe and Goodwin is excellent. but I have to say Saul Panzer and Fritz give the books a tie that keeps you wanting to see more and more of them. in my minds eye I see the characters acted out by actors who played a few years ago. Even if you didn't see the few episodes that were made. I think you will enjoy getting to know the characters. stout is an excellent story teller.
(He's part of the mob, and he's afraid the real one will be murdered by rivals, so he's set up a fake one as cover.) He initially hires Wolfe to deal with his blackmailing fake!daughter, but ends up making Wolfe his real!daughter's guardian in case he's murdered (and then is promptly murdered, on Wolfe's stoop no less!) Wolfe has to earn his fee by finding out who killed his client.In "Help Wanted, Male", someone involved in a previous Wolfe case comes to Wolfe frightened because he's received a death threat.
The potential client promptly ends up murdered - and then Wolfe receives an identical death threat...
Such aspects made it easy for me to figure out 'whodunnit' in the first two stories (and I still feel like I ought to have figured out the third one as well, though I unfortunately started down the wrong track there and so was a bit surprised in the end).Much closer to three stars than one, these are not bad (and they're quite funny as usual), they're just not as good as Stout's longer narratives.
I really enjoy the Nero Wolfe short story collections because it proves that Rex Stout didn't need an entire novel to flesh out a good mystery tale.
My favorite from this collection was Help Wanted, Male, because it gives us more of Archie's struggles to participate in WWII as something more than just government-paid assistant to Wolfe.
The changes in their routine because of the war, as well as because of the case, are enlightening and entertaining.
I will never get enough of Archie Goodwin, and these little morsels were still quite satisfying.
I look forward to each collection of shorts I still have ahead of me.
Three short stories starring Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin.
This has made me want to go to my shelves and pull out some of my old Rex Stout books.
The introduction by Randy Russell was a waste of time - I recommend skipping it, especially if you are new to Rex Stout.
The three stories are: Before I Die; Help Wanted, Male (this was quite funny in places); and Instead of Evidence (this had some interesting twists.) They are too short to even try to give a synopsis - read and enjoy them for yourselves!
Highly recommended (but then I love Archie and Nero.)
This is a pleasant collection of three Nero Wolfe. All set toward the end of WWII, they offer a little slice of life for Wolfe & Archie during the war. The stories themselves are on the slight side with not enough time to unfold a fully formed story. However, even though it’s not the best, it is an enjoyable read.
Three good Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin novellas. Set in the immediate post second WWII period, these are three excellent stories from the classic period, when Rex Stout had figured out and established his characters, but before Archie became an anachronism.
This was very fun!!! Had me laugh out loud a few times. How does Rex Stout produce SO MUCH and do it SO WELL?!
Three superb short stories.
These are fun stories; Archie is at his Archie-est.
Second Nero Wolf book I have read. Three short stories. Taking place during the 40's three murders three different ways. I would love to see the Orchard room.
Three great short stories featuring Nero Wolfe and Archie.
I like the stories, but too short. over too quickly.
I've always enjoyed Rex Stout's books, but generally prefer the full length novels to his several collections of three shorter works as this one is. Still a good quick read.
3 novellas. Each with clever and intricate plots.
Didn't realize this would be three short stories. But okay!
Would have given it four stars, as I always love the interaction between Wolf and Archie. But the second story had a coincidence that just was too unbelievable. A nice little set of stories.
Nero Wolfe at his complicated and genius best. Enjoy!
Three stories in one book.
I probably should give this 4 stars, but I am selfishly holding it back because I still have a lingering (14-year-old) uncertainty about the "Help Wanted, Male" and "Before I Die" episodes of the Hutton/Chaykin Nero Wolfe series, mainly because I missed them the first time around and only saw them later, so they felt "off" (and still sort of do, though now I've read them, perhaps they'll feel more like "real episodes" ...
"Help Wanted, Male" still feels weird, especially since I know now a lot of the "Archie's time in D.C." dialogue from the episode is all made up, and the entire coincidence of the plot, while it is feasible and as a hook for a Wolfe story is acceptable, makes it all a stretch.
***1/2.This is a collection of three short stories – almost novellas – by Stout, featuring Nero Wolfe.
The stories contained are:Before I Die: Dazy Perrit comes to Wolfe’s office with a problem.
It gets complicated.Help Wanted, Male: Nero Wolfe has to hire a double to take his place behind his desk after he is threatened by the mob.
A businessman comes to Wolfe claiming that he will be murdered by his business partner in the near future.
A different way of death that Wolfe has to explore to find the killer.
Wolfe likes to introduce rare words into many of his stories.
"Trouble in Triplicate" is the 14th book in Rex Stout's "Nero Wolfe" series.
Instead, it's a set of three short stories ("Before I Die," "Help Wanted, Male," and "Instead of Evidence" -- each only about 70 pages long).
The first story, "Before I Die," is the best of the lot and is worth 4 stars.
The second story, "Help Wanted, Male," is the worst of the lot and is only worth about 2 stars (inconceivable for a Rex Stout "Nero Wolfe" story).
So, averaging them out, I'd rate the book at an OK 3 stars out of 5.
