https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7381501-in-another-girl-s-shoes
It lacks the feminist undertones that attracted me to His Official Fiancee (characters say things like, "Who wants a woman to be clever, good god?") and the plot certainly feels like a more developed The Wrong Mr. Right, but you see, it was just that.
Unlike His Official Fiancee, which does everything but mention current events, this one squarely embraces the turmoil of the times.
A book that combines romance and depth with the turmoil of an era.
I enjoyed the time period (1916 England/France at war), and appreciated how realistic the author made the background.
Rose never started sounding like a person from the 21st century when thinking about the war they were fighting.
For example, it would have been easy for the author to make a trip past a German prisoner of war camp a chance to preach the "they were just like us!" message.
So often author's fall into a trap thinking that constant angst because of stupidity on the part of the characters is highly entertaining.
I also finished with friendly feelings for our main characters.
It was fast paced and funny . The main character was sweet and like able. I really liked the time period ww1. It was wonderfully romantic not your typical prince/ pauper switch. I would recommend this book to all who love a good romance story.
Sadly though I was disappointed in this 1918 novel.
After loving Berta Ruck's first book, His Official Fiancee, I was hoping this one would be as strong.
Unfortunately it used the same plot point of a woman having to be a 'fake' wife/fiancee to a man's family.
It worked the first time, but this time was far more heavy handed and it was obvious that the earlier novel was being used as a template.
At one point the lead male character says, "Who wants a woman to be clever, good god?".
This was a cute and pretty well-written story, if ever-so-slightly predictable at times.
The narrative style is curious in that it seems to start out with Rose telling the story of something that happened to her in the past and then switching to a journal style as if the adventure is ongoing, without ever exactly saying so.
I enjoyed the portrayal of WWI-era Paris, and the occasional passages relating to the war itself are touching and revealing of the feelings of the time.
Sometimes in romance novels the plot pivots around a lack of communication for rather stupid reasons. However, Berta Ruck makes this happen in quite a plausible fashion, albeit through some events that lean a bit to the fantastic. It all comes together in a cute charming romance involving a mix-up of identities during WWI.
Although it took awhile for me to figure out where this plot was going, and even then there were still some surprises in store. This was a delightful book, not your typical "prince/pauper" switch. It was a wonderfully romantic book, and I whole-heartedly recommend it! However, if you can read the e-book, which is from the original printing, it might be easier to read. The typos in this version were a little distracting at times. But other than that, I would read another of her books in a heart-beat. :)
Mis-understandings as major plot lines tend to frustrate me, I guess. I enjoyed the character development, description of daily life in a privileged family, and Rose's realistic, persistent desire to let the truth be known.
