https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85863.Nova
so much so that I couldn't tell if it was actual science or if it was Delany using science in a fantastical way.one of the things I often notice when reading science fiction from earlier eras is how much these authors can pack into such a short number of pages.
I think the only other science fiction I've read that had such heavy use was Piers Anthony's Tarot series.
I have to think on that a little bit, maybe do some research.one of the things I like about New Wave science fiction authors is just how literary they can get.
Many critics and reviewers have used the term “space opera” to label and describe Samuel Delaney’s imaginative Hugo nominated 1968 science fiction novel, and I think I will join those ranks.Wikipedia defines “space opera" as follows: Space opera is a sub genre of science fiction that often emphasizes romantic, often melodramatic adventure, set mainly or entirely in outer space, usually involving conflict between opponents possessing advanced abilities, weapons, and other technology.I call Nova a space opera because of the dramatic, chamber-like setting of a science fiction story.
There is also a detailed side-story about a young gypsy musician named Mouse, a windbag intellectual named Katin who wants to try the long-lost art of writing a novel, a drawn-out episode involving Tarot cards and how scientific they are, and a seemingly-aimless pit-stop on a planet that results in a major confrontation that ends inconclusively.
Unfortunately, it seems that Katin has had a greater influence on the story than Mouse, and I never trust a book where a character is writing a novel that doesn't yet have a subject.
It has all the classic tropes---an independently-owned starship, a motley crew, wild and vividly described planets, and at times nail-biting pacing---but it also steps back from itself to comment on what is happening in terms of history and myth, mostly via the character of Katin, a more or less aimless young man with an immense store of academic training and a finely-honed sense of process who has been taking notes for years on a novel he intends to write, which in this far flung time is a lost art.
Nothing in a Delany novel happens in isolation from all of history and myth.
But they have no idea of Lorq's secret obsession: to gather Illyrion at source by flying through the very heart of an imploding star."So you're like, 'Oh!
the physicochemical structure Illyrion is better understood if we conduct a thought experiment to consider the properties of a substance not yet available on the 21st century's periodic table of elements...'- pgs 220-240: 'Holy fuck: that van Ray guy's trying to gather Illyrion at source by flying through the very heart of an imploding star!'So you can see why I like it!
Delany has divided humanity into a tripartite society based loosely on constellation: Draco contains Earth and the richest planets in known space, and it's home to Red-shift Limited, the sole manufacturer of faster-than-light drives and company owned by Prince Red; the Pleidaes Federation is the home of operations for the rival Von Rays, and its other rich families are the "new money" to Draco's "old;" finally there are the Outer Colonies, whose only attraction are the Illyrion mines, and whose population consists mostly of working class people.
These are meant to broadcast the legitimacy of his imagined world and that, yes, he took care to note that language evolves with the times.
And sometimes it does feel like it is "whatever topic." The various subjects covered don't cohere all that well, even with the nova metaphor of a major self-collapse leaving something behind to salvage and re-build from.
So, truly, Nova is an unsuccessful balancing act between high-minded and unsuccessful ideas, and a broad-minded and unsuccessful plot-romance-template.
Nova is one of those times.
Ce m-a nemulțumit: cam puțin parcă a evoluat lumea din anul 1968, când a apărut cartea lui Samuel R.
Acuma, eu înțeleg că autorul nu a gândit-o ca pe un hard-SF doldora de speculații științifice despre ce va descoperi omenirea în 1200 de ani, dar să vină numai cu niște racorduri montate la încheieturile mâinilor pentru a se lega de diverse componente ale navelor spațiale pentru a le face mai ușor de pilotat și cu un instrument muzical năstrușnic, mi se pare totuși cam puțin.
Bizarre psychedelic jewel of novel that sometimes reads like prose poetry. Allusions to Bester, Holy Grail, Moby Dick, tarot, City of the Dreadful Night add to the enjoyment all with interesting thoughts on film and music, the future of the novel, humanity and technology, work and other weird thoughts.This book has an especially chilling finale alleviated by the humurous last line and an unsuspected conclusion. First Delaney I've made it through but maybe this will give the urge to tackle more(I failed my first attempts at Dhalgren and Einstein Intersection)
But novels by Delaney, Spinrad, Dick, LeGuin and many others seemed to develop their characters and setting and plots in the service of theme, developing and testing ideas, and extrapolating social changes from technological inventions or scientific discoveries.
So the prose is clear and simple, there is an emphasis on long changing relationships and fortunes of characters, and the page counts are massive, often stretching into a series of novels (trilogies?
He often described his love for work by authors who would challenge readers to put together hints and make inferences in order to make sense of this new creation.
wow-a very charismatic space captain somehow gets a crew to take on a near-suicide type mission that's both greed and vengeance oriented...and it is so believable you will think its possible to fly into a nova!I find it so awe-inspiring that Delany stuffed all this into a 200 page book, but there you are. The most content per word book ever!
Recenzia completă: http://bit.ly/2gw0k8c „Presupun că singura modalitate de a mă proteja de blesteme ar fi să abandonez cartea înainte de scrierea ultimului capitol.” În 1968, Samuel R. Delany publica romanul Nova. În 2017, eu mă plimbam cu un geamantan și cu o listă kilometrică la Bookfest, ușor amețită din pricina miilor de cărţi care îşi „scuturau” copertele când îmi surprindeau privirea, doar-doar aveam să le iau cu mine acasă. Îmi amintesc cum turnul de romane primit de la Grupul Editorial
Şi un grup de personaje cum nu mi-a mai fost dat să întâlnesc, fiinţe cu haruri neobişnuite, atrase într-un joc periculos, pe viaţă şi pe moarte, fără să fie obligate, constrânse sau ademenite de marele premiu.Nu cred că există un motiv întemeiat pentru care am evitat să citesc SF-uri, cel puţin în ultima perioadă, dar abia când am terminat de citit Nova mi-am dat seama cât de mult mi-a lipsit acest gen literar.
În plus, cum aş fi putut refuza un space opera cu misfits şi o cursă contra-cronometru pentru obţinerea celui mai preţios element din galaxie, illyrionul?

Wow! Nova is one of the greatest pieces of art that I've encountered in my life!
The story itself is very simple but I wish Delany would have expanded a little more on the characters.
Mouse, Katin and Von Ray are fleshed out pretty nicely, but the others we don't learn enough about - especially Ruby.
quite frankly, she's the most fascinating character in the novel, because she isn't given a perspective, and her motives/actions aren't clear.
Race relations, humans and their relationships with machines, politics, power, alienation (Katin, Mouse, and Von Ray are very strange men - loners and vagrants), and various others.
I wish the characters were a little deeper though, as I said before, but Delaney's wordplay and concepts make this a great novel.
Space miners!
Space ships!
Weird syntax!
Sadly, it's the weird syntax that stuck with me after reading this.Most of the action is set in the year 3172, in a universe where most of the galaxy is colonized by humans.
It gave us a lot of dialogue like: "I if his advisory meeting over is will see." The entire time I was reading I was wondering what kind of a culture puts its verbs last, and I'm disappointed in Delany for making this a prominent part of the book and making no move to explain it.
Illyrionul, substanța care permite deplasarea între diverse planete, e un produs greu de sintetizat artificial și foarte rar întâlnit în spațiu.
Mai avem două familii-corporații care luptă pentru supremație și pentru acest illyrion.
Multe povești, încercări de filosofie și antropologie, însă toate trimiterile relevante sunt făcute către o perioadă istorică de până la finalul anilor 2000, de parcă în următorii 1000 și ceva de ani nimic important nu s-a întâmplat.
Deranjant, iarăși, e prezentul romanului: civilizațiile, tehnica, cultura, totul pare prea puțin avansat pentru acel secol 32.
Într-adevăr, avem oameni cablați la calculatoarele navelor, însă puțin, foarte puțin.
Intriga e simplă, cu multe pauze în care ni se țin lecții despre istoria și cultura omenirii.
So, he’s, like, supergross--and yet still better than antagonist, who’s merely an Old Right aristocrat.An example of how alien interstellar society might appear: There was a thousand-year period from about fifteen hundred to twenty-five hundred, when people spent an incredible amount of time and energy keeping things clean.
Alter ego can therefore proclaim that the thesis that the Tarot was faked by gypsies is “a very romantic notion” (111): “the idea that all those symbols, filtered down through five thousand years of mythology, are basically meaningless and have no bearing on man’s mind and actions [NB: idealist collective subject as per similar juvenile ideas in Ayn Rand], strikes a little bell of nihilism ringing” (id.).
The ideas here are just as strong as Babel-17, they just need more unpacking--though there is a great deal of exposition upon the galactic arrangement of labor/power/politics/history, the critical lens is not as spelled out as in Babel-17, and so I think has lost fans over the need for them to bring their own discourses to the text in order to yield up and engage with the deeply ideological work that Delany is getting at in his compelling storytelling.
If you like Delany anywhere in his work (though there is no sex here) read this.
As for the grail story narrative that’s supposed to be there, well; knowing the grail story as well as I do (clue: very well, thanks to Cardiff University’s medieval lit tutors) it didn’t really feel like a grail story.
Moby Dick, perhaps; that’s a comparison that does feel apt.There are some gorgeous bits of prose and intriguing ideas, and I did want to read it all and find out how things turned out, but… it just didn’t blow me away.
Possibly the fault lies in me, since Delany is a classic SF writer; I’ve still got Babel-17 to read, and we’ll see if I like that better.Reviewed for The Bibliophibian.
Nova is a superb example of what the new wave accomplished in the genre however.
It's a story that on the surface connects with much of what has gone before in the genre.
If you look under the surface however, new ideas, elements and themes enter into the narrative.
Add to that Delany's distinct voice and you have a novel that is bound to attract attention.
It's easy to see how this novel became as influential as it did.
Nova is a novel everybody with an interest in classic science fiction should read.Full Random Comments review
I first read Nova when I was a teenager. I just decided to start reading it again, almost 40 years later. Unlike many "vintage" Sci-fi books, nothing feels dated; it reads as fresh and original as it did decades ago. I rated it "amazing" because it amazed me. To not have forgotten it after one read for 4 decades says it all.
Nova. O poveste în care o călătorie interstelară pornită pentru a găsi illyrion, singura substanță capabilă să genereze suficientă energie pentru a permite deplasarea navelor prin Univers, se transformă într-o căutare alegorică a Graalului. Printre instrumente muzicale senzoriale, cărți de Tarot, modele arhetipale, mituri, galaxii și stele care mor, se zăresc personaje neobișnuite și întâmplări luminate de puterea stelei care amenință să explodeze într-o novă.
it's astounding how time has changed this book. this is the last of Delany's early science fiction novels, and in a lot of ways it's as striking and intelligent as I remember.... though in others, I think it's transparent why he abandoned this kind of SF, and it's almost odd how apparent elements of the transition are in the book. but yeah: shouldn't say more for now. huge discussion piece on this book should be coming at Entropy within the next few months
I still believe that this may be Delany's best novel, his other (far) more acclaimed works notwithstanding. I've always been impressed with the number of levels it works on; as a space-opera, as a grail-quest, an an introduction to Tarot, as a character study using sf as an exploration of myth and/or the drug culture... Mouse rocks.
An interesting picture of an interstellar society, Samuel R Delaney's Nova has its moments.
At times, it is difficult to follow who is saying what; but it eventually comes together at the end.
Von Ray is attempting to sail his ship into a supernova to pick up a seven tons of a substance called Illyrion, only a few grams of which is enough to power a starship.At times, it is difficult to know whether Von Ray is the main character, or his two crewmen named Mouse and Katin.
Again it eventually makes sense.Not a bad read, but by no means a favorite.
I'm comparing it to The (nebulous) Canon.To best understand it, I recommend a previous (and close!) reading of Moby Dick - or at least familiarity with its archetypes and symbolism.
I thought the balance was good and allowed the characters and concepts to take center stage.Speaking of concepts, one character in particular is used by the author to relate some of the author's ideas quite directly.
Don't drop the book when Katin starts a speech!I give it 4/5 due to slow moments that did not advance either symbolism or plot and due to the ending.
I say "inevitable" often in this review.
It’s actually more ambitious than The Fall of the Towers, but, perhaps because of that, winds up not having as many interesting digressions or memorable characters.
In imagining a society 1000+ years in the future, Delany winds up creating some very interesting socio-technological conceptions.
I don’t know whether this novel was the first to suggest that in the future complex machines would be physically connected to human nervous systems, but it’s the earliest example I know of.
Katin is interested in writing a novel in a society that has forgotten what they are, and this gives Delany an opportunity to reflect out-loud on his own writing process, and also to end on a joke.
However, this was written in the 60's when science fiction authors tended to keep under 300 pages as opposed to the sense many authors today seem to have that they are required to write long series of door-stopping tomes.In addition to space opera shenanigans, Delany gives us a lot to think about in terms of human modification (most humans have cyborg implants), race (the world of Nova is diverse, which is important in science fiction: http://examinedworlds.blogspot.com/20...), alienation, and the scope of history.
(I've written more about Delany's future history in my blog: http://examinedworlds.blogspot.com/20...).Also, the Wikipedia entry for this novel is helpful: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nova_(no...
O space opera care se întinde peste galaxii, ale cărei personaje sunt surprinzător de excentrice pentru o lume în care călătoria pe distanțe (extrem!) de mari e la fel de comună ca naveta între București și Constanța.Ar putea să fie un exemplu perfect de hard sci-fi.
E o carte care pare simplă și pe alocuri puerilă, dar e de fapt extrem de complicată.Inițial, ești destul de sigur că romanul va fi povestea unei călătorii periculoase și aproape nemaiîncercate: căpitanul Lorq Von Ray, eroul nostru, își adună, în mod surprinzător de aleatoriu, un echipaj colorat împreună cu care urmează să încerce să treacă drept prin miezul unei nove.
