https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14498.Neil_Gaiman_s_Neverwhere
I enjoyed seeing this depicted graphically.
I thought it was an excellent story.
It was interesting to see the pictures represented.
What I like about graphic novelizations of actual novels is that you can read them so much more quickly and remember the story well.
They did a good job with everything in this story.
It's a very creative story and world and I am interested in reading the sequel he is putting out to this.
I bet they do another graphic novel.
I thought this was good and anyone who read the book might enjoy the novel.
It is interesting.
When Richard Mayhew becomes invisible to all his friends and work colleagues, he turns to a parallel world, London Below, full of wacky characters and unspeakable horrors, where he is still trying to help his damzel in distress - a highborn lady of the underworld with a talent for opening doors.Either because I was too familiar with the subject, or because the graphic art format is too limited to capture all the nuances of Gaiman's writing, I was not as enchanted this time as on the first trip to Neverwhere.
Ahhhhhhhhhh...This graphic novel adaptation of the wonderful world of London Below is beautifully captured.
I wouldn't go as far as to say the illustrations are pretty but they are magnificently drawn - especially the Marquis de Carabas, Door, Hunter (who was exactly how I imagined her) and Islington, and perfectly captured the essence of London Below.
*shudders* Richard was loveable (as always) and his fiance Jessica was still the haughty nightmare we met in the original novel.
If you loved the novel, I would guess you would love this adaptation too.
It now sits beside Gaiman's novel on my ridiculously crowded shelves but I shall treasure it always.
While I have not had the chance to read the original story I now know that I must because this was a great story and is just way too short. I want so much more. More amazing art, characters and storytelling from two masters of the art. I really don't think that I have anything bad to say about this other than it was way too short. ilu eh
A decent enough adaptation, but very bare bones. Is missing some of my favorite little lines and bits, and lacks Gaiman's prose and descriptions, which really adds a lot.I also thought the interpretation of a lot of the characters was, well, odd and didn't suit the descriptions from the book very well and I didn't like some of the changes that were made.If you just want a general outline of the plot and characters then this is ok - but if you really want to experience the story then you should really read the original book.
I love Gaiman's book Neverwhere and I've enjoyed Mike Carey's books so I thought this would be a slam dunk of a graphic novel.
The biggest problem for me is that the Marquis of Carabas looks like someone in black face.
His skin is flat black, with full red lips and stark white eyes.
He just looks like a old fashioned dandy wearing black face.
The TV version the Marquis played by a black actor.
The novelization describes him as having very dark skin.
However the comic decided BLACK FACE IS GREAT.
She does wear flat heeled boots at least.
Even though there were some scenes from the book that I wished were in it, there were also a lot of new scenes that weren't in the book, that I really liked.Above all, great adaptation of an amazing book.
Je to vizualne moc povedene, desne me bavilo se tim procitat uz z potechy oka. Dej pro me nebyl novy, jelikoz Nikdykde je moje top kniha a cetl jsem ji asi 100x. Patricne zde je jasne zjednoduseni a i mensi vychylky oproti knize. Prectete to za dve cesty metrem, ma to peknou tvrdou vazbu, ale musite si zvyknout na ten styl kresby, pak budete spokojeni :) PS: a super je psany uvod o neznamem Gaimanovi od Careye :-D
Colourful, dense, character heavy, very nice artwork. I haven't read the novel yet, but listened to the BBC audio dramatization. I liked it, but it didn't really grab my attention. I am not sure if that was just me, because I knew the plot, or if it truly lacked suspense.
then read the graphic novel as wellIn short, "Neverwhere" started as a mini-radio series in the english radio, it went on as a mini tv-series, it became a book, then a graphic novel, then again it was transfered on the radio.
It takes place in the deep sewages of London, that are inhabited by outcasts and various magical beings.
If you think you are too old or too busy to read the whole novel, try this graphic novel: it has pictures!!!!!!!
(which are also magical).
It reminded me of the Sandman (the most famous graphic novel by Gaiman, before the graphic novels existed as a genre)
I don't know Neil, but I'm pretty sure that when he refers to the Marquis of Carabas in the text of Neverwhere as being "very dark", he was probably being subtle in referring to the skin colour of Paterson Joseph, the actor who originally played the Marquis...not indicating that the Marquis is a sinister blackface minstrel.That's about all I have to say regarding this.
Apart from that, pretty much everything else in it is so mediocre as to be a waste of paper.
When you can't even just *copy* someone's else's work without reducing the quality, you're probably in the wrong business.
Probably the biggest con of the graphic novel was that the characters looked nothing like I imagined them when reading the novel.
Although I think I liked the novel better, nothing can replace Gaiman's remarkable skill with prose and expressions, I see this graphic novel as a fresh new look on the beloved (to me) book.
He remarked that it was like seeing a movie based off a book, you don't expect the movie to be on par with the book (in fact it is generally much worse) but you want to compare the visions of the movie to the visions you had while reading the book.
Awful, awful artistic interpretations of the characters from the television mini-series. AWFUL. Especially the decision to make the Marquis a Gollywog (look it up, Americans), which i found profoundly offensive and unnecessary. I was excited when I heard about this project, because I adored the mini-series (which was a collaboration between comedian Lenny Henry and Neil Gaiman) and really liked Neil Gaiman's novelization of the show. This graphic novel interpretation is just terrible however, and I cannot recommend it to anyone.
Love the concept of a world within out world or is our world within another? Not a bad read, but this graphic novel version felt a little like something was left out, which most likely was the case sense it was adopted from a prose novel.
Y este no lo guioniza él, pero hay que ver lo bien que le sienta el formato a sus ideas.
Mike Carey adapta la novela a cómic de forma sencilla pero efectiva, es cierto que no se complica, que no aporta nada nuevo, más bien sacrifica personajes ye elimina tramas, pero siempre en favor del formato aunque también en detrimento de la calidad del mensaje social que se palpa en la novela.
No veo mal leer este cómic por separado, pero tampoco le encuentro mucho sentido.
3.5 ⭐⭐⭐Great illustrations. Plot was alright. Nothing out of the ordinary.
It was ok. If you loved the novel, then you will probably want to read this.
I haven't seen the television show, read the novelization, or heard the radio dramatization.
I had no intention of reading the graphic novel either except I was babbling about something at home and something I said inspired my boyfriend to say "YOU HAVE TO READ THIS".
Richard Mayhew is this sad sap whose life is boring beyond comprehension, but that hardly makes a story, so of course some stuff happened and he winds up in the underworld with a young woman named Door.I want to be Door for Halloween someday.All in all, this is a fun read.
Prilično loša adaptacija, ne toliko što se tiče samog scenarija koji je nekih 80% veran originalnoj Gejmanovoj priči, već moje zamerke idu na račun samog crteža.
Crtež je loš, likovi su ružnjikavi, pozadine su prazne i monotone.
Preovlađuju nijanse nebesko-plave boje što direktno utiče na građenje atmosfere koja je mahom odsutna.
Promene u samoj priči su primetnije od polovine stripa ka kraju, a stičem i utisak da je zbrzan u tom delu.
Nije se mnogo radilo na karakterizaciji samih likova, koji su od početka do kraja plitki, bez duše.Preporučujem čitanje originalne Gejmanove novele, ali ovu adaptaciju ne preporučujem.
Una aventura con sabor a Gaiman. Me maravilló el submundo de Londres y especialmente la abridora de puertas. Imaginación, locura y continuos guiños con otras obras de fantasía. Leí el cómic porque la novela está en inglés pero sin duda me aventuraré algún día a leer la madre del cordero.
I enjoyed walking through the world below, very well done and very well illustrated, the characters are deep and enjoyable.
(hide spoiler)]Still a great book and great characters, definitely a recommended read!
This great story gives me another push in that direction.‘Neverwhere’ stars the mousy Richard Mayhew, pushed around by his domineering fiancée and his co-workers, who finds some gumption when he encounters the aptly named Door, a super-heroine type, sexy in looks but not in practice.
She opens a portal into London Below, an alternate, fantastical version of the metropolis, and a quest that changes Mayhew into a daredevil.Along the way, Door and Mayhew run into some distinctly unusual characters, strikingly lined out and vibrantly colored in by Fabry.
If you like fantasy in comic book form, ‘Neverwhere’ fits the bill.
Graphic novel based on the Neil Gaiman book.
Richard lives a humdrum existence in modern day London with a boring job and domineering girlfriend.
When he decides to help a seemingly helpless and injured lady in an alley, his world is (literally) turned upside down as he discovers a supernatural side to the city and a brave, heroic side to himself.
Quirky, funny, engaging storytelling and writing with a twist in the tale.
I'm keen to read the books and watch the TV series.
Very accessible, I'd recommend for Neil Gaiman fans or newbies (like myself).

Mike Careyn ja Glenn Fabryn sarjakuvasovitus Neil Gaimanin romaanista Neverwhere - maanalainen Lontoo ei näin toisella lukukerralla tehnyt kovin suurta vaikutusta. Minisarjaksi pelkistäminen ei ole tehnyt tarinalle kovin hyvää, vaan se olisi kaivannut enemmän lihaa luurangon ympärille. Taide on kyllä ihan mukavaa.
First off this is the same guy who wrote "The Girl with All he Gifts"....well the graphic novel of Gaiman's book. I had seen the tv series of this and hated it. I was hoping that since I bought and own the paperback novel that I would like this version. Nope. I still hate this story and now I don't think I'll read the paperback.  The underworld is just too weird and not even a good kinda weird. A dumb fairy tale type of urban fantasy that I wish to never revisit.
This is an amazing graphic novel adaptation of Neil Gaiman's novel Neverwhere, which is one of my favourite works of his, so I really enjoyed finally getting to read this one. I would definitely recommend it if you enjoy graphic novel adaptations of your favourite novels, because this one is really well done.
I chanced upon a copy of this book but in issue form today.Gaiman brings us yet another fascinating story, in the fantasy genre. A world that exists alongside ours (Neverwhere) but that we (the normal public) are unaware that it exists. The illustrations in these issues are amazing, they really bring the characters to life. I definitely recommend you check these out if you can.
I found it really confusing at first and a bit hard to get into, but I must say I liked the ending. And I was really tired when I read the first chapters so I missed some things, but like I said it all came together and I liked the ending. I really want to read the novel now.
A strange story with a peculiar sense of romance and of duty, and a hero who's not a hero at all, and yet, at the end of the day, he really is one... What did I think...? Neil Gaiman at his very best!!
