https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/870160.Zen_Flesh_Zen_Bones
It's one of my all time favorites. I have read and re-read this book countless times. And I absolutely loved it every time I read! Zen Flesh and Zen Bones is a compilation of zen koans, and stories. A Koan is a paradoxical anecdote or riddle without a solution, used in Zen Buddhism to demonstrate the inadequacy of logical reasoning; and provoke enlightenment.  What is the sound of clap by one hand? From a rational or intellectual perspective, it’s not easy to make sense of such a puzzle. Some pe
But practitioners of Zen would say trying to answer this question from an intellectual perspective would completely miss the point of this Zen koan.
101 Zen stories, transcribed by Nyogen, Senzaki, and Paul Reps: Its a miscellaneous collection of stories, parables, small statements.2).
The Gateless Gate by Mumon, transcribed by Nyogen, Senzaki, and Paul Reps: Is a collection of 48 Zen koans compiled in the early 13th century by the Chinese Zen master Mumon.
10 Bulls by Kakuan, transcribed by Nyogen, Senzaki, and Paul Reps: Is a series of short poems and accompanying pictures used to illustrate the stages of a practitioner's progression towards the purification of the mind and satori (enlightenment).The 10 Bulls depict a journey, the goal of which is enlightenment.
Therefore, I’m just going to list a couple of my favourite Zen kōans from the 101 Zen Stories, and then try to explain how they affect the way in which I attempt to live my life.The Moon Cannot be StolenRyokan, a Zen Master, lived the simplest kind of life in a little hut at the foot of a mountain.
One evening a thief visited the hut only to discover there was nothing in it to steal.Ryokan returned and caught him.
‘You may have come a long way to visit me,’ he told the prowler, ‘and you should not return empty handed.
Zen is allusive.Zen uses too many unnecessary contradictions.But their hopes are that such techniques awake the deluded mind.Nonetheless, I think people just get heady about the writings and forget how simple buddhist psychology is. Thus they get intellectual and cute and use that as another blanket of self-deception.This has lots of fun stories, but it is not the Buddhism I am most fond of.I must say I have been tempted by such trips though.
"My review/What I learned from this book?"I think the most appropriate answer would be "nothing".I think it's on my shelf if you want it.
One of my all time favorites. Every copy I own is well worn. I love how the stories don't state anything, but leave it up to you to interpret. The moon can not be stolen and A Parable are two of my favorites.http://books.google.com/books?id=m9CC...
One of the most influential books in my life. A treasure if you read it at the right time.
از چاپ دوم به بعد عنوان جدید انتخاب شده است.
کتاب مجموعه 112 داستان کوتاهی است که به استادان و رهروان مکتب ذن نسبت داده شده است.
قسمت هائی از این داستانها برای اولین بار در قرن سیزدهم میلادی در ژاپن منتشر شده است.
جهت آشنایی با مفاهیم مطرح شده در کتاب، اولین داستان آن را نقل می کنم یک فنجان چاینان ئین، استاد ژاپنی مکتب ذن، یک استاد دانشگاه را که برای تحقیق و پژوهش درباره ذن به آن کشور رفته بود به حضور پذیرفت نان ئین برای او چای ریخت ولی حتی وقتی هم که فنجان پر شد، به ریختن چای ادامه داداستاد دانشگاه که ناظر لبریز شدن فنجان بود طاقت نیاورد و گفت: فنجان که پر شده، دیگر جا نداردنان ئین پاسخ داد: شما نیز چون این فنجان لبریز از عقاید و افکار خود هستیدمادام که فنجان فکرتان را خالی نکرده اید، من چگونه می توانم ذن را به شما نشان دهم؟؟
really enjoyable koans that open your mind.My favorite is Temper; I have transcribed it below, sorry for any mistakes:A Zen student came to Bankei and complained: "Master, I havean ungovernable temper.
How can I cure it?""You have something very strange," replied Bankei.
"Let me seewhat you have.""Just now I cannot show it to you," replied the other."When can you show it to me?" asked Bankei."It arises unexpectedly," replied the student."Then," concluded Bankei, "it must not be your own true nature.If it were, you could show it to me at any time.
When you wereborn you did not have it, and your parents did not give it to you.Think that over."
This was a strange one. I found the Zen tales at times amazing - one sent shivers down my spine and utterly stopped my mind. The rest of the time I was puzzled, bemused and oddly infuriated!I loved the Kashmiri Shaivism text at the end - beautiful, concise, a lifetime's worth of wisdom teachings :)
This was a great collection of Zen writings, which may or may not enlighten you on the subject. It did contain classic Zen stories and koans, and I really enjoyed reading it.
I like it so far..., but I'm not to attached to it.
People in these stories are so human and you are amazed by their depth of character, their charm, their sense of humor, their gracious and big-heart attitude.
Thankfully the book can be browsed online on:https://terebess.hu/zen/101ZenStones.pdfFirst story is so beautiful as it discusses those who come asking you a question only to use you as a sound board and in reality they don't want to hear anything else.
I also love the story of that nun who challenged that swooned monk to act on his love if he truly loved her indeed.
She challenged, 'If you really love me so much, come and embrace me now.’
I remember being quite inspired by this book, but details are sketchy. I'll have to give it a re-read, at some point.
„Плътта на Дзен. Костите на Дзен“ е уникална по своята същност книга. Тя е съкровище, едно такова тъничко и дребничко, че без проблем можеш да я побереш в джоба си. Съдържанието и обаче далеч не е толкова лесно за побиране в човешкия ум. То е отвъд всякакви логически и разумни обяснения, с които човекът е свикнал да обяснява света около и в себе си.Книгата съдържа 4 книги на възраст над 4000 хиляди години. Пол Репс е успял да събере и поднесе на света неуловимата есенция на Дзен:- 101 дзен истор
Всички погледи се насочили към първия ученик, който се смятал за най-мъдър.-Излизане от границите на ума, в това се състои твоето учение.Бодхидхарма казал:-Ти се докосна само до кожата на моето учение, не повече.Обърнал се въпросително към втория си ученик.-Не съществува човек, който би могъл да излезе от границите на ума – отговорил ученикът.
Ето това е същността на учението ти.Ти докосна костите на моето учение – казал Бодхидхарма и насочил поглед към третия ученик.-Същността на твоето учение е неизразима.Бодхидхарма се засмял и рекъл:-Ти я изрази и каза нещо за нея.
It reads like Monty Python you're meant to take seriously.
"Here, read this ancient Japanese parable.
Okay, now, in order to understand this, I'm going to have to explain all of Buddhism and some ancient Chinese and Japanese history."Nope.
Yes, this stuff has its value, but if you want to learn about zen and buddhism, this book isn't going to do it.It starts off as a light, enjoyable read.
And then I just couldn't keep reading.
I gave up at around the BULL section, where each short section has an explanation following it."What is zen?" is a section at the very back of the book.
Master Okama shows his student a walking stick. -Master: What is this? -Student: A walking stick?Master Okama cuts off the student's hand. -Master: Go away and darken my towels no more.Commentary: There is no stick. There is no hand. Whoever sees this clearly will play golf with Buddha today in The 34th Heaven.
Either it's the simplicity or my immaturity ....some of the stories resonated but others just flew by still i haven't internalized but i will give time for the seed to mature !!
If you want to dive into actual stories of Zen masters, to understand what they think, what their experience is, you'll read this one more than once.
This book has in one way or another whispered itself into American culture with its Zen stories and pithy teachings.
Another classical story from this collection is of the two monks walking down a path and one helps a lady.
After a while the other monk asked the first why he touched the pretty lady, and the first monk replies, I left the girl back there, "are you still carrying her?" (34).
To me this is an amazing teaching as it helps us see how we hold onto things.
You do not need to be a Buddhist for this book to work its magic on you.
Here is how I use this book:Every morning, before I even get dressed, I light a stick of Japanese incense and read a single koan.
I sit and meditate on that koan for some period of time (often only 5 minutes), and then I go about my day.
But, I try to remember that koan, and I think about it all day.
I try to find ways that this day's koan is manifest in my life.I have read this book 3 times.
A collection of classic short pieces on Zen – often no more than a paragraph or two – which offer a good insight into the enigmatic nature of Zen writing.
The classic ‘10 Bulls’ is also featured – an illustrated account of a bull-hunt that symbolises the ascending stages of awareness – as is a translation of an ancient Sanskrit text in which Shiva offers 112 ways to open the invisible door of consciousness.The book ends with the question: ‘What is Zen?
In one answer, a fish goes to a queen fish and asks ‘I have always heard about the sea, but what is this sea?
Just as the subtitle says, this book is divided into four parts, each expressing Zen Buddhist writing in a different format.
I have read a fair amount of writing on or about Zen, and this is probably the only book I would strongly recommend to everyone interested.
The only other book on this caliber would be The Zen Monastic Experience, but that was not about Zen literature but Zen monks' lifestyle and practice.
One of my former coworkers gave this to me as a going away gift, saying it changed his life when he first read it decades ago.
Sometimes less is more.This collection of stories, koans, and teachings provides a glimpse of Zen to English readers without adornment. Elegant and confounding in its simplicity, this book shares the experiences of Zen, stages of awareness, and mind puzzles to prompt awareness beyond words. The editors have wisely refrained from attempting to draw universal conclusions providing their insights or personal directives. The book is a treasure. It's only 224 pages long but provides material for a lifetime.
I am not a student of Zen, but I enjoyed this collection. I recently took it on a bike tour with my partner, and we read from the 101 Zen Stories and The Gateless Gate together in the evenings. What we read left us both in a state of wonder and curiosity - and sometimes laughter and puzzlement. There aren't any interpretations in this book. No philosophical musings, no preaching or teaching. There are stories of book burnings, cat heads, irritable nuns, clueless intellectuals, and stingy artists. You might like it.
Not that Zen fits in a book, but this is the best work I've ever found on the subject. The hardcover, boxed-set presentation seems a bit much for me, but maybe that's just because I still remember the battered old paperback edition I carted around everywhere until some long-ago girlfriend 'borrowed' it. There was something lovely and humble about that paperback, more fitting with the book's parables and lessons.
Great bathroom reading for those times you want to contemplate lessons of the mind and right living. It is arranged in tiny vignettes and dialogues. The book is densely packed with insight. Many of the little stories will be familiar such as "The Muddy Road" (I put her down on the road, why are you still carrying her.), "A Cup of Tea" (You can't fill a cup that is already full.) "Trading Dialogue for Lodging" (gestalt of meaning / distorted perception)Highly recommended.
Jotkut tarinat avautuivat paremmin, toiset huonommin. Joka tapauksessa ne herättivät paljon ajatuksia ja ruokkivat todennäköisesti enemmän alitajuntaa. Hieno kirja ja ehdottoman viihdyttävä. Kyllä silloin ennenkin tarinoita osattiin kirjoittaa.
I have a small pocket version of this text. It is one of the few books that I read over and over again. I love the simple wisdom and the stories that make life so much more clear. I love the sayings that don't make any sense or those that do but only if I don't concentrate very hard.
I read half of this 10 years ago. I gave it away as a gift to a stranger who came into the bar I worked at who i found out had cancer and who I later found out had given her copy to a friend in need.
Included are two of my favorites, (1) that of Tanzan and Ekido, the former a monk who carried a pretty girl across a muddy road and his monastic friend who could not let go of her in his mind; and (2) the parable attributed to the Buddha about a man hanging over a cliff holding onto a vine being gnawed on by two mice (one black and one white--yin and yang, perhaps), with a tiger above and another below, and a luscious strawberry.
