https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70489.There_s_Treasure_Everywhere
I always wonder how Calvin can think of such insanely intense stuffs sometimes.
Or Bill wanted him to think that way...
If I compare my childhood with Calvin’s, I think I had an awfully boring childhood accepting what I was told, doing what I was asked, and asking what was expected of me.
He is a six-year old, after all!Sometimes, all the psychobabble Calvin utters, when he complains of the society for killing the creativity in the name of mass production or school education, might seem way too matured for a child of his age, but not always can they be ignored.
I was planing on reading just few pages to improve my foul mood but I ended reading 2 volumes in one sitting.Moral of the story: You can't have "just a little" of Calvin and Hobbes.
I thought that strip was very apropos for a goodreads review. And, being that it is a goodreads review I thought it wise to both thank Andrews and McMeel books as well as publish this photo from page 4 of the book:  Thank you, Andrews and McMeel for granting that permission. I'll try my best to honor the integrity laid forth by Watterson.I should start by saying I was banned from reading Calvin and Hobbes for a number of months when I was in 8th grade. Looking back on this, I'm not sure if the
Looking back on this, I'm not sure if the ban was enforced - or if my dad said something like, "If you keep this up, I'm going to have to ban those books." You see, he was a big fan as well, but I was emulating a few too many of Calvins behaviors.My dad taught at the junior high school I attended, so when the Science teacher walked down to his room and informed him I had marked that it was, "against my religion" to explain Ohm's Law on the unit test my dad wasn't too pleased.
"Congratulations guys, I'm one of you life's greatest accomplishments" is a paraphrase of a quote Calvin told his parents.There's no denying that Watterson is a genius.
He knows we're the happy ignoramuses waiting to be fed by more of his bursts of brilliance.
These comics, guys. You gotta read them.
IT'S SO BEAUTIFUL !
I mentioned before that I love Calvin's imagination and it reminds me of my own childhood (though I never had an imaginary friend IE stuffed friend who occasionally threatened to eat me..) Also, just an aside, I love Calvin's snowmen/snow sculptures.
Is there a category called 'huggable books'? If yes, this book deserves to be one.
I can't see Calvin growing up. And if I have to, I can only imagine him to be a comic writer or snow sculptor.
The way this strip is most obviously different then all others is the way Watterson uses his comic strip to express, and criticize, moral issues and human nature while still retaining an impeccable sense of raw comedy, with several strips that are just plain silly.Whether Calvin and Hobbes are blasting off on another interplanetary adventure or approaching warp speed on a downhill wagon ride, their capers are repartee consistently charm the readers.
On his own, Calvin is prey to the insidious killer bicycle, is the arbiter of the dad poll, is the creator of a legion of snowmen who provide an incisive social commentary, and Hobbes is always there as the perfect companion.
Book Details: Title There's Treasure Everywhere (Calvin and Hobbes)Author Bill Watterson Reviewed By Purplycookie
There is a number of shticks I associate with Calvin and Hobbes--Spaceman Spiff, meetings of G.R.O.S.S., conflicts with Roslyn the babysitter--but it wasn't until I started rereading the strips in order did I appreciate how the strip developed and changed over the years.
One thing that surprised me was that the shtick of Calvin's unique snowman creations developed rather late in the series.
There have been a few strips here and there in the past collections, but in There's Treasure Everywhere, Calvin's unique snow artistry really bursts out in all it's glory.
'anymore, simply acknowledging the issue is a moral victory.' 'well, it just seemed wrong to cheat on an ethics test.' there are /so/ many comic strips with 'older' humor in them that i definitely did not understand when i was about ten years old and first reading them. it's always fun going back and finding little...easter eggs, you could say, when reading things from your past. c&h ilu forever. ♥
IT'S THE BEST CALVIN AND HOBBES COMIC BOOK EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
- Your denial of my victimhood is lowering my self-esteem!- And people wonder why cats are solitary.- "I no longer wish to be called 'a boy.'""Isn't that what you are?""Yes, but I find that term demeaning and sexist.""What do you want to be called then?""A 'chromosomally advantaged youth.'""That may not catch on."
I must have read this book a few times, but it continues to surprise me. Because every time I pick up this compilation, I discover some new hidden gems this one," A day can really slip by when you're deliberately avoiding what you're supposed to do." There couldn't have been a better title to this compilation, and arguably, there couldn't have been a better way to start a new year.
This book is full of snowmen! Not exactly snowmen of course, but suicidal snowman with hot-water bottle, snow monster, snow UFO, snow shark, and incomputable snowballs... Poor Susie...There is also lots of philosophizing about life and the world, and lots of battles with the parents, the dinner and the homework.
I love Calvin and Hobbes. I miss reading them in the paper. I also love how simple the cartoon is drawn. This cartoon is somewhat why I became a graphic designer.
Wonderful as always! Calvin and Hobbes never fail to cheer me up 🙌🏼
Why is it that whenever I'm feeling a little low, all I have to do is pull one of the Calvin & Hobbes books from the shelf and give it a good re-read to perk me up.
I've many other "funny-books", but these are the ones that bring me most joy.Then, a little after I am done, I start re-realizing that Watterson will probably never do any more, then I get sad again.I'm very grateful for what I have...
and I'll re-read them as many times as I need...
I just wish there were more.OK, now I'm feeling sad again, guess it's time to pull another one of the shelf.
As always, master cartoonist Bill Watterson cuts to the heart of the deepest philosophical issues--existential meaning, life, love, and purpose--in the guise of the hilarious childhood adventures of Calvin and Hobbes. This volume in particular, with an emphasis on Calvin in his snowy days of "artistic expression", seemed particularly poignant in its quiet appreciation of what matters and subtle critiques of what doesn't, while remaining laugh out loud delightful throughout.So far, my favorite Calvin and Hobbes collection.
The next to last collection of comic strips from Calvin and Hobbes features the nine month break creator Bill Watterson took. There aren't as many stories, although the familiar themes are still present. And the laughs for fans new and old are just as strong as they were 20 years ago.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
I've been re-reading a bunch of the comics I enjoyed when I was younger. Calvin & Hobbes is the only comic that still moves me. Watterson's strips are a wonderful blend of humor, whimsy, imagination, and quiet thoughts about life, the universe and everything. You'll never look at snowmen the same way again!
I liked this book because it had very funny comics. It is funny how Calvin digs for dinosaur bones, finds a bunch of trash and creates an odd figure with his tiger, Hobbes. Then Calvin and Hobbes plan to sell it to a museum for a billion dollars. But when they show it to Calvin's mom, Calvin's mom says it is just a bunch of trash.
Calvin and Hobbes books are great fun and really witty humor! A childhood staple comic book for me, but even now I go back and read them and understand the humor on a different level (now that I know the meanings of some of the words!). Great books.
My review for all Calvin and Hobbes books is this:When you need to relax and laugh, this is a great place to go. Watterson is insightful, hilarious, and very, very funny. Highly recommended. I grew up on C&H, and I'm very glad I did.
Just got this book for Father's Day in 2010. Although it's been out for a long time, it's still great for a few good laughs, chuckles, and smiles. Gotta love Calvin & Hobbes to take the edge off of life!
This is a great book. No doubt about it. The character and stories are fantastic. Calvin is the best mix of young adolecense and thoughtful philosopher. Add in his persistant optimism, and you have book that will make you laugh, cry, and think.
Bill Waterson is a philosophical and comic genius! My insides could have burst! My absolute favorite parts are Calvin's snow creations! What animation! I never tire of reading Calvin & Hobbes! Pure pleasure!
I absolutely love Calvin and Hobbes. This is one of the best comic strips ever written. Calvin and Hobbes will make you laugh every time.
I love Calvin and Hobbs. Child like innocence with an edge of darkness. Perfect
Best snowman builder ever....
