https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122447.Asterix_and_Son
A Mysterious Package16 November 2018 Actually, this one turned out to be much more amusing than I originally expected. I guess it may have had something to do with me not really expecting all that much from the Asterix albums of late that I ended up quite enjoying this one. In fact this was rather amusing, namely because one morning Asterix wakes up to find a baby on his doorstep, and not surprisingly Obelix has this strange idea that the stork misdelivered it. It turns out that nobody got aroun
Well, considering that Asterix is young, male, and unmarried, having a random child appear on his doorstep, and later down the track a random woman appear claiming to be a nursemaid (despite the fact that she happens to have a male Roman accent when she gets upset, something that people find odd, but not suspicious, but then again this little village that we know so well does have a air of innocence, and stupidity, about it) does raise some questions.
As can be expected everything is explained in the end, but I won’t say anything further, so as not to spoil the story.
Asterix and Son (Astérix #27), Albert Uderzo
Stronger than Asterix and the Secret Weapon, Asterix and the Magic Carpet, and Asterix and Obelix All at Sea. But let's be honest. That's not saying much. Uderzo sans Goscinny continues to underwhelm. If you like jokes flatter than old Schlitz, have at this one. Otherwise, leave the Uderzo-only installments to poor stubborn saps like me.
A mysterious baby has been left at Asterix's doorstep, and the hero duo now needs to take care of him while trying to solve the mystery of his identity. The difficulty level goes over 9,000 after the baby ingests some of the Gauls' magic potion. Meanwhile, the ever greedy Brutus is seeking the baby for his own reasons...This is one of the weakest issues of Asterix. The jokes are on the stale side, lacking impact simply due to the fact they've been made a thousand times already. However, the issue still makes for a rather entertaining read.
This book was rather nice,I liked the fact That ceaser's son fell in the pot of magic potion sad for ceaser it was not much potion to Be enough to be never lasting effect like obelix.I never new that ceaser has made peace with the Gauls from before or mabye just this time. I enjoyed the book much.
the book was really interesting because of the setting.it was set in 50bc and the houses are really cool because they made it look like the houses now days just made out of straw and all the weapons are very roman like and all there tools that they use are just like now days like the hammer was invented ages ago.
J'ai peu à dire de cette aventure à part que je l'ai trouvé ennuyante. Je n'ai pas beaucoup rit des blagues facile de cette bande dessinée. L'humour est beaucoup trop facile dans ce tome. Si les histoires d'avant la mort de René Goscinny étaient pour tous, celle d'Uderzo en solo sont seulement pour les enfants. Les histoires sont de moins en moins bonnes.
AWESOME!!! There is nothing that comes close to Asterix - I have the whole series, both on e-books and hard-copy and they are some of most treasured possessions. I grew up with them and they are simply the best!
A me la "balia" che canta solo canzoni militari m'ha fatto scompisciare
A village that not surrender to the Romans rebuilt by the Romans? C'mon!!!!!!!
A baby is left in front of Asterix's hut and nobody knows how it got there. Of course, the Romans are after it and it gets its little hands on some magic potion.This one relies on puns and stereotypes for humor.
Nyt vaikuttaisi että taso alkaa tippua, kun Uderzo tekee yksin. Ei tässä mitään erityistä vikaa ollut, lopussa jopa mukava twistikin, mutta jos 30-40 sivua johdatellaan enemmän tai vähemmän turhasti siihen, ei kokonaisuus toimi.
A bit predictable and lots of old jokes but still fun to read
Een van de mooiste stripreeksen die er zijn.
Le Fils d'Astérix - Albert UderzoRating: ★★★Review coming soon!
Så langt det beste av soloalbuma til Uderzo iallfall.
Asterix! A Dad!
not much fun and really bizarre storyline leading to one of the weaker adventures for Asterix and Obelix.
Komik ini menceritakan tentang bayi yang diletakkan di depan rumah Asterix. Parahnya lagi, bayi ini meminum jamu manjur (overdosis) dan menjadi kuat selama berhari-hari.Seperti biasa, komik ini sangat menghibur dan menyegarkan, banyak dialog 'cerdas', seperti:Asterix: "Apakah kita bisa berenang mengejar pasukan Romawi itu?"Obelix: "Kadang-kadang kau bertanya hal yang aneh-aneh ya..."Asterix: "Maaf, bukan maksudku ..." (Asterix mengira bahwa kata-katanya telah menyinggung perasaan Obeliks yang berbadan besar dan tidak bisa berenang)Obelix: "Tentu saja kita bisa!!!"Dan akhirnya Obelix pun berenang gaya punggung dengan Asterix dan Idefix di perutnya... Hahahahahahaha!!! Lucu banget...
Il nostro amico gallo, insieme con il fido Obelix, dovrà indagare su chi siano i genitori mentre del latte corretto con un po' di pozione magica darà al bebè una...marcia in più!Divertentissimo albo in cui Uderzo mette Asterix e Obelix per la prima volta nei panni dei padri.
Cercheranno di cavarsela meglio che possono, ma mostreranno ovviamente tutti i loro limiti.
Da notare che il classico banchetto finale non si svolgerà al villaggio.
Non dico di più per non fare spoiler.Degna di nota la gag dei sonagli del piccolo: non avvicinatevi o vi strapazzerà ben bene!
I saw the book when I was attending University test on 1991.
My supervisor brought that book and read it behind the desk and laughed.
I was very curious with that book.
Finally, I can bought it in around 1998 (if I'm not mistaken).This is really really fun, remind me how I took care of my baby.
The baby had power from the magic potion likes obelix.
The entire village was confusing to take care the baby from roman attack.
But, Cleopatra came to rescue the village and Caesar was speechless in front of Cleopatra.
Again, the power of woman talks.

Ada bayi ditinggal dalam keranjang di depan pintu rumah Asterix. Brutus anak caesar ngubek2 kampung galia demi mendapatkan bayi yang ternyata adalah "Anak" Julius Caesar & Cleopatra. Bayi ini besarnya menjadi Ptolemy XVI di Mesir.Mungkin seperti ini obelix ketika bayi karena si bayi sempat minum magic potion buatan sang dukun dan masuk ke dalam kuali...lucu
For a self-confessed Francophile, I really should have gotten my hands on Asterix a long time ago. But this was my first one, and I really enjoyed the cheeky sense of humour, trying to figure out the jeux de mots, and of course, Asterix's moustache. I also learnt a new form of the verb devoir ("dussè-je"... who knew?). Anyway, what a fun afternoon spent reading Asterix.
A child is dropped off at Asterix’s porch (Obelix believes he was dropped off by a stork), and Asterix and Obelisk set out to discover his identity. The plot mainly revolves around this quest, and it is far too convoluted. The power-hungry Brutus is also searching for the child (who soon ingests some magic potion).
Non mi dispiace affatto questa avventura che mette ancora sotto la lente i pettegolezzi del piccolo villaggio, in questo caso incentrati su Asterix e sul neonato che si trova davanti alla porta di casa.Le gag sono buone, la trama non è il massimo ma è comunque interessante, ed è bello rivedere una certa regina dal nasino all'insù.
i always love asterix!judul Indonesianya: Bayi Asterix, saya kira edisi ini bercerita tentang asterix waktu bayi. tapi ternyata ceritanya tentang asterix dan obelix yang terpaksa mengasuh seorang bayi yang mereka sendiri tidak tahu dari mana asalnya.lucu, kocak,keren abis!
Two gauls and a baby. That is what happen when someone left a baby in a basket in front of their door one fine day. There is something happening when the Roman is hell bend on getting this baby back. What is Brutus planning against Caesar?
Un des seuls (le seul ?) album post-goscinny qui soit à la hauteur. L'idée de départ est bonne, et le reste du scénario tient la route, preuve que, s'il le veut, Uderzo peut réaliser des albums de même niveau que le début de la série.
Asterix Son – the best and least muddled of artist Uderzo’s solo attempts, Cleopatra secretly hides newborn baby Caesarion from Caesar’s adopted son Brutus among our Gaulish friends
