https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/171201.Wit
She is visited by her former professor who offers to read her a John Donne poem.
When she learned that soporific means inducing or tending to induce sleep.On her last few days on earth, the professor analyzes her life especially the use of wit through the metaphysical poems of John Donne.
I had to look up the meaning of wit in metaphysical poems and I did not know who John Donne was and that’s the beauty of reading: you get to exposed to more things and learn new things in the process.
Before getting sick she was a hard-core academic and her focus was 17th century poetry, particularly John Donne.
My biggest fear, reading it, was that someone would cast the nurse as the wise black female archetype whose job it is in American cultural productions to emotionally support the poor old white woman and serve as a bridge to her emotional world.
And, well, I looked at the movie cast just out of curiosity (while writing this today -- I read the play yesterday) and what do you know, that's exactly what happened in the film version.
And glad I read the reviews of some folks who really liked it.
However, the subject that she analyses is her life and it is impossible to objectively assess one's life without being influenced by that assessment.Margaret Edson skillfully explores the question of whether wit gives life meaning through three layers--John Donne's poem, Vivian Bearing's monologues, and the whole plot of the play.
I cannot shake off the feeling that Margaret Edson is what Vivian Bearing would be if she hadn't died at the end of this play.W;t reinforces my notion that what gives life meaning maybe death, but it's certainly not wit.
Wow. This was overwhelming, and a bit too close to home for me, both because of my own experience and knowing what my dad must have been feeling as he faced death.
Edson has sharp insight, often nailing my own feelings of isolation and desperation during the cancer treatment experience.
And Dr. Kelekian's name is curiously familiar to me, like Dr. Kevorkian.Her wit is on full display, and you are (or at least I was) immediately sympathetic with the character.
For instance, her wit: "I just hold still and look cancerous.
It requires less acting every time." (p.
Not even time for a proper conclusion." (p.
کتاب رو رحیم قاسمیان با عنوان زیرکی ترجمه کرده و انتشارات نیلا هم چاپش کرده. نمایش نامه کوتاه و قشنگیه که چند روز از زندگی یه استاد ادبیات رو که سرطان گرفته و تحت معالجه است نشون میده.
This is a five star book that I don't feel the need to ever see again, which then makes it a four star book. Yeah that makes no sense. deal. it is a nice criticism of the medical system, and the university system in general I would say. It's not a peach, but it's probably a plum.
“How are you feeling today?” I am waiting for the moment when someone asks me this question and I am dead. I’m a little sorry I’ll miss that. Son zamanlarda çok fazla oyun okumadığımı fark ettim ve bunu değiştirmek istediğimden, Sena'nın önerisiyle Wit'e başladım. Aslında bunu listeme bir süre önce almıştım fakat birkaç gün önce birden başlamak istedim, aklımda hiç yokken. Bitirmem, okul nedeniyle, düşündüğümden uzun sürdü.Verdiğim puandan da anlayacağınız üzere oyunu epey beğendim. Eğer gidebi
Aslında bunu listeme bir süre önce almıştım fakat birkaç gün önce birden başlamak istedim, aklımda hiç yokken.
Eğer gidebileceğim bir yerlerde sahneleniyor olsaydı bitirdiğim an bilet bakıyor olurdum.
Bir sonuca varamadım belki ama güzel sorular sorduğumu düşünüyorum.Öğrencileriyle olan etkileşimlerini hatırladığı kısımlarda ise, kendi öğretmenlerimle olan ilişkilerimi düşünüp kendimi çok şanslı hissettim açıkçası.
Aslında Wit'in bana hissettirdiği çok şey var ama, hepsini buraya dökmek hem zor geliyor, hem de anlamsız.
“It”: such a little word.
Bir ara tekrar okumak ve başka sorular sormak güzel olabilir.
Oyunun sonu da çok hoşuma gitti.
Bana dokunan bir eser oldu.
First, I don’t care for the play’s structure that has Vivian as both the main character and the narrator, and how she goes back and forth with her internal monologues.
Thirdly, the narrator treats the reader/audience like a moron incapable of picking up the major themes of the play; Vivian, for instance, notes casually to herself the irony of the situation of the stoic doctor treating her the same way she treated her students.
Ugh. And don’t even get me started with the semicolon in place of the letter “i” in the title.
If you’re only reading a few plays this year, don’t make this one of them.
سه ستاره و نیم در واقع! بعید میدانم نمایشنامهای از دهههای اخیر را بتوانم واقعاً و با رضایت کامل چهار ستارۀ کامل بدهم. اما جدّاً خوب و خواندنی بود، میشود به آن برگشت و بازش خواند، و یک کارگردان زبردست حتماً میتواند اجرای درجه یکی از کار روی صحنه ببرد.
سه ستاره و نیم در واقع! بعید می‌دانم نمایشنامه‌ای از دهه‌های اخیر را بتوانم واقعاً و با رضایت کامل چهار ستارۀ کامل بدهم. اما جدّاً خوب و خواندنی بود، می‌شود به آن برگشت و بازش خواند، و یک کارگردان زبردست حتماً می‌تواند اجرای درجه یکی از کار روی صحنه ببرد.‏
Outstanding book that every writer should read. Breathtaking. Heartbreaking.
I've watched the movie version so many times, the actual play and movie have merged a bit in my memory.There is no way to "spoil" the plot, given that we learn Vivian Bearing, a John Donne scholar of distinction, tells us she is dying at the outset.
And, for lovers of John Donne, there are meaty allusions to his works, and you will never read his sonnet, "Death Be Not Proud," the same way again.The movie - which has few variations from the play - is mesmerizing.
Emma Thompson is luminous, human, intelligent, and drolly funny as Vivian Bearing, and while the movie/play is strangely uplifting, I cry - predictably - every time I watch it.
One of my dearest friends played Cassandra, the crazy/awesome/psychic housekeeper, and halfway through the run the co-props designer brings up Wit. I'd never heard of it but he told me all about how it's basically carried by one actor, the lead woman, whose character is a cancer patient.
Apparently they had performed Wit at the theatre in the '90s (first thought: GODDAMMIT I MISSED IT) and Jo (Cassandra) had played Vivian.
If I thought I was floored just hearing about this play, that's nothing to what reading it was like.
She showed how impersonal the medical system can be but that there are those within the system that remember that the patient harbors fears and insecurities and discomforts; these people try to ease the journey by showing kindness.
She also shows the mental journey of the patient as they come to grips with their inevitable end, as they think about the meaning of their lives and the acceptance of what happens.
There's victory in this play; in the way Vivian faces her treatment, her fears, her thoughts and how she ends her journey.
It is definitely a great play. I was constantly thinking on Susan Sontag's Illness and its metaphor. This book is full of wisdom and thinking about life. Whether life is a coma or a semicolon, or it is a wit that's it. These are riddles for human kind, even linguists or literary scholars won't know the answer. It worths re-reading. And I'm thinking we are all the next.
The doctors consider her as research; the technicians consider her as nuisance; and she has no family or friends to visit her except her former professor who visited her at the end of the play.Vivian's story is one that is filled with irony (I hope I am not misusing the term) as she once consider such thoughts on the intricacies of death as a puzzle to be solved by a scholarly study on the Holy Sonnets of John Donne, one of which reads like this:Death, be not proud, though some have called thee Mighty and dreadful, for thou art not so ; For those, whom thou think'st thou dost overthrow, Die not, poor Death, nor yet canst thou kill me.
;
This is a brilliant little play juxtaposing cancer and John Donne poetry, which frequently deals with death. Definitely worth the quick read and would be great to see performed.
Emotionally brutal. Brilliantly conceived. Really fucking depressing.
The play let us accompany an austere literature professor, Dr. Vivian Bearing, on her cancerous and catastrophic last days.
The hapless professor, towards the end of the play, eventually found redemption (and maybe even hope!) by returning to the memory of her innocent days when she hadn't yet heard of death, when she had no need for an ego to counter the inevitable, when words still led to pure experience and not to “poetical” abstractions.
But if at the end of reading you find yourself sympathizing with Dr. Vivian Bearing, and seeing a glimpse of yourself in her life, I would say that the book has worth your time.
This play is an extraordinary effort for a first time writer.As a nurse,the story of Vivian Bearing, to me, is a story of kindness, and the lack of it.
At the time I read it, I was also teaching and saw the professorial character of Vivian in many of my colleagues.
She craved caring and compassion at her time of vulnerability, but saw no reason to provide it when she had the opportunity to do so.
Indeed, she is the antithesis of everyone else involved with her, with the exception of her former professor.I have used this play as a teaching tool for many students, and without exception, I find that they, too, are left spellbound and introspective.
I was blown away by this play - it's incredibly short, but the emotional impact of it left me reeling for a very long time.
The play chronicles her experiences as she struggles with the advanced stages of ovarian cancer, struggling with her contempt of emotional "melodrama" while also wanting human compassion as she suffers.I absolutely loved Vivian's voice.
It seems to me that you need both in equal measure to be a remarkable human being, and I believe Vivian achieved that in the final moments of the play.I also really appreciated how the play was simultaneously intellectual without talking down on the audience and deeply emotional without being melodramatic.
At first we see her courageous and stoic approach to the terrible treatment, mirroring her style as college professor but as the pain increases and her mortality becomes ever more inescapable, her stoicism flinches and with a sense of irony and disbelief, she begins to crave for human kindness.Vivian is both the narrator and the protagonist, giving us glimpses of flashbacks and witty commentary that build on her character and her ark, she lectures us as if we were her students, so strong and seemingly detached at first and so embarrassed at her vulnerability later on.
I read this today at lunch because I forgot my Kindle at home.
I knew the plot--I believe we watched the telefilm in my AP Lit course back when we covered John Donne--but it was still a sucker-punch of a play.
Exquisitely written, achingly lonely and sad.
But damn if it isn't effective.I'll probably end up re-reading this at some point, perhaps a little more slowly, and allow myself to cry, rather than just eating a sandwich and sniffling but not crying because I don't have enough paper towels and the only one I have is covered in peanut-butter residue.
I'm thinking about the play from a production standpoint, and am amazed that people can handle the seriousness and intellectual tie ins. It is an amazingly difficult piece and I'd imagine that any actress in the lead role would need some serious therapy after doing this for months. Oh god, how emotionally draining... A college professor with no friends, no family, just literature, journeying through a battle with cancer. It is heart-wrenching but quite artistic. I'd love to see it live, but you gotta have a good actress.
This is an astoundingly beautiful play. I literally loved everything about it--the characters, blocking, script, themes! I loved how central Donne's poetry is and the evaluation of hermeneutics and irony throughout the entire play. It's so multilayered with tiny nuances up for analysis! As someone who leans towards isolation and libraries over social interaction, I really identified with Vivian's voice, and she certainly gave me a lot to think about.
This is a powerful little play. I will get to see it performed shortly in a local production starring a friend. This has a lot of emotion and truth wrapped up in a clever little package.
For another, like Vivian and possibly John Donne (it is hard to know), I have often used my obvious facility with words and my ferocious wit as a way of making it difficult to get to know me, by making me somewhat unapproachable, a problem we definitely see with regards to Vivian as she endures eight courses of an aggressive monthly chemotherapy regimen only to put herself on no code to the eventual distress and embarrassment of the research doctor who wants to explore knowledge and insight into cancer and its treatment without a particular deal of human interest himself.
This is a play we are reading for book group.
It is also a movie starring Emma Thompson and Audra Macdonald.
The main character is a uncompromising, strict literature professor who is an expert on John Donne poetry.
She is diagnosed with stage 4 ovarian cancer, and the play is about her treatment and subsequent death.
Winner of the Pulitzer Prize, this is a remarkable piece of literature.
It is also the author’s first play, which makes me crazy.
Who hits it out of the park like that on her first try??
I wish I could see it staged.
No estoy muy acostumbrada a leer teatro ni he leído demasiado de dicho genero así que no sé si puedo hacer una reseña de verdad. Pero diré que el tema o temas que se tratan en esta obra son reales y que la autora habla de ellos y los problemas que hay en ellos de una forma muy real o muy semejante a la realidad. Supongo que lo siguiente que haremos en clase será ver la obra de teatro y la verdad es que tengo ganas.
