https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4948.The_Very_Hungry_Caterpillar
I actually gave this book 5 stars, but the very hungry caterpillar ate one of them.Also, did anyone else get a defective book? My version has a bunch of holes in it.
Bush named this his favorite book from childhood (it came out when he was 23 ...
but perhaps he meant his kids' childhood).
In any event it's one of my favorites from my childhood, and from reading to my own kids.
Kids like sticking their fingers in things - genius!Anyhow - this is one HUNGRY caterpillar!
Our caterpillar just sticks a single hole in each food item - he ain't that sort of greedy, he'll leave some for others.2/ Try new things.
Our caterpillar ain't picky, he'll try anything once, even gherkin!
Straighten up and fly right and you too could become a beautiful butterfly and...
Eric Carle's books have a special place in my heart. The way he creates his illustrations makes them so colorful and appealing to all. The Very Hungry Caterpillar is one of our favorite books by him, but we enjoy them all equally. Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See?, The Grouchy Ladybug, The Very Busy Spider, The Very Quiet Cricket, and Dream Snow are just a few of our most cherished Eric Carle books. When you witness a toddler who can't read, recite all the words to these stories, you know just how much they love them too! 5*****
and he obviously has the munchies!) I dislike that the author couldn't come up with some differing foodstuffs...
come on...
And the line that says "Now he wasn't hungry any more - and he wasn't a little caterpillar anymore" drives me INSANE!
I always want to read it as: Now he wasn't hungry any more - and he wasn't little anymore.
(In fact, sometimes I DO read it wrong on purpose!) It also just leaves me a little empty at the end.
(and in his state as a caterpillar, the author mentions he is VERY hungry.
Is he MORE hungry than other caterpillars?
There are some books I’m just not smart enough to read but, darnit, I challenged myself and I finally made it through The Very Hungry Caterpillar (after several false starts)!
I’m not gonna flatter myself that I unnerstood the depth of the ideas, themes and junk in it, but I liked the colours and pitchers and stuff… Oooooh man - lookit this lil guy!
I wonder if this book is inadvertently responsible for the “health at any size/fat acceptance” movement with its message of “eat like a pig and become beautiful!”?I’m not gonna spoil the ending of course but it’s worth the journey.
Who needs a fucking summary for The Very Hungry Caterpillar?
Book Review  3+ of 5 stars to The Very Hungry Caterpillar, a children's picture book published in 1969 and written by Eric Carle. I am sure someone read this book to me as a very small child, but I know for certain that I had it on my shelf and looked through it around 10-years old. It's a delight for all ages with the cute illustrations, the physical design of the book and the quirky personality of the caterpillar.It's a useful tool to teach young children how a caterpillar grows up, eats all
It's a delight for all ages with the cute illustrations, the physical design of the book and the quirky personality of the caterpillar.It's a useful tool to teach young children how a caterpillar grows up, eats all the food around to get his/her nutrients, builds a cocoon and emerges as a butterfly.
People read into it, thinking kids will eat so much and become obese and sickly.I'll probably be hated for my next comment, but seriously?
But don't hate on a book because it seems to say "eat what you want and you'll be beautiful even when you're sick." Oh, and read it with a child.
I think I just learned that lesson reading some reviews on Goodreads about this book.
A deeply touching saga of the hardship of a young catapillar's life.The main character has to overcome his ravenous appetite on his jouney to become a butterfly.There were were in my eyes and laughter too as I jouneyed with the catapillar in the greatest epic ever told.We had much to learn from the noble catapillar.
I know everyone's supposed to love this book, but I just don't see what's so great about it. The character of the caterpillar is never properly developed, and he comes across as a one-dimensional parody of a larval form. The plot is dull and predictable, as is the language. I'm not thrilled by the artwork. If it weren't for the fact that George W. Bush praised Caterpillar so highly, I'd unhesitatingly call it vacuous, uninspired rubbish. I must be missing something, but what?
I believe this book is THE MAJOR CAUSE of the childhood obesity epidemic currently sweeping the nation. Still, nice illustrations.
A favourite of both my children. My daughter had a board book version of this that she absolutely loved from about 6 months on. She loved the holes in each page and every single time we read it she had to pretend her little finger was the caterpillar and make eating noises at every hole, and when the butterfly emerges we had to make the book flap into the air. It's not a realistic representation of a butterfly and obviously the butterfly isn't eating usual butterfly food but this was a well loved book in our house for years.
A famous picture book, described as “one of the greatest childhood classics of all time” was actually inspired by … a simple hole punch!Yes, incredibly, it’s true.
The author remembers:“One day I was punching holes with a hole puncher into a stack of paper, and I thought of a bookworm and so I created a story called ‘A Week with Willi the Worm.’”But his editor suggested that readers may not like a green worm very much, and suggested a caterpillar instead.
Eric Carle not only wrote it, but also designed and illustrated the book.Quite an achievement, then, for a book which was inspired by a simple hole punch!
SPOILER! He turns into a butterfly.
Mr. H, my grandson, loves this book so much he turned it into a play. Great show! The critics (that would be me and his aunt) raved about it! 👏🏻
small fry’s thoughts were, “If he ate all that food, he probably has to poop.”————...what am I missing???Kid Lit Experiment 2018 #3
On my quest for procrastination from reading that book, I stumbled upon The Very Hungry Caterpillar on YouTube. In this video, Eric Carle himself is reading the story.This is not my first time with the caterpillar. I used to read it a lot when I worked with children. I like that it's short, that it helps them learn numbers and the days of the week. Now that I think of it, I did not have this for my son when he was small and learning to count. Shame on me.
RAPACIOUS CONSUMERISM WORKS!EAT CAKEBE BEAUTIFUL
4 Very Hungry ★'s  “One Sunday morning the warm sun came up and - pop! - out of the egg came a tiny and very hungry caterpillar.”  This is the all-time classic picture book you'll love passing down from generation to generation. I love being able to share all my childhood favorites with my little niece :) This book gives me so much nostalgia. I read this countless times when I was younger. The Very Hungry Caterpillar by Eric Carle is such a wonderful book and it helps teach children the days of
- out of the egg came a tiny and very hungry caterpillar.”
This is the all-time classic picture book you'll love passing down from generation to generation.
I love being able to share all my childhood favorites with my little niece :) This book gives me so much nostalgia.
The Very Hungry Caterpillar by Eric Carle is such a wonderful book and it helps teach children the days of the week and a variety of different foods the Caterpillar eats.
“He built a small house, called a cocoon, around himself.
Then he nibbled a hole in the cocoon, pushed his way out and...
kids: 3times I've read this book: zillionstimes I've loved reading this book: every single one
Everyday he must rise and eat in a terrible, repetitive cycle that teaches us early of the mundanity of the working week.
But do not worry, for at the end (spOILER ALERT !) he becomes a beautiful butterfly, and all the time he's spent existing and living within this capitalistic society which demands we work everyday in order to achieve some far off dream is ACHIEVED as caterpillar self-actualises and becomes the best version of himself he could be.
the caterpillar: *eats too much, goes into a cocoon*me, a child: I think he died!the caterpillar, emerging as a butterfly:
simple counting/bug life book, wish the drawings were more appealing
Very differcult read. recommended for advance readers only.
I this book we learn that caterpillars, like humans, enjoy eating junk food, but are probably better off just eating leaves, like humans...
Excised from this edition is the chapter where the caterpillar, crazy with starvation, climbs onto a sleeping frog, burrows into its brain and becomes the frog’s Slave Master.
Slowly, the caterpillar uses the frog’s brain to intimidate the other amphibians using a Stalinist diktat that leads to a mass cull of water boatmen and a systematic persecution of water rats until the mallards, mad with rage, march on the frog armies in a violent, feathery uprising that leaves eight million swans dead and rivers of frog entrails on the shoes of passing toddlers.
Is that the sort of message we want to give our kids?
This book is sick.

No. 199 on the BBC's Big ReadHoley Shit.
book, because I must've been about five when I first read it.
I'm working my way up the BBC's Big Read, and so I re-read it.
However, I do remember enjoying the book as a kid, so I'm going to let my original rating stay.
(Also, food porn, anyone?)Anyway, so we have a very hungry caterpillar here, and he eats through a bunch of food through the course of the book.
(hide spoiler)]P.S. I remember having read an Enid Blyton story, that was kind of similar to this, as a kid.
And I remember having liked it more.
“The Very Hungry Caterpillar” is truly a cute and extraordinary book about food that children will love for many years!Eric Carle has certainly done a great job at both illustrating and writing this book.
I definitely enjoyed Eric Carle’s story of the caterpillar as it details the caterpillar’s extreme hunger whenever it ate through so many food items.
Many children will be awed at how much food the caterpillar, even I was surprised at how much food the caterpillar ate and I was not so surprised when the caterpillar had a stomachache, which will teach children about the importance of not overeating so much.“The Very Hungry Caterpillar” is definitely one of those children’s books that both children and adults will enjoy for its cute humor and colorful illustrations.
The pages are three-dimensional and interactive, guaranteed to entertain and warm the hearts of the cynical (e.g me).The character arc of the caterpillar represents the unrealistic body image set by society and the poor protagonist that only wants to fulfill the empty hole in his mentality.
Can the public eye not leave a poor, hungry caterpillar alone?Carle is a wordsmith and his work had advanced society in ways that are unappreciated, or even unnoticed.
Published in 1969 and still popular today, 'The Very Hungry Caterpillar' is a creation warming the hearts of many with the story of a young caterpillar overcoming his ravenous and reckless ways on his journey to become a beautiful, beautiful butterfly.
This is probably one of the most basic children's book but is so unique and unforgettable. The illustration style, the colours, the story, coming altogether just brilliant!
A very sweet little story.
Eric Carle has designed, written and illustrated this book! He was not only talented but obviously loved kids very much :)It's really a great children's picture book - the kids learn not only weekdays and numbers, but also names of various food. What is the most important, the kids learn already a bit of biology :) - the phases a caterpillar goes before it becomes a beautiful butterfly.What I loved particularly were illustrations! :)
