https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110494.Living_Dead_in_Dallas
(B-) 71% | SatisfactoryNotes: A fun first two-thirds, it’s spoiled by a gratuitously salacious subplot, ending the book a deflated, disorganized mess.
DNF 47%I’m done with this series. The first book was weird enough as it is, but this one is just too much for me. Nothing makes sense and at 47%, I still haven’t found a plot. Here’s a list of things I have a problem with:1. This series is weird.2. Everyone treats Sookie as if she is Bill’s possession. Even worse: a pet.3. Bill goes along with it.4. So does Sookie.5. Bill is one of the worst boyfriends I have ever met. He is boring, possessive and never fails to get Sookie into trouble. Plus, he
Everyone treats Sookie as if she is Bill’s possession.
Sookie lets him.
Sookie in Book #1: “Hi. I’m Sookie.
I’m a virgin.” Sookie in Book #2: “Sexsexsexsexsex.” This is not even an exaggeration.
Because to Sookie, a good life is being a waitress and sleeping with her dead boyfriend.
She sticks her keys in her thong.It’s one thing to let your boyfriend decide that you can’t carry around a purse.
But then I’d put the keys in my bra, not in my bloody thong.
And then he’s all pervy about it, like, “Oh why don’t you get your keys out.”
*drool* Hmm, well maybe not in pink, but in more manly colors :))___Dead in Dallas, the second installment of the Sookie Stackhouse series by Charlaine Harris, is an entertaining quick read.
I'm not a big fan of Charlaine Harris' writing style, but I have to admit, the lady has a great imagination.This book, practically covers up the entire second season of True Blood.
It's pure torture.I'm not a big fan of the books, but, if Charlaine Harris makes me imagine men in more pink Lycras, I think this will soon be my favorite series :))
If you are Sookie fucking Stackhouse no one, and I mean NO ONE, will be able to resist you...
*eyeroll*Easily my least favourite part of this story is the main character, I just cannot relate to Sookie at all.
I require that you SHOW me a character has a brain in her head to believe it, Harris) a larger part is that she reads very "ist" to me.
And homophobic – not an "ist", I know – and that bothers me!
And while I have to say that I do believe show Eric will always usurp book Eric I did find enjoyment in his character here.

A book where one of the strongest and scariest vampires goes to a town party “where there were all kinds of sex hi-jinks going on", wearing "a pink tank top and Lycra leggings which were pink and aqua", with the Barbie-Doll lookalike country-bar waitress with the big boobs and a tan, you know this is either going to be a satire, or a fun and light read...
Sookie, Bill, Eric and Sam are very likable characters in different ways, and there is some empathy even for those who do not fall under the "good guys" category.
Vampire Bill is a dud. But otherwise I really enjoyed this book, it was better than the first. I was dying laughing during most of the orgy scene...who knew Eric was so funny? Perfect vacation reading. Added bonus, I read this on the plane last night from Minneapolis to the Dallas/Fort Worth airport. Very appropriate. :)
This leads to the Fellowship, a truly scary psuedo-Christian cult that's very anti-vampire.
There's also a scary Maenad hanging around the woods at home, demanding tribute, and poor Lafayette, the flamboyantly gay cook from the bar where Sookie works, turns up dead in Andy Bellefleur's car and Sookie's determined to find out who killed him.Mystery, excitement, a bit of violence, some steamy make-up sex and new additions to the eccentric and ecclectic cast don't throw Sookie off her stride.
As a character she's great, not the least bit annoying and totally understandable, despite being in an alien situation.
I don't know if I'll read them all, my attention span is not the best, but I'm loving these books so far.
In Living Dead In Dallas we once again spend time with our heroine Sookie Stackhouse and her "interesting" friends.
Sookie is a bit grating, Bill is still boring, but thankfully we finally get more Eric.
I hope in future books we get to know more about how & why vampires decided to come out of the shadows.
I also won't mind if Sookie & Bill broke up(can you tell I'm not a fan of Bill?).
Andy’s been drinking, ’cause you know, being a cop is hard, and Sookie has to call Portia (his sister) to come and pick him up.Leaving his car at the bar.For persons unknown to leave a dead body in.But why would someone want to kill Lafayette?
You live and you learn, I guess.Freakin’ vampires.And that is how Bill and Sookie wind up on an airplane bound for Dallas.I’ve already said that this is probably my least favorite book in the series until you get to end, and that is b/c .
I almost forgot what an uptight bore Bill is. But I surely remember the glory that is Eric Northman...
This year I made a New Year's Resolution that I would read more books that I enjoy....and revisit books that I loved.
From Trixie Belden to Sookie Stackhouse, I have enjoyed my year of reading whatever I wanted to read -- with no guilt or book shaming allowed.
I'm going to read what I want....review it all....and just spend the year loving books.
It makes for a dangerous, volatile mix of emotions and violent actions on all sides.....Dead in Dallas has some great character and setting development and lots of action.
Characters and the plot of the show and books were vastly different...so I enjoyed each as different versions of the same story.
After I completed Dead Until Dark, I was hesitant to continue on with the second installment.
I got my wish.Living Dead in Dallas was a drastic improvement over its predecessor for a few reasons.
If she could only refrain from mentioning her boobs and long blonde hair, I just might be able to stand her.Second, Harris must have recognized what a gem she had in Eric as he has a commanding presence and quite a large role in Living Dead in Dallas.
Throw in a cult of radical Vampire haters and a few Bon Tempers with uh; eclectic tastes and you’ve got Living Dead in Dallas.
So here goes:TRUTHS ABOUT LIVING DEAD IN DALLASTruth #1: Dead Until Dark is better.I did not love Harris' first installment of the Sookie Stackhouse mysteries, but it was better than this one.
Plus it had more Sam.And Lafayette was still alive.Truth #2: The TV show is better.Not only is there some amazing eye candy in the TV show, the writing is better, the plot is tighter, and the characters are not only less contrived, they are really intricate, detailed, dynamic, interesting, and loads of fun.
TIME.Truth #4: Sookie still sucks.Oh god could we get a more horrible heroine?
Luckily her vampire boyfriend, despite being 150+ years old, is dumbstruck by the sight of a blonde in a thong and therefore continues to have regular unpleasant sex with her, whilst pimping her mind-reading abilities out to his boss.
Luckily for him Sookie has never heard of rape, and spends the scene being pleased that the bedsheets are nice and clean.Outside of this unpleasantness are two plots, one clumsily wedged inside the other.
Having obtained an invitation by standing around doing nowt until someone asks her, she then trots along in the company of Eric the Vampire, who is dressed as an outdated gay stereotype for plot reasons and in order that Sookie can comment on various parts of his body repeatedly.
Light smutty entertainment.
The "Southiness" of it cracks me up because I have lived in Texas for the past 18 years and can appreciate the references.Here are some of my favorite Southernisms:The expressions.
(as mentioned earlier, this expression gives you license to say any horrible thing you want as long as you utter it before or after saying it.)The other thing I liked in this book was Eric.
So, the actual story, in this book is that Eric needs Sookie and Bill to travel to Dallas and find one of his vampires that has gone missing.
Qué voy a decir, salvo que me ha gustado? Y, aunque me ha parecido que no estaba al nivel del primero, me ha conquistado! A por el tercero...!!!
By book’s end, we see Bill being forcibly reminded of his human past and genetic ties to the living, and at that moment, I understand Sookie’s attraction to him.Also introduced is the anti-vampire Fellowship of the Sun association.
Sookie gets a lot of physical abuse in this installment (much of it at the Fellowship’s hands), and it seems to me that her vampiric associates should be doing a much better job of protecting their investment!
Definitely not a 5-star book, as I originally rated it.This one has two main plots which are separate from each other: the maenad coming to Bon Temps and the encounter with the Fellowship of the Sun in Dallas.
Sookie gets "loaned out" by Eric to use her telepathy to help a nest in Dallas, led by vampire uber-nerd, Stan.
My favorite scene (besides the bullet-sucking one) was when Eric goes to the "orgy" near the end with Sookie.I probably won't re-read this one again, but I still give it three Eric Northman stars.
Quick thoughts here, since I probably won't bother to do a full review.
It was another quick read.
Instead, there are two mysteries in two locations, and we get more exposure to the worlds of vampires and shape-shifters, and I finally got to know what the fuss about Eric is all about - or at least I'm starting to get it.
nice, but she has way more of a connection with both Sam and Eric than Bill.
I'm having fun with this series, but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who wants to take things too seriously.
Sookie is in the midst of multiple romances, that's one thing for sure.
I mean if she’s going to continue playing in the vampire world she's going to need all the strength she can get so its a no-brainer really as it speeds up healing and gives humans increased power.As much as I’m enjoying this series I guess I should have taken a closer look at the spine of this book because with this instalment Charlaine Harris switches from paranormal romance to more urban fantasy, which was a real disappointment to me.
It was a fast, engaging read. Different, in details, from the series, but the feel is the same. It's an interesting world that Harris has created. She brings up some well thought out points about how a vampire would differ from a normal human. It's certainly not high literature, but an awful lot of fun.
After being healed, Eric sends them both to Dallas to help their local vamp leader, Stan Davis, find out what happened to his missing 'brother' Farrell, who's been MIA for about a week, while Eric tries to solve Bon Temps little Maenad problem.
Speaking of meeting another telepath, Sookie also meets other supernatural beings, such as other shapeshifters and werewolves who end up helping her out of a few life or death situations.This book was much more humorous than Dead Until Dark .
I liked the first book in this series, but with this book did I rally start to love the series. The Sookie Stackhouse series is such a fantastic series, at least until the last book that ruined it all. Living Dead in Dallas is a terrific book. I love the humor, the action and of course, Eric Northman. Yup, not a Bill fan at all! ;) I do recommend this series, however, the last book is very, very bad. But until that one is the books great!
However, the interesting climax to the fight was Sookie storming off into the woods alone, getting attacked by a Greek mythical creature and then Bill having to find her, take her to Erik where they and 2 other Vampires had to suck out all the poison in Sookies blood and then give her a transfusion...
pansy.Bill finds himself needing to go back to Dallas (you know, to get away from the obvious danger Sookie is in again) She gets invited to a party (one that she will be able to determine the killer of the murder at the beginning of the book) Oh..
Bill just happens to show up the moment Sookie gets a conscience and tells Erik to get off...
Not to mention, she works for Eric on odd jobs, and he sends her to Dallas to do some investigating for the vampires.Once again, Sookie Stackhouse proves to be a (mostly) light-hearted, carefree paranormal series that is fun and fluffy and doesn't take itself too seriously.
It was a shame to see Lafayette dead (I don't remember him TOO much from the previous book, but he did seem fun), but other characters get time to shine, most notably Eric.
Sookie Stackhouse is at it again, getting herself tangled up in all sorts of supernatural mischief involving vampires, werewolves, and now a maenad.
While I enjoy the books and will continue reading the series, there were a few things that irked me enough to bump it down to a 3 star.
Strangely, Sookie was one of the things that drew me to the series because she's not a helpless female so in love with a vampire that it consumes her entire sense of self.
However, Harris seemed to backpedal a little bit here with Sookie.
I'm sorry.I actually kind of like the book because I think it was better than the show - but only for that reason.Living Dead in Dallas was a fast read, to me at least, and it definitely kept my interest.
I don't really like or hate the girl but I am hoping she gets more interesting in the next book or later in the series.
I just keep picturing the actors from the TV show and I can't decide if it makes the character better or worse off.I have no idea when I will read the next book in this series.
Are there any ugly vampires???I do not watch the television show, not even sure if it is still on, so I don't have any preconceived idea of what these characters look like....
but I'm just assuming they are all absolutely gorgeous, and then we have Sookie ...
Who apparently no man or woman can resist, really???
He just seems to be extremely boring....Now onto the book, I did enjoy it, I did enjoy the mystery and I find the vampire politics in this series interesting....
this is a series I am not completely sold on yet, will I continue?
Not sure....
