https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2784.Ways_of_Seeing
My map of the book:
To understand how images work on us – how we are manipulated by them – that takes at least as long as it takes to learn the same things about how words work on and manipulate us.So, on one level this book is an exploration of the history of oil painting and what such paintings ‘mean’ – mean to us now in comparison to what they meant to earlier generations of people in Western societies.
I don't know what crazy crazyman let that through the gate at Penguin but I just felt I had to point it out right away.
Really interesting stuff cutting away some of the bullshit associated with our appreciation of art.
It seems like museums are doing a lot of things wrong as well as right.Chapter on oil-painting was particularly interesting but it was the last one about advertising (or "publicity" as it's exclusively referred to in this book) that has me thinking.
Advertising not only needs you to want this shirt, this car, the entire industry must endeavor to narrow the scope of your desires to make you amenable to the culture.
But Berger et al* go a step further: we need to use the fact that we encounter works of art differently to undermine the ruling class's privilege and the "specialized experts who are the clerks of the nostalgia of a ruling class in decline." That's on page 32.
In general, the lesson of this book is that all art is bad for you, except the pieces that the authors of this book like.
* Humorous aspect of this book: it makes a big deal about how it was written by a group of people, because, you know, individuals are bad, and groups are good.
Way of Seeing, John Berger عنوان: شیوه های نگریستن؛ شیوه های دیدن؛ شیوه های نگاه؛ نویسنده: جان برگر (جان برجر)؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: از ششم فوریه تا دوم مارس سال 2013 میلادیعنوان: شیوه های نگریستن؛ نویسنده: جان برگر (جان برجر)؛ مترجم: غلامحسین فتح الله نوری؛ تهران، ویژه نگار، 1388؛ در 77 ص، مصور، شابک: 9789649461748؛ موضوع: ادراک بصری، فن، هنر، از نویسندگان قرن 20 معنوان: شیوه های نگاه؛ نویسنده: جان برگر (جان برجر)؛ مترجم: محمد هوشمند ویژه؛ تهران، بهجت، 1390؛ در 160 ص، مصور، رنگی؛ شابک: 9789642763528؛ عنوان: شیوه های دیدن؛ نویسنده: جان برگر (جان برجر)؛ مترجم: زیبا مغربی؛ تهران، شورآفرین، 1393؛ در 122 ص، مصور، رنگی؛ شابک: 9786006955278؛ جان برگر در «راه‌های دیدن» می‌گوید: «مردان به زنان می‌نگرند و زنان به خود نگاه می‌کنند که مورد تماشا قرار گرفته‌ اند.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review."Seeing Comes Before Words: "Ways of Seeing" by John Berger “But because it is nevertheless ‘a work of art”’ – and art is thought to be greater than commerce – its market price is said to be a reflection of its spiritual value of an object, as distinct from a message or an example, can only be explained in terms of magic or religion.” In “Ways of Seeing” by John Berger “Original paintings are silent and still in a sense that information never is.
.اگر کتاب رو خوندید و یا حتی نخوندید . حتما مستند " راه های نگریستن " رو که خود جان برجر ساخته ببنید . مستند بی نظیری که حتی جامع تر از کتابه ..ممنون آقای جان برجر بیشتر برای مستند ❤
If you are really impatient, you may go and see Trevor's brilliant review for this book. Otherwise you may wait a few weeks for mine - I don't think it would be fair to review the book without seeing the documentary.
The theories presented are very interesting and are posed with pictorial references that do very well to prove points.
One interesting chapter deals exclusively with the 'Nude' in art overtime.
Another great chapter deals in the context in which people see art, in contrast to how they might have been meant to see it by the artist.
Overtime people now view art online or in sections of video, where a director controls the viewers eyes as what to see through camera tricks and narration.
The chapter contemplates and guesses how this might change to experience of art over time.
A very interesting read.
This book though initially written in 1972 is still relevant to the reader today especially the essays dealing with the way women are seen in society.
It discusses how women are view in society with an emphasis and concentration on European or Western culture.
Being that I work in a museum and see paintings all day long this aspect interests me in particular.Basically the book is saying that in our European based culture women are objects, men are subjects.
But that is another story for discussion in the essays I have written.

Böyle şahane bir kitabı siyah beyaz basan Metis'i kınıyorum. Tamamen tablolarla dolu bir kitabı siyah beyaz basmak... Akıl alır şey değil.
Bu kitap John Berger'in BBC'de yayımlanmış belgeselinin yazılı hali.(Tam olarak değil.) Kitapta resimler üzerinden hayatın birçok noktasına değiniliyor.
Kitapta en çok hoşuma giden kısımlar ise kadın erkek ilişkisi ve reklamlar üzerine olan bölümler.
seyirlik bir şeye dönüştürmüş olur." Bu tespite katılmamak elde değil.
Günümüzde de hala kadınlar görsel meta olarak kullanılıyor.
Her şey paraya dayanır; parayı ele geçirmek huzursuzluğu yenmek demektir." En basit örnek ; yeni çıkacak bir telefon modeli için millet şimdiden sipariş verdi.
Bir şeyler elde edemeyince hemen mutsuz oluyoruz.
Memnuniyetsiz hayatın oluşumuna sadece reklamlara dayandırmak abes olabilir ama etkisi çok büyük.
( Evinde okuyacağın kitap çok, hala alıyorsun durmadan !
فکر میکردم قراره یک کتاب آلندوباتنی باشه درباره دیدن و نحوه تحلیل آثار هنری. اما بحثاش کمی عمیقتر و سختدرکتر بود و شاید کمی تخصصیتر. برای کسی میتونست جذاب باشه که علاقه به تاریخ هنر و فلسفه هنر داشته باشه. بخش سوماش رو کمتر میفهمیدم اما بخشهای دیگه با دقیق خوندن؛ درنهایت قابل فهم بود!
فکر می‌کردم قراره یک کتاب آلن‌دوباتنی باشه درباره دیدن و نحوه تحلیل آثار هنری. اما بحثاش کمی عمیق‌تر و سخت‌درک‌تر بود و شاید کمی تخصصی‌تر. برای کسی می‌تونست جذاب باشه که علاقه به تاریخ هنر و فلسفه هنر داشته باشه. بخش سوم‌اش رو کمتر می‌فهمیدم اما بخش‌های دیگه با دقیق خوندن؛ درنهایت قابل فهم بود!
On the top floor in the Strand Bookstore in New York, I saw a self-consciously bored worker show a struggling-to-be-bored kid with his mom to the art table.
The worker was like "well, you need this, and this, and this" and I realized the kid must be in art school and the worker must have graduated pretty recently.
The worker was like "have you read Ways of Seeing?
At a certain point in your life this will BLOW YOUR MIND, but if you know in your heart that one day we will all hate stainless steel kitchens and be like "ugh, so old fashioned, barf" you will probably be like "yeah, this was okay."
জন বারজার কয়েকদিন আগেই মারা গেলেন। পেরিফেরাল ভিশনে থাকা বিখযাত লোকের মত তার মৃতযুসংবাদ নজরে পড়ে - কিনতু তখনো তার কোন বই পড়া হয় নাই। আর সব কিছু ছাপায় তো আসলে এই বইটাই - ১৯৭২ সালে বিবিসির জনযে বানানো একটা চার পরবের পরামানযচিতর ছিল পরথমে (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=utEoR... পুরোটাই ইউটিউবে আছে) - পরে সেটা বের হলো পুসতকাকারে।দুইদিন আগে Ways of Seeing হাতে পেলাম। আরট বিষয়ক বই, এতটুকু জানতাম - কিনতু ভিতরে কি আছে, কেন এই বইকে বৈপলবিক গণয করা হয়, তার কিছুই জানা ছিল না। সাতটা ছোট ছোট অধযায় আছে বইয়ে
পুরোটাই ইউটিউবে আছে) - পরে সেটা বের হলো পুস্তকাকারে।দুইদিন আগে Ways of Seeing হাতে পেলাম। আর্ট বিষয়ক বই, এতটুকু জানতাম - কিন্তু ভিতরে কি আছে, কেন এই বইকে বৈপ্লবিক গণ্য করা হয়, তার কিছুই জানা ছিল না। সাতটা ছোট ছোট অধ্যায় আছে বইয়ে - তার মধ্যে তিনটা শুধু পেইন্টিংয়ের এর সাদা কালো রিপ্রোডাকশন - পাতার পর পাতা পর পাতা। বাকি থাকে চারটা অধ্যায় - টেক্সট এবং ছবির মিশ্ৰণ। বার্জার আশ্বস্ত করেন - যে কোন সিকোয়েন্সই পড়া যাবে। ট্রেনে বসে তৃতীয় অধ্যায় খুলে সেটাই পড়া শুরু করলাম - নারীকে নিয়ে। প্রথমেই জানালেন - "Men look at women.
If you think you like looking art and going to galleries - ha - then you need to take a minute to read and listen to this conversation Berger is going to have with you.Link to the documentary (which I definitely recommend you watch to supplement the reading of the text): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0pDE4...Will add my proper in-depth review of this later (as it really does deserve one).
For now, I will just say that Berger makes us think: he makes us think about the impact of images, their history, their place in society and their role in furthering capitalist agendas.
Seeing comes before words.
The child looks and recognizes before it can speak.But there is also another sense in which seeing comes before words.
It is seeing which establishes our place in the surrounding world; we explain that world with words, but words can never undo the fact that we are surrounded by it.
This was once achieved by extensive deprivation.
Today in the developed countries it is being achieved by imposing a false standard of what is and what is not desirable.
نویسنده در این کتاب فارغ از پیش فرض های پیچیده، شما را به دیدار نقاشی میبرد.
جایی که در لابه لای شیوه ی استادانه ی کشیدن حالات چهره پرسوناژ های قرن هفدهمی، نگاه بالا به پایین و شهوت به تصویر کشیدن مایملک سفارش دهندگان نقاشی های رنگ روغن پنهان شده است.
کتاب با این آگاهی تاریخی سراغ تبلیغات و دیگر مسایل معاصر میرود و خط و ربط نگاه مردانه به زنان در نقاشی های رنگ روغن، نگاه مالک مآبانه در نقاشی های پرتره و منظره قرن هفدهمی را این بار در تبلیغات می یابد.پیش نقدی بر کتاب را میتوانید این جا بیابید:http://ganje.blog.ir/post/18
A book about basic visual literacy, with 7 essays, 3 of them containing only images.
But Berger here really dissects the historical origins of the form, and what oil really allowed artists to do that they weren't able to do before.Major turn off: the entire book is set in bold type.
I have no idea why this decision was made, but the book is worth reading, despite this huge flaw.
Another smaller flaw: a book about images should definitely have been printed in color.
کتابی نبود که انتظار داشتم. درسته که دقیقاً داشت شیوههای نگریستن رو بررسی میکرد اما تحلیلهاش طوری نبود که بتونم ازش چیزی یاد بگیرم. و در آخر چیزی دستم رو بگیره. فصل اول یهجورایی ادامهای بود بر مقالهی «اثر هنری در عصر بازتولید مکانیکی»ِ والتر بنیامین که خب نمیتونم بگم چیزی هم به اون اضافه کرده بود. فصل دوم بررسی دورههای مختلف نقاشی و رویکرد نقاشها به سوژههاشون بود و فصل آخر هم به تبلیغات میپرداخت که در عین جذابیتِ متن، برای من ارضاکننده نبود. این میتونه نتیجهی خریدِ اینترنتیِ کتاب باشه بی اون که
درسته که دقیقاً داشت شیوه‌های نگریستن رو بررسی می‌کرد اما تحلیل‌هاش طوری نبود که بتونم ازش چیزی یاد بگیرم.
و در آخر چیزی دستم رو بگیره.
فصل اول یه‌جورایی ادامه‌ای بود بر مقاله‌ی «اثر هنری در عصر بازتولید مکانیکی»ِ والتر بنیامین که خب نمی‌تونم بگم چیزی هم به اون اضافه کرده بود.
فصل دوم بررسی دوره‌های مختلف نقاشی و رویکرد نقاش‌ها به سوژه‌هاشون بود و فصل آخر هم به تبلیغات می‌پرداخت که در عین جذابیتِ متن، برای من ارضاکننده نبود.
این می‌تونه نتیجه‌ی خریدِ اینترنتیِ کتاب باشه بی اون که تونسته باشی پیش از خوندن، توی کتابفروشی تورقش کرده باشی!
It's been a while since I read 'Ways of Seeing' for school, but I hated it. Why? In the most simple way, because Berger talks again and again about demystification, yet I found his book to be thinly veiled Socialist propaganda. His Marxist interpretations of paintings can be extremely simplistic and one-sided - making you feel dumb for wanting to appreciate an artwork for its beauty or value as a cultural artifact. All in all, it reads like a text by a highschooler whose critical thinking isn't all that nuanced.
Aš jau nebe high-school, bet, matyt, įvadas nepamaišo :)Nežiūrėjau serialo, pagal kurį parengta knyga, tai viskas buvo šviežia (sort of).
O toliau - kuo ypatingas moters vaizdavimas Vakarų mene (objektas, skirtas žiūrėti), kas yra aliejinė tapyba (turtuolių išsidirbinėjimas ir statuso įtvirtinimas), kas yra viešumas (bandymas prakišt senovės vaizdų kaip vertingos prekės).Iš tiesų tas vienaplanis neomarksistinis žvilgsnis, kad tipo viską valdo kapitalas ir viskas atspindi piniginius santykius, mane ir biesino, bent truputį.
Jei Holbeino ambasadoriai žiūri atsainiai (o kaip mums tą patikrint ar su tuo diskutuot??), tai dėl to, kad nori būti nepasiekiami buržujai.
Po to - jei moteris vaizduojama visada išsirengusi ir atsisukusi į žiūrovą, tai dėl to, kad ji pateikiama kaip prekė.
Ocak ayında kaybettiğimiz John Berger'in BBC için hazırladığı programın araştırma kitabı bu.
Şahsen ben o diziyi izledikten sonra bu kitabı öğrendim.
BBC serisi beni daha çok etkilese de kitap ayrıntılı bilgiler içeriyor.Dizilere paralel şekilde 4 ana bölümü var:Özellikle fotoğraf makinesi ve kopyalama olanaklarının artması nedeniyle imgelerin anlamının değiştiğini görüyoruz.
Biricik sanat eseri kavramı artık eskisi gibi değil, imgelere bölünerek anlamı çoğaltılılıyor ve yönlendiriliyor.2.bölüm Avrupa yağlıboya resimlerinde nü kavramı ve kadın algımıza yarattığı etki üzerine.
Çoğu nü tablonun aslında seyredenin isteklerine göre yaratılmış olması.3.bölümde yağlıboya resimlerin aslında üst sınıf mülkiyetinin kafa kağıdı olduğunu görüyoruz.
Ben ise ezberbozanlardan yanayım.
Hiç bitmesin istediğim bir sohbet gibiydi... Özellikle reklam ile ilgili olan kısımlarını çok severek okudum.
Sanat ve özellikle de yağlıboya resimler konusuna farklı bir bakış açısı sunuyor bu kitap. Fotoğrafın çıkması yağlıboya resimleri ve sanat eserlerini nasıl etkiledi, sanatta çıplaklık ve nü nedir? Yağlıboya resimlerden reklamcılığa uzanan dildeki benzerlikler kitaptaki birkaç başlıktır. Kitapla ilgili ayrıntılı incelemem: https://kitapokurum.blogspot.com/2018...
What matters now is who uses that language for what purposeIII:•	[A woman’s] nakedness is not, however, an expression of her own feelings; it is a sign of her submission to the owner’s feelings or demands.•	Almost all post-Renaissance European sexual imagery is frontal – either literally or metaphorically – because the sexual protagonist is the spectator-owner looking at it.•	Here and in the European tradition generally, the convention of not painting the hair on a woman’s body helps towards the same end.
Berger obviously has the best of intentions, but his analysis is amateurish at best, pathetically reactionary (almost to the point of seeming to whine) at worst, and largely cribbed from thinkers of far greater intellectual originality and power than himself.For starters, he seems either ignorant of or unwilling to admit that what we broadly call 'mainstream visual art' is, was, and quite likely almost always has been directly tied up with wealth; with commissions, patronage, really with human commerce itself.
يعلق الفنان السريالي مارغريت على الهوة الماثلة بين الكلمات والرؤية في لوحة بعنوان " مفتاح الأحلام " ».يتحدث جون برجر في مقالاته النقدية السبع؛ أربعة منها عن استخدام الكلمات والصور، وثلاثة عن استخدام الصور فقط.
لم يتناول الكتاب أعمال محددة، بل عدة أعمال مختلفة بغية إطلاقه عملية من المساءلة حول الطرق التي نقرأ أو نفهم بها هذه الأعمال اليوم .
لكن شهرة برجر انطلقت بالفعل عام 1972 عندما عرض التلفزيون البريطاني سلسلته الوثائقية «طرق الرؤية»، التي لا تزال تلهم أجيالًا من محبي الفن والنقد الفني حتى الآن.
كان برجر دائمًا واضحًا وصريحًا وصارخًا في كل أعماله ومواقفه ككاتب يؤمن بالماركسية وبالنظرية النقدية في عالم اليوم المسلّع.
Kdosi mi rikal, ze to jsou dva ruzni lidi, ale ruku na srdce, kolik znate Bergeru?
Prvni tri eseje jsou dobry kladivo na palici, kdy si reknete, "ty vole, jak to, ze jsem o tom nikdy takto nepremyslel," na coz jsem si samozrejme dokazal v cuku letu odpovedet.
No protoze jsi dement, Palivo.
Esej o oil painting me zarmoutil - pred par stoletimi lidi malovali olejem takovy krasny obrazy a my ted na oleji maximalne tak smazime hranolky a rizky!
Posledni esej o reklame me moc nezajimal, protoze jak reklama funguje vim naprosto presne.
