https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368291.Essays_in_Persuasion
A series of thirty-odd essays on economics.
Topics range from the gold standard to how bad the Versailles treaty was to the first cogent explanations of deficit spending and the multiplier effect.
Keynes' essays are also very clear, precise, and even witty, a rare breed in economics.
Although these positions are now some eighty years old, it is remarkable to see how many of them hold up - most notably, criticism of austerity after the Great Depression.
If people are more inclined to save, then less money is spent.
The less money is spent, the less products and services are demanded.
Not to mention social nets and massive economic losses for the unemployed.
Keynes writings and observations from the end of WWI through the 1920s and early 1930s. His ideas. Reads like political essays on events of the day pertaining to economics. The events of those days were quite important and the magnitude of the upheavals was huge. War and Depression like we haven't seen in a while.
Keynes predicts on that essay that within 100 years time mankind would solve its economic problem thanks to the increases on productivity, and would be able to cover the absolute needs leaving much more time for leisure.The author distinguishes between absolute needs and relative needs.
Some lines after, he writes: "By fixing he Reparation payments well within Germany's capacity to pay, we make possible the renewal of hope and enterprise within her territory"When you see, in 20 lines of a 1919 essay, an early proposal of the European Union and a measure that could have avoided WWII, you get convinced that Keynes was a visionary genius.Other interesting essays are the series about the return to the gold standard and its effects.
by which have have exalted some of the most distasteful of human qualities into the position of the highest virtues.""...man will be faced with his real, his permanent problem-how to use his freedom from pressing economic cares, how to occupy the leisure, which science and compound interest will have won for him, to live wisely and agreeably and well."
In the 1920s, the great currency question was German reparations.
This is very similar to our current pattern of sovereign indebtedness.
In both cases, the currency question - which is, essentially, a monetary question - led to an asset bubble.2.
Fiscal contraction has simply worsened the recession rather than encouraging a return to growth.3.
This takes us back to the question of reparations.Keynes writing is a joy to read.
Today, he would be seen as a great communicator.
In my opinion, this book has as much relevance today as it had when it was written.
Collection of Keynes' writings published in 1931, mostly concerned with topics that were already passing away (as he recognised): Versailles and the German war reparations; war debts generally; the Gold Standard; the struggles of European governments to adjust to new post-war economic conditions and the temptation of damaging policies aimed at restoring pre-1914 "normality".
The Economic Consequences Of Mr Churchill is here, with its residual interest as a reminder that Winston wasn't always great, and that finance ministers can be mugged by special interests.
Ideas about "post-work" in the age of automated production are present here already.
This is really a collection of Keynes' articles on a couple of economic subjects.
Imagine if Paul Krugman wrote somewhat longer pieces.
That's roughly this collection.In today's environment, Keynes's argument for inflation to increase employment seems timely.
But some of the argument seems muddled by the dignified language.
New articles begin midway through a page with only a year in parenthesis to denote the change.
There's not any sort of typographical indication (e.g., a larger font size or bold text) that a particular phrase is an article heading or, for that matter, a section heading.
What a clear-headed human!The compilation of essays by JM Keynes is best taken in instalments. It is an omnium gatherum of pellucid and well reasoned predictions, positions and commentaries on politics, economy, philosophy, and a bonus review of H.G. Wells's book - The World of William Clissold.I will definitely read it more than twice.
Awesome book.
Peter Keller, president of polling company YouGov has chosen to discuss John Maynard Keynes's  Essays in Persuasion , on FiveBooks as one of the top five on his subject - British Democracy, saying that:"Every essay is readable and compelling. This volume spans the aftermath of the First World War and his assault on the Versailles Treaty and the damage it was going to cause – as it did, because in humiliating Germany it led, arguably, to Germany choosing Adolf Hitler – right through to the 1920s
Essays in Persuasion
, on FiveBooks as one of the top five on his subject - British Democracy, saying that:"Every essay is readable and compelling.
This volume spans the aftermath of the First World War and his assault on the Versailles Treaty and the damage it was going to cause – as it did, because in humiliating Germany it led, arguably, to Germany choosing Adolf Hitler – right through to the 1920s and 30s and the arguments over the gold standard, through some of the essays he wrote in preparation for his General Theory, right to his writing on how to pay for the Second World War.”The full interview is available here: http://five-books.com/interviews/Peter-Kellner
I originally picked this up in preparation for a class that ended up being cancelled.
It is difficult to review this from an economic standpoint, as my knowledge of this area is woefully lacking, but what I can speak to is the clarity of the mind that wrote the 30+ essays included in the book.
Seeing as the essays in the book were all originally published between 1919 and 1939, a good number of them deal with economic consequences of WWI.
Keynes' essay at the end on the economic future of the world was the most fascinating essay in the book by far. Some of this was quite dense, and a bit too much about currencies, monetary policies, and politics than I care for. Overall, I thought it was a good primer on Keynes himself.He was quite prescient with regards to the end of WWI and treaties as well as the long-term economic growth of the modern world.
Para el documento que presentamos con Julio en San Pablo usamos el ensayo "Economic Possibilities for our Grandchildren" que está publicado en este libro.
Easily my favourite work by Keyenes.
