https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84726.The_Ship
One, used by Forester so successfully in his Hornblower books, is to follow the career of an individual through personal conflict and trials of battle.
Another, far more risky and the technique used in The Ship, is to narrate the interactions among men while they work out these interactions during a single engagement.
Any failure in the long chain of events carried out in a ship's organisation - from the cooks on the mess deck, to the oiler exiled to the remote shaft alley - means catastrophic failure of the whole not just a portion of the crew.The mundane details of shipboard life give texture to Forester's depiction of battle.
A good account of a Royal Navy ship in a single engagement in WWII.
This book was written in 1943 in an obvious effort to lift the morale of the British at home and around the world, but it is more than simple propaganda.
The author explains both the technology and the tactics of a cruiser engaging a superior force by going into the heads of officers and ratings (enlisted crew) with many different roles to play in running the ship during combat and at normal times.
This book is very much a product of the time and place it was written, and as such it is wholly deserving of 5 stars.
Do bead in mind though that this is propaganda- written specifically for the British government at a time of war.
For all that, and it's over arching patriotic fervour, this book is an superb evocation of the community of men that made a WWII Royal Naval Warship, and almost as good as The Cruel Sea as a read.
To really appreciate it you need to recognise it for what it is - literature as battle cry.
Reading this reminds me of my Dad, who was a gunnery instructor and in the RN for 27 years. Very detailed description of the battle as seen from various view points.
The ship in the novel, HMS Artemis, is fictitious as all her company but it reads like it could be a true story.The book is crammed full of details of how you conduct a battle at sea;p122 “A forty knot torpedo fired at a range of three miles at a ship advancing at twenty knots reaches its target in three minutes having only travelled two miles; but if the ship is retreating instead of advancing the torpedo must run for nine minutes before it overtakes it target.
This book glorifies the English Navy in WWII, in a sincere and emotional manner.
It's a very short read, and the entire plot takes place in the course of a single engagement somewhere near Gibraltar in the Mediterranean, where an outnumbered British force must somehow turn back the nominally overwhelming strength of the Italian Navy.
The book is an unabashed and seemingly deserved love letter to the stalwarts who won that war.
We are led to imagine that if they'd faltered once, failed in bravery, altruism or slacked off on the slightest thing, the war could have turned.
Written in 1943, the novel is an account of HMS Artemis, a British light cruiser, part of a group escorting a convoy of needed supplies to Malta.
The chapters serve to illustrate how each crewmen, be it a gunner, engineman, sick berth attendant, secretary, or officer, was instrumental in the success of the defense of the convoy.
Yes, this was written as a propaganda piece, but as military historical fiction, it serves to illustrate the importance of competent and motivated individuals, working as team, in the combat operations of modern naval vessels.
An enjoyable book. Forester did a wonderful job highlighting the many different personalities and unsung heroes who need to combine to achieve an major human endeavour - in this instance, successfully operating a cruiser in the Mediterranean.
Not quite as good as "The Good Shepherd," but still a great read about a WWII naval engagement.
Enjoyable with a very relevant quote considering recent mishaps in the US Navy."The most beautiful machines, the most elaborate devices, were useless if the men who handled them were badly trained or shaken by fear, and there was the interesting point that the more complex the machinery, and the more human effort it saved, and the more exactly it performed its functions, the greater need there was for heroes to handle it.
Not mere individual heroes, either, but a whole team of heroes.
Disaster would be the result of a weak link anywhere along the long chain of the ship’s organization."
Originally published on my blog here in March 1999.Forester's wartime novel is fairly unashamedly a piece of propaganda, designed to make British readers proud of the efforts of the Navy.
The novel is unusual among naval stories for the attention that it pays to the ordinary rank and file, including the commissary side (vitally important, of course, in a real war, but not very glamorous).
The book must have, for many readers, achieved its purpose, which was to encourage everyone who read it that their effort was important to the successful conclusion of the war.
This book was written in that style: a propaganda piece intended to spark patriotic feelings and sympathy for the brave and committed British fighting the tyranny of Mussolini and Hitler.Reading this book made me think of those Hollywood war movies made during World War II – they were never very good stories and when we watch them we recognize that they were propaganda pieces intended to spark patriotic fervor.
Useful to read so we can better recognize propaganda when we see it even if it is for a good cause.
Excellent naval war story. Forester sets his story in the Meditteranean on HMS Artremis, a British cruiser part of a convoy of ships trying to relieve isolated Malta. Each chapter starts as an exerpt from the Capt's log with the chapter detailing the actions that make up this simple entry. Forester explores the ship, the crew as he tells his story. A simple story, but one of heroism, one battle against an Italian fleet. So well written, smootly paced to keep the pages turning. Excellent story. I rank it up with Alistair MacLean's HMS Ulyssess in great naval war stories.
By the critically acclaimed author of the Hornblower series, *The Ship" looks at WWII action in the Mediterranean aboard a British Royal Navy light cruiser, HMS Artemis. While the vessel and its crew are fictitious, the descriptions of life aboard similar vessels, their actions in combat, and their tribulations when faced by larger and more heavily armed enemy vessels is well researched and thoroughly believable. It suitable for both young adult and adult readers alike.
This is probably the 3rd time I've read this book, and it never disappoints. It's a good story and I like the way each chapter heading is a sentence out of the Captain's log - so that it carries you through the story, so to speak. Some of the digressions into the characters and lives of the sailors are a bit irritating, but I like all the information about the workings of the ship etc. All in all I think it's a cracking read.
the writing style is OK, but FOrester seems to have used this book for two purposes. Firstly, to use up some new big words he came across. Secondly, to tell us all that he knows about the different functions on board a ship.The novel takes place on a ship in the middle of the second world war, in the midst of a battle. But this is the most drawn out, boring narration of one I have come across. Don't bother with it - really. I gave up after about half the book.
I am extremely interested in the history involving the convoys to Malta during World War 2. Having a background in reading about this period of history and having visited Malta more than once, I found this book extremely well written with extraordinary character development and insightful in depth, personal interactions between the ship and the crew.
Lots of detail about the inner workings of a British Light Cruiser in battle - WWII. Includes small studies of many of the crew on board also.
Loved the bookExcellent writing.Great action description. The author will not let the readers put down the book for a moment. Interesting way of describing the characters.
My favorite C.S. Forester novel based on the real-life light cruiser H.M.S. Penelope and the 2nd Battle of Sirte.
An unabashed paen to the royal navy. C.S. Forester is in his element as he describes a valiant action by an inferior British force defending a convoy to Malta. You either like this stuff or you dont.
This book is very accurate and includes the small details of life on a WW2 ship that many authors fail to find.
Hour by hour story of the people who make a warship work, set in a WWII battle. A celebration of the sacrifices, tragedy and triumph.
Real lifeThis story was very enjoyable. I really thought I was on-board HMS Artemis during the action. I could hear the explosions.
My Father served in the Med in WWII. This graphic and descriptive book helps explain his life at that time.
This Forester novel treats encounters between the Royal and Italian Navies in the early stages of the Second World War. It is written with Forester's customary narrative verve and profound knowledge of the details of naval weaponry and strategy, but it smacks of propaganda in almost every aspect of its representation of the Italians. Writing in 1943, Forester may have been making a substantial contribution to the war effort, but the national chauvinism which sometimes peeks out from the pages of the Hornblower saga makes a glaring and, for me, off-putting appearance here.
A decent read, I was able to plod my way through it, although it was not remarkable in any way. 'The Ship' has a literary style which belongs firmly in a bygone era. Readers who have sailed at sea any length of time, as I have, may find parts of this story resonate. Bear in mind the entire setting is based on board the vessel HMS Artemis. Historically the book is of interest, as it reflects true events. One final thought, a little background knowledge of WWII, specifically Italian involvement in the Mediterranean, would help the reader dissect this story.
Amazing storyThis was a look at the internal workings of a warship in battle. How every person on board, from the lowest seaman to the captain of the ship, is vital to the success and victory of battle, and finally to winning the war.C S Forester is a master at putting the reader in the middle of a battle. The experience is as intense as the naval battles that I participated in.
The writing is excellent, the tension maintained even during the many detours for quick sailor bios.
This is a quick, easy read; simple to go through during those quiet pools of time in a long weekend.
The description of date rape near the end, though, clearly dates this book as a man’s book, back in 1943.Although it is fiction I searched but could not place this action in the British navy’s defense of Malta in 1940-41.
However, the book did encourage me to go and look at the British defense of Malta as I had never before.
One of the greatest sea stories ever told. I recommend this story for anyone who may consider a career in the Navy. I wish I was aware of it back those 50 years when I was honored to work on 2 mighty aircraft carriers. The discipline and monotony would have been much easier to accept
