https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/912578.Back_to_the_Stone_Age

It still amazes me how Edgar Rice Burroughs was able to make the most fantastic plots and stories seem real while you read them. The stories absorb you. The high point in Edgar Rice Burroughs stories is his power of description. It is as if you are watching a movie while you read. BACK TO THE STONE AGE is no exception.
I think Lt. von Horst might be my favorite character in all of the Pellucidar books so far. He's a German Lieutentant from the airship that Jason Gridley brought down. He was separated from the rest at the start of the 4th book and this is his story. Von (as he's called by his dream girl La Ja) is a smart ass and always quipping, which is a huge departure from the other stoic heroes of ERB. La Ja despairs his always "laughing with words" and can't tell when he's serious or not. A very fun read.
Frederich Wilhelm Eric von Mendeldorf und von Horst (thankfully shortened to 'von Horst' or just 'von' for most of the book) was lost during the previous book and this is his tale.It's a typical pulp area story in that it's broken down into a number of short adventures with a cliff hanger at the end of each section.
Von Horst pursues the native girl La-Ja and in the process is captured several time by various tribes.
Of course he always escapes and lives to reach the happy end of the book.The title comes from the way von Horsts character changes through the book.
The story of Von Horst the German who went missing from the expedition in "Tarzan at the earth's core." The plot is typical Burrough's wandering around a savage world, fighting, remarkable creatures and even more remarkable coincidences.Although Von Horst certainly isn't as great a character as Tarzan or John Carter he's a pleasant enough hero and La-Ja makes a more than adequate heroine.
Some interesting new flora and fauna I particularly liked the Gorbuses.Well up to the earlier books in the Pellucidar series, although I understand the next one "Land Of Terror" is especially poor, I'll have to wait and see...
An interesting adventure story. Burroughs does have a talent for creating interesting situations, even if his prose can seem rather awkward and repetitive at times. His earlier books about Pellucidar have seemed to focus more on conquering the natives, but in this one since his protagonist is entirely alone and without his gun it tends to focus more on building friendships and finding common ground.
The Pelliucidar series is my favorite series written by Edgar Rice Burroughs. I used to walk to Grand Central and gather bottles along the side of the road. I would be able to collect enough bottles and turn them in for the deposit for the next book in this (and all of his series)series of books!
A solitary adventure of a heroic figure who is lost on pellucidar, and follows his love through many adventures.This is the 1st Pellucidar I read. It was so good, and I liked the character so much, that I was really disappointed in the 1st two Pellucidar books.
Back to the stone age is set in a land called Pellucidar, where Lieutenant Wilhelm Von Horst finds himself stuck with a tribe of black warriors who don’t even speak English.
Back to the stone was written in the 1940s so the language used in it is more diverse than most books but it is still very good.Von Horst, the protagonist, is a German soldier who somehow gets lost in Pellucidar.
Von Horst doesn't get why they have to be like this and Dangar understood, but everyone else didn't know why you would be friends or allies with people outside your tribe.
Back to the Stone AgeHaving read some of the Pellucidar adventures previously, I knew some of the content. This was a excellent adventure story with a significant love interest thrown in. Definitely recommend it.
In the previous Pellucidar novel by ERB, Lieutenant von Horst had been lost when the rest of his party left this land inside the hollow earth to return to the outside. This is his story and how he survived, in the best pulp story style. And he wins the love of La-ja, a girl from Sari.
Read this and the rest of the Pellucidar series in the 70s. Enjoyable!
Satisfying Hollow Earth adventure. Includes mammoths,thunder lizards, and cavemen on the warpath!
I probably read this originally when I was 13 or so when I read 17 Edgar Rice Burroughs bks back-to-back.
Now I've reread it & I've lowered that to a 2 star rating.
Burroughs' protagonist, Lieutenant von Horst, has a sense of humor in a world where his type of humor makes no sense to the general barbarity.
Burroughs uses the barbarity of Pellucidar as a context in wch the protagonist's ethics can shine forth as desirable.
Von works counter to this by making friends from various tribes - who, eventually, work for his own good as well.
Lite lit at its adolescent best. The epitome of pulp fiction. Man out of his element encounters danger, befriends native, allies with native to confront danger, rinse, repeat.Don't expect much in the way of characterization or back story beyond what was needed to tie it to other books in the series. That being said, if you don't get at least a small kick out of it, you probably don't need to be reading ERB or his pulp contemporaries to begin with.
If you have read any other book in the series then you know exactly what you will be getting.Another entertaining story from the bowels of the earth but in common with previous books the ending is far too sudden and very hurried.Still an enjoyable read.
False
Great reading!
Simplistic, childish and sometimes even ridiculous, this is a book recommendable only to certain audiences that prefer mindless action to meaning or literary significance.
I have the earlier Ace edition, with a far, far superior Frazetta cover. Good solid stuff.
Pellucidar Book 3
read some time in 1994
