https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21671.Mystic_River
Decades later, Dave Boyle, the kid who got into the car, is accused of killing the daughter of Jimmy Marcus, one of the other boys, and the third boy has grown up to be Sean Devine, the cop in charge of the case.
And if he didn't, can Sean find the real killer?Yeah, 2013 was supposed to be the year of Dennis Lehane for me.
While I knew I was supposed to assume Dave Boyle killed Katie Marcus, Lehane had me changing my opinion quite a few times.
Every adult human being has the chance to choose a personally favored path of life (considering it isn't predeterminated by illnesses, accidents etc.), but the general direction this path heads towards will usually already be marked during childhood: This might be the idea which provoked Dennis Lehane to write about the abysms of humanity and the fateful consequences one single deed might release to weigh heavily upon your conscience for the rest of your life - even if it is something as simple as not entering a certain car while you are a kid.Lehane might be more well-known because of the successful movie adaption with Leonardo DiCaprio and Ben Kingsley of his 2003 thriller Shutter Island, but when it comes to exploring human minds in their deepest psychological profundities, Mystic River is where the author truly shines.
Just before picking this book up - my first Lehane (it won't be my last) - I came across a quote by him illuminating the working-class, blue-collar nature of noir: In Greek tragedy, they fall from great heights.
In Mystic River, Lehane is shooting from both barrels; he intuitively knows who he is writing about and where -- the gritty, depressed, working-class neighborhoods of South Boston and the largely white, blue-collar families who live there.
Nineteen years old, sweet and non-threatening, a good friend, a loving sister, working part-time in her father's neighborhood corner store.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “We bury our sins here. We wash them clean.” Mystic River was another selection of mine for the (already completed) Read to Reel challenge at my local library. Although I’ve owned this book for years, for whatever reason it remained on the “hysterectomy shelves” untouched until the librarian forced my hand. Amazingly, I have also been able to avoid ever seeing the movie that was released 10+ years ago due to my dislike for Clint Eastw
Mystic River was another selection of mine for the (already completed) Read to Reel challenge at my local library.
Ahhhhh save it, Clint!The story here is about Sean, Jimmy and Dave.
Sean and Jimmy went home, Dave got in the car with the men and managed to find his way back four days later .
Mystic River is categorized as a “Mystery/Thriller” like all of the author’s other works, but that sells this novel so short.
A story like Mystic River can only end one way.If you like ‘em dark, look no further.
But I don’t know how." Sean Devine, now a detective and hauled back to his old neighbourhood to investigate the murder, old friends, old memories and lies occupy his thoughts, the truth just out of reach.'Sean felt a sudden lurch in the morning, a shifting in the softness of it.' And Dave Boyle, abducted as a child, both an intense sadness and madness, never far away, following him round hand in hand with a wretched betrayal.'And he’d grown up into this tall, smart, handsome guy with a voice you could listen to all night and eyes that seemed to peel you away in layers.' Top marks for an absolutely gripping plot, powerful and compelling characters, and delightful prose.
Three young boys.
Three young lives.
Silence.Many years later, a murder of someone's daughter.
Life had a story to tell.
Friendship broke out in different voices.
I'm not going to say much about this book.
The murder mystery denied me more sleep!
Friendship does not work that way.
Sad that the ending of the book interrupted our story.This should have been a buddie-read.
You do not read this book to escape reality.
In fact, you're thrown right into it with no way out, or Plan B, in sight.
A slice of life dished out in no uncertain terms.
We wash them clean.” I have now within a month listened to what I have heard from Goodreads friends are the three best novels from Dennis Lehane, Since We Fell, Shutter Island, and Mystic River.
A great day for a parade.” The parade functions just as a block party at the beginning of the book had served as a similar ritual moment of healing when Dave Boyle had come home from his nightmare abduction.
But as with the love of family and friends, is any social ritual enough to make up for the weight of the past?I loved this book and immediately re-ordered the film to see again.
Jimmy’s daughter Katie is murdered, Sean is assigned to the case, and Dave is one of the suspects – because he came back home, covered in somebody else’s blood, the night Katie died.As events proceed to their tragic conclusion, the three former friends realise that they can never outrun their karma.***Have you ever wondered how much randomness affects our lives?
Even though cause and effect is explicit only in the case of Dave, the author gives the impression that the lives of Sean and Jimmy as well have been impacted by that cursed afternoon; maybe even Jimmy’s life of crime (the karma of which came back, according to him) also had a start that day?
I read this masterpiece a while ago before I joined Goodreads and I've been contemplating posting a review because it's on the top of my favorites list.
But for a while I wasn't sure I could say anything that could do justice to this remarkable book.
It's one of the only books that I would consider near perfect and I would recommend it to anyone.
It's the novel that stuck with me the longest after reading it, and if I was forced to name a top favorite book, this would probably be it.
It is also an interesting portrait of the way some trauma keeps on rippling through our lives and makes us see and interpret things very differently than we would have if we didn’t have these ripples coursing through us constantly.Sean, Jimmy and Dave grow up in the 70’s, in a working-class area of Boston.
Dave makes his way back to his mother four days later, irreparably changed by this horrible event.
The way he describes people whose suffering has hardened them to the point where they simply cannot empathize anymore is chilling.An incredible book that shouldn’t be judged by where it’s shelved at the store: a dark and excellent novel.
Extremely well written. This author can do more for character development in one or two pages than others try in 30. There was not one moment of let down or disbelief. This is a very good, gritty, tough and tragic mystery. Has to be on a top 10 (of all time) list somewhere. ;-)
To find the murderer, Lehane follows and unravels threads more than twenty-five years old, introducing three young boys forming an unlikely friendship (the parents are from wide apart social classes).
Sean Devine is self-assured and a little arrogant, basking in his parents relative affluence; Jimmy Marcus is impulsive and dangerous, a product of a dysfunctional family; Dave Boyle is needy and fawning, annoying in his clinging to the other two boys.
Turns out Lehane grew up in a similar neighborhood of Boston as the one described in the novel, and that the place has as much to do with the shaping of the destinies of the three friends as the event from their childhood.
You didn’t belong. Don’t you get it? That’s all a neighborhood is: a place where people who belong together live. All others need not fuckin’ apply.  Clocking in five of his books over the past few weeks, I've begun to feel like I'm living in a sort of Dennis Lehane-land — an ineluctably dark place that is made all the more so by its striking resemblance to our own. While Sophocles and Aeschylus rarely used blue-collar neighborhoods of Boston as the backdrop of their works,* in  Mystic River
That’s all a neighborhood is: a place where people who belong together live.
Clocking in five of his books over the past few weeks, I've begun to feel like I'm living in a sort of Dennis Lehane-land — an ineluctably dark place that is made all the more so by its striking resemblance to our own.
All of that being said, Mystic River now ranks among my favorite books.
And, in a world such as ours, everyone needs a good shake from time to time.
Violence is a part of life, and the vicious cycles of abuse and crime are never ending.Jimmy, Sean, and Dave grew up together.
Katie, Jimmy's 19-year-old daughter and the person he loves most in the world, is found dead in the park with two gunshot wounds and also beaten severely.Who did this?
Or Jimmy, the ex-criminal father bent on revenge and twisted by grief?With suspicious characters and threads of possibilities strung through every chapter, Lehane weaves a wonderfully complex mystery that will leave you guessing until the very end.I liked the character development in this novel.
Just finished watching the movie and while it was remarkable , I felt the book was better.  Passenger on the USS Dave for life.
Mystic River starts out with three boys (Jimmy, Dave, and Sean) growing up in a suburban town near Boston.
Jimmy believes that his old friend Dave is the one who had murdered his daughter.
He spends his days alone listening to old recordings that he may have not heard clearly the first time he listen to it.Dennis lehane is the writer the author of the story mystic river.
Dennis Lehane has taught at serval different colleges about fiction story writing.This novel was so good that it was made into a movie in 2003.
I can't picture images in my head and I guess that's why I usually prefer books that follow a stream of consciousness.
It wasn't easy for me to read the descriptions but the book was also hard to read because Lehane writes really long sentences.
I wouldn't go so far as to say Lehane's writing style isn't my preferred style because I thoroughly enjoyed Shutter Island.
Apart from the writing, the book was alright.
The women are pretty much kept on the sidelines apart from one whiny one called Celeste who was quite insufferable.
I wouldn't recommend this book but I would read more by Dennis Lehane.
Sean is put in charge of the case, questioning Katie's friends, her boyfriend, and any others who saw her before she was murdered, Jimmy wanting to find the killer himself for vengeance, and Dave having a possible connection when he returns home covered in blood, and is questioned by his wife Celeste, Dave claims he killed a man who was trying to rob him, but he tells the cops and everyone else different stories, and none of them add up.
The story drew me in; I felt like I was there, mingling with the locals, I could feel the atmosphere of the city and I could feel the emotions and the lives of the characters in the story.
This book was just under 600 pages and there was not a single occasion where I became bored or felt the temptation to skim.
(Yeah, ya'll know what I'm talking about) A king in his streets internally being crucified on his own sword called Karma, a successful detective trying not to drown in his lost faith in humanity, and the boy...the boy who climbed in the back seat of a car that smelled like apples.
Dennis Lehane paints a vivid, beautifully romantic-yet-depressing portrait of various lives in an economically depressed (fictitious) Boston neighborhood on the cusp of gentrification.
Lehane's just a terrific, pretense-free writer.
His descriptions and dialogue are graceful and memorable and his characters -- the primary and peripheral -- are as nuanced and developed as can be expected in a 400 page novel that seeks to describe so many.My only regret is having seen the movie first.
Despite written physical descriptions to the contrary, I steadfastly maintained mental images of the characters as they appeared in the movie because they were, you know, better (Sean Penn as a blond?
“Happiness comes in moments, & then it's gone until the next time. Could be years. But sadness settles it.”   Another Lehane book under my belt and I enjoyed it immensely, the book was an elevated crime fiction book in which the character study and the amazing writing balanced well with the plot. Unlike  Shutter Island  which I highly love and probably one of his best works this one carried more depth & felt more than just your typical  “solving a crime story”  “Life isn't happily eve
The incident ended up affecting the majority of their lives and years later a tragedy will occur that will bring them together and open up a can of worms from the past.
I hated some of the characters to be honest and I was like…A character like Jimmy was so complicated and had so many problems that I was just pissed at his action but I asked myself if such an incident happened to me how would I react and that is what made this book for me.
Following years of work and five very good mystery novels featuring his signature detective duo of Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennero, Lehane released Mystic River – his strongest work to date.You can tell that this was a story that had been marinating in the author’s mind for years.
The three main characters of Dave, Sean and Jimmy are deeply developed and the overall structure of the story offered up many twists and turns with opportunities for great misdirection.
Like I said, heartbreaking.Mystic River is an exceptional read; an engrossing story of loss and grief and those left behind to pick up the pieces.
(Edit: actually, sod it, I'm giving it 5 stars.) This is my first book by Lehane and I'm very impressed.
Lehane is extremely good at characterization, and that set this book apart from all the other airport thrillers.
At the end, it's very revealing of Annabeth's character to see how quickly she dismissed Celeste just because they react to tragedy in different ways.
I think there's a lot of this in the book - how each character contributed to the story, their actions, right and wrong, woven so intricately into their community, and how it was like a domino effect.
Three young friends, all destined to have completely different lives as they age, but forever linked. The murder of one of their children sets off a chain of events that brings the former childhood friends back together in ways none of them wanted. The eventual identity of the murderer comes as a complete surprise in this extremely well written, suspenseful mystery loaded with atmosphere and unforgettable characters. A masterpiece.
All I can say is, believe all the hype. It's that good. 5 stars with no reservations.
Review of the audiobook narrated by Scott Brick.Mystic River is a satisfyingly complex police procedural with well developed characters and a gritty look at the seedy underbelly of Boston.
Lehane masterfully weaves this into the main plot of the book and it adds depth and realism to the characters.This is the fourth book I've listened to narrated by Scott Brick and I'm a little conflicted.
I do really like his delivery though so I found it enjoyable as long as I was paying close attention to who was supposed to be talking.Final verdict: 4.5 star story, 4 star narration, 4 stars overall (on the fence about rounding down though)
I originally read Mystic River back in 2011, but in order to prepare for a future Literary Gladiators discussion, I felt the need to refresh myself of this text and felt that now would be the perfect time to do so.
This time around, I certainly got a lot more out of this very well fleshed out, yet very haunting story about three childhood friends that break apart following a horrific incident, but are brought back together due to circumstances when they are adults.The childhood friends of note happen to be Jimmy Marcus, Sean Devine, and Dave Boyle.
Jimmy leads them into plenty of troubling situations and when Sean questions them, Jimmy and then Dave pressure him into going along.
That moment where Robin Williams explains Will Hunting to Professor Lambeau:...
In the end, you do not read this book for the mystery- I figured out "who did it" less than half way through the book.
Read it as a character study, read it for the relationships (the scene where Sean meets up in a bar with his dad and they talk about the day of the kidnapping is one of the best moments in a book I have ever read), read it (even) for the over-the-top man book that it is.
This is a first rate read for this genre.
Αυτό το βιβλίο δεν είναι ένα απλό αστυνομικό που ψάχνεις να βρεις τον δολοφόνο.
Ο Λεχέιν ξέρει να παίζει με το μυαλό του αναγνώστη.'Ενα περιστατικό που άγγιξε τρία αγόρια λίγο πριν απο την εφηβεία τους τα κυνηγάει ακόμα και μετά απο 25 χρόνια.
Ενα απο αυτά μπήκε σε ένα αμάξι και τίποτα πια δεν θα είναι το ίδιο.
Μέσα απο τους χαρακτήρες που έχει δημιουργήσει ο δεξιοτέχνης σε αυτό Λεχέιν, νιώθεις τον κάθε ένας τους ξεχωριστά.
Τα μηνύματα που σου περνά ο συγγραφέας είναι πολλά για ένα αστυνομικό βιβλίο και προσωπικά απόλαυσα την κάθε του αράδα.
I'm not a fan of Sean Penn, so I never even wanted to see this movie, and didn't even know that there was a book until after I'd read Lehane's other book Shutter Island, which I really enjoyed.
I think that this was a pretty good story, but it wasn't really as gut-wrenching or as horrifying as I'd expected it to be, knowing that it was about the murder of the daughter of one of the main characters.
I couldn't really identify with any of the characters, and in a story like this, one that deals with child abduction, molestation, murder, apathy, guilt and grief, that is crucial.
