https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/275343.Memoirs_of_Hecate_County
I had been looking forward to reading this book, mostly because Frederick Exley had sung its praises in his writing, and because it is Wilson's favorite among his works.
So given that, I have to see this mixed bag of fiction (and possibly fictionalized memoir) as something of a disappointment.This book contains 5 short stories - some of them fairly long ones, and a short novel.
The most interesting story in the bunch followed: "Ellen Terhune", about a man who goes to visit a female friend, and each time he visits her house, the clock has moved back another decade, and that decade's family situation is then presented to him.
5 stars for "The Princess With the Golden Hair," a cruelly realistic novella about the "doomed" relationship between a working-class woman and the upper-middle-class man who claims to love her and yet can't conceive of marrying her.
(I put the word "doomed" in quotation marks because this decidedly is not a story about fate or star-crossedness; rather, it's a story about socioeconomic pressures and the people who lack the means or the moral courage to stand up to them.) Despite the explicit descriptions of female anatomy that once made this book infamous, "The Princess With the Golden Hair" ultimately has less to do with sexuality than with the flint-hard realities of modern American economics.3-4 stars each for "The Man Who Shot Snapping Turtles" and "Ellen Terhune," two stomach-droppingly effective tales of the supernatural.
Read two of the stories in this book, then had enough.
The main and longest story, "The princess with the golden hair", is a lot of lenghthy intellectualistic high-brow prattle which does not rise above the level of the cheapest three-penny novel.
Mr. Wilson here reveals himself as a man very much in love with himself and a paragon of the pseudo-intellectual "chattering class" that is a product of Old-World classical education.
Left me with a feeling of intense gratitude towards those scientists/technicians/engineers/entrepreneurs/businessmen who have rendered true contributions to our quality of life and understanding of everything around us.
Edmund Wilson considers this his favorite book...well, no more Edmund Wilson for me.
This is a fairly enjoyable, interesting read.
First published in 1946, it is one of those rather intriguing works that deal with literature, art, politics, and sexual mores in a manner where all of these things influence each other.
This is a book where characters talk about Marxism, and the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, and the reading of the Daily Worker, where the central character tries to determine which woman he most desires, based on socioeconomics rather than actual love.
It provided interesting insights into the intellectual world of the mid-to-late 1940's.

The main issue with this book is that there is a perfectly terrific novella stuffed in the middle of several increasingly insane short stories.
I sort of wish the book was just the novella and his shorter works had been put somewhere else.
The narrator is 'unknowable' and thus the short stories could all be narrated by him or by different people; either way they're all douche lords.
Generally the book left me feeling that I had to read a whole lot of not-so-terrific drivel to get to the good part (the novella).
Also did this chap hang out with Ayn Rand?
I read this to get some Edmund Wilson under my belt, and because I understood this was his favorite work. In this series of almost unlinked novelettes, I know it was "The Princess with the Golden Hair" that got all the attention at the time and led to a court ruling that the work was obscene, but I hardly remember that piece at all. The one that stuck with me was the drawing-room tension of "The Man Who Shot Snapping Turtles." Wilson's stories may be classics, but they're also very pessimistic and misanthropic much of the time.
Bogged down a bit towards the end with six or so pages of solid French (a fine language, but a bit pretentious as a literary device); a bit like running into Tolstoy's 25-page essay on the motive force of history at the end of War and Peace. Otherwise, pretty darn good.
A risque classic from the 1930's that, despite some bright spots here and there, did not live up to its billing. Overheated and over-rated.
This may have been Wilson's favorite among his own books, but it wouldn't be mine. Sometimes I think I'm a bit too trusting of what NYReview Books brings out.
I first became aware that this was a "banned book" when I came across the following advertisement in the back of the 1964 Signet paperback of The Group: MEMOIRS OF HECATE COUNTY by Edmund WilsonSix stories present the manners and morals of U.S. suburban life in unsparingly satirical prose by one of America's foremost critics.
Several other shifts back-and-forth in time and place occur which may or may not be imaginary, but I am fairly certain that the narrator actually does visit the Southwestern US with Jo on the book's final page.With these formidable obstacles to the reader's progress to the end of the book, Wilson seems to be saying: Did you think those Philistines I excoriated in the previous story were someone in another state, or perhaps your neighbors who have the collection of garden gnomes?
I read the longest piece in this book, the novella "The Princess with the Golden Hair," after I read that it had been banned in New York upon publication in 1946.
By the end of this particular work, those things became clearer to me.The novella is vivid and the descriptions of the settings in New York and its then-rural suburbs are immersive.
So, because of the vivid settings and the lively female character and relationship, I enjoyed reading this story more than I thought I was going to at the outset.I had run across Edmund Wilson as a "character" in the unexpurgated diary of Anais Nin titled "Mirage," in which Nin decides she really dislikes this dude.
A collection of short stories dusted with ghosts, devils, and the stultifying ambience of 1930s upstate New York.
Most of the stories in Memoirs of Hecate County are arranged along the same design: a banal situation is touched by the supernatural, dread begins to seep through the story, and an eerie climax recapitulates the protagonist's central banal dilemma.
A woman begins receding through time to justify her birth; a demon leaps in and out of unsuspecting heads; the devil strikes a bargain with a book publisher.
Once you've read one of these stories, you know how the rest will go; the central mainspring is always the same.
I found an old paperback copy at a flea market in Amsterdam. I was backpacking and couldn't really carry many books so I was happy when I found something in English that looked portable and interesting. I remember cloudy falls days spent reading this collection of short stories in Europe's greatest cities. I eventually left it in a take-one-leave-one library in a hostel in Essaouira, Morocco. When I got back to the U.S. promptly purchased a new copy.
Loved it, even the eleven-page philosophical cocktail-party monologue in French that was not only too difficult for me to read in French, but which I probably would not have understood had it been in English.
An insightful study of American culture, class, and personality. It is no wonder Trump is the president.
An author who was allowed to use too many words. Ugh
...he had been spurred by no need to make money.-The only things that were fresh in the streets were the headlines--new words--on the newsstands, and most of these announced dismal events.-They didn't worry about their social position because the life that an artist leads is outside all the social positions.
The artist makes his own position, which is about the nearest thing you can get to being above the classes.-He really needs somebody to hold his hand!-...it was all on the kindergarten level.
And then the last two stories, which are kind of voice of experience, are funny and strange-- the first, the Millhollands story, is a satire of publishing, and also wildly creative about working this weird motif of Satanic temptation.
It's a great story, with great comic energy, but I feel like the ending doesn't quite work for me.
It's an open question, I guess, but it adds a level of complexity to the book that is odd to slip in at this weird stage of the book-- and it might be too ambitious of a change at the late stage in the book.There are lots and lots of ways this book self-consciously locates itself amidst the mainstream of the American lit canon.
I'd locate it between Henry and M.R. James's ghost stories - perhaps closer to Henry.
The central piece, "The Princess with the Golden Hair", is quite objectionable in the chauvinism of its narrator and its predictability, but it's soaked in a weird sexual fever (it was banned for a while) that makes you keep reading.
He is as good an Old Nick as I've read.[return][return]On the other hand, there is not much depth to these stories.
If you don't care for the milieu, or Wilson's or the narrator's style, you will probably detest them.
I must read some of his non-fiction.
There's some clunkiness and some moments when it feels as if Wilson has slipped from author to critic, but this collection of stories, tied together by a shared narrator and setting, are totally worthwhile for their clarity and wisdom.
For example:Ralph made the money in advertizing -- that is, in hiring himself out to glorify whatever the industrialists were hoping to manufacture with profit; and Imogen [wife] spent the money on domestic settings and panoramas of travel abroad that made it possible for her always to fancy, and for Ralph part of the time to pretend, that their situation was other than it was.
Put it in the bank for the next offensively materialistic instagram post you see!
I love Wilson's ability to draw you into his world, and several of the other stories in the book did that, but this piece annoyed me.
It felt like the art historian analyzing one of his paintings.I had hoped to get insight into the Imogen Loomis character since she was modeled on Elizabeth Waugh, who had written a children's book that my great aunt Flora Nash Demuth had illustrated.
(Flora and her husband had bought a "little estate" in nearby Kent, CT that they named "On the Rocks." Sounded like fun times to me!) Oh well, maybe Elizabeth wasn't much more than the superficial character Wilson describes.
I am really enjoying this book.
What struck me the most about it was that I could get a real sense of the limitations both men and women faced regarding gender issues during the time period.
I found the male point of view of this book very interesting and I was impressed by the author's exploration of the men and the issues they faced with women and class.
I found some of his writing (particularily in the golden hair story) particularily alternating astute, poignant, and insightful regarding roles of women back in the day.
I found something tragic in the stories.
A series of vignettes about New Yorkers in a nearby vacation county.
As I remember, Hecate county is fictional, probably a stand-in for the Hamptons.
The stories are unconnected but the tone and his writing provide the glue.
The story of the man's affair with the young, lower-class woman is the best of them.
This must have been what got him in trouble with the censors.
His writing about sexuality is so frank that you get confused about what era the writing came from.
It's not stilted or nasty or overly pushed to cause scandal.
It's so honest, you almost don't notice it.
Only 3 of the 6 stories deserve praise. One of the 6, more of a novella really, "Princess with the Golden Hair" was pretty engrossing. "The Man Who Shot at Snapping Turtles" and "Glimpses of Wilbur Flick" were above average as well. Didn't enjoy the others. And watch out, the last story contains a good bit of untranslated French.
Just finished The Princess with the Golden Hair. Weird ending. At present I will be glad to finish the book.Finished the book finally. Guess i missed something because I hated the book. Only thing that made sense was Updike's review which did make me think I HAD missed something. Guess I should have looked at the book during the time it was written and not by today's standards.
These stories are frighteningly familiar. The first time I read them, I felt like I was remembering stories that I had heard before. I don't know why. They aren't nearly as erotic as the cover art would have you think.
the guy at avalon bookstore looked at me funny when i asked for this. i'd read wilson's "the wound and the bow" for class. this is what you might get if fitzgerald wrote like dickens. there is a lot going on here, but also a good story about shooting snapping turtles.
The Princess with the Golden Hair is the best part of this collection.
great short stories of the south east and NYC. originally banned
