https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/186926.The_Street
Don't talk to me about Germans. They're only doing the same thing in Europe that's been done in this country since the time it started. Since a grand jury ruled that Daniel Pantaleo should not be indicted for the murder of Eric Garner, a murder committed via an unlawful chokehold that was deemed a homicide and published as a Youtube video a day later, I've been doing some reconfiguring with the help of myriad Tumblr posts cause fuck mainstream media. I'll pay heed instead to a post describing t
I'll pay heed instead to a post describing the systematic invalidation of the concept of collective trauma suffered by black people as a result of racism by a high school teacher; a teacher who went on right after to academically delight in the woeful tale of a white boy traumatized by his mother killing a chicken in front of him.
I may perhaps be mislabeling this piece as "Dickensian" because it's been a long time since I last read him and the author doesn't rhapsodize or stereotype or flounder around for the Redemption of the Little White Straight Man, but what I remember most about his reputation is he being a crusader for the poor.
But at twenty-nine fifty ($29.50) a month at least she would be getting her eight (8) year old away from Pop’s place.The Street was a big change for Lutie who had at one time had her own house with her husband Jim. But things did not work out when Lutie became the sole provider for the family.
One of the persons that notices her was Boots Smith, another is Old Man Junto, “a nice white gentleman.” Boots tell Lutie she can make money singing with his band.
In the meantime, Old Man Junto had summoned Boots and told him he wanted Lutie for himself and not to offer her a salary.
From these words, the real portrait of a hard-working segment of women rarely illuminated emerges, and if you've ever spent a few years in inner-city New York, huddled in a small apartment, fearful of spending too much time on the street, you understand Lutie's despair over her son.
Yet, whereas Nabokov does it simply because he can, in The Street it serves to underline the message, and I would say message rather than plot because Petry was a political writer and this novel certainly is that, besides being a wonderful piece of fiction.
In Petry’s novel the characters are not simply good or bad, they are just people acting according to the natural, logical consequences of their conditions, the result of genocidal economics in action.
Yet even the character Junto, who comes to embody the crudest kind of predatory capitalism, much in the way Ben Harrison embodies dickface trolling, is still a pawn in the social/economic conditions of which he is largely unaware.
They also take the jobs - one of the voices Petry takes on is that of a disinterested, lazy white teacher who works in a Harlem school, full of hate for her charges, and so ashamed to work in such poor conditions that she keeps her workplace secret.
Simple: white supremacist capitalist patriarchy.To broaden the perspective, the other main characters include the superintendant of the building Lutie moves into, who has become malevolent and obsessive from spending too much time living in cellars, and a middle aged domestic service worker who, now that she has found a way of living rent-free, will do almost anything to maintain the situation.
She and her 8 year old son Bub wind up living in the only apartment she can afford on 116th Street in Harlem.
Every step Ludie takes to pull herself up is thwarted by her color, her lack of money and by men who surround her like a pack of dogs slobbering over their prey.
I listened to the audio book and the narrator Shayna Small was excellent, however some idiot producer decided that it would be a good idea to insert random and poorly-executed sound effects like doors slamming, dogs snoring, doorbells, trains etc.
So please don't read this unless you're going to like it!The Street is Ann Petry's 1946 novel about single mother Lutie Johnson's efforts to raise her son and escape poverty while living on 116h Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues in Harlem.
The characters make decisions and behave in ways that are often strange, morally questionable, or undoubtably wrong, but the author successfully makes them so human that we understand their reasoning and can't fully judge them.The Street suffered from two major problems: one, social novel syndrome, by which I mean that Petry's obvious efforts to show the effects of racism and injustice on individuals' lives did often overwhelm the story and get too annoyingly obvious.
What an ending! I didn’t see it coming, but it did feel like Lutie Johnson (the main character) was teetering on the edge since page one and I guess they pushed her too many times. I feel like The Street relates so much so to the here and now. It’s 70 years later and has many things changed? Not really. This book was an excercise in how not to lose your mind; but it’s so much more than that. It’s about how microaggressions and racism can push a woman to the extreme ends of sanity and rage.
"The street" itself is actually one of the novel's main characters, taking on a life of its own throughout the story.
This book is a very gritty and unapologetic look at the Harlem ghetto of the 1940s, and I think one of the most revealing scenes (meaning one that really struck me) in this novel was that in which the Harlem schoolteacher's thoughts were laid bare.
The writing is most excellent; the reader can actually envision the streets filled with rubbish, the squalidness of the apartments, and can feel the total anguish that Lutie felt throughout the story.
This book was published over 60 ago. 60 years ago, a single black mother in Harlem had the same exact heartaches that a single black mother in the United States is having right now. We have all been affected by "The Street" in some way, shape, or form and the fact that this physical and literal "street" still exist is just.....well it's sad. This story is so real, so tragically beautiful, so humbling....I'm really at a loss for words.
This booked moved patiently and by the end I was floored. GREAT BOOK!
Review soon.
She wrote a small note in the insert of the book that says she read this book when she was 16 (she is now 78) because she grew up in Harlem near 116th street where this story takes place.
In her case, her beauty worked against her causing jealousy among the women (white and black alike) and unhealthy and dangerous obsessions among the men of all races.
Lutie is unable to make ends meet and live the quality life that she sees her white counterparts living.
The book has a very sad ending that I won't give away in case you want to read it.
Ann Petry's The Street bears considerable resemblance to Wright's Native Son or Ellison's Invisible Man. All three tell a tale of a young black person and their struggle to achieve more.
The Street stands apart from the other two because Petry's story is so much more than a story of ethnicity; it's equally a tale about the struggles of women, and more so it's the sad plight of anyone who lives in poverty.
Ellison wrote masterful scenes and Wright created a voice impossible to forget, but Petry succeeded writing a story that was immensely universal.The Street is the story of Lutie Johnson.
Ann Petry's 1946 Harlem classic is the book I wish A Tree Grows in Brooklyn was.
Both are about poor folks, and both are wonderfully geographically specific, but Tree Grows is terribly sentimental, and The Street is...not.
The lady version of Native Son wouldn't be the worst way to describe it."The men stood around and the women worked," is Petry's thesis.
She's doing a good enough job showing that she could maybe have done away with a little bit of the telling.
She was raised sheltered from most of the disadvantages other black people in the United States had to experience due to the color of their skin.Now, I'll quote from Wiki directly:"Petry had a strong family foundation with well-traveled uncles, who had many stories to tell her when coming home; her father, who overcame racial obstacles, opened a pharmacy in the small town; and her mother and aunts set a strong example: Petry, interviewed by the Washington Post in 1992, says about her tough female family members that “it never occurred to them that there were things they couldn’t do because they were women.”If our society could purge ourselves of racism and sexism, everyone would have the opportunity to enrich the world instead of having to spend their lives struggling under hate and prejudice.
https://www.instagram.com/p/BdYSc3AFd...
It's just that with the social commentary books I've read, I almost always encounter one (or more of the following) problems that make it impossible for me to rate the book highly: 1) The integrity of the characters is destroyed by the fact the author values delivering the message more highly than maintaining the aliveness of the characters 2) The message and observations are now quite dated, even if they might have been poignant at the time of publication 3) The author is commenting from a place of privilege; i.e. rich straight white man railing about the injustice of society (well, yes, but should we be amplifying their voice over others?) The Street managed to avoid all of these traps.
This is the story of Lutie Johnson and her son Bub. They are African Americans living in Harlem, probably sometime in the forties.
The characters in this story were extremely well drawn, to the point that you, as the reader, could feel that you were those people and lived where they lived and could smell the street and see the garbage and corruption.Lutie worked and studied very hard in order to try to pull them up out of poverty, but life was against her.
African American men were refused jobs that paid a decent wage and the women had to work at menial jobs to support them.
Check out my thoughts by clicking the link belowhttps://youtu.be/FuiWeT6pJjwI have conflicting thoughts on this book. It was beautifully written. The story is just so heartbreaking.A few days have passed and my mind is still blown! I wish there was more.....This book was just REAL life. That's the only way I can properly phrase it.
Lutie Johnson and the cast of characters surrounding her on 116th street in Harlem each experience the hazardous effects of the cycle: young people marry to escape their broken childhood environments; the husbands are unable to find work, forcing the wives to become the breadwinners via degrading service jobs; the husbands, no longer to provide for their families seek validation elsewhere, usually by way of alcohol and/or extramarital affairs; the couples separate, leaving the wives to raise the children and therefore triggering another revolution of the cycle.
The tragedy of The Street is found in Lutie’s failure to end the cycle for her beloved eight-year-old son Bub, despite her hard-fought attempt.One of Petry’s greatest achievements in this novel is her success in portraying each character as an individual; there are no caricatures in The Street.
The Street, by Ann Petry, is one of my all-time favorite books.
It's a pretty dated image, all 1970s font, but something about that book just kept my attention.Years later, when the books for prisoners program had matured into a public policy organization advocating for the building of fewer prisons, and more sound policies on everything from mandatory minimums to parole revocations, I was graduating from college and offered a job.
After my work-study student and I were thouroughly exhausted, The Street was still there.It was around this time that I heard, on the local radio station where I was a DJ for many years, a piece on Ann Petry, whom I knew to be author of The Street.
I hesitate to give this 5 stars because of all the 5-star ratings I've been doling out recently, but I can't help myself—it's stuck with me for the past few days since I've finished the book and I'm still thinking about the ending...Petry is obviously writing with a purpose here—it's a novel about a poor, black, single mother in Harlem and was published in 1946—but she also succeeds in crafting a heart-wrenching story that does not suffer at the hands of her message.Lutie Johnson may be the protagonist here, but the busiest character in the novel is 116th Street, itself.
Well written, gripping, and dismal, 'The Street' presents the reader with a disturbing story of a woman struggling in Harlem to raise her son alone, on a street populated with poor Blacks.
Ann Petry proved herself as such a talented writer, that she became the first African American woman to sell a million copies of a novel with 'The Street'.
Petry succeeded in presenting a realistic portrayal of the effects of poverty to African Americans in the 40's within the poor neighborhoods in New York, especially to single Black mothers.
I would suggest this novel to anyone who wants a good read.
"And it wasn't just this city. It was any city where they set up a line and say black folks stay on this side and white folks on this side, so that the black folks were crammed on top of each other - jammed and packed and forced into the smallest possible space until they were completely cut off from light and air. It was any place where the women had to work to support the families because the men couldn't get jobs and the men got bored and pulled out and the kids were left without proper home
Take this book, which takes place in 1944 in Harlem - the great migration post-slavery, from the South to the North, is going on, and black people coming to the North are forced to live in the shittiest neighborhoods and face pervasive everyday racism and have great difficulty finding jobs.
Unlike what happens to people from other backgrounds coming to the cities, the institutionalized practice of redlining and segregation based on appearances lasts for generations - you can't assimilate if your skin color means you can't get loans, live in neighborhoods, etc.
It rattled the tops of garbage cans, sucked window shades out through the top of opened windows and set them flapping back against the windows; and it drove most of the people off the street in the block between Seventh and Eighth Avenues except for a few hurried pedestrians who bent double in an effort to offer the least possible exposed surface to its violent assault.[…:] Fingering its way along the curb, the wind set the bits of paper to dancing high in the air,…What I found so overwhelming was the hopelessness of it all.
The idea behind the plot -- how "the street" in poor and predominantly black neighborhoods makes a victim of almost everyone -- is well-handled.
But the book falls apart at the end as does Lutie.
For most of the book, Lutie seems to be a fairly intelligent and competent young woman but in the last 50 pages she makes two mind-blowing and life-altering decisions.
Of course, those decisions set up the tragic ending.
"The Street" is a classic and deserves that status for its ability to portray reality, particularly at a time when so much of black urban life was a mystery to white America.
The ending of this novel is perhaps the most heartbreaking thing you'll ever read.
However, Petry is masterful in her ability to understand the motivations of even the most odious characters.
She also does a brilliant job of trapping the reader in the same way she traps Lutie Johnson in her life, through no fault of her own.
I've taught this novel several times, and although students are usually unhappy with the ending, they eventually have to admit that there's no other ending that makes any sense.
The world that Lutie inhabits--The Street--is cruel and uncaring.
There are no happy endings here.
My review: https://theblankgarden.com/2017/02/22...
Beautiful writing, detailed characterisations and a story that is engrossing. Loved it!
