https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835440.Before_Lunch
A delightful read.Told with wit and charm.If you ever need cheering up this one is perfect.Who will end up with who I wonder?I loved it!
2.5My least favorite of the Thirkells I've read thus far, and indeed I found most of the book crushingly boring. It had some charm (I liked the youthful composer of modern music so good naturedly playing Gilbert and Sullivan to old Lord Bond by the hour), but really, so little happened, even by Thirkell's standards. Also, I was further disgruntled on coming on the goodreads to rate the book, to see that I inadvertently jumped two books ahead in the (admittedly, rather loose) series. This is not this book's fault, but then who ever said life was fair.
Mrs. Stoner and her grown step-children, Denis and Daphne have come to spend the summer with Mrs. Stoner's brother, Mrs. Middleton.
Denis also befriends Mrs. Middleton, whom he believes to be long-suffering and also becomes close with Lord Bond, who IS long-suffering.
Daphne makes new friends too: Mr. Cameron, the law partner of Mr. Middleton and C.W., the son of Lord and Lady Bond.
The social satire of the novel centers around Mr. Middleton and isn't laugh out loud funny, but it is the sort of thing Jane Austen would have picked up on and made fun of in her novels.
I wasn't crazy about the way she smothered Denis though she did what she felt was right.
Poor Mrs Middleton....
Yes. It is extraordinary how many things can happen before lunch.This book had/was:--> British charm--> witty dialogues--> wise, observant eye of Angela Thirkell--> smart and funny satire of British society living in countryside--> perfectly chosen and described characters--> unusual, original love stories (I mean, Mrs. Thirkell connected people who most writers wouldn't have connected).These (mentioned above) things you can find in her other books.
That they had an ordinary life.In "Before lunch" I loved especially:--> young Bond's witty tongue,--> the way Daphne's confidence and character stability crumbled because of love,--> relationship between Mrs. and Mr. Middleton and between Mrs. Middleton and Denis,--> the bittersweet note that was hanging in the story.I admit also that there was (as for me) a bit too much talking about cows, arrangements for the meeting and food.
Secondly, the book did not keep my interest most of the way through.
It is a little disconcerting to me how similar all 4 of the books I have read by her have been.
Before Lunch features many mentions and brief appearances of several characters from the other 2 novels I have read by her.
I still had some chuckles over Thirkell's wry observations and witty turns of phrase, but I think I am going to take a little break from her for awhile.
Too many books, so little time, and all that.
Неожиданно глубокий роман. Пожалуй, пока что наиболее _стоящий_ из всех, что я у нее читала. Бонусом, как всегда у Тиркелл, эпизодически возникают герои предыдущих книг, и мы узнаем, как у них дела.
Most novels require a fair amount of plot, I think, and some are very lacking.
In her novels not much happens, slowly, with humor and insight and great delight.Take this book, for instance.
And I get a kick out of books where the men fall hopelessly in love but the women are often more interested in livestock, or dogs, or gardening.
Thirkell clearly realized that marriage isn't all happiness and love isn't without sadness, disappointment or pain.
There's a lovely balance of description and plot, humor and pathos.
Mr. Middleton, a loquacious architect who likes to imagine himself a country squire in the weekend, is having his widowed sister and her two stepchildren Daphne and Denis as renters in the neighboring house.
Before long, all of them are deeply involved in county business, especially the vexing question of some upstart planning to build houses on a beloved field.
Denis, fragile, artistic, perhaps a little overprotected by his doting step-mother, develops an attachment to the quiet Mrs. Middleton, even though nothing is ever said between them.
Daphne gets briefly engaged to the wrong man, the imperious Lady Bond is subtly outmanoeuvered, and Denis gets to realize a professional dream.
Not my favourite Thirkell, but still sweet and funny. I love Daphne and Cedric, Denis, Lilian, Cameron, even Lady Bond. But poor Catherine Middleton! (Never thought I'd ever write those words! ;))
These Carol & Graf reprints had much better editing than the more recent editions.
4.5* Wanda McCaddon does a marvelous narration.
Alister Cameron is a much older man who nonetheless finds himself completely taken by Daphne.
The fact that he is actually closer to her own age and that they are very sympathetic friends has nothing to do with it.Then there is Denis, a sickly young man with musical talent and a dream of writing a new ballet, but no money to produce it.
Denis also develops a friendship with Mrs. Middleton, the weary but sympathetic wife of his stepmother's brother.
Also the young, idealistic man who respectfully worships from afar an older, unattainable woman.
Troppo carini questi romanzi della Thirkell, ambientati in deliziose contee inglesi, ricchi di personaggi eccentrici, pittoreschi, british fino sl midollo, vivaci e comiche schermaglie verbali, vicende amorose. Insomma letture godibilissime per chi ama calarsi in atmosfere tipicamente inglesi ed estraniarsi un po' dalla realtà...
One of the best, and saddest Angela Thirkell's. A bit of a midlife crisis, lots of stiff upper lip. And gentle humor. And that special brand of rather resigned love. This time the author goes just a bit deeper and perhaps reveals a little more about herself than in any other of her books.
This entry in Thirkell's Barsetshire series is more bittersweet than the previous ones...
I think I'm over Angela Thirkell now. Her books are formulaic, but I've found them funny up till now. This one is just tedious with a rather tiresome cast of characters. Even Daphne is just a pale shadow compared to the awesome Lydia, my favourite of all Thirkell's characters. It had its amusing moments, but I soon lost interest in who was going to marry who and how, and only finished it for completeness. If you haven't read any Thirkell, try High Rising or Wild Strawberries, two of her best.
Not one of my favourites the first time I read it, but I appreciated it a very great deal on this reread, especially (view spoiler)[the quiet way in which Denis and Catherine's emotions were handled -- that they fell in love with each other and decided not to have a romance, and never really discussed it directly, just enough to be clear with themselves and each other.
If there had been a murder, and Angela Thirkell had been Agatha Christie, then no doubt I would have enjoyed this more. A mediocre, country-house-set, pre-WW2 comedy, somewhat akin to Wodehouse. If you like stereotypes, plot progression that seems interminably slow without giving you much pertinent detail, and nearly every unwed character pairing up for marital bliss by the last page, then read away. For me, it will be my one venture into this dull and dated series. Even the cows didn't save it for me.
* 1000 novels everyone must read: the definitive list: ComedySelected by the Guardian's Review team and a panel of expert judges, this list includes only novels – no memoirs, no short stories, no long poems – from any decade and in any language. Originally published in thematic supplements – love, crime, comedy, family and self, state of the nation, science fiction and fantasy, war and travel – they appear here for the first time.
This one has a lot more of the love stuff (including calf love) and a little less story outside the love angles. It does contain the story of Lord Bond and Pooker's Piece, which is referred to (in passing) in several of the other books. I didn't enjoy it as much as some of the others, because a lot of the humor is based on tiresome people's foibles, rather than being inherently funny. It is still an entertaining book, as they all are!
In the beginning, you make a mental list of all the single characters and figure out who should wind up with whom. Then you follow them through their schedule of social events, where they meet and mingle with a set of funny characters, waiting to see whether they are going to get engaged to the right person by the end of the book. Fun, fun, fun.
Not my favourite of the series but still a fun and amusing comedy of manners and society in inter war England. There's the reappearance of a few old friends from previous Barsetshire novels as well as a few new ones. I particularly enjoyed the state of warfare between Lord and his butler and the complicated tangle of relationships between step-children and their relatives and relatives friends.
I read this for my first ever book group and I did really enjoy it. It reminded me of Blandings by Wodehouse a little and the rural pre WW2 setting was like the Cazalets. It had romance, agricultural fairs and committee meetings, who could ask for more. I hope I like the next book at book group as much :)
This was just a middling Thirkell novel for me. I loved the characters (as usual), and enjoyed seeing the return of many previous Thirkell characters, but something was lacking in the plot and story for me!
if you're old fashioned, and need something reassuring to read in a stormy time, I recommend Angela Thirkell. Almost like heaven as described by the Talking Heads: nothing, nothing every happens. I love it.
Not admitting their true feelings leads to confusion and anguish for young and old alike. Getting engaged to the wrong person could have been disastrous for the spirited Daphne, but all turns out right in the end.
Probably the third time I've read this one. I read Thirkell to live in her world of High Risings, Winter Overcoates and Pomfret Madrigal. Her bullying Ladies and her sensitive loving long suffering wives. I see myself in all of them, well, except possibly Mr. Middleton, a huge bag of wind.
Slightly more of a chore to get through than the previous instalments, but charming nonetheless. Unusually for these books it ends on a slightly sour note as well. Poor Mrs Middleton. Her suffering is equal to that of Charlotte Lucas I think.
Really like Angela Thirkell and wish I could find more of her books. British country life without the murder mystery.
