https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5872.Regeneration
“If you were born in a country or at a time not only when nobody comes to kill your wife and your children, but also nobody comes to ask you to kill the wives and children of others, then render thanks to God and go in peace. But always keep this thought in mind: you might be luckier than I, but you’re not a better person.”-Jonathan Littell, The Kindly Ones This is war. This is not honor. This is not glory. This is not right. This is not just. This is not a game played with lives and loves and
This is the result of masculinity bred on stories of adventure and physical expertise, on shutting up and slimming down the emotions into unfeeling heroics and righteous fury, on boyhood dreams of being 'brave', let loose in comradeship in the face of corpses spit up in your face and death walking the grounds and laughing at your pitiful attempts to cope and spurring you on to love, but not too much.
Let us have those who love war be the ones to come to grips with the futility of rational thought.
It fails to present any sort of meaningful, cogent philosophical statement aside from "War Sucks".As a matter of fact, the only thing it has succeeded at is convincing me that the judges for the Booker Prize select its winners by lottery, without actually having read more than a few paragraphs of each title.The book begins promisingly enough, with a letter written by Siegfried Sassoon denouncing the war, the introduction of Dr. Rivers, and Siegfried's arrival at the hospital.
Pat Barker is ultimately as ignorant as any civilian in this book and proves this with her bludgeon-like attempts at characterization.The love interest for Billy Prior, Sarah, seems more like Barker's slim justification for writing the novel than an actual character.
I appreciated the in-depth character study of William Rivers, the psychologist treating shell shock victims at Craiglockhart War Hospital.
At noon on November 11, an hour into the celebration [of the peace accord], Owen’s mother received the black-bordered War Office telegram telling her that, a week earlier, her son had been killed in action.The background story of W.H.R. Rivers is outlined in a great article in Wikipedia.
Thus I find myself doing what Carol Ann Duffy did with the most famous Wilfred Owen poem: spinning history backwards.The Last Post, by Carol Ann Duffy:"In all my dreams, before my helpless sight,He plunges at me, guttering, choking droning.If poetry could tell it backwards, true, beginthat moment shrapnel scythed you to the stinking mud...but you get up amazed, watch bled bad bloodrun upwards from the slime into its wounds;see lines and lines of British boys rewindback to their trenches, kiss the photographs from home -mothers, sweethearts, sisters, younger brothersnot entering the story nowto die and die and dieDulce - No - Decorum - No - Pro patria moriYou walk away.You walk away; drop your gun (fixed bayonet)like all your mates do too -Harry, Tommy, Wilfred, Bert -and light a cigarette.There's coffee in the square,warm French breadand all those thousands deadare shaking dried mud from their hairand queuing up for home.
Rating: 5* of fiveThe Publisher Says: Regeneration, one in Pat Barker's series of novels confronting the psychological effects of World War I, focuses on treatment methods during the war and the story of a decorated English officer sent to a military hospital after publicly declaring he will no longer fight.
And we all know that it is Right!Ugh. But blessedly, the Great War began a process of (wrenching, painful) psychic change that the Ruling Elite has been resisting, beating back, discrediting at every opportunity, and with increasing success, for 95 years:It was...
I have found all of Pat Barker's books that I have read fascinating, and I especially like the Regeneration trilogy.
(Regeneration, The Eye In The Door, The Ghost Road) These novels, about the psychological toll that World War I exacted on some of its (at least temporary) survivors, are wrenching.
I've always been fascinated by World War I, especially from the English perspective.
.Previous review: Prodigal Summer KingsolverRandom review: Cuz: The Life and Times of Michael ANext review: Resurrection TolstoyPrevious library review: WeaveworldNext library review: The Eye in the Door
It did explore some themes that, even now, people would find difficult to speak about, but often it felt slightly brushed aside in favour of dropping the name of another literary figure.I feel the characters were-although for the most part based on real-life people-rather flat and dull.
I cannot comment on how accurate any portrayals of the WWI poets were, but that matters little since I don't feel like I learnt all that much about them, in any case.The one character whom I found had developed substantially during the novel was Rivers, the psychiatrist treating the mentally war-wounded.
Everyone SangEveryone suddenly burst out singing;And I was filled with such delightAs prisoned birds must find in freedom,Winging wildly across the whiteOrchards and dark-green fields; on--on--and out of sight.Everyone's voice was suddenly lifted;And beauty came like the setting sun:My heart was shaken with tears; and horrorDrifted away ...
Slowly, Rivers begins to question what he is doing, the quandary of regenerating these damaged young men merely in order to send them back to feed the unleashed dogs of war.
Are men allowed to admit to feelings of grief, loss, love for their comrades?
I am not protesting against the conduct of the war, but against the political errors and insincerities for which the fighting men are being sacrificed.On behalf of those who are suffering now, I make this protest against the deception which is being practised upon them; also I believe it may help to destroy the callous complacency with which the majority of those at home regard the continuance of agonies which they do not share and which they have not enough imagination to realize.”It is worth quoting in full and Barker starts the book with it.
Pat Barker’s Regeneration Trilogy approaches World War I from the other side and instead of leading us across the bloodied fields of Ypres, Flanders, Mons, Loos and the Somme, we start at the Craiglockhart War Hospital outside Edinburgh where men are being treated for shell-shock, trench fever and a thousand connotations of the nervous twitching horror generated by being forced to lie in a shallow trench, largely propped, buttressed and constructed from the frozen or decomposing bodies of your own squadron, friends and family, while you wait to see whether the next shell will ensure your place as part of the trench architecture.
This is a time when mans role in British Society has been reduced to the simple status of soldier or civilian, where you must be able to provide a damned good reason for still being the latter.
"I am making this statement as an act of willful defiance of military authority, because I believe the war is being deliberately prolonged by those who have the power to end it." While there for treatment Sassoon befriends and influences another poet, Wilfred Owen.
Dr. Rivers outside Craiglockhart War HospitalBarker lets the fact that life brought these men together at this point in history shine through in a simple straight forward manner, using her fictional characters to support and explore other aspects of the war and homefront.
My phrasing is off there, its debatable why they fought as individuals, but the King-Emperor, in his gracious telegrams to the departing troops, was certainly kind enough to express the view that they were fighting for his honour and for his empire.Clearly giving people suffering trauma as a result of exposure to the conditions on the western front electric shocks seems barbaric to us now but that seems to ignore the shock to the system of medical care flailing about looking for some kind of effective treatment for what was to them in those days when Freud was a new and radical voice (and a dangerously foreign one at that) an inexplicable condition and to overlook the intrinsic barbarity of the war itself.
They set off on the war as for a trip, as for a great Adventure, joined the army as a volunteers convinced that dulce et decorum is pro Patria mori, overflowed with enthusiasm, with their hearts filled pictures of brotherhood, sacrifice, honour If I should die, think only this of me That there's some corner of a foreign fieldthat is for ever EnglandMeanwhile had experienced inequality, snobbery, idiotic rules and punishment for its breaking and finally ended in Flanders trenches and dugouts, in waist-deep water, being gassed, waiting for death.
I believe that this war, upon which I entered as a war of defense and liberation, has now become a war of aggression and conquest…This is a completely revised review of the book.the first edition (1991) cover, Penguin Books Ltd.So begins Pat Barker's Regeneration trilogy, the series of novels harking back to the second decade of the twentieth century … a series which won acclaim in the last decade of that century as one of the outstanding achievements of serious fiction as the century staggered towards its uneven conclusion.
Although Regeneration is fiction, several of the characters are based on real men, two poets – Siegfried Sassoon and Wilfred Owen – and a doctor – William Rivers.
And the staggering death toll of men who lived in trenches but occasionally were ordered to stand up and walk into machine gun fire.The author suggests that the mental disabilities represent the rebellion of the body against the carnage of battle, the destruction of war.
Barker fills Regeneration with some haunting, unforgettable images: Burns falling face first into the German [soldier]'s exploded stomach; Anderson's collapse at the sight of a nicked cheek (this from having once been a [WWI] surgeon); Prior's eyeball and the question, "what do I do with this gobstopper?"; and the most terrible of all, Dr. Yealland's torutre of Callan -- a cure by negative -- Nazi-like -- reinforcement.By setting WWI on the home front, the gravity of its horror is more fully driven into my mind than any film I've ever seen has done.
I have been meaning to read Pat Barker's Regeneration - the 'classic exploration of how the traumas of war brutalised a generation of young men' - for such a long time, but only got around to it very recently.
'Yet the closer he gets to mending his patients' minds,' the blurb continues, 'the harder becomes every decision to send them back to the horrors' which await them.Regeneration opens at the point at which Sassoon has expressed his objections to the war in writing, in a piece which he calls 'an act of wilful defiance of military authority'.
The Regeneration Trilogy: I read these books in the late '90s, after Ghost Road was first published. I was in love with the British war poets of WWI at the time and this fit right in. I don't remember many details, but these books were great reads. Very athmospheric, accessible and captivating main characters, I suffered with them every step of the way.P.S.: The movie is also very good.
(I explicitly limit this generalization to soldiers from European countries [including Canada, Australia and New Zealand] because they were in the trenches for four full years whereas American soldiers were engaged in active combat for less than a year.) This novel is therefore particularly poignant because it provides a psychological study of the consequences of war by telling the story of a British anthropologist serving in the role of a psychiatrist in a mental hospital during WWI who has the duty of rehabilitating mental casualties so that they will be able to return to military service.
Perhaps even 4 stars. This historical-fiction novel centers around the poet Siegfried Sassoon and his psychiatrist Dr. Rivers during his stay at the mental hospital Craiglockhart during 1917. The central theme is conflict between duty and survival which Rivers recognizes as the basis for most of the cases of "war neurosis", shell shock or as we now call it PTSD. Where do we draw the line between a soldier's duty and a completely reasonable desire to survive? The heart-wrenching part was the fact
Perhaps even 4½ stars.
This historical-fiction novel centers around the poet Siegfried Sassoon and his psychiatrist Dr. Rivers during his stay at the mental hospital Craiglockhart during 1917.
The central theme is conflict between duty and survival which Rivers recognizes as the basis for most of the cases of "war neurosis", shell shock or as we now call it PTSD.
Where do we draw the line between a soldier's duty and a completely reasonable desire to survive?
The heart-wrenching part was the fact that many of the men (especially officers) didn't want (at least in the conscious part of their brain) to be posted in a "safe" position because they felt it was shameful to desert their men.
I found this a fascinating book!! I am really interested in anything about medicine and so found the description of early psychological treatments of WWI veterans very interesting. Also, that the whole trilogy is based on fact, on the real life meeting of the poet Sigfried Sassoon and his doctor during his rehabilitation W.H.R. Rivers. I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the series.
This protest led him to be labeled as "shell shocked" and be confined at Craiglockhart Hospital under the care of an army psychiatrist, Dr. Rivers.
Among the patients in the hospital were those who were truly suffering from the war trauma: another poet, Wilfred Owen who was able to polish his talent in writing under Sassoon; Billy Prior, an on-off mute who had an affair with a woman during his confinement; and Robert Graves, another patient who became his friend.
Your Regeneration has definitely joined Birdsong as my favorite WWI novels!
For me, this first book in Pat Barker’s trilogy presents a perfect storm of interests — World War I, English poets, and madness.
Incorporating actual people and events into the narrative, the novel takes place at Craiglockhart, a hospital outside Edinburgh requisitioned in 1916 as a facility for officers suffering from shell-shock.
One of the central stories concerns the poet Siegfried Sassoon, whose conviction that the war was being unnecessarily prolonged prompted him to publish an inflammatory “Declaration Against the War”.
Nevertheless, Regeneration is intensely gripping and presents a haunting exploration of issues raised by prolonged trench warfare.
The first was that after all my recent World War I readings I thought it would be good to come up with a book that talked about the consequences of the war on the soldiers who participated.
Ο πρώτος ήταν ότι μετά από όλα τα πρόσφατα αναγνώσματα μου για τον πρώτο Παγκόσμιο Πόλεμο σκεφτόμουν ότι θα ήταν καλό να καταλήξω σε ένα βιβλίο που θα μιλάει για τις συνέπειες του πολέμου στους στρατιώτες που συμμετείχαν.
Σε ένα νοσοκομείο όπου καταλήγουν πολλά από τα θύματα του πολέμου αυτή η ιδέα είναι ακόμα ισχυρότερη καθώς οι στρατιώτες που έχουν υποστεί σωματικά και ψυχολογικά τραύματα αμφισβητούν έντονα την χρησιμότητα του πολέμου, αναρωτώμενοι αν οι θυσίες τους άξιζαν τον κόπο.
Loved this one! A wonderfully subtle novel about the psychological impact of the Great War. The first novel of three. I am looking forward to the next.
Like so much other contemporary literary fiction, this was just meh.
It was words on a page.
It wasn't compelling, I didn't like it more than I disliked it or vice versa.
In many ways it was like another meh book, Homer & Langley: historical fiction, based on a true story, with imagined conversations and fabricated details.
The real story is always more interesting to me.
I don't see the point of books like these.
I don't understand why so many people read them, and literary award juries dote on them.
I'd rather read Siegfried Sassoon and Wilfred Owen's poetry, and their biographies.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
In Regeneration, Pat Barker fictionalises an encounter between H. R. Rivers and Siegfrid Sasson in a military psychological hospital. In Craiglockhart, near Edinburgh, there are numerous war wounded, whose experiences in the Flanders trenches of the First World War have left them psychologically, as well as sometimes physically scarred. The symptoms are many and varied. In Sassoons case it is possible that the motivation might even be political, rather than psychological.Rivers attempts to analy
R. Rivers and Siegfrid Sasson in a military psychological hospital.
In Sassoon´s case it is possible that the motivation might even be political, rather than psychological.Rivers attempts to analyse his patients and his own responses to them.
Along the way, he also develops new, ground-breaking treatments of his own invention.Sassoon befriends a young man called Owen, whom he encourages to write.
Together, Sassoon and Owen work on some of Owen´s writing.
It presents the creative process as a reflection on experience and sets this in an institution where formal reflection on experience is a treatment.
It's been a long time since I've read the Regeneration trilogy, recommended and lent to me by a friend I was living with at the time.
I thought they were great -- poetic, powerful, intriguing in their exploration of shell-shock and poets and protest (WWI) and the life of protagonist Billy Prior (fictional character working with historical psychologist William Rivers, who treated both Seigfried Sassoon and Wilfred Owen for ptsd during the war).
Perhaps I'll read these books again at some point.
Several recommendations and mentions of other books dealing with similar subject matter (in other gr reviews) including:The Great War and Modern Memory by Paul FussellTo End All Wars by Adam Hochschild
With so many enigmatic characters, this work of fiction was able to deliver an intensive and humane look on the turmoils of war in a more psychological aspect and how they translate to the physical manifestations."The process of transformation consists almost entirely of decay" ~W.H.R. RiversTHE CHARACTERSMy personal favorite character is Rivers because the doctor has steel nerves especially during the last portions of the book where he observes a fellow colleague, Dr. Yealland, perform electric shocks on a patient with mutism.
