https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/168528.Island_of_the_Mighty
This also leads to the death of Pryderi, which doesn't endear Gwydion to the reader who has also read the retellings of the other three branches -- and also to the disgracing of Arianrhod and the birth of Llew Llaw Gyffes.The themes Evangeline Walton explored in the other books come to fruition here, as power passes more and more from women to men, even power over birth and the rearing of children.
I still enjoyed it as a retelling and think Walton dealt well with the material, but I wish she'd been kinder to Arianrhod and Blodeuwedd, who were both unable to fit in the patriarchal society that wanted power over women's bodies, and expected them to abide by two conflicting sets of rules.
I'm not sure if this is a "retelling" of the Mabinogi, or an "adaptation" or a "novelization" or what. What I am sure of is that it was a lovely, lovely book, full of graceful prose, magic, love and loss. And unpronounceable Welsh names. And maybe just a wee dram of 1930's spiritualism/mysticism courtesy of the author. Highly recommended.
It's probably best that it not be the first one in the collection; I found the story inherently less interesting than Prince of Annwn.
It's a good story, but a little more typically fantasy-quest-legend style than the other.Gwydion, strong, fair, and intelligent prince of north Wales repeatedly facilitates the dreams of those he cares about, only to have his plans thwarted by the people he cheats in the process.
Just in case you might feel conflicted about this, it is explained how those others weren't good people anyway ;) Antics include tricking his uncle the king into going to war so that Gwydion's brother might make off with the king's footmaiden.
A satisfying reworking of Welsh legend. There are more than a few winks made at 20th century society in the narrative, but the spirit of ancient tales is strong with it. As with any adaptation of an oral narrative there are hook phrases which recur nearly constantly that kight make this a thoroughly enjoyable audio book if someone had the time and grasp of Welsh pronunciations.
I believe, however, that this the fourth book is perhaps my least favorite.
Perhaps it was the way Walton's 20th century voice broke through, a bit more insistently than in the previous three books.
Maybe my tolerance for reading about stupid people who don't learn is making me into one of those insufferable prigs-- O God, please no.
Walton did an amazing job of telling the ancient stories in a way that is simultaneously faithful to the old while catering to our modern psycholgical concerns to make a richly satisfying mythic story for people today.
It is difficult to imagine anybody else doing that job as well as she did.

A superb adaptation of the fourth branch of the Mabinogion (a collection of Welsh myths). The magic is powerful (despite Walton's insistence it's just Lost Science), the characters are vivid, though the mysticism is cliched and her handling of gender issues a bit uncomfortable (this was written in the 1930s)--for example, Walton's assertion that before virginity became a concept, rape didn't exist (WTF?). I think it's terrific, even so.
An exciting adaptation of the fourth branch of the Mabinogi. Walton made it a blast to read, and contextualized it for a slightly less misogynistic audience without bowdlerizing or making it feel inauthentic. I'm ordering the other three parts to read soon!
Wow! Trippy feminist retelling of parts of the Mabanogion. Unexpected and slightly shocking in places.
I'm not sure why, but I couldn't get into this one at all. Main characters were all pretty hateful and selfish, and I didn't like them or care about them. I much prefer Lloyd Alexander's Gwydion!
Now that I've finished the Fourth Branch I wish that there was more, time to start reading any related material I can find. ^_^
Originally titled The Virgin and The Swine. Awesome celtic mythology. My father knew the author who was known as "The Blue Lady" because she suffered from a lack of oxygen when she was born.
The final branch of the Mabinogion is masterfully retold by the author. It encompasses the magic, love, and tragedy of the tale, and is told with empathy and love.
first half was four stars, second half was five stars, so I'd give it 4.5 if I could:).
read it during the 1970s and remember loving it. Need to reread it.
A rich, interesting remake of old Welsh myth. I enjoyed marking the similarities between this and other more modern takes on Celtic lore.
