https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/816629.The_Ashley_Book_of_Knots
I wish more books would do that.Knot tying is probably in no danger of disappearing, but certainly fewer people are learning to tie them.
It also provides a sort of sociological insight into how people worked not so long ago, too, with knots specific to stevedores, teamsters, movers, bakers, fishermen and others who once depended on knots but to a great extent no longer do so.It's a great book in an old fashioned sense of the word.
This is by far the most comprehensive book on knots I've ever seen. But it's so much more than just an enyclopedia of knots; it's also a glimpse into the history of their use and utility. I've referred to this beautifully illustrated book many times when looking for just theright way to rig something up in the yard, fastening cargo to the roof of the car, tying my kids to the flagpole... just kidding...
You don't really read this book; it's a reference work. If you appreciate resourcefulness, art, sailing, camping, flying, needlecraft, knitting, crochet, history, physics, tenacity, dedication, collecting, music, carpentry, or anything really....if you can appreciate a magnificent effort by one person to know, record and share everything there is to know about one thing, you'll appreciate this volume. It is simply the definitive work on knots. Even if you don't like knotcraft, you simply have to get ahold of this book for a few moments just to flip through. You'll be amazed.
The "big mamma" of knot books. More a history of different knots and their uses than how to actually tie them. Most other books of knots are based on this.
More knots then the internet, honestly in a decision between referencing the internet or this book, I would look in the book first! The internet has lots of knots and knowledge but it's fragmented and incomplete, you can search for days Or pick up a copy of this book if you have any interest in knot work!
Невероятни илюстрации, обяснения, а кратките бележки могат да се четат като художествена литература.Прочел инструктажи как се правят нат 3800 възела, примки, въжени стълби, декоративни плетки, не съм, това е книга, която да си разгръщаш постоянно.Рисунките и историята вътре те вкарват в 19 век, когато да можеш да връзваш възли е било изискване за редица професии - моряци(естествено), хамали, обущари, покривари, коминочистачи и много други.
А кратката му лична история направо я откраднах за едно разказче, което пиша в момента и ме насочи към книгата по начало.Искрено препоръчвам, на всичките си пишещи приятели да я погледнат, ако искат да направят някое морско фентъзи да звучи по-достоверно с някаква малка подробност.
I could not "read" this book.
Guide to every type of knot--or should I say, "Every Way to use Rope and String known to Man,"?
It is awesome both in it's undertaking, and in it's completion.
It succeeds so well, it is staggering to read.
Could have gone on for two years, and still never finished the book.
Before I was finished, I had a piece of parachute cord in my hand trying to learn the knots as I was going along.
I did not succeed.I think I've said enough.
This book is outstanding, accurate, interesting, drawing are great....I'm going to buy a copy.

This is the classic, most thorough book on knots to be had. It shows, explains, and comments on nearly 4,000 different knots, accompanied by charming drawings. There is a lot to be learned about cultural history and probably everything else in this book. Although the drawings are clean and simple, I am especially thick-headed when it comes to knots, which is why I am reading this book. I love it that Ashley says either a knot is right, or it's wrong. There is nothing in between. How great!
The front cover says that this book contains every practical knot - what it looks like, who uses it, where it comes from, and how to tie it. It also states that it contains 7000 drawings representing over 3,900 knots. While this is not a book that most people can read cover to cover, it fastenates me. Somehow, as odd as it may seem, a fun book to flip through. I'll admit that I have not tried any knots in here yet, but I could, with some practice and this book eventually, master all but the very complicated ones.
The original knot reference book, from the 1940s. This is probably the most important book on the subject, and has more knots listed than any other book.It references some 3800 knots with over 7000 hand-drawn diagrams. As this book was first published in 1944, there are some more recently discovered knots missing from this huge volume, such as the Versatackle knot and the Zeppelin bend. This book is a must-have for any knot enthusiast.
There is no book or website on the subject that is more definitive. This book sets the standard and is referenced by nearly every website and other book on the subject, that I've ever read. There's over 10 knots for every task you can think of and then there's the best knot for the job. They're all illustrated in this book.Plus, the history and lingo make for some very interesting reading. This is one of my most frequented books. Every household should have a copy of this book available.
This is the oft-cited Bible of knot tying. Really a catalog of knots with interesting discussion at the beginning of each section. Good source for citations, and I found a few fun ones. A few errors in diagrams (e.g. #784 was nonsensical) but on the whole very useful and fun to see the variety. A knot bestiary!
A classic knot book, especially for the sailing community. A knot for every situation, and many more left over. Fellow dockhands and I spent a full summer at the marina learning every type of bowline imaginable. Some of the illustrations are a bit hard to follow; updated diagrams would make this book the essential reference it deserves to be.
This is the best book on knots there is. The illustrations are wonderful, the instructions clear. Nothing beats this. Knots for every purpose under the sun. Loads of sailing one of course. Near the back is the recipe for how to knot a hammock - one day if I have the time and enough rope...
An incredible resource, though I think if I buy a book on knots I will look for something a little more compact. Published in 1944, so there's a lot of interesting history in it as well as lots of fascinating information on useful and decorative knots.
This is an outstanding book that I believe would be of benefit for all to read. The knowledge gained shall expand your skills necessary for basic survival and you will find helpful in everyday living situation.
This is--of course--the bible of knot books. What it does not have is information about modern synthetic ropes and specialized knots that have been developed for them.Interested in knots and ropes? Get this book.
I finally got my hands on the book. It's a comprehensive work that will answer any question you might have about knots.
I need to find a copy. A library copy just doesn't allow for enough time.
I was compelled to acquire this book after reading The Shipping News. It includes every knot known to man and is fun to browse.
Terrible illustrations, but it's the bible of knotting.
I didn't so much read this book as so much as spend a good amount of time flipping through its pages when I was younger.Still have the book, still love flipping through it.
The Bible of knot tying. Worth every cent.
If you thought you knew how to tie knots, you haven't heard of this book... after you do you will realize you knew NOTHING!
Waited a long time for this. Not exactly a book to be read cover to cover. More like Ogden Nash poetry, to be deeply contented into for hours at a time from year to year.
An absolutely lovely and comprehensive reference book. There is knotting information in this book that you would never think of looking for. Then, you wouild wonder why you never thought of it.
An absolute must have for any lover of the cord!
This is the best single source for knots. Bought this book in 1958 and have been using it ever since.
The most comprehensive knot book I know of. Mind-boggling.
