https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24781.The_High_King
Finally Taran must decide whether to be High King.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و ششم ماه آگوست سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: افسانه های پریداین - کتاب 5 : تاران و فرمانروای بزرگ؛ نوشته: لوید الکساندر؛ مترجم: مریم سیادت؛ تهران، تندیس، 1385؛ در 286 ص؛ شابک:9789648944198؛ جلد ؛ سده 20 معنوان اصلی کتاب پنجم از سری پنج جلدی پریداین: «د های کینگ»، است، که مترجم آن را: «تاران و فرمانروای بزرگ» نامیده است.
There were times I wanted to throw the book down and times I couldn't even bear to close it at night.
The book, while a fairy tale, is life.Nothing in life is free and all things come with a price, even the price of gifts that we wish we could keep.
But though we may give up what we think we desire in life, in the end--if it were for love--we know that it was worth it.There are many examples of forgoing one's heart's desire in order to do that which is for the "greater good." In the end, our lives can either be lived for our own good or for the good of those who come after: I know which life I will choose to lead.
Vrlo lep zavrsetak za jedan jako lep serijal. Imamo svega ovde, i srece i tuge, delova da stane srce delova da se opustimo. Manje vise sve je razjasnjeno, svi likovi su dotaknuti i nagradjeni prema zasluzi. Sta drugo reci, citajte.Jedino sto mi smeta sto je ceo serijal nekako prekratak. Mozda je to do moje profesionalne deformacije da skoro svi fantazi romani imaju knjige od 500+ strana, ali kolko sam uzivao citajuci prosto mi je zao sto je gotovo.
The High KingA page-turning thriller With a deeply moving ending,That draws the threads of the first four booksAnd strengthens them in the blending.
4.5 stars
To spoil the whole thing, because Arawn has been defeated, basically all magic and magical creatures and people (including Gwydion and the Sons of Don and Dallben) retreat to "the summer kingdom" where they will all live forever with no sickness and disease and peace, but Taran refuses the gift of coming along with them as one of the heroes who saved Prydain.
It was just too much copy copy, and felt extra weird coming on the heels of four stories that went out of their ways to make sure Taran and his companions spent as much time as possible together.
In the end all this adventure leads us to a dramatic climax followed by one of the most moving finale I have read in the field of fantasy but also in general.
That is why I'm in the very rare situation to get to the end of a series and feel a sadness because there in nothing more to read.
And somehow, with this overwhelming sentiment that has flooded me - and I did not wait to pass in order to write a more objective review - I seriously state that this is one of the best high fantasy series ever written and I will suggest to everyone to read it, or, better, I will express my sorrow for all those who have not yet done so.
No matter how many times I read this book, the final chapter always rips me in half. And what a time to go through that again.
This is to date one of the best children's novels I've read in one of the best children's series out there.
Alexander draws on a wealth of Welsh mythology to put together a rags to riches story of a pig-keeper, his growth from child to youth to man, and the decisions we are all forced to make in adulthood.
There were many different types of closure in the final book -- the first time I read it I cried, which is really rare for me.
I found the portrayals of key characters moving as well as the stories surrounding the protagonist (Taran) and his essential core of friends and supporters.
A great finale to the series. It was a hundred percent worth reading. :)
Single review for the Chronicles of Prydain, as they are similar in style and quality and could have been produced as a single large volume of five sub-books.
The Chronicles of Prydain are children's books.
Some children's books hold up well when read by an adult, but these are definitely for kids and do not carry any added depth.
I suspect a grown-up audience might find these richer and rawer, just as a grown-up audience might prefer reading the Bible over one of those bowdlerized "children's Bible stories" collections.
Try these if you haven't hit your growth spurts yet, but for my time and money I'd rather have simply re-read the Lord of the Rings.
More of a 3.5 star, but it does wrap up everything in a pretty predictable manner. Still, it was fun with a few characters dying that I mourned for. Some others didn't that might have made it more interesting, though. Still, it was a good ending to an excellent YA series. I'm happy to have read it again as an adult. Highly recommended. If you can find it as an audio book narrated by James Langton, you'll be even happier. He did a great job. Very memorable voices that were the same throughout the series.
This one felt more rushed than the others.
like other books in the series, more time is spent on their daily trivialities than the big picture.
the death of the main antagonist of the entire series was addressed in a fight lasting no more than a page.
it felt anticlimactic.
lesser villains were given better fights and deaths.
I hated glew, better characters than him died whilst we had to endure his whining for an entire book.
the characters were crafted with love and personality, but by the end, it just falls flat.
Can...can I give this 100 stars?
Quite an action-packed ending to the series.
It always takes me a while to get into each of these books, but by the end I'm not usually disappointed.
Seeing so many similar details got distracting toward the end.
But somehow, on another level, this universe still contains its own unique story.Some thoughts on the characters with spoilers -- It was great to see Taran absorb so much from his surroundings and charge forward with wisdom when he needed to.
Glew was a pointless character; why didn't he get killed off in the beginning like Rhun?
With only the slimmest of hopes, Taran and Gwydion must raise an army and strike at Arawn's stronghold to try to end his evil once and for all.The High King is not the strongest of Lloyd Alexander's Prydain quintet.
That may be asking too much from a series that unabashedly drew from many sources, including Welsh mythology in particular.Aside from a weak ending, the book is a fitting conclusion to the series.
It's not the best of the batch, but it's still good, and it'll do your heart good to know where Taran, Eilonwy, and even Hen-Wen the oracular pig have ended up.
I can't even count how many times I have read it and I have loved it each and every time I have read it.
I love the character development of Taran.
He really grows up and matures from the beginning of the series and the end.
Fflewddur Fflam is funny and of course I love Gwydion.
I could go on and on about how wonderful this book is, but really you need to experience the whole wonderful series for yourself.
Favorite quote: "every man is a hero if he strives more for others than for himself alone." <3 perfection!!!Update 6/12/18 - this book gets me every time.
But these really are just quibbles in a book that I really enjoyed, and which made me think quite a bit.The ending is highly reminiscent of Lord of the Rings, of course, but really the connection probably is that both chronicles drew upon mythology (Welsh for Alexander, Norse and a mix of other things, including Celtic, for Tolkien).
So the links between the two endings I think are due more to what the books owe to mythology than what Alexander owed to Tolkien (though he clearly owed Tolkien quite a lot).
I love Eilonwy not caring about her dirty hair and loving to have it braided up on her head and boyish, I love Eilonwy thinking all her ladyship training was nonsense, I love Eilonwy yelling at Taran {because that's what I wanted to do most of the time}, I love Eilonwy and her signature glowing ball, golden ring, and crescent moon necklace, I love her whimsical metaphors, I love her titles {"Princess of Lyr" "Eilonwy of the red-gold hair"}, and I love her enchantress descent.
I don't know how old Taran and Eilonwy were to begin with or to end with!
And yes, as their characters seemed to change so little, I found it hard to not just imagine them as the twelve year olds I started with when they were (view spoiler)[talking about marriage!
It’s not that flowery and is also a bit old-fashioned, both because Alexander was writing about a mythical medieval Wales and also, I think, because he was writing in the 60’s and I have memories of Nancy Drew books seeming similarly stilted to me.
I think it lends the books an elevated tone, which makes sense for an epic fantasy adventure, and is also just slightly more readable for a YA audience.
So do these books have their flaws and occasionally seem a bit dated?
“For the deeds of a man, not the words of a prophecy, are what shape his destiny.” Returning home from his wanderings, Taran finds that he cannot continue his former peaceful life; The Death Lord Arawn has finally made a move to conquer all of Prydain. Taran is summoned to be a war leader alongside his friend, Prince Gwydion of Don. The Chronicles of Prydain kept getting better with each volume - that is until I read this final instalment. I did like it, but not as much as the middle instalment
Taran is summoned to be a war leader alongside his friend, Prince Gwydion of Don. The Chronicles of Prydain kept getting better with each volume - that is until I read this final instalment.
I loved how Taran's role as a war leader would not have worked without all the friendships he made during his wanderings of the fourth volume.In addition, several bits and pieces from all previous books were picked up again.
At least he only has major appearances in the final volume!All in all, I loved The Chronicles of Prydain!
Taran is done wandering, but he returns to news of a horrible loss: Arawn has stolen Gwydion's sword Dyrnwyn.
The battles rage, and even outside them a sense of desperation builds; the action never lets up, and at the end all that was accomplished must be balanced against all that was lost.Old friends return indeed: pretty much every character who hasn't died from the previous books shows up again here.
The characters are still pretty straightforward, though Taran has an ever-increasing load of obligation.
It would be best to read the other books in the series before this one if only to recognize all the returning characters.
Таран дефинитивно није најспектакуларнији главни лик у историји књижевности, увијек је озбиљан, често патетичан и дефинитивно потпуно лишен хумора, али избор који је направио на крају ове књиге не може а да га не начини симпатичним.Ово што сам горе споменуо око тога да је књига (наравно, као и читав серијал) писана за младе (или ђецу) много је велики терет око њеног врата.
Александеру, као и Толкину, помало недостаје способност да створи стварно безнадежну атмосферу, јер његов Араун, баш као и Толкинов Саурон, пречесто добија ћушке од прилично килавих главних јунака који стално кукају како је све изгубљено.
Lloyd Alexander was a kind, simple man with a passion for mythology, especially Welsh lore. These books began with an exploration of ancient stories, and grew into what I believe to be the best children's literature out there. I still read them now and again, just because they move me so. Alexander manages a rather brilliant balance of humour and sorrow--something rarely found in books written for young people. His characters are lovable, entertaining, and real, despite their fantastical setting. Altogether a set of amazing stories--ones that I love dearly.
Holy character development, batman. I actually liked Taran in this book. The adventures had higher stakes and the characters seemed rounder than usual, with depths not previously seen.I got weepy at several points in the book (view spoiler)[ mainly when Fflewddur Fflam sacrificed his harp for firewood and when Taran and Eilonwy were almost seperated. Oh, god, and Taran losing Gurgi! Ugh. (hide spoiler)], which makes me respect the character development even more. Well done, Lloyd Alexander. I hated most of these people in the first book and now you have me weeping over them.
One of the very best series I have read. It is an interpretation of the Mabinogin welsh myths. Ah once again I come to the end of this tale having listened to the excellent work of the Audible crew.
This began a bit slow, but it got good as it went on.
The ending was just superb, and really satisfactory.Apparently, the author was inspired by Welsh mythology.
I myself know zero about Welsh myths, but anything with a basis on old legends and lores I admire.
You chose an evil means to do it.
Good cannot come from evil.""Taran looked more closely at the fabric and saw ...
My life is bound to theirs."All in all, a very good series.
Maybe more exciting for younger readers, but that doesn't mean older kids and adults won't enjoy it.
I was not expecting just how much book withdrawl I would be going through after finishing this series.
The ending is just so sentimental and emotional that I started tearing up, and I absolutely love this series with my entire heart.
This book...
it's a good finish to the series.
It's got tons of action, it ties up a ton of loose threads, the bad guys lose and the good guys win...
You can't go wrong with it.I'm extremely glad I can enjoy this series as an adult.
It's so much more special, and it makes you feel so many feelings.Amazing book.
Amazing series.
Amazing everything.
Wow, wow, and wow! I thought the 4th book was the best, but that was before I read this one! What a wonderful book and series, strewn with true heroes and wisdom for them and readers to absorb and live out. Loved it.
I loved these when I was a kid and it turns out I kinda love them now too. I’m maybe going to write a review for someone, if not I’ll post something longer here.
