https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77598.Curtains_for_Three
They hire Nero Wolfe to find the killer.This novel is very notable for the fact that the murder weapon was very busy travelling places seemingly all by itself without any outside help, thus the title.
It turns out, Archie Goodwin does not like horses (a new fact) and the police does not like Archie Goodwin (there is nothing new about it).
To finally catch the killer Nero Wolfe devises a scheme which puts Archie Goodwin into a really dangerous situation.
A very entertaining trio of Nero Wolfe novellas. The first two take place in the worlds of opera and industrial design, showing that likely suspects and disagreeable people can be found in every profession, and the last one, "Disguise for Murder" features a murder perpetrated in Nero Wolfe's own office. Each of the three is a completely successful entertainment.
3.5*Review pending
three different stories with all the same people
I liked the third story the best even if Archie did get shot in the arm.
3 racconti dove il pachidermico Nero Wolfe dà il meglio di sé per scovare l'assassino. Soprattutto nel terzo racconto deve darsi da fare in fretta, pena l'impossibilità di accedere al suo studio: infatti l'assassino stavolta ha osato compiere un omicidio proprio nel mitico studio con le poltroncine di pelle gialla e la poltrona rossa. Scritti con la consueta arguzia, anche i racconti brevi si leggono volentieri.
This is a collection of three novellas - too short to quite satisfy me, otherwise it would have been 5 stars.
In the second, a man is shot while out riding his horse, and Nero Wolfe comes up with a clever way to trap the murderer.
The third was most interesting - a woman is strangled in Wolfe's office while he and Archie are entertaining the Manhattan Flower Club in the orchid rooms upstairs.
Once again, he comes up with a way to trap the murderer, but this time it involves putting Archie in a dangerous situation.
All three, although short, are very good and very quick reading.
Another great collection of Nero Wolfe shorts. Even after reading close to 20 Wolfe books, I'm still impressed by the inventiveness of the plots and the quirkiness of the clients/suspects. The first story, The Gun With Wings, had me flat-out guessing right up until the end. The last story, Disguise for Murder, was included in the Timothy Hutton TV series so I knew all its secrets but getting there was still a lot of fun. I'm really enjoying Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin, but especially Archie. I can't wait for the next book.
Three more great short stories from Rex Stout. Nero Wolfe continues to amaze and entertain us as he pontificates and surmounts the problems of murder. Aided only by his man Friday, Archie Goodwin, and numerous bottles of beer, he sorts out the crimes that are brought into his New York brownstone home. Always circuitous, Wolfe, again, beats the best mystery readers (and the NYPD) to the answer of the question, "Who dun it?" and takes us on a wonderful ride, as well. Another very good read.
This book is comprised of three Nero Wolfe novellas involving, what else, but murder of course. Nero Wolfe uses his brain power and the skills of his confidential assistant Archie Goodwin to solve the murders without leaving the house. Wolfe's ongoing conflictual working relationship with Inspector Cramer comes to a head in the third novella, and is resolved in amusing ways.
Is there any such thing as a bad Rex Stout, Nero Wolfe book? I don't think so. This anthology is no exception. Three superb stories - the last one being my favorite, it is quite unique. I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
This is a good trilogy of murder cases but the third story is the best! Nero's office is violated. Archie is put in mortal peril. Yet again Nero pulls a brilliant conclusion out of facts we are all privy too but somehow miss. Good stuff.
3 short good mysteries3 mysteries in 220 pages was a good change. I normally prefer 300+ pages, but Rex Stout's , Nero Wolfe series is an exception. I do enjoy the characters of Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin.
The last story, and in particular the hilarious back-and-forth between Cramer and Wolfe, was what earned this book the fourth star. A collection of very decent novellas.
The perfect train travel reading.
Three interesting stories in one. Rex Stout does a good job creating surprise twists to the story.
Another fun one!!!!
You start living in Stout's world.
Another collection of three short stories (or novellas). The last especially is quite clever.
Curtains for Three is really three novellas:  The Gun With Wings  A couple seek Nero Wolfe's help to determine who killed the woman's husband. He was a famous tenor, but had a throat issue at the time he apparently committed suicide. What makes it murder? The gun, of course. It was moved at least two times.  Bullet For One This was my least favorite of the three and I quickly worked out the killer's identity as fast as Wolfe did. 5 of 6 Police Suspects in the murder of an industrial designer wan
The Gun With Wings
He was a famous tenor, but had a throat issue at the time he apparently committed suicide.
The gun, of course.
It was moved at least two times.
5 of 6 Police Suspects in the murder of an industrial designer want to hire Wolfe to prove the 6th suspect killed Keyes.
Wolfe takes the case with an open mind.
Nero Wolfe has opened his home and 3rd floor Greenhouse to the Manhattan Flower Club.
But before she could hire Nero Wolfe and reveal the killer's identity, she is strangled.
Wolfe takes the case to spite Inspector Kramer.The third novella was the most entertaining.
In this collection of short stories, Wolfe and Archie learn that appearances can be deceiving and things are not always what they seem.In 'The Gun With Wings', an opera singer with an injured throat seems to have committed suicide by eating a bullet.
Will Wolfe be able to figure out who fired the fatal shot?In 'Disguise for Murder', things get personal.
We learn, for example, that Archie is not above being affected by the naive determination of young love and that he has no patience for perpetual eyebrow-raisers and no interest in young women who 'glisten'.The mysteries themselves grow increasingly implausible through the collection--'The Gun With Wings' is perhaps a shade too clever, 'Bullet for One' is slightly nutty, and 'Disguise for Murder' is downright ridiculous.
One big problem for Wolfe is that the man his clients believe did it has an airtight alibi.Some of the best Nero Wolfe novellas featuring a very memorable distinctive and it’s no different with Bullet for One and this one will always stand out as the one where everyone got arrested.
The novella is far more subtle than the Television version for A&E, as it quietly shows the tension between Wolfe and the official police.The story than features one of the most memorable climaxes in the Wolfe canon with Archie facing more physical danger than ever and a truly surprising solution.
By this I mean sometimes as the reader we aren't all that interested in the resolution to the mystery or murder or whatever the issue is - our main interest is time with Wolfe and Archie and seeing how they wrap it up, regardless of how it wraps up.
This story, though, with the murder weapon's ability to change places multiple times, is so refreshingly different as a problem that Wolfe needs to be solved and we really want to know the answer - especially when we think we get the answer but, like Archie in the book, become incredulous when Wolfe says we are only halfway to the solution!
Still, it's a Nero Wolfe/Archie Goodwin story.
Someone murdered him and they are hoping that it wasn't one of them, because their love can never be until this shadow of doubt is lifted.
She is found there by Archie and tells him she has things to tell Wolfe about a murder.
But while Archie is back up in the plant rooms briefing Wolfe, someone else slips into the office and strangles her with a silk scarf - the same modus operandi used in the murder she had information on.
No one can get away with murdering someone in Wolfe's office, so the chase is on!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPOILERS PRINTED ON A SILK SCARFCover Art - OK.
And "Disguise for Murder" features a murderer audaciously attacking and killing a victim in Nero Wolfe's own house, nay, in his very office!
You see, a garden reporter for the newspaper has persuaded Wolfe to permit members of the Garden Society to visit his beloved orchids, and so Wolfe is confronted with a packed house, half of which are, gasp, women, and when one of them turns up dead, it's up to Wolfe to discover the killer, if only to make sure that Inspector Cramer will unseal his office pronto so that he can get back to being comfortable again in it....
A young couple deeply in love comes to seek Nero Wolfe's help because the young woman's husband has died.
The second story, "Bullet for One", finds the daughter of a murdered man in Nero Wolfe's office requesting help because she believes that several of her father's acquaintances intend to frame her for her father's death.
During the event, a young woman confides in Archie that she has recognized one of the guests as having killed a good friend whose murder has gone unsolved.
His only clue is that it had to have been a guest and he believes that the murderer did not leave the scene of the crime.
I started reading Rex Stout's mysteries after watching the "Nero Wolfe Mystery" series A&E ran in 2001.
Timothy Hutton plays fast-talking Archie Goodwin, the leg man for Nero Wolfe, New York's most brilliant detective, a devoted gourmet and gardener who never leaves the house on business.
The setting is New York city in 1950, and the authenticity of the language and the details make it a fun time capsule.I'm trying to read these in order, which I would recommend, but since there are 48 stories (I think in over 30 volumes), and many are out of print, it's a committment to get them all much less in order.
The three long stories collected in this volume are all nicely intriguing mysteries chock full of everything that makes the Nero Wolfe books immensely appealing.Stout managed to write in a brisk pace that never falters or loses his unique voice (as filtered through Wolfe's right-hand man, Archie Goodwin).Then there's the comfort of the familiar and relatively safe settings and characters at the fringes of the art-deco world: mid-century Manhattan; the brownstone mansion on 35th Street; the rooftop conservatory crammed with 10,000 orchids; Fritz's fine meals; Archie's knowing and consistent appraisals of people and situations, never innocent but never jaded; the genius of Wolfe himself, a reliable bulwark against the nastiness in the world.
"Curtains for Three" (1951) is the 18th "book" in Rex Stout's "Nero Wolfe" series.
It's three short stories: "The Gun with Wings" (1949), "Bullet for One" (1948), and "Disguise for Murder" (1950).
All three of the stories are in good Rex Stout form, but I found "The Gun with Wings" to be the best of the lot with a good mystery and story.
"Disguise for Murder" gives me problems.
On one hand, the mystery is good.
But, on the other hand, there's a lot of odd behavior in it where the people should have known better.
So, overall, I'd like to rate the book at about 3-1/2 stars.
But the widow and her boyfriend tell Wolfe that when they found the body, the gun wasn't there.
Who cares> It's the reading that's fun.The second story is about a mean rich guy who gets killed while riding his horse through central park.
The people in his life have decided who did it, but Wolf and Archie decide otherwise.The third story is about Wolfe's orchid party, in which he invites 200 people from some flower club to come and look at his orchids.
