https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21569527-the-heart-of-betrayal
This book far surpassed the first one, and the first one was one of my favorites of 2014. I do not know what to do with myself while I wait for the last book. This series takes so many unexpected twists, and tips out my heart at every turn. I cannot wait for what I'm sure will be a breathtaking finale.
Well, first off this love triangle thing needs to stop because it's getting on my nerves but I'm hoping it has fizzled out for the last book.
That ending =( I mean there was one good part that probably will be one of those, we were kidding moments, but there was a really sad part and I don't like it.
And we get to find out all kinds of little secrets about Lia. I'm really hoping the author is going somewhere cool with this!
I still love Eden because of things and just so many others.
I really hope things end up being okay with everyone in the last book.
the middle got a lil boring but those last hundred pages tho!!!!!
I'm not saying Mary Pearson wrote this book just to hurt me, but there's no proof that she didn't. Oh my gosh, I love it.Oh my gosh, the wait for the next book might be the death of me.
(BYR)Publication Date: July 7, 2015Rating: 4 starsSource: ARC sent by the publisherSummary (from Goodreads):Intrigue abounds in this hotly anticipated sequel to The Kiss of Deception!Held captive in the barbarian kingdom of Venda, Lia and Rafe have little chance of escape.
I cannot wait to read book three.In this novel, Lia and Rafe are taken to Venda to live at the mercy of the Komizar.
It seems like EVERYONE is in love (or in lust) with Lia. The Komizar is around Lia, Kaden, and Rafe's age, and he becomes interested in her too.
So, this is only my second book by Mary E. Pearson, but I must say, my experience both times left me like this: And I have every intention of picking up the Jenna Fox Chronicles after such an awesome time with this series, but you know how it is... Anyway, this book picks up right where we left off in The Kiss of Deception. There's some of this: And some of this, as our girl puts two and two together: Can't say I blame her really, after all she's been through. And how much trouble could have be
Pearson, but I must say, my experience both times left me like this:
Anyway, this book picks up right where we left off in The Kiss of Deception.
It was the same for me in the first book, too, though.There's loads more kissing than I expected, not that I'm complaining.Some that made me do this:And some that made me sad...And some that just made me plain mad.Then I started getting really angry as what was happening in Venda began to have repercussions outside of the kingdom walls.But don't think that Lia is going to sit idly by and watch as things unfold.
A solid sequel!!
Well now I need book 3!
And what exactly was going on between the political parties between the kingdoms.
Even if that leader happens to be the Komizar.
I didn't want it to end.
They live in a harsh climate and their resources are more limited than other kingdoms so to see her finally accept them shows so much growth for her character.
I was waiting for it to be climatic!A strong sequel, The Heart of Betrayal will have you wanting more of Lia's world as she navigates a savage country.
08/09/2014
AT ALL.I swear, the WHOLE FREAKING BOOK was spent on Lia debating which guy had nicer muscles.Like, I don't mind that!
;)But this book literally screams: SCREW PLOT, SCREW ACTION, SCREW EVERYTHING!...just look at my amazing muscles...SECOND OF ALL.Did any of you like the guys?I mean......FALL HEAD OVER FREAKING TOES TO LOVE THIS ONE AMAZING GUY WITH AMAZING MUSCLES?SWEET BABY JESUS, I WAS ROOTING FOR KADEN ALL THE WAY.Oh, but he just had to become this overprotecting pig.
sorry, but I'd rather not be gagging through the whole storyThis whole book just ruined the series for me.I'm done.There was no action.Horrible romance.Oh but wait!
Sorry.Buuuut...If you've been chomping at the bit (because maybe you're a horse?) to find out what happened to Lia, Raffe, & Kaden once they got inside the walls of Venda?
Then I think you'll be pretty happy with Pearson's book.
The Heart of Betrayal is exactly what I hoped it would be, in that the non-love-triangle-triangle didn't morph into a real 
That sob story got me right in the feels, and I can see why the fella might have a few issues.Alrighty, I do have one complaint...Pearson didn't do the bestest job recapping what happened in the last book.
It's precisely the kind of book I would look for if I simply wanted to relax and think of nothing for a few days, without ending up banging my head against a wall in an attempt to forget the horror I just read.
So here, in my head Lia is the perfect example of someone who never looks anybody in the face.
If that's where the story's going, I would like to see her actually act in the next book.•The love triangle is, surprisingly, not as heavy as one may think, even though it's undeniably there and at times it really is felt.
However, because of the danger of her situation this time around, it actually turns out to be safer for her to pretend to still be interested in this guy, which of course leads to sort of feelings on both ends.So, in a way Lia loses that powerful agency she had in the first book in favor of prolonging the inevitable.
I feel like she's sort of unfairly categorized in Young Adult to be honest, when her prose seems a bit stronger than the typical books you'd find in the genre.
Are you f*cking kidding me? You can't end a book like that and expect me to wait a whole year! I won't survive this.
I liked that the story mostly stayed in Venda and was able to create such a strong culture and give the reader so much insight into Kaden's life.
And Lia grew into an even stronger character in this book!The love triangle's still fine, too.
But maybe it's because we got such a strong look into Kaden's backstory that Rafe's character seemed kind of weak in comparison here.
Like all hell breaks loose and (view spoiler)[I was sad that one of my favorite characters just died but then a few paragraphs later Lia's being an awesome badass but then Kaden's getting his heart broken and SO MANY CONFLICTING FEELINGS (hide spoiler)].
However, for now I am obliged to stay sane and somehow justify my love for this book (series).I wasn't particularly fond of Lia in The Kiss of Deception, but I was amazed by her character development in this book.
Lia was like Kestrel of The Winner's Curse in that she significantly relied on the sharpness of her intelligence (and tongue).
It was clear that Rafe loved Lia not for her title, but for who she really was.
Rafe prioritized Lia's safety over his own emotions, and I applauded him for doing so.The last thing I liked about this book was its infamous villain, the Komizar.
5/5 starsThe Remnant Chronicles Spoiler Free Series Review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XMS-6...A little slow in the beginning but then I was completely blown away with the different twist and turns!
That ending though..
Read the full review @ A Perfection Called BooksEveryone fears second-book syndrome.
She was her stubborn self and I loved her character growth.
It was such an immediate thing that someone who thinks this is a love triangle baffles me.
No love triangle people, just love and I ship it!!I'm half mad, half enthusiastic and pleased that I decided to read this book now.
I enjoyed The Heart of Betrayal immensely, and it has surpassed my love of The Kiss of Deception.
He kind of bored me, just like in the first book and he made some seriously stupid decisions all in the name of love.Expectation #4: What made TKoD a little more tolerable than some other YA fantasies was the fact that Lia wasn’t really a special snowflake.
The book should have been exciting and suspenseful but it wasn’t until the very end (much like TKoD).Expectation #6: We’re going to get more world-building and insight into the political system of the kingdoms.→ Not really.
At one point my heart became so entangled in where and who my loyalties lie with, that I wanted to scream at Pearson for creating such a flawless book, with brilliant character developments, and stunning chemistry, that I wanted Lia with BOTH of her love interest.
Lia's life has gone from bad to extremely deadly in a matter of weeks, and all she can do is bide her time and wait until the moment comes to strike, and strike she will, even if she has to kill for it...My love for this book and series runs deep.
Mega enttäuscht - weiß noch nicht ob ich überhaupt den dritten Band weiterlesen soll...
I have absolutely no complaints with the writing, the plot (OMG THAT ENDING), the world building, or the character development.
She tries to protect her family, her Morrighese friends, Rafe, her new Vendan friends, her countrymen, as well as her country itself (the said country that now considers her a traitor), all while trying to survive in foreign country of “barbarians”, who all despise anything remotely resembling royalty and privilege.
I really hope that we see more of her in The Beauty of Darkness!This was a brilliant book that I loved from beginning to end.
Although I feel like the plot didn't move forward for quite a while, I REALLY enjoyed this book and felt like I was more engaged with the narrative than I was with book 1. I listened to the audiobook and the cast of narrators and voice acting was superb. I enjoyed being back in this world, seeing the characters for who they really are (instead of all the disguises from book 1) and especially enjoyed seeing how fierce Lia is! I really have no idea where the story is going after that ending, but I want more!!
Buddy read with Support Team aka Cait!I had high hopes going into this book since I've read several reviews stating it's way better than the first book.
Yes. Seems like all this series does is disappoint me time and time again.
I've checked out a lot of reviews prior to starting the book stating that this book is much better than the prior one and I was so happy I was feeling the exact same!
Like in book 1, nothing much happened in this book.
I really like Rafe!
Kaden's cool too but I just like Rafe way better.
I read book 1 before I read Six of Crows, and it was pretty good.
I read this one after I read Six of Crows and suddenly, I've read better and everything in this was cliche and the characters weren't that great and the dialogue was cheesy and the magic system was unrealistic and underexplained.
So. Yeah.Maybe if I'd read this closer to book one I would have enjoyed it, but reading this my eyes were roooolling because the characters and plot were so typical.
And the characters were sorta abusive to each other???
Book one should've been a standalone I guess.
*5 MAGNIFICENT STARS* “The rules of reason build towers that reach past the treetops. The rules of trust build towers that reach past the stars.”  Sweet baby Jesus . I seriously don't know how I survived without these books in my life.I was going to read After You by Jojo Moyes in between these books but I think I'm just gonna jump straight into the next and final book: The Beauty of Darkness. Sorry not sorry! °Review to come°
Auch hatte ich gehofft ein paar fragen aus dem ersten Band beantwortet zu bekommen, was leider auch nicht der Fall war (ich hoffe stark auf den nächsten Band!).
Auch bin ich mir nicht sicher was ich davon halten soll, dass die Dreiecksbeziehung hier so ausgeschlachtet wird...
Ich denke, dass hier einfach der Background für den finalen Band geschaffen wurde und Leute, dann dieser Cliffhanger am Ende!
Und die Furcht, dass es eine gewisse Person vielleicht nicht überlebt (hat)...
Ohje wie lange muss ich gleich nochmal auf den nächsten Band warten?!
DNF @ 75%Buddy read with Jia!I made it 75% through this book. I was SO CLOSE TO FINISHING! But I realised I'm so fucking done because I just don't give a single shit about the characters or the world and I've been skimming for the past 100 pages and I honestly can't stand looking at this book anymore. Fuck this book. Fuck this series. There's no plot. The characters suck. The hype is all bullshit. Thank you and goodbye
