https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48800.The_Third_Man
IL PRIMO UOMOIl gioco delle ombre.Uno dei primi esempi di novelization della storia: la sceneggiatura del film scritta da Greene è del 1949, il romanzo (racconto lungo, novella) del 1950.Holly Martin/Joseph Cotten e Anna Schmidt/Alida Valli.Tra film e romanzo cambia il punto di vista, la voce narrante: nel libro a raccontare è il colonnello inglese Calloway (Trevor Howard), ufficiale dei servizi segreti britannici che deve bloccare un traffico di contrabbando (medicinali scaduti, avariati, più specificamente, penicillina) - nel film è lo stesso protagonista, lo scrittore Holly Martins (Joseph Cotten) che arriva a Vienna subito dopo la liberazione (1945) per scoprire che fine ha fatto il suo amico d’infanzia Harry Lime (Orson Welles) nei cui loschi traffici finisce invischiato.Il che trasforma la narrazione letteraria in un tono più disincantato e ironico, donandole la capacità di sorridere e non prendersi sul serio, cogliendo l’aspetto ridicolo di circostanze invece drammatiche.Harry Lime/Orson Welles.Io però preferisco il film, senza se e senza ma.
Rollo Martins, incurable ladies’ man and author of trashy novels set on The Wild West, accepts an invitation from his best friend Harry Lime and arrives in Vienna just in time to attend his funeral.
So Rollo, like a noble sheriff from his own stories, decides to solve the mystery.
It is simply a city of undignified ruins which turned that February into great glacier of snow and ice .To put it mildly that what Rollo would know about Harry was not too flattered.
The Third Man then is a depressing story enhanced by picture of destroyed city with some unexpectedly amusing moments, to mention Rollo’s soiree.
535. The Third Man, Graham Greene (1904 - 1991)The film takes place in post–World War II Vienna. It centres on Holly Martins, an American who is given a job in Vienna by his friend Harry Lime, but when Holly arrives in Vienna he gets the news that Lime is dead. Martins then meets with Lime's acquaintances in an attempt to investigate what he considers a suspicious death. ....مرد سوم - گراهام گرین (برگ / نی) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هشتم ماه دسامبر سال 1999 میلادیعنوان: مرد سوم: اثر: گراهام گر
....مرد سوم - گراهام گرین (برگ / نی) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هشتم ماه دسامبر سال 1999 میلادیعنوان: مرد سوم: اثر: گراهام گرین؛ مترجم: محسن آزرم؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر چشمه، 1390، در 159 ص، شابک: 9786002290175؛ موضوع: فیلمنامه ها، نویسندگان قرن 20 متهران، انتشارات برگ، 1376، در 114 ص، شابک: 9644710231، چاپ دوم 1378، با ترجمه عباس اکبریتهران، نشر نی، 1377، در 216 ص، 8 صفحه تصویر، شابک: 9643123839، با ترجمه مجید اسلامیهشدار اگر این فیلمنامه را هنوز نخوانده اید و میخواهید آن را بخوانید از خوانش ادامه این نگاره خودداری کنید: پس از پایان جنگ جهانی دوم، هالی مارتینز (جوزف کاتن) که نویسنده رمان‌های عامه پسند وسترن در آمریکاست، برای دیدار دوست دوران کودکی خویش هری لایم (اورسن ولز) به شهر وین می‌آید؛ اما درمییابد همانروز، هری در یک تصادف رانندگی کشته شده‌ است؛ در مراسم خاکسپاری لایم، مارتینز با دو افسر انگلیسی به نام‌های گروهبان پین و سرگرد کالووی، که پیگیر پرونده ی فعالیت‌های مشکوک لایم هستند، ملاقات می‌کند.
Graham Greene to my mind somewhat stuffily separated his narrative books for much of his career into two categories—fiction and “entertainments”—such as this noir novel, The Third Man. The book was written (or at least published) after the screenplay he produced for the film by the same name (1949, directed by Carol Reed, featuring Joseph Cotton and Orson Welles).
Novelist Holly Martins is haunted by the news of the death of his friend Harry Lime, who had offered him a job.
Maybe better to see the film then read the screenplay or novel.
داستان خوبی داشت اما زیاد سلیقه من نبودشاید بیشتر بهعنوان طرح فیلم میتونست جذاب باشه.ترجمه آقای آزرم هم البته خیلی خوب بود!
داستان خوبی داشت اما زیاد سلیقه من نبودشاید بیشتر به‌عنوان طرح فیلم می‌تونست جذاب باشه.ترجمه آقای آزرم هم البته خیلی خوب بود!
Εμένα όμως με ξετρελαίνουν καθώς για μια στιγμή βλέπω λίγο μέσα στα μεγάλα μυαλά των δημιουργών.
Μικρές εξομολογήσεις που ίσως αποκαλύπτουν ανθρώπινες αδυναμίες για εμένα αποτελούν μικρές εμμονές μια ευφυίας.Η ιστορία είναι μικρή, εξαιρετικά γραμμένη, γρήγορη.
Το ταλέντο του Γκριμ στην σκιαγράφηση της συλλογικής ματαιότητας των επιδιώξεών μας είναι παρόν, σίγουρα όμως τιθασευμένο.
Είναι αυθύπαρκτο, μια κινηματογραφική περιπέτεια της εποχής από μόνο του.Διασκεδαστικό, για όποιον γνωρίζει τον Γκράχαμ Γκριν και θέλει μια μικρή δόση από την πένα του.
Όχι γιατί δεν είναι καλό τούτο εδώ, αλλά οι 160 σελίδες του θα φανούν τόσο λίγες σε μια πρώτη γνωριμία με τον σπουδαίο Βρετανό!
Hollo Martins chega em uma Viena pós guerra e descobre que seu amigo de colégio Harry Lime acaba de morrer em um acidente ;tendo sido atropelado por um veículo.
Hollo acha as circunstâncias da morte do amigo muito suspeitas e Seguindo sua consciência, decide investigar por conta própria para tentar limpar o nome do amigo que está sendo acusado de vários crimes pela polícia local.
Em sua investigação descobre várias coisas sobre seu amigo e descobre também que havia um terceiro homem na cena do acidente que pode ser crucial para a resolução desse acidente.
Um grande clássico cheio de intrigas e suspense.
But when his old friend Harry Lime invites him to Vienna, he jumps at the chance.
With exactly five pounds in his pocket, he arrives only just in time to make it to his friend's funeral.
The victim of an apparently banal street accident, the late Mr. Lime, it seems, had been the focus of a criminal investigation, suspected of nothing less than being "the worst racketeer who ever made a dirty living in this city." Martins is determined to clear his friend's name, and begins an investigation of his own...Can't go on without the theme tune.
Set in Vienna at the end of World War II, the reader is immediately struck off balance by a turbulent, blighted world.
Side by side on the same block are lovely old apartment houses and blackened craters.
It's obvious that GG didn't write this for publication, but as a sketch for a screenplay; though his characterizations are, as always, razor-sharp, the finessing of words is not as keenly honed as in, say, The Heart of the Matter, or The End of the Affair.
I actually preferred this Harry Lime, a reckless, amoral schoolboy, to Orson Welles' ominous, obvious heavy.This is a jaded, cynical, discomfiting little story.
[9/10] this was a bit too short and I thought the movie format suited the story better.
I am not implying the novella is not worth checking out.
Worked well here, too.
Πόσο καλός ειναι ο Greene; Κακώς δεν έχω ασχοληθεί όσο πρέπει, μόνο το Τέλος Μιας Σχέσης εχω διαβάσει κ αυτό πριν πολλά χρόνια.
Η τυπική επίσκεψη στο φίλο του Χάρι, ξεκινάει ανάποδα αφού απ'το αεροδρόμιο πάει στο νεκροταφείο για να προλάβει την κηδεία του φίλου.Με αφετηρία ότι δεν έχει πειστεί οτι πρόκειται για ατύχημα, ο ήρωας του βιβλίου περιφέρεται στη διχοτομημένη πόλη με τον Greene να δίνει όση ένταση πρέπει πριν λύσει το μυστήριο.
Απ'τις μοναδικές περιπτώσεις που το βιβλίο γράφεται μετά το σενάριο που οδήγησε στην βραβευμένη ταινία με πρωταγωνιστή τον Wells.Προφανώς, δεν είναι στο επίπεδο της Σχέσης, είναι πολύ πιο γρήγορο αλλά κ διασκεδαστικό.
3.5Buen libro de misterio para leer en una sola tarde. Lo recomiendo.
Tomas Ross being the best living thriller writer in the Netherlands these days.The book starts with a message by the writer in which he explains that the story was never meant as a book but was written as a treatment for a movie, and that any difference in story is due to the fact that the story of movie was changed by the director at a later date.So why read the book, that is simple the movie is brilliant and you cannot fail to see the face of Orson Welles when you read the story.
And hearing the brilliant music echoing, The zither music score, in my mind as created by Anton Karas.The book is situated in a post WWII Vienna in which Rollo Martins arrives on invitation of friend Harry lime.
.وقتی این کتاب رو میخونی سرمای وین و سلطه ی چهار قدرت انگلیس،آمریکا،شوروی و فرانسه که لابلای جملات پنهان شده به عمق وجودت نفوذ میکنه......داستان رفاقت....تعلیق....بی اعتناییداستان نابودی انسانیت.ادای دین محسن آزرم به فیلم مرد سوم.فقط ای کاش این کلمه ی ظاهراً رو کمتر توی جمله هاش به کار میبست.ولی از این که بگذریم ترجمه ی خوب و روونی داره.دیدن فیلم مرد سوم هم به شدت بعد از خوندن کتاب توصیه میشه.
«خوب که بهش فکر میکنم، همهی ما آدمهای بیچارهای هستیم.»ساعت ۱۲ شب که کتاب رو شروع کردم، برنامهم این بود که فصل اول و دوم رو بخونم و بخوابم.
ساعت ۲:۳۰ همینطور که به سقف زل زده بودم داشتم به این فکر میکردم ما آدمها واقعا بیچاره هستیم.
تا قبل این کتاب شاید ۲-۳ تا رمان جنایی بیشتر نخونده بودم و به نظرم ژانر جنایی یک ژانر صرفا سرگرمکننده میاومد.
گراهام گرین توی این کتاب ۱۲۸ صفحهای تمام تصوراتم رو نسبت به کتابهای جنایی عوض کرد.داستان توی سرمای وین «ویران و غمزده»ی بعد از جنگ جهانی دوم میگذره و از زبان
«خوب که بهش فکر می‌کنم، همه‌ی ما آدم‌های بیچاره‌ای هستیم.»ساعت ۱۲ شب که کتاب رو شروع کردم، برنامه‌م این بود که فصل اول و دوم رو بخونم و بخوابم.
ساعت ۲:۳۰ همین‌طور که به سقف زل زده بودم داشتم به این فکر می‌کردم ما آدم‌ها واقعا بیچاره هستیم.
تا قبل این کتاب شاید ۲-۳ تا رمان جنایی بیشتر نخونده بودم و به نظرم ژانر جنایی یک ژانر صرفا سرگرم‌کننده می‌اومد.
بیشتر از جذابیت داستان، نگاه و طرز فکر گراهام گرین برام جالب بود.
قطعا و حتما بیشتر از گراهام گرین خواهم خوند.
Noir murder mystery - enjoyable in its stagey language. Not Greene's best work though because it was a draft for the movie screenplay of the same name.
Graham Greene's, "The Third Man" is a wonderful mystery (thriller) set in post war Vienna with the legendary character of Harry Lime; a notorious racketeer selling poisoned penicillin to children's hospitals and doctors, at exorbitant prices, resulting in the death and disabling of innocent victims.Mr. Graham originally wrote this as a screenplay which was made into the legendary movie "The Third Man" starring the great Orson Welles and Joseph Cotton. He later wrote the book, which is slightly different than movie, but just as great. I recommend the book and the movie. You will not be disappointed.
Who'd have thought it?!"I never knew Vienna between the wars, and I am too young to remember the old Vienna with its Strauss music and its bogus easy charm; to me it is simply a city of undignified ruins which turned that February into great glaciers of snow and ice.
A Russian soldier in a fur cap goes by with a rifle over his shoulder, a few tarts cluster round the American Information Office, and men in overcoats sip ersatz coffee in the windows of the Old Vienna."The other aspect I enjoyed about The Third Man was that this wasn't so much of a thriller which was meant to be taken seriously anymore.
مثلا "از قول جان" و یا "آفتاب عالم تاب" چه نیازی به کسره روی کلمات اول دارند؟ دوم آنکه اسامی که هزار شکل ممکن است خوانده شود چرا پانویس انگلیسی نشده اند؟ ترجمه در بسیاری از قسمتها نارساست و شاید خواندن متن اصلی رهگشا تر باشد.از همه بدتر؟ موخره ی نویسنده است که گویی آنوسی ست از کتاب های دیگر این نویسنده و نویسندگان دیگر.از متن کتاب*: (پس از تیر خوردن)از کنار جنازه گذشت و رفت جایی دور از دسترس،در تاریکی.چی باعث میشود آدمی که نومید است،بخواهد چند دقیقه ای دیگر به زندگی اش اضافه کند؟ حالا این خصوصیت خوبی است یا نه، من که در این مورد نظری ندارم.*قسمتی از کتاب(و فیلم) هست که در صحنه معروف چرخ و فلک، دیالوگی رد و بدل میشود که همه جا نقل شده.دیالوگ بینهایت زیبایی است من از تکرار آن می پرهیزم.
I read this book for two reasons.
It was part of a challenge...a book set in Austria.
I also read and loved another book by this author.
As far as the Austria part, I felt this book gave only a limited description and not of the part of Austria I think of.
And....I didn't like this nearly as much as The End of the Affair.
Either way, it was just ok for me.
I did like Rollo Martins and I wanted to find out what happened to Harry.
I'm not sure I liked the way it was narrated.
ترجمهی آقای آزرم بسیار بد بود. نتوانستم با کتاب ارتباط برقرار کنم.
ترجمه‌ی آقای آزرم بسیار بد بود. نتوانستم با کتاب ارتباط برقرار کنم.
The story is told as the recollections of Calloway, the English Colonel running the police in the British quarter of Vienna, post WWII.
He explains the story of Rollo Martins, a novelist and friend of a British man living in Vienna, Harry Lime.
The International Patrol turn up to arrest Anna (The IP are made up of the duty officer from the Russian, British, American and French forces, who drive about and jointly make decisions in the evenings as a police force):There is a lot of comedy in these situations if you are not directly concerned.
Mystery novels usually create a feeling of being pulled through the plot, allowing me to look at only the things that promote the mystery, and finally leading me to a predestined conclusion.
I much prefer novels where a world is created wherein human nature and chance drive the plot towards an ending that is as mysterious as life itself.Then there is Greene’s writing.
This usually results in a dark feeling of human exposure that permeates the best of his stories.
Fans of noir will probably enjoy Greene’s setting, but fans of Greene will be left wishing for more.The best aspect of The Third Man exists in the mechanics of the tale.
بنظر من كه يك رمان پليسي خيلي خيلي معمولي بود. و بجز فضاي داستان كه فضاي اتريش در خلال جنگ جهاني به تصوير ميكشيد، هيچ نكته ي خاصي نداشت.
It is told in first person – from the point of view of Inspector Calloway while he spies on Rollo Martins, a writer of American pulp westerns who has arrived in Vienna at the behest of a man named Harry Lime.
But Inspector Calloway mostly takes a back seat and narrates how the lecherous but clever Rollo Martins solves the case of Harry Lime’s mysterious death in a car accident.
Rollo Martins is the main character while Calloway provides context – the post-war Vienna with its scenes of devastation, under a power sharing agreement between America, France, Britain and Russia.
I know it's an old story but it does feel dated... and abridged (though it isn't)... and really written for the screen (which it is). Disappointing.
Greene knew he would be able to edit it when turning it into a script and thus may not have focussed too much on writing the perfect novel.
As I thought The Third Man was a very well-written and well developed novel, I am quite excited to be reading more by this author.
An interesting feature of Greene's writing is the way in which he inserts humour.
I'd also recommend seeing the film by Carol Reed, which is, in a very interesting way quite different from the novel.
I've loved some of Greene's other books but am rather lukewarm on this one.This was actually written as a pre-writing exercise for a commissioned screenplay for a proposed movie.
Greene apparently was having trouble writing a screenplay from scratch and decided to write a novella from scratch then base his screenplay off of that.
The novella wasn't originally intended to be published.That tidbit of history is probably why it's more action focused and less character focused than his other books.
I was hoping I'd still enjoy it, but it's just not as complex and polished as the other books by him that I've read.
The story follows the movements of Rollo Martens, a dime western writer during the immediate time period right after WW II in Vienna, Austria, while the story is actually written by a British police inspector who is following Rollo's movements while he tracks down the activities of his old friend, Harry Lime.
At times in a single sentence, he refers to Rollo as one person and Martens as another, despite the fact that they are the same person.....he is referring to how each entity in the same man would react to certain situations as the multiple personalities of the same man.
I will definitely read more by Greene and, in fact, have OUR MAN IN HAVANA in my reading queue.
A writer of cheap westerns is called to post war Vienna by an old school friend.
It's also divided up into 4 sections ruled over by four different winning countries from World War II - France, America, Great Britain and Russia.
The first three countries all get on fairly well but relations with the Russian section are deteriorating which makes it confusing and disconcerting for both civilians and the police force.
Although the movie and this novelette are very similar the book provides more detail and it's easier to follow all of the twists and turns.
