https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3760.Diamonds_Are_Forever
(A-) 81% | Very GoodNotes: James Bond fights evil American capitalists, escapes by road, air, rail and sea, and has his profanities bleeped in-text.
Life, though, proves a whole lot more interesting and fun and exciting, when you toss a cement wall in the middle of the highway every once in a while.While I enjoyed DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER, the main bad dude felt a bit nebulous, almost like an evil presence more than an evil person.
And while the action was present and accounted for, it felt a bit less than full throttle, and the scenes seemed to end much too quickly.I’ve enjoyed the Bond study thus far, simply because of his vast influence, and I’m happy to continue my journey, but I am thankful there’s no test at the end.Cross-posted at Robert's Reads
Bond slips into the diamond smuggling market and the American mafia.
Not a bad installment in the Bond series.
There are some nice descriptions of characters and places, but they do tend to slow down the action a bit.
I was listening to this on audiobook and during a moment when I wasn't paying the closest of attention, I thought I heard a distressingly racist passage.
Maybe I should have, but ya know, I just didn't feel like wallowing in that kind of mire.
If I were black, I'd probably just stay away from the Bond series all together.
James Bond meets the Godfather.Ian Fleming’s fourth Bond novel, first published in 1956, explores American crime, especially in the west and around Las Vegas.
I thought of Lee Strasberg’s soliloquy in Francis Ford Coppola’s 1974 The Godfather II when he described Moe Green and the formation of Vegas.
As in most (all?) Bond novels there is also a fair amount of gambling going on throughout the book.007 is sent to investigate an international diamond smuggling operation that begins in South Africa and leads our hero to the American shores.
For Fleming, widely loved (and sometimes derided) for his sexy Bond Girls, this detail reveals a kind of turn to sensitivity about women not seen in the early books.
The plot, well, it’s a kind of a madcap caper, sort of a Fleming spy homage to American noir writers like Dashiell Hammett, whose Nick and Nora screwball patter gets honored sometimes through the talk between Bond and Case.1971 film (with Sean O’Connery) trailer:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9yOam...PS: I am, because I am reading some books, interested in Fleming/Bond racism.
She acts very tough and standoffish and gives James a hard time (definitely a difference from most women, who just kneel in front of him and start begging him to have sex with them), but inside she's just scared of men and afraid of letting herself feel something for someone who she believes is on the wrong side of the law (in her mind, criminal men are scum - like the men who raped her).Here's some Tiffany for you: Listen, you Bond person, I'm as happy as a cricket.
پس این بخشی از یک رویا نیست و من روی صندلی عقب استادیلاک نشستهام. این دامن تیفانی است که زیر سرم است آن فیلکس است و ما داریم به سرعت به سوی جایی امن میتازیم، جایی که دکتر، حمام، کمی غذا و نوشیدنی داشته باشد و بشود ساعتهای بیپایان خوابید. باند تکان خورد. دست تیفانی را توی موهایش احساس کرد. انگار که بخواهد به باند بگوید همانطور که امید دارد، همه چیز واقعی است. او دوباره لم داد و چیزی نگفت. از هر ثانیه لذت برد و به صدای آنها و صدای حرکت تایرها روی جاده گوش سپرد.از متن کتاب
پس این بخشی از یک رویا نیست و من روی صندلی عقب استادیلاک نشسته‌ام. این دامن تیفانی است که زیر سرم است آن فیلکس است و ما داریم به سرعت به سوی جایی امن می‌تازیم، جایی که دکتر، حمام، کمی غذا و نوشیدنی داشته باشد و بشود ساعت‌های بی‌پایان خوابید. باند تکان خورد. دست تیفانی را توی موهایش احساس کرد. انگار که بخواهد به باند بگوید همان‌طور که امید دارد، همه چیز واقعی است. او دوباره لم داد و چیزی نگفت. از هر ثانیه لذت برد و به صدای آن‌ها و صدای حرکت تایرها روی جاده گوش سپرد.از متن کتاب
I wasn't at all drawn to the book I read, and I've since sampled a few others, and to me they're repellently dated.So this 1971 outing is based on the 1956 novel, and marks the last *canonical* film Connery made.
Never Say Never Again wasn't a Broccoli-produced film, and made use of a story not ever precisely made into a novel, so...Jill St. John spends a good deal of time scantily clothed.
So, well, it was Bond so it was better than boring; but it lacked something, so I can't give it a good rating.
There are plenty of typical Bond capers which include passing himself off as someone else, getting entangled with a woman while undercover (haha) and converting her to the right side (i.e. Bond's side), blowing things up, gambling, and trying to foil the bad guys while Bond is being rescued himself by his friends.As you know, I'm not a huge fan of James Bond himself, but in this novel he actually acknowledges how much he owes to his friend Felix Leiter.
But, as I said, it looks like he's come a long way since Live and Let Die where he described Solitaire as his "prize".The characters I enjoyed most were, as in the other books, Bond's evil counterparts, except that in Diamonds Are Forever, the best baddies are not the criminal masterminds but their two henchmen: Wint and Kidd.
(The theme songs are nearly as important to me as the films themselves.) For those of us who pay attention (or at least remember to go back to do a little research), Guy Hamilton also directed this one in addition to Goldfinger.Having just finished On Her Majesty's Secret Service yesterday and being pleasantly surprised by how much it didn't actually suck, reading Diamonds Are Forever today was sort of a return to the meh-hood of the previous Bond books I've read.Here's my theory: Bond doesn't belong in America.
5/10Probably the weakest Bond novel in the series to this point which was somewhat surprising to me as the film is a fond favourite (who would have thought that the screen and page could differ?!).
The setup is no different to any other, Bond meets M and gets his mission (I do enjoy the relationship these two have), Bond sets off on mission and finds a lady to admire and try to woo (book Bond is not as suave with the women as film Bond), Bond does a bit of shooting and puzzle solving, Bond gets the bad guy and the mission is a success.
How do I find myself with feelings of sadness for James and his life of international duplicity? Still, after 4 Bond novels, the end of the adventure leaves me with soft feelings for the often misogynist 007. Who knew???This was a well crafted piece. Good story, somewhat more assertive female foil and nice continuity. Now to #5.
The blandest Bond volume I've read. Normal amounts of sexism, imperialism, and racism. Rather dull.
Connery. No rough diamond. To discover just who is filching British diamonds from an African mine, James Bond is sent undercover along a smuggling pipeline to follow it to the end. With Fleming you always get well-researched background detail rendered with a journalist’s eye, but for me the sojourn in the racing world of Saratoga slowed the story down a furlong or two in less interesting territory. That said, the pace soon picks up as Bond flees through the desert near Las Vegas with gangster
No rough diamond.
To discover just who is filching British diamonds from an African mine, James Bond is sent undercover along a smuggling pipeline to follow it to the end.
That said, the pace soon picks up as Bond flees through the desert near Las Vegas with gangster ‘Mr Spang’, nicely described as ‘one of the brutal, theatrical, overblown, dead end adults’, pursuing him on the Cannonball express.
That is until crack shot Bond sends him to a thundering end along a rusty branch line with a bullet from his Beretta.
A climactic encounter with a pair of brutal killers aboard the QEII puts a dramatic flourish on the caper.Diamonds Are Forever was one of Ian Fleming’s earlier Bond works.
The fun is in seeing how Fleming extracted his hero from the mad scenarios where the author had deposited him.The period descriptions are always one of the best parts of these classic Bond novels and Diamonds Are Forever doesn’t disappoint.
But that’s a part of revisiting period genre works and it doesn’t detract from how entertaining the novel is otherwise.This Bond reprint series is a gift for the character’s fans.
As oppossed to say a Mike Hammer novel (a character who is referenced here) who lives in a kind of Sin City version of New York, Bond is a real character in the real world.The movies would have you believe that James Bond is only ever saving the world, but in this novel he's simply smashing a diamond smuggling ring (although the villain's hideout is called Spectre).
Food is again prevelant in this book, though not as much as in Live and Let Die.)If there is a flaw then it's that the main villain isn't strong enough.
Of course, in this modern age of witnessing just how little the federal government can accomplish (and accomplish well), it is really no surprise the James Bond can, singlehandedly, do more than any agency of the American government can do.
Ian Fleming was just ahead of his time.Anyway, like the other Bond books (that I've read) in this series, this one was reasonably enjoyable.
I'm enjoying getting to know the "real" James Bond, since up to now, I've only been familiar with the movie version.
Mr. Bond is really much more about the work than he is about the ladies and I rather prefer that.Carry on!
Another entertaining Bond adventure which finds 007 on the trail of an American diamond smuggling ring. It takes him from London to New York and ultimately to Las Vegas. On the way he encounters old CIA pal, Felix Leiter who now works for Pinkertons and makes the acquaintance of lovely Tiffany Case. As always there is lots of action, but many nice moments with Miss Case. Entertaining and an exciting read. It's been fun working through the Bond series again.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
Best one yet. Still seems a little shallow in the character department, and Bond falling deeply and helplessly in love every book is getting a touch old.
Sometimes I feel guilty about reading the James Bond novels, since Bond and Fleming are racist misogynistic snobs.
With this book, I have no reason to feel guilty, except that I finished it.
This is a terrible book with tons of padding and travelogue in between the brief action sequences; it reads like a novella that Fleming's editors told him to triple in size.
To get there you must read 120 pages of what Bond ate at the local restaurants, learned about Las Vegas and Saratoga Springs, and felt like doing to kill time.
One of the weaker Bond novels in the series, this installment is more akin to a crime novel and a spy thriller that you'd normally associate with Fleming's famous agent.007 is tasked into tracking down a diamond smuggling organization from Africa through Europe to eventually Las Vegas.The discrimination of Bonds travels are fascinating and one of my favorite aspects of the book.There's quite long sections where he's visiting a casino and a racetrack.Even though this isn't the strongest entry in the series I still found it an easy and enjoyable read.
Another excellent instalment in the James Bond series. I have probably read these about three times now.
He's got such swagger and I love listening to narrators incorporate his twang through his dialogue.
He's a total cowboy babe and I would rather read his tumbleweed exploits rather than James Bond's.My favorite part of the book was at the horse races.
I hope I can find more audiobooks narrated by him in the future that shares the same frenzy as the horse races.Tiffany Case was the Bond girl in Diamonds are Forever and she fit well.
The adventure and glamour of Diamonds are Forever was exciting but there were moments where my interest dipped.
Felix is sporting a hook for a hand and presumably and artificial leg due to the shark attack from Live and Let Die, so that's a pretty major continuity change when compared to the movies.Actually the books have been very different than the movies so far, in most cases only the title and some of the character names being directly related to the novels.
I don't know why I waited so long to finally read the James Bond novels but I'm enjoying them all.
If you're a Bond fan, it's probably worth reading at least of a few of the novels to give you an idea of the character's roots.
Along the way Bond meets and falls in love with one of the members of the criminal gang, Tiffany Case.It was interesting to compare the plot of the book to the 1971 movie of the same name.
Tiffany Case is portrayed as intelligent, strong and a survivor and is probably Fleming's most fully fleshed out female character so far but in the movie she is portrayed as shallow, dumb eye candy.Bond’s character is expanded further in Diamonds Are Forever and builds on the details revealed in the previous three novels.
Bond actually falls in love with Case, the first time he has done so since Vesper Lynd in Casino Royale.
So out of the four I've listened to in this audiobook journey, this story is by far the best and most interesting of them all.Just a reminder to the Social Justice Warriors out there that will be offended by derogatory, misogynistic, racist, xenophobic language: Ian Fleming is not for you.
Bond meets the lovely Tiff Case, a rather rude and straight spoken woman with a horrendous history, who is currently working for the American Mob in finding a smuggler for the gems to get them from Britain to America.
But because it involves the Mafia, the spy element feels slightly more authentic than it has in previous novels.Or it would if Fleming bothered to give his villains depth.
I get the sense that Fleming spoke with a contact in the FBI, but that he only recalled what confirmed his stereotypes.Bond himself is a terrible terrible spy.
That girl, a streetwise American named "Tiffany Case" is frigid until Bond melts her with his tough, forceful love.
The opening chapter's downright poetic.After enjoying Moonraker, I figured I'd read a few more 007 novels.
Not much can be said about the literary merits of "Diamonds are Forever".
You read it to draw comparisons with the movie.
Las Vegas gets the blunt end of Fleming's pen, described as a noisy, gnashing place where old ladies clutch mindlessly at slot machines and every casino is mobbed up.
He gets so bored he decides to flip things over with some sudden improvisation work that exposes him as a potential risk to the Spangled Mob. Since Fleming seems to share Bond's contempt for the situation, this doesn't succeed in making things more interesting.
This becomes routine - something dangerous happens, Bond gets the job, gets the girl, kills the bad guys in spectacular fashion. By now, Fleming no longer wants to impress with his vast knowledge of high-class fashion and tastes, instead, writes a very down-to-earth Bond, that simply works.Routine, good routine, and now I wonder why I can't remember a thing from the movie with the same name. However, while forgettable, the story is enjoyable, and meeting Leiter again feels like Bond is not the loner I imagined he would be, instead, he's more relatable. All in all, good entertainment prose.
