https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30010.The_Complete_Stories_Vol_1
If have not read all of the stories in this collection so this review/rating is only for the stories listed below (which means it may change over time as I read more of them):The Dead Past: Great short story (actually a novelette) dealing with advanced technology being kept from the public and the conflict that creates with "scientific freedon." The parallels to atomic power and all the benefits and problems that arose as a result are clear.
The Foundation of S.F. Success: a short, clever poem in which Asimov explains exactly what it takes to be a great science fiction writer.Franchise: One of the early "multivac" stories in which the computer has taken over the selection of government officials (including the President) with the help of "one lucky voter." Classic Asimov.

This is a collection of short stories by Isaac Asimov from the heyday of post-WWII science fiction. Atomic age blue sky stuff with a sense of the frontier in it a still with a bit of optimism in future. It is always fun to read fiction from a time when the future seemed like a good thing.
Es curioso que haya comenzado por el tomo 2 de esta colección y ahora esté concluyendo el tomo 1, pero, sea cual sea el orden que haya elegido, leer a Asimov siempre será un tremendo placer para mi.
El volumen es extenso (816 páginas) pero acá están presentes algunos de los cuentos e ideas más brillantes desarrolladas en la ciencia ficción.
No por nada Asimov, además de haber sido un hombre intelectualmente brillante, es considerado uno de los grandes maestros del género.
Una sola cosa me atreveré a criticarle al hombre que desarrolló las tres leyes de la robótica: la poesía, definitivamente, no era lo suyo.
Hay de todo, desde los cuentos muy cortos de una página hasta otros que rozan el rango de novela (como, por ejemplo, El hombre bicentenario, del que luego se hizo una película que nunca he querido ver).
Hay uno en concreto que habla de un planeta con seis soles [físicamente improbable, pues la trayectoria caótica del planeta lo acercaría o alejaría demasiado de las estrellas, haciéndolo bastante inhóspito para la vida, pero a Asimov se le perdonan muchas cosas] en el que sólo se hace de noche una vez cada 1000 años.
He's probably best known for his science fiction novels, but I think his best fiction by far is to be found in his short stories.
It might very well have been the first Asimov, maybe even the first work of science fiction, I ever read, and it's amazing, because it forever shifted my perception of the meaning of time.
As he mentions in the Introduction, it's one the "Science Fiction Writers of America have voted the best science fiction story ever written." It's certainly a contender.5) "Profession" - One of those I immediately remembered just from the title.
Hubo algunos que no entendí y unos pocos que no me gustaron, pero amé la gran mayoría, desde los que me dejaron completamente impactada, como los graciosos, los que me dejaron pensativa y hasta con dudas existenciales, otros con mensajes interesantes y hasta uno que marcó por siempre mi corazón que hasta me hizo llorar, literal, iba en el Metro, que pena...Seguramente vuelva a leer muchos de ellos y recomiende muchos otros porque me gustaron bastante.
After reading the 25 short stories in this collection, I think I have three comments: (1) This is a book of jokes, but many of them are lame (2) Isaac clearly is a chauvinist, and maybe even something worse (3) Some of these are quite good.
This passage is even unintentionally funny - clearly, the insult is not felt to be directed against his wife for possessing a mind presumed unimaginative, it is for presuming that he, himself, believes in daft stories.In "Jokester", computer analyst Timothy Whistler walks past a secretary's desk (naturally female) and reflects on this archaic item in this computer-ridden world of the twenty-first century, a human secretary.
Pese a su voluminosa extensión, se lee bien rápido; no hay cuentos malos, como mucho pasables; por el contrario, la mayoría se destaca de una u otra manera, marcando la pauta para diversas temáticas de la ciencia ficción del siglo XX.
Particularmente, no encontré fundamento en las críticas que se hacen de Asimov como demasiado cerebral o limitado en el desarrollo de sus personajes: por el contrario, lo veo como una ventaja, para desarrollar historias sólidas y concisas con un objetivo claro en mente por parte del autor, y a menudo con un carácter visionario (y con el agregado de poder hacerlo en pocas páginas).
Maybe it's because there is a recurring theme in all these stories, but it took surprisingly short amount of time to familiarize with every character in every story, enough for me to care.
Among his futuristic, sometimes dystopian, stories involving space and time travel, there were a select few that stayed with me till the end:The dead past, the first story of the book, shows that not all knowledge should be sought and not all scientific advancements are good for humanity.
After that it was settled, I HAD to read as much of this man's work as possible.How can I even begin to express my love for this collection of short stories?
I don't know how Asimov manages to consistently do it, but he makes futuristic technology seem like a very close reality.
Quite often I forgot that I was reading a man from the 1950's vision of the future.
No se trata sólo de la imaginación, el futuro, lo que puede suceder si ocurre una cosa o sucede otra, la ciencia como herramienta y la única salvación, de lo posible o lo imposible, y la ficción como un escape de la realidad; es la manera de contarlo, de escribirlo y de pensarlo.
Se trata de ver el pasado, entender el presente y comprender el futuro que puede llegar.
La posibilidad de jugar con todo esto, de sentir que no hay barreras, que nada te restringe de creer que se puede realizar, de comprender la simpleza de la dificultad que se plantea, es genial.
It's amazing that even after half a century has passed, and humanity has advanced quite a bit, Asimov's work, even in terms of human relationships, raises questions we haven't even begun exploring.
In addition to being a fantastic science fiction tale, it also offers a wonderful take on the origin of the universe.The other story that's interesting happens to be Franchise, whose storyline is that by studying patterns of human behaviour over a long timeframe, Multivac is able to use one person as a representative sample and elect the US president basis his choice of candidates.
I guess humanity hasn't progressed as fast as Asimov imagined.
Después de haber leído este libro estoy convencido de que Isaac Asimov es una mente suprema del universo.
Todos los cuentos de este primer volumen son fascinantes, ingeniosos, divertidos y abrumadores.
No son agobiantes las atmósferas (como suele ocurrir con algunos libros de ciencia ficción) ni tampoco aburren ni atormentan con su pesimismo.
Los personajes son tan reales y complejos que casi podrían materializarse entre nosotros y darnos una cachetada.
No hay duda de que leeré con entusiasmo el segundo tomo.
Sucede con los grandes maestros como Isaac Asimov que se necesita tiempo (¿toda la vida?) para asimilarlos y aprovecharlos.
It would be hard to rate this as five stars since it is a collection of various stories the Good Doctor wrote.
Some are better than others, and a very few are not particularly good.
It gives you an excellent idea why Asimov was so celebrated.
His writing was good, almost always, and frequently great.
Strikebreaker is really excellent!
Of course, Nightfall is in this volume and is likely the best known short story.
Note, this is the original short story, not the longer book he collaborated on.
For a 600+ page volume, this really held my interest!
I have volume 2 on order....
Una colección que no tiene desperdicio, los cuentos de Asimov tratan diversidad temas, en todos, el autor parece conocerlos con profundidad, motivo por el cual se lo considera un erudito. En cada ocasión, el lector es ubicado en un momento determinado del tiempo, bajo diversas condiciones propias de dimensiones y realidades diferentes pero con un leve parecido a la nuestra, lo que logra así conectarnos con esa ficción y finalmente sorprendernos y generalmente dejando una sonrisa al final de cada cuento.
It is always his characters or his situations that showcase the severity of a situation or the shocking nature of a revelation, rather than him telling us and then basking in smugness - a vice that manner other short-story writers suffer from.Yet do not be fooled into thinking that Asimov is purely a writer of mysteries - he deals constantly with ordinary men and women in extra-ordinary circumstances, revealing perhaps only the mysteries of the human mind and psyche, instead of solving crimes and alien puzzles.
48 entries after the Intro, including some non-stories like Rejection Slips.my top 5:ProfessionSpell My Name with an SThe Ugly Little BoyNightfallUnto the Fourth Generationnext 5:Satisfaction Guaranteed The Immortal BardThe Last QuestionC-Chute It's Such a Beautiful DayI could keep going, and these outweigh the few forgettables and things like I'm in Marsport Without Hilda.
This was very cool read. I enjoyed some of the stories better than others, but overall I enjoyed it greatly.
When I say Isaac Asimov is a genius I don't mean that he's an excellent writer who brought great innovation to the sci-fi genre.
To me a genius is someone who is able to conceptualize and imagine something completely new, creative and original.
To me genius comes with the creation of complete novelty, not necessarily with an invention or scientific discovery, merely with an idea.
Most pieces leave me wondering how he thought of his plots, machinery and characters; I am in awe of the stories that only he is able to envision and deliver with great majesty.
In my eyes, Isaac Asimov is a true genius.
It's funny reading vintage sci-fi - there's an element of fantasy and religion that you don't get in the modern stuff, like the short short about the A bomb that feature the cameo.
Women tend to be motivated by romance - Dr Susan Calvin being a notable exception.
I read and reread this for years, and I haven't picked it up for well over a decade.
Doing that now made me re-evaluate it a bit.
Isaac Asimov will always be a name to conjure with, particularly when it comes to stories about robots, but I think now that it's something one outgrows a bit.
I believe that this collection is best read in the same way, one story at a time in between novels by other authors.In spite of the fact that I found it hard to plod through some of the stories, and only occasionally did a few of the stories bump up against what we could call reality, I considered their impact in the time they were published.
Must read stories include: The Last Question, Nightfall, and Profession. I believe Asimov was a true optimist, and he helped me to believe that we should have faith in our abilities, our society, and technology to make our future better. His short stories quickly establish interesting and compelling characters and unfold unpredictably.
Leído en la secundaria. Anotado para próxima relectura en papel junto con The Complete Robot.
Sensacional primer volumen de cuentos. Un placer dejarse llevar por la erudición y maestría en la palabra de este verdadero genio de la escritura.
totally fun short stories that make you think of things you wouldn't otherwise
It is fascinating to me upon reading short stories and sci-fi books from different eras what the major events and preoccupations were during those times.
At the time of Asimov writing these in the 50's computers were becoming a bigger thing.
Asimov also writes of his robots, which were a big thing in the 50's from what I can gather.
"The Last Trump" brings back everyone from the past, to realize that many cannot cope with what the future has become.There are many great stories in this collection to keep one entertained for a good while.
It's great to see his early writings and how they evolved over time.
Este ha sido el segundo libro que he leído de Asimov y me ha gustado mucho, sobre todo para familiarizarse con su estilo, ver algunos elementos recurrentes de su bibliografía y conocer un poco más, o al menos eso me gusta pensar, después de leer relatos como "El pasado muerto" o "Soñar es asunto privado" que además de sumamente entretenidos tienen esa brillante tendencia a la reflexión, vamos, a hacerte pensar un poquito más de la cuenta.
Asimov knew how to write a story.
Unfortunately, the stories here are not good.
This compilation has 25 short stories (although Wikipedia says it should have 46).
They were mostly bad stories, but well written.
"Satisfaction Guaranteed" is the best story, by far, and belongs to the well established Robot's series.
"Dreaming Is a Private Thing" has all the ingredients to be a novel, and as a short story it falls short: too many untold things, and too many interesting ideas.
Go to http://gen.lib.rus.ec/ and get the stories for free, it is not worth buying this.
A wonderful collection of stories. Prescient and thought-provoking in terms of the psychology and AI possibilities. You can forgive the fact that many of the technological predictions are way out, considering Asimov was writing in the 50s. All the Troubles of the World made me gasp, and The Last Question is absolutely the right story to finish on. Highly recommended.
