https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/235390.The_Journal_of_George_Fox
George Fox sounds pretty crazy, but you have to provide a lot of allowance for the difference in the times.
As I was reading this book I am also reading “The Witches: Salem, 1692” by Stacy Schiff, which discuss Puritan religion in America at around the same time that George Fox was preaching.
It would probably be more instructive to approach this topic first through a more modern history of the Quaker religion, and then read George Fox’s work.One interesting aspect of the book is the light in which it shows the UK system of justice.
If he were around today, George Fox would be described as a revolutionary blue collar reformer. Even if you don't like Quakerism or its theology, it's worth reading firsthand stories and thoughts from someone as unique and charismatic as Fox.
He then went around preaching to the masses that they didn't need priests in order to come to God, that the spirit of God could dwell in each one of them and teach them outside of a church building.
He was imprisoned multiple times for not taking off his hat to magistrates or swearing allegiance to the king (because of Jesus' words not to swear) or for gathering with other believers who converted to his teaching and became known as Quakers.
He met with Oliver Cromwell and several of the kings of England and the Netherlands, traveled to the US and the Caribbean, being met with huge crowds wherever he went.
I like it so far, but haven't disciplined myself to sit down and get through it.It is inspiring in some sections, but I get frustrated with his describing the journey part of his history (going from place to place in England), and wading through that to get to the meat of Fox's beliefs.
But it morphed in to a new denomination - maybe because the Anglicans and Puritans rejected Fox's views and persecuted the people called 'Quakers'.Fox was definitely a trouble-maker in the church at that time, and it makes me respect people more in our present day church that stand up and state their beliefs at the expense of ridicule.
Fox and the early Quakers spent so much time in jail for their beliefs.

Thought I'd better read this, as I'm a Quaker.
It was written at what must have been one of the most interesting times of Britain's history.
Also, interesting to see how Quakerism has changed from its humble beginnings.
However, it was really difficult to read so took me quite a long time to plought through.
All of the interesting parts were mixed in with long boring tracts where not a lot happened.
I especially loved the script like quality of GF's arugments with various priests and judges.
I would love to have a time machine so that I could meet him.
The journal of the "Founder" of the Society of Friends. A very inspirational, but long, history of his life and dealings with both people and God. I enjoyed Fox's message, and his example is one to live by. Amazing energy, complete humility, and a very bright example to live up to for Quakers everywhere.
"The Journal of George Fox" is one of the books in the secondary bibliography of my free ebook on comparative mysticism. "The greatest achievement in life" at suprarational.org/gail2012.pdf has been reviewed on Goodreads.
Although I am not a Quaker, this book is one of the most interesting things I've ever read, about George Fox's experiences in creating a new form of Christianity. Very personal and stirring.
The Journal of George Fox is one of the best books a Christian can read. I recommend it to everybody. The amazing life and teachings of a Servant of the Lord.
Interesting...Primary historical documents penned by significant figures in the history of Western Christian development is inherently interesting to me.
See how a denomination is born from a fellow's inability to relate quite like the rest of us do. The first 20 or so pages are the most interesting.
