https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27398.The_Lost_Painting
If you are particularly into Italian history, this book is the equivalent of a snickers bar perfectly cooled in the refrigerator.If you feel meh about the tedious, meticulous process of historical research, despite its finally coming together in spectacularly satisfying ways, you will really really really not like this book.
I think Harr smartly recognized that the story itself is so fabulous FOR RESEARCH LOVERS that it needed no embellishment FOR RESEARCH LOVERS.If I haven't made myself clear yet, unless you like history, research, art, Europe, and/or scavenger hunts, please don't read this book.
It's like The DaVinci Code, only well-written and true! In other words, it's nothing like the DaVinci Code. Harr personalizes the dry world of academic art historians as best he can, by following the principals in this story of a 'lost' Carravaggio recently-found in Ireland. I cannot go so far as to say he 'spices it up,' so the appeal of this book may be limited to art lovers only.
Jonathan Harr is mostly known for writing A Civil Action, which I enjoyed, but didn't find that it left me breathless the way that The Lost Painting did.
The story really gets going with the graduate student, Francesca, looking for evidence about a different Caravaggio painting in a dark and moldy forgotten archive in Italy.
Despite my fairly neutral feelings towards European art, as I read the book, I really understood what it meant to these people to find one of the world's great lost treasures.
The Lost Painting is the best book I have read in a couple of years.
I really enjoy a book set in the art world.
I like the mystery, the sleuthing, the restorations and the thrill of finding masterpieces that have lain hidden for hundreds of years.
This is an account based on the finding of a lost Caravaggio painting, The Taking Of Christ.
I looked the painting up and was amazed at the reality and detail of it.
If I could live another life, I'd love to be an art world sleuth, digging through the layers to find and restore the beauty of the original.
I listened to this on audio and thoroughly enjoyed it.
I haven’t read A Civil Action, and quite frankly after reading this book I never want to read anything by Harr.1. I don’t care that Francesca answered the phone wearing a towel and with wet hair. I don’t care about her thighs. Why do you keep telling me these things?2. Why is so much space give to Francesca’s love life but only 3 pages, less than half, given to what Laura did at the same time? Isn’t Laura more important at this point since she is, you know, actually advancing the needed knowled
I don’t care that Francesca answered the phone wearing a towel and with wet hair.
BTW, why is it Francesca and Laura when all that men are referred to by their last names?4.
Oh and how come there are no dripping wet men to go along with the dripping wet Francesca?5.
And how come Laura, who it seems was just as vital, gets so little time?
Francesca might be smart, but it is really hard to tell that from this book.
It’s actually a shock when she gets into a program and Laura doesn’t.
We read as much about her cruising about Rome on a scooter with her skirts tucked under her firm thighs (really) as we do about her deciphering the coded language of 16th century account books.In short, Harr was obviously crushing on Francesca and she was a willing and detailed source of information about her willingness to head for the beach for a session of tanning rather than make best use of her limited time in an archive.
First of all, it is not a novel, although written to appeal to a reader's sense of "story." If you like Caravaggio, art restoration, seventeenth-century art history, or want a taste of how petty the scholarly art world can be, do give this book a look.
If those kinds of intrigues are NOT up your alley, the style of this book may help you through it anyway!
Apparently Tracy Kidder helped Harr in the process, and their real-life subject matter and prosody are similar.
I like stories grounded in "real" life-- why make up stories when there are so many good ones waiting to be told?
So when a friend emailed me about a Caravaggio, a 1602 painting that hung in the dining room of a Jesuit residence in Dublin, Ireland for nearly 60 years before its authentification, I knew I needed to read Harr's book.Harr's dramatic work of narrative non-fiction begins in an Italian village on a hilltop near the Adriatic coast, a decaying palazzo facing the sea, and in the basement, cobwebbed and dusty, lit by a single bulb, an archive unknown to scholars.
After Francesca Cappelletti stumbles across a clue in that dusty archive, she tracks the painting across a continent and hundreds of years of history.
Read this book quite a few years ago while in a hospital with my daughter. It saved my sanity and eased the stay. Well written a true story about finding a masterpiece of Caravaggio. The painting itself is exquisite, I enjoyed studying it at a historical exibition in Rome. Harr’s writing is captivating; makes you want to find out what’s next and the story he tells will stay with you for a long, long time.
Have you ever read a "popular book" (i.e., a bestseller) with an intended audience so niche it actually gets stuck in a demographic ditch?
This is the poster book for that effect.
A book so enthralled with minutiae it should contain a warning from the surgeon general, "Note: unless an art history major, do not listen to this book-on-cd while operating a motor vehicle." I did enjoy parts of it--especially the section about art preservation and repair.
So, then, how did this get on a bestseller list?
Does this mean that the trend in popular reading is shifting away from Harlequin Romance and genre Mystery?
"Una cosa tremenda"! É assim que este livro começa por referir o entusiasmo dos historiadores de arte nas suas buscas arqueológicas por quadros desaparecidos. E é assim que termino ao ler este livro, com uma sensação de gratidão para com o autor, que colocou em poucas páginas, de uma forma tão escorreita, em formato de romance, todo o trabalho levado a cabo na busca e descoberta de uma obra emblemática de Caravaggio, "A Captura de Cristo".No blog: http://virtual-illusion.blogspot.com/...
35. THE LOST PAINTING: The Quest for a Caravaggio Masterpiece. (2005). Jonathan Harr. ***1/2.This was the second book by this author; his first being the highly successful “A Civil Action.” In this tale, he creates a true-to-life mystery story that revolves around a missing masterpiece from a master from the Italian Baroque, Caravaggio. The painting in question was titled, “The Taking of Christ,” a depiction of Judas’ betrayal of Christ in a garden. Actually, it was not believed to be missing. T
***1/2.This was the second book by this author; his first being the highly successful “A Civil Action.” In this tale, he creates a true-to-life mystery story that revolves around a missing masterpiece from a master from the Italian Baroque, Caravaggio.
Doubts about its authenticity began to arise, however, to the point where two young women – art students at the time – set out to either prove or disprove whether that painting was the true one or not.
The book traces all of the work that dozens of people put in to trace the history of the true painting.
Non è una sola storia, come fa sospettare il titolo: non è solo quella del ritrovamento a Dublino della Cattura di Cristo, un "Caravaggio" di cui si erano perse le tracce.
Tutta la prima metà del libro è infatti un’altra storia a sé, altrettanto "curiosa" e interessante: il confronto tra due San Giovanni Battista romani, apparentemente identici, quello conservato alla Galleria Doria Pamphilj e quello rinvenuto in tempi molto recenti e oggi esposto ai Musei Capitolini.
For my trip to Italy, I picked up this book - recommended by both the Boston Globe and NY Times.
The lost painting is "The Taking of Christ" - an account of how, in 1990, the original was found.
We visited this church to see the paintings - tucked in a corner of the church (though many other people were gazing at these paintings) Also, saw Caravaggio paintings at the Borghese Galleria in Rome and the Uffizi Museum in Florence.
I think this book meant more to me because I actually saw Caravaggio paintings.
The Lost Painting was the perfect book for my trip to Italy.
Excellent! Tells the true art history detective story behind the discovery of Caravaggio's masterpiece The Taking of Christ believed lost for 400 years. Fast-paced and suspenseful. Mr. Harr's writing is lean and descriptive with just the right balance of emotion. Everything needed to tell this fascinating story, nothing more. Loved it.
Se un testo inglese ha un unico autore e due traduttori; se la sua prima parte risulta resa in un italiano sciatto e irritante, quasi illegibile, mentre la seconda fila via bene, il sospetto che uno dei due traduttori abbia sbagliato mestiere è forte.
L'argomento è interessantissimo, e attuale, viste le recenti celebrazioni dei 400 anni dalla morte del sommo pittore milanese.
La storia dei retroscena che portano al ritrovamento di una sua tela perduta, intrigante.
Insomma, una bella lettura, nella quale si "romanza" una realtà con nomi e cognomi.
«...si trattava di un appuntamento al quale nemmeno Francesca si sarebbe mai sognata di presentarsi in ritardo.»
This is, apparently, a real account of the discovery of one of the lost Caravaggio paintings. I went into this thinking it was merely historical fiction, so that was a nice surprise. The author does not change the names of the major players, and talks about his interviews with them. He also gives a great bibliography, complete with books and articles written by those involved in the discovery. It reads a lot like simple historical fiction, but was enjoyable.
As is too often the case some hard working women failed to get the acclaim rendered to a lucky self important male who stumbled into the find of a lifetime.After finishing Harr's book, whose timeline ends circa 1994, I quickly searched the internet and found that the debate over which is the original "The Taking of Christ" has not quite ended.
A newspaper story suggest Harr may have begun a sequel but I am unable to find that a new version has been published.Those who enjoy the art and history of the siecento and who also enjoy a good detective story will find much to appreciate in this book.
A surprisingly good read!I found this in the book exchange box in my town and wasn't aware of it before that.
I have a lifelong interest in painting and art history, so I decided to give it a read....
I was pulled in immediately.
Jonathan Harr managed to keep me engaged in what could have been a boring academic search for a lost painting.
His pacing and character description are great and I had a hard time stopping each night before going to bed.
That doesn't happen often, so I can safely recommend this book to anyone with an interest in art history, especially if you love Caravaggio.
The book seems to at one moment be constructing "scenes" between the characters, describing their interactions and personality with verve, then lapsing into rather dry sections detailing the actual research being done and the state of Caravaggio scholarship in general.
On the whole, the author manages to weave a fairly compelling narrative from these disparate parts, but I have to confess I felt a bit impatient when he seemed to be constructing "scenes" of what took place among the major "characters."I listened to an audio version read by Campbell Scott, whose delivery was a rather bland, hushed monotone.
Harr's book is an account of the recovery of a Caravaggio painting, "The Taking of Christ," that had been missing for several centuries.
The Lost Painting traces the discovery of the original painting, following two Italian art history scholars and a painting conservator as they all but stumble upon it.It's a fascinating topic, but Harr does it a disservice by writing about it as if it wasn't.
Maybe it's my own personal/professional bias, but I found the book most interesting when it dealt with the nitty-gritty details of conservation and authentication, or recounting the (sordid) history of Caravaggio himself.
Scholars had known of the painting and many copies existed, yet Caravaggio's original canvas was lost for hundreds of years.http://www.nationalgallery.ie/Collect...I know I am an art history nerd, but I found this book incredible suspenseful even though almost all the big discoveries were unearthed in archives (tedious work).
The book recounts the contributions of several people, an eminent octogenarian Caravaggio scholar, an Italian art restorer living in Ireland, and a Roman graduate student of art history.
Much of the credit for unearthing The Taking's provenance goes to Francesca Cappelletti, the aforementioned grad student, who was in her twenties at the time and a Master's student.
This book gets 3 stars because Caravaggio went through all the trouble of living a fascinating life.
Harr wrote a 2 star book about him.
The style blends the staid authority of non-fiction writing with the immediacy of narrative, complete with characterization, scenery, and even plot arc.
But Harr's authority as a historian is compromised by his inability to conjure compelling narrative.
The shear facts of history are the only fare that carry the reader to the end in spite of Harr's desperate attempts to make you find something better to read.
Not a very good read.
i absolutely loved his book, a civil action (if you saw the movie, which was terrible, the book is far better), so i'm hoping this one will be just as intriguing. loved it! i learned so much, so even though it wasn't a page turner, i highly recommend it.
A book that started as an article in the Reader's Digest in 1995, this is a fascinating true detective story of how a graduate student and a brilliant art restorer discovered a painting made by Caravaggio.
Part Da Vinci Code, part Caravaggio biography, part survey of Baroque art history. Easy read - very well worth the time spent.
All the sprinkling of Caravaggio, the lives of all the art historians, restorers, students, press—it was a treat for someone wanting to go into the field in some capacity.
Following at times two female graduate students, Francesca Cappelletti and Laura Testa through their archival adventures in Italy, and later, Sergio Benedetti, as he restores and attempts to keep the famed found Caravaggio a secret.
While I pretty much liked the novel like writing of the book, I didn't care too much for the intimate details of some of the people's lives.
It is hard to comment on this book without giving too much away.
You'll learn how the origins of paintings are researched.
(You might be surprised at the state of some of the archives.) You will learn about painting restoration.
How experts on certain artists consulted, and what they look for when helping to determine the authenticity of a painting.
What kind of testing can be done on paintings, and what does it reveal?
There are still some unanswered questions at the end, but the painting is over 400 years old, so the unanswered questions are pretty minor in light of that.
An enjoyable read for an art history mystery.
A glimpse into the art restoration world.One gains an appreciation for tracking down the history and provenance of important paintings from reading this book. The painstaking process of restoring a painting to its original state and the time it takes to do so are also highlighted in this story.
