https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29802.Scott_Pilgrim_Volume_3
4.5/5THE VEGAN POWERS KILLED ME. ACTUAL TEARS DOWN MY FACE. I also liked how the fight was throughout the book instead of only at the end! Now onto the fourth!
Third Level! This is the third book (in a series of six) of “Scott Pilgrim” saga.Creative Team:Creator, writer and illustrator: Bryan Lee O’Malley  PILGRIM’S PATH INTERMIXES  Look, it’s almost 3:30…  Right. It’s almost 3:30, and we’ve been here for a quarter of this book. Let’s call it a night. In the second book, you get flashback chapters of Scott’s past life when he was still a teenager, and while you get basically the same here, there is a key difference here. In the second book, the scenes
One thing is clear, Knives loves Scott beyond her own emotional happiness and physical safety……the power of the first teenage crush!Scott’s love life with Ramona Flowers, still is depending of his effectiveness of beating the League of Ex-Boyfriends in an odd world where, you can accept as totally reasonable, cybernetic enhancements, clothing accesories with subspace unlimited storage capabilities, an unsaid rule that any drummer should be a female one, holey moons, save points, extra life items, and of course, the general acceptance that if you’re vegan, you just have psychic powers!
Scott and his band Sex Bob-Omb square off against the more successful The Clash at Demonhead fronted by his ex, Envy Adams, and featuring the band's bass player/next Evil Ex-Boyfriend of Ramona’s, Todd.
I didn’t love this third volume as much as the last two though I remember adoring it the first time I read it.
But I think it was because Envy Adams is a big part of this book and I don’t think she’s that great a character.
I liked that for the first time in the series Scott behaves like a normal person as he sees Knives feeling down in the dumps and decides to talk to her and bring her back up.
4.5 Estrellas, así como los demás.No pude parar de reír con ciertas escenas. Fue ASOMBROSO. ¿Y Envy (Natalie V.) Adams? La amo.
Also available on the WondrousBooks blog. Oh, Scott Pilgrim, always stay cool. Oh wait, I already finished all the volumes and... yes, you are always cool.This volume picked up speed from the normal story because the big reveal about Envy finally arrived. I had been wondering about her since the first volume because all of the times she was kind of mentioned were pointing obviously to her importance.I really enjoyed the back story in volume 3 and seeing Scott kind of functioning... once. Don't
yes, you are always cool.This volume picked up speed from the normal story because the big reveal about Envy finally arrived.
I liked Envy's looks, even though they were as painfully and as cringe-worthily as everything else obviously from the 2000s in the series.I liked the little twist with the two exes to respectively Scott and Ramona, and Todd was probably the most hilarious ex, without trying to be such, of course.
I liked watching her fight it off with Envy, because that was her first serious sign that she really likes Scott.
The crazy oddities of juvenile pop-rock-gaming saga of Scott Pilgrim continues!
The book's flashback scenes are inserted here and there like crazy.
Most of the time they are appropriate, but there are times when these flashbacks confused me or killed the intensity of the present scenes.
Also, I wonder if these one-panel fourth wall breaks will persist through the last three volumes.
The fourth wall breaks are not annoying though, just a bit off, even considering the crazy stuff happening there.Halfway through, and there are still four (or five, maybe three?) evil ex-boyfriends left.
Oh yeah Scott Pilgrim, I'm in.
After first volume I wasn't sure do I like movie or comic better.
After volume 2 I was convinced that comic was better.After volume 3 I am back to "not really sure ".
Like in all book to movie and comic to movie adaptations stuff had to be cut out and sometimes that isn't a bad thing.In volume 2 I loved stuff that weren't in the movie but in volume 3 I found them a bit boring.Stuff that happen in present where good, filled with same meta humor, but whole story about how Scott and Natalie (Envy) met and dated in collage was mostly uninteresting.
Join Scott in his attempt to beat Ramona’s 3rd evil ex-boyfriend Todd. Todd is vegan and being a vegan apparently gives him superpowers!! ( So eat your vegetables kids ) Todd is also a jerk, not because he’s a vegan that comes naturally. Envy is Scott's ex and Ramona is Todd's ex, now Envy is with Todd and Ramona is with Scott...aahhh things are messed upIt's another great volume with humor,romance and action... and Scott finally gets a haircut
Two words; Vegan powers.
My reread of Scott Pilgrim reaches to volume three which is in my opinion a high mark in the series.Bryan Lee O'Malley flexed a lot of different muscles in creating this volume.
It has at least two main arcs but I'm highlighting two: the first one was Scott Pilgrim's current battle with evil ex number three Todd Ingram; and the second story was a series of flashback that shows Scott and Envy Adams' love story and breakup that lead to the eponymous Infinite Sadness.
That and he it wraps with an adventure story as well.My memory is pretty hazy but I think O'Malley would again approach this high mark of quality again in the series.
I read this really quickly while trying to decide what to read next. I really liked the story in this one. There were new characters and the backstories were really effortlessly worked into the main story. It all flowed really well. I love the art style, I think Bryan Lee O'Malley is super super clever and I'll read the rest of this series soon :)
I have to admit that I am losing interest in this comic and the situations seem a bit repetitive. Perhaps it is betraying my age or the mores of my generation, but I found myself skimming the text and just enjoying the artwork.
I think I found this volume the most awkward of the series.
Suddenly we are introduced to the character of Envy, an ex girlfriend of Scott's who has since made it semi-big in some kind of music scene.
And on every page it gets pointed out that she is a total bitch.
Just in case we forgot from the last page.Oh and conveniently Envy is connected to one of Ramona's ex boyfriends.
Small world.Scott get's a haircut.So yeah.
No change in my opinion of this series at all.
This is the volume I enjoyed the least.By the way everyone, I am borrowing these books so that is why I kept reading them.
More kick-ass shenanigans from Scott Pilgrim & co.Review to come
pretty tame.- A Review from a person who is anti-thick Glasses -Have you noticed the new trend in the world?
And it appears that the author and I are of the same opinion when it comes to vegans (so that means he probably shares the same belief as me with my anti-thick glasses campaign).In the book, Todd - the evil ex-boyfriend, thinks that he is better than everyone, has magical powers, has floofy sexy hair, thinks that he is a rock star, and believes he is better than anyone out there because he is a hardcore vegan.
Ever feel like a book is a little too specific to your interests?
Scott Pilgrim's life is all music and old-school video games.
I get the references consistently, and they're references I'm not used to seeing in stories.O'Malley's storytelling style is perplexing in many regards.
Scott Pilgrim is a skeezy loser who shares a bed with a gay guy in a one room apartment, treats the girls in his life like crap, and can't hold down a job.
Another one bites the dustYou can't date Ramona unless you agree to take on every ex-boyfriend she has ever had.
Would Ramona fight for him as well?Although, I don't agree with the whole love fights -- the Scott Pilgrim series is written as a video game.
The books are humorous, and filled with music bands subplots, giving them an extra touch of creativity.
It was entertaining to see Natalie (a.k.a Envy) appear in this book and try to break Scott's heart all over again.
But of course, the introduction of new characters, placed the band in the background.
And frankly, the subplots lacked a bit more attention.

Oh Scott. You can just not get over Envy.
This series continues to deliver full marks; so from the first volume to this one, that's three straight five stars.Envy is the main villain, though Ramona's third evil ex, Todd Ingram has super Vegan powers, he has not choice but to stand aside for the real star of this story.
This is the third stage of a re-read, so I know she made it to the last volume, but only because her character underwent a change from despised to tragic.Envy started the volume as the one character universally despised by Scott's friends.
There was nary a moment where nice Nat could still exist under the Envy facade.
To recap: unlikeble characters doing jerk-like things, but it doesn’t matter, because the story is crazy and the humour is VEGAN AWESOME!
And Ramona has also proven that she does truly want to be with Scott, that she's not just having fun with him.Bryan Lee O'Malley writes really believable, likable characters, even in this weird pseudo-fantasy world of his.The ending doesn't quite live up to the Big Bad climax of Scott Pilgrim, Volume 1: Scott Pilgrim's Precious Little Life, but it was still hilariously heroic.
In this volume, Scott encounters his old girlfriend Envy whom he is still obsessing over a year and a half after their epic break-up that may or may not have involved his getting a bad haircut.
I am on the record as loving this series.
It still has some great lines and visual jokes (when Kim tells Ramona she spent the evening in her room scrap-booking, "<--Cry for help" appears in text below her.) But the story is kind of hard to follow in places.
Most of the problems were in the flashback sequences that start and end abruptly without explanation.
Oh and he battles Evil Ex-Boyfriend #3 who has psychic Vegan powers, his current girlfriend Ramona battles his ex, Envy, lead singer of a popular rock band, and Scott starts speaking like a real person (but only for a few scenes).
The stuff about how veganism gives you super powers was really funny and Bryan Lee O’Malley reaches new levels of fantasy by drawing a scene mentioned in “It’s a Wonderful Life!” as if a character were really doing it.
The book is mostly stuff that didn’t make it into the movie which is probably why I liked it the best of the three so far because most it felt new.
While I got completely lost about who had dated whom by the end, the very last page of the book is a relational diagram of the characters.
Very awesome, though it should be on the first page, not the last.This one jumps right back into what I loved about Scott Pilgrim in the first place, with a heavy dose of my favorite character so far: Envy Adams.
From the last page of book 2, to the end of this book, I was in love with Envy.
Plus, Todd (who is not only Ramona's ex, but Envy's as well) is fucking awesome--except/because he's vegan.
AMAZING!!!. This was such a great graphic novel. I loved it even more then the second volume. The reason why I gave this a 4 star and was close to a 5 star is because it was kind of confusing seeing who dated which and what happened in the past. But overall this was such an AWESOME and KICKASS Graphic novel.
Με κούρασε λίγο σε σύγκριση με τα προηγούμενα,αλλά και πάλι το διασκέδασα!
THE STARK EXISTENTIAL HORROR OF HONEST ED'S!!! I stan.
This series is one of the best out there, carefully constructed and each panel is here for a reason.
What was originally a fun and out there story has grown into something much more, each of the characters have been developed carefully, something the movie couldn't handle it the one film.
O'Malley is one of the best movies of the medium and I can only hope the remaining volumes can hold the same level of consistency that I'm growing accustomed to.
The depth is the key, not one character is simplistic and this is why the medium has grown into something bigger than superheroes.
The vegan police😂😂 they killed me i loved them!
