https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122771.The_Silver_Chalice
The back said something about it being a classic, and that immediately caught my attention.The entire book reminded me of Ben-Hur, just at a later time period.
He, just like Ben-Hur, is sold as a slave and looses his house, lands, and properties.
One thing that Basil does have is an amazing talent to sculpt with his hands.
This talent is what gets Basil to the places he goes.
Notable characters include, Nero, many of the Lord's apostles, and Joseph of Arimathia.This was a very good book, and I would recommend it to anyone who loved Ben-Hur.
In order to tell a more authentic story, Costain uses real characters such as Joseph of Arimithea, Luke, Peter and other Apostles as well as Nero.Basil, the main character, is legally adopted into a wealthy family but when the father dies, his position is usurped by his uncle and he is sold into slavery.
Luke had been searchig on behalf of Joseph of Arimithea who old and feeble as he is, is intent on securing the best and most talented artisan to design a chalice which will be made to fit the cup used by Jesus at The Last Supper".
Basil, the son of a poor seller of pens and ink is adopted by a rich merchant in Antioch.
Basil travels from Antioch to Ephesus then Rome to sculpt the faces of the apostles, which, in silver, will adorn the chalice.
Basil also tries to regain his inheritance and his citizenship.A classic, still a good story and worthwhile reading, the novel is written in an old-fashioned manner and the passing of years have not been kind to it.
I read it years ago in high school when it came out, and loved it then.
Glad I had a couple of snowy days to push hard through this book.
The idea is to see what the world was like that you were born into.The Silver Chalice is historical fiction about a gifted slave who was tapped to create a chalice for the cup that Christ had used at the Last Supper.
That movies and books were longer--our attention spans were longer back then.That a book about the early days of Christianity was popular.
That themes are universal.I recommend this book if you love historical fiction and have an interest in the time period or early Christianity.
Despite a long and valiant battle to at least reach the middle, I've decided it is no longer worth my time to bother with this book. I don't care about any of the characters. I don't care what's going on. I just don't care. It's time to move on and tackle a more entertaining story.
This is my favorite of Thomas Costain's novels. If you like both historical fiction and Christian fiction, you will find this story about the cup used at the Last Supper to be a gem. There's lots of excitement, romance, religion, and of course, history.
He has in his possession the Holy Cup of the last supper, it is a very plain and even slightly dented cup, and he wants it to be contained in a beautiful silver mount with the images of the most important Apostles and Disciples depicted around it.
Basil is chosen for the honour of creating this beautiful object and he has a limited time to make likenesses of the surviving few, Peter now old and living under a different name until such time as he was needed to resume his great work, Luke who was so kind to Basil, Paul still the fiery preacher unafraid for his own safety, and of course Joseph of Arimathea but the hardest of all was going to be Jesus.
Came across this book in a family library, and what a delightful and timely-read!
I really enjoyed reading about the Apostles of Christ, especially how Luke was depicted, and the way the time-period was so brought to life.
Makes it so much easier to understand, visualize and remember.Especially, I was struck by how Christian philosophies differed from those around them, as we get to read of Basil's conversion.
But it was thought-provoking and well-written, and I think would make a fun read-aloud for a family before Christmastime (though you may née to start well in advance and edit details out).

This was a great book I read from my Grandmother's library as a kid.
The book is about life in the times contemporaneous with the life of Jesus Christ, from the point of view of those around him, particularly Joseph of Arimathea, a rich elder of the era, who donated his own stone hewn tomb for Jesus' burial after crucified execution, that death from which Jesus arose three days hence.
I enjoyed this book tremendously, and recommend it highly.
I am not certain, but I think the Hollywood movie, "The Robe" starring Victor Mature was based on this book.
This is a wonderful book, which I freely recommend to friends and family. It is interesting in its fictionalization of the post-Resurrection depiction of Christ's apostles and followers. Of course, we may all use our imaginations to flesh out these men (and women) from scriptural reading, but it is fun to read Costain's take on these people. The plot is shifty enough to keep us caring about the main characters and their strivings to better both their temporal and spiritual selves. If you like The Robe and Quo Vadis, give this one a try!
This was a great book that taught me about everyday life during the time of the apostles. Even though it was largely through fiction, I learned about the difficulties of transitioning from pre-Christ followers-Jews-to the "new law" of Christianity. It also brought a desire in me to be artistically creative, even though my fruits were poor, the spirit of it was great! The love story was good as well!
This was a wonderful book! It was written 50 years before the DaVinci Code and was also about the beginnings of Christianity. Also like the DaVinci Code it was on the best seller list for multiple years. I read both books in the same summer and it is interesting to see the changing standards of popularity in the world. I really loved this book and would recommend it to anyone.
I've read this book over and over again and just recently found it in a still unpacked pile of books and read it immediately. I love historical fiction and fiction about the early Church is pretty cool.
Wow! Reading this book was a great experience. Its story line, the characters, everything makes you so indulged in them that you forget about your outside world. The narration is quite excellent. A must Read One!
Me and my sweetie stumbled across this author while exploring a used book sale. His stuff is out of print now but what yummy reading! I love this kind of literature. You get lost in the richness of the words, descriptions, etc.
Read this when I was 13. Re-read it out of curiosity, didn"t remember any of it.
Read this as a teen. I loved it then!
His vernacular makes the whole story a Christian "good for you" book - Costain is someone who often forgets telling a good story in order to preach.Basil is a poor, young, but talented sculptor who is adopted by a rich man.
On the way, he meets rich and forgiving Christians and one particularly pure and beautiful "Go Jesus" waif.
It's been hidden for years, and now it's time to take the simple, beautiful faith-inspiring thing and gaudy it up....much like this book does throughout.
This was a fascinating story with well-drawn out characters and an exciting plot.
I found that the pervasive spirit of the chalice (the Holy Grail) gave the story a mystical quality that, although it was Christian, felt as though it was more than just the religion and touching to a truth beyond the trappings of customs.
I also learned a lot about Ancient Jerusalem and Rome and found that Basil's time at the court of Nero fascinating.So I would highly recommend this story to all lovers of historical novels or historical fantasy!
I love historical novels and this one takes place during the reign of Nero when Rome ruled much of the civilized world.
It begins in Antioch, moves to Jerusalem, then to Rome and back to Antioch.
Several of the apostles are still alive and preaching and it was very dangerous to be a Christian.
The story centers around the cup that Jesus drank from during the last supper and the boy who grows up to make the chalice that surrounds it.
While no one knows where the chalice is or what happened to it, this story presents one possible story of its journey.
I want to rate this book higher because it is so well researched, and brings part of the new testament to life. But I had an immensely hard time getting through it. It's not a tough read at all (although standing at 840 pages), the writing is simple and the story straight forward enough. But the way the writing is done (very descriptive) leaves no room for imagination and interpretation and I was, frankly, bored. If I weren't compulsive about finishing books I start I would have dropped it half way through.
An historical novel set in the early years of Christianity in the Apostolic era, this is the story of Basil of Antioch, an artisan bought out of slavery to fashion a chalice which incorporates the cup Jesus used at the Last Supper, which Joseph of Arimathea had preserved. Read this back in my Junior High/High School years and don't remember much of the plot, but do remember really liking it at the time.
A fictional story of the making of silver chalice to hold the cup (Holy Grail) that was used by Jesus at the Last Supper. The book provides an interesting view of the times, including slavery, the belief in magic, and prosecution of the Christians.
Everyone who knows religion is curious about the Holy Grail. This story uses Biblical ideas along with fiction to examine the making of a silver chalice. I found the story interesting and thought provoking.
Great book!
Had high hopes for this book after it was recommended by a friend, but just couldn't get into it. The plot somehow felt wooden.
A well written historical fiction account of the silver chalice that Jesus drank from. Recommended highly
Read back in 1970 while living in Hawaii
While the love story (and usually I'm a big fan) was a bit trite, the overall history and story of the early Christians - as the original apostles are aging and Nero is beginning his persecutions - was well done and enjoyable.
