https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49253.Crazy_Horse_and_Custer
And the chapters about politics (e.g., the broken treaty in the Black Hills) and about the people (e.g., Crazy Horse resisting confinement) – these were really good stuff.Custer made several mistakes in the Battle of the Little Bighorn.
Ambrose understood how profoundly sad was Crazy Horse’s ultimate capitulation.It turns out that my knowledge of the Indian politics of the mid- and late-19th centuries was woefully thin, and I learned a lot from “Crazy Horse and Custer.”Here are three of the concepts Ambrose taught me more firmly:•	The Sioux could not simultaneously be free and be effective soldiers.
Northerners, and loyal Unionists when the time for fighting came, though untroubled by slavery while it existed, and absolutely opposed to black suffrage after it was abolished; white supremacists, back when the sentiment was taken for granted and uncontroversially expressed; “Christian soldiers” (as Papa Custer called George and his younger brother Lt. Thomas Custer, who once charged ahead of his men, leapt into the midst of Confederate troops, and didn’t let being shot in the face by the rebel regiment’s color bearer daunt him from quickly dispatching that adversary and wresting away the stars-and-bars; during the Civil War Tom won the Congressional Medal of Honor twice) who had been indoctrinated to believe that the United States of America “was uniquely blessed, had the finest government ever conceived by man, was the freest the world had ever known, and had a Manifest Destiny to overspread the continent.” Ambrose has a deep sense of nineteenth century political affiliations, and of the particular career ramifications of Custer’s chosen affiliations.
Wow. History has gotten so much better since I was in Junior High...Immensely readable, Ambrose has written a wonderful depiction of the times based on the conflict between two immense, American heroes. He paints a vivid picture of their up-bringing, formative years and early careers that eventually and inevitably led to their day at the Little Bighorn. This history is fair to both: elegant and moving. We come to know and perhaps love both protagonists, and the tragedy of Crazy Horse's death is laid out in full.Custer - got what he deserved.Highly recommended.
Stephen Ambrose is one of the most readable historians I've ever come across, and Crazy Horse and Custer is a prime example of why.
Ambrose does an excellent job of illustrating how so many factors lead Custer to make the decisions he did.Stephen is also very thorough in his illustration of the life of Crazy Horse and goes to great lengths in describing the basis for the Sioux warrior mentality.
I've read many of Stephen Ambrose's books, this is the one that made me a fan.
I found this book to be excellent. Ambrose goes into good detail on how the Sioux Indians lived their organizational structure and their customs. I highly recommend this book if you have any interest in the American Indian. Other reviewers thought Ambrose was biased towards the U.S. Army I really didn't feel that way. The book does discuss the treatment of the Sioux by the Indian Agents and the Army. It seemed each had a different idea of what was the correct approach controlling Indian population.
Too much politics in first half of book.
He is only humanAfter reading the story of red cloud, this story shows that Crazy Horse is the real hero. Selfless sacrifice and holding to tradition shows that Crazy himself revieled the true chief that Crazy Horse was. Lead by example and for the tribe, not for yourself.The more I read about Custer, the more similarities I saw with Donald Trump -a person only living for himself, and self promotion. Sacrifice all who follow, as long as more self promotion is seen. History repeats itself.
So dry. So wordy. So soporific. (Don't forget, I was a history major. I've read A LOT of history.) As soon as I got to 51% I called myself finished. (It has been a couple of years since I invoked my personal 51%-and-I-can-call-it-read rule. )
While these two men came from very different backgrounds, there was much in common between them, and this book highlights these similarities by alternating between accounts of their experiences during their childhood and youth, their rise to prominence among their respective peoples, their falls from grace and their restoration, and finally, the Indian war that brought them together on the field of battle.Custer, born to a family of modest means, grew up in Ohio and Michigan before getting before getting an appointment to West Point, his only real shot at higher education and social advancement on account of his economic status.
For example, the Plains Indians led a hunter-gatherer lifestyle, and demands that they move to reservations where their ability to hunt was sharply curtailed placed a high burden on them for the benefit of westward settlement.
Ambrose masterfully parallels the lives of these two men and the worlds they both fought for until that day they both collided on the Little Big Horn. You will gain insight into not only these two fascinating warriors but better understand the two cultures that collided on the plains of the 19th Century America. This was a very enjoyable read.
This writer/researcher is an American treasure.......Recommend.
As usual, Ambrose does a good job in trying to be objective--especially in dealing with polarizing individuals and topics like US/Native American relations and the myths and reputation surrounding Custer & Crazy Horse.
Robert Utley and Allan Eckert are two other historians which to my mind give good and accurate historical descriptions of subject matter which has become highly PC.Interesting to consider that had the battle of little Bighorn gone the other way, Custer might well have ended up in the White House.
After a slow start (read a bit like a PhD dissertation but I wouldn't want anyone comparing mine) this was really fun.
Some random things that struck a chord with me 1] "The American is a new man who acts on new principles." Individual expectations of betterment makes Americans into the hardest working people in the world.
Have we learned nothing, the same thing is going on today around the world.
Custer personally received the white flag of surrender from Lee. 4] I thought it before Ambrose said it but Custer and Patton were remarkably similar.
Because my great-grand mother was half Cherokee, I proudly bragged to friends about the legends that accompanied her memory while arguing fiercely for my right to be one of the cowboys instead of a “dastardly Indian”.Stephen Ambrose illustrates this dichotomy of my American heritage flawlessly in his parallel biographies of Crazy Horse and Custer.
While others, far from the reality of battle, see the enemy as less than human, true warriors like these two men often have a grudging respect for each other.If for no other reason, the author has done me a favor by reminding me that these were real people rather than characters on a silver screen.
Crazy Horse and Custer reminds us that neither was angel nor demon.
Crazy Horse was the better general, in that he studied his enemy carefully and knew what to expect, while Custer made the false assumption that the far-better-armed cavalry could wipe out any force of Indians: only one of 4 or 5 Indians had a rifle, and those arms were older, less efficient models than the US Army carried.
Both men died in their middle thirties, Custer of course at Little Big Horn, Crazy Horse the following year, shot in the back for being intransigent when the whites reneged on their treaties.
Ambrose looks at the European American culture of the time with the same anthropological eye that he does Oglala (sioux) and other Indian culture of the time, with lots of commentary, but no judgment, on either.
He reserves his judgment for the military and political decisions by the men he profiles in the book (not just Crazy Horse and Custer) and he can be downright brutal (and right on!) in such.
My understand and respect for Crazy Horse is now vast.
The scary thing is that American foreign policy now seems to be a lot like the Indian policy of the late 1800s...
While an interesting perspective of the two biographies being joined and very readable, I find Ambrose a bit off putting.
One example, Ambrose cites SLA Marshall's finding that in WWII no matter what the circumstances of battle on average only 15% of US troops engage the enemy, and Ambrose proceeds to suggest the same number is probably about right for all US wars.
Putting aside the fact that the findings of Marshall are highly contested and most probably fraudulent, to compare the behavior of the infantry in all wars, under all circumstances and enemies is beyond silly.
As a result, by the late 19th century, the American Bison numbered fewer than 400.All that and much more ultimately lead to the showdown between Crazy Horse and Custer at the Battle of Little Bighorn.
For somebody whose known about Custer’s Last Stand since an adolescent, the final moments after Crazy Horse reached the high ground ahead of Custer and before he delivered his decisive blow are written with magnificent prose:“When a group of men on horseback reach the top of a hill after a hard gallop, there is a natural pause; the men want to look around, and they pull up, which suits the horses just fine, because they too want to see what’s ahead before plunging on.
I low-rated this book for its careless use of such highly charged words as "savages" and "civilized" and such statements as this: "The United States did not follow a policy of genocide; it did try to find a just solution to the Indian problem."Whether from policy or from the unanticipated sum of myriad government-aided and -abetted acts of soldiers and settlers, the result was genocide. Nor was "a just solution to the Indian problem" ever a major concern of U.S. Indian policy. After all, the "Indian problem" was settler usurpation.
Another excellent work by Stephen Ambrose, comparing the lives of two of the most iconic figures in the 18th century conflict between the advancing white settlers, the army, and the Indians who lived on the Great Plains.
After having traveled across South Dakota and visited Deadwood and the Black Hills in September, I'm obsessed with the West.
Stephen Ambrose demonstrates how Custer and Crazy Horse’s strong similarities as well as strong differences would ultimately propel them toward the infamous battle at the Little Bighorn.One strong impression from this book is that Custer and Crazy Horse were both creatures of two very sophisticated cultures that were imbued with a sense of order, peace, and unity.
But like many other officers of that prestigious military academy, Custer forged strong friendships that continued even after his friends joined either side of the Civil War. This book not only tells the story of these two men and their differences but also of their uncanny similarities that ultimately led them to the Little Bighorn battlefield in 1876.
This book is no different, it tells the story of Crazy Horse and Custer in a manner which is entertaining and engaging.On a side note, I listened to this as an audio book.
Sheridan was also known for his famous line, "The only good Indian is a dead Indian."General Custer was very successful in the Civil War and garnered a lot of acclaim.
The son of one of the best known Sioux ever, Sitting Bull, Crazy Horse gathered fame and acclaim prior to their famous confrontation.
The book does a great job at introducing Sioux culture and how Sitting Bull and Crazy Horse came about their fame and reputations.
This is a dual biography of two fascinating men who were representative leaders in the conflict of American and Indian cultures in the Nineteenth Century Great Plains.
Both men are admirable for their personal courage and commitment to their way of life, and both died tragically as a direct result of that commitment.This is not a "white man evil, Indian good" treatment.
What is not justified is the prevailing lack of concern for the Indians and the self-serving violation of basic human rights and breaking of promises.Crazy Horse is to be admired not only for his courage, but also his undying commitment to his people and their way of life.
This book was a clever idea.
A clever idea.
And done well.You should be able to find other books that provide a much more complete history of Custer’s life because he was apparently a prolific writer.
And any history of Crazy Horse’s life clearly has to be somewhat speculative.
That balance was key to making this book work for me.You not only learn about the men, you also learn about the times they lived in.
Thus pending starvation forced the Indians to move onto reservations - where the whites then provided for them (in a substandard way).Interesting history, cleverly packaged.
I absolutely loved this book: the premise, the research, the writing, the tone, the opinions ...
I loved it all, every little bit of it.
Ambrose and I'm certainly going to be reading more of him.
And I must admit to feeling a mite bit kinder towards Custer than I did before I read it.
Now I'm not saying that I liked him any more only that Ambrose help me understand his situation better than of the other books I've read on the subject.
My only wish is that he published a book on the writing of this one.
He shows us that while Crazy Horse was a highly respected warrior, he was an “outlier” of sorts.
Crazy Horse made a hard choice in his personal life regarding the woman that he loved, but he was made to pay the price.Custer is neither demonized or glorified in this account.
I felt that the author clearly displayed the flaws of this man, flaws that his military superiors saw and that held him back and eventually lead to his premature death along with many of those under his command.This book is certainly worth your time.
I bought this book for 20p at my local village fete this summer, I had been enjoying rewatching Band Of Brothers with my 15 year old son, and thought this looked intriguing, I’d visited Custer and North and South Dakota and the Crazy Horse monument 19 years ago and reading this book took me straight back there.
Yes, it’s a bit dense at times and reading it at bedtime certainly didn’t do the reading experience any good, but when I gave it the attention it deserved, this book really delivered emotional punch.
I had read Barkskins by Annie Proulx earlier this year and found Crazy Horse and Custer a great companion book.
Arrogant and invincible, but gifted with unearthly stamina, a fierce love of his wife, and an almost juvenile sense of wonder, Custer is revealed as far more three dimensional than I’ve read before.Crazy Horse, monastic, concerned only with narrow personal glory, bearer of decades of unrequited love, is another example of the tragedy that resulted in the clash of America and the Sioux et al.Ambrose does an excellent job of portraying the irreconcilable cultural and spiritual gulf between two peoples.
It was the railroads and the buffalo hunters they brought with them.
The press of tens of thousands of settlers and the extermination of the Buffalo was enough.
History at it's BestStephen appears to have done his research.
Everything I have read about Custer points to an egotist, bent on fame and glory regardless the price, including the lives of his men.
In contrast Crazy Horse did not seek fame or glory but merely wanted to live as the Native Americans had always lived.
This true history needs to be finally taught in our schools just as slavery has been taught.
The history I was taught painted the Indians as "brutal savages" while the brutality and savagery of our Army was white washed.
