https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351723.Contemplative_Prayer
Every time I read this book I glean new information from it and am less intimidated by it.
<><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><><>I am so glad that I just read Pope Benedict's book, The Fathers.
It is giving confidence and a general familiarity with these great men and their writings as Thomas Merton hurries through centuries of monastic contemplative life.
It's easy to see how some would find this book difficult, foreign or of absolutely no use.
Merton assumes a high level of expertise in his reader.
How much better I might appreciate his meaning and benefit from this book...
If you want to know about HIM, his life choices, and general philosophy, Seven Story Mountain might be a better choice.But I read this book specifically to learn about his views on Christian mystical meditation and I loved it.
He synthesizes sources from the most renowned Catholic mystic thinkers and does so brilliantly.A word---I read almost everything Merton says when it comes to Christ metaphorically.
So I think it's important to say that this book isn't only for Christian seekers.
As a Jew, a secularist, and an naturalist, I found Merton's discussion of meditation inspiring and brilliant.
Can't go wrong with Merton. The foreword by Thich Nhat Hahn just adds to the spiritual sweetness.
This book was written for an audience that does not include me, so the fact that it did not speak to me is not surprising.
The last few chapters of the book discuss the pitfalls of assuming certain superficial adjustments to beliefs and lifestyles constitutes entering the contemplative or religious life, when in fact what is entered is a life of emptiness built on ego or self-definition.
Here Merton is able to describe much better than I ever have some of the problems I have had with the religious life encouraged upon me by well meaning people, and I am grateful to now have the wording to think about some of the sources of my resistance.
Meditations by a now-deceased monk, explaining the merits of silent, contemplative prayer.
Often one neglects prayer as they feel they just recite a learned string of words without attaching any thoughtful meaning.
That's not to say recited prayer is a bad thing.
The Lord's Prayer and Hail Mary and even the Apostle's Creed are always good to focus on.
But certainly, contemplative prayer should not be ruled out as a lazy, effortless replacement for new age weirdos who can't afford the time for God. It is just another, subjectively less riddled way of surrendering one's self to the universal glory Our Lord.
“Contemplative Prayer” is Thomas Merton’s guide to its subject.
Although clearly written for monks, it is of benefit to the laity and others outside the monatery.I listened to the audio CD version.
I think that this work requires reflection and the ability to review what has been read to really appreciate its meaning.
I feel that I have a better appreciation of the Dark Night of the Soul than I had before listening to this, but I recommend a written version and time for anyone desiring to derive the maximum benefit from this book.
Just awesome. One of the best books about prayer I have ever read.
Reading Merton is good for the soul.
In my circles, where theology and life with God is much more cognitive than affective, "meditation" is an experience similar to tracing through cross references, learning more and more, "chewing on" a question the texts brings up.
Merton, then, frees these concepts (meditation and contemplation) from being only about an academic-theological pursuit and lets them return to lived-theological experience, where the goal is not to master the text but to be mastered, to become present to God, the One who is waiting for your attention.
Merton needs to lead us first along that path that goes inward, to our inner being as spiritual creatures derived from God. And in our day and time, that simply takes some doing.
All of this takes leading and guidance and Merton's book is written to help those who would seek the Kingdom of God and His Righteousness.
Without contemplation, she will be reduced to being the servant of cynical and worldly powers, no matter how hard her faithful may protest that they are fighting for the Kingdom of God." Best to put aside our notions of what "contemplative" and "interior" prayer means and let Merton fill us in.

One of the most profoundly insightful books I've had the good fortune of reading in a long time. Highly recommended if your prayer life is in a slump, or if you're interested in learning more about the little mind games we play with ourselves in our attempts to lead a devout Christian life.
This is the last of Merton's books and one which focuses on the monastic practice of contemplative prayer.
Merton carefully examines prayer, especially in the monastery, and gives a sensitive and learned commentary on it.
And I don't necessarily love a lot of books on prayer.
That has a lot to do with the kind of writer Merton was, mind you.
Merton's analysis, synthesis, and developmental ideas set out in this little volume of a book is unbelievably thoughtful, scholarly, and experiential.
To be fair, I have meant to read Merton for the past ten years and never got around to it before this treat of a book.
How often we forget to silence and reverent the Creator, The Divine, Yahweh, Our Parent...
we must let God's presence...
Merton has helped me tremendously in my loudmouth journey, he reminds me to shut up...
to let go of myself and to sit for the Creator's sake ...
From the introduction, Merton states that the intended audience are those who have made lifestyle/vocational decisions towards a more "extreme" spirituality.
He also states that there are lessons to be learned within these pages for even the the religious layman (a position I identify with & appreciate)."Prayer of the heart" is the topic of a large majority of this book.
Merton guides the reader through the process of entering into this state of being.
The book closes with a particularly poignant admonition around religion for religion's sake.Although the reading is heady - not crafted for quick, easy consumption - I found the volume a perfect length for conceptual understanding.
Merton writes primarily to monks and monastic scholars. For some this book may seem unaccessible, certain chapters are hard to get into. Much of the book is like a broken record stuttering, "dark night of the soul." I got some good stuff out of this book, from what I've heard about Merton, that is just about always going to happen. Don't look to this book if you are expecting a "here's how to pray" book. You'll be deeply frustrated. If you find church history and the monastic lifestyle interesting, you'll get something from this book.
Started off slow but then there were a few chapters near the end of the book which I found really good. Sadly no practical advise offered as to how one practices contemplative prayer. Just a lot of theology and theory.
Best book on Contemplation I have read. And yet, it is still difficult to understand. If you are interested in contemplative prayer, this is the book I would recommend starting with, since it filters a lot of original sources and makes them more comprehensible.
“When this surrender has truly been made, there is no longer any place for fear and dread. There can no longer be any doubt or hesitation in the mind of one who is completely and finally resolved to seek nothing and do nothing but what is willed for him by God’s love.”
A wonderful encouragement in prayer.I found this a helpful text in my own struggles with prayer, dread and the difficulties of spiritual life. Merton speaks from a place personal struggle. This is a text I imagine I will return to more than once.
Classic MertonThis is harder work than many of his more popular works, perhaps because it’s aimed at the monastic rather than lay community. For the same reason, it is also a clearer and more phenomenological tract. As the stars indicate, I loved it.
A wonderful book on prayer.
Very complex topic, however, as a lay person, you can definitely get something out of this book.
Dense at times in his language but illuminating, including a few methods/approaches and much analysis of being a contemplative.
I was expecting something different than what this book provided. It has good points and great insight. It's small but an intense read. It's requires time, thought, and reflection.
One of the most profound spiritual books I have read.
Thomas Merton describes spirituality in a non-intrusive way, combining the best of multiple worlds.
I love the simplicity and profoundness at the same time.
I love the way how Merton teaches us about religion and spirituality without holding on to Christian dogmas imposed on us by the church for centuries.
His wisdom of Buddhism, Sufism and other spiritual languages makes his writing objective and spot on.
Some background and spiritual experience will definitely help understanding parts of the book, though definitely not a prerequisite to "be enlightened"
rossi said, "he gets it." loved his concept of dread around our encounter with God- "dread divests us of the sense of possession, of "having" our being and our power to love, in order that we may simply be in perfect openness (turned inside out), a defenselessness that is utter simplicity and total gift." "in a word, God is invisibly present to the ground of our being: our belief and love attain to him, but he remains hidden from the arrogant gaze of our investigating mind which seeks to capture him and secure permanent possession of him in an act of knowledge that gives power over him.
Merton writes, “If it [The Dark Night of the Soul] empties the mind and heart of the connatural satisfactions of knowledge and love on a simply human plane, it does so in order to fill them with a higher and purer light which is ‘darkness’ to sense and reason.
Direct light to supernal light darkens the mind and heart, and it is precisely in this way that, being led into the ‘dark night of faith,‘ one passes from meditation, in the sense of active ‘mental prayer,‘ to contemplation, or deeper and simpler intuitive form of receptivity, in which, if one be said to ‘meditate‘ at all, one does so only by receiving the with with passive and loving attention.
As such he was also an advocate of the non-rational meditation of contemplative prayer, which he saw as a direct confrontation of finite and irrational man with his ground of being.An important feature is what he evidences in this book of how the peace obtained through meditation should not be sought in order to evade our problems of contemporary life, on the contrary, he thinks we can instead be directed back out into the world to affect it in a positive change.
Contemplative Prayer is one of the most well-known works of spirituality of the last one hundred years, and it is a must-read for all seeking to live a life of purpose in today's world.
This is my opinion of his work, of course.Near the end of this book Merton writes, "...the full maturity of the spiritual life cannot br reached unless we first pass through the dread, anguish, trouble and fear that necessarily accompany the inner crisis of 'spiritual death' in which we finally abandon our attachment to our exterior self and surrender completely to Christ." For Merton, this crisis of spiritual death rarely, if ever, occurs apart from meditation is solitude.
Such a view seems to run counter to Paul's writings to the Colossians - that faith in Christ leads to the fullness of spiritual maturity rather than some "higher" spiritual experience which only a few attain.So, for what it is, this is a good book.
