https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124923.The_Moneychangers
For those reading it beware it a book released before internet hit our world and talks about the possibility of core banking being installed and suggests automated teller machines not as a stand alone but connected to a grid of tellers sitting at a computer some where far away.
There is a right mix of jargon and the introduces the lay reader to many processes that are in the banking framework.It is indeed a joy to read as one see's Arthur Hailey deft weave not only the growth of the character but the very greed of man to touch the vice that will pull him down.
Артър Хейли и светът на големите пари: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/b...Дори не знам колко пъти съм препрочитал “Банкери” някога, едва ли ще са по-малко от пет-шест.
Зачетох се с лекота и сякаш се върнах назад във времето – банката пак се люшкаше покрай смъртта на своя президент, двамата кандидати за поста му се вкопчват в люта битка за поста му, макар от самото начало да е ясно кой е “добрият” и кой – “лошият”, започват се проблемите с паричните наличности и любимата ми сцена, в която двама възрастни, дошли да спасят спестяванията си, решават все пак да се доверят – и задвижват вълната на спасението.
Успехът и провалът са винаги само на една крачка разстояние.
Крачка, която е важно в коя посока правиш.Издателска къща БАРДhttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/b...
This was my 6th book by Hailey and thankfully this was one of the better ones along with Airport.
Hailey is so repetitive and formulaic.
I think he used "Find and Replace" option to write all his novels after the first one.
Replace character names, replace technical terms of industry, replace setting of events - and you have a new Hailey novel in a different setting.
Or maybe there is an X factor too - Hailey magic, that makes us return every now and then to pick up another novel.
Afterall, the pacing is even and he never gets boring even at his worst.
My second-favourite Hailey. Someone like me, who finds business- , finance- , stock market-related subjects boring, couldn't put it down. Simply brilliant!
I am somewhat irritated that the villain is an uptightEpiscopalian, but at least Hailey does make him strugglewith his conscience.The book did give interesting insights into the moralissues of American banking about 25 years ago. I was originally led to read it by the opening pageswhich set up an interesting quasi-locked-room back theft, but it was solved early on and became peripheral to the main plot.
Well Researched. Crisp story. Interesting tid-bits. The characters have a pre 1990 feel with clearly defined heroes and villains.. Technology seems like an afterthought(which itself is amazing since it was written in 1975).. Crimes seem less sophisticated.. Memorable characters.. Very futuristic on Corporate Governance and Insider trading.. Gold Standard explained.. This is a fun way to know an industry.. Read Hailey!
After Airport,Hotel and Wheels,this Hailey bestseller is the story of a bank.Currency and credit card fraud,embezzlement,the mafia and the jockeying for power in the boardroom are elements which are skilfully combined to create a suspenseful story.This is a novel about greed, corruption and the consequences that follow.
Whenever I read a novel by  Arthur Hailey, I’m amazed at the amount of research that has gone into writing it.
An insider robbery also makes side-plot in the novel and is written rather well.The functioning of the bank branches is described very well by Arthur Hailey.
Arthur Hailey managed to predict such a major change in banking.
This is the depth of detail to which he went in his novels!I believe that a book review should be detailed enough to engage and intrigue a reader but crisp enough to not reveal any major plot-lines.
The story has all the drama and feel of a thriller but at the same time teaches you a lot.The protagonist of the book is running for the top position at the Bank and has to fight a rival to get there.
There are two specific things which are still fresh in my mind about this book.There is a depiction in the story about how a rumour can ruin a Bank if suddenly all the depositors come to the Bank to withdraw the money.
If everybody comes to ask their money back at the same time, no Bank would be able to return it and would go bankrupt.
Эта книга оказалось совсем не тем, что я ожидала.Я думала, что это будет просто описание работы банка и людей, вовлеченных в этот процесс, но я никак не предвидела ТАКОЕ развитие событий.
Есть 2 явных претендента - Алекс и Роско, у каждого из них есть поддержка в Совете Директоров, но как только Роско произносит магическую фразу "увеличение прибыли", как он тут же вырвается вперед, и Алекс с его "поддержкой социальных проектов", уже не так популярен.
Чтобы закрепить успех, Роско предпринимает еще ряд шагов, на каком-то этапе успешных, но потом что-то идет не так.
While some things show the age of this book (credit cards with a limit of $50!), others show that old axiom the more things change the more they stay the same is as true as always. Financial houses made of cards, businesses too big to fail - that do, greedy bastards who want even more, while the 99% don't really play much of a role in this story. Sound familiar?
An Arthur Hailey classic on the innards of the Banking System before the now ubiquitous internet banking. The plot winds its way through counterfeiting, bank heists, phony companies and general corporate culture in the largest banks. A very interesting read.
This book is left of center. Had a good plot that kept my interest. Had some bad language. I wouldn't reccommed you buy it. I read it because it was handy.
Maybe a little outdated, but still a good read. A very informative thriller about banking, fake money, and crimes.
Amusing, but very dated. Not recommended for the faint of heart, as it contains some pretty heavy stuff.Good if you're really bored.
Not as good as the other books I have read by him, but I gave it an extra star because I happened to be working for Bank of America at the time and a lot of it rang true.
Very good novel once you get past all the info on banking the first couple of chapters.
I am just now realizing how many trashy 70s bestsellers I managed to read back in the 80s.
Actually as I am writing this review I am realizing how many similarities it has with the only other Arthur Hailey book I've read: Overload.-The hero is an industry "maverick" who "plays by his own rules".-He has a complicated personal life.-There is an underworld subplot involving some gruesome violence.-Plenty of unexpected sexual complications.-Copious amounts of industry jargon.Now that I think about it, I am curious if books like these are bestsellers anymore?
Actually, I didn't even realize that I had read this earlier, way back in my teens, until a few plot-lines started to appear familiar.Arthur Hailey is known for his deep research on the topics that he picks up, and then weaving an interesting story around his observations and learning.
Though quite a few things have changed in how banks and financial system works today, but the core concepts still remain relevant, just as the human factors driving those - greed, ambition, altruism, and personal inner conflicts of morality and rationality.It was great fun to read and learn many things about the workings of the financial system in general.Many have complained about the style of prose, but Hailey was a story-teller and not a poet.
Минулого року відкрила для себе автора, яким уже давним-давно захоплюються мільйони читачів.
І я вдячна небу за те, що так, урешті-решт, трапилося — я знайшла його.
Насправді, у 2016-ому прочитала три книги Хейлі: “Менялы”, “В кругах власти”, “Отель”.Хейлі писав цікаво про те, з чим люди стикаються мало не щодня.
Він умів майстерно поєднати галузеві знання про роботу того чи іншого підприємства та переплетіння доль людей, відповідальних за належну роботу цього підприємства.
Ось, наприклад, книга “Менялы”.
Захоплива розповідь про ...банк, гроші та сервіс :) Якщо у вас є бажання зараз прочитати про це, а ще — про любов і ненависть, бентежний успіх і страшну безвихідь, смерть і надію на щасливе майбутнє, тоді читайте цю книгу!
Three and a Half StarsDespite the length, the book feels short.
The writer has included various topics like forgery, cash theft, day to day dealings of a bank, and innumerous shady dealings along with the usual drama to give it a spicy flair.
Perhaps the reason for the earlier sentiment is because at the start, several characters are introduced, and the reader is made to believe that they are all important.
However, they fade into oblivion as the book progresses.
Would the book have gained if less focus had been given on amorous details?
Certainly.
That said, this one is certainly better than some other stuff that the author’s churned out.
Always been in awe of how detailed the inside workings of the industry Arthur Hailey picks as the basis of his fast paced thrillers - this time being the retail banking industry back in the 70s . The politics, the intrigue and the drama - a regular sleaze potboiler around power and greed. Whilst the drama is regular, you do glean a lot of nuggets of info on counterfeiting and the banking system too.
The Money Changers gives a view of the banking industry as it was during the late 1960’s and early 1970’s. Mr. Haley researched it thoroughly. The characters are well drawn, and the plot is interesting and intricate, since it involves several related stories about the employees, executives, and board members of a bank.
I cannot put down this book, simply a great novel about finance, business, competition, money and thirst of money. A brilliant tale of an inside of a banking world. A good story with the up and down adventure. If you like business, money and somehow interest in banking, you should read this book.
С первых страниц прочтения я поняла, почему мне так понравился "Аэропорт" - внимание к деталям, рассказ от лица нескольких героев, объяснение мотивов действий.Однозначно скажу ДА еще нескольким произведениям этого автора.
Even though the book is set in a different era of banking, yet so many things which are relevant even today. The propensity to be allured by big business, the human greed and with all this a beautiful story woven with human emotions. Real good
Read this one in the 70s. Remember enjoying it a lot.
Banking problemsInteresting fictional tale of the lives of those in control and what can go wrong in seeking power and fame
Great read that takes readers inside the secret lives of those in the banking industry. I found this book interesting, well written and another great book by this author.
A must read book
