https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263402.Swan_Song
And Edmund Crispin's delightful series starring Gervase Fen--the Oxford don and quirky amateur detective--is a marvelous example of academic mysteries done right.
An Oxford opera house is putting on a production of Die Meistersinger and while the star of the show, Edwin Shorthouse, may sing like an angel most everyone who knew him thought his origins were from a much warmer climate.
A second member of the cast will die and a third will be attacked before Fen will reveal how a man can be murdered by hanging with no one else in the room--and how revenge can extend beyond the grave.This is great fun and Crispin's writing is a delight.
Después del placer que supuso leer ‘La juguetería errante’, vuelvo con otra novela del británico Edmund Crispin, protagonizada por el excéntrico profesor de Oxford y detective aficionado Gervase Fen. Las novelas de Crispin están llenas de ironía y humor, y en ellas asistimos a las deducciones de tal peculiar personaje.‘El canto del cisne’ nos propone otro crimen a puerta cerrada, improbable desde cualquier punto de vista, y con múltiples sospechosos.
Nos encontramos en Oxford, en los ensayos de la ópera Los maestros cantores de Núremberg, de Wagner, con lo que esto conlleva: manías de los actores, rencillas, egos subidos de tono y envidias varias.
No me ha gustado mucho, y no tanto porque sea un mal libro (que no lo es) como por lo mal que ha sobrevivido al paso del tiempo. Ni le he terminado de pillar el punto al sentido del humor, ni le he cogido el ritmo a la novela que, para que nos entendamos, parecía un Cluedo.

Written in 1946, this book describes the first production, in England after the war, of Die Meistersinger (banned during the war because the Nazis loved Wagner) and several murders that occur during rehearsals.
I especially loved it because, even though I caught one of the most important clues early on, I never figured out what to make of it, and then Crispin wound up fooling me not once, but twice in the denouement.
This particular edition, however, from Felony and Mayhem Press, is so full of misprints that it borders on the unreadable.
Although I love the eccentric Gervase Fen, I think in this story, one of my favorite characters who doesn't even figure prominently in the story, is John Barfield, who seemed never not to be eating.
Elizabeth felt, in the face of this phenomenon, something of the awe of a Coenobite visited by an archangel and was startled at the hurried refocusing of familiar objects which such an experience involves.""The room into which an elderly, heavy-footed maid-servant ushered her was untidy - so untidy as to suggest the aftermath of a burglary."Crispin had such wit, sometimes in choosing the name of his characters - "...the stage-door-keeper shuffled out of it.
Adam said as much to Fen.
A charming detective story that's also a really clever impossible crime. Set in an opera company, and mostly in Oxford (the characters take tea at the Randolph and drink at the Bird and Baby!), it's a really fun, fast and enjoyable read, and the denouement is extremely smart. 12+*Please note: this review is meant as a recommendation only. Please do not use it in any marketing material, online or in print, without asking permission from me first. Thank you!*
Ett ”closed room mystery”, där en operasångare hittas hängd på teatern och Gervase Fen ska lösa gåtan.Själva gåtan var bra uttänkt, men boken är skriven 1947 och det är lite komplicerat språk, vilket gör att den tar för lång tid att läsa. Annars gillar jag Gervase Fen som karaktär, och det är småroligt i dialogen.
De hecho, Gervase no aparece de cuerpo presente hasta la página 61, aunque tampoco es que le echase mucho de menos antes, de hecho, el principio me pareció mucho más entretenido que el resto de la novela que a ratos me cojeó un poco con respecto al ritmo narrativo (y porque me reí menos que con la anterior).Han pasado unos añitos después de la juguetería errante, y si dije que en la anterior novela el coprotagonista era la literatura, en este, casi estoy por decir, que es la II guerra mundial, encontraremos varias referencias a ella a lo largo de la novela:Que en un mundo en el que los físicos atómicos pasean libremente por la calle, profiriendo sus habituales lamentos sobre el uso indeseable que los políticos hacen de la ciencia, un asesino no pueda encontrar una víctima más apropiada que un desgraciado cantante de ópera...
Edmund Crispin's Swan Song (1947) features Gervase Fen for the 4th time in what proves to be as much of a romantic comedy as a murder mystery, though Fen does solve an ingenious murder.Barzun and Taylor's A Catalogue of Crime (1971) says"Educated at Merchant Taylors' and St. John's, Oxford, Edmund Crispin is a man of letters and a musician (organist and composer) as well as one of the masters of modern detective fiction since his 22nd year.
This book deserves five stars for the totally ingenious locked room murder alone.
The whole cast of the Wagner opera in which he has a part have motives for disposing of him though to many - including the police - it appears to be suicide because no one could have committed the crime.Of course Gervase Fen discovers a solution to the mystery of how anyone could have done with a little help from a skeleton and the police.
I don't always think that Crispin's full length novels work as well as his short stories but this one is excellent with some marvellously amusing scenes and of course the ingenious crime itself.
Gervase Fen is of course a unique and thoroughly wonderful protagonist, which makes these stories on a par with the very best mysteries of all time.
As with my experience trying to read the Stacy Bishop tale, often locked room mysteries focus so much on the trick of solving the crime, we often have little to enjoy in the story that carries it all.
It’s interesting to me that Crispin writes so cinematically, when cinema was only a few decades old during his heyday.
After the initial murder, which has stumped everyone, there are attempts on the lives of two of the young protagonists in the story.
Fen just blithely questions suspects and zooms around the English countryside seeking enlightenment.Part of the fun for me in reading this book is that it centers around the pre-production and opening of a Wagner opera in Oxford.
So, it was great fun to read about the temperamental cast, the ambitious composers, and the political implications of performing Wagner during WW2.
Crispin did a masterful job in bringing his reader directly in to the chaos and emotions of the opera's cast.The denouement was beyond complicated and I didn't follow every technical detail, but that didn't detract a bit from my enjoyment of this classic mystery.
I am not usually fooled by the author, but I have to admit that this time, I was!
I felt a little bit cheated due to the intricacy of the method, but the author played fair concerning murderer and motive.Gervase Fen as an erudite private detective with apparent complete police sanction, is pretty far-fetched as he seems to belong the "armchair" breed of literary detective rather than the "hands on" kind.The plot boils down to who killed the leading male singer of an opera company, and even more puzzling, how was it done?
There is a subsequent murder and several attacks on various members of the same opera company.
I do love Gervase Fen - academic, amateur detective and always finding himself consulted in convoluted crimes seemingly with the support of the local police. This one is especially good, I think. There are good strong female characters (albeit ones jolly keen to get married), lots of witty references to other fictional detectives and many great one liners. The mystery aspect is well done too, if a little hard to imagine at the end. Great stuff.
A wonderful series of old fashioned who dun its, recently discovered. Beautifully written, using erudite words I needed to look up! A joy to read. This one centred around Wagner's Die Meistersinger. Written in 1947, the social mores of the time were fascinating in a sociological sense. Wagner's music had been unacceptable in war time Britain. Quirky, diverting and enchanting. Must seek out more Gervase Fen mysteries.
This is my first Gervase Fen book and I rather enjoyed it. Mr. Fen doesn’t show up in the story until chapter 6, the first five chapters instead introduce us to Adam, a prime suspect, Eleanor, a crime writer married to Adam, and Edwin Shorthouse, a man who no one seems to like. It is the last who turns up dead, apparently of suicide, hanging in the theater in which he has caused so many problems.
I enjoyed the book until the end. The solutions of these types of stories are just too ridiculous. I can't imagine anyone going to all that trouble. When did he do his research? Where was his spouse? How did he happen to know....well you get it. Just too far fetched for me. It really spoils the book to, in my opinion, really have no ending. I'd prefer a more likely scenario.
Charming but fantastic. Not much more to say beyond my title - Crispin is a wonderful writer with a wry sense of humor and grand delivery, but the solution to the crime was too too odd. Nonetheless I'm off in search of more by the same author.
Entertaining and tightly-plotted murder mystery. Wagner fans will enjoy the numerous references to his works and notable performers of them. I also enjoyed the challenging vocabulary and had to look up numerous words such as heirophantically, objurgatory, exiguous, epicene, and atavism.
This had one of the most interesting solutions/conclusions I've ever seen in all my years of reading mystery fiction.
I like Edmund Crispin's mysteries. This one was fun. Fun highfalutin language, sort of snooty but ultimately pretty down-to-earth detective, and convoluted locked-room mystery with lots of suspects.
a period whodunnit (after the war) with not too much gore,so quite pleasant reading .
The mechanics of the not-locked-as-such room mystery were a bit obvious, though I didn't get the whodunnit at all, which had a nice enough twist to it. Shame he died at the start.
Crispy from Crispin !
My 4th in this series. Love the feel of Oxford. Fun characters and a good, easy read.
Tenía cuarenta y tres años, y era enjuto, larguirucho, con ojos azules y un pelo castaño que intentaba alisarse a base de agua, aunque con poco éxito.”) y la muerte del odioso bajo, tenemos todos los ingredientes para montar un cóctel suntuoso que ofrece equilibradamente: buen humor, metáforas/juegos literarias/os y musicales y una buena trama policial en la más insigne tradición inglesa de las novelas de detectives.Crispin no se cortará para demostrar su conocimiento del mundo de la ópera y de las propias obras como se puede comprobar en el siguiente texto que emparenta directamente con la obra de Wagner anteriormente mencionada:“Adam fue a buscar un teléfono.
Es ist mal wieder an der Zeit, einige Bücher auszusortieren, die ich doch nicht lesen möchte - dieses gehört dazu.
This book is so thoroughly backward looking that one character's musings that "As he grew older he lived more and more in the past.
The real pleasure in this case is all in the telling, and Crispin is a fun and witty story teller who populates his books with energetic and fully fleshed characters.
I was fairly excited to read this book, having just really enjoyed another Edmund Crispin novel.
Several people announce that they had considered killing the dead person themselves.- The police think it is suicide; Gervese Fen thinks it is murder.
Everyone tells Fen he should leave well enough alone because the world is better off without the dead person.- Fen spends quite a while with a moral dilemma; meanwhile, two couples fall in love and become engaged.- One member of the newly engaged couples is also murdered.
Everyone is surprised and alarmed.- By the end, the murderer(s) is dead, saving Fen from his dilemma.I liked the first one enough to give Crispin another shot, so I've got one more book to read.
