https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89723.The_Lottery_and_Other_Stories
“Grace Paley once described the male-female writer phenomenon to me by saying,’Women have always done men the favor of reading their work, but the men have not returned the favor.’”  I do believe that Miss Jackson was making a very pointed comment about male readers. I don’t consciously think about reading a male or female writer, but I know that I do read more male writers. I went back and looked at the last thirty books I’ve read:22 male writers 73%8 female writers 27%I wasn’t expecting to fin
I went back and looked at the last thirty books I’ve read:22 male writers 73%8 female writers 27%I wasn’t expecting to find a 50/50 split or anything, but I was still shocked to see that my ratio was so extremely out of balance.
Does that make any sense?Jackson and her publisher were shocked and, frankly, astounded at the vehement reaction to her story.
After the dust settled, I’m sure that Jackson had to be privately pleased that something she wrote scared people or certainly inspired them to action.
Shirley Jackson may not have had the most endearing view of people.
The normal quickly becomes a twilight zone nightmare even if it's only a tiny little thing that's changed.A dog caught killing chickens.
:) But more than that, I was really impressed and fascinated at the look into '40's racism, subtle or not, how badly women were treated and how badly they treated each other, and the general miasma of inhumanity everywhere.Some tales were all about the unspoken silence that surrounded mental illness and the insane pressure to keep a lid on it and remain "normal".
Things like this may not be completely horror as the genre but the tension was definitely all horror.Shirly Jackson's stories were absolutely macabre, quite brilliant, and completely understated.
there are tales with children and mothers in them, with slight transference of evil between them; people turning against each other in a lesser degree of violence than in the culminating climax of the title story, an almost poetic announcement of the apocalypse written in code), even though there are sure-fire connections (Mr. Harris is the name of almost every single male character found scattered in the stories), what occurs to these people, tragedy or sudden revulsion or deep depression or severe psychosis, is almost as if by a mystical collective lottery, one everyone plays in because everyone is...
The Lottery is by far the best story in this collection, which made the process of reading all of the other stories a bit of a drag at times, but overall I enjoyed this! A lot of Jackson's stories tackle big issues like racism and mental illness really effortlessly, and I loved that. Plenty of them were also super dark and twisted but in Jackson's classic, understated and simple style, which made for a fun, creepy read at times. I definitely prefer Shirley Jackson's novels, but this makes a great addition to my collection and I'm glad I read it.
- seems to be pushing Shirley Jackson as H.P. Lovecraft with ovaries.
The cover proclaims 'A study in nightmares-by the most haunting writer of this generation' It's even subtitled 'Adventures of the Demon Lover'.
Anyone who's ever read that story knows the lover in that tale is more scoundrel than demon.
Whatever it takes to sell books, I suppose.Jackson's characters do more than throw stones at one another.
Waving around a copy of a book that I was not particularly fond of but wanted to show off in public so as to appear to be an intellectual...
Horror stories?
Some ash falls down onto one final slice of the bread, and Shirley leans over and blows it away before forming the last sloppy package.The kids run down the stairs now with a great commotion and fill the kitchen with chaos, grabbing their bagged lunches, stopping to receive a kiss on their heads from their mother, then making more noise by the front door as they cover their bodies with jackets and boots.
Settle down.”Stan laughs loudly and gives a hard slap to Shirley's generous bottom as he shouts, “Back to work, golden girl!” then grabs his briefcase and makes his own departure, humming as he walks out the door.Shirley, grunting, crushes her cigarette out in the sink, then shuffles slowly in her slippers to the front door.
If so, I'm in love with Shirley.The title story needs no introduction: in fact, this is the one which first led me to Shirley Jackson (and The Haunting of Hill House, which so far I've not been able to read).
In some stories, this results in the total emotional domination of one human being by another, leading to virtual slavery (Like Mother Used to Make, Men with Their Big Shoes).
(view spoiler)[A woman on the search for her lover who has stood her up on her wedding morning, runs him to earth in an apartment where he is apparently holed up.
Jackson's tale is undeniably creepy and tells a story that, though seemingly unknown to us, draws parallels with our world and the ridiculous way people are prone to behave at times.
but it's meaning is something that applies still today.It all comes down to one simple three-syllable word: tradition.
In Jackson's short story, every person in the town where this novel finds its setting is forced to draw a ticket in The Lottery.
Will you see it coming?As the story builds up to its climax, we see the town citizens discussing the tradition of The Lottery.
I--The Intoxicated--The Daemon Lover--Like Mother Used To Make--Trial By Combat--The Villager--My Life With R. H. MacyII--The Witch--The Renegade--After You, My Dear Alphonse--Charles--Afternoon In Linen--Flower Garden--Dorothy And My Grandmother And The SailorsIII--Colloquy--Elizabeth--A Fine Old Firm--The Dummy--Seven Types Of Ambiguity--Come Dance With Me In IrelandIV--Of Course--Pillar Of Salt--Men With Their Big Shoes--The Tooth--Got A Letter From Jimmy--The LotteryV--Epilogue
Let us speak of a time where the laws may have been more overt but the mentality was ever the same, the mythos of the infamous 50's of the United States and how much farther we US citizens have come since then except, of course, last night 6 o'clock Pacific Time or hearabouts due to the prosecutor's insistence on spending time blaming the protests, the social media, any and all publicizing of dissent not intimately processed by corporation and incorporated, proved that was not the case.I have full faith in the capabilities of the average US city equipped with a white majority to partake in the human sacrifice of the Lottery.
One of the things I'm always honest about is books, and despite the fact that this book was written by Shirley, I wasn't crazy about it.I was aware going in that this was not a collection of horror tales, though certainly, some of them are horrific.
The fact that some of these families were so racist and didn't even realize it was commentary enough.
Lastly, a few of these stories were horror, in my opinion, The Lottery the most well known and the most horrific.
There is a whole 'nother thing going on with James Harris, a character that is featured in some of these stories.
My personal favourites of this collection:The IntoxicatedLike Mother Used to MakeThe WitchCharlesFlower GardenSeven Types of AmbiguityCome Dance with Me in IrelandOf CourseMen with Their Big Shoesand of courseThe Lottery (it still stuns)Every one of the stories in this collection is well worth your time, but of course we all have our favourites. Wonder what yours will be.
"The Renegade" is incredibly moving, as a housewife just transplanted to the rural wilds has to contend with the family dog's depredations on the local chickens (Women are, of course, Ms. Jackson's forte, and especially city women in the country and country women in the city; women with failed dreams and women who wonder how they got where they are, with husbands and children)."Flower Garden", one of the two longish stories here (the other is "Elizabeth"), is a subtle tale of small-town myopia and racial bigotry in which Jackson sketches out invisible cultural scaffoldings with ease (a more subtle take on racial interaction is offered in the short "After You, My Dear Alphonse" which illustrates some ideas about what would now be called, and for ease I'd refer to as, "liberal guilt" if I didn't consider it a propaganda term used by idiotic cultural warriors out to destroy human compassion).Many of the stories are wryly funny.
Read this book for one reaction: gasping "whaaaaaat!" or perhaps "whaaaaat?" (punctuation varies) after reading the final sentence of every story.Shirley Jackson is the indisputable master of the "whaaaaaat!/?" Some stories end ambiguously, leaving you scrambling back through the pages searching for a clue or alternately racing to open Google to read others' wise analyses.
I have now read dozens of her short stories and one of her novels and I am convinced that I know of no author who finishes every piece with such decisive flourish.
In short, horror is real life.These stories have a rare rereadable quality.
"25 Demonic Stories", my arse!I am so utterly disappointed!I picked up this book because I expected it to contain a bunch of creepy short stories, as the subtitle suggests.
There may be two or three mildly creepy stories, but to promote this book by saying it was 25 of them, is simply wrong.
Society norms?Shirley Jackson's short story collection - The Lottery and Other Stories -- delves into the feelings, lives and disjointed experiences of those people who live outside the norm.
I read each one and thought about how it made me feel, what I thought of the characters and their lives, before I moved another story closer to The Lottery.Shirley Jackson's writing is subtle.
I was left cleaning up the mess just like poor old David Turner.I read and enjoyed the first 24 stories in this book....and then finally, there it was.......The Lottery.
"Because it was raining and the day seemed unimportant she put on the first things she came to; a grey tweed suit that she knew was shapeless and heavy on her now that she was so thin, a blue blouse that never felt comfortable."The main character mentioned above from the short story "Elizabeth" really unsettled me, as did many of the seemingly simple stories about Homelife and suburbia. A.M. Homes wrote in her introduction to this collection by FSG: "Her stories take place in small towns, in ki
A.M. Homes wrote in her introduction to this collection by FSG: "Her stories take place in small towns, in kitchens, at cocktail parties...These stories chart intention, behavior—they are an intimate exploration of the psychopathology of everyday life, the small-town sublime."I spent two weeks trying to decide which books to pack with me on my month long trip to Ireland, and at the very last moment (the night before), I opted to leave my huge Jackson omnibus at home, and travel with my Kindle editions of her stories, novels, and essays.
It is still my favourite short story of Jackson's and is the one which bumps this entire series to at least 7.5.I can't say I have any other favourites in the bunch -- they all make me think that they would have been much better played on The Twilight Zone, where they would have come to life in their wonderful peculiarities.
I was/am a great fan of The Twilight Zone, where the decidedly-weird creeps forth and disturbs your thoughts and banishes a good night's sleep; and where the social commentary it injected into its episodes come back to haunt one decades later, with Serling's foreshadowings.
Especially good were "Like Mother used to Make," "The Witch," "Flower Garden," "The Dummy," and "The Lottery."I read "The Lottery" for the first time only a few months ago, and it felt like I was five years too late--from what I hear, this story tends to get read in high school English classes; if any of the courses I took in high school had provided this as reading material, I would've loved it.
I loved most of these stories but I love Jackson's style most of all. A few tales in here left me wanting more and had me turning back the pages for a reread but overall a stellar collection of strange tales. My favourites were:The Daemon LoverTrial by CombatMy Life With R.H. MacyThe WitchThe RenegadeCharlesThe Flower GardenSeven Types of AmbiguityOf CoursePillar of SaltThe ToothGot a Letter from JimmyAnd, of course The LotteryI would highly recommend Jackson's short stories to anyone.
What a great collection! Some of my favorite short stories were: Charles (very cheeky and funny), Flower Garden (great psychological piece about racism and prejudice), The Tooth (very weird and surreal) and obviously, The Lottery, which is such a classic that everyone should have read and that apparently inspired The Hunger Games. Can't wait to read more of Shirley Jackson's writing!
4.5There is an undercurrent of unease in all of her short stories. They're creepy and a bit haunting. You read each story with your breath held, just waiting for something disastrous to happen. She writes exquisitely and her descriptions are brilliant. She's also a superbly observationist of human behaviour.
We view with horror at the barbarity and insanity of the custom, just as we consider the Romans barbaric for entertaining themselves with gladiators.
But perhaps a visitor to the U.S. without previous exposure may find American football, shoulders banging into heads and players piling on top of each other, also “barbaric and insane.”Shirley JacksonWe do not question our customs and habits just as the villagers in the story do not theirs.
Through Jackson’s story, the reader reflects on his or her customs and habits, most of which are detrimental only when gone through without understanding their purposes.
La cotidianidad es mas terrorífica de lo que pensamos y estos relatos nos lo demuestran. Encantada con la pluma de la autora.
I would recommend that you don’t read “The Lottery and Other Stories” as a whole book, but rather that you read a couple of stories, put the text down and read another book, then pick it back up and read a couple more and so on until the collection is finished.
It stands out.The best stories in this text are those where the point Ms. Jackson was trying to make is not so subtle.
I have read “The Lottery” a dozen times over the years and each time some different little detail in the text chills me to my core.
It is the little subtleties in the text that are horrifying and this piece is a great choice to end this collection.
We understand it in a vague historical sense, and from the inescapable things that bind humans, like eating and sleeping, but like Yoda might say, "Grok it, you do not."We can somewhat understand our parent's time from the memories of early childhood, but can we truly understand what it was like to only use an outhouse?
Were boots all stacked up by the back door?Shirley gives us glimpses of a time that most of us can't truly grasp.
I think this is the first time I gave a short story collection five stars, but damn, this collection was amazing.
My third Shirley Jackson -after We Have Always Lived In The Castle and Let Me Yell You- and she keeps impressing me.
Even though the stories are short, you feel like you know the characters; you know how they think and act, you know their traits.
The Lottery a great example: starting of like a normal story about a village, but you soon feel something is off; something bad is about to happen...
The Lottery is one of my favorite short stories. It is so twisted, like The Crucible, I think it is a great commentary on how groups of people are infinitely more dangerous than individuals because mass hysteria, dogmatic thinking, and a lack of personal responsibility prevents anyone from speaking out against atrocities.
Cuando leo algo como esto, no puedo evitar pensar en dos cosas: "de lo bueno, poco", "hay que tener talento para decir tanto en con tan poco"Es brillante, no hay más y no es difícil ver de dónde han sacado ideas algunos de las novelas más conocidas de miedo, terror, distopía y demás.No pude evitar pensar, por ejemplo en Los juegos del hambre, fácilmente de este relato bien pudieron haber tomado la idea, este relato es escalofriante, sin decir gran mucho te envuelve en lo que que remata en un final magistra
Excelente, efectivo y escalofriante. Esta autora me está gustando muchísimo
