https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/194755.Esio_Trot
And, as we all know, when you eat more, you get bigger, right?He discovers that what Alfie likes best is some of the flowers Mr. Hoppy grows on his balcony.
I am a fantasy author after all.) Mr. Hoppy feeds Alfie every night, and Alfie grows bigger and bigger and bigger…Finally, Mrs. Silver is overcome with joy and invites Mr Hoppy down to her apartment to show off her lovely tortoise.
"I've been feeding Alfie special recipes every night so he would grow bigger.""Oh Mr. Hoppy," Mrs. Silver said.
I knew Alfie was really important to you, and I wanted you to be happy.""I know that too," Mrs. Silver said.
2nd book complete
Three stars for marital implications and pet care. The Fundamental Three Facts 1) Mr. Hoppy is in love with his neighbor, Mrs. Silver.2) Mrs. Silver adores her pet tortoise, Alfie, but worries about how small he is. 3) Mr. Hoppy gives Mrs. Silver a "magic" spell. Aka, he kidnaps Alfie, slowly replacing him with larger tortoises (pretending all the while it's the same tortoise).Ex-CUSE me??Sure, it's cute to read about Mr. Hoppy wooing Mrs. Silver but don't forget, Mr. Hoppy deceives  Mrs. Silver
1) Mr. Hoppy is in love with his neighbor, Mrs. Silver.2) Mrs. Silver adores her pet tortoise, Alfie, but worries about how small he is.
Aka, he kidnaps Alfie, slowly replacing him with larger tortoises (pretending all the while it's the same tortoise).Ex-CUSE me??Sure, it's cute to read about Mr. Hoppy wooing Mrs. Silver but don't forget, Mr. Hoppy deceives  Mrs. Silver.
And that poor unwitting widow marries the him.This man crammed over a hundred tortoises into one small apartment for this grand scheme.
Alfie lived with Mrs. Silver for eleven years but as soon as Mr. Hoppy swaps him out, Mrs. Silver couldn't tell the difference.
This is yet another wonderful story from Roald Dahl - this time of middle-aged love thanks to some turtles and some clever swapping by Mr. Hoppy. I am sure that he and Mrs Silver are perfect for each other and happy that Alfie found a new home. This is a story that you can read in about 30 minutes to your child and it is a pure delight for both you and your kid!
While it is an innocent admiration, Mr. Hoppy soon learns that Mrs. Silver's only love is directed towards her tortoise, Alfie.
After concocting a plan than involves a magical spell and daily recitations, Mr. Hoppy takes matters into his own hands and has Mrs. Silver follow his direction.
Alfie seems to grow on a daily basis and Mrs. Silver is ecstatic at the change.
One can only hope that there are other stories out there that have just as much humour and excitement, perfect for readers of all ages.Kudos, Mr. Dahl for pulling me out of my 'shell' and taking the time to read this.

I find this story of middle-aged love delightful.
It's also the first chapter book that my oldest, now 13, read all the way through.
Mr. Hoppy is over the moon that Mrs. Silver says she will be his "slave for life!" if he can help her get her tortoise to grow.
But he's in love with her, and she with him, actually.
He doesn't make her his "slave," they get married and are happy.
I also saw several comments about the "poor tortoises." Which is weird.
It explains exactly what happens to all the tortoises involved, and they lead very happy lives.
It's a cute story.
What the hell, Roald Dahl?(view spoiler)[If I had a pet I loved more than anything else in the world, I would FUCKING NOTICE if it was stolen by the creepy asshole upstairs and replaced with a different animal, even if I was as daft as Mrs. Silver. Also, children learn things from their books. Do we really want to teach them that the way to have a healthy relationship is to first lie, then steal something beloved, then GIVE THAT THING AWAY?  (hide spoiler)]I can't even.I can't.What the hell.
There is such a simple, straightforward and very (grown up) human story at the heart of 'Esio Trot' and it does feel somehow different from many other Dahl books in it's nature. The characters here are the key and are so well written. The humour in 'Esio Trot' is of a very gentle and affectionate kind.This is a short book and a great story told by a master. To call it a 'feel-good' novel would somehow belittle and stereotype this lovely book, but there is definitely something very heart-warming here about people, life and the human spirit.
But he's also shy and doesn't know how to approach her - until her pet, the tortoise Alfie, gives him the perfect chance.The problem I had with this was that (view spoiler)[Mr. Hoppy tricked Mrs. Silver and supposedly never told her the truth (hide spoiler)].
Moreover, the author showed once again just how many ideas are floating around his head and how much he can do with simple tricks (like the "secret" of the magic language).The book features the signature illustrations by Quentin Blake (mine, luckily, in black-and-white, not coloured like the example above).Oh, did you know that this was made into a movie?
Okay, so I read this as a sort of long distance buddy read with my seven year old niece.
Mainly because she fell in love with mine while we read a couple of them together when she came to visit last year, so her mum got her a set too.
She absolutely loves books and reading.
Anyway, we decided to start our long distance buddy read with Esio Trot.
We both read the book in our own homes, then as soon as we finished it, Daisy rung me to discuss the book.Her favourite part was the ending.
Overall, this is a fun feel-good story that we both enjoyed.
Published: 6/11/2003Author: Roald DahlRecommended for: pretty much everybody!
I think that this is one of the sweetest books that Roald Dahl has done!
In this book it features Mr Hoppy who is hopelessly in love with Mrs Silver however there is a problem.....she has her heart filled with love for her tortoise Alfie.
In the book Mr Hoppy comes up with a cunning plan to try and win Mrs Siler's heart.
It is a fun, lighthearted, sweet book, that in my opinion is great for any aged reader, it is a tireless classic by one of the best childrens author with the excellent illustrations by the talented Quentin Blake.
“‘Esio Trot’, it’s Tortoise spelt backwards”Another of my favourite Dahl stories as a kid as Mr Hoppy a shy old man develops a bonkers scheme to impress he’s neighbour Mrs. Silver. She just wants her little tortoise to grow slightly larger.The mad brain scheme sees Mr Hoppy buys as many tortoises as possible and slowly lowers the next size down each day after convincing Mrs. Silver that he knows a magic rhythm that will help the little fella grow.It’s such a fun quick read, the illustrations of Mr Poppy trying to juggle all the tortoise are such fun!A timeless classic!
What a delightful story. Amazing what one will do for love!
Went to bed listening to this.Remembered it when I was young and owned the book.Forgot how cute it was. Only took about half an hour.Loved it.
I read this one as a child and loved it so this summer when I was looking for read aloud books for my then 5 year old this one made my short list.
I Loved Roald Dahl books as a child and couldn't wait to start reading them to my son.
This one is significantly shorter than the other books I wanted to tackle with him so I thought this would be a good place to start.
Not only did that never occur to me when I read it as a kid, but i didn't even pick up on that as an issue as we were reading it aloud this time around.
When he heard the words your slave for life, a little shiver of excitement swept through Mr. Hoppy.So this is supposed to be a fucking horror novel, right?
A thriller where this insanely lonesome man stalks his downstairs neighbor & then KIDNAPS her beloved pet tortoise?
Then sends Alfie, her tortoise, back to the pet store.
The same cannot be said for Mrs. Silver..I read this for an Instagram readalong of Dahl books, which is going on for the entire month of August.
This was one of two books in his entire collection that I do not recall reading.
It is a tiny little book, perfect for reading to my wee dragons this afternoon.

لا أدري كيف لقصة كهذه من المفترض أنها تُقدم للأطفال أن تقدم لهم الكذب في صورة رومانسية هكذا دون أن تلمح ولو مجرد تلميح إلى قبحه أو احتمالية اكتشافه ولو من بعيد، جميل أن نحاول الوصول لمن نحب بأي وسيلة كانت لكن ليس بالطبع الكذب من بينها!
worst RD book i've ever read.the mister is kinky and mistress shallow and materialistic, and their marriage is built on lies. and let's not even mention the thing going on with them animals. and it's okay to trick/sham your love into a marriage by doing something crappy to something/one beloved of hers.
Atau kalaupun masih, siapa tahu akan ada orang lain yang duluan menyatakan suka padanya, sehingga mereka hidup bahagia bersama saling menyukai tanpa mengajak2 kamu.
Atau sebenarnya dia pun suka padamu tapi tidak berani bilang, dan jadilah kalian hidup merana seumur2 tanpa tahu bahwa kalian saling suka.Demikianlah pesan moral cerita Aruk-aruk ini, tentang kisah cinta terpendam antara Pak Hoppy dan Bu Silver, sepasang manula yang tinggal di sebuah apartemen.
Tapi cara berceritanya, seperti biasa, gampang dipahami anak2, sehingga mereka mungkin akan memahami pesan moral itu dengan mudah dan mengingatnya sampai mereka lebih besar dan jauh lebih besar lagi kelak.Nambahin moral cerita sedikit lagi: Kalau kamu suka pada seseorang, baiklah cepat sampaikan kepadanya.
This was such an odd book to come from Dahl-the author of some quite decent children's books-that I really don't know why it even exists.
It has some very shaky morals and rather dull writing.
The ending is actually quite Dahl-unpredictable and very not-of-the-norm, but it was so abrupt and weird that I just can't even think of anything else to say.
In most cases I'd say don't read it-oh please don't let your children read this one-but honestly, I think you need to read this just to understand what I'm talking about.It was just wrong.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
I've read Roald Dahl's books probably about 5 times each. They are primarily for kids, but I even picked them up and read them again just this last summer. You should experience him at least once in your lifetime. They all have a twist in the end and are brilliantly original and creative.
I don't know what to say, really.
'Tis indeed a grand romantic gesture on Mr. Hoppy's part as he does whatever it takes to win Mrs. Silver's affections . . . but are lies and deception really the best way to start off a relationship?This is definitely not one of Dahl's best, but it's better than no Dahl at all.
Bloody 'ell! I dunno what happened here. Roald Dahl, one of the most imaginative children's writers ever has lost the plot here. He had an idea of a story and it feels like he couldn't figure how to get the story out of his head. Esio Trot is very brief, it shows you how to manipulate a daft woman and it ends very flat.My daughter and I found it dull and was glad when it was over and we could move onto something else. If you are a Roald Dahl fan then avoid this one because you'll only be disappointed.
I read this as a child, and reading it as an adult definitely reveals some other ideas...
such as the ridiculousness of Mr Hoppy and how inappropriate what he does is, as well said by Patrick Rothfuss in a review of his.
This was the shortest book on my “unread” shelf (even though yes, I read it as a child - I’m still counting it as previously unread) and I decided to start the year off promptly after midnight reading it as the first in my project to read all the short books on my shelves this year.
Mr. Hoppy and Mrs. Silver live in apartments on top of one another and they see each other around their balcony.
Mr. Hoppy is shy and doesn't really talk to her unless it's about her turtle.
He even comes up with magic words which the title is part of tortoise spelled backwards that he gives Mrs. Silver to help the turtle grow bigger.
The story feels a little deceitful and it's also simply fun and I find myself enjoying the silly antics of Mr. Hoppy.
It's a short little read with of Roald Dahl's wit and imagination.
I enjoyed this charming story.
My year of Roald Dahl continues.....This is a cute story where Mr. Hoppy is in love with Mrs. Silver, but her heart belongs to Alfie, her pet tortoise. Mr. Hoppy tries to win her heart over by helping her tortoise "grow" to the length and height that Mrs. Silver wants. His plan takes one hundred and forty tortoises, an ancient spell, and a little bit of magic.
Vaguely remember this! So it couldn't of been that good
