https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153792.Cold_Fire
But at the same time, the last book was so well written, and this one was, too, and the fact it’s NIGHTMARE FUEL sort of sets it apart despite that formula existing.This book belongs to Daja.
Their stories intertwine as a series of fires begin devastating the area, which is mostly made up wooden buildings.SPOILERS AHOY: Please turn back now and don’t read the next paragraph if you don’t want to be entirely spoiled while I work out my feelings about this book.(view spoiler)[Daja and Ben hit it off right away when they meet.
The strong point about Street Magic was the relationship between Briar and Evvy; similarly, the weak point of this book was the lack of relationship between Daja and Jory, or Daja and Nia. None of the ancillary characters in Cold Fire really felt like people.
Right before the very climax of the book we have like, five pages of Daja just traveling and thinking, which totally ruins the pace of the action.
Unfortunately, Daja's storylines always involve her fighting against fires which leaves a lot less room for her actual character to unfold and grow.Overall, Cold Fire really reads like Tamora Pierce just didn't care.
Daja and Frostpine are working in the snowy city of Kugisko when a rash of devastating fires breaks out.
The structure of this quartet remains formulaic, but this installment is surprisingly good.
The setting, fire against snow in a well-defined woodworked city, is evocative; the plot is simplistic but the characters are not--gracelessly in the antagonist's case, but the supporting cast is strong.
The nostalgia is toned down and the themes of maturation are less clear-cut, which gives Daja room to shine instead of slotting her into the series's formula.
I still don't love this quartet, but this is one of its better installments.
review to come :)
They insist on the children learning, but they are flexible enough to adjust to the potential of their girls.One of the many positives is Daja's wanting to create something new.
The not-so fun is when Daja discovers two young mages and learns she must teach them how to handle their abilities!
Someone is setting bigger and bigger fires, and people are dying.The CharactersDaja Kisubo is traveling with her mentor, the firemage Frostpine, to learn new techniques — and to take her mind off her friends who are also traveling.Kolborn, a merchant, and Matazi Bancanor, his wife and a former seamstress, are the family who are hosting Daja and Frostpine.
Those priorities are Daja Kisubo.I think I'm just really enjoying the grounded, sensible magic of this universe being explored as the characters journey out into the world away from their familiar home!
Magic Steps wasn't as big of a change because Sandry was close enough to Winding Circle to visit, but Street Magic and Cold Fire both showed us entirely different places and main characters who have to work at adapting to these places.
Sensible, proud, but still a kid, she learns a lesson about trust and where to place it at the same time that she teaches two very different young mages.
Daja Kisubu and her teacher Frostpine have come to a series of islands to learn more metal magic.
The islands are frozen most of the year, and Frostpine spends most of the book kvetching about the cold (even going so far as to meditate naked in the kitchen hearth fire, much to the kitchen staffs' amazement).
Daja is having the time of her life learning to iceskate and make metal filigree.
Unlike her friends, she manages to find teachers for their cooking and carpentry magic, but still takes on teaching them meditation.
Warning for ~spoilers~Despite their being somewhat one-dimensional, having two unapologetic lady villains in the previous two stories was refreshing.
BUT it was really amazing for this story to complicate everything with a villain that started pretty morally grey and then descended into scary town, and all from his own POV.
I also have really delighted in the choices made for each of the kids handling their respective antagonists.
I was worried that this series was set up for the all the kids to "kill or be killed", but the scenarios have been more complex than that and each one handled deftly in respect to character and situation.
Daja is completely caught up in helping the twins, whose magic she just discovered, to harness and control their powers when house fires begin to mysteriously become more and more frequent.
She begins to work closely with local firefighting expert, Bennat Ladradun, to find the fire bug responsible for these heinous acts but will her search lead Daja to something she is not prepared to face?I have honestly lost count of how many times I've read and reread this series.
I hurt so much for Daja every time I read this one and it never gets any better.
I really enjoyed this book. I like how Daja was receiving training on how to ice skate. I thought that is was funny how she would go crashing into the snowbank, and then melt all the snow with her body heat. I like how she realized that Jory and Nia had magic as well. I like how she was able to help the little village with their fire problems. I am glad that in the end they discovered who was setting the fires and that Daja was able to save them. I would rate this book 5 stars.
I adore this series! You can see my series review on the blog.
You know that Tumblr silliness about someone being a precious cinnamon roll, too good and pure for this world? That's Daja. Oh, Daja, you are wonderful.
I hate it when characters you like turn out to be evil. Poor Daja. Ben was her friend! :(
CONGRATS :|)I felt so sorry for Daja in this book though, with all the fires happening here and her not being able to do much more than react as they were happening, (view spoiler)[while all the while her new friend Ben was the one behind it the entire time and Daja, thinking he was a hero that was out to save people (and not the asshole setting the fires himself), making him "fire-proof" gloves that helped him to carry out his two biggest arson attacks in the entire novel with a rather severe escalation all of a sudden (hide spoiler)].
i thought "Cold Fire" was excellent of describing the story line and showing the character's personality. The only thing that kind of annoyed me was how much suspense or silence for a period of time.Overall,the book was fantastic.
Daja is the light of my life ok
(view spoiler)[Jory's endangerment at the end of the book is thrown in simply to make a connection, however tenuous, between the student storyline and the arsonist storyline.
(view spoiler)[Additionally, Frostpine's little story with the fake gold coins seems included just to give him something to do for the whole book as well.
(hide spoiler)]The long and short of it is that it's an interesting city Daja and Frostpine find themselves in, but the plot itself is weakly constructed.
An arson is one the loose, and Daja's fire magic is ideal for saving people caught in buildings, for discerning how the fire got started, and who did it.Full ReviewIn Kugisko, people ride sleighs and skate to get around the port of the city's islands.
As befitting a world and plot of oxymorons, Tamora Pierce dubbed this novel "Cold Fire."Early in the winter, Daja and her mentor, Frostpine, take residence with the family of one of Frostpine's old friends.
Daja seeks to help by crafting fire-resistant gloves for a firefighting friend, and sometimes by getting directly involved herself.My library doesn't have the first three of The Magic Circle series, including Daja's Book, so this was my first look at Daja's character.
This whole series is a lot darker and grittier than the Magic Circle series, but this book takes the cake so far.
It's unusual in fiction, much less J/YA fiction, to be given a character you build trust in only to find that they're monstrous.
Pierce doesn't stop there, though - the villain in this book offers point-of-view reflection, and the reader is given full access to his emotions and motivations.
Even as an adult reader, I feel weirdly betrayed and unsettled by this; it really is masterful.
There are also some great moments in the book - Daja is one of my favorites, and Frostpine is overall amazing.
Another wonderful installment in Emelan from Tamora Pierce.
It's difficult to say much about this book without going into full spoiler territory, but here she created a villain that made my skin absolutely crawl (this is a compliment!
Good villaining!), a world that was thriving with life and coming off the page, wonderful new characters, and managed to keep what is part of the formula of these books ("one of the original kids finds a new person with ambient magic and must train them") feeling entirely fresh.
It wasn't bad by any stretch, just didn't feel as good as the rest of the book!
Great job, once more, to Tamora Pierce.
This was my favorite of The Circle Opens series, but it broke out of the mold of the other books a bit.
Unlike the others, Daja wasn’t the direct teacher of the girls she discovers, but still practices meditation with them.
It was interesting to see how Daja interacted with Bennat and how she had to adapt and decide how she would act in the future.
Those looking for a fun magical journey, but it’ll make much more sense if you read The Circle of Magic series first.See all my reviews and more at www.ReadingToDistraction.com or @Read2Distract
Another excellent novel by Tamora Pierce!Daja and Frostpine have been travelling around so that Daja can learn from other forges.
While in the far north, Daja discovers twins with magic.
One has cooking magic while the other has carpentry magic.Though it was a good novel, I didn't like this one as much as I did the first two in the series.
The twins kind of blended together and after reading this novel, I have no clue which twin is which.
Daja's relationship with Ben was also kind of weird.
All of the facts were there, yet she couldn't see the obvious.My favorite part had to be Frostpine sitting on the fire and freaking everyone out.
Interesting culture/world building and concepts, the 'big bad' was very multi-dimensional, especially for a children's book, and super realistic and creepy. The formulaic plot style grates on me by this third book, and sometimes things are just downright repetitive almost down to the exact phrase or sentence appearing copy-pasted. There was too much about the roadways and skating as opposed to actually interesting plot points and character building. Maybe it was just Daja's character I wasn't interested in, but yeah not as about this one comparatively. Still a strong liberal-leaning fantasy series and very original.
I really liked the worldbuilding of the city (ice-skating on the frozen canals!) and the moral complexity of the story. And I love Daja, in general. I did not like the general skeeviness of Ben's relationship with Daja and the way that that wasn't really dealt with (not sure if that counts as a spoiler, but hiding anyway). I also wanted more development of the twins as characters––it felt like that part of the plot was kind of perfunctory, just thrown in because the framing of the series required Daja to have a student.
I love how dark The Circle Opens is compared to Circle of Magic, and this one has been the best so far. Daja is still my favourite narrator, and I like the worldbuilding Pierce put into the city of Kugisko. It's well thought out and very different from anything we've seen so far in either of Pierce's worlds.
This was a slight change of pace from the previous two mage/student books by Pierce. I liked the deviation, and the villain was really twisted in this one, which was a new change, too. I am looking forward to seeing if all the students stay with their teachers in the later books in the series.
Daja does a lot of growing up and becoming much more open to people in this book. It's not hard to spot the bad guy early on, but this is still a very good mystery. Pretty heavy badness for YA.
The "Circle" books are like the Minor Arcana.
That's fantastic for a kids' book because it's something they can practice themselves.
As far as kids' books...
With this particular quartet Pierce also does a great job of showing the culture in different regions.
I like how straightforward her presentation of these different places is, because it really avoids exoticism in favor of showing how people can live in different parts of a (made-up) world.
I am not at all picky about writing style (if it falls on the simple side, that is) and despite the target age group all the essentials are here - the story and the concepts.
Daja’s love of fire is also seriously challenged by the ways in which the destruction of life and property can come about.
Add to this great storyline the beautiful Namornese setting, and this is a great story that is impossible to put down.
Cold Fire is one of the darker stories of Pierce’s collection.
Yes, the entire Circle Opens Quartet is a little darker and investigates a seedier side of life, but I find that the betrayal, death and arson of this novel far more intoxicatingly terrifying.
Well, cooking is, but the smell of wood and carpentry is a great way in which to remind me of my childhood…
Hello, Daja’s book!
Some things that stood out to me about this one.1) Pierce is really great at bringing attention to light/white skin.
That problem doesn’t exist here—Pierce indiscriminately references skin color, so we clearly see our dark- and light-skinned characters, no default assumed.
It’s refreshing!2) I am again reminded of how dark (yet sanitized?) these books manage to be.
The villain of this one is truly terrifying.3) Sandry’s book really pales in comparison to Briar’s and Daja’s.
I’m wondering if Tris’s will top the rest.
Like Frostpine, I’m looking forward to a warmer locale.
