https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47970.Jumper
It is fantastic.David Rice is one of the rare cases where the older writer has created a teenaged character who actually acts like a teenager; while Davy is smarter than your average teen, but he still makes mistakes, as anyone entering the "real" world on their own for the first time does.
The book is just so much smarter than the film, and it's hard to really explain; people who don't read a lot of sci-fi may not enjoy it, but for a fan of the genre this book comes as a breath of fresh air.
How could this book even compete?And yet as complicated and well-thought-out as Hard Magic is, even going so far as to explain what happens when you teleport into a bug (it melds with your skin and really hurts), Jumper was an excellent story in its simplicity.
Jumper explains some of the nuances of the powers of teleportation, but not nearly as in-depth as Correia (I know, even with all the other powers it deals with).Davy learns about his powers through some pretty brutal circumstances.
Jumper is much better than the movie and works well because of its simplicity.
I've wanted to read this ever since I watched the Jumper movie.
Teleportation movies and books are always fun.
The biggest surprise is that this book was nothing like the movie.
This was a surprisingly dark sci-fi that spent more time pondering moral dilemmas and exploring Davey's emotional reaction to the various mishaps that befell him than it did on action sequences.
The action and the pace did pick up a bit towards the end.
Davey was a tortured soul with a bit of bitterness about him, but for all his faults he was mostly likable.
Overall this was an enjoyable sci-fi read worth a 4 star rating.
It was a book written for someone my age, that wasn't afraid to treat me like an adult, showing such things as homosexual child rape, child abuse, alcoholism, graphic terrorist attacks, and it even used the dreaded F word like FOUR WHOLE TIMES!!!
However, where Davy's desperate circumstances and real need are deeply delved into in the book, and he is forced to steal the money just to survive, promising to himself one day to pay it back, something he actually, eventually does, the one in the movie uses it to live like a king and abuse his powers.
Executive Summary: A cool concept that is uneven in its execution. This is one that really needs a half star rating as it's more 3.5 than 3, but not good enough to get a 4.Audio book: Macleod Andrews is a pretty good narrator. He does some voices and accents. This is a good way to do the book, but not a must listen. Full Review I watched the movie and liked the concept, but little else. As a result I picked up the audiobook when it was a daily deal on Audible.The book is definitely better, but i
I watched the movie and liked the concept, but little else.
As a result I picked up the audiobook when it was a daily deal on Audible.The book is definitely better, but it's pretty uneven.
The start was a bit dark for my liking.
The book alternates between fun coming of age/romance and darker issues of both Davy's past/family issues and the larger implications of his abilities in the world.I will likely continue on with the series, but I'm not in a rush to do so.
Davy Rice has a special gift: the ability to transport himself to any spot he wants, which he discovers when being beaten by his abusive father or about to be raped by a long-haul trucker.
He flees his small town, moving to NY, where he settles down after jumping into a bank and taking almost $1 million.
But, disaster strikes and Davy begins to use his gift to find the culprit, drawing the unwanted attention of the NSA and NY Police Department.
Improbable, of course, but Davy is a moral, sensitive protagonist, dealing with complex issues.
Jumper is a tale of David Rice, who realizes his special ability to "jump" from one place to another, and his trials of life.
As the story progresses, more conflicts arise, from a relationship to advoiding the grasp of the government, and then it all brings about changes to David, with more clarity on the limits of his jumping abilities, and emotional/mental progress he doesnt realize is there.
It's a touching and gripping story that remains to be seen as a 17 year old boy's life, only with a special ability.
Then he runs away, and uses his power for the second time to escape a bunch of would-be rapist truck drivers.Here and a couple of other places are where the author gets a bit cliched - yokel lowlife truck-drivers that seem to have walked off the set of Deliverance, there is some soapboxing about freedom and government abuse of authority when Davy winds up crossing the NSA, and they find out about his powers, and a few ruminations on how terrible it is to be poor and/or homeless as callous rich people walk past you.
Well, this is a rare situation where the movie was better than the book.
In fact, the writers of the script decided the book was too dull and changed the plot about 75%.
The book is pretty dull.
the main character, who I could not help but visualize as a wimpy darth vader, basically sat around crying the whole time while his way too old hot girlfriend held him and then had sex with him he stopped.
It had a lot of promise (as demonstrated by the movie) but it just bogged down the personality of the main character who jumped around trying to work out his dysfunctional childhood.
first read in early 90sI love Love LOVE this book!
I first read it when it FIRST came out in 1992 and I've read it at least 4-5 times since then.So, when they announced there'd be a movie, I was exstatic!
Then they started publicizing changes.
Changes?
It's PERFECT just the way it is.
Regardless, I went to see it the premier weekend, on Feb 16, 2008.
Grrrr I left steamed!
Maybe next year?re-read 10/27/2011re-read 3/9/2013 (now I have it with Reflex & "Shade" as e-book Jumpersre-read 4/15/2015
I call it science fiction though the jumping is probably fantasy, but the book is treated like SF.
The original book, not the novelisation for the movie, was heart-wrenching, funny, fast-paced, poignant, and so very real in all the good ways, as the teen protagonist discovers he can teleport from place to place, at first to escape his abusive dad.
and discovers that there are consequences--from both sides.I'm sorry that the movie appears to have removed all the heart from it, leaving just the violence, without much motivation, judging from the novelization that appeared afterward.
First half: 4 stars.Second half: 2 stars.I am behind on my reviews again:-/
So that starts off the rollar coaster of events which are all related to Davy's jumping ability, whether it be falling in love with an older woman, fighting terrorists, or dealing with the government.I saw part of the movie for this book and thought that the action scenes were really good.
The only thing I did not like about the main character was that in the middle portion of the book he seemed to be crying almost every other page.
Although, this wasn't very noticeable and only irked me slightly.Another thing I found rather lazy of the author is that he seemed to be using Davy's "jumping" to the extreme.
This is the best YA Sci-Fi book I've read in a long time.
If were written today, and all the fan girls where to jump on board, it would have a rating close to 5 stars.
However since it was written in the 90s and mainly read by adults now, it does not get the fan girl love.
Anyway, the story is very well written, and deals with terrorism as we saw it back in the 90s, and from all sides.
Some of the views expresses in this book would be considered sacrilege in todays ultra militaristic United States, and cause one to really become aware of how far our country has gone.
Great book and a hundred times better than the lame movie.
The dialogue is clunky, the plot is thin, and the characters are sketches more than anything.The film based on this book was better, despite its flaws.
(Namely the studio-dictated narration at the beginning explaining things to the dumb people in the audience.) They took the basic elements of this book and gave them a high-quality shine while amping up both the stakes and the action.The main character in the movie is more of an anti-hero, whereas here he's more of a whiny YA mouthpiece.
When he has the government agents go on about how not all Muslims are terrorists, explaining the difference between Sunni and Shi'ite beliefs, it was clunky exposition.
So the realization just came to my mind recently that it’s not the way how the author creates a story nor just how an author fills a story with exploding twists and turns that would make a reader like a book to the extent of dreaming over it, but it is how the author really pushes and masters himself harder at becoming a proficient story-teller.Teleportation is commonly considered by some people to be at the paranormal line since they say that it’s one of the abilities of extra sensory perception that theoretically work of neurons.
I remembered the "inciting incident" that causes the main character, David Rice, to learn about his ability to teleport.
(I also erroneously remembered a scene that isn't in the book, and now I want to know where I read that scene, because I enjoyed it.)It's a very enjoyable book, and a quick, satisfying read.
It felt like he didn't have to work hard enough for it.As I said, though, this did not detract from my enjoyment of the book, and I fully intend to get the others in the series and read them, as well.
I also found his character to be written more like a forty year old man than a teenager; interested in finding a decent high tea and wearing linen suits.
His girlfriend Millie was particularly annoying and although she is meant to be a collage student and only a few years older, she reads more like his mother than his lover, always quick with the voice of reason.
I think the author although writing a Young Adult book had trouble finding the voice of a YA and both characters read older to me.
By the title, cover art, and description Jumper has all the markings of a YA novel, but after David almost gets raped, his alcoholic father beats him, his mom is blown to bits on a tarmac, and the word fuck appears over and over, you start to think it may not be appropriate for little Suzy.I really enjoyed the novel.
The first half covers Davy's discovery of his jumping ability, his trying to figure out how to survive on his own, his interaction with kids his age, and his falling in love.
My dad and sister thought I was crazy since the movie was so mediocre, but I really wanted to see what the story was REALLY supposed to say.
Boy was I surprised.This book is NOTHING Like the movie!
If you liked the movie, don't read this book it will probably disappoint you.
If you didn't like the movie so much, give this book a shot.
The book deals with the more emotional and "human" aspects of Davy than the supernatural "jumping" aspect of his personality.
I really liked this book and am going to read the sequel now.
My first knowledge of this book came from the movie.
And after watching the movie I didn't really have any intention of reading the book.
But over the years I've seen it pop up again and again on peoples list of to-read sci-fi.
I thought it had come out a couple years before the movie.
The start of the book almost put me off.
Thankfully it got better to the point that I would have liked more.
The differences from the movie are many and the book is a lot better.
Primero me vi la película, hace años, y llevaba tiempo esperando saber qué tal era la novela. No se parecen en nada, salvo la habilidad de "saltar" del protagonista. Recuerda a una novela de ciencia ficción clásica, más centrada en qué puede hacer el prota más que en la historia. *se pone monóculo* No está mal. *se quita el monóculo*
A really terrific book...until it turned into another one entirely. Review to come.
This was so different from the movie, SO different. I may have to read it again sometimes.
He’s a little too urbane for his age and experience — he quickly transforms from high school dropout to fine-dining connoisseur, and I’ve never met a teenager as well-read as Davy — but other than that he acts like a normal kid.
This, plus the lack of cell phones and Internet, will make Jumper feel a little dated to teen readers, but to me it just felt nostalgic since I was around Davy’s age at the time when the story takes place.
It tells the story of 17-year old Davy, who suffers abuse at the hands of his father and runs away from home, but also grapples with an extraordinary ability to jump from one location to another almost instantaneously.
He suffers some hard realities after running away from home, but as he comes to terms with his ability, he starts taking liberties with it that allow him to access parts of the world and life that would never otherwise be possible for him in his former life.
There were a couple of intense, cringe-inducing scenes early on, I guess the point was to show what state of mind Davey had to be in to first experience a "jump".(view spoiler)[The "I'm a virgin" scene was so endlessly ridiculous that I was tempted to stop listening (audiobook) right there.
It never has been, nor will be a bad thing to be a virgin.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[I found the circumstances of the mother's death to be less realistic than this kid having a superpower.
(hide spoiler)]Some of Davey's reactions to even little things are extremely annoying, maybe this overacting/underacting is why they got Hayden Christensen to play the part.
(What a disappointment that was!)The beauty of this book isn't the teleportation, although the author has a lot of fun with that, finding new and interesting ways to explore possibilities.
Davy is a human being who experiences severe trauma and can't escape the pain no matter how far away he "jumps." Millie is a woman with her own character arc, she isn't a sidekick or a trophy to be won, but another human being with needs and motivations separate from Davy.
Even the limo and taxi drivers have an inner life that shows no matter how briefly they live on the page.I have read most of Steven Gould's books, and they're all incredible, but this will always be my favorite.
I had heard that this book is better than the movie, but after seeing the movie--which was awful!--I just couldn't bring myself to read this.
(I've seen at least four different covers for this book and all of them suck.) However, I finally did read this book and it turns out that it's actually quite good!
The main character is a seventeen-year-old who discovers he can teleport.
He's certainly not going home to his father and his mother left home years ago never to be heard from again.
This is a good, fun read with a hint of depth.
