https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176327.The_Fairy_Tale_Detectives
This was a playful and fun book, with a few flaws.Sabrina and Daphne's parents disapear one day out of the blue, and the police can't find them.
It is the Grimm's family job to keep these fairy tale creatures in line, which is a big job.One thing that really bugged me was that the story is told through Sabrina's pov, and she spends the first 100 pages doubting everything and being a brat.
The most glaring one is that the Grimm's, generations ago, bonded the fairy tale creatures to the one town, but the catch was that they bonded themselves there too.
Needing something a little shorter to fit into my reading schedule, I turned to this series debut by Michael Buckley, which takes readers behind the scenes and into the stories of the Brothers Grimm.
Buckley uses some strong fairytale references, sure to entertain the young adult or teen reader, surely the target audience for this book.Sometimes you need a reading break, but are not fully prepared to turn to the newspaper funny pages.
It served its purpose for me and I will try to use the age-appropriate filter here, seeing Neo return to these books in a few years when he is a strong individual reader and criticising my review for being off the mark.Kudos, Mr. Buckley, for such a wonderful debut piece.
“That's why crazy people are so dangerous. You think they're nice until they're chaining you up in the garage.”   You can find this review and all of my other reviews at Novel Descent Thanks for the support!How did I miss this book in life?!?!?! Why did I never even hear about it! Thankfully I have remedied this situation and read the book! This is what I expect in a great middle-grade novel. This book was well-written, had wonderful characters, great adventure, lots of humor and just an overa
This book was well-written, had wonderful characters, great adventure, lots of humor and just an overall good time.
I knew this book was going to be made just for me.I had no real expectations with this books, since I had never heard of, so it was a very pleasant surprise to read something so great.
I don't think there were any characters that I didn't like and the kids weren't annoying or whiny, which is a plus.
Another huge plus for me with this book is that I LOVE that they included Puck in this story, for those who are familiar with that character I'm sure it will bring a smile to your face as well.
Michael Buckley begins this children's series with a compelling premise: The stories of the brothers Grimm and other fairy tale originators (Hans Christian Andersen, etc.) are all true.
After the halfway point, when the author finally lets Sabrina be an effective character instead of her previous killjoy self, the story picks up.
This creates scenes that seem incongruously gory, some characters even seeming vicious, especially when, at other points, Buckley seems to be at pains to avoid writing about violence (particularly with the circumstances of the girls' being orphaned).
Some boy wants to drown her.While for children, this book will be enjoyed by adults.
It's true, as some of the reviews have pointed out, that Buckley seems to use a very loose form of fairy tales (and is inspired perhaps by Jasper Fforde and Into the Woods), but the book is amusing and easily accesible by both adults and children.What I like best, however, is Buckley's use of two girls as the "chosen" ones.
Too often the chosen one is a boy, and it is nice to see a book where it is two sisters who work together and love each her.
“The night is young, and by the grace of magic, so are we.” 2 stars, even 2.5 stars at best.Unfortunately this didn't make me feel as young as I should be. In fact, I felt bored and felt like reading this was a bit of a chore, which is sad. Again it might have something to do with reading my previous book at the same time so I pretty much could say, out of the both of them--this one was the lesser. :/Daphne and several characters were the saving graces for me, whereas Sabrina merely dominated t
“The night is young, and by the grace of magic, so are we.”
In fact, I felt bored and felt like reading this was a bit of a chore, which is sad.
:/Daphne and several characters were the saving graces for me, whereas Sabrina merely dominated the narrative and killed a far bit of the enjoyment for me.
But both sisters were extreme opposites--either one is too engrossed with everything (Daphne <3) or they're so darn septic that they ruin the fun for others (this was Sabrina for me).Other than that the fairytale aspect was really interesting, especially the twist at the end made me smile and laugh a bit.
Sisters Sabrina and Daphne make for likeable, fun protagonists.
I liked the inside jokes of the fairy tale characters that are very familiar to those who enjoy the subject.
It's interesting that I had also read the first graphic novel in the Fables series: Fables, Vol. 1: Legends in Exile, so I saw some of the same characters with storylines that overlapped in interesting ways.
While this is a kids series, I think it has enough nuances that an older reader can enjoy it.
I'm definitely interested enough to keep going, but this isn't a series I have to read back to back.
Of course that may be a subjective view...do you consider say, psychopaths and such as poor choices for parents?????Oh well.Now the girls, oh did I tell you they were sisters, or their family name?
The only snag is that the girls parents (before they disappeared of course) had told them their grandparents were dead...Hummm....Well anyway nice book, good story, lots of humor concerning characters you'll recognize.
Enjoy.Now...by the way, I just thought I "mention" that this book was published in 2005.
It's about a family named Grimm whose members have to solve mysteries and crimes concerning fairytale creatures that the rest of humanity don't see.
However, the dialogue was a little too cutesy for my taste and I didn't feel the Everafters (Buckley's lingo for "fairy tale" characters) were developed and utilized to their full potential.
I think it would have given the one-note "fairy tale" characters more diversity and made the entire book exponentially more interesting.Admittedly, though, I must give the author props for not pandering to grown-ups.
This is not outstanding writing, and I think when my sister (who loves "The Sisters Grimm") grows up she will realize it...but, as a kid, I think she had every right to enjoy the book.
I mean, even if I don't usually read MG, how do you say no to your super-excited 8 year old telling you she's found a fantastic new book?
OBVIOUSLY you read it.
It was thrilling and exciting and had just the right fright level, and she consumed it about as fast as she's ever read anything.
We immediately sought out Book 2 for her.As for me, I enjoyed it--there were twists I didn't see coming, and a couple I did, and a lovely level of humor throughout.
Give it to your 8 year old, and prepare for a possible buddy read.
Of course that may be a subjective view...do you consider say, psychopaths and such as poor choices for parents?????Oh well.Now the girls, oh did I tell you they were sisters, or their family name?
The only snag is that the girls parents (before they disappeared of course) had told them their grandparents were dead...Hummm....Well anyway nice book, good story, lots of humor concerning characters you'll recognize.
Enjoy.Now...by the way, I just thought I "mention" that this book was published in 2005.
It's about a family named Grimm whose members have to solve mysteries and crimes concerning fairytale creatures that the rest of humanity don't see.
This is a light-hearted and faced-paced book. It's slightly snarky humor and slap-stick action sequences are designed to appeal to younger readers. For fans of fairy tales and fairy tale retellings, the definition of fairy tales used here is annoyingly broad--included are characters from L. Frank Baum, Lewis Carroll, and Rudyard Kipling. Also, the author does little with these characters to make them his own. The book's many cliches may be new to the target audience, but will taste stale to many adults.
I LOVED THIS!!!I knew this was going to include fairytale characters, but this was like a Once Upon a Time for middle grade readers.
There is a town seemingly in the middle of nowhere where these fairytale creatures are stuck.
It is up to the Grimm family to keep everyone in line and to solve the mysteries around town.
Gilda the Good Witch is pretty neutral and the Grimm family is full of spunk.
The fun part is solving the mystery but at times I was so caught up in the action, I forgot to consider the clues staring me right in the face.
Sabrina can’t believe that her grandmother thinks fairy tales are real.
She really can’t believe that fairy tale characters live right in Ferryport.
She really, really, really can’t believe that a local farm house didn’t blow up and was really stepped on by a giant.
But then Mayor Charming and Glinda the Good Witch are involved in a cover-up and a giant kidnaps Granny Grimm!
The Grimm sisters know they need to help and enlist the help of Shakespeare’s Puck, Jack the Giant Killer, and the Magic Mirror.
But even then, can they figure out how to save Granny Grimm?
לאחר שההורים שלהם נעלמים האחיות גרים עוברות להתגורר אצל סבתן שמגלה להן שהן צאצאיות של האחים גרים והתפקיד שלהן הוא להגן מפני דמויות מהאגדות.בתור ספר נוער הספר נחמד ועם כמה מהפכים לא צפויים.
As for her younger sister Daphne, she inquires about the meaning of words and so readers learn new words.From this point onward, the story diverges from The Unfortunate Events series, in that it is about a fairy tale community.
For that reason, I also felt upset about some of the evil characters from fairy tales that Buckley chose to convert.I wish I could recommend The Fairy Tale Detectives.
And I dislike just as much having my favorite fairy tale characters being portrayed as differently than in the original stories.
Furthermore, I wouldn't want this book to be the first introduction one has to fairy tale characters.
I enjoyed the dark silhouettes of children and fairy tale characters that appear at the beginning of each chapter.
What is interesting about this series is the way in which the fairy tale characters from the stories of Grimm, Hans Christian Anderson, the Wizard of Oz, Alice in Wonderland, and Shakespeare's Midsummer Night's Dream all interact in the town of Ferryport Landing.
This series will certainly appeal to children who enjoy fairy tales, and mysteries as well as a good amount of adventure.
Love the originality to collect princes/princesses, heroes, fairies, giants and magicians from original works in the same place and make them LIVE. It changes and reinterprets these classical characters in a smart and interesting ways.
Appealing notion, but the writing and characterization were not strong enough to hold my interest. Maybe if I were ten... Although even then I'm not sure, because none of the characters really appealed to me. The orphaned kids discovering special magical heritage has been done a lot better.
The sister Sabrina and Daphne go through many foster homes, but finnally end up in the house of their grandma grimm. Everything is going just fine for the family other than sabrina thinking grandma Grimm is Crazy, but then she starts to beleive when a giant carries away their grandma. Read the sisters Grimm to find out how they get their grandma back.
Now I'm not calling it a literary masterpiece, but for 9 and 10 year old girls, this is got to be one of the best series out there.Despite the fact that most of this series has to do with wild, crazy, fairy tale happenings, the two main characters (Sabrina and Daphne) are very solidly grounded in the real world; they have real dreams and fears that any young reader will be able to understand and identify with.
Dealing with issues of abandonment, siblings, and family, Sabrina and Daphne navigate the rough waters of learning who you are while running from giants.The fairy tale aspect of the story was handled very well.
Orphans Sabrina (11 year old) and Daphne (7 year old) go to live with their grandmother (who they thought was dead) in the town of Ferryport Landing.
But, during the mystery, they learn something about their parents too - who the girls thought had abandoned them.The book is narrated from Sabrina's point of view.
Everyone, who reads this book, will love the character of Daphne - her willingness to believe, the cute kindness and the way she deals with people.
I think it will be more fun.The author must have given a lot of thought, before coming out with this book.
For the last 200 years, they've been cleaning up magical problems in the town of Ferryport Landing, a town filled with characters from fairy tales and children's literature.
The girls have to figure out whether this woman is really their grandma, and if she is why did their parents keep her a secret?
All while figuring out what to do about a giant that's dropped into town from a bean stalk.I thought this was a solid middle grade book that lots of kids will enjoy, especially those who like the TV show Once Upon a Time.

Last Cristmas I recived the Sisters grimm series as my present from my uncle and his girlfriend. After reading the back, I put them on my bookshelf. About a year later I uncoved them, having nothing else to read, I curled up and started the first book. 3 days later, I hade finised the series. Now I love them! They are my all-time favorite books, and I am recomending them to everyone! So if you are looking for books to read, these are your books!
This book was better than I was expecting. It was just a normal day and I was out of books to read, so, after rumaging through my parents' bookshelves, I came across this book. I picked it up and thought "Just another children's book that will have no meaning, I guess I'll give it a try." As soon as I start reading I'm sucked into this children's book that is full of fantasy and connections to the classic fairy tales. This is a quick and satisfactory read.
Totally hilarious! Hopefully i can read Book 2 soon! :)
There were still some great pieces of wit (I loved the bit where the kids, told they can go to the ball but that the magic will run out at nine o'clock, complain bitterly that it's not fair -- Cinderella got until midnight -- and are informed that this was because Cinderella was older than them), but I didn't get the same sense of energy: what had been a very special tale had become something more like standard fare.I found it irking, too, that a community supposedly made up of traditional fairytale characters -- Snow White, Prince Charming, the Mirror, and so on -- later started to feature characters from nursery rhymes, Alice in Wonderland, the Arthurian cycle and more.
"How did you know that we could get him to do whatever we want if we pretend he's in charge?" Sabrina asked Daphne."It's what I do with you," the little girl replied.
"You two are exactly the same." Daphne is my fave, okay?I feel like I read this at the wrong time in life, and it makes me sad.
Rather than Storybrooke, we have Ferryport Landing, a town where characters from fiction are intermingled with ordinary mortals, but the Everafters cannot leave.
But are Sabrina and Daphne Grimm aware of this?
I love the way the author put together Ferryport Landing.
I didn't like Sabrina all that much.
3.5 starsThis was a cute book intended for middle graders.
Two orphaned sisters are sent to live with their grandmother.
They become even more suspicious because the house where their grandmother lives is quite peculiar.
I enjoyed listening to this book.
If you like the graphic novel series Fables or watched "fractured fairy tales" when you were a kid (or Once Upon a Time now), you might want to check it out.
