https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121706.Reflections_on_the_Psalms
Glorious, but awful in parts. Finished it again in 2016, and it is still the same. Lewis has an uncanny ability to edify me and appall me simultaneously.
Right away, he takes on the difficult, hard-to-stomach psalms, the ones about such things as dashing the Babylonian babies against the stones.
And this quote:"What we see when we think we are looking into the depths of Scripture may sometimes be only the reflection of our own silly faces."4.
Lewis' discussion of Melchizedek, who I think is the most mysterious figure in the Bible.
If you're not familiar with Melchizedek, I urge you to read everything about him in the Bible.
If your curiosity is piqued, find a copy of "Reflections on the Psalms" and read Chapter 12, "Second Meanings in the Psalms." I think it will be time well-spent.
Lewis apologetic works (Mere Christianity, Miracles) are attempts to rationalize his beliefs to himself and to any who will listen - they are not the authority on Christian theology and scholarship that they are made out to be (Lewis usually outlines his shortcomings in the introductions to his books).So those who think of Lewis as just an evangelist or a propagandist avoid his best (and lesser known) work.'Reflections on the Psalms' finds Lewis in the role he is best suited for, as a critic of great literature.I kind of dreaded the Psalms until I read this book.
An English Professor's Thoughts on the Psalms20 February 2014 I would have to say that the thing that I appreciated the most about this book was that Lewis opened it by saying that he was not writing this book as a theologian, since by his own admission he is not a theologian, but rather that he is writing this book as a normal person, and even in saying that he is suggesting that he is not the colossus of English literature that he actually is. The second point is that in writing he actually wr
An English Professor's Thoughts on the Psalms20 February 2014	I would have to say that the thing that I appreciated the most about this book was that Lewis opened it by saying that he was not writing this book as a theologian, since by his own admission he is not a theologian, but rather that he is writing this book as a normal person, and even in saying that he is suggesting that he is not the colossus of English literature that he actually is.
Now Lewis is quite right when he considers that the Jewish mind saw themselves as an aggrieved victim wanting justice from a civil court while the Christian mind sees themselves as the guilty perpetrator sitting in the dock being condemned for their crimes.
5% Done UPDATEI'm 5% done with Reflections on the Psalms: I never ever stopped to think before about the difference between judges in Old Testament times versus judges in our very modern times.
They probably are a good way to pray, but one couldn't have found a more off-putting way to make me think of them as it was often very difficult to enter into the psalmists' particular feelings of the moment.30% Done UPDATEListening to Lewis's thoughts on expressing the sheer joy of the Lord were directly responsible for one of the most joyful early morning walks I've had in some time.
The book helps the reader be a better Christian by better knowing God through the Psalms.Here's a sample where Lewis discusses the different interpretations of why certain Pagan myths are similar to the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ:And what are we to say of those gods in various Pagan mythologies who are killed and rise again and who thereby renew or transform the life of their worshippers [sic] or of nature?
To his credit, Lewis introduces the book by stating that he is no scholar, no Hebraist, (he also says no higher critic, but that I take as a technicality since he certainly employs higher-critical reasoning throughout), but rather one unlearned writing for the unlearned.
The main flaw in Lewis's approach is that he views Old Testament Judaism and New Testament Christianity as two completely separate, radically different religions.
Lewis gets so entangled in trying to solve difficulties that he mostly misses a genuine Christian reading of the Psalms.
Here is proof positive that no beloved Christian author's entire canon should be accepted without study of its individual parts.

The thing I love most about this little book is the speculative nature of it, which Lewis owns from the first sentence: "This is not a work of scholarship." He's conjecturing based on his knowledge of ancient cultures and the context of the whole Bible.
Do the psalmists ever sin with their words (cursing their enemies, etc) and if so, what use are such writings to the Christian (i.e. why does God want us to read them?).Lewis compares and contrasts often: other ancient works of similar literary genre to the psalms, the ancient Jewish perspective to the Christian perspective.
I took too long reading this, so felt a little disjointed at times! I really enjoyed Lewis' rambling thoughts and his humor. I have many quotes to think on. This wasn't my favorite title of his, yet I think that has something to do with how I read it. It's a shorter book and I think should be read in one or a few readings straight through to get the full gist of what he's saying.
His approach to the psalms and the scriptures as a whole allows for a much greater presence of humanity with all its proneness to errors, ignorance, and even sin.
Thus, Lewis condemns the cursing psalms while still finding that God wanted them in the canon.
I also won't go into Lewis's explanation of why the psalms demand praise from us, except to say that it's a classic and a must-read.
Full of great insights, of course, but nothing hit me as being particularly awe-inspiring. I should stop reading Lewis books as audiobooks, I don't get as much out of them. One day I'll need to go back and review this.
Though, that is exactly what happened to me with Psalms after I read the book.
Jewish poets were really something I must admit, and while reading the book it made me want to read the psalms more than the book.
This book actually encourages you to cope with the hard language and the obvious emotions going on in the verses.
It specially made me at least try to understand the parts most Christians would call inappropriate in today’s cultural terms.
Buy the book.
It's something worth having on the shelf simply to be able to grab it when one does not understand what the Psalmist is trying to say.
A very good approach, I think.
Lewis' comments on allegory and prefiguration were also welcome, as modern critical theory seems to deny the ability of seeing things on multiple levels at once.
More is required to have a full understanding the work (I'm sure Lewis would agree to this), as Lewis notes that he is only a layman.
Yet with any digging comes further understanding, and Lewis is always good at directing towards different things to study and look at (even if we don't agree with him).
As men who claimed to be the divine offspring of the gods themselves, they made loud claims about the terrors and horrors they would inflict upon those who harmed them.The fact that David DOES NOT DO THIS shows a tremendous faith and humility in Israel's King.
David quite literally places his boast in God, calling upon God as the defender of the nation to do these things, showing by example that he is refraining from doing them and is waiting upon God to act as Israel's sovereign ruler.
Yes, the imprecatory Psalms get really colorful and vivid and horrible in what they describe, but David is deliberately using the method of other nations to show that he places these matters into God's Hands.
The first chapters cause the most furrowing of the brow - Lewis' understanding of how Scripture came to be emphasizes too much the role of man in writing (and thus human error and caprice) and too little of the Holy Spirit's guidance (incidently, I think Reformed Christians sometimes make the opposite error - emphasizing the Holy Spirit to the exclusion of any human medium).
Aside from that complaint (and the problems it causes) Lewis can be wonderful:"But the most obvious fact about praise - whether of God or anything - strangely escaped me.

Sometimes fascinating; sometimes poor, not well thought out, theology; sometimes totally new ideas; but always interesting.I have decided that next year, instead of reading so much, I am going to go back through many of the works I read—especially those from Lewis and Edwards—and really dig into quotes and ideas more.
Read the book for more.- The idea of a civil vs ceremonial court for the psalmists’ righteousness was helpful.- His thoughts about why God didn’t give the Israelites a belief in eternal life yet in the psalms was brilliant.
In the introduction, Lewis makes the following statement: What must be said, however, is that the Psalms are poems, and poems intended to be sung: not doctrinal treatises, nor even sermons.
It may repel one use in order that we may be forced to use it in another way, to find the Word in it… Therefore, it comes through rather clearly that Lewis has a low view of Scripture, of the Bible, as the unmitigated Word of God as he expresses that it is a faulty human medium which God has used.
On page 132, he quotes Psalm 8:6 then comes to an erroneous conclusion: The Christian writer observes that, in the actual state of the universe, this is not strictly true.
Lewis wrote about 60 years ago but I still feel as if he is an extremely important and relevant conversation partner for evangelicals.
I also thought his chapter on praise, though very simple, to be very good.
Lewis reminds me of the beauty of simplicity and the goodness of enjoying profundity of God's simplicity.
He is a good reminder to not take yourself too seriously - I always feel convicted as being a snob when I read Lewis.
Good enough reason to keep reading him!As for his actual reflections on the Psalms, they are fairly simple (although that's not a knock!).
At times this book can be very difficult to read. Lewis, although sounding very educated, often stretches his sentences far further than they need to be and fills them with the very depths of his vocabulary. This leads to a very interrupted reading as you find yourself checking words in the dictionary and re-reading phrases until they make sense. I am not sure I would agree with every opinion in this book, but to see an alternative view on the Psalms is helpful in building a fuller picture and the chapters about second meanings within scripture are definitely worth reading.
This is typical, perhaps classic, Lewis. He takes us through several categories of Psalms and explains why many are difficult and others are laudatory. His explanations are reflective of his thinking as expressed in much of the rest of his non-fiction. It is a bit difficult to wade through as the British English syntax of 80 years ago is at great variance with that of 21st century American English. But as with all Lewis, it is worth the effort.
It’s funny that as I believer I had C.S.Lewis on such a high pedestal that I was completely unprepared to begin this book.
I was confronted with some of his opinions -with regards to the book of Psalms, that I adamantly disagree with him about.
Even though he begins by saying this book is not about apologetics, but rather it’s for the believer, I found myself having to stop and dig into what I really believed he was saying.
It was good to be challenged in my beliefs and I found the book interesting.
However, I may never view Lewis the same after this book.
I appreciated Lewis' reflections on the Psalms, but most of all, in this short work, I was able to get a better glimpse of Lewis' approach to scripture and how he understands it to be the "Word of God".
Lewis' respect and love for scripture is quite evident, he was by no means a friend of liberal theologians and yet he didn't hold a view of inerrancy that is the norm among conservative Christians in America.
In chapter 11 of "Reflections on the Psalms" Lewis wrote: [The scripture] is the work first of the Jewish and then of the Christian Church in preserving and canonizing just these books.
Good thoughts on Lewis's flawed view of imprecatory psalms.
Lewis...what a writer.
Some succulent meat but a fair amount of bone and gristle as well.
3.5/5
Here I got a lot of questions I want to work through because of the issues he raises:* "Judgment in the Psalms." I'm afraid this really knocked down total depravity as we often frame it.
It is utterly for us and I love how Lewis characterizes it.* "Connivance." See "The Cursings."* "Nature." Lewis thought long and hard about this one.
I actually like the sacramental doctrine that Lewis is putting here and I have recently been asked questions that make me wonder about the mode in which Scripture is inspired.
This is on display throughout the work as Lewis discusses his view on every topic brought about in the Psalms.
In regards to the Old Testament Lewis writes, “It seems clear that in most parts of the Old Testament there is little or no belief in the future life (page 36).” He then describes the change that came about in the New Testament.Chapter five discussed the Beauty of the Lord, and one can almost see how much more relaxed Lewis is now that he is on a pleasant topic.
