https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71297.Asterix_in_Corsica
This is one of my favourite Asterix books. It never fails to amuse, from the exploding Corsican cheese to the "corsican"/course 'e can" pun to the joke about stoning a donkey with ripe figs, this one's particularly funny. Uderzo's art is in especially fine form.
An Island Holiday13 November 2018 It’s been a while since I have written a review on an Asterix book, but that may have something to do with not getting my hands on any new Asterix books in quite a while. Then again, after piling through a heap of them I sort of found that them seem to all end up being the same – you know drinking magic potions, beating up Romans, Obelix trying to get in on some magic potion action despite the fact that he doesn’t need any (namely because he fell into the cauldr
So, thus we begin a new adventure, this one set in Sunny Corsica, a place where if you happen to be a stranger you are definitely not welcome, and like a certain small section of Gaul, the Romans have established armed camps around the coast (with some rather interesting names), but have basically not managed to penetrate the interior.
In a way the culture felt a lot more of what I would have expected to see in Sicily, though I’m not sure if the Sicilians are as big on their siestas as the Corsicans are suggested to be in this book.
نسبت به قسمتهای یک و دو و سه، کمتر جالب بود. البته ممکنه به ترجمه مربوط باشه چون ترجمه اون سه قسمت با این یکی متفاوت بود و این یکی از کیفیت چاپ کمتری هم برخوردار بود.البته اون سه قسمت رو هم در کودکی خوندم که قطعن در داوریم بیتاثیر نیست!
نسبت به قسمت‌های یک و دو و سه، کمتر جالب بود. البته ممکنه به ترجمه مربوط باشه چون ترجمه اون سه قسمت با این یکی متفاوت بود و این یکی از کیفیت چاپ کمتری هم برخوردار بود.البته اون سه قسمت رو هم در کودکی خوندم که قطعن در داوری‌م بی‌تاثیر نیست!
As usual this one also awesome. 5+ stars
Sono stato per diversi anni in Corsica in vacanza d'estate.
Purtroppo ne ho visto solo la parte costiera, con solo una puntata verso l'interno ma senza poter apprezzare appieno le sue foreste e i suoi villaggi in costa (montana).
Però Aleria l'ho vista, ho visto da vicino (da dentro un'auto per fortuna) i "maiali selvatici".Il che mi permette di gustarmi ancora di più questo volumetto, perché molte delle caratterizzazioni del popolo corso le capisco avendone "un vissuto".
Asterix in Corsica (Astérix #20), René Goscinny, Albert Uderzo
This was the first Asterix I ever read, and still one of my favorites.
As a result, most of the Roman soldiers go on special manoeuvres to avoid the punch-up...The proud Boneywasawarriorwayayix attends the Gaulish banquet and leaves the next day for Corsica with Asterix, Obelix and Dogmatix accompanying him.
Although the pirates agree to transport Boneywasawarriorwayayix, Asterix, Obelix, and Dogmatix, their real plan is to strip them of wealth and make them walk the plank halfway to Corsica.When the passengers go aboard it is too dark for the captain and the Gauls to recognise each other.
-Wild boars, chestnuts, and old people sitting on benches commenting on things happening in their environment and the notorious smell of Corsican cheese are referenced.
La migliore fra le caratterizzazioni “etniche” della serie. E non migliore perché fedele al modello, ma perché estrema e in sé coerente. I corsi immaginari di questa storia sono un personaggio in se stessi, tutti insieme. Alcune scene hanno letteralmente come “protagonisti” il loro maschilismo o la loro suscettibilità. Genio puro!
Following are the reasons why I give this 4 stars!This books shows why somebody must read these comics in the correct order.
The story opens with a feast to which past friends are invited.
This re-union includes characters from previous books such as "Asterix in Spain", "Asterix in Switzerland" "Asterix and the Chieftain's shield" "Asterix in Britain" etc.
First story to show (I think ) Gaulish children role-playing Gauls v.
Well, the jokes of the others books such as "Asterix in Britain" and "Asterix in Switzerland" are of a better standard.
Dialogue between a Corsican and a Roman who goes to search for Corsican rebels:R: Er, well I was saying, Ave, and in the name of Praetus...(awkward silence while Corsican stares angrily at the Roman)C: You spoke to my sister.R: I did?
I didn't mean to...C: (Shows a pocket knife) I don't like people talking to my sister.R: (Chilled) But...
O: (Explodes) OH, SO YOU LIKE MY SISTER, DO YOU?
HOLD ME BACK OR I'LL MURDER HIM AND THE REST OF HIS IDIOTS!(Two other Corsicans keep him while they beware the Roman to go away) Run for it.
Warum die Römer immer wieder ihre wichtigen politischen und militärischen Gefangenen in die Nähe des gallischen Dorfes bringen wird wohl noch viele Geschichtsforscher *räusper* beschäftigen.
Diesen erzählerischen Kniff verzeiht man Rene und Albert immer wieder sehr gerne, vor allem wenn sie uns wie hier - auf so eine humorvolle Reise entführen.
Ich lache heute noch Tränen, wenn ich die stoische Darstellung der Korsen sehe und deren gesellschaftliches Miteinander, welches nicht nur Asterix und Obelix völlig erstaunt.
Jedes Mal wenn ich den Band lese bekomme ich Lust diese Insel zu besuchen um raus zu finden wieviel von dieser Darstellung einer möglichen Realität entspricht.
In this book "Asterix went to Corsica but as the three heroes with Indefix arrived on the island in my eyes it was like the book title was wrong.
The right title would be "Asterix went to Crete island" in a village up to the mountains where the older men wearing head scarfs and total black clothes.
Also the vendetta and the behavior of a Corsican when his sister open the door to a Roman soldier were both very stereotype Cretan behavior of 1900-1950s.
I haven't been to Corsica so i am sure the book is full of stereotypes who gives us a lot of laugh!
In this one, Asterix and Obelix offer hospitality to a Corsican who is exiled from there and go with him to see the country and see how the Corsicans deal with the Romans.All the usual puns and long-standing jokes included.
An entertaining Asterix tale.Asterix and Obelix free a Corsican chieftain in Gaul and aid the Corsican resistance against Rome, while enjoying the island and navigating its clan feuds. The encounter with the chieftain seems purely coincidental, though.
Our Corsican Airbnb host described the Corsican people to us, then I read this stereotype-rife romp through Gaul and Corsica as fact-checking. Fun wordplay and accurate to local self-characterization.
A prisoner from Corsica with a very complex name is held in one of the Roman camps surrounding the Gauls. Asterix and co. attack the camp and meet him. They then decide to travel to Corsica to see how they deal with the Romans there. Fun read as always.
an education on the people and feel of Corsica. One of the better road trip type Asterix adventures
Asterix takes a trip south of Gaul.
Astérix en Corse - René GoscinnyRating: ★★ 1/2Review coming soon!
Nach meinen Ferien in Korsika macht mich dieser Comic beinahe nostalgisch. Einer der richtig gueten Asterixabenteuer.
Čtení Asterixe je hodně odpočinkové, raději mám ale asi formát filmu :-)
An absolutely delightful read. The name dropping just keeps getting better and better through the book. Lethargix is the hero. Made a convert of me. Will definitely go in for more.
Litt sånn jubileumsgreie i starten, overraskande nok
The usual Asterix wordplay and cowardly Romans, only this one has travel to a stage set Corsica. A fever dream of stereotypes and silly. Fun enough.
Sie sind empfindlich, die Korsen!Während der Feier des Jahrestags von Gergovia, die mit allen Freunden und Bekannten der Vorgängerbände mit einem Überfall auf ein römisches Feldlager gefeiert wird, finden die Gallier einen Gefangenen.
Besonders gelungen ist dann schließlich die Anspielung auf den großen Sohn der Insel am Ende - wie in der ganzen Reihe begeistern die dezenten, aber immer komischen Referenzen auf die moderne Geschichte.Dass bei dieser Homage an Korsika die Freunde Asterix und Obelix mehr Nebenpersonen sind, fällt einem dann gar nicht mehr auf.Goscinny war ein ganz Großer, je mehr man von ihm liest, desto klarer wird einem das.
I loved the small jokes, but also the mentioned 'death stare' and the whole Corsican clan disputes that go back for centuries.One of the greatest scenes, in my opinion, is where the clan chiefs gather for a meeting in the 'maquis'.
Each clan chief imitates the sound of a wild boar to announce himself.
When they are all present, Obelix confused the sound of a real wild boar with the call of a clan chief.
Durante le celebrazioni per la vittoria di Gergovia, Asterix e Obelix liberano da un accampamento romano un ribelle Corso, lo invitano a banchettare e decidono di accompagnarlo a casa per vedere come i Corsi riescono a resistere ai Romani.Albo difficile da comprendere per chi non conosce la Corsica e i suoi abitanti (ecco il perché delle tre stelle), ma non privo di battute e caricature da manuale.
Da notare gli invitati al banchetto iniziale: alcuni personaggi delle precedenti avventure di Asterix pronti a celebrare il 20^ albo della serie, l'ultimo pubblicato prima a puntate sulla rivista Pilote.
It's a holiday for the village and it's their tradition to attack the Roman camps in the area. All but one of those camps, though, has had everybody leave for the day. The one camp left has a prisoner they took from Corsica.The village attacks the camp and frees the prisoner, and Asterix and Obelix will escort the prisoner back to Corsica where they find the clans there arguing with each other but willing to join in another round of Roman-bashing. Literally.The story isn't as funny as the normal story in the series.
I remember being confused when I first read this book in 1985 and I'm not much the wiser now. Asterix in Corsica suffers from a lack of story, with attempts to cover this made variously by Corsican stereotype in-jokes, around four pages of four old men trying to identify other men named after types of pasta and surprise guest appearances by old friends from previous adventures at the onset. To that end it has the feel of a sitcom 'clip show' and is far from the standard we've enjoyed up until now.
