https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15796700-americanah
This isn't even a novel: it's a 477-page opinion essay with some characters thrown in.Read the blurb and you'll be told Americanah is about a pair of star-crossed lovers from Nigeria, Ifemelu and Obinze, following their adventures as immigrants in the U.S. and U.K. respectively.
There are certainly some good observations here, and Adichie is absolutely right that there ought to be more novels about how people experience race today, instead of the endless parade of books about slavery or Jim Crow that make us feel good about how far we've come rather than challenging us to do better.
For example, people’s pity when they realize you’re African, and their need to talk about their charitable donations to the continent:"Ifemelu wanted, suddenly and desperately, to be from the country of people who gave and not those who received, to be one of those who had and could therefore bask in the grace of having given, to be among those who could afford copious pity and empathy." Adichie isn't shy about bringing up controversial issues, those that others keep silent about.
Afro is not costume, for God's sake." One thing I also loved was the fact that Adichie talked about Africans deciding to return to Africa after having lived abroad.
This is when you turn to someone who understands and say, (No mind am, na Americanah), Don’t mind him, he is an Americanah.Adichie’s latest follows Ifemelu, a bright, sharp and observant girl, from her early years in 1990’s Nigeria to a life in America where, after the first rude shocks of culture change in a new world where ‘fat’ is a bad word and not merely a statement of fact, where colour is such a big issue that it can rule people’s lives, and where everything is different, she slowly and surely starts to become an Americanah.In Americanah, Ifemelu observes, and we are informed by her observations, she converses and we see her character, she remembers, and in her memories we see a rich story that begins in Lagos, journeys through the cities of America, and gains a body that is beautiful to savour.
There's a lot going on here. This book is a beautiful mess. Adichie takes on race, immigration and emigration, the politics of natural hair, interracial relationships, what it means to leave home, and what it means to return, all wrapped up in a love story. The book is, at points, indulgent, just on and on the writing goes, the writer showing off her admittedly impressive way with words. Stronger editing would have done wonders for this book. But when this book is good, it is absolutely brilliant.
Taking place in Nigeria, the United States, and England, Americanah can be viewed by many as a novel that is one of the premier looks on race over the last five years.
The second Ifemelu stepped off of the plane in the United States; however, race was everywhere-- from being denied employment even at low level jobs to the way professors talk to her at first, and even the treatment her Aunt Uju, a doctor, receives from prospective employers and the way Uju's son is treated at school.
There’s the younger and older version of Ifemelu and Obinze; Obinze’s mother, one of the coolest fictional mother I’ve ever read; Ifemelu’s Dad, who uses big vocabulary and doesn’t hesitate in blaming the government for his misfortunes; Ifemelu’s mother, devoted to religion and isn’t rational in her thinking sometimes.
Now, Americanah, I think, is my favorite.It’s a Five Star read, and although I didn’t like the book cover, I still look forward to Adichie’s next book.
i bought it the week it came out, but it’s just been hanging out on my shelves for years, being another unread hardcover i’d see and berate myself with, “good thing you paid hardcover price for that, asshole!”but then one book, one new york came around and suddenly there was a force other than myself pushing me towards it, which was just what i needed to have my AAAAAAAAHHHHH!!!!!
new yorkers who do not have this read by june will be deported to connecticut.come to my blog!
Ifemelu's early years in the United States, when she lives a hand-to-mouth existence as a college student, and her Nigerian boyfriend Obinze's harrowing months in the United Kingdom, from which he is deported as an illegal, give glimpses of how the immigrant experience unfolds in the shadow of racial discrimination.
I got a very lucid, grounded, contemporary look at race, class, and the immigrant experience in three nations--Nigeria, the United States, and the United Kingdom--built loosely around a love story.
Ifemelu, whose looks and experiences are based on the author's, fills her anonymous blog with stories about the American race and class dilemmas she observes as an outsider.
I would be reading along and thinking, oh, I’m a little bored, let’s see how far I’ve gotten….and I’d look down at the bottom of my Kindle page and see that the progress bar hadn’t moved an iota!!!
I didn’t feel this way for long.Another plus, one that I’m only enjoying in retrospect, is the way the author so clearly shows the cultural differences between Nigeria and America.
And we all know that obsessing about how our hair looks is mostly a girl thing, so is it bad press for women?The love story, though poignant, was way too drawn out.
Everyone should read this book.Adichie has really hit her stride in this one.
It is by far her best work, and you can see the progression of her writing skill in Americanah.Characters are what Adichie does best.
She speaks her mind, and her blog posts, which Adichie utilizes to speak openly about race issues in America (never getting too preachy) are hard-hitting.
At times we also get flashbacks to her university life with Obinze, and his own storyline, though in less detail than Ifemelu.
We get more than just a flurry of consciousness with Adichie; we get parsed out wisdoms and failures, all from the minds of great characters.
Having not too recently moved overseas from Africa, I can relate to this story very closely, which made it all the better a read.
She voices things that are not often voiced, the undertones (and less subtle experiences) of racism that we experience, the realisation of one's colour when one has never been conscious of colour before; the difference between people of colour born amongst colour, and those born elsewhere; the mild shocks and intense pleasures of returning home; the way at the end of it all, all we want is to be home.Adichie is a master story-teller.
I really wanted to be here for this novel, but damn: the two main characters - especially Ifemelu - were barely likeable after her move to America, all the other characters (especially the Americans and "nouveau riche" Nigerians) were very one-dimensional, the adjective use was next level and I felt like I was being lectured half the damn time.
I think Adichie's strength is in her short story writing (although I'm hoping that rereading Half of a Yellow Sun will prove me wrong).
I think, sadly, I'm falling out of love with Nigerian literature's golden girl.
“Why did people ask “What is it about?” as if a novel had to be about only one thing.” It's this opening quote that raised my intrigue by a tenfold on Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's Americanah. I've read (and reviewed in praise) her previous Nonfiction works (Dear Ijeawele & We Should All Be Feminists) so I knew Adichie to be an author with a compelling way of words, but all that paled in comparison to the character building she excels at exploring in this fictional work of art.As teenagers in
I've read (and reviewed in praise) her previous Nonfiction works (Dear Ijeawele & We Should All Be Feminists) so I knew Adichie to be an author with a compelling way of words, but all that paled in comparison to the character building she excels at exploring in this fictional work of art.As teenagers in Lagos, Ifemelu and Obinze fall in love.
“Americanah” is unique among the booming canon of immigrant literature of the last generation (including writers Junot Diaz, Jhumpa Lahiri, Gary Shteyngart, Chang-rae Lee, Dinaw Mengestu and Susan Choi).
The unflinching and refreshing honesty of an outsider's take on American politics, racial tensions, relations between men and women, between women themselves, education, immigration.
The all-encompassing empathy of an artist for all human plights, for our idiosyncrasies and failures of the imagination, for our grit and stubbornness in the face of injustice.
There was so much to feel and learn and think about in this dazzling novel that I'm having a hard time gathering my thoughts into one cohesive whole.
Una vez leí que Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie era una de las voces más potentes que teníamos en literatura en este siglo. Pensé: menuda exageración. Prejuzgué, sin ni siquiera haberla leído. Tiempo después me hice con Americanah. Me siento feliz de decir que me equivocaba. No estaban exagerando.
And ultimately, I think that as a novel of ideas, concepts, exploration of how we as humans of various backgrounds understand and confront identity and immigration and race in the modern day, and a spotlight on the Nigerian and African diaspora in the US and UK, Americanah has much to recommend the reader, and Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's intelligent observations and smart, incisive prose are by turns enlightening, heartbreaking, infuriating.
But as a novel of narrative, it failed to convince me that its characters were anything more than constructs designed to elicit specific scenarios, conversations, actions that could provide a platform for Adichie's ideas and opinions.
But when it comes to explaining those relationships later, Adichie makes out that it was a discontent Ifem felt that was all about race.
In any case, for a person who sneers at other people assuming that a book can only be about one thing, Ifem is remarkably certain about her reading of A Bend being the only right one.
I don't understand how saying this is any different than white people saying slavery is so done?Third, I found it ironic that one of the characters cries about how all the content in her book must be watered down for the non Black audience so that it's not all about race.
One of the delights of this is the way Adichie addresses and explores the complexity of relationships and the way we do things inexplicable even to ourselves; there is a great deal of warmth and I felt Adichie really cared for both of the characters she had created.
Adiche addresses gender issues with a light but sure touch and was fascinated to read that she had inspired one of Beyonce’s recent songs (Flawless).
It strikes me as I am writing this that one of Adichie’s gifts is to wrap some of the complex issues she addresses in a simple and easy to read story.
"when white people say dark they mean Greek or Italian but when black people say dark they mean Grace Jones"Weak as a love story but powerful in its social commentary.
The best parts though are Ifemelu's sometimes angry blogs about racism in U.S.A. It is not always about the dark racism that is pointed out in the book, sometimes it is nice white people trying hard not to be racist:"Kimberly was smiling the kindly smile of people who thought “culture” the unfamiliar colorful reserve of colorful people, a word that always had to be qualified with “rich.” She would not think Norway had a “rich culture.”Adichie is powerful and honest in her social observations and it is that which makes this otherwise weak love story ( it is so real that it is boring) worthwhile."Racism should never have happened and so you don’t get a cookie for reducing it.""In America, racism exists but racists are all gone.
Don’t even bother telling a white conservative about anything racist that happened to you.
Because the conservative will tell you that YOU are the real racist and your mouth will hang open in confusion.”  Ms. Adichie (who is, by the way, a stunning beauty) peppers her novel with this razor-sharp wit as she bespangles it with unique and shiny characters, mesmerizing the reader with eurhythmic dialogue and wringing the heart with a story of the protracted separation of young lovers into different cultures and the resulting moral dilemma many humans face, whether in reality, what-ifs or "I could see that happening to me."Specifically, what if the amorous relationship appeared to one lover as kaput after years of waiting, but not to the other, and the former justifiably moves on, getting married and starting a family, only to have the latter return in hopes of resuming the bond where it was last left.
I enjoyed this writer's previous novels and expected to like this one too, but I was disappointed.
There are several reasons for this but the one that had the most impact was the sense that the writer wasn't sure what type of novel this should be.
For example, the heroine seemed to be saying that, as a Nigerian immigrant, she was in some way better than these other groups, members of which which are often portrayed in a shallow, derogatory manner.
I couldn't connect with the heroine who seemed to be another incarnation of the main characters from her earlier novels, simply transported to a different setting.
I wish Adichie had written a memoir, rather than a semi-autobiographical, overly-long, meandering novel wherein we are treated to the narrator's supercilious, self-important observations about immigration, race, and class.
My overall sense is that Adichie attempts too much in this book-- she wanted to write an epic story of love, immigration, identity, belonging, race, and class.
While the overall content of the observations may be spot-on, the beating-the-dead-horse nature of the novel shows intolerance -- over time, the book becomes less and less about race and immigration, and more about Ifemulu's (and perhaps Adichie's) pure distaste for the flaws of human beings, whatever their color, class, or creed.
One down, thousands to go.The Line – “How easy it was to lie to strangers, to create with strangers the versions of our lives we imagined.”The Sinker – I loved the journey I took with the author and characters in Americanah, what I call more a story of love than one of race or color.
I will be thinking about the relationship of the main characters, Ifemelu and Obinze and hope to get a chance to talk to some friends about them.Americanah was an enjoyable audio listen narrated by Adjoa Andoh.
And yet, reading some of the reviews I was shocked to realise even this basic message went over some people’s heads.Other than race and hair, this is really a story of love of two people who feel so real you almost want to be friends with them (and I know I never say anything about characters ‘likeability’, but I did like these people despite their flaws.
What Adichie excels at is the social observations, all those everyday scenes, strips of dialogue, that reveal so much about the topics that interest her, like immigrants and class.
Ifemelu and Obinze both dreamed of leaving Nigeria, which was a common dream to get out of the country whenever possible.
Eventually with the help of family, Ifemelu was able to come to America and study.
Finally, she does get a job with the help of a friend working as a babysitter for a white liberal couple.
or "Various observations about American Blacks." She write about taboo subjects....( and part satire) ...issues about hair in the working world, Black & White lovers, and how she is regarded by her men friends.
I'm so glad I gave Americanah another chance because it is one of just a few 5 star books I've read this year.
I think this is the story of one woman's experiences, one man's experiences, steeped in class and race politics, perhaps looking at places, sections of society and people you've seen little of or never been exposed to.
And if you have, if you know people like Ifemelu or know the places she's walked, seeing it reflected in this story I think becomes such an experience, in and of itself.
Plus, because so much more of the book was from Ifemelu's point of view, I never really felt like I knew Obinze as well—which didn't serve him in the last section of the book, when he sadly began to feel like a very typical sort of character to me.
I hope she's working on a new novel, because whatever it is, I really want to read it.Americanah is the first book in my 2018 Read Like Greta project.
That feeling of straddling your good but humble african upbringing, realizing the benefits of coming to America but struggling to fit in because of issues you had no previous understanding of but are dumped in to sink or swim.
I was worried about reading this book because of pre-interviews I had seen which made it appear as though she was very "Marie Antoinette" like in her understanding of the plight of the average Nigerian as some of us "privileged" few lucky to be educated abroad are.
I loved this book.
Second, there's a part of the goodreads community-and I don’t know how numerous that part might be-that is afraid to give low ratings to books that recieve critical praise.And third, I am unconditionally and irrevocably in love with adverbs, they help to save us from unncessary long books.I don't think I'll be completely coherent in this review (ehem, more like a rant) but you've been warned.Here's the thing.
Sounded like a fun read although it was evident that this wasn't a safe romance.At the beginning I was really enjoying the book.
If you would like to join the discussion the link is below.https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...Well this book took me forever to finish....I started off really enjoying the book because it had highly developed characters.
The main character deals with wanting to fit in, but yet keep her culture strong in her life.
I really enjoyed how the first part of the book I was learning a ton about different cultures and different countries through a story format, but in the second half of the book the author made the main character unlikable and unrealistic.
The only thing that kept me going the second half of the book was the blog posts.
