https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/821056.Hinds_Feet_on_High_Places
There's something to be said for waiting for the right timing in reading a book.
I have no doubt this was the right time for me to read this book.Hinds' Feet on High Places is an allegory.
But if you're looking instead for a book that holds a great many truths, waiting to be pondered, internalized and lived out, Hinds' Feet on High Places is a good one to read.
I know I am Much-Afraid much of the time and this book left me longing to collect stones of remembrance along the way so that I will have the faith and strength to be given a new name - or live up to the one I already have.
As it turned out, I only had 10 minute chunks to read this book in and it allowed me to time to really chew on the story and how I could relate my own life and experiences to it.
This version has an afterward written by the author that explains how she came to write this book based on her own experiences and journey with God. I didn't find the afterward nearly as compelling as the story, but it was interesting to note her background.I think this is a book I will read multiple times in my life as I endeavor to develop a closer and closer relationship with God.

One of those childhood books that will forever leave a hand print upon my life.
I read this book so many times when I was small, staring at the illustrations, mulling over its words, meditating on their meaning.
Ever since I was small, I was quick to recognize analogies and entranced by Biblical allegories.
Before Narnia, there was this book, sinking it’s spiritual truths into my heart.
to draw closer to a Father and King that loves us.Reminiscent of Pilgrim’s Progress, this is a lovely and timeless book that I would recommend to everyone.
In my opinion, Hinds Feet on High Places is much better than Pilgrim's Progress.
(GASPS!) Oh, yes!
This book is much better.
While Pilgrim's Progress focuses on the Christian journey as a whole, this book focuses more on the transformation of self from sinner to saint.
The part that I really connected with (more so than the rest of this awesome book) was how Much Afraid held the hands of two black cloaked figures: Sorrow and Suffering.
At first, their hands stung and she wanted to scream and get away from them, but eventually she found herself grow stronger.
Every girl needs to read this book! And then, every woman needs to read this book! We can all relate to Much Afraid's journey, and we can all be blessed, encouraged, and challenged through it. And who doesn't need to know that The Shepherd is good and loves us and knows what we need?!? Seriously, it's a must read!
Make haste, Beloved, be thou like an hart On mountains spicy sweet; And I, on those High Places where thou art, Will follow on hinds’ feet; As close behind the hart, there leaps the roe, So where thou goest, I will surely go.
The first and most apparent key to this story is that it is undoubtedly a reflective picture of an intimate walk with Jesus Christ, despite trials, hardships, and the most dreaded of them all, fear.
The main character, Much Afraid, embarks on a very noble journey (representing the Christian walk with God before going to Heaven) where she will find that faith is not only the key to the unseen, but a necessity to overcome the things that are seen, such as fear, and the world that so loves to tower above us.
When I hear the phrase "Contemporary Christian Fiction," I snort inwardly, blanch, and avoid eye contact.
He did not come any nearer, having learned a little more prudence, and was not going to make her call for the Shepherd if he could avoid it, but simply stood and looked at her and laughed and laughed again, the bitterest sound that Much-Afraid had heard in all her life.” Hmm. Perhaps Hannah Hurnard was an ESL student.Christian authors should attempt to transcend the Contemporary Christian label, as C.S. Lewis did with his Chronicles of Narnia, and as Andrew Peterson has done with his Wingfeather Saga.
This book is a tricky one to judge.The overall writing style is very odd...childish almost, in a very prosaic way, and the book is liberally sprinkled with poetry.
For literary merit alone, I wouldn't give this book any awards.The thing that I really did love in parts was the allegory.
It also seems that the allegory is frequently "padded" with writing that exists solely for the sake of making a cohesive story (which it doesn't) and doesn't have any allegorical meaning.Finally, there were a couple of very unbiblical ideas expressed, which I was disappointed by.I would actually recommend the abridged children's version of this book more highly.
This is not a bla-bla-book although it is a story but the genuine profound experience the author lived all her life and also while she was visiting Switzerland for a 10-days-holiday.
(...) To cast ourselves down like the Brumbach falls, in happy giving, asking for nothing in return except the joy of so doing.
When we really begin to learn and practice that lesson we shall begin to feel "at home" in the eternal world of selfless love.Here in Les Avantes, God has been saying to me over and over again, "It is so happy to love without asking to be loved in return.
Something I think many modern Americans have forgot as we do live in a blessed age.I gave it two stars because of two problems I had with the book.One. The Shepard asks Much-Afraid what would happen if He lied to her.
She then thinks and comes to the conclusion that she would still follow after Him because she desires Him and Him alone and has no where else to go.Now I think what the author was trying to say is that we really must desire God in the most pure and fierce way that we can.
Now I think that the author meant that we must be careful about saying things that are far from clear are certain.
I know everyone is supposed to love this book, but I found it annoying. Don't tell anyone.
One of the most meaningful and gorgeous books I've ever read. It totally changed my life and my perspective on the things I've been through.
With that said, my favorite moment of the book was in Ch 4, where the main character, Much Afraid, discovers a beautiful wild flower, that would in most cases go seemingly unnoticed.
At which point, the Shepherd comes to explain that the greatest victories in life occur when self-love in a person is conquered by true love.
Some of My servants have indeed won great visible victories and are rightly loved and reverenced by other men, but always their greatest victories are like the wild flowers, those which no one knows about.
This book is a profound little book.  Hannah Hurnard writes a very provocative account of little "Much Afraid" and her journey to join the Shepherd in the High Places. This book unashamedly deals with the doubts we face in our Christian walk. When it seems that we are being led in the wrong direction, in the end we have taken the right journey and been made stronger for it. Without the suffering and trials we face, we cannot learn to enjoy the pleasure and beauty of the High Places.
After completing this book for the third time in about 4 years, these are my conclusions:Is it a little cheesy? Likely. Is the author a Biblical scholar? Unlikely. But for whatever reason, this book is 3/3 on lifting my spirits out of the depths. It is simple and beautiful and trains my heart to endure when circumstances are difficult or confusing. This one is a keeper.
Beautiful!
That describes exactly what I am going through right now in my own faith, and I found myself comforted and reminded, once again, that my Shepherd cares, and he has never left me.
That sometimes, the hardest struggles we face are not the great ones, but the daily ones.Another thing about the book I liked were the altars Much-Afraid builds, and the little memorial stones she collects along the way.
I don't really know, but I know I want some altars and memorial stones of my own.Overall, this book is one that I will probably read again, perhaps to my children.
Here she is, the fearful Much-Afraid, learning to trust her Shepherd as He transforms her.
What is interesting is the significance of encounters with her Shepherd.
It is only through the deepening relationship realised by those encounters and her obedience in stepping out in faith that the transformation occurs.
Power is released when we obey and we see very practical examples of this in Much-Afraid's journey.I took a lot away from this powerful tale and trust some of the key messages will linger in my heart for many weeks.
There's a few places I might have some minor theological quibbles (especially in her telling of how the book came to be - it's hard to tell whether it's writerly language/poetic license, or her actually looking for "messages from God" in the flowers/mountains/etc.). However, I see why this book has become so well-loved. It's comforting, challenging, and encouraging. It doesn't quite make five stars on my list, but I have a feeling I'll be re-reading this one in the future.
"She had the feeling that somehow, in the very far-off places, perhaps even in the far-off ages, there would be a meaning found to all sorrow and an answer too fair and wonderful to be as yet understood." I liked a lot of things about this book, though it did seem to be about 50 pages too long.
Of course, I found myself thinking, it would be easy to have a strong faith if you could hear God speaking audibly and He appeared in person whenever you called Him like He does for Much Afraid.
An allegorical account of Much-Afraid and her journey of character transformation. At the beginning of the story, Much-Afraid is haunted by Craven-Fear and Pride. But as she follows the Shepherd and the path he has ordained for her, she learns to appreciate His will for her life through acceptance and surrender. She learns that the things she is terrified of are not a barrier to perfect love who is able to cast out all her fears.
What a beautiful story showing how Good loves us and helps us to become more like Christ.
The main character Much-Afraid has to overcome her fears in order to be with the Good Shepherd on the high places.
However, when all is given to God we are able to rise above those fetters and onto more spiritual high places.I loved how the author spoke of her journey in the last chapter.
A verse she mentioned stated that "Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it." I Thessalonians 5:24Whatever you set out to do, if it is meant for you....you will see it come to pass despite obstacles placed in your way.This was not my usual read as it is written in a slightly different style than I'm use to.
I have to admit it; I like this children's version even better than the original  Hind's Feet on High Places. The pictures are enchanting and the abridgment is quite well done. I have read this aloud several times to some of my younger siblings, and they have always enjoyed it--particularly the illustrations of Pride and Craven Fear, I'm afraid! :) The text may be a little above the heads of pre-school children and too long for the hyper ones, but for slightly older children who still enjoy being read to or reading it on their own, it is excellent.
This is a charming allegory of the Christian journey, particularly the Christian's battle against self. Hannah Hurnard is a genius wordsmith, and the twists and turns of the plot, along with her delicate writing style, kept me intrigued. This is an old book (1930s? 40s?), but Hurnard's insight is amazingly relevant. I would especially recommend this to anyone who has the patience for books designed to inspire quiet self-reflection and who can appreciate older writing styles.
I've read this book maybe 4 times now?! It never ceases to bless and challenge me. The theology of Hurnard's later writings went a little sideways, but Hinds Feet and its sequel...Mountain of Spices have a special place in my heart.
An allegory, beautifully written. Puts me in mind of C.S. Lewis' 'Till We Have Faces, but it is less complex. This is a story/parable for the soul. It would be a lovely gift book.
One of my favourite books ever and that says a lot with the amount of books I read! Absolutely loved it! It impacted on my life in a big way!
