https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/357664.Because_of_Winn_Dixie
Opal had to leave all her friends behind and she’s adapting to living in a new place.
After her father sends her to the local Winn-Dixie to pick up a few grocery items, she meets a dog in the produce section that will change her life forever.
Along with Winn-Dixie, she meets multiple people around town including Gloria, a near-blind woman who many think is a witch, a librarian named Miss Franny Block with an interesting story, an ex-convict named Otis who runs the local pet store, two really annoying boys, and two girls of different ages that she can’t seem to figure out.
I think this is the year that I have discovered young adult and middle grade fiction as a genre full of quality books.
Opal and Winn-Dixie need each other and the preacher allows the dog to stay in their adult trailer park home.
They all open up and start enjoying life again due to the combined warmth of Winn-Dixie's personality and Miss Franny's Littmus Lozenge candies.I recently read Where the Heart Is by Billie Letts.
I highly recommend this book to middle grade kids and the adults in their lives who are looking for a positive read.
Opal becomes her best friends and together they meet many wonderful characters over the summer.
She loves all of the stories from her new friends like the town librarian, a local woman who is rumored to be a witch as well as a guitar-playing ex-con pet store clerk.
These characters and their stories help Opal to start to connect with other children, help deal with her loss and sadness and even realize that others may be dealing with loss and sadness of their own.
The power that love has in helping deal with loss and coping with real life.
A wonderful dog who brings people together. What's not to like?
Opal Buloni goes to the Winn-Dixie store, and comes home with a big scraggly dog she claimed on impulse.
Because of this dog, now named Winn-Dixie, she meets her new neighbors in the Florida town she now lives in.
Let me repeat: Nothing bad happens to the dog.This book is carefully balanced with dark and light.
It could so easily have been one of those syrupy, sweet stories with charmingly eccentric townspeople spouting folk wisdom, and the dog bringing everyone together at an ice cream social.
Gloria, one of the townspeople Opal meets, used to be a drunk.
A children's book I read for a Challenge and what a treat it was!
No wonder it won awards.The Winn-Dixie of the title is big sook of a stray dog who comes into 10 year old Opal's life at a time when she needs a friend.
Winn-Dixie however is great at making friends and over the course of the book Opal's life turns around.Of course there are lessons to be learned in acceptance of life and of other people.
Discovering such treasures unexpectedly is the reason I find challenges rewarding:)
It's not difficult to see why this beautiful book has won numerous awards.
After reading a few friends' reviews for this book I simply knew I had to read it and I'm so glad I did.
This is a heartwarming tale of a young girl named Opal who lives with her father.
But that's all about to change the day she comes across a dog who appears just as lost and lonely as Opal does.
Opal names the dog Winn-Dixie and quickly the pair become inseparable.
A fabulous children's book to be read and savoured for all ages.
“Because of Winn-Dixie” is an uplifting novella that made me laugh out loud while enjoying the read.
Winn-Dixie is a supermarket chain located throughout southeastern US.
India Opal, a girl of ten or so, goes into one of the stores to buy a few things, and comes out with a mangy, smelly large dog.
So Opal adopted the dog, took him home, cleaned him up and named him “Winn-Dixie”.
This is the story of how Opal and Winn-Dixie brought joy to some lonely folks in Naomi, Florida.
“Because of Winn-Dixie” was her first published work.
This is especially remarkable considering the usual behavior of her students (which is NOT sitting still, listening, and engaging in meaningful ways).The story is well told in the ten-year old main character's voice.
I enjoyed the story and appreciated the meaningful concepts told in simple terms.And Lauren- I'm wondering if it was while reading this that you put your prejudices aside and began to warm up to Sadie?
Why don't you go on and tell me everything about yourself, so as I can see you with my heart." (and a few pages later, Opal narrates) "I could feel her listening with all her heart, and it felt good."
This is the first book my 8-year-old son was reading and said to me, "This book is really good, Mommy. I think you would like it. You should read it."So. I'm reading it. :).....Someone called Kate DiCamillo's writing enchanting. I think enchanting fits perfectly.
They befriended Ms. Franny the librarian who loved to tell fantastic storie, Ottis who was a criminal but now worked at a pet store and gave Opal a job, Sweetie Pie Thomas who always wished that she had a dog just like Winn Dixie, and other people as well.Opal talked Gloria Dump into haveing a party and she invited all of her friends...
This is a powerful read about family, community, love, friendship, loss, and a wonderful dog who ties it all together.
I really need to read every single one of Kate DiCamillo's books because I've loved every one I've tried.
First read in 2014:Before GR, I used to think children's books were just for children.
This is a lovely story that will make you laugh and cry.
I really think author Kate DiCamillo is special, as I've loved three of her books, all written for children.
I listened to this the whole way through; never read the paper book at all.
Imagine my surprise when the library movie/book group I belong to chose this at the one meeting I miss!
The more people we meet and the less we prejudge them the happier we will be.
They don’t want to meet people different than themselves.
They don’t take a person’s past into account when judging their place in the here and now, let alone the future.Opal and Winn Dixie, her sweet, lovable, rescued dog are the perfect examples of open hearts and open minds.
Opal is new in town, no friends to speak of (other than the new-found Winn Dixie) and so looking for some companionship.
It reminded me in some ways of To Kill a Mockingbird.
In both cases, a father is left to take care of his child(ren) without the help of a mother.
And in both cases, a young girl, observant but not omniscient, grapples with problems and mysteries much bigger than she is, and gradually works her way toward a solution.
The dog, Winn-Dixie, who is bigger than life and twice as goofy, is not so much the main character as the catalyst which brings out the best in most of the other characters.
This was a pretty good story about a young girl named Opal who adopts a dog named Winn-Dixie who changes her life and the lives of others. If you like these types of stories, be sure to check this out at your local library and wherever books are sold.
Some of her books are really funny, like the Marcy Watson series (hey, even a serious reader has to laugh sometime), but the majority of her novel-length works are way too serious to be written off as children's literature.
As it is usual with her writing, DiCamillo chose the South for the settings of Winn-Dixie.
So, when you are looking for a light serious read (in case of DiCamillo it is not an oxymoron) to share with a younger reader, or to read by yourself (it's good for the spirit to be a child again), give this book a try.
This book captured childhood so beautifully. Loved all the characters and the sweet message of friendship. I have read several of Kate DiCamillo's books and have loved every single one; but I'd have to say this one is my favorite!
This book will charm you to your toenails whether or not your daddy is a preacher, you live in a small Southern town, or your dog sneezes when he smiles and is named for a supermarket chain.
BECAUSE OF WINN-DIXIE follows newcomer Opal Buloni as she acquires a ratty, smelly mutt in the aisles of the eponymous grocery store, grooms him, and loves him.
Update - October 22, 2018: In response to questions from other GR members, many of the Winn-Dixie stores have been sold off to other chains in the South.
However, many Winn-Dixie supermarket locations still exist in northern Florida, in and around Jacksonville.
All the feels. All of them.
The talented author of this book is, Kate Dicamillo and the genre of this great book is Adventure.Ople is the main character of this adventurious story.
Then the dog is licking her face, but the manager is really getting mad.
"WHOS DOG IS THIS" screams the manager.
"Mine" Ople reaplied scared.
The only problem with that was that, thats the name of the store.This book is one of my favorite books that i have read.
Cause this is a fun bok to read and you understand that helping is the Right thing to do.
What a great children's book. Really enjoyed this one.
My 10 year old granddaughter Clara has decided to join a book club this year.
They are going to meet once a month before school starts for the day, and she asked me if I wanted to join the club too and attend the meetings with her.
OF COURSE I WANT TO JOIN YOUR BOOK CLUB WITH YOU CLARA!!!
I don’t even care that we will be meeting at 7:00 in the morning (OY!) Granddaughters + Books = Heaven!Because of Winn-Dixie is the selected book for this month.
I could cry because the club meets on the 5th of next month and I am going to be out of town!
Cuma IDR 45k di Big Bad Wolf Indonesia.Aku mulai terlena dengan Kate DiCamillo, sejak Edward Tulane. Tidak terkecuali buku ini. Ceritanya sederhana. Tentang India Opal (nama gadis cilik) yang menemukan seekor anjing di swalayan."I just realized something, India Opal. When I told you your mama took everything with her, I forgot one thing, one very important thing that she left behind.""What?""You. Thank God your mama left me you."Selengkapnya: http://bibliough.blogspot.co.id/2016/...
This is just a beautiful book. If you love dogs, if you love children, and if you have any appreciation for the power of love (and dogs) in healing hearts and relationships, then this is a book for you. The writing is great and the story is captivating. This is sort of like "Fried Green Tomatoes" meets "The Sandlot" meets "Snoopy." If you don't love it, I'll eat my hat.
Nhưng luc minh đoc vân cam thây đươc sư mơi la va thu vi trong đo.Mơi la, thu vi không bơi cac tinh tiêt ma ơ hê thông nhân vât cua no.
Môt cô be co cai tên kha la: India Opal Buloni vưa chuyên đên nơi ơ mơi bơi cha minh vôn la môt linh muc đên nhân nhiêm vu tai đây.
Giưa luc lac long vơi canh vât mơi me, ban be xa la va buôn râu vi nôi nhơ me không nguôi, cô be không chi la vi
Chính nhờ sự nhẹ nhàng, ấm áp, chậm rãi của câu chuyện khiến cho bài học được truyền tải một cách dễ dàng hơn.Điều mình thích ở cuốn này ở chỗ nó không chỉ xoay quanh chú chó Winn - Dixie, không chỉ tô đậm vai trò của chú ta trong việc tạo ra những thay đổi ở người khác như trong các sách về thú nuôi khác.
(You totally need to read this with a Southern accent, got it?
But whatever.)  I absolutely had to read this because I adore the movie.
They movie basically followed the plot line-for-line.
Awk.)It was like speed-reading the movie.
I read it in under an hour.
It's interesting seeing the author set up the plot twists and tying everything together.
Really well done, but (if you're a book nerd like me) a bit predictable.
I loved the twinkling of history.
I loved how each character had something to contribute.
The annoying boys actually wanted to be friends with India Opal.
Totally wonderful book!
LOVED it.
India Opal Buloni (DiCamillo has a fondness for zany names), a preacher’s daughter newly arrived in town, has trouble dealing with the empty space left by her mother, who left the family seven years previously.
Having an overly attached, inquisitive dog puts India in new situations which lead her to meet some interesting townsfolk, like the good-natured old librarian with plenty of stories, a woman rumored to be a witch (another DiCamillan name: Gloria Dump), and a guitar-playing ex-con pet store clerk.
I enjoyed this book a great deal and plan on reading it to my class; this is a story of coping with life, not wishing for fairy-tale endings.
I'm an old lady, and I just read another "book for kids" -- and not out loud to a kid.
No, I haven't abandoned the "currently-reading" books shown on my profile page; in fact, I opened Because of Winn-Dixie because I want to keep them from winding up on the stopped-before-the-end shelf.
Kate DiCamillo's work would have gotten four stars from me, but it's got that Newbery Honor Book emblem on the cover; so -- only four stars?
See it as a lesson on the gap between appearances and reality, between interpretation and fact?
Yep. So, five stars?
Okay, yep.
★★★★★ Didn’t realize this was a Juvenile book when I got the audio from the library for a challenge on “Southern Belles” -- but I’m glad I listened to tale of a motherless preacher’s daughter who adopts a big mangy dog. Loved this short story and Cherry Jones' narration is wonderful. She is so good, I may even listen to it again!Update: I did lisen to it twice - it was that good.
Heartwarming, southern read with beautiful themes about not judging people for their pasts, making friends with the unexpected and learning to deal with sadnesses in your life. I liked how one reviewer compared this to, To Kill a Mockingbird, except it is written for middle graders. Well worth the read!
