https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102684.Night_Shift_Night_Shadow
Both novels are formulaic.
It's interesting to me that Ms. Roberts earlier novels are more formulaic than her newer work.
In the first one, there is a brief glimpse of the strong character development that she develops later in her career.The second novel though, is pure purple prose.
The romance stretched credulity and the only thing more absurd than the hero's treatment of the heroine is the fact that she falls for him anyway.
I finished the novel because it was a fast read, but I spent the whole thing annoyed at both characters.
A quick easy read with no surprises.
This was a pretty good book. I definitely enjoyed both stories and want to read more in this series. I wanna see what happens with the partner! This had plenty of suspense, humor, some tense scenes, emotions, courage, strong characters, and great endings. Good for anytime reading and definitely pulls you in. Loved the characters and can't wait to get to know more. Enjoy!
Night Shift and Night Shadow are the first two installments of a six book saga that brings characters into each other's lives time and again.
Mysterious circumstances and intrigue combine with love in curious settings to hold the reader's attention.Night Shift details Cilla O'Roarke's past life and current position as a night disc jockey.
The accurate character portrayals and settings make this book an easy read that drops the reader into each detailed situation.
During the course of her investigations, Deb's parents, Cilla and Boyd, are reintroduced.
Read them in order and you will feel you know each character by the time you finish the last book.
"...She smelled like midnight.
Secret and sinful.
She sounded like sex.
Hot and inviting.
Than you looked into her eyes, really looked, and saw simple innocence.
I'd better not ask!I rated a 2 because these books didn't seem like the "average" Roberts books.
Everything was a tad bit rushed, but given this book included 2 stories I think she did the best she could given the length.
I personally think each of these stories could have stood alone; she had pleny of room and circumstances to make each go the distance into a single novel...
I thought it was a good book it had some good moments in there when I didn't want to put it down nora roberts writing is sometimes spicy and suspensful i really enjoyed it.
Wow! Nora Roberts did another set of winning stories! I enjoyed these 2 thrillers and could not put it down til I knew how it ended. I loved getting to know the great characters and the tease all the way through till you find out the ending. It was exciting, suspenseful, surprising, and I enjoyed the Good Read! Keep them coming!
Loved these stories. I feel like the In Death series is loosely based around the characters in Night Shadow. Very similar theme and convictions of the characters. Hard line lawyers versus rich magnate crime fighter who occasionally bends the rules.
Two novels in one book. Each story features a sister. I've always been a fan of Ms. Roberts for as long as I can remember. These stories were written in the 90's so they are great. Not a fan of her new stuff but will read them. This is classic romantic suspense which she does so well.
This is one of my favorite books. I loved reading every minute of it, from description to dialogue. It pulled me in from the beginning.
Typical. Easy read, a little unbelievable at times but that's what makes good fluff, I guess. A nice time-waster.
Both characters are extremely stubborn and proud which makes the story suspenseful and romantic.
I loved the mystery and suspense of the story and all the well defined characters and how it all intertwined to make up a great story line.
5+ stars.Night Shadow: Deborah O'Rourke is the sister from the previous story who was raised by Cilla.
Ahead a few years, we find Deborah now working as an Assistant DA for a troubled, crime and gang invested call, Urbana.
Also enjoyed adding characters from the previous story and their new lives.
Loved the characters and story line.
Another great mystery, suspense, romance book.
Night Shift and Night Shadow are the first two books in Nora Roberts' fan favorite Night Tales series.
Both books are good, fast reads and include the stories of two sisters, Cilla and Deborah O'Roarke.Cilla O'Roarke is the older sister and has raised her sister from the time she was 12.
Lots of humor and a good story make this a must read for Nora fans.Deborah is an up and coming assistant district attorney when she first meets Gage Guthrie, a local millionaire who once was a cop.
It is early Nora but still worth the read!
I count this as two books since they were originally published that way.Night Shift has detective Boyd Fletcher trying to protect a radio announcer from a stalker.
Cilla is working the night shift at a local radio station.
She resists both his protection and attention.
Night Shadow (Night Tales, #2) follows Cilla's sister in her chosen profession as a prosecutor.
She is saved by a vigilante one night as she is walking away from an investigation.
She is attracted to both the vigilante who goes by the name, Nemisis, and another man, Gage.
As usual, I enjoyed these Nora Roberts books.
2 books in 1. I enjoyed the twists in the plots straight up to the end. really good book. Plus I'm not one to go for romance novels
Night Shift: Cilla is working her dream job at a radio station.
She starts getting weird calls at the Radio Station from a guy that she doesn't know, or at least she doesn't think she knows.
She is falling in love with a man named Boyd.
Cilla's stalker is a man who thinks she killed his brother.
He tried to kill Boyd now he is after Cilla.
to Boyd's marriage proposal.Night Shadow: Deborah Roarke has to watch her back because the shadow man is after her.
Deborah falls in love with a man named Gage Guthrie.
I liked Night Shift better than Night Shadow.
Night Shift had a good mystery and I guess the romance part was alright.
I am not a fan of aggressive male characters.
I liked Cilla.
I called who the stalker was from very early on in the book, but it was still entertaining to read Night Shade had a better mystery story, (they were both good, but I didnt call this one) but I did not like the romance at all.
Gage was not my idea of a great guy.
He was like Batman without any manners.
The first sex scene was rape-y.
I really liked Night Shift.
I'd give it 4 stars.Cilla and Boyd were great, and there was intrigue, and suspense, and it was all around good.Favourite quote: "when you dream of me, dream good."Night Shadow wasn't as great, I'd give it 3.5 stars.
I didn't like Deborah as much, as a character, and even though Gage was really intriguing, their relationship bothered me.
However, the suspense was good, and I did enjoy the plot and reading it.
But I really wanted to read my next book (Unravel Me by Tahereh Mafi), so I may have rushed through this one and not given it my full attention.
maybe even 3.5, what I liked most about the whole series is it gives you a glimpse into the development of the J.D. Robb series, you can see the development of main characters in the first 5 of this 6 novella series.
If I'd read these at the time they were written I'd probably have rated them higher, but there is some of the formula writing of the era in there that bugs me more now than it did then.
so read it with the era it was written in, in mind.
also love the whole batman analogy going on with both Gage and his updated Roark counterpart, or is that reincarnation?
I appreciated the fact that the stories in this involved sisters. I enjoyed both of the tales, however the constant indecision became too repetitive in the first, while understanable, it was just too often and too much. The second seemed like another version of Batman Forever. There were other twists, but it was basically the same. So while both were good stories - they lost points for annoyance and predictability.
Night Shift: Good, good story! Loved the characters of Cilla and Boyd (even though I do think it's funny she used the name Cilla in Tribute, too). Very good mystery and very good romance. Nora had her talent back in 1990.Night Shadow: Why are there no other superhero romances like this one? I loved, loved, loved this one. Loved how Deborah stood up to Gage and didn't let him push her aside. Fantastic!
The first story is suspenseful, action packed and strangely romantic. The interaction of the two main characters is oddly compelling. The second story is weird and the author's imagination takes the reader on an adventure that while not realistic is a good tale. Once again there's plenty of action and suspense.
Although both Night Shift and Night Shadow are typical romance novels with the normal plots, they each had a unique twist. In Night Shift I enjoyed the late night Radio DJ theme, and in Night Shadow there was a strange sci-fi twist that I don't remember ever coming across in any of Nora Roberts books (that I've read so far).
2 Stories involving 2 sisters one a DJ at a radio station who receives Death threats and is assigned a police officer to protect her. they have an attraction they both cant fight, but he succumbs first.and the 2nd story is of her little sister who becomes an Assistant District Attorney who falls for a millionaire who has a secret identity.
Both of these books in the combined 1 were ok, not Roberts best I must say. Its the first one is about a women that had a bad marriage and swore of guys and then meets the one, and Night Shadows is about the womans sister from Night Shift and she is too busy with her career, and then finds the guy. I thought that it was basically the same type of story.
What a great series. I loved each and every character and their friends. I found a little piece of myself in each one of the girls. I loved their relationships to each other also. A good read for sure.
Out of the two stories I enjoyed Night Shift the most. The relationship between Boyd and Cilla seemed to develop a bit more naturally. Night Shadow had a predictable story line, their relationship came off looking a bit too rushed, although Nemesis' "power" was a nice bonus.
I really like Nora Roberts, but these didn't have as much supernatuaral as I thought they would have.Night Shift had none but Night Shadow was better. I picked up the others in this series and am glad I did because I get hooked on her characters.
I wasn't convinced the first time I read it a lot time ago. I gave it another try, but I'm still not convinced. The characters are not as well developped as other pieces by Nora Roberts. Both plots are interesting, but not convincing. A quick read, but not an unforgetable one.
lol.. romances you can't live without them. i do enjoy the fact that so far these books seem to be some sort of a series in th efact that each one has a person that has been previously introduced in a previous book.
