https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12522.Book_of_Dreams
I have a confession to make: I didn't enjoy  On the Road  quite as much as everyone else seemed to enjoy On the Road. I'm not sure whether it's because people had forever been telling me how oh-my-god-amazing it is, and thus I went into it with really high expectations--too high, in fact--or if it's because I'm just not a fan of Kerouac's style. Either way, I'm sure it makes me a terrible person, but there it is.So it begs the question why I didn't simply pass on by when I spotted Book of Dreams
Either way, I'm sure it makes me a terrible person, but there it is.So it begs the question why I didn't simply pass on by when I spotted Book of Dreams on the shelf while raiding my local library.
To experience another person's dream is like having a window into their soul.Book of Dreams does indeed offer the reader a window into the very private world inside the mind of Jack Kerouac.
If you must, read On the Road instead; it's about basically the same exact stuff, except it makes more sense, is marginally less rambling, and is easier to follow.
I connected a lot with this book. The way Kerouac's dreams unfolded, the images, the metaphors and the associations made a lot of sense to me. Just like On the Road and Dharma Bums - books that work on an emotional level. Even though it lacks a regular/traditional structure and a discernible rhythm like that of On the Road, Book of Dreams can be considered, in a way, the most important expression of Kerouac's writing, in the sense of what he aimed to achieve: an exploration of the subconscious.
AMAZING, after reading this book I decided to start my own dream journal and the results were a bit of fun, scary and profound!
Jackovy přízračný sny plný zlatavýho prachu, kterej se hemží jako můry. Někdy mám pocit, že Kerouac je lepší básník než Ginsberg.
truthful entrails of the mind unraveled--dreams of making it with little girls even
About 7-8 years ago i first picked up this book but didn't finish it because i was too distracted by study and finishing my Master's.So, i decided to go back to page one and start it again.
This books not only offers you a fascinating glimpse into one of the greatest minds of the twentieth century, but also showcases Kerouac's absolute and steadfast devotion to his calling as a writer.
What amazed me was not only the detail he was able to recall from the dreams but also how he was able to cross-reference previous dream segments and connect them either visually or symbolically to more recent dreams.
As a result of Kerouac's fame, a lot of additional things were published that I consider much more tangential, and this Book of Dreams is a poster child for that.The text is Burroughs-like in its direct stream of consciousness approach with some entries being a couple of sentences, while others span several pages.
While I can see where Kerouac's dreams often informed his texts, I don't think there was a large value in publishing this actual volume and only recommend it for Kerouac fanatics who have literally read the rest of the Duluoz Legend and his poems, and even then a re-read of the better works is probably a better use of time.
This is a decent supplement to the Duluoz Legend, an alternate, shadowy romp through Kerouac's dream life, an odd parallel to the reality on which his fiction is based.
I was so intrigued by the title of this book and for the fact that i've heard and read lot of reviews about On the road.
Jack Kerouac belongs to the Beat generation which includes Allen Ginsburg's Howl.
So I picked up this book and began reading on the train journey back home.
Somehow, books read during train journeys affect me a lot.
I was eager to delve through the dreams of a wanderer's mind...but the wanderer did disappoint with his haywire anecdotes that ended up mostly tiring my mind.
Thankfully Ginsburg did not disappoint with Howl.
"Had a chance to get up at 8.30 and slept till Noon instead, for fear of what to do with all that morning-"
Não sei se foi a tradução, ou a própria essência do estilo de Kerouac, mas raramente eu desisto de um livro, e esse claramente não tinha nada pra dispor de interessante depois da pagina 80 (não que até aí tivesse sido bom).Gostei de algumas partes, mas grande parte do tempo me sinto um intruso na vida de outra pessoa, que na boa, não é lá essas coisas...
Um pervertido sem rumo, alucinando em breves momentos sobre coisas que me interessavam tão minimamente, que não fazia sentido boa parte do tempo.
My impression of this book is similar to what I got out his letters.
I enjoyed the letters, and (at times) the dreams, as 'honest' portraits of a man more 3-dimensional than he usually casts himself in his fiction.
I found myself leaving it on the bedside for months at a time--it's not as though it was a sequential narrative I had to track.
The introduction says the publication I had was the 'complete, intended' Book of Dreams, more than double what was originally published.
It might of been good to just have the original, more succinct version.
I'm not a huge fan of Kerouac, but I am a sucker for books of dreams, particularly from notable authors, as I'm interested in the ways that dreams are represented as a narrative form. So far, Kerouac's fast-paced, ungrammatical style lends itself well to the feeling and uncertainty of dream narratives, though it suffers from the same shortcoming as Cixous' "Dream I Tell You" in presenting material that is fairly everyday and doesn't capture the surreal and epic quality that I love about dream narratives.
Perhaps I have made a mistake reading this book before any other novel of the same writer. I didn't like it at all mainly because the dreams he is describing are often without a clear story line and so separate one from another and because I had no clue regarding some of the characters encountered in these dreams.My copy of this book is in romanian.
Sometimes Kerouac can be so very good. Other times he can be like this.You know how hearing about other people's dreams can often be tedious and boring? Imagine reading an entire book like that! That is exactly what we have here. Granted, these are Jack Kerouac's dreams, so they are more fun than, for instance, your co-worker's, but good lord does it become tiresome after a while.
Literally accounts of his dreams that he scribbled out upon waking. Definitely only for the major fan of his prose style, since it is not what he says, but rather how he says it, that makes this book worth reading at all.
Himself at his best I'd say. Short, snappy, painfully pretty dreams recorded and brought back to life in a style meant for maybe just that purpose. Hard enough to catch that fish, but then he gets it to talk.
This book is fun just because it allows you to really settle into Jack's brain. Not always fun, often sad, but very, very comfortable.
Aparentemente, única edición en castellano del Book of Dreams de Kerouac.
For the Kerouac enthusiast, one wades through dreamy dream dreams, murky dreams, unfortunate dreams, dreams that reveal Jack's coeur, and then hits golden poetry prose.
Good cover!
Some were interesting, some weren't, but the concept was great!
This book is boring and pretty stupid. Maybe if I was a Kerouac completest, but then I'd be boring and stupid.
Not my favourite of his. This is more an exercise in image writing than anything else.
I'm a fan of Kerouac...but this is simply torture to read. Rambling dreams with no plot or purpose. I'd rather he just told me these dreams over coffee.
A JK's dreams
Was unable to follow up whith anything, anyhow, a really smoked book!
was probably far better to personal acquaintances and professional psychoanalysts.
Jack Kerouac's dream log spanning from 1952-1960, and they are filled with characters from several of his novels.
just a bunch of rambling...don't waste your time.
