https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21796.Marathon_Man
I think it made it quite a bit more fun having no clue what the story was about or where it was going (I haven’t seen the movie) so I’ll try not to ruin anything in this review.
I’d hoped that he could write a thriller with the same humor he injected into both that book and the movie screenplay based on it.
I will say that Goldman knows how to write torture, death, and chase scenes which really covers all the bases in a thriller.
Now that I’ve read the book, I can’t wait to see the movie, which stars Dustin Hoffman as Babe Levy.
It is so nice when the right book opens at the right time; when you're fidgety and middle-seat suffering on a three hour flight and nothing but a ripping yarn will salve that claustrophobia.
Take me away, Calgon Marathon Man!I knew that Dustin Hoffman starred in the movie adaptation of this novel, but my knowledge of the story ended there.
I am a complete babe in the woods when it comes to thrillers - friends familiar with the genre would probably have seen all the twists coming twenty pages ahead - so it was a blast to enjoy the roller coaster ride.
My favorite passage describing his history studies, is a game I like to play with wikipedia, something Babe didn't have access to in the 70's: pick up a year and do a snapshot of the events and people that made it memorable, try to make the connections between apparently random occurences: 1875: Boss Tweed went to jail in New York City around then, which meant lots of big-city rulers around, Big Power men, to each town its own Dick Daley, and Christian Science began then too, old Mary Eddy and her nut notions, and when was the first Kentucky Derby?
People were tired, wearing double-knit polyester leisure suits, angry, afraid (of everything) paranoid, and feeling spiritually bankrupt.
A grim, violent, paranoid thriller.
Looking at it thirty-five years later it's apparent that Goldman wrote a novel that was tapping various ills and fears of the time.
The characters use plain old fashioned phones.It's very refreshing in a retro way.
Of course it wasn't retro at the time was it.In closing this is a cynical, dark, violent novel.
It's also intelligent, witty in spots and a fast read.
I read it over a week.
I never dozed off while reading it - which in my opinion is a compliment.
Despite the early-70s feel, however, the book works.Every reviewer talks about the dentistry scene.
But good as it is, there are at least two other scenes in the book which are better than that one.
Even though I've read the book at least ten times in the past thirty years - and to be honest that's just a guess, I'd bet it's closer to twenty times - and even though that scene has always stuck in my mind, it still never fails to get me.
If you'd like to know which scene I'm thinking of, read the book; if it isn't obvious to you after that, drop me a line.A good book, well worth reading.
On the other hand, there is homophobia throughout the book, of the particulary insulting kind which associates Nazis with homosexuality.
How stereotypically tiresome!Those "bad guys" are portrayed negatively, in part, by using their "sexuality compromised morality." They die in this book to pay for crimes against humanity done by themselves or others during World War 2.
Thus it's stupidly superfluous that Goldman made them also die because of their sexuality, as if being Nazi war criminals and collaborators wasn't quite enough to assure their eternal damnation, or to make them distasteful to the reader.
Are you due for a dental appointment? Have you got tooth ache?Is that filling loss? Well don't read this before you go? I often get this mixed up with Magic also by Him.This a real horror story to be read in the dentist surgary
After completing Marthon Man by William Goldman I am certain that I will read the sequel.
This is the first novel I've read by Goldman.
Many people are familiar with the movie featuring Dustin Hoffman.
Luckily I am not familiar with said movie but I do hope to be someday.
Babe is a very self-aware character and it's obvious in the moments where we get to peer into his head.This novel isn't long so I'll try not to give away anything because there are no unnecessary moments in this book.
I read this a looooooooooooooooooooooooooong time ago and remember really liking it then. Not sure if it would stand the time test.
(Certainly Goldman and Le Carre aren't on the same level, so don't go giving me a lot of shit for that comment, sheesh.)I was looking for a light, quick, fun read and that's what I got.
Reading his writing makes me think that writing is incredibly easy, but I know that's not true at all, that's a big fat, fatty lie.
The reality is a much better choice, but I couldn't get him in my mind while reading so I didn't force it.There aren't a lot of surprises in this book.
It's a quick read, perfect for what I needed, and I want more like this.
When I say girlfriend, I think that's probably overstating it a bit.
She said she had something for me before she left, and I was counting on at least a snog or a fumble, but instead got to wave at her leaving in the car, but the car stopping briefly for her to hand me a dog-eared, sun-stained copy of Marathon Man.
"You'll love this," she said.
By the time I'd finished it, fast, I'd forgotten where it came from.
Was the grown up world so fast, brutal and deceitful?
The plot moves right along and it has a really good twist right at the half-way point, that does a nice job.
It's steeped in some really bad 70s lingo that would be fine in a movie script, but really reads pretty dated in the novel.
2. There's just a nagging sensation of things being just so.
Things that are supposed to be random, are really just clockworked to death.
I could forgive one or the other, but both costs this book a fourth star.
Goldman tends to start his books with a non-fiction forward, which is delightful.
Read this years ago - more than once - and have seen the movie many, many times. Do yourself a favor - grab this book ASAP and enjoy!!!
But funny.
The Marathon Man is surprisingly personal, this is Babe's life, his story.
We see the world through the eyes of this highly intelligent, funny, self-aware twenty-five year old New Yorker with a huge chip on his bony shoulder.
Through this lens the reader is confronted with evil incarnate , but the youth, ambition and neuroses of Babe keeps the book from sinking into despair.
A shadow world of intrigue, nazi arrogance and government conspiracy is up against one puny Jewish historian of humility, self doubt and, crucially, that hallmark of a marathon man, endurance.
Babe is an American hero!
From BBc Radio 4:William Goldman's dark cult thriller about a student whose world is turned upside down by a Nazi dentist and a network of spies.Dramatised by Stephen Keyworth.Starring Jack Lowden, Ian McDiarmid and Tom Burke.Directed by Kirsty Williams.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b08xx9tn
Tom Levy, a smart aleck studying under a schorlarship gets involved with his brother Doc who is working secretly for Szell a diamond smuggler.
He is forced to kill Chen and Robertson, his fellow couriers in self defence.
Unfortunately, his luck runs out and he is killed by Szella who has crossed into America in such of his precious diamondds.
Marathon man, or Levy is caught amidst the thick of things and tortured for what supposedly his brother told him before passing away.
It is a quick read and fans of thriller books will enjoy the twist and turns surrounding the characters.
Liked, didn't love.
It's a quick, easy read and very much of its time period.
Though mine was a recent hardcover re-release with an intro by the author (a good intro detailing how he got into writing for Hollywood), this book really feels to me like a beat-up, pulpy paperback you'd carry on the subway.
That's not a bad thing.
A fun thriller that reads like a movie, which is how I came to know it originally.
My mom was a big fan of this film when I was a kid.
Fortunately, seeing it didn't turn me off the dentist forever.
I don't have a lot of memories of this book, except that the plot and the sense of suspense gripped me throughout, and that it was a creative way of looking at carryover from the Nazi past. And because I know Goldman is known for his ability to come up with one captivating scene, I don't think it's unfair to mention that the torture scene involving dental instruments is one of the most disturbing in all of fiction.
I found this in an op shop while on holiday, was hooked by the brilliant writing in the first chapter and had to buy it. It's violent and has quite a gloomy ending, but as a thriller it's top notch. In the end however it's Goldman's writing that makes us believe that such a fantastic tale could possibly have any reality. The writing is vital and funny and terrifying often all within one page. Quite a contrast to The Princess Bride!
this is another book i knew when i was too young: watched the movie on tv in the seventies, watched a video of the movie sometime in the eighties, watched part of it on some cable channel last month, so i come to this book after memorable performances by dustin hoffman and laurence olivier and cannot see the scenes or characters independent of the movie.
but it works well independent of knowing history of time and conventions of genre thrillers.
part of a seventies us/worldwide thrillers project i am thinking of...
But more than the intriguing plot, it's the characterization of Babe that makes this novel worth 5 stars.
Babe is a completely believable genius narcissist (the best kind right?) who receives his real world education throughout the novel as he learns that the life he has built up since the death of his father was built entirely upon lies.There are so many wonderfully memorable lines, funny and awesomely vengeful i just had to add them.
The line about erasers I think I'll keep for the rest of my days, and Babe's lecture to Szell near the end of the novel is just so fitting.
IS IT SAFE ?repeat this a million times. IT'S SO SAFE YOU WOULDN'T BELIEVE IT. haha, pure gold. A dentist a torturer; or a torturer a dentist.Will we ever know ?
One of my all time favorites.
Marathon man is a fast paced thriller written around 1970s.The language is commendable and I bet you'd come across a lot of new words while reading the book.The plot:- Babe, the protagonist, is a jew, a history student and an aspiring marathon-runner.
He comes to know that the murderer, Dr. Christian Szell(a character inspired by Dr.Josef Mengele) was trying to smuggle diamonds out of America and his brother was in a secret operation to prevent that.
Tom "Babe" Levy is a graduate student and training to be a marathon runner.
Babe's brilliant academic father committed suicide under McCarthy accusations leaving Babe and his older brother Doc to raise themselves.
When Doc comes for a visit things fall apart.
Doc recognizes immediately that Elsa is lying about everything.
When Doc is murdered that very night, Babe's concept of the world and his bother and his father is shattered forever.
Those shadow people - cruel Nazi torturers- come after Babe thinking he knows something.
But Babe doesn't know - anything.
Babe is tall, skinny, and lanky, not an image Dustin can pull off.
Un thriller compatto, potente, affilato come uno scalpello in un dente. Il maratoneta, in relativamente poche pagine, unisce una storia al fulmicotone (si passa da uno scontro fra killer professionisti a sessioni di tortura in un battito di ciglia) a un cast realisticamente ambiguo e psicologicamente ripugnante (sfido chiunque a definire un qualsiasi personaggio di questo libro moralmente positivo). Un grande romanzo da leggere tutto di un fiato.
I never knew that a part from this strong conspiracy/crime piece, William Goldman has some iconic but underrated movies on His credit as screenwriter.Some of them which i have seen and loved are,Wildcard (2012)Dreamcatcher (2003)The Ghost and the Darkness (1996)Papillon (1973)Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid (1969)
Thomas "Babe" Levy is a historian studying at Columbia and he's troubled with family guilt which haunts him constantly.
He also is training to run a marathon and that is what he chooses as his identity, hence the title of the book.
He comes from a brilliant family which is fertile ground for spy thrillin'.
Dr. Szell, Nazi war criminal and dentist extraordinaire, is the kingpin of this bad apple group.
Nothing like a Nazi villain who is a dentist to really bring things home in the evil department.
The torture scenes are excruciating to read.The book is action packed and a great read especially if you enjoy 70s panache.
Wow.This is one of the most intense thriller books I have ever read.
The plot is so twisty and captivating, I resent the fact that I didn't read the book in just one go because I lost some of the momentum I had.
William Goldman definitely knows how to build tension.
Because you know that his character is strong enough to find a a way out.I also like the fact that his character is super literate.
Usually, I can see where the author is going, but William Goldman definitely slipped some things by me.
Ages and ages ago my Mom let me see this movie because it was about a Nazi in hiding who comes back and she knew I'd love it.
But I read them just long enough ago that I forgot a lot of the pertinent details, which was frankly pretty awesome for me.
In other chapters the story follows Tom, a graduate student of history.
Then their stories come together.
And the story of an evil Nazi doctor who has been hiding out wondering if it's safe for him to come out gets connected too.
