https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37415.Their_Eyes_Were_Watching_God
I have mixed feelings on this book. On one hand I loved the writing style and I loved the main character and following her journey through life's struggles. On the other hand it was slow moving, which isn't necessarily a bad thing, but I felt things could've been cut to keep the story moving better. I understand why this is such a well loved classic, but I didn't love it as much as I'd hoped to! :(
The love story of Janie and Tea Cake is one of stupendous beauty.
He passes away and Janie meets her true love Tea Cake and she seems to have found her inner peace:"So she sat on the porch and watched the moon rise.
They sat in company with the others in other shanties, their eyes straining against crude walls and their souls asking if He meant to measure their puny might against His. They seemed to be staring at the dark, but their eyes were watching God."This novel was a forgotten masterpiece published in 1935 but forgotten until Alice Walker rediscovered her - and her gravesite - in 1977.
He didn’t like the way the men looked at Janie and had her tie up her lovely hair everyday so as not to rile up so much lust in the male population.
The Lovely Halle Barry played Janie Crawford in the 2005 movie versionThe men of the community that had been having unnatural thoughts that came...well...very naturally to them regarding this married woman soon found themselves on the outside track once she became a widow.
A young man by the name of Tea Cake showed up and suddenly for the first time Janie found out what love felt like.
The modernism of "Their Eyes" lies in the intermixing of 1930's black vernacular with poetic lines which themselves carry astute and precise craft--this is outstanding.
"Their Eyes" is better, Hurston a better writer, THE END.
The prose is severely, sincerely alive.The sadness comes when you realize that Hurston was outright forgotten--she had to be found, her grave properly marked, by none other than Alice Walker (the topic for a screenplay perhaps?).
Even the man at the end of "Their Eyes" has a proper burial, while she, the progenitor of it all was utterly forgotten--but re-found by smart and freeminded readers.
A mulatto woman in a white man's world, who grew aware of an identity not shackled by notions of race, skin color, and even gender, who could look beyond the small horizon carelessly conferred on her by an era which was bluntly apathetic to her kind, who could aspire to be free of a legacy of mere victimhood.And here I am, trying to make sure I do not fuse Zora and Janie together, unable to decide how to love, revere and pity them at the same time.I watched the young and carefree Janie, who bubbled over with an enthusiasm for life, eventually morph into the Janie who embraced the bittersweet realization of having loved and lost.
Written in lush prose that blossoms around lines of vernacular dialogue, Their Eyes Were Watching God follows Janie Crawford as she wades through three turbulent marriages toward a state of financial and emotional independence.
But, despite the frame's promise that Janie will be the one to narrate most of the novel, the narrative is in fact split between long stretches of dialogue and the voice of an omniscient narrator.
The narrative's clash between voices forces readers to consider on what terms, in what ways, and to whom Janie's story is told.
Another "I don't remember it very well, but I know I liked it" story.
Here's what I do recall:A) The main character was a woman, and she had something like 3 lovers throughout the book.
Saucy.B) One of these dudes was named either Teabag, Cornbread, Teabread, or Breadbag.
C) There was some issue with the weather towards the end.D) Zora Neal Hurston got arrested for fucking a kid, or something (I guess that wasn't really in the book, but whatever).Somehow I managed to get through this before my "oh, I should think about black people?" phase, without even batting an eyelid of thought at it.
It's a moving thing, but still and all, it takes its shape from the shore it meets, and it's different with every shore." In the beginning, there was Nanny.
Nanny knew what it meant to be a slave to men.
She was so scared that she wanted to prevent the same thing from happening to her daughter's daughter, even if it meant that she had to force her grandchild to be unhappy.
As long as she was unhappy in a different, secure way, with an old and stable man by her side.That is the background of Janie Crawford's story.
I wasn't prepared to be told a courageous, all-in, love story.Zora Neale Hurston's incredible book is the story of Janie Crawford, a middle aged black woman who has had three marriages.
Hurston shows herself to be a master of both poetic prose and colloquial language, and weaves them seamlessly back and forth.While she highlights the ever present racial problems between blacks and whites, she also shows the problems and hindrances caused within her own community, which in some ways are just as limiting.
She zeroes in specifically on a woman's place within this culture, and then, in relation to her man.Through all this, shines the love story of Janie and Tea Cake.
When I was in school we were given a choice to read Soul on Ice, Johnny got his gun or this book.
Hurston's book always remained in the back of my mind, though I can't help but wonder if I would have appreciated it back then as much as I did now.I did find the dialect difficult at times, but I found if I read it out loud it made more sense.
Found it amazing that this novel was written in so short a time.Read the forward after I had finished and it was vey informative about the difficult journey this book had and how it largely disappeared for a number of years.
I understand her insecurities, I feel her pain, I smile as she inexplicably giggles for two pages, and I am full of that emotion the conclusion of Hurston's epic tale creates.I love that Hurston gives her readers the tools to understanding Janie's motivation and responses very early in the book in the form of her beautifully constructed pear tree and mule metaphors.
I recently reread this book, in February 2011 and wrote a new review.
It's a lengthy review, but I learned a lot on the second reading, hence the length.
***I decided to remove the original review I posted for this book due to the new review I wrote in February 2011.
The original review I posted for this book is no longer how I feel about the book and therefore wanted to move forward with the 2011 review.
If you decide to visit my blog to read my review, thank you for reading it, I know it's long.
I appreciate the time you've given to read my review.
Hurston's novel, unlike many classics, is as impressive and as relevant today as it was when written.Hurston's story of Janie, a fair-skinned black woman caught in the time period between the end of slavery and the civil rights movement, is the first woman in her family who has the opportunity to be defined as something other than property.
Later, she's an outcast because her second husband's "big voice" and quest for power in the all black community of Eatonville comes to be identified with the white masters of days gone by, and Janie comes to be seen in the role of the Southern plantation "mistress." In addition, Hurston explores the repression of women in a patriarchal society.
Characterful expressions burst from its pages; the syncopated, lively dialogue of the black people of the day is lush and gorgeous to read.But please don't accept my effusive review as a recommendation.
It is dialogue heavy and at times I felt I was reading a theatre script, rather than a novel.
This white English/Irish guy had no problem whatsoever and, in fact, the person whose review inspired me to read this (@Lisa) is Swedish and she clearly had no difficulty either!Lisa's reviewFor me, the writing was irresistible.
“To meet as far this morning From the world as agreeing With it, you and I Are suddenly what the trees tryTo tell us we are: That their merely being there Means something; that soon We may touch, love, explain.”   Some Trees  by John Ashberry.Janie returns to Eatonville with the sunbeams glowing on her shoulders giving her the appearance of a luminescent and almost unearthly goddess whose bare feet voluptuously caress the dusty road. Women on porches sing a harmonious chorus of gossip and covet
It’s under the shadows of dusk, when languid leaves and elongated branches dance at the tune of ephemeral loves and perennial memories, that Janie discloses her journey in flashbacks and unconsciously intertwines her ultimate search for fulfillment as a woman with the three marriages in her life.From Nanny’s sour aftertaste of slavery that comes with the sustained abuse in the hands of the white master, the debasement inflicted by the mistress and the burden of attaining freedom and not knowing what to do with it, to the subtle division between those with fairer skins and those with darker ones, Zora Neale Hurston elevates Janie’s story to an icon portraying the richness of the Afro-American oral culture and its folkloric dialect, symbolizing the survival of the African spirit after decades of merciless oppression and gratuitous atrocity.
There are two ways to approach this book:1. Enjoy the writing! Take in the dialect and try to put yourself in the atmosphere that is created by Hurston’s fantastic prose and poetry. (Side note: The audio version narrated by Ruby Dee only makes this better)2. While reading, think about this as more of a historical fiction story. Take a moment to read a bit about the South between the Civil War and World War I. How does the end of slavery and the establishment of a free black community in the Sout
With this book, the Hurston couldn’t help but combine poetry with her prose.As I was reading I could not help but think about the climate of the Southern United States at the time of this story.
What is also fascinating is to read about the attitudes within the black community; while we might think that everyone was united in the black community after the Civil War, that was not necessarily the case.If you like historical fiction, stories about American people during different eras, well-written prose combined with well-written poetry, you should check this book out.
Here is Thurston with her main character, Janie, not content with what others have decided for her; she will live her life on her own terms and decide for herself.
Thurston writing in the 30s too, sees a black woman as a human being: she is not content to let her granny or her husband live her life, she "must" live it herself.
There is one thing that Janie allows her lover to do that is horrible, but it is her life and she makes bad decisions sometimes, as do we all.
Like all the other tumbling mud-balls, Janie had tried to show her shine."
After the death of her second husband, Janie chucks social propriety out the window and listens instead to that niggling voice inside that dares her to dream of a better life, even if the person she wants to share that life with is far beneath her on the limiting rungs of social positioning.
Reading it can not help but conjure each person's voice within your head so that, after a while, it's as though you're listening to a radio telecast rather than reading a book.
Ms Hurston's mom and dad, both former slaves, had to be the proudest parents ever.So when she wrote this story about Janie, granddaughter of a former slave, we might expect some huge accomplishments written about this main character.
But Ms. Hurston - always the anthropologist - wrote Janie's story in rural Florida.
My ignorance of history is shameful.As to the story, we see Janie's life plotted out for her by the grandmother who loves her and wants her protected.
If you want to read a classic but are as lazy as I can sometimes be, let Ruby Dee climb into your ears and Zora Hurston crawl into your heart.
A Classic That Hasn't Finished Saying What It Has to Say Seeing Within You More than Before Their Eyes Were Watching God should be more highly revered as an American classic. Italo Calvino defined a "classic" as "a book that has never finished saying what it has to say.” The current racial turmoil brewing in the United States today leaves no doubt that this Zora Neale Hurston classic still hasn't finished saying what it has to say. Ms. Hurston's decision to attain a verisimilitude by using the l
They sat in company with the others in other shanties, their eyes straining against cruel walls and their souls asking if He meant to measure their puny might against His. They seemed to be staring at the dark, but their eyes were watching God.” Another reason for this novel's transcendence is its place in embedding Ms. Hurston in United States history as a (if not the) pioneer in speaking up for, and celebrating the unique voice of, African-American women, especially in the South.
It was about a conference of women who loved the book or something, and one lady just went on and on how Janie is a strong female character, and something about how the Tea Cakes of the world weren't prepared for them.
So, after reading this forward, I went into the book hoping for someone who was this amazing pillar of strength, not some anti man disestablishment type of strength, but someone who at least stood up for themselves.
She made decision after decision leaving me thinking...why, why is this woman seen as strong?edit: teacup = Tea Cake, obviously I did not pay attention to the man's name.
Their Eyes Were Watching God: Zora Neale Hurston's Novel of an Independent Woman"Dat's all right, Pheoby, tell 'em.
I express my gratitude to Members of the goodreads group "On the Southern Literary Trail" for having made Their Eyes Were Watching God by Zora Neale Hurston novel one of our reads for December, 2012.
Their Eyes Were Watching God, First Ed., J.B. Lippincott, 1937Janie Crawford is Hurston's protagonist.
Only after Janie has married Stark does she consider the eroticism of their relationship in the bedroom, believing "from now on until death she was going to have flower dust and springtime sprinkled over everything.
العنصرية منظومة، بنية لها قوانينها الخاصة، وهذا الكتاب ينطلق من أعماق هذه البنية ويقشر طبقاتها؛ عنصرية الأسود ضد الأسود، عنصرية الأسود ضد نفسه، عنصرية الرجل ضد المرأة. عنصرية الملونين ضد السود..أعتقد بأن المؤلفة تعمدت ألا تضمن الرواية نماذج "سيئة" للبيض لكي تشرح، ببساطة، أن الأمر لا يقتضي أن تمسك سوطًا في الحقول لكي تكون عنصريًا. يكفي أن تخضع لهذه المنظومة بكل قوانينها الفعالة إلى درجة الوصول بالسود إلى كره الذات. أحببتُ اللغة. الرواية تبدو محكية أكثر منها مكتوبة، لذا فهي تشبه حوارًا يدور بين امرأتين في مطبخ. والحقيقة أن هذا ما كانته. قراءة ممتعة.
Hurston was not talked about when I was at school and I knew nothing of her or this book before reading the essay, but it was enough to persuade me that I had to read the book.
Smith says "There is no novel I love more", and that kind of hyperbole creates very high expectations, but within a few pages I was drawn in to Hurston's world, with its faithful depictions of the lives, speech patterns, loves, hopes and expectations of a rural poor black cast.
Hurston's heroine Janie is brilliantly realised, and her story is captivating, inspiring and ultimately heartbreaking.
—After publication it was out of print for 30 years.—Dismissed by the male literary establishment.—Harshest criticism coming from black male critics: “No theme, no message, no thought.”—Out of circulation for a second time and brought back into print after petitioning.In her opening comments Mary Helen Washington says she “loved it because it was about a woman who wasn’t pathetic, wasn’t a tragic mulatto, who defied everything that was expected of her, who went off with a man without bothering to divorce the one she left and wasn’t broken, crushed, and then run down.”I can’t decide if it would be better to read these forewords afterwards.
Oh dear, I was just about to start my review by saying how I enjoyed the richness of the language in this novel until my GR friend Michele provided me with this quote from the Encyclopedia of African American Women:--White reviewers, often ignorant of black culture, praised the richness of her language but misunderstood her work and characterized it as simple and unpretentious.Does that condemn me as a white person who is ignorant of black culture?
But I do hope I can be exonerated of the second crime: I would certainly not consider this work to be simple and unpretentious, but rather complex, redolent with symbolism, and encompassing more than just one woman's journey to self-determination.
The chronology at the back of my version remarks drily: August 1973 Alice Walker discovers and marks Hurston's grave.
The speech is not easy to follow initially, but is easy to get the hang of if you persist and is well worth the effort.The story of the life and loves of Janie Crawford; told in her own words and in a strong clear voice.
It is a shame that Hurston did not live long enough to see how appreciated her work would be.
This one has been reviewed to death and I’ve nothing new to add; but the story carried me along and I cared about what happened to Janie.
That may be a little simplistic, but for Janie the price of love was clearly, at times, painful.
This book was so powerful and so beautiful.
I will be haunted by Janie and Tea Cake for awhile.
I first started this in print and was struggling to get into it because I was having trouble with the dialect.
It made me feel like I was just learning to read and I found I was concentrating more on the words than the story but about 25 pages in I switched to the audible version narrated by Ruby Dee and oh my gosh she was amazing.
She brought this story to life for me in ways the printed book never could have.
4.5/5 She had been getting ready for her great journey to the horizons in search of people; it was important to all the world that she should find them and they find her. But she had been whipped like a cur dog, and run off down a back road after things. What do you live for? Love? Security? Money? Hope? There's something to said for any of them in every combination with one another, the melding usually a three of the four legs of a stool that is never quite stable. A great deal of literature is
He is Jody, capable of great things with his ideas of equality, progress, and men, writer of brilliant sociological treatises and powerful indictments of racism at the expense of only a few 'girlfriends in a refrigerator.' Idealistic as it is to argue for that 'only', foolish as it is to dream beyond the Titan of whites and their institutional oppression of blacks, selfish as it that a story grants love and financial stability to a black woman, the unlikeliest of unlikelihoods, here we are.
Here, it is only a single factor in the lives of black people, replete with life, love, every facet of culture from dialect to public life.
This is a book about Janie Crawford—a black woman of “coffee and cream complexion”.
The story reads as one long extended flashback as Janie, in her forties, talks to her best friend Pheoby Watson.
More details about the flood can be found in the well-researched non-fiction book Black Cloud: The Deadly Hurricane of 1928 by Eliot Kleinberg.
I recommend listening to the story rather than reading it.
Books by Hurston and related reading:Their Eyes Were Watching God 4 starsDust Tracks on a Road 3 starsBarracoon: The Story of the Last "Black Cargo" 2 starsBlack Cloud: The Deadly Hurricane of 1928 4 stars
