https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17490.The_Faraway_Tree_Stories
These stories all revolve around the central characters mentioned and their adventures both in the Faraway Tree and in the lands above.
Like I said, simple adventure based stories for kids to grip onto rather than have to wade through the scene and character formation.Enid Blyton wrote these books in the late 1930s and early 1940s so understand that times were a lot different back then.
So, as an adult, don't be critical of the glaring irregularities of life - for example when the kids go to the Faraway Tree in the middle of the night and return early morning and their Mother doesn't really seem to mind.
The kids have found this magical ice-cream vendor who can give you absolutely any flavour you want.
But the smart-ass in the group decides to test the limits of the system, and asks for a sardine ice-cream.
I can still clearly see the picture of the discomfited-looking child holding the cone, with a fish's tail poking out of the scoop of ice-cream.
No doubt the episode resonated with me because I'm also a smart-ass.The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
A small pixie walked up to her.‘Haven't I told you to brush your hair properly for meal-times?’ said Dame Slap, and she slapped the pixie hard.
Twinkle burst into tears.‘And there's Doodle over there with a torn tunic!’ said Dame Slap.
Bessie and Fanny felt nervous, and hoped that their hair and hands and dresses were clean and tidy.But in this and some other modern editions, the corporal punishment – and any sense of threat – has just been silently removed.She frowned.
Twinkle burst into tears.‘And there's Doodle over there with a torn tunic!’ said Dame Snap.
A whopper of a book! Three Enid Blyton Faraway Tree stories in one edition. This series was my favourite as a child. It's magical, imaginative, exciting and scary. I re-read it this year, to my 5 year old son, and he was as enchanted as me. Enid Blyton may well be responsible for me trying to end each chapter of my novels with a cliffhanger - she does it so well and I've lost count of the number of times my son begged me for, 'just one more chapter, mummy!'
I find it hard to find an aspect of the Faraway Tree Stories that I can hate or dislike, these were the stories I begun reading for myself at the age of nine, and ever since I have made a habit of returning to them at least once a year never wanting to forget the magic of the stories and how they became such a large part of my childhood.
Those being just a few of my most loved lands atop the magical Faraway Tree.
Loved these series as a child.
As I got a bit older I used to love reading her other series-The Wishing Chair, Mallory Towers, The Twins of St Clair's, The Secret Seven, The Children of Cherry Tree Farm and my favourite back then, The Famous Five.
Enid Blyton inspired me to read as a young child and to this day I suspect is the reason I love to read.
I found a copy of the Magic Faraway Tree in a hotel library and read it in a few hours, which transported me back to my childhood and the enticing world of Moonface and co.
A truly magical book that I have read way more than just this one time.
I am pretty sure I read it multiple times a year from the first time I got my copy.
It never seemed strange that she didn't notice they would sneak out or that they spent most of their time up an enchanted tree.
Sometimes we all just need a little bit of magic and this book always has a way of giving me what I need.
My copy also has limited pictures, only a few sketches here and there so they find it rather dull.
I love Enid blyton books and even today when I re-read all of her stories, it takes me back to my childhood days <3 which is the only reason re-read them at time. This book in particular was what I borrowed from my school library on purpose so that I could read it at night and when I did, it was as if I was taken back in time back to my sweet carefree childhood days. Loved the stories! Especially moon face and the three kids.
I know Enid is no longer de rigueur.......but without this author my childhood would have been a sad and lonely place, from her stories for young children the wishing chair and come to the circus, to the fabulous famous five, St. clares, and Mallory towers series, this woman encouraged my love of reading which I continue today
They know right away that it is enchanted when they hear the trees murmuring to each other, "wisha-wisha-wisha", and determine to explore it at their first opportunity.
After climbing past all of these doorways, the children come to the top of the tree where there is a ladder up into the clouds.
If you climb through the hole in the clouds, you will be in another land.
But they find they must be careful, as the lands rotate away from the top of the tree and the hole back down may then be inaccessible.
It's like dreaming while you're awake. Maybe at an adult stage, it won't be that enjoyable but read it to your kids or your little sister/brother or just any youngster and you'll be able to understand why they will fall in love with it. It's a great book and it leaves you with nothing but happy thoughts which every child deserves. It's innocent and lovely. It's a dream.
As I kid I would devour any book written by Enid Blyton. I remember my most favourite series is this Faraway series. The concept of a tree taking you off to faraway magical lands is clever, captivating and original. The lands are scary and funny. This was my first introduction to books full of magic. A must read for kids (or people) who like magic!
These were amongst my favourite stories when I was little. The children, Moon Face and Silky go on adventures to different worlds that are at the top of the far away tree. The worlds change frequently and their adventures are delightful. The characters of the tree are brilliant and I can't wait to read these to my son. I think I enjoyed reading them until I was 9 or so.
wonderful set of stories which children in primary school will definitely enjoy. Have fond memories of having these read to me and in turn reading to my younger sibling.
These books are everything a child could ever wish for or dream of.
I also liked the fact that the books reminded me of several of my favorite childhood-stories; they had the crazyness and absurdness of Alice in Wonderland, the cross character from The Voyage of the Dawn Threader and the lessons and wisdom of numerous classic fairytales.
I adored those references.It is very hard for me to rate children's books as these, as I am no longer a child.
But there is not a shadow of doubt in my mind that these books are perfect for children.
Due to financial circumstances the family move to a small cottage close to a large forest.One day they discover a tree which seems larger than the others and decide to climb it, uncovering a host of magical people and creatures that actually live in between the branches in cosy little homes.Over time the children become good friends with them, namely Moon-face and Silky.
They are also to discover that at the top most branch of the tree has a ladder and it reaches into the clouds and into a different land!
Enid Blyton is much beloved in our home.J (5yo boy) - "I love that Enid Blyton's books are always full of surprises and exciting adventures.
And another thing I like is the slippery slip.
I love the characters Joe, Beth, and Franny and dear old Moonface.
I really love them all.
P.S. I think Dame Washalot should have a chute for her water."I (3yo girl) - "I love Joe, Beth, and Franny, and Moonface too and all the magic creatures.
I love it when they go sliding down on the slippery slip and when they go on adventures."
I discovered the Faraway Tree Collection on the suggestion of my husband; they were his favorite books growing up.
There is a scene in the book where the children first see their new home:“Roses hung from the walls—red and white and pink—and honeysuckle was all around the front door.
The children in this story have wonderfully amazing adventures in the Enchanted Wood with Silky as they visit new lands.
I highly recommend The Faraway Tree Collection for anyone who is looking for endearing tales to read to their children or for adults who want to remember the magical times of their own childhood.
I have never met anyone in person who has read even so much as the most famous book in this trilogy 'the faraway tree' these books are amazing and I want more people to read their amazingness.
The characters visit so many strange and wonderful lands and I just love it when they take new people up the tree for the first time and they get to meet everyone.
I read a lot of the famous five and it just doesn't compare.
I think i'm going to go and read it again now because I love it so much.
This is an excellent collection and one that I remember reading as a child.
The story of the book revolves around three children who have discovered the Magic Faraway Tree.
Every day a different land appears at the top of the tree eg.
I think this would be an excellent book for home reading as it is very imaginative and also includes a number of illustrations to aid weaker readers to understand the story.
There are also some moral lessons in the book like the problems with The Land of Take What You Want.
I would recommend this book for Year 3 upwards.
A classic book from an underappreciated author, who is the 5th best selling author world wide, selling over 400 million books. Enid Blyton was writing fantasy stories in the 1940s/50s whilst keeping the morals of the day and without a trace of violence. Where would many of today’s authors be without her? How many of today’s writers were influenced by her as children. An author everyone should become familiar with. Why not make her books bedtime reading with your kids, they won’t miss the violence of today’s writers.
My favourite series as a kid, I adored them. It's a pity really learning about what kind of a hypocrite Enid was concerning her own family and the lies she made up about them. (That her mother died when she hadn't, that her dog was still alive when it died etc) but her books are still very good for young children. They're simple and fun - they take you into a world you WANT to be in. Not just an interesting story - but they take you into this fantastic magical world and really inspire imagination and creativity.
Best book in the WORLD. I love these stories, I want a Faraway Tree. I want weird coloured chickens and exploding toffee. This time round though... In the first book Joe and Co go up the tree and Joe is a bit mean. Nasty streak in that boy. Didn't care for him much, Frannie cries all the time and middle child Beth is the best of the lot. Should never be made into a film unless Tim Burton directs.
My partner read these 3 books as a bedtime story to our 5 year old daughter, with some slick online editing to remove the gender stereotyping present in the book. I found myself looking forward to the bedtime routine, and once the books were all finished there seemed to be a void. I should say my daughter loved them too.
This book is brilliant. Children's fantasy at its' best. I loved listening to the audio tape of this when i was a small child and i love it just as much now. It's just so quirky, fun and magical. Moonface, the saucepan man, silky the fairy, the magical worlds in the cloud at the top of the tree. It's all so enchanting. I think the faraway tree stories are fantastically good fun.
I have read this collection two times, it is an amazing story about the most enchanted tree, named far away tree. Many pixies, wizards n people live there and it has a ladder at the top whith different lands on its top.
happy memories :-)
I loved this book when i was a child! I think without it i wouldnt have such a magic craving personality..
I'm quite sad I've finished this book because I've been reading it slowly for so many years. I love it and will miss it
Among my family's favorite stories. We still talk about the Saucepan Man. Whimsical, full of magic and innocence.
