https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8908.World_War_Z
This book was initially recommended to me by several people in the office and since I love zombies and apocalyptic themes, well, I was pretty excited.
This is a minor gripe, though, and one that can be lived with.A more serious complaint, however, is that this book can be seen as completely lacking any and all dramatic tension that a person (or, me) expects from a survival horror-themed story.
(I realize, though, that it's all a matter of taste, as I know half a dozen people whose views I respect that absolutely loved this book.) :D
And even worse than all this, the author of both is Max Brooks, as in the son of comedy legend Mel Brooks; and if the son of a comedy legend is trawling the literary gutters of gimmicky point-of-purchase humor books, the chances usually are likely that they have nothing of particular interest to say.So what a surprise, then, to read the book myself this month, and realize that it's not a gimmicky throwaway humor book at all, but rather a serious and astute look at the next 50 years of global politics, using a zombie outbreak as a metaphorical stand-in for any of the pervasive challenges facing us as an international culture these days (terrorism, global warming, disease, natural disasters), showing with the precision of a policy analyst just how profoundly the old way of doing things is set to fail in the near future when some of these challenges finally become crises.
Max Brooks tells this story through a series of interviews given by survivors of The Great Panic, or World War Z (the Z stands for Zombie, in case you didn't, you know, put two and two together...).The interviewees come from different parts of the world and they tell their accounts of what happened to them, what they thought when they first heard of what was first referred to as "African Rabies"; what happened when the Great Panic started in their part of the world.
Humanity survived Zombie apacolypse.
So, he publishes the true account of World War Z.Told in a series of vignettes, we listen in on interviews as Brooks travels both the country and the world.
There's a bit of the regular zombie murder mayhem but the story focuses on the human side of things.
Some people lost their minds - succumbing to tree belief  that they have joined the dead.
It feels like I'm next to Max as he interviews the survivors.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
Zombie food.It is this obsessive and weird need to ensure survival during a zombie apocalypse, despite every rational reason to believe that all our efforts are for naught, that has made me the prime candidate and target group of this book.
This book is not about a small group of individuals - it is about a large collection of humanity.
This book is how HUMANITY would survive and deal with a zombie infestation.
Either you "get" the voice of the narratives or you don't.This book was a fascinating, thoughtful read in a field that I'm personally obsessed with.
It reads like books of a similar nature that collect the stories of people who survived World War Two. The scope is huge and impressive.
Quislings ”Yeah, you know, the people that went nutballs and started acting like zombies.” Ok, I’ve read a handful of zombie books, not enough to make myself an expert, but certainly enough to have some background on the lore of a zombie apocalypse.
The word originates from the Norwegian war-time leader Vidkun Quisling, who headed a domestic Nazi collaborationist regime during the Second World War.”The minds of survivors, I’m sure, snapped in all kinds of strange and wonderful and terrifying ways, but unfortunately pretending to be a zombie was a quick way to find yourself...well...dead.
The pseudo-scientific jargon is a poor imitation (my sister, a nurse, tossed aside Brooks' other Zombie manfesto in disgust within the first few pages and this one fairs no better)and there are far too many emotional pauses and descriptive introductions for what amounts to an addendum to a government study of events.
Brooks is obviously a big fan of Israel, as they are the heroes of the day, even going so far as to selflessly save Palestinian refugees (yeah, right)and remnants of South Africa's apartheid system are given a reprieve due to their pragmatism.
Ugh.I won't recommend this book to anyone, even a die hard zombie fan, lest World War Z ruin the genre for them forever.
this whole book takes place after the zombies have already destroyed most of the world and is a collection of the testimonials of hundreds (?) of different characters detailing their experiences with the zombie outbreak, and how they have survived.
it takes into account so many different aspects of post-zombie experience that i never would have considered like what will the actors do now?
so for people like alfonso, who do not enter a room without first considering their escape routes should zombies attack, this could give some interesting perspectives about what may have been overlooked, and provide some good food for thought.
brains are zombie food.
Yeah, there's a loose series of events that defines the book, or the Zombie War, but it's told through interviews with different survivors from different countries.
Each tends to discuss a certain important event, which ends up getting referred to by characters later in the book and often mentioned by the one directly following.It's extremely clever and lets you see how well developed this whole idea is.It's extremely cleverMax Brooks has literally thought of everything when it comes to a war against zombies.
The narrative is unified by the interviewer who visits them and directs parts of their story, but only enough so that we can both enjoy the overarching plot and the survivors' stories.Like the best science fiction the outlandish premise allows us to get a fresh view of real human issues.
There is just enough real tension, both base and topical, to lend it the right aura for a great exercise in modern fantasy/sci fi - it's easily one of the best fantasy/sci fi books set in the modern world I've read in quite some time.The quality of Brooks's book was totally unexpected.
It's too big a story to tell and to be done properly Brooks should have written a door stopper of a novel.That said, he did piece together an interesting scenario: a world where humans have fought back against the zombies and won.
Call me crazy, but if you drop a big 'ole bomb on a zombie hord there aren't going to be many "walking" dead around after that.I suppose this book's format will appeal to some people, as many seem to be OK with what he's done, but it's such a huge disappointment when you were expecting a novel and don't get one.
On the menu tonight:  WORLD WAR Z Amuse BoucheOur rich Tartare à la Homo Sapien will astonish you with its hauntingly familiar flavors, its bright and vivid colors, and the truly gamey taste of terror, tears, and trauma. Fresh kill will never appear so carefully arranged and presented: prepare yourself for a buffet that appeases both the palate and the intellect.AppetizerA surprisingly hearty summer soup: tantalizing hints of summer flavors frozen solid, then slowly re-animated to surprise the u
Fresh kill will never appear so carefully arranged and presented: prepare yourself for a buffet that appeases both the palate and the intellect.AppetizerA surprisingly hearty summer soup: tantalizing hints of summer flavors frozen solid, then slowly re-animated to surprise the unwary diner.
To that end, we offer a buffet of international flavors: taste the crusty unleavened bread of walled Israel, savor the rainbow flavors of a South African duo of rib and grain, relish the fatty riches of Canadian poutine (we understand that Americans will often flee north simply to indulge in this dish!), enjoy a classic sampling of melancholy Japanese swordfish...
ME JUST SIMPLE ZOMBIE BUT NO UNDERSTAND WHY LIVING SO PREJUDICED AGAINST DEAD TOLERATE SUCH HATEFUL 
Never judge a book by its cover, especially if its cover looks too good to be true - I learned that the hard way after spending money on a new copy of World War Z.
The title "World War Z" was cool as heck, the cover had a decayed, vintage kind of look and it said it was about zombies, and since I was a fan of Romero's Living Dead film trilogy, I figured this could be a really exciting book.Big mistake.
World War Z was mostly just ranting and rambling, a sea of unnecessary gore and a lot of choppy filler.
Having just read the most literary of all zombie novels makes one thing clear: haute lit & this particular horror genre simply don't mix.
"WWZ" takes a scatterplot approach to begin to tell what's happened to the world after the zombie apocalypse has transpired.
We get accounts all the way from the very heights of the social echelons (Veep, Army generals...) to the rantings of average civilians (like a woman with a 5 year-old's sensibility, for instance).There is a type of reader out there for this type of narrative.
They will adore the militaristic accounts-- though, admittedly, not my cup of tea.
But the additions to zombie lore are awesome!
Okay then.I was also hoping for more civilian accounts of the zombie war, but unfortunately most of the people who spoke were either in the military, or were scientists or something of that nature.
So they kind of just talked about the military aspects of the war, and while that may be really exciting for some people to read about, it just wasn't for me.I also find it difficult to enjoy a book when the whole time you know how it ends (as this takes place AFTER the war is over).
I wouldn't say this is a bad book, but it just wasn't really enjoyable for me personally.(I listened to this on audiobook, which was a really cool way to experience this book.
It makes for an extremely interesting analysis, because it covers both the personal, private story and the larger, world arc.Ultimately, it was a sobering and satisfying commentary on humanity and the current state of the world.
Underwater environments prove to be the long-term zombie reservoir, presenting unique challenges to world-wide eradication.Minor quibbles include a lack of some of the science behind the outbreak, as well as that of the lone survivors.
Just temper your expectations.In some ways, this was the complete antithesis of Zone One, (review: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...) which examines the zombie post-apocalypse through the individual and humanity's slide downward.
I shouldn't've picked up this novel but I was seduced by shedloads of great reviews on this very site.Although my copy has a front-cover blurb by Simon Pegg, it's his very own great little zom-romcom Shaun of the Dead, plus George Romero's splendid zombie trilogy which Shaun beautifully parodies, plus other movies like 28 Days Later and I Am Legend, and a thousand other post-apocalypse novels and B-movies, and plus NOW the fab series THE WALKING DEAD which I only just discovered, wow, I love it - it's all of these things which cumulatively undermine the not inconsiderable energy and sociopolitical insight of Max Brooks' own version of The War Against the People You Really Hoped You'd Never See Again.
World War Z is mainly fought with TESTOSTERONE!!!This book wanted to be for zombies what THE WIRE is for Baltimore, and for that I give it a crisp military salute and a bag of red tops.
I shall have to sit alone in the library, other readers keeping a wide berth for fear of contagion, but I cannot tell a lie and I stand by my pronouncement: Hi, my name is Amanda and I did not enjoy World War Z.
But this is an entirely different case, for World War Z's fault is not that it's a bad book.
Brooks does an excellent job of realistically portraying this.So, I'll say it again: not a bad book.
Or when I’m walking alone at night and hear a scraping shuffle and a familiar guttural moan, and some cold, rotting fingers fall lazily onto my left shoulder, my immediate reaction is never anything short of an instinctually exclaimed, “ZOMG!”Shudder.So yeah, this rating is no accidental slip of the Apple trackpad; World War Z really is 4-star material.
Instead of presenting a been-there-done-that narrative wherein a group of protagonists fall prey to a zombie epidemic, whose lives change with shifting priorities, whose outlook becomes fundamentally survivalist, and who ultimately learn to cope with their situation and depend on themselves and each other to combat the swarms of undead infesting their world, Max Brooks takes a different tack.
No joke.Anyhoooo (help me, I'm turning into my mother), after I got back from the movie (which was quite entertaining, btw) and picked up the book again, I was all WHAT THE EFF?
Or do watch the movie first, if you have no desire to read a book in which much of it is about the retelling of events, interview style.
If you'd rather just start out your time with people on the run from zombies, I'd gather that the movie is a safer bet.Was this supposed to be a book review?
I made it to page 69 before putting it down with great force--I would have thrown it, except it was a library book.This book is, as advertised, about the global zombie apocalypse as told by the survivors.
It's not worth becoming fond of any of them, and frankly, not very likely either; personalities only go about as far as classing a person as “stupid,” "naive", or “evil,” with the occasional “if only we'd listened to that farsighted man!” The personality that comes through the strongest is the writer, not the in-story journalist who has supposedly compiled the stories, but in fact max brooks.
Well this didn't go as I expected...I love post-apocalyptic books. When I learned after watching the movie that there was a book I couldn't wait to read it! Turns out I was bored and had to skim through the last part...Love the story but hated the format with the "interviews".
I didn’t LOVE it, but liked it a lot more than I expected I would.Here’s the thing:It’s not JUST about an I Am Legend scenario where the world turns into monsters.
MOST of humanity is wiped out.But Brooks’ narrative, told from the shifting perspectives of the survivors in a kind of post-war journalistic oral history novel (patterned after Studs Turkel’s 1984 The Good War), is appealing for it’s plucky spirit and charismatic delivery.
It’s the human element of this that works so well, the near remembrances of the survivors told from their perspectives.I loved that Brooks develops a working vocabulary for the post-war survivors.
I remember seeing the movie of this and thinking "Youins screwed this up big time." I've heard the story of how this particular plot was decided on and rolled my eyes but I still gave it a chance.
half the fun for me was guessing who the sort of familiar voices belonged to (got a few right ).A couple I was impressed by their accent change, Simon Pegg I didn't recognize at all the first time till I listened to the cast list at the end..
not a quick read but worth your time:)I remember having fun tracking down the unabridged version of the audiobook at the time.
I read this book a few years ago - the Zombie Survival Guide was super-hyped so I wanted to check this followup out as soon as it came out.
Brooks did so well in telling it in such a way that it really did feel like non-fiction.One of my favorite parts of the zombie genre is not necessarily the horror and gore, but how the survivors deal with the threat and rebuilding.
The before, during, and after stories in this book are raw and real.
Because of this, this zombie tale will likely appeal to more than just horror fans.Concerning the movie: I enjoyed the movie, but it is barely like the book.
"This book is so good that you might even come back from the dead to read it. " The Zombie Weekly"More satisfying than gnawing on your neighbours leg bone and meatier than the cast of "the Biggest Loser USA". " Moan Magazine"A great insight for any living dead who want to out think the living er living" Corpse Chat"I was so amazed by this i ate my own arm" Ghoul Housekeeping"Settle back with some chips, crack open a skull for a bit of brain dip and enjoy world war z" ZQ Magazine
Zombie stories have been told in many different ways and teach us many different things.
Max Brooks’ World War Z is different from anything you’ve seen or read before.
That’s right, Studs Terkel: the famous, Pulitzer Prize winning oral historian.Terkel’s The Good War and Hard Times, his most famous works, are not traditional nonfiction narratives.
Rather, they are oral histories that collect the stories of a vast web of people, all with differing points of view.
Accordingly, Brooks decides to publish the personal stories – a collection of anecdotes – separately, in order to give readers a sense of how the Zombiegeddon felt.
6.0 Stars. One of my All Time Favorites. This book took the well-worn concept of "the world is being taken over my zombies" and turned it into a global, thriller that looked at both the beginning, middle and end (?) of the struggle from a series of different viewpoints that explore the social, political, environmental and financial effects of such events. Superbly done and I can not conceive of a better standard for the genre. Oh yeah, and it is a real page turner and is NEVER boring.
Brooks's tours the planet, and gathers eyewitness reports from citizens of multiple countries - these range from today's giants to small island nations - and whose roles in the war varied greatly: doctors who saw the first outbreaks, generals who guided their armies in active resistance, and ordinary people who were trying to escape their homes before they turned into their graves.BUT precisely because of its nature it also has a significant drawback: a lack of a single, unifying thread which would connect all the entries into a coherent narrative sequence.
