https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243924.Reflections_in_a_Golden_Eye
An impending sense of dread interlaces the lives of five characters set on an army base in the American South of the 1930s.
Officer Williams performs nocturnal voyeuristic rituals in a state of trance revealing his suppressed fascination for the female sex.Alison Langdon’s mental state is fragile after a traumatic event and is repelled by her husband’s dalliance with Leonora.Worthy of a Tennessee Williams’ play, these excessively temperamental, anomalous and aimless characters drawn in opaque languidness live locked within self-imposed isolation and disguise their torments with overwrought refinement and menacing politeness.
Carson’s indignant father waited all night on the front porch of their Starke Avenue home to greet the Klansman with a loaded shotgun and was disappointed when no one attempted to carry out the threat.Here is the very house and the very porchThis novel is a novella – 124 large font pages – stuffed with lurid characters and incidents including one which some readers will find most upsetting – a man shoves a live kitten into a mail box – and it was written when Carson was 23.In fact she had a career quite similar to some notable musicians from the 1960s who did almost everything before the age of 30 and kind of coasted after that.
The idea for the book grew from both a visit she had made as an adolescent to Fort Benning in Georgia and then later her husband's mention of a peeking Tom incident at Fort Bragg in North Carolina.
The characters are strange and you cannot help but wonder how the elements fit together.
For me this is a mystery because you want to figure out what has happened and why and how the people are as they are.It is through McCullers talented writing that you become curious.
I do not think his intonations fit the characters speaking.
I become the characters I write about and I bless the Latin poet Terence who said 'Nothing human is alien to me.'"  declares the author in an interview about this novel.
They are, as described by Captain Pendleton, square pegs trying to fit into round holes, pushed to the fringes of acceptable behaviour by a moralistic society much too concerned with 'normalcy'.
Between predators and prey (Major Langdon and Alison Langdon; Captain Penderton and his wife Leonora), the author interposes a mute witness / observer, an unsophisticated soul who reacts instinctively to life instead of trying to analyze it.
I love the way McCullers's work is overrun with the most vivid queens.
Some closeted, like Lieutenant Penderton here, but others gay and carefree, like Anacleto, Mrs. Langdon's Filipino houseboy.
This is a story of sexual derangement, of what happens when the love impulse is forced underground, in an age when it dare not speak its name.
The novel is in its way almost unutterably sad.
Despite the fact that McCullers has these moments of marginally questionable usage--say, four or five instances where another word choice would have been better--the book is a wonder.
The book holds us in thrall.
Reflections in a Golden Eye starts plainly enough, easing into the lives of a Captain, a Major, their wives and a strange, compulsive observer, a soldier portrayed part innocent child and part insidious interloper.The story plays out calmly but at times is like a feverish dream full of nervous, fearful, desiring creatures - a mix of human and animal impressions adding to the overall surreal quality.
Rating this one high because although it is told distantly, the characters are as memorable as those in the more popular works The Ballad of the Sad Cafe & The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.31/12/2012: this reading was very different from the first, I noticed how simple the prose is compared to Member of the Wedding, which has become my favourite McCullers novel.
O capitão Penderton, a mulher Leonora e o soldado Williams; o major Langdon, a mulher Alison e o cri
A novella set in an army camp in the US south, presumably around 1940, when it was written, though it felt more like the 50s or 60s. It concerns six characters (two officer couples, a servant and a conscript), each with an obsession with one of the others. Unlike some of her books, race barely comes into it, but rank and sexuality do. It's slow, painful, a little weird and beautiful. As with all her writing, there are literal and more metaphorical lyrical aspects to the writing (reflecting her musical training).
3,5"La mente es como un tapiz ricamente tejido, en el cual los colores provienen de las experiencias de los sentidos y el diseño está trazado por las circunvoluciones del cerebro. La mente del soldado Williams era una mezcla de colores y tonos extraños, pero no tenía trazado alguno, carecía de forma" Leído para la lectura Conjunta que realizamos Laura y Nuria de la novela, #LCReflejosSigo con McCullers después de leer esa impresionante pieza literaria llamada   El corazón es un cazador solitari
La amplia cantidad de los temas de McCullers en TODAS sus historias, pero especialmente en esta que estoy reseñando, la yergue por encima de muchas otros autores que se centran únicamente en uno; en ocasiones tal es la ansia de convencernos que lo que dicen está bien que lo que nos cuentan suena más a panfleto feminista o LGBT que otra cosa.
No es una preciosa historia de amor porque no estamos ante un precedente de una novela de Sparks o uno de estos libros escritos con la maquina de escribir más infesta de Mordor, no, estamos ante Lula Carson McCullers, y aunque a algunos tíos os parezca raro esta señora no escribe sobre romances baratos típicos de revista folletinera como afirmáis que todas las mujeres que escribimos hacemos.
Instead, she tried and failed, and somehow that is even more fitting.I don't know if I've ever read anyone who has a both flatter and bleaker view of people.
She writes about her subjects as if she were an entomologist and they were just so many beetles that she could skewer with pins and affix to the page.And then, in the midst of all this, there is one extraordinary scene of a near suicidal ride on a horse through a forest.
Kitabı da Carson McCullers'ın anlatımını da sevdim; fakat yayımlanan diğer kitaplarının baskısı yok şu an sanırım. Dilerim en kısa zamanda yeni baskılarını yayımlarlar.
Questo breve libro racconta di un “luogo noioso”, di cinque persone che vi abitano e del tipo di rapporto che esse intrattengono con i “tre problemi fondamentali dell’esistenza: la vita in sé, la morte e la sessualità”.
Con un’obiettività feroce, che esclude volutamente qualsiasi forma di giudizio, McCullers tiene il suo occhio – che mi piace immaginare azzurro come quello del capitano Penderton - ben aperto e fisso sull’ordinario abisso di queste persone folli, banali, bizzarre, tormentate, annoiate, imprigionate nelle loro vite come in gabbie invisibili.
La scrittura è precisa e tesse la sua trama senza incertezze.
Con poche frasi riesce ad evocare un mondo, un inferno, un desiderio.
Then I realized it was full of spoilers anyway, so here’s my abbreviated take-away from this dynamite book:“‘You mean,’ Captain Penderton said, ‘that any fulfillment obtained at the expense of normalcy is wrong, and should not be allowed to bring happiness.
But, as many others have said long before me, in the hands of Carson McCullers, it all works.
You sense a catastrophic ending from the very beginning of this book and so, like rubbernecking past a terrible accident on the interstate, you cannot pull your eyes away.
4.5 stars, rounded down only because the ending, for me at least, was too abrupt and somewhat anticlimactic after all the tension and foreshadowing.
Ne bunalım bir kitaptı böyle. Anormal duygular, ruh hastaları, bilmem neler. Ay ay ay.
What follows is the rest of the review as it was posted in 2013:]So, to pen any kind of decent review, can I even remember very much about this Southern gothic chamber piece featuring three mainly sexually repressed adults, one nympho, a flaming Filipino houseboy and a cipher-like army private interloper who unwittingly brings this hormonal pot to a boil?
I imagine the movie is quite a sight (having inadvertently gotten the movie tie-in edition has me thinking in cinematic terms more than ever), but when it comes to creative works, there are certain ones which I will see in film but not in print, those which are of the vice versa, and the rare bird that does well in both.
In reading terms, my love affair with Carson McCullers has reached a lull, as it seems every book from THiaLH on has increasingly not measured up until finally this last work doesn't even surface above the 3.5 star mark.
3,5 en realidad.
Do you ever read a novel and love it because you are thinking all the way through, “these people are just like me.
Carson just knows how to put her finger on those people in a way that few authors can.”You mean,” Captain Penderton said, “that any fulfilment obtained at the expense of normalcy is wrong, and should not be allowed to bring happiness.
The individual is born into this world alone and goes out of it the same way...with mostly loneliness in between.Carson McCullers is without a doubt one of the best novelist of our age.
Ήθελα να γνωρίσω και αυτήν την μεγάλη Αμερικανίδα συγγραφέα, που είναι από τις πιο γνωστές γυναίκες συγγραφείς στο είδος του Southern Gothic (το οποίο μου αρέσει πολύ), όμως δεν βρήκα τα "Η καρδιά κυνηγάει μονάχη" και "Η μπαλάντα του λυπημένου καφενείου", που φαίνονται τα πιο ενδιαφέροντα, αλλά αυτό εδώ το μικρό μυθιστόρημα (ή μεγάλη νουβέλα), που έτυχε να μου κοστίσει μονάχα μισό ευρώ.
Το μόνο σίγουρο είναι ότι θα διαβάσω και άλλα βιβλία της ΜακΚάλερς, ελπίζω μόνο να βρω αυτά τα δυο που ανέφερα στην αρχή.Υ.Γ.
I love McCullers's minimalist writing style.I did not love Reflections in a Golden Eye.It seems like a good story - a true love-triangle.
Maybe love-trapezoid.) Taking place on an Army base in the American South we have Captain Penderton and his wife, Leonora, and Major Langdon, his sickly wife, Alison, and their houseboy, Anacleto.
Then there's Private Williams who once saw Leonora nekkid and has become a bit obsessed with her.
Turns out that Captain Penderton has a bit of a crush of his own, but not any of the obvious choices.For some reason the story never quite gelled for me.
I know that everybody likes The Heart is a Lonely Hunter but this small strange book is the proof of her writing chops, this book has everything.
A uptight army higher up with repressed gay desires who put a cat in the mailbox, a stupid wife who don't even bother to hide her affair with her husband's army coworker who in turn has a mentally unbalanced wife cut off her nipples with garden shears An houseboy who couldn't be in the closet even if he wanted to.
What a crew!
this book is a look into the damaged psyche.
Apparently this means she has problems writing, counting, and in social situations - but otherwise I'm not entirely sure what's going on with that....Nope, I don't care that Captain Penderton "had never known real love" as a child, I still don't like the man....Captain Penderton has an incident with his wife's horse (which is entirely his own fault), and after getting off of it faints, then wakes up and sees (view spoiler)[Private Williams standing against a tree, naked.
And isn't exactly sure why....Alison, the Major's wife, (view spoiler)[dies, and Anacleto disappears.
Narrator regards her as "a little feebleminded" (id.), so a good match for her spouse, apparently: "Like all very stupid people she had a predilection for the gruesome" (69).The current affair is her husband's boss, and it is sufficiently overt that her paramour's wife "cut off the tender nipples of her breasts with the garden shears" (32).
The setting—that dull army post described in the virtuoso opening paragraph—and cast of characters seem conceived to support a more substantial work; at little more than a hundred pages, the book feels hasty, like highlights from a longer book.
The pacing of a longer, deeper book might have set these moments up better.
It must have seemed like pretty hot stuff in 1941, when McCullers published it (perhaps because of the late-'60s film version, you forget how old the actual book is).
Maybe it was just confounding.Well, it's still confounding, even in an era no longer shocked by infidelity or homosexuality.
Nonetheless I kind of loved this wacko book.
I'm not sure how I feel about this book. I've like almost everything McCullers has written. I only have one more novel to read of hers and I'll have read almost everything. Feels like this book is her weakest though. Her themes are there, just feels like something is missing. Maybe it's because it's about soldiers this time and not really her signature misfits. I still loved her writing.
3'5 ⭐
Neden bu kadar kısa tutmuş anlamış değilim. karakterler, olay hep havada kalmış. halbuki keyifle okuyordum. anlatım ve çeviri çok başarılı yalnız daha uzun olmasını dilerdim.
"Normallik pahasına elde edilen herhangi bir tatmin duygusu yanlış ve bu duygunun mutluluk getirmesine izin verilmemeli. Kısacası, ahlaksal yönden onurlu olduğu için kare uçlu bir çivinin yuvarlak bir deliği kazıyıp durması ve geleneksele aykırı, kendisine uyacak kare biçimli deliği kullanmaması daha mı iyi?"
Compelling drama, but oddly cold With its short page count, "Reflections in a Golden Eye" is more of a novella than a novel.
What is disappointing about it is that it takes about fifty pages (the majority of the novella) to get involved in the characters and the plot.
This becomes all the more resonant when you consider that "Reflections in a Golden Eye" was written at a time when McCullers' own marriage (to a bisexual soldier) was failing as a result of their homosexual affairs.
Reflections in a Golden Eye has many stylistic similarities to The Heart is a Lonely Hunter, with the town of flawed people replaced by an army post of flawed people, but it’s a lesser work in my eyes because it does not bring its characters to life in the same way.
The action in The Heart is a Lonely Hunter felt, while not to be expected, at least like things that could occur in a small town.
Additionally, the whole tone of Reflections in a Golden Eye is much more one note than The Heart is a Lonely Hunter because it is so dark and depressing.
