https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44158.The_Engagement
Engagement was published in 1933 when Georges Simenon was thirty-years-old, the same age range as when Albert Camus wrote The Stranger, Franz Kafka wrote  Metamorphosis and Jean-Paul Sartre wrote Nausea.
Georges Simenon is best known for all his many novels featuring Detective Maigret, sometimes referred to as the French Sherlock Holmes.
Let me take that back - some things do change: when Zola's novel was first published, critics complained the book was too fierce, too brutal, too sordid.
Read all about it in this short existential novel.
A person calling himself "Edward" starting leaving comments on my reviews, particularly my long Charlie Hebdo thread.
Most of Edward's comments didn't make sense, coming across either as extracts from an obscure postmodernist novel (the charitable interpretation) or the deranged ravings of somebody who'd forgotten to take his medication (the uncharitable one).
I still don't know what the truth was concerning Edward, but I thought of him while reading this rather fine little novel.
As the Kafka-like plot unfolded, I began to feel vaguely that perhaps we hadn't been fair to Edward; but I comforted myself with the thought that the accusations were probably justified, and anyway it had only been the web, not real life.
As John Gray stated so aptly in the afterword to this extraordinarily powerful novella, “It is as if Simenon is saying, ‘This is a human life; do not turn away.’ We do not turn away.” Indeed the ending of this intense psychological portrait brought this home with terrific force and poignancy.
And while the story was admittedly somewhat slow to start, it all finally came together in such a masterful way that I was frankly taken aback to discover just how deeply I had grown to care for the bumbling, off-putting, at times even downright repulsive protagonist.
This is exceedingly difficult to do, and while Simenon didn’t quite achieve perfection here, he came close enough to make this an indelibly engaging, affecting read.
Cronologicamente uno dei primi, in assoluto uno dei miglioriPingue, sudaticcio, guance rosee, sguard
Χιτσκοκικη ατμόσφαιρα, καφκικος ο πρωταγωνιστής του Σιμενον, κατηγορείται για έγκλημα που φαίνεται να μην έχει διαπράξει. Πώς η κοινωνία κατασκευάζει εξιλαστήρια θύματα και πόσο αιμοδιψής στέκεται απέναντι σε οποιονδήποτε ανήμπορο να υπερασπιστεί τον εαυτό του. Αυτό διαπραγματευονται οι "αρραβώνες" του κυρίου Ιρ.(και τί τραγικος ο τιτλος του βιβλιου)Κι ένα σχόλιο για την ελληνική πραγματικότητα : η λογοτεχνία εδώ, προλαβαίνει και ξεπερνά τη ζωή.Οι κλοτσιές των νοικοκυραίων της Ομονοιας περιγράφονται γλαφυρά στο τελευταίo κεφάλαιο αυτού του έργου του Σιμενον.
I love how Paris in this book is made up almost entirely of sounds, there are whole passages where a character does nothing but listen to the ambient sounds of the city coming through the thin walls of the apartment complex.
The watcher being watched by watchers, the prey also in pursuit.Nothing profound here, just a really pleasing, well-executed crime story that is and isn't a crime story, and it got me through the morning hours of jury duty, which is all I really asked of it.
Hire must be the murderer, setting this story in motion.
Hire's daily life is scrutinized unceasingly, except at night in the privacy of his apartment, when he watches the beautiful red-haired woman in the apartment across the way.
Hire when one night he realizes she is watching him as well.
Here, Simenon sort of turns the roman policier on its head, and the result is one of the best books I've read in a very, very long time.
نه شوقى واسه ادامه دادن ، نه هيجانى .. به اندازه كافى خوب نبود .
3* Mr Hire's Engagement4* Act of Passion4* Pietr the Latvian (Maigret, #1)3* The Carter of 'La Provi
The tale's finale, we realize, will come a few pages after the novel's end, when hopefully a great wrong will be righted and the bad guys get their comeuppance; in the mean time, what we're left with is a sad injustice.M. Hire is a solitary oddball, a sort of flabbily packed sausage on legs, who lives in a seemingly rather seedy apartment building somewhere in one of the less salubrious regions of Paris.
By the time the combined efforts of the evil-minded concierge, the insouciant, mentally lazy cops and Alice and Emile have stirred up the locals to lynch-mob passions, M.
George Simenon.
***1/2.From the back flap: “On the outskirts of Paris, a prostitute is found murdered in a vacant lot.
Mr. Hire is a convicted pornographer, a peeping Tom, and, once a week, the unlikely star of a Parisian bowling club, where people think he works for the police.
Except that creepy Mr. Hire is in fact an innocent man, whose only mistake is to have fa;;en head-over-heels in love with the wrong girl.
The only reason it didn’t score higher in my estimation was that Simenon provided too many hints as to how it would all end – self spoilers.
Psychological and contradicting, Simenon's Monsieur Hire's Engagement was an outcast's story.
A skin-to-skin dilemma of the flesh; an eye-to-eye exchange of manipulation between Monsieur Hire and his female object.
Simenon was a thrilling story teller and he poked into your psyche that you second guess yourself, hate on all his characters, even the secondary ones, like they were meant to be despised but also bestow them another chance just to prove themselves worthy of such hate.
Sadly, I did not enjoy this novel very much as I made a mistake of seeing Laconte's superb film adaptation together with Sandrine Bonnaire and Michel Blanc's exquisite performances before reading this.
M. Hire is uncomfortable around women, though he has the beginnings of a sick relationship with Alice, the redhead who works at the dairy, and through whose window he likes to peep.The title of Mr Hire's Engagement could refer to the police, who are watching him and about to close in on him, or the neighborhood, which wants to get to him before the police do.
We all know people like M.
Hire: We are vaguely repelled by them and like to imagine gruesome sex crimes that they may or may not commit.
I didn't like any of the characters, partially because none of them had any good qualities and partially because we never really got to know anyone.
And a lot of the things that I know about Mr. Hire I got from the summary on the back of the book.
None of these things were ever actually said in the book, so I'm not sure where the person that wrote the summary got that information from.
I'm just really left with the feeling that I kind of have no idea what just happened, which in this case is not a good thing at all.
Ugh !I never thought I would get done with this thing. It was like sticking pins in my eyeballs, a similar feeling of when I read ' Waiting for Godot '.I saw this film ( Monsieur Hire ) the other week so I figured if I found the film interesting, the book would probably be good too. NOT !I will save you the trouble if I have put you off by now of telling you everything you need to know :grey pieces of paper, a Peeping Tom and breast fondling.You're welcome !
This French novel follows Mr. Hire as he's suspected of murdering a prostitute. Because he's a sketchy, lonely man, detectives follow his every move assuming he's guilty, even though nothing ties him to the crime.He falls in a type of love with a woman across from his flat, and he watches her through the window each night.While the author is famous for simply writing a character's actions and not their motivations, it seemed a bit confusing at times. I never fully understood the woman Alice's personality and some of her choices seemed odd and inconsistent.
Simenon really is an amazing writer, and I still can't get over the fact that I've never read him until discovering Dirty Snow a short time ago. The Engagement is described as a psychological novel, but that's a bit misleading. Simenon doesn't dissect his characters or try to explain their motivations. They just are... with all their quirks and ugliness.Oh! The descriptions of street noises and weather and so-called background are fantastic. No wonder Andrew Gide sang Simenon's praises. My goal is to read everything of his I can get my hands on.
One of Simenon's only "psychological" novels, this was a rather gripping tale of a lonely man that is targeted as a the killer in a recent murder. Keeps you guessing until the end...The interesting thing about his non-detective novels is that they have no fixed sense of right and wrong, there doesn't seem to be "justice" as we see it in conventional mystery novels. Like Paul Auster's New York Trilogy, the ending ends up raising more questions than answering them. It's fun to be so let down by your own expectations and then have to challenge yourself to think.
A brilliant film was made from this book. I like Simenon's novels, not a fan of his policiers. This short novel was not well written, I thought. The notions are fine and finally we get the underlying social problem of incipient anti-semitism revealed (the film did not include that) but the language, in English, was not pleasing. If I live long enough I will read the original and know more.
a compelling page turner completely shorn of metaphoric, allegoric,symbolic, elegant language-i could go on but what's the point. this was the movement of action and behavior. however, simenon's magic is that the characters actions created such a dense atmosphere of isolation, disenchantment and indifference that it has surprisingly held onto me days later and won't let go.
Am I the only one that feels for Mr. Hire? The ending reminds me of Fritz Lang's tragic characters. Also, Bowling!
This is an ice-cold book. No matter how much you dislike the protagonist (and you have to dislike him) what he is put through is the epitome of inhumanity. Distilled noir.
If you liked Camus' "The Stranger," you'd likely enjoy The Engagement. Simenon may be a pioneer in mystery fiction, but "The Stranger" is still a superior work.
Stark, behavioristic crime fiction. Nihilistic without despair, Simenon cast his steady, clinically detached gaze at the suffering of the dispossessed.
A dark, compelling study of an awkward individual from a minority background in a society that is alternately brutal and indifferent. Moody and effective. Patrice Leconte's 1989 film based on the novel is superb as well.
Buồn lắm.
"Anfang der 1930er Jahre in einem Vorort von Paris, Monsieur Hire, Mieter einer Ein-Zimmer-Wohnung, klein, dick und ohne Haare, lebt nach strengen Regeln.
Sie hat ihr Zimmer gegenüber, und ist sich der Spannerbetätigung durchaus bewußt.
Wäre nicht vor kurzem eine Frau auf einem unbebauten Grundstück in der Nähe ermordet worden, niemand würde von Monsieur Hire Notiz nehmen.
.Ein Roman von Simenon ohne Kommissar Maigret?
Wenn man aber nur die Maigret-Romane gewohnt ist, ist ein Umdenken nicht ohne weiteres möglich, man vermißt ihn anfangs schon.
Der Diogenes-Verlag legt jetzt 50 Non-Maigret-Romane neu auf, der Start ist jedenfalls vielversprechend."
Simenon in questo romanzo ci presenta il signor Hire, un uomo piccolo, grasso, solitario e taciturno; il perfetto capro espiatorio per un delitto commesso da poco nelle vicinanze di un villaggio alla periferia di Parigi.
Le ultime pagine sono un nodo in gola.Slegata dal romanzo una frase di Simenon tremendamente efficace nella descrizione degli stati d'animo e delle sensazioni: C'era un'atmosfera da domenica sera, quando ci si sente fiacchi senza aver fatto nulla, invasi da un molle torpore, e i minuti scorrono più lenti che gli altri giorni.
Questa frase, da sola, per me vale quasi il romanzo...
This short novel is an entertaining if slight read, where the eponymous Mr Hire becomes the suspect in a murder case purely because he is in love with a girl who is in a relationship with the real killer, and he wishes to protect her.
His daydream of them becoming a couple is doomed from the start, as it becomes clear she is attempting to frame him for the crime.
It's a short, understated novel about how we fail to establish connections and make too many assumptions about what others are thinking.I would probably have rated it higher if there had been no mention in the author bio of the key final scenes which inspired the novel which Simenon had drawn from a real life experience.
Superb perspective drawn on the hasty reaction of a general working class society, especially those who live out a routine existence and stay ready to embrace suspicion, gossip and slander at the earliest opportunity.
The tearing down of reputations may be seen as an exciting thing when boredom stays the necessary alternative.
This, placed upon another who may be like themselves.Atmospheric in narration.
I personally, love everyday characters sketched out from small fictitious streets, shops and flats.
The Engagement with its setting in France, has plenty of this.
Teaches me splendidly about the harsh reactions of humanity even towards the innocent.
