https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/948638.The_Teacher_from_the_Black_Lagoon
the teacher from the black lagoon is a definitely a book for children. i believe children from pre school to 5th grade would enjoy the book. the book is mostly talking about the different types of teachers in the school. this was a good book with a late of illustration. this book to me wasn't that challenging but reading it to understand what the read is always good
Mia, age 8, loved this book!
Need a last-minute book to read during the first days of a new school year?
Grab one of Thaler's Black Lagoon books.
They saved my life today.Yes, I know, as an elementary librarian, I should have read this series years ago.
Today--crazy day--2nd grade is walking in for their first story time and I am doing the headless chicken routine, so in desperation I grab this book and Miss Nelson is Missing.
Again, yes, I know you should never read a book to a class when you've not previewed it.
I loved this book as a kid. I found that it was humorous and just a excellent book. I love all the illustrations in the book as well as the story line.
My son who is a reluctant reader discovered this series of books while in First Grade. Between First and Second Grade he read every book in this series MANY times!!!!
The first day of school can be as scary as you think, especially when the rumors are circling that this school is filled with monster like creatures.
On this boy’s first day of school, he falls asleep and dreams that he is in the most haunting teachers classroom this year and she is as scary as it comes.
Students might think it’s funny that the little boy thought his teacher was a monster, and who knows, maybe my students thought I was going to be a monster too.
1)Awards: None2) Age Range: Prekindergarten through 3rd grade3) Summary: Mrs. Green is a mean, dragon, fire breathing teacher that scares her class with her antics.
She replaces the globe with a boy's head, shrinks the head of a little girl requesting to go to the nurse.
A young boy dreams this horror, and when he wakes up he discovers that Mrs. Green is actually a nice and beautiful teacher.4) Review: I LOVED this series in 3rd and 4th grade.
I think a lot of students on every grade level can relate as we all hear things about teachers that we discover are exaggerated.
At the end of the story he realizes that he was scared for no reason and his teacher is a nice woman who is happy that he is there.Evaluation: This is a great book that will keep students laughing at every page.
I love the story line and the deeper meaning of the text because it is so relatable.Teaching Idea: I would use this book on the first week of school and discuss how everyone is scared for their first day.
I would also use this book to explain what an exaggeration is and have students point out different ones in the text.
On the first day of school, the boy falls asleep and dreams that he has Mrs. Green.
Luckily for him, he wakes up to see the real Mrs. Green, normal and human like everyone else.This book was a great mystery to me as a kid.
I like the idea behind it.
Everyone has a sense of nervousness on the first day of school, especially at a young age.
This book takes a drastic approach to how kids feel on the first day and shows them that everything is going to be okay.
For this reason, I believe it is a good book.
This was a great read. I have read it before, but today I read it to my kindergarten students. This provides some really great examples of complete sentences and exhibits a range of good vocabulary for students to become familiar with. Also, the action words are great to perform and allows for some interaction with students. They loved the story, the actions, and my questions about what they thought came next for each student. It was a fun read!
A rowdy classroom's teacher goes missing. In return, they get a scary strict substitute teacher. The children begin to worry about what happened to their teacher after she is gone for a long time. They begin to investigate. One day, she returns. The children are thrilled to see her and are considerably more obedient.
1. n/a2. pre-k- 3rd3. This book is about a boy who dreams his teacher as a scary monster. He is nervous about school but after realizing it was just a dream, he feels better about going to school.4. This book was easy to read and very interesting. The pictures were well illustrated and unique.5. Transitions, independent reading, stress about new grade.
This book is a great book for children to read. I think this book is great for the imagination, since it is about a child dreaming. Some children may see things in the classroom that the young child in the book dreams about (which is kind of weird). I think this would help children get over the fear of school as well.
I can't remember when I first read this, but I grabbed it from the library this week because my husband never has and read it to the family. It's still cute, it's still funny, but sadly doesn't hold up as well as I wanted it to. The artwork is adorable and it will definitely please but the ending is unsatisfying. I think picture books have just gotten better since this era.
That escalated quickly. Like really quickly.[Apparently a childhood classic, according to a Buzzfeed listicle, but unfortunately I have never read it until now. Still, better late than never!]
The BL stories are great. My YA readers can not get enough of them. They keep asking me to reread them all the time.
It was pretty good
Delightfully evil. Appropriate for Wayside School fans. Goosebumps. Edward Gorey. That sort of thing.
📀 story
One of my favorite children's books of all time! The story line and illustrations are great. This would be a great read for the first week of school. What a fun and humorous book!
This is great. Creative and you always know the ending will be great. Things are never as bad as they seem. But when you have an imagination...oh boy does it soar.
I think this book is really funny! The illustrations remind me of cartoons when I was a kid. I think that the book keeps you hanging on till the very end.
It's the first day of school, and imaginations run wild as anticipation of who the teacher will be. It's Mrs. Green in Room 109, who is supposedly a real monster, but is she really?
Do not get any of these books it like trying to get into a titanium safe with a feather
The boy in the book was dreaming and he was imagining that Mrs. Green was an alligator. When he woke up, he saw a beautiful Mrs. Green! It was a real person. (Debbie)This book is very interesting. (Linda)The author is a very good writer. (Lina)I think the book is funny. (Leon)I think the pictures are very funny. (Maya)I think when I read this book, I got a little bit excited. (Elaine)Henry: It's very funny, it's a monster teacher who became a real teacher.
In this book the kid dreamed that the teacher was going to be a crazy monkey that made them do hard things in class
This book is about a young boy fears the worst on his first day of school.
After children have an opportunity to view the video, they may discuss why the boy had imagined his teacher might be such a monster and how his monster differed from the real teacher.
I am not sure how this book can be read by beginning readers, but it would be a great book to use for discussion of what they thought school was going to be like on the first day in contrast to how it really was.
3. This book is an account of a young boy going to school, curious as to who he will have as his teacher.
She then tells the class to take a nap at their desk, and the young boy (the only survivor) falls asleep, dreaming about how happy he will be if he makes it to recess, let alone through the day.
Clearly this boy is nervous for his first day back at school, and the rumors he heard about the different teachers led him to have a horrible dream about his teacher really being a monster.
This is a cute and very funny book. I liked the ending.
The Teacher from the Black Lagoon is such a great book and would be perfect to read at the beginning of the school year.
This book is about a little boy who is starting school and is afraid to meet his teacher because he heard rumors of what his teacher Mrs. Green is supposedly like, causing his imagination to run wild.
This book is a creative way to show students how our imagination can get the best of us!
Student could easily relate to this book because most students are always nervous to start school and meet their teachers, especially if they've had bad experiences with teachers before.
