https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/831842.Behind_the_Attic_Wall
Okay so this book has been the hardest book for me to ever remember.
I read this book in 7th grade so I must have been about 12 or 13.
This book was very comforting and live saving for me.
I forgot about the book by 8th grade.
Nonetheless, life didn't get easier and I always found myself drawing strength from the books message.
I searched for this book for 14years.
I couldn't remember the name of the book.
Last night I dreamnt of my great grandfather whom passed away years ago.
The book I've been searching to remember for 14 years of my life.
I can see the movie trailer now:The camera shows the front of a car where an elderly man in a fedora-like hat (Uncle Morris) and a teenage girl of about 12 or 13 (Maggie) are seated.
The setting sun reflects on the windows in such a way as to make the structure look completely abandoned--or like someone could be watching unseen through one of them.Narrator: "What she found was nothing like she expected"Camera cuts to a close-up of the girl's face and the audience hears her thoughts: "It's just another boarding school.
Her Uncle Morris is a wonderful character who is the only friend to Maggie, although doesn't see Maggie often and can't provide the loving parenting she needs.
Uncle Morris does seem to know about the mystery of the story which is what gets Maggie through this difficult time.The story is beautifully written and very moving, I struggled to read parts aloud they were so sad.
The story is very cleverly written, starting forward in time with Maggie looking back, and despite knowing what will happen to Maggie and the title does give you certain clues, what happens in between holds plenty of suprises.The ending is lovely, and despite Maggie's sadness you feel there is much hope, and hope too for others in her position.
[spoiler alert] Sylvia Cassedy's "Behind the Attic Wall," which you would find in the children's books section directed to "older readers," has a number of elements that will be familiar to devotees of classics like "Cindarella," "The Secret Garden," and "The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe." The heroine, an orphan named Maggie, comes to live with her two humorless aunts in an old mansion that used to be a school, now shrouded in mysterious tragedy.
But I ended up liking it all and have much appreciation for how it ended up for all of the characters.
I’ve decided on my own how it ended up in the long run for the main character.
This is a book I’d love to discuss in private with others who’ve read it.
Had I read it at age 9 or 10 I’m certain it would have been one of my favorite books at the time.
Big spoiler not to be read if you think you might read the book but haven’t yet: (view spoiler)[ I was so glad that Maggie didn’t end up staying with Harriet and Lillian.
I have literally been trying to remember the name of this book for decades. It was a beautiful, haunting story that stuck with me. I am seriously overjoyed to have found it!
If you have ever felt unloved, unlovable, and/or unable to love, this is your book. Unforgettable. Thanks for bringing it to my attention again Hilary!
I still remember when I picked out this book in Waldenbooks when I was in the sixth grade. Ah...memories. It is such a beautiful book about an outcast girl who finds friendship and hope when she discovers magical dolls in her aunts' attic. (It is on the cover of the book, so I guess I'm not giving anything away.) The ending is great, and I cry every time. I highly recommend this to anyone.
Let's face it: This book is terrifying.
There are living porcelain dolls living in the attic?
Does everyone in the family who dies become a doll?
Also, the story is a flashback, leaving you with the impression that the narrator has either been adopted or is in a foster home now, which is probably better all around, but there's no indication (that I recall) of whether this is a permanent situation, or how she got there, which is kind of rude.
She's an unhappy child at the beginning, is it really better now?
Such a great book.
But seriously: terrifying.
I read this book about 50 times in elementary school.
I loved ghost stories and mystery books so much, thats all I ever read.
I found this in my school library in a solid dark green hardback cover (I thought it was so mysterious) and then later my mom ordered the paperback for my birthday.Behind the Attic Wall is magical and sad, about being accepted and needed.
I guess feeling like the black sheep of the family, I identified with stories about misunderstood children who were often left to play alone.
Reviewed by Rusty Key Writer: Becca WorthingtonRecommended for: Girls, Ages 8 and up.One Word Summary: Haunting.In children’s literature, there are plenty of touching books about abandoned orphans who are unfailingly candy-sweet despite the great tribulations they have undergone at such a young, tender age.
Her final chance before she’s sent into the orphanage system is Adelphi Hills Academy, a long out of use boarding school for girls now occupied by her rigid great-aunts Harriet and Lillian.
I adored this book, and it's still good, on both the orphan-books and ghost-books fronts.
What a wonderful book.
Just the kind of book I'd have liked as a child and still like.
As I said earlier, the beginning reminded me a lot of  A Secret Garden - a troubled orphan comes to live w/an unknown-to-her relative and creates havoc.
The magic part comes in when she discovers some dolls behind the attic wall.
Her interaction with the dolls, as well as her strange and other worldly conversations with her eccentric Uncle Morris all play a part in Maggie's transformation.
Just started this book- thanks for the wonderful review of it Booklady!
The beginning reminds me of  A Secret Garden.
This is a book that, though evidently geared for a younger audience, is one that many ages could read and still enjoy. Sylvia Cassedy weaves a beautiful tale of mystery in this story, one that keeps you thinking until the very last page. And let me just say that the ending is genius! Even through my second read of the story, I was hooked until the last page, eager to understand the mystery that surrounds 12 year old Maggie, the main character. I recommend that everyone read this book, you won't regret it!
Conceivably my favorite book from childhood. Maggie is a young orphan who finds herself parked with her great-aunts for lack of any closer relations. After being moved around with great frequency, she develops an acidic attitude towards the world, which mellows as she finds new friends behind the attic wall, and learns to deal with the loss of her parents. The prose is fluid, and Maggie is quite believable, as is her great-uncle Morris. Touching and whimsical, yet accurrate and grounded.
This is one of the books that each reader will bring his or her own perceptions to, *even more than most.*I have hidden all the significant spoilers below, but if you've decided you do want to read the book soonish, you probably want to do so before reading my review, so you can have as few preconceptions as possible.__________A GR friend uses the word "fun" and yet I found it so very sad.
(hide spoiler)] I think the great-aunts felt that they were doing their best to do their duty and do right by the child, but other readers seem to think they're evil.
*2.5 - I honestly have really mixed feelings. First, this took me wayyyyy too long to read lol. Second, I felt like pieces of it it were good and then it became boring. Third, I loved the ending(the last paragraph was so good omg). Fourth, this book is really weird and spooky and I liked it and I didn’t at the same time...
I wanted too...and goodness knows I normally really love a good juvie lit hit but wow...it drove me nuts.
That kind of thing drove me nuts.
Really, dolls?
And then they try to give the dolls meaning at the end by implying that the dolls are inhabited by the souls of previous residents and when her lovely wacky uncle (the only character I really liked in the story) dies he becomes a new doll.
I really wanted to get into it but, honestly I feel cheated that I finished the book and thereby wasted so much time reading it.
She trusts Uncle Morris and projects some of her new confidence and his personality into the characters of the dolls, who comfort her in the same way as Uncle Morris.I understand disassociative disorder in children who have suffered abuse and neglect and abandonment, so Maggie is totally believable as a human being.
I don't believe in dolls possessed by ghosts but I do believe Maggie is not a fictional character but a real person!
This all came back to me when I read it out loud to my six-year-old daughter.
Despite the almost gothic premise (an orphan gets sent to live in a former boarding school with her spinster aunts), the book manages to capture so many universal truths about girlhood.
I haven't seen the interior life of a young girl illustrated quite so vividly before: Maggie lives her life inside her head, communicating with "The Backwoods Girls" or imagining--in great detail, with dialogue--how her classmates will react upon meeting her.
She hears voices from inside the walls, and only then does she begin to look outward, peering into locked rooms, creeping up hidden staircases.
Overall, a good story, but it was a little slow for me. It took more than half the book to finally have something happen. I understand the backstory to explain Maggie, who she is, her behavior, her background, etc., but it seemed to drag. I probably would have enjoyed this story much more if I had read it when I was a kid.
This was one of my favourite books when I was a kid. I re-read it many times, though in retrospect I'm not sure why I loved it so much. It's sort of a melancholy book, but maybe that was part of the appeal.
I loved this book as a kid. My mom sent me home with a bunch of my old books recently, and I just took this out and reread it today. Fantastic.
I loved this book when I was in junior high school; Maggie is a character who any kid can relate to and her eerie experiences in the big old house are definitely unforgettable.
The basis is that a young orphan goes to live with her old matron aunts and upon arrival hears mysterious voices in the old house.
The uncle was my favorite character because he was caring and silly, and the main girl Maggie was interesting, as as study of what a lonely girl would think in various situations.
Turns out, it's living talking China dolls.
Who read the same scrap of newspaper over and over again...and appear to be reincarnations of the people who used to live there.
Why didn't Maggie ever bring them anything new to read?
Is Maggie going to become a china-doll if/when she dies?
Maggie withdrawn and still disruptive, slowly starts to adjust to her new living arrangement.
She is to be sent away yet again after only nine months at this location.This was a story with heartfelt emotion, and a fantasy world where you can escape with Maggie, much as any young girl would while playing with her favorite dolls.
I would recommend this book for anyone looking to revisit a childhood fantasy land where dolls have tea parties, spinster Aunts are prim and proper and always teaching you how to be a lady, and you are befriended by an Uncle who never seems to make any sense.
This book was actually pretty great!
It was just spooky enough and well written enough to keep me interested till the very end...and leave me wondering if the dolls were ever really "alive" or if they only came to life in Maggie's imagination.
The end wrapped up sadly, but still perfectly tying everything together just right!book on p 119 "Puck of Puck's Hill" Is it a real book?
I'll find out!I'm reading this purely because one of my favorite librarians told me she loved it as a kid and reread it over and over again.
So far, about chapter 4, I love it!
The sad thing is the first part of the book has developed a character that I don't like.
The author has not developed a person that one can feel sorry for and hope for a better way of life.
Bottom line is I don't care what happens to the main character so why read more.
There are too many good books out there I want to read and will never get too to waste my time on one that is not providing either entertainment nor inspiration nor uplifting nor anything else.
So the outcome of this book has no interest to me so why continue?This is not an author I will look for again.
A loner protagonist and a wonderfully creepy setting made me quite fond of this book a child, though I didn't entirely understand it.
Throughout the book the story gives the sense that it's setting up for something big, but the payoff never really appears.
(view spoiler)[The dolls have been waiting for 'the one,' but why?
I understand that Maggie was meant to be a sort of caretaker, but they seemed to be getting on all right before she appeared.
(hide spoiler)]I spent most of the book anticipating an answer to the mystery, but in the end all I was left with were more questions.
The author is good at sustaining the suspense, the desire to find out what is going on, but my grown up self felt it dragged a bit.
I liked the story ok, and was glad the author didn't end with some "it had a sensible explaination, and there was no magical happening" kind of ending.
I did wish there had been some redemption of her aunts at the end, and a bit more about her new family.
It's suggested she ends up in a good place, but it would have been nice to have more to sustain that assumption.
