https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4504070-red-alert
I began Red Alert knowing it would be a straightforward thriller about mutually assured destruction and that the satire present in Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb, which is based on the book, would not be present.
The book was simply missing the satire.
I found the interactions between the President and the Marshall ridiculous, to the point that I was wondering if maybe the book was supposed to be satirical.
I can easily see why Kubrick felt confident in the success of making his version solely a satire.
Red Alert was just one, albeit one of the earliest, of a number of novels about nuclear holocaust in the 50s and 60s.
Of these books, the Trifecta of nuclear holocaust novels include On The Beach, Alas Babylon, and Fail Safe.
For instance, one particularly tough choice that is taken in both books is trite and over-calculated in Red Alert while the same tough choice exists in Fail Safe as moving and heart-breaking precisely because the authors allow us to become invested in the emotions of the characters.
I would recommend anyone who is interested in this sub-genre to read Fail Safe rather than Red Alert, an interesting failure.
Sorteando la importante cantidad de disgresiones y puntos en común entre libro (drama) y película (comedia), nos encontramos con un par de obras que merecen ser tratadas como un todo, como una única criatura de dos cabezas totalmente distintas. Novela y peli se disfrutan tanto unidas como cada una por separado, presentando una satisfactoria experiencia de sabor agridulce y recomendable para, al menos, una vez en la vida. Reseña completa: http://www.libros-prohibidos.com/pete...
Then Stanley Kubrick bought the rights to the Red Alert, fully intending to turn it into a straight thriller.This was just about the time Kennedy began yapping about the missile gap and Americans were cowering under their beds in fear of Sputnik, and a whole spate of nuclear war films appeared over the course of a few years -- everything from all-star melodramas like On the Beach to AIP drive-in quickies like Panic in Year Zero.
Thirty-one bombers set out to drop their nukes on the Soviet Union, and no one but the general can stop them or communicate with them.
So the reader also wants the Alabama Angel to be shot down before it can complete its mission, because if they succeed, the earth will be destroyed.How does this differ from the movie?
The characters, from the Soviet Ambassador to the crew of the Alabama Angel, are more likeable (at least in my mind).
Red Alert (1958) was a straightforward story in which a war, inaugurated unilaterally by a general applying the principle of pre-emptive defence (an argument which George presents as demonstrating the general's dementia), almost leads to worldwide Holocaust; when the last bomber is shot down, at the last minute, before it can destroy Moscow, the pre-arranged retributive destruction of an American city is averted.
From http://weeksnotice.blogspot.com/2012/...I read Peter Bryant's 1958 novel Red Alert, which was the inspiration for the movie Dr. Strangelove.
The two diverge in very significant ways that ultimately highlight Stanley Kubrick's creative talents, not to mention Peter Sellers'.
Scott's goofy gum chomping general, or the Colonel Bat Guano's constant references to commie "preverts." The novel, in fact, does not have the Doomsday Machine either.
It shows some optimism about how human beings can work together, whereas the Doomsday Machine is out of any human hands.The most important difference between the two is that the serious work had a happy ending and the farcical work ended with the destruction of the planet.Anyway, if you haven't seen Dr. Strangelove, or haven't seen it recently, check it out again, as I did.
If you're looking at reading this book because the Stanley Kubrick black comedy film Dr. Strangelove was based on it, you might want to put it down and go and try to find the novelization of the actual film.
It did come off as a copy of the earlier work (which I have read and watched many times, being one of my favorite films), but the lack of the humor that was in the Kubrick picture made all the characters seem very one-dimensional.
That is all lacking in this novel.If you like cold-war/neo-apocalyptic stories, you might want to give this book a read.
This is the book that "Dr. Strangelove" the classic Stanley Kubrik anti-nuclear film was based on.
However, the book and Fail-Safe were so similar and that there was a film coming out about Fail-Safe at the same time, Kubrik changed it all, like he would with the screen play of 2001: A Space Odyssey.
I got to the part where the mad general shot himself near the end of a US Army Ranger attack against the base.
Which was too short and could have added padding or something of interest besides the bomber and the war room, the whole fight at the base was like three pages.
The internal control procedures within the US hierarchy that allowed the situation at least seem plausible, though one wonders how close it was to reality and how much of that reality George could really have known.Nonetheless, this is both a psychological study and a thought experiment, making it speculative fiction in its true sense, exemplifying how it extends beyond science fiction alone.
This 1958 Cold War novel by British author Peter Bryan George is an amazing example of "nuclear war" literature.
When the novel Fail Safe came out, it was so strikingly similar to Red Alert, that Peter George sued and was granted an out of court settlement.Forget Fail Safe and Dr. Strangelove,and just read this book about a possible war between the USA and the USSR for the great piece of writing that it is.
I'm one of those vets who prefers not to read about war, but this novel piqued my interest, and I'm glad I read it.
Red Alert is a book written in the 1950s in the Cold War period about the US/Soviet stand-off.
This book is played for real.It's not a great book, but a good flashback to the mood of the Cold War. It's interesting that Stanley Kubrick took this book as his starting point.
The logic of General Quinten (General Ripper in the movie) is something deeply rooted in the Cold War. A first strike made sense, within the logic of a death match between the US and the Soviet Union.
The disturbing thing is that, without Strangelove, and without the exaggerations, the logic proceeds to its disastrous conclusion."Gentlemen, you can't fight in here!
Fun, intense readI like the action and the pacing. It's a military thriller and there is tons of jargon. It's written from omniscient pov--not my favorite--but it was used to great effect.
The basis for Dr. Strangelove. Great story. Great warning against nuclear proliferation... and use...
Much more intense than StrangeloveWow! Fast read and hard to stop. Not at all funny. A good study of how important good and open communications are. Current leaders should read.
Each character we're meant to care about is given just enough to care about the stakes, but are left mysterious enough for the reader to truly grasp the feeling of this being a world threatening crisis.Which leads me to my next positive, the stakes.
Once this book gets going, it is rich with page turning detail made possible by it's excellently written action.
Which leads me to my only significant negative with this book, the ending.
Still, it did provide a pretty compelling example of the doctrine of mutually assured destruction, and while it dragged very badly at about a third of the way through, the ending, particularly Alabama Angel's desperate flight, was tense and engaging.I described the men above, as if I could also describe the women, but that is the other thing about Red Alert: there are no women in it.
Sure, the Alabama Angel captain thinks of his girl in Seattle (given a first name and perhaps one line of remembered dialogue); the one person of colour onboard the plane, a Hispanic man, considers his various female conquests (all unnamed).
For those who don't know this 1958 book was the basis for Stanley Kubrick's 1964 movie "Dr. Strangelove: Or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb."However, the book is not at all like the movie.
It covers two hours in which the fate of the world hangs in the balance.A SAC general, dying, decides to launch a pre-emptive strike on Russia to save the United States.
I won't tell you how it ends.Kubrick was mindful of other nuclear apocalypse movies and wanted to do something different so he created a completely satirical movie.
As you probably know (and would have learned from the cover had you not) this book is the basis for "Dr. Strangelove" and, as you may learn from other reviews, provides only the basis, even though a substantial one.
I also read somewhere that the author, Peter Bryant, sued the author of Fail Safe saying it was essentially the same book, and, indeed, it is, but this one is, I think, better simply because it covers three aspects (the war room, the B-52, and the USAF air base) whereas Fail Safe is really only about the hot line.This is a good, quick read and a compelling story.
Even though the book is short, you get to know and care about the characters, which isn't an easy thing to do.
Interesting read, especially when you compare and contrast it to the movie, "Doctor Strangelove", which was based on this novel.
The book is serious, while the movie is darkly satirical.
That, along with the nature of the story (nuclear war) makes for a fairly high state of tension throughout, but it is never sensationalized or over the top.Interestingly, there are a few aspects of the story that reminded me of the movie "Failsafe" -- in particular the ending -- and upon poking around at Wikipedia, I see that the author of this book sued the author of Failsafe for plagiarism (and settled out of court).
The novel that spawned both Dr. Strangelove and Fail-Safe.
This book was an intriguing product of its times: a book from the time before mutually assured destruction was a reality and when a "winnable" nuclear war was a theoretical possibility.
As you'd expect, this made the world a much tenser place; an enemy who thinks he can survive attacking you is more likely to attack than one who knows it would be his death sentence.
Still, I think this material was far better covered in the two films based on this novel than it was by Mr. George himself.
I went back and forth between a 3-star rating and a 4-star and finally settled on 3 when I asked myself if I would ever recommend this book to anyone else and the answer was, "Eh, not really."I picked it up because of an Amazon sale on books upon which famous movies were based.
This one is the foundation for 'Dr. Strangelove' which I have somehow never seen (though I intend to rectify that shortly).
This was an interesting read and a bit hard to rate.
Film geeks will like it (as I did) if only to see the kernel that inspired Dr. Strangelove (who unfortunately does not appear in the book).
It's not great - the writing is a bit stilted, shifting from academic to preachy at times.
What's really interesting is that most of the book (at least the first half) really follows the plot of the movie, but it's written very seriously as opposed to the same story being told in an absurd way with the movie.
I'd really only recommend it to film geeks.
Rather impressed and certainly surprised...especially since I expected a bit more dark humor, based on the treatment the book received in "Dr. Strangelove."Instead, I found the text profound, suspenseful, and thoughtfully written.
The book offers a better overall treatment of themes than the movie, with considerable examination of deterrence theory and targeting strategy.
It's certainly not surprising that the book is better than the movie it inspired, but the narrative and story itself in this instance seems almost radically different between the two.
Personally, I prefer the book...
though Kubrick's satire of nuclear war, prophetic warning wrapping in dark humor, and time-tested story will always remain a classic as well.
Cold War paranoia, nuclear brinksmanship, and the dedication of an American B52 crew intent on completing it's mission regardless of the cost. It's more tense as a novel than Kubrik's film version, Dr. Strangelove: or How I Stopped Worrying and Learned to Love the Bomb. Overall, I think the similar, yet different, Failsafe by Eugene Burdick and Harvey Wheeler was a better book.Reread 28 July 2018: I found myself wondering how an audience raised after the Cold War would respond to this book. It's as terrifying to me today as the first time I read it in the late 1970s.
When it said that "Dr. Strangelove" was based on it, I actually expected it to be more loosely based. Sure, a lot of it is different, but I could definitely see how Dr. Strangelove came out of this book. Well, everything except for Dr. Strangelove himself. But I actually liked that it was MORE militarily accurate. Anyone who loves the movie should still read this. But don't expect it to be the same, just the basis of the movie.
I've been trying to read a lot of the original stories that inspire Kubrick's great films, and came across the inspiration for Dr. Strangelove. While the book has a completely different tone than the movie, I have to say that I was completely taken in by the story. Even though I knew the story, I loved the shifting perspectives and the structure of the story. It kept me on the edge of my seat, and really made me consider the magnitude of consequences for nuclear weapons.
I've put this book up as I just watched the amazing film by Stanely Kubrick called "Dr Strangelove or how i learnt to stop worrying and learned to love the bomb" . The film was loosely based on this book but turned into a comic masterpiece starring peter sellers playing the president of usa , a mad german nuclear scientist and a very upper class RAF pilot . IT's completetly surreal ! if you haven't seen it try and get hold of it !!
This book is stupid. I can see why Kubrick decided to send it up. The idea that the President of the US would willingly let the USSR nuke Atlantic City as a tit-for-tat is absurd (although, as the character Falken said of the same thing happening to Las Vegas in the film "Wargames", it would have been a "fittingly biblical end to the place"). Read it only if you've seen Dr Strangelove first, otherwise it will just seem dumb.
I read this out of curiosity recently, because I like 'Dr. Strangelove'. The book doesn't have the humor of the movie - no conspiracy theories about fluoridation of tap water, and no George C. Scott yelling about 'the Big Board'. It was an interesting read, though, and helped me appreciate the film even more.
