https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36402034-do-androids-dream-of-electric-sheep
Dick's writing and though this is not one of his best, the "Pizza and Sex Rule" applies to him; ie.
The first mistake that a new reader would make is to watch Blade Runner and expect a novelization of that film; it was LOOSELY based upon the book.
It is not an excellent work, as there are gaps and inconsistencies and many loose ends that are never tied in, but the concept and provocation are superb.One element of the book that was completely left out of the film was a sub-plot involving a Christ-like messiah and a faith system based upon what could have been a hoax.
It was almost as if Dick got 150 pages in and then said "awwww screw it...uh, sentence, sentence, sentence, THE END!" Why did there need to be any sort of "love" storyline anyway?
Dick books, I also am one of the few who has never seen Blade Runner.
I'm a little scared to now.I was so convinced I was going to give this one 5 stars while I read the first 100 pages.
Dear Mr. Dick, Thank you for the lovely short story...but what was with all of those extra pages glued in after?
I learned that there are no less than 15 groups attempting to create intelligent android life.Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep was a joyous adventure into mans struggles with ideas such as real vs.
Would they treat their parents better than we treat our own human parents or would they tend to migrate to their own, creating a separate mechanical society?Dicks Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep explores this question and presents one look at how this might work out.If you are a fan of relevant science fiction I would recommend this book.
Rather than attempting to comment on plot or the sequence of events (too wild to synopsize), here are ten ingredients the one and only PKD mixes together in his outlandish science fictional stew: Rick Deckard - the novel’s main character, a bounty hunter on the city police force assigned to track down and destroy human-like androids that have emigrated illegally from Mars.
However, by the end of the novel it becomes clear anyone, human or android, should think twice before putting their life in the hands of a chickenhead.Buster Friendly – Leading TV personality and all-around funny guy who makes announcements and pronouncements on what’s real and what’s fake on topics near and dear to the hearts of the remaining survivors.
You need empathy in order to be in a joke like this, or at least have something people can relate to.""Oh, don't worry", the android replies, "I definitely feel empathy."Relieved, the bartender invites him over to the bar.
He decides he wants more of that beer."Hey bartender!", he shouts, "Come give me a refill, my glass is empathy!"___The title of this edition, "Blade Runner", is very fitting as it shows to which great extent my reading experience tied in to the movie.
And most look very attractive, which helps.That's where the philosophical aspect comes in: What is it that makes us so different from these creations that makes us essentially human?According to society in this book, it's empathy.
Well that was crazy cool!
That's one of the indications we look for.""Then," Miss Luft said, "you must be an android."That stopped him; he stared at her.This is all I could think about when reading.
“Maybe there was once a human who looked like you, and somewhere along the line you killed him and took his place.
Killing (murdering?) androids pays really well and Deckard wants a new animal.
The value of animals and the natural world to the human psyche is firmly established throughout the book.
Raise your hand if you saw my name next to a five star rating and thought you were dreaming.
everything about this book, man, this book, it’s just so...
This book is awesome.
I blew right through them like running a red light.
That’s how this book makes you feel, like you’re speeding in a car and running all the red lights.
If you answered YES to three of those, this is probably the book for you, most likely, surely.
How lucky are we to sit here in our living rooms and bathtubs reading away and enjoying literature at its finest?
Ίσως να είμαι κι εγώ ένα ανθρωποειδές εξελιγμένο μεν αλλά μέχρι ενός σημείου, καθώς δεν κατάφερα να νιώσω ενσυναίσθηση για τους ανθρώπους και τα ζώα που αναφέρονται στην ιστορία.
Τέλος, αφού η γη είναι μια πλανητική σαβούρα γιατί τα ανδροειδή δραπετεύουν απο τον Άρη και έρχονται στη γη που κινδυνεύει η ζωή τους;Οι τεράστιες επιχειρήσεις κατασκευής ανθρωποειδών που στέλνονται σε άλλους πλανήτες γιατί κατοικοεδρεύουν στη γη;Μέσα σε όλη τη ζοφερή θανατερή και πνιγηρή ατμόσφαιρα που επιβιώνουν οι κάτοικοι της γης υπάρχει τοσο αναπτυγμένος πολιτισμός ώστε να υπάρχουν θέατρα και μέγαρα μουσικής;(Ένα ανδροειδές δολοφονήθηκε επειδή τραγουδούσε υπέροχα στην όπερα ανάμεσα σε ανθρώπους).
The protagonist Rick Deckard is a bounty hunter for the San Francisco Police Department whose job is to hunt down and exterminate androids that escaped their life of servitude on Mars to live among humans on Earth in the guise of humans.
His dream is to own a large real animal, but at his salary, he has to settle for the eponymous electric sheep.The questionable morality of hunting down androids is nicely explored here.
Dick books, Dick’s writing style is often criticised as poor or clunky, and his dialogue is often said to be stilted.
with all the phobias and anxieties of the sixties: the third world war, the post-apocalyptic bleakness, nature in the state of the ultimate decline, collapse of ecology, degradation of mankind and the desperate fighting to keep one’s identity.The novel is a cat-and-mouse game but the protagonist stands before the problem of moral choice: whish one is a cat and which one is a mouse?The old man said, “You will be required to do wrong no matter where you go.
It is the basic condition of life, to be required to violate your own identity.
390. Do Androids dream of Electric Sheep? (Blade Runner #1), Philip K. DickDo Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? (retitled Blade Runner: Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? in some later printings) is a science fiction novel by American writer Philip K. Dick, first published in 1968. The novel is set in a post-apocalyptic San Francisco, where Earth's life has been greatly damaged by nuclear global war. Most animal species are endangered or extinct from extreme radiation poisoning, so that owning
Do Androids dream of Electric Sheep?
(Blade Runner #1), Philip K.
DickDo Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
(retitled Blade Runner: Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
in some later printings) is a science fiction novel by American writer Philip K.
هر چند فضای داستان، دنیای فرامدرن آینده است، اما دغدغه‌ ی بحران هویت انسان امروز، در جهان فاقد عشق، هم‌دلی، و آغشته به خشونت، و تهی از بیشتر جلوه‌ هایی که انسان سده پیش، به آن می‌بالید، دستمایه‌ ی اصلی نویسنده است.
آنجا که انسان به انسان بودن خود نیز شک می‌کند.
The one test they have to distinguish these realistic machines is the Voight-Kampff test, an empathy test - because the one difference between humans and androids, they believe, is that the andys are incapable of feeling empathy.When it was first published in 1968, it was set in 1991.
I can understand the human need to kill any rogue andys, and the need to feel superior over another being etc., but why make them so realistic?
And surely the need these rogue andys have to escape their servitude is a clear indication that they have dreams and aspirations like humans do, and therefore some amount of feeling?
One is the novel he wrote in which a police bounty hunter tracks down and destroys androids while he tries to earn enough money to buy a real animal to snap his wife out of a depression.
Rick Deckard is called in after the senior bounty hunter was nearly killed while hunting a group of a new type of android.
In this one, the question is what it means to be human, and the hunt for the androids is used to explore the idea of empathy.
What a surprise!If you've seen the 1982 Blade Runner movie, you already know Deckard is a bounty hunter....works for law enforcement....and has a license to kill rogue androids aka replicants.DO ANDROIDS DREAM OF ELECTRIC SHEEP was the inspiration for the old movie as well as Blade Runner 2049 in theatre's now and is the same in some respects, but without the intensity and violence.
(Word War Terminus) with people trying to survive on a contaminated earth....animals are a rare commodity....and most....those that have passed the test have defected to Mars.Definitely MORE thought provoking than the movie....Definitely NOT the action-packed thriller with brutal fights between bounty hunter and a highly-intelligent & dangerous species of replicant.

Androids that go fugitive are tracked by bounty hunters like Rick Deckard, who works for the San Francisco Police Department "retiring" rogue andys.
Eldon Rosen resists cooperating with Deckard, and insists that the bounty hunter administer the test to his daughter, Rachael, so he can see what a negative looks like before he provides a Nexus-6 to test negative.
Dick novels I've read and a lot of the science fiction of his peers, Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
Maybe a 2.5? I don't know... Honestly, I don't really know how I feel about this book at all. All I know is that I was underwhelmed.I think it just wasn't the right time for me to read this. Maybe in a few years I'll give it another go, because I liked the concept.
Mr. Deckard , has not a very understanding wife and unfriendly too , Iran, calls him inaccurately, a cop, doesn't like her husband's job, the pay is very lucrative though, he tells her.
She spends most of her free time, using the Empathy Box ( the Mood Machines, keep people mostly contended), just turn the two handles and you fuse with Wilbur Mercer and his new religion of Mercerism, "Kill only the Killers ".
Rick has taken over the mission to eliminate the "andys'", because his predecessor Dave Holden, was shot and almost terminated by the new model of robots, Nexus-6, brain units, almost as smart as genuine people.
Mi spingo a dire che è probabilmente uno dei film più importanti mai realizzati.Per me è impossibile parlare dell’uno senza fare riferimento all’altro, senza mettere in comunicazione le due forme d’arte.Rachael (Sean Young), il replicante più umano di un umano.Harrison Ford non aveva bisogno di essere il Blade Runner, ma il film aveva bisogno di lui, che era già stato Ian Solo in Star Wars e Indiana Jones (oltre che alla corte di Francis Ford Coppola in “La conversazione” e “Apocalypse Now”, e last but not least, era già stato il falegname di Joan Didion:I spent a couple of months there in their house, every day.
I'm worried that most people will misunderstand the intelligence behind this book.
I have met a few people who have said, "that book?
Then, read Phillip K.
Dick again, and notice the themes of paranoia, identity crisis, and near-psychotic breakdown while doing one's business in "normal" society.
With _Do Andriods Dream..._ consider that PK Dick is writing in 1968, and that his invention of scheduled moods and Mercerism (a kind of Sisyphisean religion and internet-religion) has more sociological commentary than most so-called literary fiction today.
Le Guin is right: PK Dick is an American Borges.
At least someone read this book after high school.
But it's more than that, it's not excusable in the way that a purely boring book can be.
It seems that when Dick wrote this he didn't have a good grasp on translating his big ideas into an engrossing--or even active story.
Making the exciting mundane is a failing that returns in cause to Truman Capote's characteristically droll critique of On the Road:"That's not writing, that's typing."The amazing thing about Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep and Philip K.
Dick in general is how easily we can excuse his incessant typing for those moments when--as if by chance--writing catches up with him.
the k. in philip K. dick definitely stands for kicked ass. but not philip kick ass dick. i dont know what that means.
It is the basic condition of life, to be required to violate your own identity."Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
Perhaps, he thinks, he'll soon be able to buy a real living animal with his earnings, instead of the electric sheep he owns now.But these are Nexus-6 androids.
In Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, Dick literalized this connection between emotional connectedness and being human by inventing a protagonist who tests humanness through empathy.
If you're someone who just wants to read a great sci-fi book, Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
Although it may be his most commercial work, Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
The book and movie don't entirely match up, but they are both thought-provoking and entertaining in their own right.
Before reading the book, I hadn't understood the title (a significant plot-line in the book which isn't explicitly explored in the movie).
So I guess that's my message for fans of the movie who are wary of reading the book which they've been told is different than the movie; they are both solid and neither experience detracts from the other.
In fact, I'm now a fan of both the novel and the movie!
- You’re surely not suggesting that I could be an android?- Well, let’s look at the evidence. You have no empathy whatsoever….- What? Where is your evidence for this outrageous statement?- Protest all you like, but you can ask anybody. You’re notorious. You’re an empathy free zone. - Wait, I think it’s clear what’s happening here. You are in fact the android, and you have had a false memory implanted into you to make you think you are human.- Not so, you have had a false memory planted in you to
-	You’re surely not suggesting that I could be an android?-	Well, let’s look at the evidence.
As you well know, the standard android test is the Blunt-Lampedrechananian test.-	You have just made that up.
As anyone knows the only test to test a test is--	I have an ostrich.-	I have a squirrel.
-	My ostrich knows you are an android.
-	Your ostrich is an android.
-	Yeah well you’re an android, your squirrel is an android and your mum and your dad were both big fat androids and your sister was the biggest android in town.-	Android.-	Androidyoidyoidy.-	Andyandyandy!
Dick, Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?Top shelf Philip K Dick exploring a tangled web of heavy themes like: what it means to be human, the nature and limits of empathy, love, religion, God, entropy, animals, decay.
I had mistakenly put off this novel because HELL I already saw the movie.
A cliché, certainly I know, but it is spot on with this book.
IT is an android, an artificial sheep of a movie that moves, bellows and behaves perfectly but doesn't have the spark the sizzle or the depth of the novel and IT was a HELLUVA good movie.
Colonies have been established on distant plants, regular space traffic is a matter of fact, as are robots that look identical to humans - even when violently blown apart, at the same time the idea that women might be anything other than receptionists, housewives or secretaries is unimaginable in this story.
Anyway, originally, it was written, Dick wanted to write a great realist novel about American Working Class Life with capital letters.
Dick novel - there vividness is reserved for descriptions of clothing.Ubik and The Man in the High Castle both worked better for me because the illogic of the story ran with the grain of the narrative, here it cuts against it.
It has the smell of that period all over it - everyone "official" in any way has two or three layers of hidden agenda and an impressive repertoire of manipulation technique, there's a whole religious/mystical dimension to the story that's never really explored, and of course everyone's speech includes invented slang (though the film's "skin jobs" has a great deal more reverberance than Dick's more believable but less colorful "andys").
Deckard experiences a serious crisis of conscience when he begins to question his own ability to empathize, and then his ability to avoid empathizing with the andys he must kill.
Our protagonist, Rick Deckard, works as a bounty hunter who ‘retires’ escaped androids, which have become so advanced that they are virtually indistinguishable from humans – differing only, perhaps, in their apparent lack of a single specific emotion: empathy.Two of the most interesting aspects of the book are not really in the film at all.
Reading this as I did in a big three-volume set of Dick's novels, it seemed to mark a natural progression from his earlier books – having undermined the reality of history in The Man in the High Castle, and of subjective experience in The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch, it feels natural that he now turns his destabilising gaze to human nature.
