https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/343.Perfume
أي رأس يحمل ذلك الباتريك على كتفيهأعني ..حقا كيف استطاع انتاج أعجب كائن في تاريخ الأدب الإنساني؟كيف رأه في عقله قبل ان يخطه على الورق..؟كيف نشأ هذا الغرينوي في تلابيب أفكاره...؟هل اشتمه ذات ليلة يا ترى فقرر تحويل عطره الفريد إلى سطور ادبية..؟؟لا يمكن!!فغرينوي لا رائحة لهوهذه هي الطامة الكبرى...غرينوي ولد بصفات غير بشريةيحمل في داخله الأسطورة القديمة ليتيم فقير دميمكرهه الجميع ونفروا منه من اللحظة الأولىحتى أمه-في مشهد من أشنع ما يكونتتخلص منه فور ولادته وهي جالسة على مشنتها العطنة في سوق السمكغر

The fact that this book had blood and murder was just a bonus.For me, perfumes and scents are a visceral thing.
Not all the smells were pleasant, of course, because hello, I did grow up on a farm, but my memories are built upon scent.My love of perfume grew when I was a teen.
Grenouille knew he was not normal, but his obsession for the pursuit of a scent never really gained traction until he committed his first murder, for love of a virgin's scent.
Grenouille knew for certain that unless he possessed this scent, his life would have no meaning.
Because sometimes you just have to read about an 17th century perfumer who may or may not be the Anti Christ and goes on a killing spree, before starting aa giant omnisexual fuckfest and being voluntarily cannabilized. Ah literature. That's why I read you, the class. The class.
“He possessed the power. He held it in his hand. A power stronger than the power of money or the power of terror or the power of death: the invincible power to command the love of mankind. There was only one thing that power could not do: it could not make him able to smell himself.” Perfume is a story about social isolation; it’s a story about not belonging in the world and the negative effects this can wrought on one’s mind. It’s also a story about obsession, a singular pursuit for perfection
It’s also a story about obsession, a singular pursuit for perfection regardless of the costs.
His singular pursuit for his goal is uncompromising and he will stop at nothing to achieve the most perfect of scents.
Innocence is a mighty hard thing to harvest, though it is the missing piece he has been looking for; it will give his perfume the power to inspire love: it will be irresistible.However, as the tale of Icarus taught us, those who fly too high will burn.
I think the story could have been cut back and made tighter and more effective, though I loved the prose and the plot.
Although he is treated as a pariah by many for his condition, he possesses a parallel condition, a heightened sensitivity to aroma.
He is also a cold-hearted sociopath who seizes opportunities where he can to advance his particular desires.
It ends badly for him, but that is a good thing.The author This is a very interesting book.
Until I was done it was an unhappy thing to have to put it down unfinished, due to interruptions like work, sleep and eating.
Perfume is an odd story, perhaps, but also very interesting, providing some payload in depictions of 18th Century Europe and information about aroma in general and perfumery in particular.
جاذبيتهمفي رواية عجيبة , وجرائم فظيعة..ورائحة عطور مختلفةولنقسم الريفيو كما الرواية الي 4 اجزاءالجزء اﻷول----------ومع كل الرائحة الزفرة حوله في دكان السمك، او رائحة باريس العفنه..يولد جرينوي بإعاقة شاذة...فهو بلا رائحة مميزة، بل بلا أي رائحة علي الأطلاق، ليس هذا فحسب بل أن سوء الحظ وشؤمه يقع علي كل من تولي رعايته وهو صغير حتي ينتقل في سن الثامنة للعمل في مدبغ جلود بائس وحتي يصل لعمر الثالثة عشر تتغير حياته عندما يكتشف اجمل عطر التقطته انفه، عطر فتاة جميلة حمراء الشعر ، وقد كلفها شغفه برائحتها عمرها القصير...بينما ظل هو أسير مثل هذا العطر النادرونكتشف أن جرينوي يميز الروائح كلها ببراعة غريبة ويفسرها وحتي قدرته علي الكلام والتسمية تعتبر في احسن احوالها عند ربط المسمي بعطرهوفي الجزء اﻷول ايضا نتعرف علي بالديني العطار صانع الروائح، العجوز والذي سحب منه البساط لصانعوا العطر الجدد وفي الليلة التي ينوي فيها اعتزال العمل نهائيا لشعوره بالعجز لتصنيع عطور جديدة ...
It's just the story of a peculiar boy who became a dangerous and most interesting man.
He was born without an odor, you see, and lacking that part of identity, became obsessed with smell.
That identity crisis triggers philosophical, religious and morbid chords in the book, yet none dominate.
If anything, a dark curiosity dominates it.
The book has a slightly menacing monotone about it that is almost hypnotic, and lays a surreal lens over the brilliant and crisp descriptions Suskind provides for his world.
It's an angry, dangerous little book that baffled literary critics and inspired Nirvana.
However, despite his actions and the way he is described, Suskind cleverly says one thing and shows another, presenting Grenouille as the unquestioned hero of the story, allowing him to come across as, at the very least, sympathetic (if not pitiable), and at most, a man whose single-minded drives and desires leads to the reader outright rooting for him to succeed in his horrific acts.As the subtitle of the book is 'The Story of a Murderer', I don't think it gives anything away to say that the book climaxes in the brutal murders of 25 women that Grenouille uses to create the most perfect smelling perfume the world has ever known.
From the very beginning I did not like the author's writing style and should have known then that this book just wouldn't be for me.This book is set in the mid-1700's France and centers around a horrid man who has no redeeming qualities other than the fact that he has likely the most perfect sense of smell in the history of mankind.
But I just found it to be extremely boring and tiresome.The author obviously did his research relating to all things perfume - the methods involved in it's creation - both chemically and artistically - and the importance of it's purpose in that point in history.
I love descriptive writing - I truly do - but I do also like to have an exciting plot to keep me involved.
No interest though in hunting virgins for their scent thank God. Süskind's novel (which I didn't even realise has been so popular) is Set in 18th century France, and tells the grim story of one Jean-Baptiste Grenouille, a physically and emotionally abused orphan who is blessed with a supernatural gift, the great sense of smell.
His great hope is to create the ideal perfume that will give him the magical essence of identity.
At the moment of his crowning glory, however, Grenouille knows that the aura of identity created by his magic perfume is an illusion, and that it has been hate rather than love that drove him to become a genius of perfuming.
Perfume by Patrick Suskind is such a book.Jean Baptiste Grenouille is "an abominable and gifted personage, in an era which was not lacking in abominable and gifted personages".
For this is his unique gift: the child who does not emit any smell himself is blessed with extraordinary olfactory capabilities, which allows him to recognise, separate and catalogue in his mind all the different odours he comes into contact with.But simple identification is not enough for Jean.
He is driven by the insatiable urge to possess any smell he likes for himself; he will move heaven and earth to extract it from its origin, make a perfume out of it and keep it with him.
The movie "Perfume" makes an utter mockery of this artwork, its incredible language (even in translation) and its profoundly disturbing character.
In this he is far more terrifying than any serial killer or other contrived "evil" character, and the story of his incredible and absurd life leaves one with a deep darkness that takes a long time to dissipate after the novel is closed and shelved or passed on.The movie, as I saw it, conveyed none of this existentially disturbing character, but merely his salient features; i.e., his uncanny ability to smell and dissect smells, and even then can't possibly describe what he senses with the book's vividness and detail.
Perfume: The Story Of A Murderer is simply one of the greatest horror novels ever written.
More a modern descendant of Edgar Allan Poe or Robert Louis Stevenson and other great gothic writers of that period than to most writers working today, Perfume, is a unique, fresh, story of mystery, suspense, and madness.
It's really hard to find good modern gothic fiction, horror or otherwise, that's done with a literate touch from someone that conveys the feeling of actually being there inside a rich, period piece setting.
And to older masters; Edgar Allan Poe, Robert Louis Stevenson, Arthur Machen, M.R. James, Edith Wharton, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Henry James, Sheridan Le Fanu, and Bram Stoker.

على كل من يريد كتابة رواية أن يقرأ هذا الكتاب، عله يتخلص من شيء من بلاهة المؤلفين، رواية عظيمة، بل تقترب من الكمال
Let me begin by telling you that this book is hilarious, and I am mildly obsessed with it.
He lurks in the shadows, is mildly hunchbacked, and sniffs the air like a total freak.
Anyway, as you may know, Perfume is the story of Grenouille, a man born with the ability to smell every little thing in the world, but who has no scent of his own.
Inevitably, he becomes horrified by his own lack of odor and sets out with an enhanced drive to create the ultimate perfume, the source for which he has managed to sniff out and isolate using that incredible nose of his.

Pero qué novela tan interesante ha escrito Patrick Süskind… Este es otro de esos libros que yo veía en los estantes de la librería, o sobre el cual, muchos lectores reseñaban pero que no había tenido yo la oportunidad de leer.Es verdaderamente original y sorprendente la manera en que Süskind crea el personaje de Jean-Baptiste Grenouille.
243. Das Parfum. Die Geschichte eines Mörders, Patrick Süskind = Perfume: The Story of a Murderer, Patrick SuskindPerfume: The Story of a Murderer is a 1985 literary historical fantasy novel (published originally in German as Das Parfum) by German writer Patrick Süskind. The novel explores the sense of smell and its relationship with the emotional meaning that scents may have. The story mainly concerns Jean-Baptiste Grenouille (French for "frog"), an unloved 18th-century French orphan who is bor
Die Geschichte eines Mörders, Patrick Süskind = ‎‬Perfume: The Story of a Murderer, Patrick SuskindPerfume: The Story of a Murderer is a 1985 literary historical fantasy novel (published originally in German as Das Parfum) by German writer Patrick Süskind.
The novel explores the sense of smell and its relationship with the emotional meaning that scents may have.
قرأتها و شاهدتها فيلما ..كاتب متميز فكر خارج الصندوق و أنتج فكرة عجيبه لا أدري من أي مكان جاء بها من تلك الوديان البعيده التي يأتي للشعراء و الكتاب جميعا منها الإلهام ..A master piece ..لطالما احببت الأعمال الفنية اللتي تترك في فمك مذاقا ما ..
فيصرخ و يستيقظ رأيت ذلك الجنون في عينيه و هو يستخلص مكونات سحره , العطر ..انتهيت من قرائتها و من ثم شاهدتها فيلما , كان أفضل مما توقعت من الأفلام ألا تكون بمستوي الروايات دوما ..
العطر ..أنصح بها بشدة , علي مسئوليتي الشخصية :))
قطع قلبي من الحاجات اللي سرحت فيها إنه فكرني بقطتي اللي طول النهار بتشمشم في اي حاجة جديدة تيجي في سكتها :)وسرحت في إزاي لما كنت باشتري عطور من المطارات والمحلات في الأماكن اللي سافرت لها كانوا بيجربوها بالرش على ورقة مستطيلة ويهزوها في الجو قبل ما يناولوهالي ...
وافتكرت النصيحة الجامدة جدا " وانتوا بتعملوا انترفيو شغل وحياتكوا ماتعموا الناس ببرفانكم لأنه لو معجبهمش ممكن يأثر على تقييمهم لكم" :))سرحت في إني بحب ريحة البحر وإن كنت - بعد تفكير- وصلت لفكرة إني ماحبش الإحتفاظ بيها وأحب أشتاق لها :)) وبحب ريحة البن في المحمصة والحبهان في مطبخي واللب الأسمر السخن والكتب ....
If I could only have one word to describe this novel it would have to be "original". What an idea, what a concept Suskind came up with for this story, for this character. Fortunately I have more words available and I have to use them. Words like creepy, disgusting, sick, vile, etc. etc. It's the story of a serial killer in 18th century France. The victims - young girls, virgins. Predictable you say, well not so much. Sherlock Holmes would have struggled solving this case I believe. Very well written, but difficult to read in some parts.4 stars
"I've been trying to write something, but all I can come up with is that it's a weird story about a guy who has an unusually good sense of smell."She stopped, struck by a thought.
"I thought about it quite a lot.""What would it smell like?" she asked, amused.
I wouldn't have thought he had a smell.""Oh, he does!" he said.
People who are reading Kant have a special aroma.""But don't they have to be dead for you to be able to get it?" she asked, raising an eyebrow."That is the main problem," he replied.


شاهدت الفيلم المقتبس عن الرواية أولاً و لم يعجبنيمن وجهة نظري أساء الفيلم للرواية و لم يقدم الشخصية الرئيسية بصورة جيدة أو يشرح دوافعها كما فعلت الروايةبشكل عام رواية رائعة تتناول فكرة جديدة و مبتكرة و لم أشعر بالملل في أى لحظة و أنا أقرأهاوحدها النهاية لم تعجبني و لهذا قيمتها بنجوم أربع فقط
I don’t know what compelled me to finish this book but it was the worst book I’ve ever read.
Furthermore, it takes forever to reach the part of the book where Jean-Baptiste actually starts to murder people because there’s a huge, useless portion of the book dedicated to 10 years of his life when he goes into hiding in a mountain.
not even my worst enemy!!**EDIT: I’m reading my review 11 years later and it makes me laugh.
Although I still don’t like the book and stand by my review I don’t know why my tone sounds so crazy.
Basically, it's an eighteenth-century murder story, except that it doesn't focus on the victims and the hunt for the killer, but rather emphasises the life and times of the murderer, who is an unusual protagonist to say the least.Perfume tells the story of Jean-Baptiste Grenouille, an eighteenth-century Parisian with a unique gift: a prodigiously well-developed olfactory sense which allows him to recognise pretty much any scent or smell.
Suskind does such a great job describing his obsession that you simply keep turning the pages, waiting to see what fate has in store for this horrible yet ever so original murderer.The writing on display is beautiful.
يعتقدون أنهم يشاهدون كل شيء بعيونهم "..أكان شيطاناً ، مسخاً أم شبحاً لانسان؟ جسده الضئيل قد يوحي بذل
This book had me like...Unlike anything I've ever read, but I loved it.
The circumstances of Jean-Baptiste's birth and upbringing were also hilariously awful to me.During the rest of the book my general reaction was this:I wasn't sure if I was gonna be sent straight to hell for rooting for the main character so I tried to keep my opinion out of the general reading process.
(I say this because Jean-Baptiste murders several innocent people and despises every person he meets in the entire story.
Not a role model.)Overall, good book, not for the faint of heart.
