https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95833.M_Butterfly
David Henry Hwang’s masterpiece must be heard to be appreciated — no mere reading of the script can do it justice.
Nor can David Cronenburg’s film version provide a substitute.
With all of the political overtones stripped away, the film M.
Butterfly becomes just another of the freak shows for which Cronenburg is so well known.At its heart, Hwang’s original play reveals how the hubris and ignorance of the West and its preference for the comforting lies of Orientalism over a reality too harsh for the West to bear leads to downfall — in Rene Gallimand’s case, a humiliating political and personal one; in the West’s case, a humiliating political and military loss in the Vietnam War. The parallels are obvious, but in Hwang’s hands, so deftly handled that I would recommend the L.A. Theatre Works edition to everyone.
A play based on a true story about a French diplomat who falls in love with a Chinese actress, only to realize that his exotic butterfly also identifies as male.
Though Gallimard earns little respect in this play, we see how he falls victim to the stereotypes assigned to men and to women, to the East and to the West.I wish I could see this play live.
Butterfly stands out as an undefinable, uncouth, and unique subset of its own.Overall, recommended to someone who enjoys plays of a dramatic yet sometimes dark, comedic nature.
M. Butterfly integrates sexuality, gender, transnationalism, and more, so if any of those topics interest you, I would recommend it.
Your telling me he didn't know he was sleeping with a man for 20 years. Come on! Denial is not a river in Egypt!.
White male privilege will fuck you up!There are a couple awkward lines and sometimes it feels like Hwang is being far too obvious with the themes of the play, not letting the audience work them out for themselves, but overall, M Butterfly is a fascinating study of racial and gender stereotypes in an East vs West battle of sorts.
It's also an interesting puzzle to work out, with both leads providing their subjective view-points of events, distorting the truth to show the fantasies they had created.
Need to see this live. Need it!
Compared to the film, Hwang's play goes much further to make expansive and even pedantic statements about the Orientalism so effectively encapsulated in the story of Madame Butterfly, the tragic story of beautiful Oriental who falls for a Western man: Rene Gallimard: You made me see the beauty of the story, of her death.
Song Liling is a tragic figure as well, a cynical manipulator of Orientalism who comes up with his own fantasy of inverting the Butterfly role and taking up the role of Pinkerton, the selfish and unfaithful Western lover, with his Armani suit and implication of big penis.
M.Butterfly spends a majority of the time focusing on the Western stereotypical perceptions of "the far east" and how that can have an effect in various levels of society.
However, Hwang also touches on a number of issues including Asian perceptions of the West and of course gender biases and the stereotypical ideals we try to embrace.Its all hefty subject matter but Hwang never fails to make it entertaining, absurd and, since told from one characters perspective, full of subjective inaccurancies that question if what is being playing out on stage ever really happened the way it did.
While not an element that is the focus of the play, it only adds to the various levels which this play can be examined.
Here you have your racial stereotypes, your political stereotypes, your gender stereotypes, all coupled in a massive sexual stereotyping for the ages.
A misunderstanding so great and maintained for so long requires a massive amount of explanation, an intro to which the playwright has thankfully provided us at the end of his work.
But the amount of thought and discussion this piece provokes is definitely better than five stars.
It may not require as much digging for meaning as most books, but it will definitely broaden one’s mind in ways that are necessary in this day and age.
This one really confounded me. It details a man having an affair with an opera singer. The catch? The singer is really a man posing as a woman. Now I don't care how dark it is in the bedroom, wouldn't you think the dude would notice the bonus appendage?
This was hilarious to read as an undergrad freshman in a general requirement english class. A great work which some people apparently can't handle.
The twists are so delightful.
This affair between them last for 20 years and people have often speculated whether Bernard truly knew that Song was a man and if so does that make him gay.
The idea of him cheating on his wife and being madly in love with Song brought up emotions and ideas of what it means to be a man to the surface and even the whole embassy knew about the affair and applauded him as though this is what powerful men are supposed to do.One important topic that Hwang brings up is the racism towards Asians and the perception of women.
I really loved this play.
To quote the playwright's notes and the New York Times, May 11, 1986: "A former French diplomat and a Chinese opera singer have been sentenced to six years in jail for spying for China after a two-day trial that traced a story of clandestine love and mistaken sexual identity....
Mr. Bouriscot was accused of passing information to China after he fell in love with a Mr. Shi, whom he believed for twenty years to be a woman".
Suggested by true events but emphatically stated that the play itself is not a factual representation of true events.
If you read this book, and the most insightful thing you can think to add is yet another slack-jawed junkslut "BUT HOW ARE HE NOT KNOW IT MAN?! Peyniss!", then please...Go fucking die somewhere quiet. Or go read Twilight with the rest of your age/reading comprehension group. Or maybe, "How Do Dinosaurs Say Goodnight" might be more your speed.
Poignant and full of unexpected twists. Very beautifully written but just not my cup of tea. I did however, become very attached to the characters and felt their trauma. Would definitely recommend!
There's this interesting sequence in Stephen Fry's The Liar, when the hero, who I think is about 18, is having a frank discussion about sex with another character.
But I think the point of the Stephen Fry story is that there's more diversity in sexual behaviour than we're generally ready to consider.
I'm trying to think if any of them are personal acquaintances, and, you know, I do have a couple of names on my list.
Is there anyone reading this who's willing to admit to having done something sexual that they've never even heard of another person doing?
so my roommate read this play for class and referenced it a couple times, and as soon as she explained what it was i was intrigued.
there is so much going on, like it's obviously challenging certain orientalist tropes and the realities of strange western fantasies,, but also gender dynamics and politics and sexuality and human imagination and delusion.
there were a couple specific scenes where after i finished i would ask my roommate like...
and she would explain her interpretation and it was really interesting and perceptive but like u can look at it from another angle and it's still as meaningful and !!!
I could not have been more wrong.I read this text thanks in part to my Asian American Theater and Performance class, and I am so grateful that I picked up this incredible play as a result.The play reads as an incisive, intersectional critique along the lines of race, gender, gender presentation, queerness, and colonialism delivered in way that the causes the reader to be absorbed and riveted throughout its entirety.
It leaves the reader wondering what is real and what is not, only to discover that it may not really matter.I am reminded of a quote from Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows by J.K. Rowling: Harry: "Tell me one last thing ...
Is this real?
In this essay I will examine only the initial stage directions on page 1 of the play as it relates to the central concepts of Marxist criticism.The play’s first line presents us with the power the state holds over the individual, “M.
In the third paragraph of the opening stage directions of the play, we are shown how Gallimard’s cultural ideology attempts to override that of the dancer’s, “the Chinese opera music dissolves into a Western opera,” (Hwang, 1).
The State, like the play, provides the stage directions for our life and our ideology with which we then must act out.Works CitedBarry, Peter.
It was entertaining - certainly juicy. Funny isn't quite the right word to use, so I'll settle for amusing. I read this for an English assignment, and while I enjoyed it all the way through, it was too short for you to fully understand what happened between Song and Gallimard and their governments. I do, however, want to see this on Broadway.
A well-defined account of character development set against the backdrop of actual events and attitudes.
What's sad is that this play is nearly thirty years old, and yet much of what it has to say about Western perception of the East still holds true.
Hwang makes it clear that we are seeing the world through Gallimard’s eyes but, curiously, Gallimard also acts as an omniscient narrator, frequently breaking down the “fourth wall” between his character and the audience by directly addressing his reader.
Through these actions, it appears that Gallimard is living in a world of his own creation, yet the reality of which it is presented casts uncertainty on Gallimard’s true emotional and mental state.
By presenting his reader with this confusing premise, Hwang succeeds in giving us an accurate depiction of the inner workings of Gallimard’s mind and also an insight into how his character might have been deceived later in the story.
I went into this without expectations, but had I had any they would have been blown out of the water.
I think I said "I'm dead" 11 times during these 93 pagesBut wow
For Graduate School.
Before partially reading Hwang's afterword, and flinging the book across the room in disgust, I thought the semi-botched ending of this otherwise wonderful play was the result of a green playwright being misled by his cleverness into too-strict a parallel between his inspiration - the original Madam Butterfly - and his creation - or, perhaps, that pernicious tendency of writers to equate misery with high seriousness and quality.
Hwang, in his own reading, claims Butterfly is a story about the desolation caused by the illusions projected onto others.
Gallimard doesn't love Song because he can dominate her, he loves her because she both refuses to be dominated and offers it to him.
M. Butterfly / 0-822-20712-5No doubt you've heard the story of the man who was married to another man, but claimed to have mistakenly thought that his "wife" was a woman.
In this incredible drama, Hwang takes this real life story, often distilled into a joke or a bit of trivia, and creates a compelling drama.
He refuses easy answers here, noting that the thing people *really* want to ask is "Did he or didn't he know?" The novelty of the situation shocks us, and we want to hear the details - partly to satisfy a vicarious desire, and partly to reassure ourselves that such deception could not happen to us.However, Hwang turns the question aside as meaningless and points out that the underlying deception - that of a false lover - is one that we've all seen countless times.
An enigmatic and rich retelling of Puccini's Madame Butterfly, David Henry Hwang's M.
Butterfly twists identity (gender, ethnicity, sexuality, nationality, etc.) so thoroughly that the reader/viewer is left with far more questions than answers, but still a quite clear sense of the characters and their individual failings.
Hwang is wise enough to make these characters more than mere symbols for the political entities they inevitably represent, and the staging here (particularly in Song's disrobing scene) is shocking and memorable.
The final scene of the play borders on the melodramatic and unfortunately detracts from all of the rather excellent work that precedes it.
In general, there's a general literalness in Hwang's writing (SARCASM!) that keeps the potential pathos from registering, but it's likely the execution of the humor and the other performance aspects (singing, staging, etc.) probably contribute a lot to the stage play in a way that is not necessarily evident on the page.As a read, M.
Butterfly seems more important as seminal Asian-American agit-prop than as a timeless literature, but its extreme topicality (the Vietnam War seems more its political background than anything having to do with France or China) also adds another historical interest.
