https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/425137.Flags_in_the_Dust
Flags in the Dust: William Faulkner's Creation of Yoknapatawpha County Flags in the Dust, First Ed., Random House, New York, New York (1973) Flags in the Dust was selected as a group read by members of  On the Southern Literary Trail for the month of December, 2014. Special thanks to Trail Member Kirk Smith who nominated this work.    William Faulkner at the University of Virginia, 1957  "No man is himself, he is the sum of his past.” Faulkner in the University, University of Virginia Press, 199
Flags in the Dust: William Faulkner's Creation of Yoknapatawpha County
As everyone experiences at one time or another, I wondered, "What if I had..."Before I left, I went to the Faulkner Room in the John Williams Library on the Campus of the University of Mississippi.
Joseph Blotner,Faulkner: A Biography, two volumes, Random House, New York, 1974.Young Bayard Sartoris returns to Jefferson after World War One. He and his twin brother John had been fighter pilots.
It's good for the soul.EXTRAS!William Faulkner Answers Questions about Sartoris/Flags in the Dust at the University of Virginia, April 28, 1958.
Along the way I learned that the book titled Sartoris was really a publishers' creation and that Flags in the Dust is as close as possible to the book that Faulkner originally submitted to that publisher in 1927.
He fumbled the light switch beside it and mounted, following the cramped turnings cautiously in the dark, to a door set at a difficult angle, and opened it upon a broad, low room with a pitched ceiling, smelling of dust and silence and ancient disused things.
It must be intentional that Bill steadfastly avoids giving the reader the simple plot lines, he is a scene setter and reveals the relationship between characters (in bloodline and in time) in drabs, at first irritating to the reader but ultimately the purpose emerges as the intentionality allows the readers’ brain to absorb what is necessary in its purpose (trust the master, like a great chef, who understands my palette in ways I’ve yet to know) of putting the reader in a state of mind necessary for what is to come.
I can't really do justice on a review of this book, it's been done better elsewhere.
But I will say, even with the suggestions from others (including Faulkner himself) that this is a good one to start with, I really enjoyed reading of the inception of a lot of characters that I have become familiar with in other novels.
I think I'm going to hunt down a family tree of Faulkner characters, print it out and enlarge it, and hang it on my wall.This was an excellent book, marred only by my own failure to give it the attention and reading time it deserved because I was reading it during the Christmas season.
After finishing “Flags in the Dust” you may also want to read the short stories “All the Dead Soldiers” which talks about John Sartoris (young Bayard’s twin) during the war, and “There Was a Queen” which is told from the point of view of Elnora, Miss Jenny’s housekeeper and old Bayard’s secret half-sister), observing Narcissa and her behaviors in relation to the dirty letters from Snopes.
I read them over and over and began saying “I’m a desprate man” whenever possible.This is perhaps my favorite Faulkner novel I’ve read so far.
I think back to how William Faulkner's Flags in the Dust was viewed by a score of publishers as too diffuse to be interesting to the American reading public.
Traditional modes of life are slowly vanishing, particularly in the adulterous relationship that develops between Horace Benbow and Mrs. Belle Mitchell, while Horace's sister Narcissa, like a throwback to the relative calm of an earlier time, finds herself falling in love for the self-destructive young Bayard.
Hell.Probably part of what early publishers disliked about the novel was its broad-spectrum approach encompassing the Black population, rural good-old-boys like the McCallums, and the creepiness of Byron Snopes's pursuit of Narcissa Benbow.
My father has always told me that Flags in the Dust (or Sartoris) is the best introduction to Faulkner, and this new reader agrees.
Faulkner is a local legend, and without having read anything by him, I grew up knowing the names and general personality traits of his recurring characters/ families of his fictional Yoknapatawpha County residents.
It's difficult to find Sartoris now, and I don't know what the differences are, but I was surprised at how much this book reminded me of 100 Years of Solitude, published in 1967.
"— 58 წელს ბალტიმორში ვალსი ვეცეკვე, - და მისი ხმა ისეთი ამაყი და მშვდი იყო, როგორც დროშები მტვერში."ასე გავიცანი:ფრაგმენტულად მოყოლილი ამბებით, წარსულის და აწმყოს ჰარმონიულ ერთობლიობას რომ ქმნის და მომავალს რომ ჩრდილად ეცემა.არაპირდაპირ, ამბების და ერთმანეთის შექმნილი პერსონაჟებით. უცნაური სითბოთი სავსე რომ აკვირდები. და ალბათ, ისე გიყვარდება, თვითონ ავტორს რომ უყვარდა.თუმცა ზოგჯერ განუცდელი, მაგრამ მაინც ახლობელი ემოციებით. თითქოს დიდიხნის მივიწყებულებს ვიღაცამ მტვერი ფრთხილად გადაწმინდაო.ბედნიერება იყო, ბოლო რამდენიმე დღე.
This is the happily-restored full text of Faulky's "Sartoris".
Never having read the truncated version, it's hard to imagine anyone wanting to cut a lick of this fine, quiet novel.
"Flags" was written just prior to "Sound" but you can hardly scent the lyrical, half-poetry that would come to dominate Faulky's style.
That's one of the striking things about his work: he combines a kind of gross, unapologetic, grotesque folkiness with sprawling imagery and beauty.
"Flags" follows, weaving in and out and often without closure, a number of different people in fictional Mississippi but especially the troubled, savage ex-WWI pilot Bayard Sartoris and his self-destructive search for meaning.
Heads up.I am slowly working my way through Faulkner who I fell in love with after reading As I Lay dying in my American Modern Lit class as an undergrad.
Young Bayard returns home from WWI where his brother died.
He comes home to his great Aunt Jenny and Old Bayard, his grandfather.
My favorites were Miss Jenny and Samuel.A lot of people suggested starting with this book if you want to read Faulkner but I can see how he has progressed since the first two.
This somnolent novel is one of Faulkner's earlier works.
The story centers around Miss Jenny, the long-widowed matriarch of the family, her much younger friend Narcissa Benbow, her elderly nephew Bayard, and his grandson Bayard.
Faulkner's prose is beautiful and seductive, making the book a pleasure to read.
My only complaint with the book is that here Faulkner treats his African American characters and their relationships with each other and the white characters in a stereotyped, simplistic, and too often derogatory way.
I don't recall this being the case in the two later novels I've read, so it was kind of surprising as well as disappointing.
I think one of the more powerful aspects of Flags in the Dust is simply Faulkner’s lyrical writing, and the way he examines Yoknapatawpha County and Jefferson, its structure and its principle families and residents.
An underlying theme is the examination of the Sartoris family and its destructive nature, but Flags in the Dust also examines the theme of war’s effects on individuals who come home trying to adjust.
I think that Flags in the Dust is fairly straightforward in terms of narrative in comparison to some of Faulkner’s other works, so it might be a good starting place.
Although not his first novel, 1927’s Flags in the Dust is the best starting place if you really want to read Faulkner. His third novel to be published, at 30 he believed it to be his masterpiece. Unfortunately, Flags was rejected by his publisher who demanded that the nearly 500-page manuscript be significantly edited. Faulkner slaved over his behemoth for months and eventually left the task of pairing it down to his agent, Ben Wasson. The edited version, redubbed   Sartoris , was published in 1
Although not his first novel, 1927’s Flags in the Dust is the best starting place if you really want to read Faulkner.
Unfortunately, Flags was rejected by his publisher who demanded that the nearly 500-page manuscript be significantly edited.
, was published in 1929; as far as Faulkner knew, the original version Flags in the Dust was just something to be written off.
With that attitude, Faulkner began to write a novel that he did not intend on anyone publishing, reading, or even understanding.
.The original manuscript of Flags in the Dust remained out of circulation until it was published in 1973, over a decade after Faulkner's death.
თავიდან ბრაზდები, გულში წუწუნებ – როგორ გააგრძელა ფოლკნერმა სიტყვაო, ერთი სული გაქვს წიგნის ბოლოში გახვიდე და იმ ფაქტსაც იხსენებ, თავის დროზე მწერალს 40 000 სიტყვა რომ ამოაკლებინეს გამომცემლებმა ამ რომანიდან. მაგრამ საკმარისია წაკითხვის შემდეგ რაციონალური, ნაკლებდაძაბული, ჯანსაღი კრიტიკით მიუბრუნდე შესაფასებლად და მაშინვე დაინახავ მის ღირებულებებს. ახალი ამბავი არაა რომ ფოლკნერი არასოდეს უმარტივებს მკითხველს საქმეს. ფოლკნერისეულ ცნობიერების ნაკადში გარკვევა დეტალებისადმი ყურადღებას და ერთმანეთთან დაკავშირებას მოითხოვს. მეც რომ მეტი არ გავაგრძელო, ვიტყოდი, რომ ავტორის შემოქმედების გაცნობა ამ წიგნით არავითარ შემთხვევაში არ უნდა დაიწყო. ამისთვის "ხმაური და მძვინვარება" დაგვიტოვა საბედნიეროდ.
Tip to the wise: read this book first if you are planning to read Faulkner's Snopes trilogy or want a good overview of the Sartoris family, Benbows, and town of Jefferson. Flags in the Dust was the first of Faulkner's books set in Yoknapatawapha County, and it introduces many of the characters that appear in later works. This may be my favorite Faulkner book because it deals with men who are haunted after war, particularly young Bayard Sartoris, whose twin brother, John Sartoris, died in WWI. Recommended.
Really a wonderful book. Those Sartoris fellows were more than a little entertaining. This was the first time I've noticed so much humor in one of Faulkner's novels. Great background information that carries over to his other works. This one also provides a little insight into reasons that the Snopes family was not held in the highest regard. A pleasure from cover to cover!
Old Jenny has to be my favorite character in Faulkner's work and she appears often in this book, usually lamenting the recklessness and abandon of the Sartoris family, especially the men, and how their strongheadedness and pugnaciousness manages to get them killed like John Bayard who got killed in war.It was really interesting to see other sides to Horace Benbow who appeared in other Faulkner novels.
By reading other books, you come across other sides of those familiar characters who are equally lovable and despisable but most importantly....human.
Best Faulkner book I have read to date....hands down.
Flags in the Dust by William FaulknerThis restored version is from the original manuscript and writings of Faulkner, and is the original version of the much truncated novel Sartoris that was published in 1929.
That publisher drastically cut Faulkner's book, saying it was six stories and was too complicated.
This is really the story of the dissolution of a family, and the effects of War in general on impressionable and vulnerable young men.
While not exactly "history", Faulkner's stories are contemporaneously told, and tell the story as it was then.
Whether it is pretty or not, the story is told.
Even Faulkner's other unbelievably depressing families, even the Compsons, can't match the misery that Old Bayard and Young Bayard drag around behind them their entire lives.
He is also a deft world-builder, and a character seemingly useless here will be the root of one more useful later (in this case, weird Byron Snopes) in a Yoknapatawpha book.
So while one might wish, perhaps beg, to read the cut-up edition entitled Sartoris, the additional pages reward you with the deft style and the promise of more to come.
This is Faulkner's third novel.
The result is a strange, artful, and highly overwritten hot mess.
There is barely a sense of character transformation.
There is so much artful description that it becomes almost annoying (however beautiful the prose at times).
You bare witness to an author simply overcome with feelings for a subject.
He had so much to say about his home and he just couldn't contain himself his first time out.
Really, reading the famous Yoknapatawpha County for the first time puts all of his later works into context.I highly recommend this novel as a starting place for anyone interested in Faulkner.

It's hard to focus on the themes of the book when I'm focusing on understanding what is being said.Speaking of themes, there are so many I could touch on.
There is so much to be said about every character Faulkner created, and that doesn't always happen.
I find it very interesting that when Faulkner's characters converse with each other, they all sound like country bumpkins, not very educated, working to put bread on the table, and just getting through the day to day.
Then ending of this book is just so sad, but I guess I shouldn't have expected otherwise given the characters and their behavior.
Es sorprendente cómo cambia la voz de   William FAULKNER  entre  Mosquitoes , su novela anterior y ésta. Aquí podemos leer a un escritor mucho más maduro y seguro de sí mismo, aunque todavía falto de estructura y rigor. La degeneración familiar es uno de los grandes temas de FAULKNER, y aquí realiza su primera incursión en ese campo. La novela es muy ambiciosa, y por eso no me extraña que para la publicación original,  Sartoris , el editor haya hecho tantas simplificaciones. El tema principal es
El tema principal es la historia de la Familia Sartoris, su decadencia a lo largo de tres generaciones, empezando en la época de la Guerra Civil; pero esto solamente es un pretexto para reflexionar sobre los ciclos de destrucción y construcción, la arrogancia, la estratificación social, la huida del destino y los cambios provocados por la Primera Guerra Mundial.Los Sartoris son una familia condenada, encerrados en sus propios mundos; inevitablemente, cada miembro masculino de la familia se encamina hacia la autodestrucción causada por la pasividad de la propia naturaleza individual.
Uno de los temas principales de Flags in the Dust es cómo la interpretación de los hechos que hacen las personas tiene un poder mucho mayor que los hechos mismos.
I'd read a few of his short stories in college, but he was on my list of "literary icons that bore me to death."I polled members of the Goodreads "southern literary" group for "accessible Faulkner" and this title came up.
Sharply drawn characters.
Only two parts are missing: -A discernible story -People you want to be withYes, I get that this is a slow motion tragedy.
I get that old Bayard has either early stage dementia or clinical depression or both, and his own PTSD.
And I feel a theoretical sympathy for these characters.
Faulkner got 150 pages to engage me.
The characters were entertaining, there was a lot of poetic writing, especially when describing the setting of scenes, and the themes were very Faulkneresque.
Many of the characters try to defy or escape the seemingly tragic fates of Sartoris men.
Flags in the Dust is also a more straightforward Faulkner novel, similar to Light In August in its accessibility, which is nice for a change when I don't want to analyze stream of conscience writing.
I recommend Flags in the Dust to Faulkner veterans, as well as newcomers.
It would be a good starting place with its more conventional narrative style and similar themes that echo through his more famous works.
Banderas Sobre el Polvo nos permite ver a un Faulkner maduro que estructura con cada página el esqueleto de la familia Satoris y nos da una gran perspectiva de lo que vendrá en sus obras subsiguientes. Con frases épicas, humor negro en varias páginas y una historia contada desde las perspectivas de todos su protagonistas, el Mississippi toma vida ante nuestros ojos.
Perfect in every way. I love everything by Faulkner, and this is probably my favorite of his novels. Deals with more serious topics than I can list. Yet, the narrative is light hearted and humorous at time, other times profoundly sad.
"Latin American writer Gabriel García Márquez once confessed to patricidal desire, when an interviewer asked him to talk about his relationship to William Faulkner. He said that his mission was not to imitate Faulkner but to kill and destroy him."
Diffuse, but Faulkner no less.
A weirdly unknown book compared to many other Faulkner novels, but not a lesser work by any stretch. A great introduction into the world of Yoknapatawpha County.
