https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1287540.Madeline_s_Christmas
We love Madeline books but this one wasn't as good as the others. The rhyming seemed to struggle and used words that didn't quite work. The storyline didn't really work either and wasn't very christmassy. We couldn't understand why the girls wouldn't be with their families anyway at Christmas.
Well, I finally stumbled upon another “Madeline” book called “Madeline’s Christmas” and boy, was it a true holiday treat to read!In this story, when all the little girls and Miss Clavel ended up being sick on Christmas Eve, it is up to Madeline to take care of everyone.
I also loved the imagery of Madeline herself as she has short red hair and a cute little yellow hat on her head that really defined her appearance.Overall, “Madeline’s Christmas” is a truly beautiful and heartwarming story about the importance of kindness and learning the true meaning of Christmas that I am sure that “Madeline” fans will enjoy reading during Christmas time!
Lovely Madeline story :)
Please, please, please, please, please - if this is the first Madeline book you've picked up please, please, please try another.
(Unless there are more like this and I haven't gotten to them yet.) But I know for a fact there are a good number of really, really wonderful Madeline stories out there.
We've always fell between 'liked very much' and 'loved' with Madeline stories.I had to check the cover and info to see if Bemelmans had even written this.
Some weird story about a man selling rugs.
A man who sells his rugs, gets cold and then gets warmed up by Madeline.
As such, it marks the end of my recent project, in which I undertook to read all the original Madeline books.A brief tale - it is quite short, in comparison to its five predecessors - with full color artwork on every page, Madeline's Christmas opens as our eponymous heroine, the only one in the entire vine-covered Parisian boarding school who is not sick, is working hard to care for her fellow students, and for Miss Clavel.
The CD also had an additional track that explained a little bit more about French customs during Christmastime.I thought it was strange that the story mentioned the little girls being whisked away to join their families for Christmas.
Since we'd never seen the families before in the other stories, I thought these little girls were orphans.
Strange little tale, but then most of the books in this series are a bit bizarre.
Overall, it was an entertaining story with classic illustrations, but what we really enjoyed was the second track of the CD that taught us French Christmas songs.
I love the Madeline books but this one was weird and had less to to with Christmas and more to do with a magician selling rugs. Disappointed.
I grew up thinking that Madeleine was an orphan living in an orphanage! Now I learn that she attends a boarding school.This story is not one of my favorites -- it's overly complicated.
Nicely written Christmas tale.
This book is so weird, and I love it.
No worry, Madeline brings him back to health, and in gratitude he flies the orphans around in the sky on magic carpets, just like I did when I was a child at Christmas!
Then they all land at their parents' homes just in time for the holiday.
So either Madame has kidnapped them, or they return to haunt the families that gave them up for adoption so long ago.
Touching and heartwarming!
To check out my reviews: http://dancinginth3dark.blogspot.comI cannot believe this is the final book of the Madeline series that is written by Ludwig Bemelmans.
While this book was still meh to me I can grasp my way around as to why it's popular.It's Christmas time in Paris and the snow covers everything from the streets to the famous house where Madeline lives.
The author stole some lines from the night before Christmas (You can't trick me for one second buddy!) and in the end I'm glad that I'm done with this series.The other spinoffs of books with Madeline are written by the authors son and while that may seem cool to read and discover more Madeline stories, I am glad that it's other and let me enjoy the classic stories that changed a generation with these books.
My daughter enjoys this book a lot; I do not. In the book the little girls who live at the boarding school meet a magic man that flies them through the sky so they can spend Christmas with their families. This makes me very sad, that without magic these little girls would not spend the holidays with their families. To make it worse, the families are shown celebrating at home with their other children!!!! This made for an interesting conversation with my 4 year old about how I will not send her away to live somewhere else.
Wow. I'm really disappointed in this book.
The text and rhyming was terrible.
In order to make something rhyme, the author changed the order of words so it was very hard to read.
It also didn't have a strong Christmas theme of any kind, so I found myself toward the end of the book saying, did they print the correct story in this cover?
I'm a huge fan of Madeline - I've loved it since I was a little girl, but this book left a lot to be desired.
This will not be an annual book in our house, which I'm really disappointed about.
I always find Madeline's books a little weird, and this was no exception. She buys rugs from a merchant. The girls in the boarding school use them as flying carpets which whisk them to their parents' homes for Christmas. At the beginning, it showed them sad in bed, and my son asked why they were sad and I explained they had colds. Then I realized at the end that it was because they couldn't see their parents for Christmas. (Why weren't they allowed out of the boarding school for CHRISTMAS????)
Sort of uncharacteristic of the Madeline series, and the story ... well, was a little thin. I wouldn't even see it as a holiday book to read, as the connection with Christmas is barely there.
Okay for a Madeline book but just tossing in the word Christmas does not make it a Christmas book.
Ellie read to us :)...krb 12/1/15Jacob picked this one to read..krb 12/9/16
And it's hard for me to think of a time when Madeline (and other famous children's characters) weren't so ubiquitous.I'm not suggesting that Madeline's place in our culture is undeserved.
And I qualify all this because I think that Madeline weren't such an established presence in my childhood and in the childhoods of so many, then I might not have enjoyed the story of Madeline's Christmas as much.
Yet, I think if this wasn't Madeline, if this was some new children's book character, I'd be asking myself, "Wait .
But that is what I was thinking of as I read Madeline's Christmas.
This book wasn’t very Christmasy at all and even went so far as to plagiarize the first four lines of “The Night Before Christmas.” What’s more, the rhyme was forced and horrendous.
For example, “Said she, ‘I’ve cooked a dinner nutritious,/Will you please help me with these dishes?” No one, but no one, says “dinner nutritious,” he/she would say “nutritious dinner.” These books would be so much better without the rhyme scheme.As far as the actual story goes, the rug magician looks like one of the Wise Men (or how I imagine one of the Wise Men may have looked).
So I’m looking for a better series of children’s books with a spunky girl character.
I am trying to keep track of all the books we read to our kids, especially Christmas-themed literature to create some reading traditions for our family each year.I'm assuming that understanding the content of this story is lost in some sort of French-culture traditions that I am not familiar with.
The artwork on the final page, featuring all the kids flying around on magic carpets was, well, interesting.
Not sure what it had to do with Christmas.
But nevertheless, it is a Madeline story that my kids still enjoy listening to, so it'll find it's way into our Christmas reading traditions, I am sure.
This holiday continuation of the little French schoolgirl's story uses rhyming text and a nice story to show us how Madeline helps all of those around her when a spate of illness grips the old house in Paris. Everyone, including Miss Clavell, is stuck in bed with a cold, except for Madeline. She does her best to spread holiday cheer and welcomes an exotic visitor that helps her and her schoolmates have a magical Christmas. Fans of Madeline will like this book, but I still like the original better.
Madeline już zawsze będzie kojarzyła mi się z wieczorynką i chyba właśnie tę wersję będę lubiła najbardziej. "Gwiazdka Madeline" to rymowana książeczka dla dzieci z uroczymi ilustracjami autora. Co się stanie, gdy handlarz latających dywaników wkroczy do świata dwunastu dziewczynek mieszkających w sierocińcu? Czy dokuczliwe przeziębienie zniknie za sprawą czarodziejskich sztuczek a magia okaże się sprzymierzeńcem bohaterek książki?Ta pozycja jest całkiem sympatyczna, ale niestety niczym szczególnym nie wyróżnia się na tle innych świątecznych książek.
Everyone is sick and Madelines taking care of them. When a a rug merchant sells all his rugs to Madeline he regrets it because now he's cold, so he goes back to the house. But when Madeline opens the door he is frozen. She thaws him and gives him medicine. To show his gratitude he uses magic on the rugs to get the girls back to their parents for christmas and back to the school in time for new years.
This is a very cute children's book. I loved the illustrations each is it's own little art piece. I could see these drawings blown up and hanging in a children's room. My sister was in a Madeline's play, so our family is a fan of these books. All in all if you are trying to expand your Christmas books this is a good one to add to your self.
This picture book had a nice rhythm to it that was reminiscent of "The Night Before Christmas." I found the text engaging, and the illustrations were simple, yet they added to the story. Overall it was very charming, but I personally did not connect with the book as much as I had hoped. Regardless, I would recommend this book as a delightful Christmas tale.
Usually save Christmas books for that time of year, but as I was reading these out loud to my 5 year old daughter she wanted to read every Madeline book our library had. While I somehow don't remember these stories as a kid, I've enjoyed experiencing them with my daughter.
Oh my gosh. This book was a total fail. What happened? I love the original Madeline book. I wa so disappointed. I actually stopped in the middle. I just couldn’t keep reading it aloud to my daughter. It was about a magician who casts a spell on the girls. It had nothing to do with Christmas.
the cutest really(also i didn't know the girls are supposed to be pupils not orphans! oh well, 23 years in the wrong no biggie)EDIT: i am in fact an idiot, they obviously went to see their death parents damn me
To me Madeline is a classic. I enjoy it, my daughter enjoys it. This book to me is good but not one of my favorites out of the Madeline books.
So I have always thought that Madeline and the girls were orphans in an orphanage but apparently, they're just in boarding school and they all have families?
