https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140077.Dead_to_the_World
(B) 72% | More than SatisfactoryNotes: Familiar and likable characters make it decent, but there's not much plot. Very static, it didn't add much to the series.
Loving eric and sookie's chemistry! I personally think that bill is a b*tch lol he didnt even know that sookie was trying so hard to pay her bill. And oh yeah remember when
If that doesn’t appeal to you, well, to be perfectly honest, you and I might have a hard time finding something to laugh about together because that tickles my funny bone on so many levels; I can’t even begin to explain.
There are several things going through my head right now in regards to this book:--Eric with amnesia is hot.--I’m not thrilled with the inconsistencies that continually crop up, but I find myself willingly forgiving them because I’m having so much fun with the story.
One example that stood out in this book was a description of shirtless Eric where he didn’t have chest hair.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/NOTE: The Eric gifs are coming, but y’all are gonna have to work for them ; )By the time I reached Book #9 the end of the Sookie Stackhouse series, my reaction was something kinda like this . . .  I (along with many other superfans of the Southern Vampire Series) was extremely disappointed. Not with the “who will Sookie end up with????” part. I mean seriously - DUH when it came to that question. I was bummed that it felt like Harris ha
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/NOTE: The Eric gifs are coming, but y’all are gonna have to work for them ; )By the time I reached Book #9 the end of the Sookie Stackhouse series, my reaction was something kinda like this .
The early books in this series had more than just hot vampires and bangable werewolves .
You gals know how to bring the Eric giffy goods ; ) I’d say I’m going to leave well enough alone and not read any more of this series, but I’ve learned to never say never.
This had everything I love about Sookie and her world.
Practically no Bill, lots of Eric (the hot Viking Sheriff of District Five), Weres, Witches, death, destruction, sex and tons of telepathic Sookie fun.Did I say sex?
You celebrate Vampire naughtiness, then throw in some shape changing naughtiness for good measure, and that's so much more fun to read than the moody, whiny love triangle between a vapid girl, a pissy wolfboy and creepy "vegan" vamp.So thanks for creating your bizarre, but believable world of everyday Supes who're challenging our prejudices by revealing that they've always been among us.
Sookie Stackhouse = Fun. I don't need anything more than that.
Best of the series so far especially when i put faces to these characters from the TV show. this has become a guilty pleasure of mine.

I have continuously heard that this is the "Eric book." From everyone who has EVER read these books.
"Wait until you get to book 4!!" Who's Eric?
So, while the few instances of sexy time with Eric were great I was overall disappointed.
And even more disappointed that with a $50,000.00 paycheck Sookie couldn't even give him the benefit of letting know he finally got to tap that ass.Talk about a snob!
If I got Eric in the sack- you can guarantee everyone with ears would know about it.
But hey, I guess that's me.Thanks to  this crazy MahFah for agreeing to buddy read with me.
Dead to the World is the fourth installment in the Sookie Stackhouse series.
Eric is my favorite character to start with, but during this book I love the new Eric also.
Her brother goes missing, she's being hated to the point where the answer comes to death and to save Eric from losing his memory permanently, she has to go up against very powerful witches, that ends up in a battle for lives.
I'm not looking forward to Dead in the Family(due out in May?)If you haven't read this series yet, or have only watched the show, I highly recommend you read the books.
After reading this, the fourth book in the series, I think I have figured out what it is exactly that I cannot stand about Harris’s writing style.
I believe that words have a reactive feeling within us and that (although English is certainly not the most elegant of the languages) a writer has a responsibility to their readers to attempt to make that language resonate in their stories.
The word “Lover”, on the other hand, is like a “Q”, a circle with a stop in it; that feels jarring to my mouth (and also when my brain speaks it when reading).
Sookie is a bit of a simpleton but she's also tough even if she doesn't know it most of the time.
Dead To The World is the 4th book in the series and despite the length of time it took me to read it( I just wasn't in the mood for it) I enjoyed it just as much as the previous 3 books.
Overall I love this book and this series.
I don't know if I'll ever watch the show(doubtful) but I will definitely continue reading this series.2018 Book Riot Read Harder Challenge: A book with a cover you hate.Hooked On Books August Read-A-Thon
It's Bloodsucker's Month with my lovely MacHalo beasties, so I'm going for a re-read of my favorite Sookie book.
It's  The ERIC Book.
Plus, my eyes glaze over every time she is in Merlotte's with Sam.However, that first sex scene between Eric and Sookie never gets old.
(Even though Charlaine Harris calls Sookie's boobs puppies, as in "they shivered like puppies wanting to be petted," which is pretty cheesy).
There was also a reference to Eric "learning her topography." LOL But, still, that's the kind of scene you want to read over and over.
Ahhh, Eric...::swoon::One of the best of the series, especially in terms of character development. Sookie makes a very telling New Year's Resolution: to avoid getting beat up. And not half an hour later she's picking up a stray amnesiac vampire. The chemistry between Eric and Sookie is wonderful. Pam in her take-charge mode is hilarious. The Were community is more complicated than ever. And Sookie's knowledge of Supes is growing every day. Charlaine Harris knows how to craft witty and interesting characters, with natural dialogue and distinct personalities.But really. It's a book about Eric. Isn't that enough?
To my way of thinking, this is a transitional volume—Sookie & Bill have broken up, so Sookie needs to find a new way to stay safe in the supernatural community that she is now aware of.The good aspects?
After being ignored & scorned by regular guys for years, Sookie is starting to enjoy being the centre of attention for a change.Another plus is that Sookie does not get beaten up in this episode and she starts to think about keeping herself safe, instead of leaving it up to the man in her life.
I'm not sure why I didn't like this one as much as I thought I would.There were several things that happened within it that were hilarious and fantastic....
there was a lack of something.I loved Pam, Bubba, Amnesiac Eric, Creepy Calvin.There was a lot going on, as always, is the case with Sookie, but I just wasn't really into it.
I felt like the story dragged a bit.
it just didn't seem as fantastic as I thought it would be (I'm not talking about Eric's prowess between the sheets).
It felt like Eric wasn't.
I'm not sure if I liked the whole Jason thing either.
"You can't use blackmail on someone who doesn't know anything about the hold you have on them." I've heard a lot about Dead to the World (the fourth installment of Charlaine Harris' Sookie Stackhouse mysteries) being the "Eric book", so I was definitely looking forward to reading it. While I didn't completely love it, I wasn't too disappointed either, lol. This book takes place three weeks after Club Dead, New years eve at Merlottes. (view spoiler)[Sookie's New Year resolution is to stay out of
(hide spoiler)] And although they've exchanged each others belongings and are still broken up, Bill lets Sookie know that he's leaving to Peru to continue the project that the vampire queen of Louisiana gave him (so, he's pretty much missing for most of this book, yayy!)On her way home from work, Sookie notices a mostly naked man running through the woods, but when she stops to offer help she realizes the man is really a 
With a powerful coven of witches out to take over Louisiana, her brother Jason missing, and a cursed Eric Northman hiding out at her house, her new year is starting off with an awful lot of trouble.
My favorite book in this series so far! Why? you ask.... Sookie, you lucky dog, you!Yes! Finally Sookie realizes that Eric is much better than Bill the Bore!And, even better - there is no Bill in this book except a few mentions towards the end. I was feeling like my True Blood dreams were coming true. okay, I realize that I need to dream biggerBut... Eric is not our normal Eric - he's amnesia Eric because a witch cursed him. So he's sweet, vulnerable, and open. Now, that makes Sookie like him mo
Finally Sookie realizes that Eric is much better than Bill the Bore!And, even better - there is no Bill in this book except a few mentions towards the end.
SorryNotSorrySo, Sookie is taking care of Eric while these witches are out to find him and are trying to take over all of the vampire and were ventures.
She's a super deadly and blood-thirsty bi-sexual vampire who looks like a soccer-mom, and is becoming Sookie's most unlikely friend.
I want a romance between Sookie and the real Eric!
Dead to the World4.5 StarsWhen small town waitress and closet telepath, Sookie Stackhouse stumbles across an amnesiac vampire wandering around in the woods, she immediately recognizes him as Eric Northman, the arrogant and domineering Sheriff of Area 5.
Nevertheless, the characters are engaging (aside from Bill the jerk) and the stories are fast-paced, action-packed and highly entertaining.Dead to the World is the best book so far, and this is mainly due to the wonderful dynamics between Eric and Sookie.
In terms of the story, there are two apparently connected threads - the witch coven's plot to usurp the Shreveport vamps and weres, and the disappearance of Sookie's incorrigible brother, Jason.
Then her brother Jason disappears and Sookie's worried the witches have taken him - though how could they know about him?
Weres from Alcide's pack are being murdered and although she had promised herself not to get involved, she's also promised to look after Eric, whom the witches are trying to find, and try to find her brother.
I was disappointed Eric doesn't remember anything that happened while he was cursed, because I'm really starting to feel sorry for Sookie and I'm glad she hasn't forgiven Bill yet - he's very distant and hasn't even made an effort to mend things.
Opening Line: "I found the note taped to my door when I got home from work."More like a 3.5 actually…Dead to the World is the 4th instalment from the addictive and entertaining Sookie Stackhouse series, which for the most part I’m really enjoying.
In the end I can’t seem to stop myself from continuing on with this series, Sookie feels like an old friend and I need to know where this is all going.Its New Years eve when we first join Sookie again, she’s driving home from a busy night at Merlottes.
Jan, 2009: Somewhat to my surprise, this book was every bit as good or a bit better than the previous ones.
Very enjoyable, quick read which for me to say about a 4th novel in a series is somewhat unusual.
I generally tire of series as repetition takes its toll.
Some new oddities are introduced in a good, logical manner, opening the world up & adding a bit more depth.
This book takes place about a year after Sookie first meets Bill & I found it helpful that she reflects a bit on this.
❤ 5 Dead to the World Stars ❤ This book gets me right in the feels.
Erik the freaking hot hunky vampire loses his memory.
He gets under her skin as only Erik can do.I loved how their relationship grew from lust to more.
Witches… in almost any book there are the good and the bad and making Erik lose his memory like that… Gotta say kinda genius.
;) Loved this book, can’t wait to dive in to book 5.*You don't have to like my review but its 100% my opinion, and I am allowed to have it.*
This book series got way better ever since Bill got out of the picture (or at least Sookie lost interest in him). More magical creatures, more power struggles and more romance. Again, Sookie is a sweetheart and I loved the fun, fast paced writing.
When Sookie finds Eric Northman (the Viking vampire who owns the vampire bar Fangtasia in modern day Shreveport, Louisiana) on the side of the road, he seems dazed and disoriented.
Gone is the smug, sarcastic, and arrogant Eric that Sookie's always known and, in his place, is a scared and dependent vampire.
And that's part of why I didn't like this as much--Eric's just not as much fun in this one.
In fact, the writing really is pretty terrible, but what she lacks in writing skill Harris makes up for in a vivid imagination and a savvy for knowing how to keep us interested in the life of Sookie Stackhouse.Cross posted at This Insignificant Cinder
Como los otros libros de esta serie, me ha encantado!! Ni yo misma sé por qué le doy solo 3 estrellitas.... Bueno, sí, y es que me gustó más el tercero que este. Y es que supongo que soy más del Eric original que del encantado jajaja...
“my breasts, which were practically quivering like puppies who wanted to be petted.”There is summat seriously wrong with Harris if she considers this an acceptable sentence.Finally the scene is topped-off with Sookie reassuring Eric about his penis size.
Making Sookie’s effectively the only breasts he has ever seen, and his schoolboy flirting pretty poorly thought-through.Least self-aware statement:“I had never realized a woman could have to struggle to keep her hands off a man.”Strange, since Sookie has found herself in exactly this predicament at least three times per book so far in the series.
So far i find this to be the best of the three books i read.i liked Eric,the story was entertaining,the mystery of Where Is Jason was interesting and there was no Bill.i came to the conclusion that Bill is the problem and that he drags the story and that's the tea
Fantastic lady, fantastic writer.
Rating: 3.9* of fiveThe Publisher Says: In Sookie Stackhouse—a Southern cocktail waitress with a supernatural gift—Harris has a created a heroine like few others, and a series that puts the bite back in vampire fiction.
I'd never get a single uncomplicated moment's peace.Bill's the ex, Eric's the new boy, and Jason (Sookie's playa of a brother) has vanished.
There's a new group in Shreveport with domination of the supernatural community on their minds, the witches.
Dead To The World is the fourth book in the Sookie Stackhouse series by popular American author, Charlaine Harris.
After the painful events in Jackson, Mississippi, a few weeks earlier, telepathic cocktail waitress, Sookie Stackhouse has vowed off all involvement with vampires.
This instalment sees Sookie encountering vampires, shifters and Weres (as usual), but also Witches, Wiccans and a Fairy.
Sookie discovers that she may not be popular with regular guys because of her gift, but the supernaturals find her attractive in spite of, or sometimes because of, it.
