https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31122.I_Capture_the_Castle
I mean that the novel, both through format (a very self-aware narrator's journal) and authorial intent (with a firm eye on the sort of story-telling pedigree that brought her there), anticipated my readerly needs and desires with such swiftness that I felt agreeably anticipatory and satisfied at all times.
She is, as it promises, deeply, hopelessly in love.
The point is that Cassandra is deeply, hopelessly in love with life, and her utter, wry engagement with the castle she adores is what pulled me through the pages.
Also, something you should be aware of, although you will find out pretty soon I believe, is that I suffer from acute logorrhoea, which is a debilitating condition that impels its victim to write a never-ending journal into which is debouched every last possible banal but extremely charming detail of one’s life and that of one’s immediate family, which is, the pulchritudinous Rose, my 21 year old sister, my doughty schoolboy brother, my poor damaged papa who wrote one brilliant book once but has since sunk into a kind of bewilderment, and his nude model youngish wife, the unusual lute-playing nature-communing Topaz whom we love immoderately in spite of her frank farfetchedness, along with various cats and dogs with classically-derived names and a servant boy called Stephen who gauchely is in love with my 17 year old preciousness and whom we do not pay but who contrives to be preternaturally handsome and work for us for free.
A summary would make it sound slight, trite and predictable, all of which it is, and would not reflect the fact that it's also funny as hell, charismatic, deliciously eccentric, Austenesque and so utterly charming that I quite literally had sore cheeks after reading it because I couldn't stop smiling at the delightful nonsense the incomparable Cassandra Mortmain spilled out on the pages.
It's what would happen if an early-twentieth-century Jane Austen were to grow up in a dilapidated castle and get into financial trouble, and that's all I'm going say about it, except that I want to be Cassandra Mortmain when I grow down.
That's right. I really liked it. And I'm not ashamed to admit it. Now, would you please excuse me while I go read Hemingway and then kill something with my bare hands.
Matilda was given to me for my 8th birthday by my stepdad, the title Pride and Prejudice scribbled on a piece of paper and handed to me by my young (must've been straight out of college) 7th grade English teacher-- she gave me the paper and sent me to the library to find it, and I still remember sitting in that classroom taking in the opening page with grand delight ....I hadn't ever heard of I Capture the Castle until Stephanie handed me a yellowed beaten up well loved copy.
The story is lovely, haunting, hilarious.
One of the great poor-girls-coming-of-age stories....
Dear I Capture the Castle,What to say, what to say? Hard to put down all the feelings. To put it simply: you did everything right. The characterization like flowers slowly blooming. The story like seasons changing, invisibly but inevitably. The romance made both heartfelt and utterly, often infuriatingly real. The details, oh the details! I was put right into this world and right into Cassandra's head. And the charm! You are such a charming book - so amusing and so sweet-tempered yet with a cer
You are a love letter to the past and to writing and to what makes a home and to young people with all of their future ahead of them and older people who have all of their future ahead of them.
DEAR HATERS,NO THIS IS NOT SUPPOSED TO BE A "YOUNG ADULT" BOOK!
IT IS A BOOK ABOUT YOUNG ADULTS.
THEY ARE THERE TO PUT THE READER IN CASSANDRA'S MIND AND INTO THE WORLD OF THE BOOK.
PLEASE STOP READING BOOKS LIKE THIS.
Dear Friends,It is so very nice that we have this book in common!
People like us are, as they say, "Simply The Best"!
Dodie Smith is the author of The 101 Dalmatians (the original basis for the Disney movie, and the only reason I was familiar with her name), which I read many years ago and really enjoyed.This 1948 novel is a coming of age tale about an intelligent 17 year old girl, Cassandra Mortmain, who lives in semi-genteel but crushing poverty in mid-1930s England, in a dilapidated castle.
Her story is told in the form of her journal entries, as she practices her writing skills to try to learn to “capture” the castle, as well as the people in her life, in her writing.Cassandra skillfully describes her father’s distance and failure to do anything to provide for the family, her stepmother’s charm and eccentricity, and her older sister Rose’s despair at their isolation and poverty.
i found this book to alternate between delightful and infuriating.here is the delightful:  -images of the english countryside and the crumbling, fantastic castle-cassandra's optimism and intelligence (pre-simon)-perfect descriptions of peaceful, contemplative momentsand here is the infuriating:-cassandra's father.
what a sad commentary on aging cassandra's behavior is!the back of the book declares, "by the time she (cassandra) pens her final entry, she has captured the castle.
. ."i do not believe that cassandra "captures the castle" by the end of this book.
i feel that capturing the castle would have meant cassandra maintaining  her original good nature, selflessness and happiness despite her failure in love.
I was enchanted by the first paragraph, but never did I imagine that it would be the sort of book that left me speechless at the end--in awe and contemplative and wanting to read more but knowing that anything else I picked up just wouldn't feel right.The narrator, who is consciously attempting to "capture" in her journal her family's eccentric and impoverished life in their unfurnished, deteriorating castle home, is simply enchanting.
The book is very much about writing--the seventeen-year-old protagonist Cassandra aspires to be a writer and her strange father rose to fame through the art--and Smith weaves a tale full of wit and charm.
This novel was darn near perfect.Cassandra & her family inhabit a castle in conditions of extreme poverty. Cassandra captures both her family's character & their eccentric life style beautifully in her journals (a very rare example of a diary narration working) . Different styles & depths of love are explored. I will never be persuaded that Cassandra's father is a likeable (or even admirable) character, but genius is often uncomfortable to be around.A chance to enter a long vanished world that should not be missed.
The story is at times screwball and at times elegant but always delightful and completely won me over.Perhaps part of the reason I resisted this book is that I came to it thinking it would be romance (because of the movie poster cover of the book, which says something like, "A well-loved classic that has become the most romantic movie of the year" - hate those movie poster covers), but it is actually, more than anything, a coming of age story.
Rather, like any good coming of age story, develops through revelations of the unreliability of people around Cassandra and her discovery her own independence and capabilities.I must confess that what first hooked me on this book was Simon's beard.
In I Capture the Castle Simon looks suspiciously like Satan, until he falls in love and shaves the beard.
I was expecting to absolutely adore this and am so sad that I hated it :( This was honestly just SO boring and unnecessarily long and I didn't care for any of the characters. Their father was abusive and horrible and nobody seemed to care and they were all so superficial! All they cared about was money and status and Cassandra was so horrible to everyone! Poor Stephen omg. Also, the ending SUCKED, so there's that.
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003. Why is summer mist romantic and autumn mist just sad? I had high hopes for I Capture the Castle. Not being a Modern Classics person but loving Cold Comfort Farm I had the view that it would be fairly similar. It was fairly similar, but nowhere near as good: in fact, I'd say it was the same thing but written by a three-year-old like some kind of early Public School attempt at a pastiche.The story in
It was fairly similar, but nowhere near as good: in fact, I'd say it was the same thing but written by a three-year-old like some kind of early Public School attempt at a pastiche.The story in itself is nothing particularly exciting.
, one still hopes they would at least starve to death before lowering themselves to marrying Americans, for goodness sake.The characters are all facsimiles of the lower-upper-middle class of England who probably had a bit of Old Money tucked away but spent it all on a charming castle because, well, you would, wouldn't you?
I don’t really want to write anymore, I just want to lie here and think. But there is something I want to capture. It has to do with the feeling I had when I watched the Cottons coming down the lane, the queer separate feeling. I like seeing people when they can’t see me. I have often looked at our family through lighted windows and they seem quite different, a bit the way rooms seen in looking glasses do. I can’t get the feelings into words-it slipped away when I tried to capture it As she sit
I feel a wistful remembrance of my adolescent hopes, my days of wonderment.
But perhaps if I had met her that day when she staggered out of the inn rain-drenched, with her hair dirty and her expression maudlin, I would have told her that I never thought of her as ‘consciously naïve’, that I too had my long days by the window waiting for something to happen, that I had somehow found a lost part of myself through her.
And how hopeful I was for her when she took that train to London looking so conspicuous in her white suit, how gorgeous I thought her midsummer’s eve’s rites to be, how blissful indeed writing in the moonlight must have been.
I'm reading it for the first time as an adult, and maybe I would have felt differently about it as a kid, but now I just found it sort of upsetting, and not in a cathartic way.It's got a playful tone, yet is almost relentlessly dreary outside the narrative itself; possibly because Cassandra is too young to realize what a mess she's in.
This family is so poor and hungry and cold, and it's in a time and place where it seems the only way the sisters are going to get out is through marriage.
We were gloriously bloat.-...ham with mustard is a meal of glory.There was a formal dinner party where Cassandra observed the oddness of gathering to eat, the servants central to the experience but not involved with conversations, the food going in and words coming out.
I'm misrepresenting some of these things since the book is presented as the journal entries of Cassandra.The story's charm is also in the little realizations about life and self the character has as she observes and experiences.
This coming-of-age girl story probably wouldn't be as charming for most guys to read.
This book changed my life.It was recommended to me by the librarian at school and at first I was a bit apprehensive.
I sat with the book on my lap under the table in every lesson at school, I passed on watching the television when I got home, instead rushing to my room to curl up on my couch and continue reading.This is the book that I have to thank for my love of literature.
I opened my mind and unlocked within me an addiction that means I can't let a day go by without turning the pages of a book.
One of my all time favourites. You can watch my full recommendation here - http://youtu.be/tFPZ4LoaGq8
Once he came out, he has not written a single thing but spends his time reading old detective stories: hence their poverty.Rose, his elder daughter, is lovely and self-centred, and is willing to sell herself to get out of her poverty; the younger daughter Cassandra is pretty, witty and intelligent and aspires to be a novelist.
Simon Cotton, a well-read intellectual, is fascinated by England and also by James Mottmain, who is still famous in America; later on, also by Rose.
I think I must have read some loving review written somewhere when it was reissued a while back -- a loving review that probably completely mischaracterized the book -- or I never would have picked it up.Nevertheless, even though it is better suited for 15-year-old girls, it really is a well-written and charming novel told by a quite winning narrator.
(Dodie Smith, unlike Stephenie Meyer, actually speaks the English language.) In fact, any 15-year-old girl who wants to read a romance suitable for age, and values her brain cells, would be well-advised to choose "I Capture the Castle" over "Twilight."OK, sorry, didn't meant to make this yet another anti-"Twilight" screed.
This is what a Young Adult novel should read like.
I found it funny that she loves animals so much and wishes owls were vegetarian, but eats meat herself without a shadow of a critical thought.I liked her casual explanation of England being special to her:'oh not the flag and Kipling and outposts of Empire and so on, but the country[side] and London'Quite.There is a neatly written section in which the vicar and Miss Marcy both casually encourage the stricken Cassandra to whom they are offering succour and comfort that is like water in a desert to her, to take up their own interests: religion!
For example, Topaz can only cook and scrub and clean and comfort, and Miss Marcy can go out of her way to provide somewhat insubstantial help, while Mrs. Cotton can send gigantic hams and throw lavish parties and Simon, with his age and access to education, can talk about books and composers.
I don't mean the character shouldn't still be a work-in-progress at the end of book, but in terms of character growth, Cassandra's story and and Miss Marcy's story of being shaken out of her self-interest by grief and tragedy and then coming out of that by taking an interest in children are at different ends of the spectrum.
"Perhaps watching someone you love suffer can teach you even more than suffering yourself can."17-year-old Cassandra Mortmain lives in a ruined Suffolk castle with her poor, yet eccentric family.
But one major life event occurs between the beginning and the end of these entries - Cassandra has fallen hopelessly in love.This is a quintessentially English coming-of-age story that is the literary equivalent of rolling yourself up in a big, warm, cosy blanket.
It's incredibly humorous yet heartfelt as our narrator very honestly depicts family life in their crumbling castle.
Rose isn't particularly likeable - not for me anyway - but our narrator Cassandra is the star of the show anyway.
I Capture the Castle is one of my favorite books for making everything out of every event until it is all absolutely important.
It's not a lonely voyeur book but a loving one, like those collections of stories and images and songs we store up to shield against the blackest stuff (or at least a rope to hold onto).I bought 'Castle' in 2002 after reading a review on amazon that said it was a "dark flip side" of Elizabeth Bowen's The Death of the Heart (one of my favorite books).
Just like making up stories in play time about living in a beautiful and rotted castle.
I smiled upon my first acquaintaince with Miss Cassandra Mortmain, laughed upon further conversation, and felt as if I were there clasping hands with her in the shadows of her crumbling castle near all the way through.
It wraps us up in mingled dreams, fantasies and reality and lets us decide which is truly which, while we watch a family trying to do the same.
I certainly would not have gathered everything that I did from this at the age of 13 or 14.
Please don't let that suffice as a reason for you to pass this one up.
And I sighed with relief as I put it away, never to be touched again.This is one of those books that most reviewers would call "delightful".
I could imagine many would sit around reading it feeling giddy and delighted.
The same way realtors use the words "cozy" and "charming" and "delightful" in order to pique interests about small, out-of-the-way holes in the wall.Now, before you beat me up over this review and the star rating, please understand that I am not a complete boor.
It has no idea of what it intended to do except to be "enchanting" and "delightful".
The characters were strong individuals without becoming clich?s (Let's face it: Rose could have been.) I loved their quirks and their problems.As I flip through others reviews though, I'm rather shocked to read that many people believed/hoped that 'I Capture' was a romance.
But that is part of the point.) This is a book about `choosing to feel', not about `falling in love.' Reread the portion about Miss Marcy's work with the children, the Vicar's work with the church, and Cassandra's thoughts on embracing their choices or walking past.
What did I just read? 🤦♀🙄
What did I just read? 🤦‍♀️🙄
I Capture the Castle is one of those rare books — like Rebecca, Jane Eyre, and The Book Thief — that stay with you forever.I adored Dodie Smith from when I read The 101 Dalmatians (not that mediocre Disney film) and its sequel, The Starlight Barking; however, I didn’t even know she wrote anything but children’s books.
For those listening to I Capture the Castle on Audible, narrator Jenny Agutter simply makes the book.
— In keeping with my motto that children’s books should not be wasted merely on the young, I intend to re-read One Hundred and One Dalmatians and The Starlight Barking this summer.
