https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73389.The_World_of_the_Shining_Prince
The royalty of the Heian imperial court were seriously weird—and not just because the women painted their faces chalk white and their teeth black.“There were many occasions in daily life -- a visit to the country, for example, or the sight of the first snowfall of the year -- when the failure to compose appropriate poems was a grave social solecism.” The wrong color note paper, badly folded, could doom you to social exile, as could poor penmanship.
The fossilized, impotent capitol police and bureaucracy were increasingly unable to keep order and, while a separate warrior class had yet to develop, provincial military and manorial families were developing into a 'second aristocracy'.

So you're going to need some explanation of it, and what will you do, friend?Honestly, look, you're going to read the introduction in whatever edition of Genji you pick, that'll do it, you don't really need a whole book.
(They did.)If you want a whole shitload more, though, here it is, in the consensus best book about the World of Genji, the Shining Prince himself, and this book references Genji an awful fucking lot and there's basically no reason whatsoever to read it unless you've already read Genji.
I was so interested that I wanted to know way more about it, more than I could get out of just a New Yorker article or an introduction.
After all, I now consider myself one; not just an outside observer, but one who is interested enough in getting closer to Japan through language, culture, and books.
Thanks to a recommendation from D., I picked up Morris' book on Heian period Japan.The World of the Shining Prince is basically a literary supplement to Murasaki Shikubu's The Tale of Genji, which in and of itself is a work of fiction that provides most scholars with a majority of the information that we have on life during the Heian period.
In fact, the title “อาจารย์” has long been adopted and used in Buddhist monastic and academic circles from the Pali 'acariya' commonly spelled “Acharya” meaning “teacher” (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acharya#...).In brief, this book is essential to serious readers of “The Tale of Genji” translated from Japanese since it is definitely one of the most informative books on 10th century Japan written to be readably understandable and appreciated by one of the outstanding Japanese scholars whose works we learn to enjoy reading now and in the years to come.
Ivan Morris' "The World of the Shining Prince" clarifies a lot of the customs that seem quite odd: the Emperors who were often children, had no real power, and abdicated at relatively young ages; the consequences of and attitudes toward endemic infidelity; the mix of native religious ideas with a Buddhism very different from the modest and detached eightfold path that Siddhartha himself developed; the way women were hidden but also aggressively courted, at times stalked.
In the discussion of Buddhism, remarking on the intense misogyny of the Tendai sect, Morris notes Genji's reaction to Rokujo's ghost ("all women are fundamentally evil") and that Ukifune's mother laments having been born a woman.
Morris's book is occasionally interesting, but there's very little here that you can't get better from reading the introductions and notes to the various Heian diaries, as well as the diaries themselves.
It was first published in 1964, and reads like it was first published in some mythical 1954 when White People (other than Ivan Morris, of course) thought The Nips were all Emperor crazed psychopaths just waiting to Kamikaze down from the skies.
And oddly, if you don't have a minimal understanding of history, this book will be infuriating, because Morris feels obliged to explain the Heian period by comparing it to specific moments in European history.
When I was giving up on Genji I read a review that said this was essential co-reading. Now that I’ve read it I feel ready to tackle Lady Murasaki again, with more understanding. This is about a 3.75, so perhaps I should give it a 4. Morris devotes a chapter to each of several cultural topics that illuminate the daily life of the Japanese upper crust of the tenth century: religion, superstition, the cult of beauty and the poignant, politics, class, relations between women and men. Well written.
This is the most beautifully written work of non-fiction that I have ever read. The perfect companion to "The Tale Of Genji". This work explains much of the Heian period that Genji was created from and puts into context this and other writings of the time in Japan. I learned a great deal about the era and the culture of ancient Japan. Love this book!
Let me start with warding off people who probably would not enjoy reading this..This book is not for you, IF :- You don't have slightest interest in medieval Japanese history.
Or for that matter, any history..- You are expecting this book to throw some light on current Japanese culture.
Reading this book alongside one of the said works would be a better experience, nevertheless..- You are short on the commodity called PATIENCE.
I picked up Genji again and this time I started reading this book on the side.
I would strongly suggest reading this book along with the fictional work of your choice from the same period
I read this before a trip to Japan to work on an art exhibition in Nara, the 8th century capital. It was the perfect preparation.
Nice introduction to Heian era. Engaging and entertaining without being too scholarly or too lax.
Also it would help if you are familiar with the other diaries and writings of the time (i.e. Kagero Diary, Pillow Book, Murasaki's Diary, etc.) Morris uses these as a way to supplement the study of Genji and as a comparison to what in Genji is actually something that happened (like the scent contest) or which is just the exaggerated ideal for the age (as in the Men crying at everything).
I have to say that the chapter about the Women's relationship to the Men of the age is probably my favorite, mainly because it delves into the reality of the polygamist society and how not only the women were effected by that in reality but how that differed (or was the same) as in the Writings of the time.
This is probably one of the most beautifully written history books I've ever read.
An excellent explanation of the world of Heian Japan which I would really recommend to anyone who wants to read The Tale of Genji.
This book certainly makes it easier to imagine Genji's world and explains many aspects and customs of the 10th century Japan that Western readers find so difficult to understand.
And, surprisingly, Morris manages to do it in an intelligible and friendly manner without adhering himself to the overly pompous academic phrasing I was so afraid to find taken the obscurity of the subject.
I found this book fascinating. It describes Japan of the era portrayed in the Tale of Genji, long before samurai, geisha, sushi, and ninja made their appearance. This book provided me with a window into a completely alien and mysterious world.
This one first.
Interestingly though, one of its major sources is indeed a novel, "The Tale of Genji" by Murasaki Shikibu, one of the capital's court ladies in the tenth century.
It is my favorite because I find it interesting, it contrasts with the government in place in my time and country, and also because it had the side-effect that the imperial family outlasted the period and became one of the longest reigning "ruling families" in the world because they didn't actually rule.
I don't have any other book on the period to compare it to and its methods seemed sound to me.
He is largely successful in this endeavor, and his book contains a wealth of fascinating detail that is rarely dry or boring.I agree with Morris that Genji as we have it today is not quite complete but am not at all sure that this was due to the novelist's death.
I believe the final chapters, those set years after the deaths of Genji and the character Lady Murasaki, are written in too different a style and from too different a point of view to have come from the same pen.
This was one of the 2 favourite books of my grandmother’s childhood friend, Luisa, who taught Chinese and Japanese for a living.
She gave me this book as a present when I was a teenager, and up to the last years of her life she always spoke about this book.
I would never have read this book if it were not for her.
The writer does a wonderful job at making this book engaging and interesting, with a coherent analysis of a society that was very different from our own.
I learned so many fascinating things reading this book.
An excellent window into the circumstances surrounding the Tale of Genji, as well as insight and information regarding the historical and societal context of the novel.
While I wouldn't consider this a must read for most people, it would certainly be indispensable to those reading the Tale of Genji without the accompanying knowledge of Heian Japan.
I thoroughly enjoyed it as a refresher as well, it having been well over a decade since I spent time in Japanese History and Literature classes.
I would recommend this book without reservation to anyone who is interested in the time period, and to everyone who finds themselves reading Genji, whether for class or for pleasure.
If you can look past the author's Western biases and old-fashioned language, this is a useful tool that can help you understand the complicated and courtly world in which Genji, the Shining Lord of the world's oldest extant novel, The Tale of Genji, lived.
An indispensable companion to the Tale of Genji.
Exhaustive study of midaeval Japanese life in the upper classes as outlined in Monogatari Gengi.
It's not the most modern of books - but if you just keep that in mind (perhaps most in the chapters about religion and 'superstitions'), it is a really good text on the subject.
A useful book for those who want to read Heian Japanese classics with something like understanding, but it's worth bearing in mind that Ivan Morris was born in Britain in 1925 and spent his life teaching Japanese literature at the university level; this of course informs his discourse, as they say in literature classes.
Yet over a thousand years ago in Heian Kyo a very sophisticated culture of paper (the right texture, colour and fold for the proper purpose) as well as dyes, incenses and perfumes was already in place, not to mention the use of the water clock, which Morris buries under the term "clepsydra", ignoring the technological marvel it was for the period, particularly compared to what 10th-century Europe was using to tell time: the sun.
Before then, however, it provides the court life it was set in -- mining both it and the contemporary Pillow Book, also by a court lady, for information.Starting with how the misfortunes, believed to be caused by the death of a prince -- "of illness" while he was traveling to exile after being implicated in the death of politician -- who was not appeased by being posthumously appointed emperor cause them to uproot the capital and move it to a new location, discovered on a hunting trip (like Versailles), which is now Kyoto and is the scene of the court in question.
And the next chapter is on superstitions and particular on unfortunate directions, which have a lot of impact on the plot of the Tale; a man can not return home from the house of the woman he seeks to seduce, because of the direction.Life at court.
The main problems I experienced reading the book was on the placing of this history in the bigger time frame of Japanese history.
Sure he discusses the time before and after and changes during the Heinan period but it feels to much for my taste as a frame, a well developed frame of a period in Japanese history namely the 11 century.
In conclusion, a must read but even if intentional and adding to the strength of the book, I can't shake of the feeling that I would have preferred more on the bigger scheme and place in time.
I have practically memorized the book, so I don't refer to it much now as I reread Genji.
I thought that many modern people would like his stances on the topic of women, sexism, though I don't always agree with it (I'm just a bit more conservative).
Even knowing attitudes of Japanese in previous centuries, I don't think the doubt was so simple.
I recall the author asking something along the line of, "are these things any more odd than the blood red nails of modern women?" A similar statement that stayed with me was made on the topic of religion.
This is one of the most intellectually intense books I've read.
The most emotionally exhaustive aspect of the book is contemplating the slow and boring lives these mythical people lead.I already have a soft spot for Heian Japan, admittedly romanticized from sweeping works like Fujiwara Teika's Superior Poems of Our Time.
As poetry at the time was largely produced by the Heian aristocracy, this was an appropriate contrast to my existing knowledge.
I knew what I was getting into from having read his other historical masterpiece, The Nobility of Failure, but this was far more intense than I had expected it to be.
The Heian Japanese were a fascinating bunch (I fell in love with them in college) and Morris' book does a wonderful job of describing their unique little world.
It reminds me of A World Lit Only by Fire, a history book so interesting that it reads like a novel and you can't put it down.
Check it out, and if you haven't read The Tale of Genji yet, get on that too.(By the way, my cat ate the cover of my copy of this book.
