https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1088635.The_Mystery_of_the_Strange_Bundle
Another nostalgic remembrance. My first "Find-Outer" novel. Nothing great, but this introduced me to Enid Blyton's mysteries. I was rather attached to Fatty, as I was also somewhat portly. :D
In this book, Fatty and Co. take on a mysterious scar-faced man. Goon and Fatty have a scuffle, but it all ends badly for the policeman and on a good note for the children. This book has a special place in my heart because it was my first ever Find Outer book. It's also great fun, and one of my favourite Blyton scenes is in this book. Fatty and Goon explore the house and hear all kinds of strange noises. It's downright hilarious!
Mr.Goon, a police officer, hates the kids because they steal his job every mystery.
One Day, Mr.Goon is sick of Fatty's(One of the find outers) tricks to lead him off the mystery after Mr.Goon was fishing for clues(literally) and stuffs a sack he found near the river down Fatty's throat(literally).
According to the police commissioner, the clothes belonged to a secret government agent who gathered secret information from other countries and cities that has been kidnapped and Mr. Fellows was his apprentice.
The information was hidden inside the clothes, but the scarred man steals them for the information.
So it is upto the findouters again to put two and two together and solve the mystery of the strange bundle.As far as food and eating is concerned, this one was pretty much overflowing with it.
The mystery I thought was also one their more interesting ones, with the children really applying their minds to Mr Fellowes strange behaviour and equally strange clues that this mystery has thrown up attempting to work out what they could all mean―in the process applying all their skills (Fatty’s marvellous disguises included).
Very poorly conceived, and often incredibly silly.
Auch wenn es ein Kinderbuch ist, so finde ich, dass hier sehr stark mit dem erhobenen Zeigefinger geschrieben wurde. Die Kinder sind perfekt, benehmen sich wie aristokratische Ladies und Gentlemen und ihre Worte sind altklug. Es herrscht eine heile Welt - Mittagsschlaf, Teejause, Kaffeehausbesuche - alles was Kinder so eben gerne in der Freizeit machen (besser gesagt, wie es die Autorin gerne hätte, dass Kinder sind). Die Gruppe der "Spürnasen" erinnert stark an die Hauptpersonen der "Fünf Freunde"-Reihe. Die Handlung ist aber kurzweilig und so hat man das Buch rasch durchgelesen.
From time to time, I like to read books from my childhood. The mystery series is more about detecting than the Five series and I've been partial to them. This is a good mystery and all ends well - except for the villains.
Thankgod It's over !
Another engaging masterpiece by the mistress of Storytelling!
Nice to revisit a childhood favourite on my Kindle :-)
Another mystery solved all thanks to the amazing power of coincidence.
The rating reflects my opinion as a child rather than what I would think of it reading it first time as an adult.
It's hard for me to rate it now, anyway, because objectively I can see the writing isn't great, but subjectively I'm filled with lots of nostalgia reading these books, which makes everything seem cute.
Nevertheless, I do think that Blyton's books are the kind of children books that most adults wouldn't enjoy, unless, like me, they've read them first as kids.
However, unlike the teamwork in the Secret 7 books, here Freddy/Fatty does all the work (except maybe Betty, who makes a discovery) and everyone else applauds.
It's so hard to believe that this book (and the rest of the series) was written over 60 years ago and yet is still being read by children around the world.
I read this book when I was around 11 and I enjoyed it a lot.
So far out of the 5 or 6 that I have read (yes I know I should be ashamed) this was the story that really stuck in my memory.
I will get down to reading the rest (before they rot in my shelf) and maybe I'll review those then.

I was hoping to give this one more than two stars, especially when I reached about the halfway point and the Find-Outers weren't puzzling over the most obvious clues in the world, as they usually do. But then, that's because the whole answer is so obscure that the reader doesn't have a hope of getting everything, the children are still extraordinarily dense about the aspects that are gettable. The writing is even lazier than usual, and once again I felt that Fatty went much too far in antagonising Mr Goon.
I really felt like reading another Enid book after yesterday, and these are I think the second under appreciated series of her books. Fatty, Bets, Larry, Daisy and Pip stare in this one, along with Buster the Scottie dog. The police man Goon is always there, bumbling along and making it easy for the oh so smart kids to solve the mystery every time. There's a few laughs and a bit of fun, lovely food described, what's not to love about an Enid Blyton book?
This was one I didn't recall a lot of detail from but I was pretty sure I had read it, I already had it marked as read, so it won't add to the total of Blyton books read, but regardless of that statistic, the book itself was not one of the better find out mystery novels, and one hopes they pick back up for the last five tales. It certainly is now basically the Fatty and Bets show with the other members of the five minor roles.
De vijf detectives en hun hond zitten midden in een mysterie zonder dat ze het beseffen. Buster speelt wel een heel bijzondere rol. Een verhaal vol actie waarbij het lang onduidelijk blijft wat eigenlijk de bedoeling is. Mysterieus, een beetje griezelig zelfs.
Another great read and nostalgic!
I loved it!
SO interesting
The pranks crack me up as usual ;D
One either likes Enid Blyton or not. I like the simplicity of the plot, the endearing characters and the overt social morals. This is as good as the others.
Brilliant Book..Everyone should read it..A very interesting mystery solved by the five children and the dog..I really loved it...Superb!
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood.
Ei mitään uutta sanottavaa, paitsi että tässä salaisuus oli pilkottu kahteen osaan niin, ettei sitä voinut arvata etukäteen.
I love the ending. Fatty is so magnanimous towards Mr Goon
Fatty is a pleasure - a nice afternoon read
Re read. November 1st 2016.
Bedtime book for my 8 + 10 year old boys. Given it was written in the 1940s, it has aged well, more or less
