https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176964.The_Slaves_of_Solitude
Instead, the fourth star is a measure of how much I personally enjoy a book and find it engaging, while my elusive fifth star is granted when I feel a book has made enough of an impression on me that it's demonstrably changed my life.I honestly don't know that I've ever related as much to a character in a book as I did to Miss Roach in The Slaves of Solitude.
Πρόκειται για μια συντροφιά διαφορετικών ανθρώπων που μοιράζονται τη ζωή τους μέσα στους καταθλιπτικούς χώρους μιας παλιάς πανσιόν.
Σε ένα γραφικό προάστειο του Λονδίνου, προστατευμένο απο βομβαρδισμούς και αναταραχές βρίσκεται η πανσιόν των σκλάβων της μοναξιάς.
Όλοι οι ένοικοι, το ίδιο μόνοι, καταθλιπτικοί, απογοητευμένοι και εγκλωβισμένοι, απέχουν συνειδητά απο τον πραγματικό πόλεμο μα συμμετέχουν αναπόφευκτα στον δικό τους, μικρό, ξεφτισμένο, λυτρωτικό και εξαιρετικά συγκλονιστικό πόλεμο.
Στο πανδοχείο της μοναξιάς και του φόβου ο διακριτικός παράγοντας είναι η διορατικότητα των ενοίκων.
Η διορατικότητα τους ξεκινά πρωτίστως απο την ανταλλαγή εμπειριών και την εμβάθυνση της μοναξιάς τους.
Ο πόλεμος, σε τούτο το βιβλίο, εμποδίζει την απομόνωση μα ενθαρρύνει τους ανθρώπους να εξερευνήσουν τον εαυτό τους.
Set predominantly in a boarding house called the Rosamund Tea Rooms located by the river in Thames Lockdon to the west of London, which sees The heroine, Miss Roach, a single 39 year old who appears rather boring and unexceptional, carry on her humble life commuting to and from work along with mingling with other various characters who take up resident with her, including the comic, stiff upper lipped Mr Thwaites who always carries a face of tireless malice, and later on a manipulating German called Vicki Kugelmann who gate crashes the party in more ways than one.

Of all the books I've attempted to review on this website, none has given me more trouble than Patrick Hamilton's The Slaves of Solitude.
So The Slaves of Solitude, although it deals with lots of stuff (helpful, eh?), could be classified in that tentative genre of boarding house horror.
Also, he seems to dislike women for the most part (the main character Miss Roach in particular) until this cunty German woman named Vicki Kugelmann moves into the boarding house and puts on her best Marlene Dietrich routine.
In my opinion it is a perfect book, yes, a masterpiece, but don't ask me to tell you why.
You're just going to have to take my word for it, and Doug's, and all the other reviewers who loved this book, but can't tell you why exactly.
It is a perfect little masterpiece and you will get so wrapped up in these people's lives that you will lose track of time.
Read it.I will leave you with a quote, not from the book, but from a slip of paper I found inside my used copy.
She would have been surprised, a few months ago, if someone had told her that she was one day going to be purified by Mr. Prest- that that forlorn, silent man in the corner, that morose wearer of plus-fours, that slinker to his room, that stroller to the station, that idler and hanger-about in bars, had within him the love of small children and the gift of public purification!Sometimes a smile on someone's face can make it easier to imagine that it is enough.
The everything is going to be alright feeling (even if it isn't because there will be lots more cold days like those) was because of that.
The jacket description of Hamilton’s The Slaves of Solitude mentions an oppression brought on by World War II, a population redistribution into the rooming houses of London’s suburbs (to escape the Blitz, among other things), and a feeling of claustrophobia that results from this migratory shift, bringing strangers from different backgrounds into close proximity but without the sense of relief that a larger city (like London) would otherwise afford its inhabitants.
And I do not mean that flippantly; I’m just saying that this book worked well enough for me on a personal level that it could have happened anytime or anywhere—the “wartime-in-Britain’s-suburban-boarding-houses” thing was just a vehicle for the magnificent drama within.
Φοβερή σάτιρα κ τομή στα χαρακτηριστικά των μερών της εμπόλεμης περιόδου με ύφος που απλά απολαμβάνω να διαβάζω.Κάποια ωραία Χριστούγεννα, σε μια ωραία πανσιόν, σε μια ωραία κωμόπολη, ανάμεσα σε ωραίους ανθρώπους, με έναν ωραίο πόλεμο να μαίνεται τριγύρω. Κ φυσικά respect στον υπολοχαγό , ο χαρακτήρας του οποίου θα πρεπε να διδάσκεται στα σχολεία. Το απόλυτο γλέντι στην συντηρητική αρτηριοσκλήρυνση
At around five p.m. we would make our way towards the spot where the coach was to pick us up and return us to an equally miserable, but less indolent existence.I tell this story because my memories of being on holiday with my dad conjure up the same kind of melancholy feeling I experienced while reading Patrick Hamilton’s The Slaves of Solitude.
I'm not suggesting that you must be English to enjoy the book, because that is clearly not the case, but I think it will resonate most strongly with someone from these shores.The Slaves of Solitude is set in Thames Lockdon during World War Two; and is centred around a boarding house, the Rosamund Tea Rooms, which is mostly populated by spinsterish old women.
I've enjoyed four other Patrick Hamilton novels (Hangover Square and the Gorse Trilogy) and this is right up there with the best.
As well as the battles facing Britain, there is one closer to home.The battle between the novel's protagonist Miss Roach, a shy spinster in her thirties, and the monstrous Mr Thwaites, with whom she has the misfortune to live with in a boarding house just outside London.
Patrick Hamilton's use of language is magnificent and, after a gripping narrative, the slaves of solitude return to their lives of stoicism.
Suffice it to say this is one of the best books I've read in ages.Anyone who enjoys Patrick Hamilton.
Here's a few nuggets I read in his author bio after opening the cover:His father was a bullying alcoholic comedian and historical novelist; his mother, a sometime singer.After his mother withdrew him from Westminster School at the age of fifteen...In 1927 Hamilton fell unhappily in love with a prostitute...In 1932, he was badly injured and permanently disfigured after being hit by a car.Hamilton died of cirrhosis of the liver and kidney failure after a lifetime of heavy drinking.An alcoholic, asshole dad?
Disfigured after being hit by a car??
I loved that this was my intro into Hamilton's work, which I will now be finding more of, and very soon.
Centered around the inhabitants of a boarding house during the Blitz of the second world war it's a wonderful character study of the inhabitants who reside there.
The story is mainly told through the eyes of the spinisterish Miss Roach and her battles with two of the residents, the bully Mr Thwaites and the very manipulative German woman Vicki.This was a gentler read than my usual fare but was a wonderful read.
There are the descriptions of the time period, the blackouts, the rationing, civilian life in war time.
However it's the marvellous descriptions of the inhabitants of the boarding house that really draws you into the story.
Through all this the pale, strenuous mariner must somehow steer a way, until at last the weary dawn, not of sleep, but of resignation to sleeplessness, comes to calm the waters of the mind.”Hamilton’s playful language is part of what saves his novel from lapsing into the depressing melodrama that it might have been at the hands of a lesser writer.
He thought that the German woman was about as frightful a bitch as you were likely to find anywhere, and that something pretty nasty was going on…”Okay, I hear you, that was a lot of quotes to get through and definitely they’re better read in context.
(3,5-4,0*)"Δεν συμμετείχε στο τραγούδι· κοίταζε μέσα από το τζάμι τ' αστέρια.
Όμως αυτά τ' αστέρια δεν της μετάγγιζαν κάποιο αίσθημα ειρήνης, ήταν κι αυτά φωτάκια του πολέμου, και σαν να της έγνεφαν με τα μικροσκοπικά τους κεφαλάκια από διάφανο φως, και να της ψιθύριζαν αυστηρά ότι αυτός ο πόλεμος δεν θα 'χε τέλος."Πολλή διαφορετική προσέγγιση του κλίματος του πολέμου.
Πώς μπορείς να σκιαγραφήσεις ένα εμπόλεμο σκηνικό παγκόσμιας κλίμακας μέσα από καθημερινές σκηνές σε μια περιοχή της επαρχίας του Λονδίνου; Μία αφήγηση που σχεδόν δεν ξεπερνάει τους τέσσερις τοίχους μιας πανσιόν και περιορίζεται στους απλούς και φαινομενικά αδιάφορους οικότροφούς της.
An upstairs room with a feeble ceiling light, a slippery synthetic bedspread, curtains that wouldn’t quite meet, and no bedside light.Such was genteel poverty for Miss Roach, and for the other middle aged women and men who were boarding at the redeployed Rosamund Tea Rooms in 1943.The worst of the Blitz had past but they were still worn down by the effects of the war.“The war was slowly, cleverly, month by month, week by week, emptying the shelves of the shops — sneaking cigarettes from the tobacconists, sweets from the confectioners, paper, pens and envelopes from the stationers, fittings from the hardware stores, beer from the public houses, and so on endlessly — while at the same time gradually removing crockery from the refreshment bars, railings from familiar places, means of transport from the streets, accommodation from the hotels, and sitting or even standing room on the trains.”They were also worn down by Mr Thwaites.
Nick Hornby kind of hits the nail on the head with his blurb, that if you wanted to connect Dickens to Martin Amis with only one author Patrick Hamilton would be your author.
This has the great characterizations of Dickens but the nastiness (moral depravity?, neither of these words is quite right, oh well) of M.
Amis.
This book is really close to being great, but there is something missing in it.
I'm not complaining or anything, the book was very very good, but just that tad bit unsatisfying.
Sort of like Christmas usually is, and this book has a great Christmas scene in it.
Όμως, τελικά, αυτές οι αλλαγές θα είναι προς το καλύτερο για την κακομοίρα Ρόουτς;Στην ιστορία αυτή βλέπουμε μερικές από τις επιπτώσεις του Β' Παγκοσμίου Πολέμου στην ψυχοσύνθεση και την καθημερινότητα ορισμένων απλοϊκών ανθρώπων.
Ο Πάτρικ Χάμιλτον καταφέρνει να παρουσιάσει με απίστευτο ρεαλισμό και τρομερή φυσικότητα χαρακτήρες και σκηνικά, από τις πρώτες κιόλας σελίδες μεταφέρει με ευκολία τον αναγνώστη στο Τέιμς Λόκντον, στην μέση του πολέμου, ανάμεσα σε ανθρώπους που περιγράφονται με τόση ζωντάνια, που θα νόμιζες ότι είναι έτοιμοι να βγουν από το χαρτί.
Όμως είναι ένα βιβλίο ανθρώπινο και φοβερά καλογραμμένο, που με τον τρόπο του φέρνει στην επιφάνεια διαφόρων ειδών επιπτώσεις του Β' Παγκόσμιου Πολέμου στην Αγγλική κοινωνία.
However, the war outside the boarding house is brought inside, by both Miss Roach's 'friend' the odious German girl Vicki and by the almost comic bully, Mr Thwaites, who makes her mealtimes a misery.
As Christmas approaches, and the residents of the Rosamund Tea Rooms battle their little failures and isolation, there is a 'war to the death' between Miss Roach and Vicki.The author creates a perfect little world in the inhabitants of the boarding house.
Patrick Hamilton was a very talented writer of despair and realistic depictions of the humdrum every day nature of the world around him, there's something more immediate here than Dickens but not quite so abrasive as what would come later.
I seem to be consciously and sub-consciously gravitating towards them:- war- loneliness- characters who are misfits or victims of cruelty- repressed emotion- individual change mirroring or foreshadowing societal changeThe only thing NOT present here in TSoS is spiritual crisis (not a priest to be found anywhere) - although as David Lodge points out in his introduction, the book does end with an uncharacteristic, but entirely fitting, prayer.Ok, so this review is a rambling mess of disconnectedness, which is exactly as it should be.
The only thing a boarding house can't tell you about human nature is what it's like to have a helluva lot of money.
Patrick Hamilton has such an excellent boarding house reach, the Rosamund Tea Rooms even tell us a thing or two about the war.
From there on it's pure boarding house.The centre of the other war is going on elsewhere.
I liked the way Hamilton had it sneaking around the edges of the bigger war going on in the boarding house.
Miss Roach often expresses this awareness she has of living a different, temporary life.
And in between, we have the forlorn story of Miss Roach, a spinster (who ”was only thirty-nine, but might have been taken for forty-five”) in a Henley-on-Thames boarding house (”with pink wall-paper, which bore the mottled pattern of a disease of the flesh”) eating wartime dinners (”warm spam and mashed potatoes”) in the company of the odious, bullying Mr Thwaites (the ”president in hell”).
The town is grim, the boarding house is grim, the wartime shortages are grim, the people are grim – even the weather is grim.
Sooooo satisfying.
I really enjoyed this one.
* Maybe some of the best dialogue (internal and external) I've read in a long while.
* I have a thing for WWII settings.
I would like to have a gin and French with her any day!* The physical nyrb edition is an added plus.
In my dream library I'd have 100s of these lovelies together and the orange Penguin editions in another.
(Dream on!)Enthusiastically recommend.
Thank you Chris for bringing this one to my attention (with an article from the Barbara Pym fan club recommending this for fans of Pym. And who isn't?
And what time does to magnificent but ill-preserved books, yellowing their pages, piling dust on their covers, weakening their binding, fading printed words could sometimes happen to worthy authors (and bored head-ached reviewers too!).Just like it happened with Mr Hamilton.For twenty years, between the 1930s and the 1950s, Patrick Hamilton was a hit, probably a minor hit, but still a rather successful novelist as well as a respected playwright (no less than Alfred Hitchcock made a movie out of one of his plays).
Hamilton, who is best known these days for one of the great drinking books, Hangover Square, wrote The Slaves of Solitude some years later on the other side of the War, and brings a more measured, benevolent sensibility to the book, as well as a far more sympathetic and sober heroine in the decent, oft bewildered Miss Roach.
I picked this book up based on a recommendation on the Barbara Pym Fan Club's Facebook page.
"If you like Barbara Pym...
pick up this book!" And so I did.
In typical Pym fashion, not a lot happens in this book; it is more a character study of people living in a boarding house on the outskirts of London during World War II.
You can imagine what living in close quarters during a war does to people!I'd never heard of Hamilton, but come to discover he is the author of "Rope" and "Gaslight," two works that were turned into Hitchcock movies.
Slaves takes place in the claustrophobic world of a suburban London boarding house during the Second World War. Its residents, unmarried, shabby-genteel, struggle to hold on to whatever shreds of privacy their rooms provide.
- offending the friend she sought to make by the clumsiness of her idiom and manner of thoughts, exposing the beastliness in a multitude of ways, in her reluctance to pay for drinks, in turning up late without making proper apologies, in going to Mrs. Payne behind Miss Roach's back, and so on and so forth?And let's face it, this is just the straight-up truth:There were, she knew, many total non-combatants who thought about, talked about, and took an intense interest in the war.
One can see how Hamilton was a successful dramatist as this novel's plot is hinged on the constant interaction among the boarding house members and attempts to escape it, particularly by Miss Roach.
But we feel for Miss Roach and we too given the circumstances would rather put up with a loquacious annoying American than be subjected to the coffin-like atmosphere of boarding house life.
It is at the level of the sentence where much of the emotional range of the characters and the moral outrage that Miss Roach feels take place.
A very slow paced book with nothing happening other than the showcasing of the almost stand-still lives of the inmates of the Rose Inn at Thames Lockdon, a sleepy hamlet off the river Thames, nearby London.
Miss Roach, the central figure is a retired school mistress, who is now working for a small time publisher in London, and who has lodged here for relative safety.
Her German friend, Vicky, who has settled in England for the past 15 odd years also gets into the Inn. Initially friendly and subservient, Vicky slowly shows her true colors, and trouble starts...This book was a rich portrait of human emotions, foibles and prejudices, and succeeded in presenting an almost complete picture of the human mind.I thoroughly enjoyed reading it.
