https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/400453.Tree_of_Freedom
I never could figure out why she only took one apple seed. But then, I know I have bad luck with plants. (And it works better for the symbolism.)
And the women are strong, brave, and intelligent.Otoh, there's nothing redeeming about how the "red men" are portrayed.
Most ordinary people just want to be left alone to live their own lives, and so a major theme of the book is that it's not possible to do so.
To simplify, Caudill claims that either a citizen does his civic duty, and makes some sacrifices, or he gets trampled by a tyrant.Of course these brave pioneers work hard etc., and do get their happy ending.
Some threads are left unanswered, but nothing major.
This book isn't the awesomest I've ever read about the Revolutionary War time period, but it's the best portrayal of pioneers in Kentucky in that period, that I've read. I really liked the details of life on the frontier, making salt seasoning from plants, building homes, the importance of being able to read official documents, working together as a community.
We homeschool, so perhaps our children have higher standards than the first reviewer, but my girls all enjoyed this book when they were around ten years old. It's a delightful story of another time, an important time in our nation's history. The characters are lively, courageous, and fun. The book is old fashioned in a sweet way. Highly recommended.
Ok.
The main characters are Rob, Noel, Stephanie, and Jonathan.
Rob is a nice butterfly catcher.
Noel is a young soldier.
Jonathan is the father of the family.
Willie is a young, willing boy.Noel meets Colonel Clark and wants to build him an army.
He almost puts his family in danger.
Then Jonathan leaves to Williamsburg.
Before they know it, Rob disappears.I noticed the characters thought, spoke, and wrote strangely.
That made the book confusing.
I had to learn old English.
I would recommend this book to a friend because they could learn a thing or two about history.
It was okay. The way they talked made it hard to follow and overall the book was just "okay".
4.25 Stars
Many botanical names that I am unfamiliar with on the West Coast. Hope to look up many of them to see if the local names used in the book will helpful.Liked the fact that much of what happened was what could have been happening. More fear of things than actual threats, especially with regard to the Native Americans in the area. It certainly took some daring people to do what was needed to settle the land. Lots of great skills that should still be passed down; but aren't.
As with many honored children's books from that period, this one dealt with regional history.
This particular honoree deals with the a family pioneering in Kentucky in 1780 while the American Revolution is winding down.
The Venable family is of French Huguenot extraction (which satisfactorily explains why their children are named things like Stephanie and Noel).
Stephanie , as the main character, is typically plucky.
A few plotlines I wish were more developed, including the tensions between the illiterate Pa, and his well-to-do in-laws.Although I have read better, deeper "pioneer family" fiction, I have also read much worse.
During the American Revolutionary War, a family leaves North Carolina and heads for a homestead in Kentucky.
He thinks his in-laws are too uppity, so he doesn't let his kids take anything with them that reminds him of them.Anyway, the book gets a little better and a little more interesting once they settle onto their homestead.
The girls and the younger ones take care of the place and make improvements while the dad and oldest boy are off on war stuff, and they meet a variety of different kinds of good neighbors.So, if you're okay taking a little time to get into a book, this one is worth the read.
gr 4-6 ? 279 pgs1780, Carolina American Revolution. When 13 year old Stephanie Venable and her family moves to Carolina, they must leave behind many treasured possessions. Each family member takes one thing to remind them of home. Stephanie chooses an apple seed which she plants at their new home. She calls it their tree of freedom and like American freedom she hopes it will grow big and strong. When her father leaves to fight in the American Revolution, it is up to Stephanie and her family to keep up the farm on their own.
As I read this book, I found it hard to believe that it was directed toward children as it was a very dry story. There was plenty of factual information about the Revolutionary War and the movement toward the west in America, but how it was told was not interesting. I found it difficult to finish so I could only image how a child would feel about having to read this book.
The Venable family left Carolina to get land in Kentucky during the American revolution. This story describes the experiences they face as they settle new country. There is always the danger of warring Indian tribes financed by the British or greedy land-grabbers to be faced. This is story of courage as they face the daily struggles of life. This a book to be enjoyed by all ages.
It felt very Kentucky, which I liked. It's set during the Revolutionary War in the hollers of untamed Kentucky. It was just so boring. I had a hard time returning to it each time I took a break and had a hard time staying involved while I was reading.
I read this one with my 12 yr. old girl. We enjoyed the story. A good book about Early settlements. Set in Kentucky.
The adventures of one tiny apple seed that an early pioneer girl takes West with her. Set in the early days of pioneering, when the Missouri River was frontier.
82e2c6aa-4ec4-41cd-8ff4-915d870da423
A little hard to understand what is going on
ok not my favorite but a recamender
If this is the right one...it's a historical fiction...
I read this book a long time ago, I believe when I was in 4th or 5th grade. At the time I really enjoyed it, although I can't remember now what it's even about.
JAR6+Cau
