https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36480833-the-angry-tide
We lived, belonged, felt solidly based, important in the world – and then, flick, and we were nothing."The Angry Tide was another splendid chapter in the Poldark saga.
It’s difficult to review a series without giving away plot pieces that may reveal what happens in earlier portions.
Winston Graham continues to write with such care for his characters, the result of which causes the reader to become wholly wrapped up in the lives of each and every one.
Your favorite characters will make you angry at times and yet you know that they are very human.
The Angry Tide continues the tale of Ross and Demelza Poldark, George and Elizabeth Warleggan, Caroline and Dr. Enys, and Sam and Drake's unhappy romantic affairs.
Even though I've never cared very much for ice queen Elizabeth NOBODY deserves to die like this.(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]Since George Warleggan has now entered politics he's a bigger bully than ever and continues to thrist for vengeance against Ross doing anything and everything he can to make Ross's life miserable.
When will this guy ever be humbled?I'm eagerly moving on the next book in the series and I'm optimistic it will be just as entertaining to read as The Angry Tide.
5 STARS[image error]   ”Seeking perfection, Ross …in life it’s dangerous, for it makes the less than perfect seem less than enough.”  Here I am yet again, at the end of another chapter in the life of Ross Poldark. Tears again flowing freely, lump in throat. I must say that this was the most painful book in the series so far. The title being very aptly named. [image error]   ”But one or two things have happened, Verity. Oh I know they are small things - small to set beside the great - and they ar
I must say that this was the most painful book in the series so far.
But now and then you do not have all the control of your feelings that you should have - and then thoughts and feelings surge up in you like - like and angry tide.
I can’t tell you how impressed I am with intensity of these books.
Keep in mind these books are written in sequence and must be read in order.
If you are thinking of starting the books, there is a series on BBC, that premiered in 2015, that you may want to watch in companion.
On to book 8.
But now and then you do not have all the control of your feelings that you should have--and then thoughts and feelingssurge up in you like--like an angry tide.And it is hard, sometimes it is hard to control the tide.” This installment of the Poldark saga is, like all the others, stellar writing and storytelling. You have lived with these characters so long by this stage that you know them by heart, and yet there is always something new and exciting and vibrant and alive about them. There is hea
One moment of passion, of thoughtlessness, of lust for revenge, can lead to consequences that haunt us endlessly and reverberate even after our deaths...in the lives of our greatest loves and our children.I have not had a moment of regret in taking on this series.
This is book seven of twelve, so there is a lot more of Ross Poldark’s life to come, but I am already sure that when I close on the last page of the last book, my heart is going to scream at me to start all over again.
Por qué no he cogido yo antes estas novelas?!?!?
Magnífico libro.
Siguiendo en su línea, el escritor nos mete en una montaña rusa de situaciones y sentimientos narrados magistralmente, cuesta mucho dejar de leer.
No sé qué pasará en el resto de libros pero con éste se puede terminar la historia perfectamente (creo que estos siete son los que se adaptaron en la serie de los 70).
Creo que son unas novelas imprescindibles para un fan de las enaguas.
Ya entiendo por qué todas adoran a Ross Poldark, un protagonista real, censurable, impulsivo, idealista y maravilloso.Vamos, que leáis estos libros!
I remember as a college freshman meeting in front of the TV to watch "Days of our Lives." The room was packed with yearning, learning, young girls who just had to see what happened to Hope and Bo and their wonderful romance.
That was the ONLY soap opera I ever watched, but I feel the exact same way about these books.
I just have to know what happens.
Only work did.
Even if you don't know quite what you're working for." Did you see season two is on the way?
Can't wait!Bottom line: I am in deep here.
Line.
''…It is only now that can ever be, at any one moment. And at this moment, now, we are alive… and together. We can’t ask more. There isn’t any more to ask.”Wow....I think it was the most painful book of the series so far....
I can't say that I wasn't glad that Morwenna's husband bit it and by the hands of the librarian that he had thought beneath him.
Although Elizabeth annoyed me to kingdom come due to her shti decision making skills causing a whole lot of problems, the way she died was a horrible way to go.
It actually made me cringe and shook me up, since despite it being able to be prevented, she felt that she had no choice but to ruin herself.
Things are not coming up roses in that regard, since he nearly has all he has strived for, only to have it soured by Elizabeth dying.
Pues nada, hemos llegado al fin de la serie, pero parece ser que si al final de estos personajes como protagonistas principales.
No puedo decir si los voy a echar de menos porque igual los seguimos viendo, y esperemos que así sea.
Al haber un considerable salto temporal podemos encontrarnos con algunas pérdidas.Este libro concluye perfectamente todas las tramas que se han ido quedando abiertas a lo largo de los anteriores, y lo hace en un ritmo impresionante, solo comparable al de Warleggan.
Ha sido una gozada leer las aventuras y sobre todo desventuras de estos personajes, y vivirlas casi en carne propia, y haberme llevado los mosqueos mas grande que me haya llevado jamás con unos libros.
Madre mía, qué novela. No quiero decir mucho, pero me ha dejado con un cuerpo que... "Marea brava" es más bien "Bravo, Winston Graham". Y ahora quedan cinco más en inglés. AAAAAARG!!!!
Winston Graham has managed to keep this saga fresh, even though this is the seventh of twelve books.
His characters are living, breathing people that I've come to know and love.
I think his secret is allowing his characters to grow and change with the times.
This one takes us to the brink of a new century, the 1800's, with many changes in the villages and towns of Cornwall.
There are two deaths, one which had me cheering, another that made me sad.
Even evil George Warleggen is experiencing change, inside and out.
A man of God with rotting insides.
Having read the first two books in this series as a revisit to Winston Graham- I have skipped to #7.
The ending of this book was the ending of that first series.
It also holds the progressions to Ross's first winning elections for the district seat and Demelza's first London experience.This brings me to the point of not knowing what comes next.
This, time wise, brings us past the Admiral's vanquishing of Napoleon's fleet after his Egyptian foray and to the end of French conquest being in sight.
At the end of this book, I liked George much, much more than in the drama.
DAMN.Winston Graham is not playing around.
Loved it as much or more as the first go around. I was not able to listen to this the first time I read it, but since that time the very talented Oliver J. Hembrough has recorded the remaining books in the series. He brings these stories to life!! Now I await season 4 of the tv adaptation to begin. Squee!!!
I picked up this book with eager hands because at the end of The Four Swans the characters of this saga were left in an undercurrent of tension.
Graham takes the characters to fever pitch and as events reach a climax, Ross and Demelza watch as gale-force winds churn up the sea.
In The Four Swans, each of the women closest to Ross Poldark were forced to deal with a very serious crises and for a time, it seemed that the women had outmaneuvered the men.
I highly recommend this book to any fan of the Poldark series but hold on to your hat because you're in for stormy weather!
Page 113:‘My words are my own and my actions are my ministers’.
- Charles IIPage 203:But now and then you do not have all the control of your feelings that you should have – and then thoughts and feelings surge up in you like – like an angry tide.
And it is hard, sometimes it is hard to control the tide.’Page 410:‘The importance of money is that it should always be treated as of no importance.’I do love this Poldark series, one never gets bored with the developing plot of each book.I’ve just heard that the Welsh actressAngharad Rees passed away.
What a pity, I am going to miss you Demelza, rest in peace.[image error]
Oh man!
This installment of the Poldark saga does not disappoint.
I just have to keep on reading these to see what happens next with my friends in Cornwall.
:)I keep asking my family to read these with me but everyone else is content to watch the series on tv.
:( I try to explain how there is sooo much more than Aidan Turner's dark locks and stubble but I don't think they believe me, lol.
I have read that the series falters a bit after this one - I'm hoping it's untrue!
I cannot get enough of my Poldark babies and I knew I had to speed read Angry Tide before the new season premiered on PBS on September 30th.
The Enys family had some growing pains but I know they get through them.Demelza and RossThe Poldarks' relationship has been like a rollicking Cornish wave since they laid eyes on each other.
I thoroughly enjoyed Angry Tide and I'm looking forward to all the ebbs and flows in the future books!
Be cautious of any angry tides you may encounter, it may contain a Poldark!
Este libro es mejor que el anterior, en el sentido que continuamente están pasando cosas y se lee de una forma más amena.
Aún así, sigo con mi queja de que este autor tiene una forma de contar las cosas que no es del todo de mi agrado.
Me gustaría que profundizara más en los sentimientos y emociones de los personajes pero se ve que eso no va con él.
Eso no quita que la historia después de 7 libros haya calado.
La serie de televisión también ayuda jajajaVeremos a ver qué nos deparan los siguientes libros y qué nuevo enfoque da Winston Graham a la historia.
4+ starsI liked this one the best of the series so far. I can't decide if it's because I'm now getting new content (that I haven't previously seen on the tv show) or because the story really was just that good.A lot happened in this book, and I'm pretty sure this is where the tv show has gotten to so far. So, new story to come. I'm so excited! :D
I really like all the historical details the book adds in to really explain what is happening.
The one thing Winston Graham did not know about the Georgian era was fashion.
As annoying as Demelza's color palette is, in the book Caroline has auburn hair and frequently wears green because it makes her eyes stand out.
Elizabeth doesn't like it much but she puts up with it because she wants children.
How do you think she has felt their entire marriage knowing he loved another?
I feel bad for little Valentine who is still young enough to want to be loved and love everyone.
I loved how the author strung us along for several books with a question to which we may THINK we know the answer, but finally shares the truth so matter-of-factly as if it’s a secret just between the reader and himself.I also enjoyed the review of history provided by this book.
I admit my knowledge of the French Revolution and Napoleon’s military conquests was pretty sparse before reading this series.
Through the major character of Doctor Dwight Enys, we gain an appreciation of the medical knowledge and practices of the era and even learn of some of the advances being made at that time.
I certainly see things differently as a mother of adult children to when I was the mother of very young children.And so it was with this book.
Elizabeth, (and Ross) who I judged very harshley thirty years ago appears to me now in a much more favourable light.
She is a beautiful woman with a lovely heart, who met a very untimely and avoidable fate.Demelza, as always is my favourite character, with Ross a close second I enjoy the trials and tribulations of their relationship.
They always return to their deep love of each other.I'm taking a break from Cornwell for a while to read the latest Louise Penny book.
This is the 7th book in the Poldark series and it continues in the established context of really great characters.
Yes, the book could be enjoyed as a stand alone, but I would think to read the series in its proper order would allow one to get so much more from the story and to be so much more invested in these characters.
The feud between the Warleggans and Poldarks continues and takes on new meaning.
And the secondary characters, Dwight and Caroline Enys, the Carne brothers and Morwenna and Ossie among others elevate the story with their many issues and conflicts.
“The past is over, gone. What is to come doesn't exist yet. That's tomorrow! It's only now that can ever be, at any moment. And at this moment, now, we are alive--and together. We can't ask more. There isn't any more to ask.”Ahhh the love affair continues! Them....with each other...and me....with them.
This book... not many books have affected me the way this one has. Ross and Demelza, I think, have finally moved past everything. In almost losing Ross, and then losing Elizabeth... And everything in between. By far the best Poldark book I've ever read!!!
Hooked on Poldark. Again.
Ross and Demelza's marriage is tossed about like a ship in a storm, Dwight and Caroline fair no better, Morwenna finally has a change of fortune and Elizabeth .... ooooo Elizabeth
The Angry Tide (The Poldark Saga #7), Winston Graham
¿Y ahora qué hago con mi vida ?!!, no quería despedirme de esta serie!!, por eso tarde tanto en term
