https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96281.The_Deed_of_Paksenarrion
In a time when “attempts” at epic fantasy are a dime a dozen, a good (or great) one should be noticed.I don’t want to include any spoilers in this (and I know some actually look for them)***(note that I edited in a spoiler tag below.
(hide spoiler)] *****I came back and edited in a spoiler tag, I decided something I said here is sort of a spoiler.*****(view spoiler)[Now, the character of the paladin hasn’t been handled that well that often in literature.
(hide spoiler)]I have read this book (trilogy) many times and love it.
This is in my opinion the best fantasy novel ever. I actually read all three of the individual books before this omnibus came out, but they are really one complete story.It has fantasy elements done in a deep way I haven't seen anywhere else. If you want to understand Paladins, this is the place to do it. If you want to get an idea of how a God or gods could use someone's life through pain and trial, this is the book.Did I say it was the best fantasy novel ever? Go read it now.
Add to that unrealistic dialog, a plot that *still* hadn’t started at page 131, evil characters who are VERY VERY evil and good characters who are VERY VERY good, and you have yourself a piece of drek.
I feel no need to finish the book (because A)the characters have no personalities whatsoever, B)the main character is a boring Mary-Sue, and C)there is no plot), let alone the series.
At least Mercedes Lackey’s Arrows of the Queen had a feel of joy to it; this is just one long slog through cliché-land.
It's too bad, really, because people who read that way tend to miss some real gems.
It's really what made the entire series worth a five star rating.Outside of Game of Thrones, I have never had to experience the pain and suffering of a main character so viscerally.
Moon puts Paksenarrion into a situation with no ways out.
It's brilliant, effective, and inspiring.Elizabeth Moon's trenchant understanding of the temptation and misuse of power, for me, is what makes this series, according to the back cover blurb, the "only worthy successor to Tolkien." Go and read it!
Sure, Paks gets hit in the head more than seems possible for someone to survive, and the bull-headedness she displays is at times annoying, but these are qualities of an interesting and dynamic character.
Elizabeth Moon writes entertaining and detailed military scenes and uses a deft hand for painting a typical fantasy world.
It's the characters that bring me back to this book time and again, however.
I want to pick up a sword and go have adventures every time I read this book.
If you love fantasy, read this book.
I can't possibly articulate what makes it so good as well as the book itself can.
Robin McKinley communicates with Elizabeth Moon (@emoontx) on Twitter a lot, and I figure if Robin likes it, it’s worth a read.I did not finish this book, but not because it was bad.
It was, in fact, a very interesting book, but there was a major flaw that kept me from finishing.The story of Paksenarrion, or “Paks” as the reader comes to know her, is essentially a good one.
This moves the story along and helps the reader connect with the characters.
I like Paks as a character, but her story just wasn’t told in a way that suits me.
Fantastic, I forgot I was reading an omnibus edition of 3 books I was so engrossed.When I first read the blurb where it said it was a high fantasy story of sheepfarmer's daughter turned paladin, I admit I was a little wary.
Needless to say, it wasn't and was a fantastic story.The 3 books of the omnibus follow one after the other, literally with little to no time between books.
We have close formation drills, sieges, and campaigning.Book 2-3, Paks leaves the company and we adventure along with quests into underground lairs, meet elves/dwarves/orcs, knight/paladin training, quests, kings and politics and more military fantasy.The books isn't overly "dark" but neither is it "childish" as I feared it might be.
(That review is worth reading for insight into the development of the trilogy as a whole.) But while that novel can sort of stand as a unit on its own (though closely related to the other two), the second one, Divided Allegiance, ends with Paks in a terrible and apparently hopeless situation.
While the first novel introduces us to the seemingly polytheistic religions and cults of Moon's fantasy world, the later volumes take us behind the scenes to see more of a unifying pattern in apparent diversity.
I came upon this saga purely by accident, because I was testing out the Baen free Library (many thanks to them) on a new PDA.
After reading a few pages I was hooked, and could not get to the second and third books fast enough.
I completely got caught up in her trials and battles and victories.
Ms Moons writing style captivated me and didn't let me go until I turned the last page.
This is a story that when I finished it, I held the book close to me and sighed, sad that it was over.
This book is interesting to me primarily for its description of the main character's military training.
The main character, Paksenarrion (Paks), never really connects emotionally with anyone else.
Mostly they seem to be gregarious people who adopt her without much encouragement from Paks herself, and then rapidly get themselves killed off so that the relationships don't have to develop very far.
Also, I didn't care for the role Paks' faith played in these books.
We are supposed to believe that her strong faith plays a large role in the final conflict in the series, but the only reason she HAS faith at all is because her gods have appeared to her repeatedly and bestowed all sorts of gifts upon her.
Paks was my first screenname and hell I even named a cow after her.
Yes, I said a cow, I grew up on a farm and that's what you do when you love something on a farm.
You name a cow after it.
My dad once named a cow after an ex-girlfriend of his and it pissed my stepmom way off.
Ok I digress.
This book is about a paladin.
Only a holy knight!
Only a divine warrior of good!
And what else is Paks?
Do you see why I loved this book??
Do you see why I loved this book??
Quick warning to any easily grossed out readers: if you click on the spoiler, you're going to be grossed out.In the third book, Oath of Delivering My Manuscript on Time, Paksenarrion has offered yon loyal troth or whatever to some hot young king who treats her like furniture.
Paksenarrion goes along, taking names and kicking ass, and for some reason staying in love with yon pretty-boy, and then for no actual reason at all -- I mean NONE, guys, it's completely unnecessary -- she lets herself get captured by a bunch of orcs.Who then gang-rape her for most of the rest of the book.
If you feel that way too I recommend you still read the book but skip those bits...I wish I had it would have ruined the story not at all.I love the complex(ish) morality and spirituality in the book.
The focus varies but the intent is the same.For anyone who likes high fantasy with believable characters, magic, action, good vs evil and kick arse characters (male and female both) could get something out of this book.
This book made a criminal out of me....let me explain.This was the first fantasy novel that I remember reading -- the first that wasn't a school library find, aimed at children.
Over the years I'd pull it out and read it again every so often, whenever I was feeling a bit blue.When I found out that the author was writing more novels in the universe, ones that actually followed what happened _after_ Paks had her adventures, I did a little happy dance around the room.
They're fantastic and show how the author's craft has evolved in the last twenty years, and they're appointment reading for me these days.
Out of all the books I have read, this is probably(ok IS) my favorite.
I actually was slow and bought the omnibus having not read any of the 3 books.
I bought it because I have read and liked Elizabeth Moon's other books.
Elizabeth Moon is a very strong writer with the ability to make you see her words in your minds eye not just on the page.
This is my first real review and since it is my favorite book more emotional than factual.
If you like fantasy and military books this one combines some of the best of both.
There's a few side characters here and there but during reading I struggled to remember who they were and which position in the cohort they occupied.
Paks herself is a boring vehicle for "strong female character" who...wow I can't remember what she's done besides kill a few people in battle and get injured a few times.
The descriptions are flat and boring and the characters (including the main character) are forgettable.
I didn't know it was possible to keep the same flat pacing through an entire book rich with battles and fight scenes but Moon manages it!
In fact, Elizabeth Moon created exactly what a lot of people want, and fail to get, out of contemporary fantasy--and she did it twenty-five years ago.This is a true epic that happens to be about a woman.
All the characters feel solid, as if they had lives before this story; some are morally grey, some are full of doubt, some are shining beacons of faith, but all of them make mistakes.At no point does this reek of Moon attempting to shoehorn all the things into her novel; she handles these details masterfully.
At times I wanted to buy Moon a thesaurus.
ANOTHER LABOR DAY WEEKEND FAIL!
I have a line that I haul out to make fun of people who must have simplicity in their art, the line from Amadeus where the Emperor dismisses Mozart's music because of "too many notes." Well, one good thing about getting older is the ability to laugh at ourselves, and I'm gonna say this book has too many words!
Really, 3 chapters for what could have been dealt with effectively in maybe 2 pages?
Yet when someone like Mieville writes 50 pages for one idea I have no complaints, I love every word.
If you aren't bothered by fantasy clichés and are looking for a good story with a strong, female lead you should consider The Deed of Paksenarrion.This book is an omnibus edition that combines the books Sheepfarmer's Daughter, Divided Allegiance and Oath of Gold into one volume.
I liked this book, Paks makes for a credible, rich and engaging main character.
The other characters all have their own personalities, strenghts and flaws, though none are as developed as Paks.
There are, however, a couple of points that could potentionally turn people, especially more experienced fantasy readers, off this story.
These books are one of the things she is most famous for, and I like her other stuff, but I avoided these for ages because the jacket blurbs make them sound like such unadulterated schmaltz.
Here Moon turns her talent for making the fantastic feel "normal" and everyday - which I much enjoyed in her sci-fi stuff - on a world of fantasy and magic.
In some fantasy - usually, but not universally bad - you can practically hear the dice rolling in the background it sounds so much like a transcript of a role-playing game.
I was so happy with it that I wanted to recommend it to my mum but, to my surprise, I learned that there's no German translation of this book, which made me very sad indeed.
It definitely deserves one!If you love a good adventure, a fight of good versus evil, without the hopelessness and pessimism that so many fantasy books these days are filled with, then I highly recommend this book (or rather 3 books) to you.
Can't believe I never actually reviewed this.It took me two months to get through the Deed of Paksenarrion, but I remember enjoying it a lot.
The world is very grounded and whilst there is magic and mystical happenings (Paks becomes a paladin, after all), it's all very mysterious and not really the focus like it is in a lot of fantasy novels.It basically felt like an extended, very good coming of age story with very solid characters, and some good combat and world building thrown in.
I keep meaning to get arouind to the prequels/sequels but who knows if that will ever happen.
Part of what makes her situation so interesting is the fact that she appears to be under the protection of some sort of deity, likely Gird, even though she had never even heard of him before joining the Duke's Company.
Ultimately this means that she has become a true paladin, selected the way they used to be originally - not by the Company of Gird and it's Marshals, but by the gods themselves.
After her experience with the Kuakgan and the gods Paks heads to see the Duke.
Personally I found that she was virtually a blank place holder of a character for most of the series, having absolutely no wants or desires beyond being a good soldier and doing what she's told to do in order to move the plot along (then later being a good paladin and moving the plot along under the guise of doing the will of the gods).
This interlude had absolutely nothing to do with the rest of the book or the series at all, except that the elves liked her slightly more, not that the ungrateful bastards ever really showed it or trusted her judgement at face value at any point afterwards.
She takes what help she can get, but her Elfen help is no help at all, which is again, so true to reality and it thrilled me with the danger.
and if I say anything at all I feel like I'll prove my ignorance to hard-core followers of Paks' world, but as new fan, it is all so intricate and fun and dangerous.So, Paks tangles with the elves and ignorantly passes on a message to opposing religious leaders, which gets me to my favorite part of the story, the Kuagan.
Paks has stayed in my mind since I first read Sheep-farmers Daughter in 1988.
However, it is understanding of the warrior and Moon's tender characterization that sets the novels apart.
I come from a Military family and chose, as a woman, to enlist in the Navy during the Vietnam War. Moon's career as a Marine adds veracity to her work without the bluster sometimes seen in Military fiction.
I've given the books to sons, friends and anyone I could arm wrestle into reading them.
I'm so glad Moon has re-visited this world and I've just finished the next three books in the series.
I don't think I can stress enough how amazing this whole series is.
I read it in the omnibus edition, so I think of the series as one whole book.
The book follows her over the course of roughly three years, from soldier to sergeant to paladin-in-training to a broken shell of her former self.
In her world, there are ways of training people into becoming paladins, essentially making them a man-made hero, rather than the god-chosen heroes they are meant to be.
OH GOD THIS BOOK IS AMAZING!
I seriously cannot stress enough the scope of this book.
After reading numerous reviews on here, I have a few things to say.
One: I had no idea this was a D&D book until I read these reviews!
If anything, it allowed me to focus more on Paks than an omniscient p.o.v. would have, and yet enabled the narrator to comment on things that Paks herself wouldn't have been able to know, like her own appearance at certain moments (which is actually important in more scenes than you would think), which would have been impossible with a 1st person p.o.v. I found myself falling in love with the character regardless, and still cite this as my second favorite fantasy series--after The Lord of the Rings trilogy.
Honestly one of the best fantasy trilogies I've ever read.
I have no idea how I missed reading it in the last 15 years, and I'm glad I finally did.When you read a lot of fantasy novels - especially those about war and mercenary companies and female warriors - you sort of get a feeling about how things will go and what will happen.This trilogy left me guessing - and often sitting on the edge of my seat.
The end of book 2 is probably one of the most heart-wrenching reading experiences of my adult life.
I wasn't sure if I wanted to continue reading the third book - but I did, and I'm pleased with the final chapter.
I've been mulling for a few hours on how I feel about this book and I honestly still can't decide.
Paks didnt really hit many of my "YES GIRL YES, GET THAT AND DO THOSE THINGS!!!" buttons and her story didn't feel fulfilling to be honest.
I was always interested in seeing what would happen to her, but I feel her character was weak overall.
I think the book focused more on the plot than on the characters within it, which isn't my usual preference, and Paks wasn't a powerful enough character to really make me okay with missing out on strong character relationships.
