https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2767052-the-hunger-games
I mean it when I say this book deserves recognition, and honestly, I'd rather people were reading this and following a heroine as independent as Katniss, rather than a simp like Bella or Bethany.
Think of how amazing this book could have been had there been no romance, or if Katniss had actually been forced to kill Peeta.
Convenience saved her.The synopsis of this book suggests that Katniss's humanity will be questioned, and she will be forced to make agonizing decisions in the name of her survival, but never once does she kill for the sake of herself.
And God, I love my Pakistani people, they were so much fun to watch with :') <3Go and watch The Hunger Games movie NOW!
:'Dhttp://mockingjay.net/2012/03/12/hung...The Hunger Games ET Behind The Scenes [Extended Version] http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=...*Yes people, in this video you can watch Peeta escaping for his life, throwing breads and hugging Katniss* EEEE!
xD(When Katniss shoots arrow in the apple while preparing)http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L761Sr...After watching this, I am like, "FUCK YEA!
XD <3Josh Hutcherson (Awesome one)interview:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eoow-j...OMG OMG!
^_^ <3Safe and Sound by no other than TAYLOR SWIFT FT THE CIVIL WAR.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YFEDTt...Ok. I thought it would be like you know, metal, but this rocks!
xDhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p-5ANq...For me its like, I read this series.
I know how the book ended and I still have no idea who anyone is, and neither do I know their names, with the exception of Peeta, Gale, President Snow, that Coin woman, and Katniss.
One of the things my sister didn't like about the first movie is that the on-screen Katniss was different from her portrayal in the first book.
I haven't watched that movie, but I kind of see how the screen portrayal of Katniss might have bothered her.
Book-Katniss is strong, kick-ass without being a Mary Sue. She has a fierce love for her sister, and she is manipulative and cunning.
My "Epic Book Recipe" Checklist for The Hunger Games: 1.
A sharp and intelligent heroine with just the right amount of emotion who gives in to absolutely nothing and no one?
2. A sweet and sensitive hero who loves and supports the heroine unconditionally?
3. An original setting with a unique and thrilling plot?
4. A couple of earth-shattering shocks every now and then to keep the readers' mind reeling?
7. An ending that provides the perfect premise for the sequel but also concludes the present book?
Like I said, EPIC.
Suzanne Collins has balls ovaries of steel to make us willingly cheer for a teenage girl to kill other children. In a YA book. Two reasons why this book rocks: (a) It is not Twilight, and (b) I really hate reality shows.  Seriously, how long would it take for reality shows to evolve from "Survivor" to "Hunger Games"?  Yes, this book is full of imperfections. It often requires a strenuous suspension of disbelief. It can cause a painful amount of eye-rolling and shaking fist at the book pages. Its
And I love this book because - despite The Hunger Games being YA literature that seems to hinge on the romantic puppy love - the happiness of Katniss does not revolve solely around a cute male lead.
Yes, there is a (hated) love triangle here *eyeroll* but there are other issues that occupy Katniss' mind - such as the survival of her friends, family, and herself rather than just pining over a cute boy.
Katniss and Peeta could have had plenty of other reasons to care for each other that don't include puppy love - they are from the same district, same school, he gave her that bread, she trades with his dad, etc.
THE WHOLE PURPOSE of this book should be that there shouldn’t even be in the first place a need to sacrifice members of our society for some other people to be amused.
Why don’t you want people to read and educate themselves, does everything have to be deep and meaningful, can’t you just relax?''Yes, everything has to be deep and meaningful since we are drowning in shit of meaningless and shallow.
As a metaphor, don’t you dare telling me these uplifting emotions are not true, when all in me about this book tells me that is correct and how people should live their lives.
To reinforce the power of the Capitol by instilling fear in the population, once a year, two children from each region are selected by lots to fight to the death in a reality show.
As the book keeps reminding readers, one person's survival is only possible by the death of all the others.CRUELTY TO CHILDRENI realise that horrendous things are done to children around the world every day (extreme poverty, child soldiers, sexual assault, genital mutilation etc), but in none of those cases is the sole intention that all but one child dies, and nor is it organised by the government for a sick combination of sport, entertainment, punishment and profit.
For a long time now, I’ve wanted to rewrite my review of The Hunger Games so that I could tell you why I don’t just love this series, but why I also think it’s important.
I think it's good to enjoy stories and take what we can get from them, and so I don't regret that I love The Sun Also Rises.In seeing some male reactions to The Hunger Games, I am reminded that most men do not identify with female protagonists the way women have been trained to identify with male protagonists.
(A-) 83% | Very GoodNotes: The literal corruption of youth by reality television. Forced into murder, thievery, treachery, and kissing to stay alive.
Months turned into years and I finally saw the movies, which I suppose pushed them even further down my TBR and is a real shame because the movies didn't capture quite everything the book had to offer.
(Not that I'm shaming the movies; I enjoyed them but you never can include everything the written narrative has to offer.) That said, I found myself initially shocked at how much backstory we get into Katniss's family and District 12.
I do understand why they left out Cato's final scene from the films, but I also wish it had been included in some form as it's so vital to the overall narrative.
“Happy Hunger Games! And may the odds be ever in your favor.” Every year, Panem (post-apacolyptic North America) hosts a Hunger Games involving one female and one male representative from each of its twelve districts to fight to the death. All of the Districts of Panem must watch the Games as a form of yearly "entertainment" when in actuality, it's a power play put on by the Capitol (the wealthiest of the districts). For there to be betrayal, there would have to have been trust first. The Capit
Every year, Panem (post-apacolyptic North America) hosts a Hunger Games involving one female and one male representative from each of its twelve districts to fight to the death.
The Capitol uses the Games as a way to demonstrate the sheer helplessness of the other Districts and to keep the population cowed and in fear.When Katniss's sister (twelve-year-old Prim) is chosen as this year's competitor, Katniss volunteers to take her place.
Peeta, a boy from the "richer" side of District 12 is chosen as the male representative.
Katniss's love for her sister humanized her otherwise stiff character.
"I don't know how to say it exactly. Only...I want to die as myself. I don't want them to change me in there. Turn me into some kind of monster that I'm not. I keep wishing I could think of a way to...to show the Capitol that they don't own me. That I'm more than just a piece in their Games."    “You have a... remarkable memory.""I remember everything about you. You're the one who wasn't paying attention.”   So, I really really liked this book!! Of course, I loved Peeta!How can I not? He is pe
Congrats!4 stars because of Katniss' stupidity!Let's start from the beginning!What is Hunger Games?Every year, one boy and one girl between the ages of 12 and 18 were selected from each of the twelve districts as tributes, who train for a week and then are sent into an arena to fight to the death.Only one tribute can win the games.
It seems at first that he doesn't like Katniss very much but at the Hunger Games he helped her more than he helped Peeta.
Peeta discovers that Katniss was mostly acting during the games about the feelings.
Even though it's the first in a trilogy, this one definitely stands alone, and I'm not sure how she can keep it up for another 2 books, but I suppose it's possible (think: THE GIVER, although I loved GATHERING BLUE, and liked THE MESSENGER--HUNGER GAMES is much more brutal than THE GIVER, though).
(2012: Obviously, I never did rewrite it, and this is my most-"liked" review :) My 10 1/2 yr old son asked to read this with me, so I read it for the 3rd time with him in Oct 2008.
I've seen the movie twice so far, and definitely liked it better the 2nd time, when it didn't have to try to be my favorite book.
The Hunger Games WAS pretty fantastic, hence the four stars (though I would have given 3 1/2 if the choice was available.) I ate it up, shouting into other rooms and offices that I was going to be shoving the book into their hands as soon as I was done, but as it went on desha vu was a little too common for me.
While I have a really good feeling Collins never read, or maybe even heard of, Battle Royale, The Hunger Games was 90% the plot of Battle Royal, minus the guns, the extra blood, the ability to get to know all the other players.
But in a game where only one person can live, Katniss will have to use all her brains, wits, and instincts to determine who to trust and how to outwit the game's creators.I described the plot of this book to my husband, particularly the part where Katniss and Peeta fake being in love to gain the audience’s approval and the very first thing he said was, “Oh!
There are some animals that were scientifically altered, but you can’t have a future without a couple cool details like that, right?In general, this book throws a big fat wrench into the boy book/girl book view of child/teen literature.
It seems weird that I never reviewed  The Hunger Games . I don't know why I didn't when it was a series that completely took over my life for a short while. But recently I've been thinking about posting something in this review space and after just watching the second film (which I think was amazing and better than the first), now seems like as good a time as any to talk about why I love Katniss and nearly everything about this series.I gave this book four stars back in 2011 and I'm going to le
But recently I've been thinking about posting something in this review space and after just watching the second film (which I think was amazing and better than the first), now seems like as good a time as any to talk about why I love Katniss and nearly everything about this series.I gave this book four stars back in 2011 and I'm going to leave that rating as it is because it's an indicator of my thoughts at the time (though they slightly differ now) - thoughts which were influenced by having just finished the fantastic, horrifying, brutal and unforgettable Battle Royale manga series.

You might want to wait to visit it, though, because it can suck you in like an unexplained time warp flash.I was also inspired to create the Jackniss after I read a discussion that deeply disturbed me.Somewhere, possibly on Goodreads, I read that someone thought the Lost writers should get involved in writing the Hunger Games script.
Scream like a frikkin banshee with a frikkin laser beam on it's forehead.Before I read this, I had a friend who told me that this book was 100 times better than Twilight.
يمر الوقت لأعرف وأتأكد أن هذه الثلاثية من أفضل التجارب القرائية التي مررت بها في حياتيفهي لم تكن أبد
THIS BOOK IS JESUS.
My ‘The Hunger Games’ week 23rd march- movie is released24th march- I read this review and end up watching excellent trailers, Later I downloaded the excerpt and kind of liked the first chapter25th march- I am a proud owner of the book. Yay!26th to 27th march- I started reading the bookThis is how I thought it would go:Once I would start reading it, I would just be sucked into it and finish the book remaining awake until early hours of morning, with my bloodshot red eyes.This is how it went:I s
23rd march- movie is released24th march- I read this review and end up watching excellent trailers, Later I downloaded the excerpt and kind of liked the first chapter25th march- I am a proud owner of the book.
All I knew about Peeta was that he liked Katniss from age of five, saved her twice and is now in love with Katniss, rest is mystery.About Katniss, she does a lot of thing (infact she does everything in the book) but never has a second thought about them, never reflect over what she has done, eventually no attachment with the character.People tend to like Rue, Peeta, Cinna because these are few characters that spent time with Katniss, but (again)no character has depth.One more outcome that I feel from other reviews is that Katniss is definitely heroine of the story but why make other 10 kids villain.
The Hunger Games is the ultimate in reality TV, suspense, scripted realism, romance and survival that you should not miss.Set in a post apocalyptic future (although we frustratingly never learn the why's, how’s or even when of this future.) This new communist-type America known as Panem has been divided into a Capital and its 12 districts.
Then together with Peeta the other lottery winner they travel to the capital and begin preparations for the opening ceremonies and ultimately their death in The Hunger Games.
Yes, it was exciting and entertaining.
Like Fahrenheit 451, it was a dystopian novel set in the future, but Fahrenheit 451 had significant symbolism on every page, paragraph, and even half the sentences.
I saw the similarities of the worlds; I felt inspired to stop us from falling into that trap too.
It was like a roller-coaster.
What really annoyed me about the writing style was that I knew paragraphs before if something exciting was going to happen.
What I'm trying to say is that there was so much that Suzanne Collins could have done to make this book a masterpiece like Fahrenheit 451.
To protect her younger sister, she is sent to the capitol, along with local boy Peeta, to 'participate' in the annual Hunger Games.These 'games' are fights to the death, aired and shown to the capitol and all 12 districts under its control, in a survival arena of sorts.
Katniss and Peeta are to appear as a united team to the people.
However, Katniss has various feelings toward Peeta throughout the book and its very realistic and understandable, especially when there is possibly another guy back home.
"The Most Dangerous Game" meets Survivor. I loved it: deft characterization wrapped tightly around this lean, brutal plot that absolutely grabbed me and hung on. This was one that I started reading in the morning and snarled at all comers until I had finished it in the evening. HIGHLY RECOMMEND.***wondering why all my reviews are five stars? Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read. Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement. I can't believe I just said "hearty." It sounds like a stew.****
Well, that's not entirely true, either...Deathless is told from the PoV of a teen girl in a magical struggle for her life, and yet it got four full and eager stars.So why didn't I like this book?Because the whole thing is a cynical exercise in marketing a product that has elements the publisher recognized as hot and trending: Strong teen girl; dystopian setting; children in battle for their lives.
In a country where free speech is ever under attack (hence the First Amendment, and laws supporting it...no one legislates the safety of a thing unquestioned), we waste our collective breath lauding a second-rate industrial product, a foolish simplistic ramshackle pastiche of better books that, in a better world, would merit only silence and oblivion.Shame.
i used to be a sneerer at grownups reading harry potter and twilight and all the stuff that is supposed to be for the kiddies, and was disgusted by the infantilizing of our adults tastes.
and the books i was actually supposed to be reading were for much much younger readers.
and then i was disappointed that i wouldnt be reading all those teen books after all.
first comeuppance: regretting mocking teen fiction because now i have to read actual books for babies, which is so much more infantilizing.
i am now an adult who reads teen fiction.
But since I've put it in my top 20 favorite books, isn't there an obligation to review it?
YES  Let's make it simple...
it may be young adult, and it may be fantasy, but neither of those facts matter when you have a set of richly flawed characters, a plot that is an absolute play on "survival of the fittest" and imagery so vivid it jumps off the proverbial page...You can't not read it.
For those new to me or my reviews...
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Leave a comment and let me know what you think.
Katniss is a great protagonist - although, I'm getting tired of reading books where the main characters have just the right skills (say, archery) to persevere right through to the end.
It's not the murders that disappointed me; I went into the story knowing that at least twenty people would die in the book.
To be fair, I know that the book is supposed to serve as a warning, and in some respects, I think it did.
But then I remember everyone recommending this book to me ("It's good, you've got to read it!" "It's so cool!" "You'll love it!
Joining an ancient form of barbarity with a more modern version, the contest is seen by the nation on television, gussied up with all the pomp and circumstance of the World Cup, Superbowl and World Series combined, with the degrading intrusiveness of reality television.Primrose Everdeen gets the bad news - from Jabberjays.netWhen the unlucky Prim is selected, Katliss offers to take her place, joining the muscular baker’s son, Peeta.
I confess to not having read her prior work, so lack a basis there, and the interviews with Collins I read offer no insight.
