https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/428.Play_It_as_It_Lays
“There was silence. Something real was happening: this was, as it were, her life. If she could keep that in mind she would be able to play it through, do the right thing, whatever that meant.” Joan DidionWhenever Maria called, it was as if the ringing of the phone heralded the end of any conviviality I might have been harboring. I always had the impression when I talked with her that the Fun to Be Around Maria was dying in another room, and all I was left with was the beautiful corpse. She was b
I always had the impression when I talked with her that the Fun to Be Around Maria was dying in another room, and all I was left with was the beautiful corpse.
I left her with vestiges of misery clinging to me as if I’d been tainted by her own unhappiness.
Her mantra of late was: “I know what "nothing" means, and keep on playing.”Her circle of friends continued to take her calls because we were all afraid that by not answering we might be putting her life in danger.
I no longer believe that."- Joan Didion, Play It As It Lays (Warning: This book is not to be read if suicidal, heavily medicated, driving, pregnant, or if you ever dream of walking out, alone, into the Nevada desert and not coming back.
I remember when I was four being specifically afraid of our church's bathroom.
I remember thinking the church was hallowed ground.
Yeah, this book made me think of that empty feeling, that feeling that even in safe places there were gaps, snakes, sewers, and darkness.
Actually, hell, the book could be F.
Well, O.K. Joan Didion's prose matters.

All right, let's discuss...It has been a month since I read this little ditty, and in that one month's time, it has managed to lose a star.
When it comes down to it, while I did thoroughly enjoy this book, it isn't one that's going to stay with me through the ages.
One of my GR friends told me that this book is a favorite of The National front man/songwriter Matt Berninger (I haven't been able to find corroboration of this on the interwebs, but I'll take your word for it).
I guess in retrospect this book feels a little self-indulgent to me.
No one at the institution combs Kate's hair and the sad tangles Maria tries to smooth out during her visits are somehow emblematic of the chaos in her own life.
The chapters are short and white space is left on the page, reflecting the white space in Maria's life that she tries to fill with alcohol, sex, acting, driving.Few novels have taken me so deeply inside one character, injecting me into her bloodstream, so that I breathe with her, see through her eyes.
I love Maria, I hate her, I want to protect her, I want her out of my life.
No, come to class.' And she’d be like 'No, really, I just need to get lucky once.' That was her philosophy."Bully for Courtney Cox and Friends, but if life is a lucky bet, what happens to those who realize they don't have the energy to keep playing the game?Joan Didion's 1970 novella Play It As It Lays doesn't try to expose the dark side of life in the fast lane with salacious melodrama or thinly veiled celebrities acting out soap opera; she let Jacqueline Susann do that.

So that she would not have to stop for food she kept a hard-boiled egg on the passenger seat of the Corvette. She could shell and eat a hard-boiled egg at seventy miles an hour (crack it on the steering wheel, never mind salt, salt bloats, no matter what happened she remembered her body). Which author could possibly begin a novel with the words:What makes Iago evil? Some people ask. I never ask.Well surprisingly enough Joan Didion. And these words set in motion the inevitable direction that thi
And these words set in motion the inevitable direction that this book is going to take.When Didion wrote this book, she was thirty-five and had moved a few years before with her husband, John Gregory Dunne, to Los Angeles where they were to spend twenty years working in the film industry;The review on the back cover portrays quite succinctly the atmosphere of the setting of this book:A ruthless dissection of American life in the late 1960s, “Play It as It Lays” captures the mood of an entire generation, the emptiness and ennui of contemporary society reflected in spare prose that both blisters and haunts the reader.This was the period when the pill for contraceptive purposes had been in place for nearly a decade.
Since the "day o' horror" I have had to create a new "pretty" story every night "to get THAT face" out of her head.
I've created my own little fantasy stories, catered to the princess, filled with violet unicorns, fairy wings, rainbows and on one interesting night a humpback whale, mermaid and her own underwater kingdom.
Sometimes when life is filled with demonic faces that haunt your night you need the pretty stories to even it out.
The depravity of the characters brought out feelings and emotions within me that I needed to feel.
This book is simply brilliant. The fatalism of it's heroine, Maria Wyeth, is absolutely heart-wrenching as she slowly grows more and more tired of life. Didion is a surgeon, each sentence like a scalpel cutting away a cancerous tumor. No one can match her for brutal honesty. While it's a very quick read at just over 200 pages, it deals a swift but heavy blow.
When I finished reading this book the other day, I suddenly realized that I hadn't really appreciated it correctly.
That I needed to reread it right away because I hadn't read it the right way and because there is a lot that you don't have enough information to make sense of the first time around.I don't understand how people can call this book cold and sterile.
***One thing in my defense, not that it matters: I know something Carter never knew, or Helene, or maybe you.
I know what "nothing" means, and keep on playing.Why, BZ would say.Why not, I say.
Joan Didion wastes no words.
This novel is slim because she only says what must be said, and the reader must make the connections and draw the conclusions.
(That requires a sidenote - is this the first novel I've read where the main character has an abortion?
I can't think of another one.
Her psyche was already messed up.)I had only read a few things of Didion before but I have this feeling that I will like her more and more as I age.
I read The Year of Magical Thinking before I'd experienced any grief of my own.
Oh how the reading experience would change just five years later.
The first of her fiction that I’ve read, and it has the bleakly stylish pleasures I might have predicted from prior exposure to the essays – her feel for ominous banality, for the casual nihilism of the rootless (she insinuates where Isherwood rants, and beats him on the Zen of Freeways), for the grotesque contrast of a character’s obvious ongoing crack-up and the evasive, anesthetized trivialities she speaks in.
Published in 1970 but feels radically spare and minimal – but I don’t know why I say that…I read hardly any contemporary fiction, so am no judge of benchmarks and besides, There is No Progress in the Arts.
Una mujer que a la pregunta de por qué continúa en el juego, metáfora del fatalismo y el azar que preside la vida, responde con un escueto ¿Por qué no?
La respuesta es NADA"Una NADA mental, como anestésico contra la vida pero también como fundamento de un nihilismo conciliador, representada en los silencios que pueblan los breves, a veces brevísimos, capítulos en los que se estructura la novela.
Saltos temporales sin anuncio previo, capítulos que llegan a parecer inconclusos, diálogos en apariencia banales, escenas que pueden parecer gratuitas, ausencia de explicaciones, todo ha de ser construido y completado por el lector a partir de los gestos, los diálogos, los silencios.
The book is about a 30-year old mother, Maria Wyeth who lives in the 60's America as a struggling actress.
So, Maria gets pregnant and even when she is already a mother, she still lives an empty life.
She seems to abhor it and at several points, you can see that she struggles to set her life straight but she seems to have been engulfed by the world that she lives in.
Aside from the beautiful lyrical prose of Didion, I think that inner struggle in Maria is what makes the story worth reading if not once but twice.
I remember when I read Where I Was From a couple years ago, Didion referred a lot to her novel Play It As It Lays and I thought it sounded really bad.
Well, I didn't have such a strong reaction to it, but like everything of Ms. Didion's I've read, I found it very well-written.
I'd recommend this to anyone who liked Less Than Zero, who thinks they might enjoy essentially the same nihilistic LA-story more if it were set in the sixties, about a grown woman instead of a teenage boy, written by a better writer.
I’m not saying it’s a case of “how far we’ve come,” as probably the fact that we’re now able to talk about these things more upfront-ly and with less direct punishment doesn’t translate to the majority of women in this country, but maybe that’s why it’s largely unpleasant to read – the arguments she’s making are old arguments, we still don’t have any solutions, so rehashing them is just depressing and futile.Whereas "Slouching Towards Bethlehem" was like an epic, devastating requiem to California and the ‘60s, "Play it as it Lays" is more like a really good Elliot Smith song.
Writing is a hostile act, says Joan Didion, not in this book, just generally, that's a thing she says.
Her lead, Maria, lives more or less permanently at rock bottom - high, promiscuous, desperately low on self-esteem and purpose.
In the end she makes her only active decision of the book, passively: (view spoiler)[she chooses to keep her friend BZ company, instead of stopping him, as he commits suicide.
The answer is 'nothing.'" This book is something, though.
No es más que un clásico intento de retratar la industria del cine y sus podridas entrañas a través de una prometedora actriz venida a menos, hastiada, oprimida, narcotizada y de la que todo el mundo abusa sin que pueda hacer nada por evitarlo.
Didion denuncia la hipocresía de una sociedad que se dice liberal, pero que demuestra todo lo contrario coartando la libertad de las mujeres, anulando su capacidad de decisión y reduciéndolas a un mero elemento decorativo en manos de productores y ejecutivos sin escrúpulos.
Sin embargo, los medios que utiliza Didion para retratar esta realidad me han resultado prosaicos, la trama absolutamente incorpórea y el estilo narrativo banal, inane, raquítico.
Romanzo intenso costituito da unità narrative brevissime, dove ogni singola parola si stacca dal fondo formando un mosaico poetico di sorprendente potenza.
L’ambientazione californiana non si concede alcuna frivolezza, fornendo una visione disincantata della vita che gravita attorno a Hollywood.
La storia descrive il vuoto e il dolore, compagni costanti della protagonista Maria, che sfreccia senza meta per i deserti americani in cerca di un sollievo che non potrà mai trovare.
Struggente e bellissimo, è un libro che annichilisce.
Joan Didion, che l’ha scritto nel 1970 influenzando poi l'opera di Bret Easton Ellis, è stata riscoperta di recente dal mercato editoriale italiano.
The heroine, who seems to share the author's withering intelligence, can't enjoy the decadence that her friends have resigned themselves to, but she isn't much good with the wholesome life either, so she carves out a mostly solitary existence made up of sleeping next to her swimming pool, compulsively hitting the highway (she puts less thought into zipping over to Vegas [distance: 250 miles] than I do into going up a single flight of stairs), and, in the novel's best-known sequence, passing through several levels of shady security for an abortion in Encino.
Quick and entertaining enough to pass time on subway rides.
I had trouble relating or empathizing with the characters in the book, though i had a hunch i'm not supposed to.
This book probably would have been more effective if i read it when i was 15, when wallowing in depression seemed glamourous.
Honestly i had a hard time absorbing much of the story so this review is irrelavent.
i'll read it again when i decide to draw a warm bath, light some candles and pray i don't get a yeast infection from spending too much time in the tub.
no really i'll read it again.
Oof. The Sheltering Sky meets The Great Gatsby as rewritten by Raymond Carver? Only... even more depressing and bleak than that sounds? Hence the "oof," you know.Normally I just want books about poor, poor rich people to spare me, but this one worked by never losing sight of the fact that these hedonists were constantly digging their own holes.
Full of memorable lines and utterly engrossing, Play it as It Lays is a new favorite. I read it pretty quickly but it took a lot out of me to do so. Must find more Didion...
Πολύ ιδιαίτερο βιβλίο, το οποίο μπορεί κάποιος να θαυμάσει για τον τρόπο γραφής και σκέψης της συγγραφέως, καθώς και για τα μηνύματα που περνάει μέσω της πλοκής και των χαρακτήρων, αλλά κάποιος άλλος μπορεί να το παρατήσει πριν ακόμα φτάσει στη μέση του βιβλίου, λόγω της ιδιαιτερότητας της γραφής και του τρόπου παρουσίασης της ιστορίας.
Ουσιαστικά η όλη ιστορία έχει να κάνει με μια δευτεροκλασάτη ηθοποιό του Χόλιγουντ της δεκαετίας του '60, η οποία είναι κλεισμένη σε σανατόριο και ανακαλεί τα γεγονότα που την οδήγησαν σε πλήρη ψυχολογική κατάρρευση.
Όπως καταλαβαίνετε, ο τρόπος γραφής είναι και ο ανάλογος, φαινομενικά χωρίς κάποια αρχή, μέση και τέλος, παρουσιάζει με κάποια ένταση την ψυχολογική αστάθεια της πρωταγωνίστριας.
I hate to give Didion such a low rating because I do love her sparse yet sharply observant prose. I just found it very hard to become absorbed in or connected to a book that is essentially about meaninglessness. Perhaps I should stick to her essays and memoirs.
The city burning is Los Angeles's deepest image of itself.Joan Didion, quoted not from Play It As It Lays, but from Vanessa Place's LA MEDUSA, which I happened to read just before this*.
I think the sort of colloquial ordinariness of Joan Didion's book titles has kept me from seeking her out until now, but she's perfect.
In fact, the back-handed recommendation that finally lead me here was Angela Carter's comparison between Didion and Jean Rhys, in their characters' lack of agency, but with both, the underlying reasons are not personal failings but broader societal indictment.There's a place where a film producer questions the unspoken metaphysical/psychological implications of a rape scene.
I'm giving it a 3 for my own enjoyment of it, but it probably deserves a four for being so well written.Although I didn't exactly relish this book, I did read it in one sitting.
If you like Bret Easton Ellis novels, you'll probably love this.
If you like reading about rich people wandering aimlessly through their lives and shuddering through the death throes of their emotional lives, this is the book for you.
I was completely absorbed.I guess the take away message here is, if you're going to read one 'emotionally-vacant-character-making-a-mess-of-herself' novel this year, it might as well be this one.
It's probably not cricket to give away the last, or nearly last line of a book, but this packs a punch: "I know what 'nothing' means, and keep on playing."So what does one say about a book that is at once and the same time equally infuriating and incisive and compelling?
But I think she's just as phony.
I'm sure that in the process Didion settled a lot of old scores.And I would object to being brought into that process if she didn't have the mad skills that she does.
But she does, and there's much that astonishes in this portrait of uncompromising madness.
There's a pervasive sense of utter detachment, emptiness and ennui verging on destruction.In sparse, vivid prose, Didion paints a bleak portrait of 1960s LA and the dismal fate of a woman who fit the role of neither glamorous actress nor domestic wife.I imagine this book packed quite the punch upon its release, and it clearly influenced many books that followed it.
This, of course, is no fault of Didion's, but unfortunately it tamed some of the novel's viciousness.I'm glad I read it though.
