https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29396738-monstress-vol-1
The creators don't toy with you the way writers of traditional books sometimes do--they don't have the time to draw out anything beyond the most important Secrets.MONSTRESS, for example, opens with a slave auction, and the inquiries made about Lot 819 reveal the specific brand of prejudice that governs this world.
You learn of a war that seems to have ended, while the thriving slave trade continues to fan the flames of hate.There's no guesswork, and any confusion about terminology resolves itself quickly.I friggin' LOVE it.Our heroine, Maika Halfwolf, is the girl currently up for bid, but (once again) it quickly becomes obvious that she's only there b/c she wants to be.YEP.
If, prior to reading this, someone said to me,  Wanna read a comic that's loosely classified as a Steampunk Fantasy? Well, I would have politely (and slowly) backed away from them while turning the offer down in no uncertain terms. Because...no. I mean, is Steampunk even still a thing?I remember it was all the rage there for a while, and then it just seemed to peter out of vogue -kinda like sparkly vampires and shirtless werewolves.For those of you who may love and/or live this genre, please don
Wanna read a comic that's loosely classified as a Steampunk Fantasy?
Something, something, alternate timeline, something, something, steam powered stuff, something, something, big lacy tophats, something, something, gears cramed into every conceivable space, something, something...Now, add in some weird fantasy element and, in all likelihood, you're going to lose me forever.Unless it's a REALLY good story.And I thought this was a really good story.
Sure, because of the whole Fant-Punk* element this thing has going on, there's gonna be some strange wooo-wooo style stuff in the storytelling.
This was neat-o.Definitely recommended!*(view spoiler)[Ok, not to toot my own horn - Fuck that...TOOT!
Have you ever wonder how epic steampunk fantasy novels you read would look like in graphic novel?
I am a huge fan of beautiful artworks; doesn’t matter if it’s a book cover, manga, I love all of them.
I wish I can tell you how gorgeous the artwork in this book is, but it’s better for me to just show you one sample of how pleasantly detailed it is.This is truly a collaboration to watch out for and something that every fans of graphic novel or fantasy should try.
Readalong for the BooktubeSFF Awards which is being hosted by  Adriana from Perpetual Pages, Chelsea from TheReadingOutlaw, Samantha from Novels and Nonsense,  Connor from Connor O'Brien, Elizabeth from Books and Pieces, Kaitlin from Kitty G, Sam  from Thoughts on Tomes, Elena from Elena Reads Books, and Thomas from SFF180!I loved absolutely everything about this graphic novel.
To date, it is by far the best graphic novel I have ever read, and even surpasses my love for Saga.
This is a dark story, and it doesn't shy away from that darkness or its brutality.I loved everything about this graphic novel: the story, the characters, the art, the representation, everything.
Okay I'm only going to put a few pictures because you can all scroll through the other reviewers and see more pictures.
I don't like reviewing graphic novels because I never know exactly what to say.
This novel is about Maika Halfwolf and she has been trying to find her way for some time.
This novel is very dark but I still loved it.
Maika goes postal and kills a bunch of people, supposedly it only happens when she gets really mad.
Well, maybe not because it makes her eat people/things.
Meanwhile, the novel goes back and forth from Maika's past to the present.
Indeed Monstress, Vol. 1: Awakening doesn't burden itself with simple details like chronological order and basic knowledge before throwing you in the meat of the (epic fantasy-like) action.
And then, there are these cat-ish info-dump pages at the end of every chapter (issue) : Oh my GOSH.
However, despite the general confusion and slowness, in the end I'm eager to know where the story will go...
a talking cat...
You've got your world.Want more details, do you?
Don't ask me when, though (info-dumping cat pages, remember?) They even go so far as calling themselves Masters *snorts*As the plot, the world is interesting and complex, yet so very confusing at first.Remarkable.
I'm a TOTAL pushover for great art, great nasty story, and MONSTERS INSIDE US.I mean, I've read the whole Naruto series twice and that whole story arc of the kid with the nine-tailed demon fox living within him was all kinds of awesome.
So why do I love Monstress?The demon living inside her, of course.
It's bloody, it's disturbing, it's setting us up for all kinds of epic, and I'm completely hooked.
It's kinda like Claymore and Berserk rolled into one, only the artwork is fully realized and colored on every page and it's just soooo gorgeous.
And disturbing.
Beautiful art, a unique world with gods, humans, and something in between, fearsome magic, political intrigue to rival any epic fantasy, a plethora of formidable female characters... oh.. and magical talking cats... what more could one possibly ask for? This series is setting up to be an epic masterpiece. There is a lot going on in this first volume, so I can't wait to re-read it and discover even more.
There’s a lot of history with this comic book, which is fine, but I don’t feel like its very well established.
I feel like the world building is a little too complex for a graphic novel.
It’s trying to squeeze so much information in, but it can’t quite cope with the amount it has.
It’s like I’m starting with the second volume, where everything is already clear and the characters and locations make sense.
Other than the confusing world building, I think the story is rather solid.
I don’t think the author quite knows how to write a balanced story, I can’t see this improving.
With great graphics, interesting but somewhat confusing story, and lots of grrrrl power, Monstress packs a big punch. The story is kind of similar to Amulet and the monsters and such reminded me of Saga a bit while the cannibalism was sort of like The Walking Dead. I really enjoyed this volume and look forward to where they will tale the story in Vol 2.
The cats were my favorite characters in the story.There were a lot of things going on in the first book and I was confused at times.
However, I still recommend the book to those who like fantasy novels.FINAL NOTE:  To date, my favorite graphic novels have been ✔ Maus, Vol. 1 & 2, ✔ The Complete Persepolis, and ✔ My Friend DahmerABOUT THE AUTHOR:  the author's achievements are many and you can learn more about it here (Marjorie M.
This is a good volume 1 with a cool, BA heroine (view spoiler)[(slash villain?) (hide spoiler)] and some of the art, especially the issue covers and full-page panels, is pretty beautiful.
At first the story seems like your typical epic fantasy, race wars, magic, Chosen One. It ends up a lot stranger and creepier than that, which is a good thing.
The setting professes to be "1900’s Asia, in a richly imagined world of art deco-inflected steampunk" which I think is misleading.
I didn't think the villains were that cool except for the monster-thing.
The art by Sana Takeda is absolutely stunning.
It's style is different to most graphic novels I have read so far (only the Sandman series by Neil Gaiman is similar in places) and I really enjoyed seeing something so original.I really appreciate how female centric this whole book is.
I am absolutely looking forward to reading the next volume and thus am a bit mad at myself for not having waited until closer to the release date of the follow-up.
I cannot wait to see where Marjorie Liu and Sana Takeda take this story next; especially because they are so willing to take risks.
I’m aware that one is limited in terms of dialog and space when writing for a comic format, so I feel as though the worldbuilding and characters would be even more developed that way.
I know there was a war, which involved humans and arcanic and witches and other creatures, but now it’s ended and the witches rose in power.
The main character was young at that time, but she was still involved in the war.
I love the story, even if it’s confusing at times.
The whole thing is intense, from the characters to the atmosphere to the gory scenes to the story itself.
There's more hunger in the world than love. 4.25 stars.Monstress is a harsh, gritty story set in a stunning Asian fantasy/steampunk world. It's honestly one of the best graphic novels I've ever read, and has some of the most beautiful art I've ever seen.I think I've mentioned in previous reviews that I tend to struggle with visual stories, since I find it harder to connect to/emotionally invest in them. That wasn't the case with Monstress, though—these pages are bursting with fantastic characte
4.25 stars.Monstress is a harsh, gritty story set in a stunning Asian fantasy/steampunk world.
It's honestly one of the best graphic novels I've ever read, and has some of the most beautiful art I've ever seen.I think I've mentioned in previous reviews that I tend to struggle with visual stories, since I find it harder to connect to/emotionally invest in them.
The main character, Maika Halfwolf, is a teenager caught up in a complex magical war between humans and Arcanics—a race of supernatural beings descended from the offspring of humans and immortal "Ancients".
As an Arcanic, Maika faces harsh discrimination and cruelty.
I'm the type of reader who likes slow burns and world-building, so being dropped into a universe with so many systems in place and no explanations for any of them isn't a 5-star reading experience for me.
If you don't mind that sort of thing, though, I think Monstress could be the perfect read for you!There are also some content warnings I need to throw out here, like child trafficking and abuse, that were hard to stomach in the context of such a gorgeously detailed graphic novel, so proceed with caution.All in all: did I enjoy the graphic novel?
3.75 ⭐"To quote the poets... we're fucked."Welcome to the world of magic and mayhem with wondrous visuals.This dark and visually-stunning comics does not hold back on anything in its portrayal of wartime depravity. From slavery and torture to racism, cannibalism and coming to grips with postwar traumatic experiences. It took me a while to really get into the story but I instantly fell in love with two things - the breathtaking artwork and the sweet and adorable little muffin, Kippa. 😍Let's get b
we're fucked."Welcome to the world of magic and mayhem with wondrous visuals.This dark and visually-stunning comics does not hold back on anything in its portrayal of wartime depravity.
It took me a while to really get into the story but I instantly fell in love with two things - the breathtaking artwork and the sweet and adorable little muffin, Kippa.
😍Let's get back to the artwork, people!
It was all just simply stunning - the detailed backdrops, the portrayal of expressive emotions of the characters, even the dusky colour schemes that stay true to the dark tone of the book throughout...wow.
I'd love to see it as a movie or something though!What I liked:-The art.-The main character is fierce and I want to know more about her past and whatever is happening to her currently.-Kippa's loyalty and insight about fear and friendship.-Who run the world?
We'd get these one page spreads of a cat telling us the history of the world but this information seemed like too little too late (it explained things that would have been good to know chapters ago!) and it being told this way also felt very out of place, not integrated into the story so it was hard to take in without seeing it in action.-I'm personally not a fan of the type of violence included.
congratulations! semifinalist in goodreads' best graphic novels & comics category 2016!ugh, i still need to review this one! dammit!
Even if this wasn’t an incredible piece of storytelling, the art alone in this graphic novel would have put it at the top of my list.
Takeda’s steampunk art deco graphics are mind-meltingly beautiful and amazing.
But Liu’s story of a girl in an alternate 1900s matriarchal Asia is worthy of such beauty.
Maika is fighting the forces of darkness and evil (holy cats, such EVIL – this book definitely earns its ‘M’ rating) while also struggling with an actual monster inside her, whose agenda she hasn’t quite figured out.
More like this, please.— Liberty Hardyfrom The Best Books We Read In July 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/08/01/riot-r...
Reading this for the second time makes me wish that this was more of a book. I need to know more about this world and the characters in it. It's driving me nuts not knowing more. I NEED MORE.I loved the hell out of this.I highly recommend this graphic novel. The illustrations are gorgeous and the story line was well done.
Monstress is not a graphic you can casually flip through with your phone while enjoying your morning toilet experience, but you need to pay attention, and perhaps flip back and forth more than once to keep yourself focused on what is actually going on.This flipping is not unusual when you are facing a fantasy story that has an extremely rich world building.
There is a lot of mythology and history you need to savor in order to be fully pulled inside a world that has strong fantasy elements, but also steady steampunk and horror ingredients in the mix.
I was impressed by many books over the years, but never as completely as I am with this.
The story is set in a fantasy world where there aren't only humans but also Ancients, Arcadians (half human and half Ancient), Old Gods and other creatures.
Maika Halfwolf survived a terrible war in which one single strike killed hundreds of thousands - with neither side knowing what really happened.
She has severe memory problems and tries to figue out how she survived, what happened to her mother and what that voice inside of her is.
If you read one more book this year, make it this one!
A couple of my (possibly more comics-experienced) Goodreads friends (males of our species) had not liked this series, so I held back for awhile.
and there’s some horror in it, okay, good, then many many other friends liked it and I was in to read it.
The action is pretty frenetic, so they’re hoping you will just go with it and just ignore what the hell Lilium is and so forth.
Maika is our main kick-ass woman, who has lost an arm.
I's more violent than I imagined it would be, that's for sure, which is kind of a good thing.
Gorgeous art. Strong women. Great cats.
I WOULD LIKE TO THANK THE PUBLISHED FOR THIS REVIEW COPY IN EXCHANGE FOR AN HONEST REVIEW. REACTION AFTER READING THE BOOK This got me at the edge of my seat. It gripped me in the right ways and satisfied me when it ended. LONG STORY SHORT Maika, girl with one arm and a mark in her chest, was sold at an auction.She was branded as an archaic.Cumeans ate archaics because of the benefits that it gives them.Maika hates them.Maika needed answers.She was able to breach their city and spread chaos.But
Some of them were pretty unnecessary, but in the end i realized, wars like these are never peaceful.◆It was relevant to our current societyThis graphic novel shows how brutal wars are and how differences often spark these types of events.
Wings or no wings, these things happen in the real world.
There were a lot of things to like about this book, although personally, it just wasn't for me.
And at times, it feels unnecessary.For me, the uniqueness of the world and the magnificent illustrations were this graphic novel's strength.
Liu's story telling and Rus Wooton designs, because I totally did, but the art just was wonderful.This is definitely a high high HIGH fantasy book.
Maika Halfwolf, our heroine, is suffering from PTSD (she was in a big war and has the scars to prove it [she's missing an arm and I think that's kind of awesome the main girl has that]), and not to mention she has some type of dark energy talking to her and trying to take over her whole being because of some mask.
very very morbid book
Like it is very morbid and sometimes has very-close-to-naked beings in it as well.
This graphic novel seems to be a bit of everything - somewhat manga, but not really, fantasy in general, but with a tad of history, generally YA in tone, but talking about serious issues such as racism, slavery and torture.
Graphic side is beautiful and mind blowing - to the point I wasn't just reading the dialogues and getting through the story pretty fast, as it often happens with graphic novels, but I actually enjoyed looking at characters and steampunk-deco style of art.
There's a talking cat in this story, you guys!
The story, on the other hand, is not as pretty.
It takes three issues to get a clear definition of what an Arcanic is, for example.
It makes the first few issues more difficult to get through than they could have been.
I also felt like the story was moving too slowly for my tastes.
Ultimately, though the art is spectacular, I just couldn't get into the story or the world enough to read more.
But the art is well worth a look, and I'd recommend it at least checking it out from the library for that alone.
The art is fantastic, the characters are intriguing and the world is complex and high-stakes.
I didn't think anything was overly graphic, personally, but the story itself is dark and contains elements of cannibalism, war and murder.
For the second complaint, I already mentioned that the story is complex.
First volumes of graphic novels tend to be exposition-y in general (like pilots of TV shows), but its actual job is to introduce you to world and characters.
I think this did an excellent job of weaving in those necessary elements with intrigue and action.
