https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76507.The_Emigrants
It's hard to put the book in any specific genre since it's neither like a traditional war story nor like a memoir but rather it's the story of four people, who choose to deal with the misery, alienation inflicted upon them due to the precarious events in the history of human civilization however (though not surprisingly) man keeps boasting about them, mixed with the own impressions of Sebald from Holocaust and World War. Dr.
My tale was heard and yet it was not told,My fruit is fallen, and yet my leaves are green,My youth is spent and yet I am not old,I saw the world and yet I was not seen;My thread is cut and yet it is not spun,And now I live, and now my life is done.~ Tichborne's ElegyIt’s hard to fathom the way memories assume their role in our lives.
When the remaining choices brings out not death but rather a compromised life then little by little such compromise takes away the brittle threads of an already discarded blanket of modest desires that could no longer save us from the harsh cold of a grievous past.
There are so many weird, smelly freaks, chatty losers, obese space infringers, people urinating at twenty-minute intervals, and bitter stewards and stewardesses for whom the beverage cart is their own Sisyphean boulder that it's incredibly difficult to, say, give someone like Proust or Dostoevsky his due.
W.G. Sebald, however, overpowered my situational A.D.D. with this miraculous, sublime little book called The Emigrants.
-- despite all this I was somehow enthralled by Sebald's The Emigrants, which really isn't the kind of book you'd expect to 'enthrall' anyone.
I still think most people will probably not like this book.
Questa, e le due immagini che seguono, sono tratte dal documentario di Grant Gee “Patience (After Sebald)” del 2012.Il tempo non sana le ferite, il male non passa, e il passato resta un luogo dal quale è impossibile sfuggire, se non con il gesto estremo: di conseguenza, il suicidio dei primi due e il lasciarsi morire degli altri due si configurano come un ritorno a casa, l’heimat (non per caso, Ambrose, il protagonista del terzo racconto, va a morire in una clinica di Ithaca, USA, e l'Itaca di Ulisse, si sa, è la madre di tutte le patrie).Tutti e quattro ricordano, non riescono a dimenticare, quindi soffrono, sono sopravvissuti alla morte dei propri cari, e sembrano non riuscire a perdonarselo.Il quinto personaggio è il narratore, Sebald stesso, che come gli altri in Germania non riesce a stare, anche lui emigra presto in Inghilterra, si fa carico della memoria collettiva, raccoglie e intreccia le voci degli altri quattro per spezzare il silenzio e l’assenza di memoria che appestano la terra d’origine.La parola nazismo appare raramente in queste pagine: ma ‘cenere’ e ‘treno’ acquistano un peso speciale e riescono facilmente a evocarla.
The Emigrants: four human lives, four broken fates… W.G. Sebald, himself an emigrant for many years, knows how does it feel to live far away from a homeland.Dr. Selwyn and I had a long talk prompted by his asking whether I was ever homesick.
When I asked where it was that he felt drawn back to, he told me that at the age of seven he had left a village near Grodno in Lithuania with his family.Nostalgia is just one aspect of emigration.
Old pictures in family albums, faded pages in leather-bound journals, childhood recollections, letters from parents sent to gas chambers, hazy memories of old people waiting for the final curtain – W G Sebald erases the border line between fact and fiction, between novel and documentary evidence, between family life and history.
Uncle Kasimir, another member of the family who emigrated to America remembers: In those days, he began, once I had managed to steer the talk to the subject of emigration, people like us simply had no chance in Germany.
What Sebald shows us is that some memories are so fantastically good, that remembering them is like stabbing oneself in the chest.Sebald’s characters speak of a time when they were happier, more content, younger and perhaps even loved.
To think about these times is to cause intense feelings of sadness and self-pity.
It’s never really clear who is narrating the story, and then there are so many layers added to it as time goes on.
Memory escapes us after a time, which is something captured here.
At times the book enters an almost dream like reverie through this overall effect.
You said: ”I’ll go to another country, go to another shore,Find another city better than this one  These verses from Cavafy at once came to my mind as only I started reading  The emigrants .
We can see him collecting maps, diaries, photographs of people and places, houses, railways and furniture, in detail depicturing all migration traces through cities, hotels, glaciers and oasis.
It’s like a symbol too.And so they are ever returning to us, the dead.
The emigrants  is a story about longing and persistence of memory, interwoven from snatches of conversations and reminiscences.
It’s a book about phenomenon of memory, loss of childhood’s country, about time and passing.
In this devastatingly beautiful exploration of loss and exile, of history and biography, of the lives and memory of these four lost souls, there is the undertow of soft whispers, the same wondering questions that look into what holds them together and what tears them apart; these unanchored souls faraway from and headed to something unknown.
Memory transforms itself like a shimmering impression, bringing us closer to the flickering images living in the past, to the vividness of the flame, so that some lingering picture grows more real than the present itself.
Even as the details about these four men who do not know each other and whose life stories do not intersect, even as the one common emotion of the book (the unending sorrow, sadness, and loss caused to all by the horrors and evils unleashed by the war) is everywhere around us, diving deeper and further into details shows us how these four men manage to avoid the devastating truths about their (and, indirectly, our) post-war lives in the latter half of the twentieth century.
The stories themselves are fully told, if told at a distance, and we do get a real feel for the time and place.
Readers glimpse each character through the eyes of different narrators, sometimes through an unidentified first person narrator who may or may not be drawn from Sebald himself, some through narratives offered by the subject of each story, and some through additional information from people who knew the subject.
In my notes I find this quote [apologies to the author, I have lost the reference].: ‘The significant issue for Sebald is not memory in an overall generic sense, however, but the point at which the cost of not remembering supersedes protective strategies for survival, the moment later in life when early, often horrific repressed knowledge or experience move center stage in a person's life’.
The grown men and women, happy to see my white face, smiling and waving; some yelling broken words of English, proud of what they knew; proud of their shacks and town of decay; knowing they were lucky to be surrounded such strange beauty.
And I took note of the sea again, its sound never stopping, hitting the sand in relentless, uneven waves.I walked by the orphanage, where only the night before, amidst playing and watching the children perform, I’d been haunted by a tattered black and white image on the wall: an old man with a weathered face, deep wrinkles, no teeth, paternally gazing down at a child.
Two of them emigrated at the very start of the century; a third, a schoolteacher from Sebald's own village, spent increasing periods in France or Switzerland, but did not leave completely; only the fourth, a celebrated artist, has a conventional Holocaust story, but the latter part of his story is suffused with the beauty of the normal life of German Jews earlier in the century.
Known especially for his portraits, his paintings in heavy impasto seem to speak equally of violent trauma and human resurgence—a striking parallel to Sebald’s theme.The Emigrants is the third book by Sebald that I have read.
He reminds us that many people we interact with in our lives could have extraordinary pasts that we don't know about.
The story of the author's great-uncle Ambrose appears to be simply that of an eccentric man who worked as a servant to wealthy families.
Another story of a young man who leaves Germany for Manchester, England, at first seems to be the simple story of a student going abroad for education.
Perhaps I continue to be engrossed by such places after living in New England, where there are scores of former factory towns with immense abandoned complexes.
This was my third Sebald novel (if “novel” is the word).
It probably ought to have been my first, and I’d recommend it as a good introduction to Sebald’s special concerns and peculiar style.
Those concerns: Memory, first of all, its collection and preservation, and its failure; exile in all its forms; the case of the German people, especially the post-war generation’s attempt to grasp their historical burden; the Holocaust and everything lost in the flames.
The stories that Sebald wants to tell are never his own.
He speaks from a sort of post-apocalyptic precinct, in the shocked silence that follows historical horror.
Sebald's writing is an artistry in a league of its own.
This novel of four independent narratives tied to another through the themes of loss, exhile and remembering.
Whether one of Sebald's subjects (or narrators, for that matter) is reminiscing of a lost country or a dead loved one, the words couldn't be more perfectly chosen, more weighted with meaning.Sebald is also a master at depicting the two-headed dragon of memory with its ability to cage and liberate.
Telling stories was as much a torment to him as an attempt at self-liberation.
His skillfull use of wonderful photographs makes the stories even better.
His story, which I thought was the least successful, unfolds through conversations with N’s aunt and uncle, a doctor who was with Adelwarth at the end of his life, and through a diary that the young Adelwarth kept on a voyage.Max Ferber, a painter in Manchester is befriended by N (this was the one that resonated with me the most).
Bu seyir sürecini W.G.Sebald, 20.yy' boyunca içinde alarak, belki de yazılmış en acı, en üzüntülü ve bazen de en sinir bozucu öykülerini yaratırken okurun zihninde kendi zamanını ve geçmişini sorgulatıyor.İlk olarak 1992 yılında basılan kitap, öncelikle bir anı kitabı değil.
Sebald'ın Göçmenleri oluştururken, insanların anılarını dramatik hale getirmek anlatıcılarının ve başkalarının gizemli anılarına ilişkin soruşturmalarının kaydıdır  düşüncesiyle oluşturması ve aynı zamanda günümüz dünyasında kaybedilen belleklerimiz ve kendi kişisel tarihimizi kurgulayarak okura post-modern çağ eleştirisini yapıyor.İçerik:Kitap dört öyküden oluşuyor: a.İlk öykü,Dr. Henry Selwin: Bu öyküde kendisini bahçıvanlık işlerine adamış çocuk yaşında kendi ülkesini terk etmek zorunda kalıp, o günün getirdiği koşullara alışamayan bir yaşlı adamı konu alıyor.
The last of the four stories did get a bit hung up on itself and I was expecting more of a tied finish, but there's no fault to find with the threads or the colors, and the piece on his elementary school teacher was truly touching and ranks up there with the best character profiles I've ever read.
It's all poignant without being overwrought (again perhaps apart from the rather meandering final piece), it's striking imagery without trying hard for it.
There's some pieces that seem Victorian in their grotesque sensibilities and sentimentality, but sheer modernity in their hard, unflinching grey reality.
Yes a lot of their memories are full of hurt and pain, but like in the evil German fairy tales, once you start reading ‘The Emigrants’ you cannot stop till your heart breaks, not only with the suffering caused by memory but also by its joy and immortality.
Ο Sebald είναι ένας,εν πολύ άγνωστος στην Ελλάδα συγγραφέας, λίγο δύσκολος λόγω θεμάτων και πυκνότητας γραφής και ύφους.
Αλλά τον λατρεύω, γιατί έδωσε νέα πνοή και διέσχισε τον κόσμο αυτό, απ τον οποίο έφυγε τραγικά και νωρίς, με μια ανάγκη να κρατήσει ασβέστη τη ΜΝΗΜΗ.
Με την μνήμη σαν όπλο απεναντι στην λήθη, ο Sebald ψάχνει την ιστορία και σκιτσάρει σε τόσο όμορφη γλώσσα, στο χαρτί, τις ζωές των ανθρώπων, ανθρώπων αγνώστων και ξεχασμένων, χωρίς ηρωισμό ή κάποια ηθική δικαίωση.
Besprechung in DAS LITERARISCHE QUARTETTab 46:26:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ip-0e...Auch ein Reich-Ranicki darf sich irren ;)
Rather than a novel it's more a suite of four tales whose logic as it progresses becomes increasingly more connotative and poetic, becoming finally in the last few pages a shuffling of evocative images that cleanse and invigorate as they further reveal deeper folds of abiding sadness in the world; a dark emptiness that is somehow fertile.For Sebald the source of this fertility is memory.
And to know that the interconnectedness we need is beyond our conscious knowledge is sadness, a dark emptiness that is also somehow fertile.
4,5* Os Emigrantes  é um livro que se encontra dividido em quatro partes, que contam histórias sem ligação umas com as outras, a não ser o facto de os protagonistas de cada uma terem tido algum tipo de contacto com o narrador, e as suas histórias terem sido de algum modo determinadas pelos conflitos na Europa na primeira metade do século XX, em particular o nazismo e a Segunda Guerra Mundial.Como o título indica, são histórias de emigrantes: Henry Selwyn, um médico lituano que emigrou para Ingla
Os Emigrantes
A inclusão de fotografias a preto e branco, com muito grão, por vezes desfocadas, reforçam a melancolia, a angústia e o cinzentismo que emanam daquelas almas.Este é um livro triste, por vezes até perturbador, mas com algo de encantatório que se desprende das personagens frágeis e irremediavelmente feridas, e de uma prosa soberba na forma como sugere tanto ou mais do que diz.É quase com vergonha que confesso ser este o primeiro livro que leio do autor mas já prometi a mim própria que me irei redimir e conhecer um pouco mais da sua obra.
In part, this feeling is probably why I turned to books, because books allowed me to experience something, in my imagination, with a kind of clarity that was otherwise denied me, allowed me to connect with something in the way that I often could not connect with my surroundings or other people.With age comes understanding, of course, and understanding who I am and why I behave the way that I do has brought comfort and allowed me to lighten up and enjoy myself; with age also comes the realisation that most people are a little bit lost, that it isn’t the case that everyone is blithely strolling through life, whistling and twirling a cane, without a care in the world.
It may share the same themes, tone, and style as The Rings of Saturn and Austerlitz, but those two novels work as complete narratives while The Emigrants reads like four independent short stories or novellas collected in one volume.
In my previous review for  The Rings of Saturn  I referred to Sebald's authorial style as that of a slow-burn blues; and this applies even more so to The Emigrants, where we are guided through the mists of memory by the cadenced, subdued pace of Sebald's narrative voice, only to be periodically wrenched out of beguiling reverie by the poignant, stinging cry of sustained bends and vibrato when important, necessary pieces of this haunting exile's puzzle are slipped into place - in nonchalant but s
I referred to Sebald's authorial style as that of a slow-burn blues; and this applies even more so to The Emigrants, where we are guided through the mists of memory by the cadenced, subdued pace of Sebald's narrative voice, only to be periodically wrenched out of beguiling reverie by the poignant, stinging cry of sustained bends and vibrato when important, necessary pieces of this haunting exile's puzzle are slipped into place - in nonchalant but striking manner - through the act of recollection, oral or written, forced or voluntary, that Sebald has managed to amass for his mnemonic portrait of four Jewish - or part-Jewish - figures, all of whom are exiled from their native land (Germany, for all but one) and relentlessly and morbidly pursued by the irrepressibility of their recollections, both of the dreadful fate that befell German Jewry in the Third Reich and that of the melancholic chains that bind those who can neither unlearn nor be their true selves.
Ancak Sebald'in edebi dehası ve etkileyici anlatımı ve samimiyeti neredeyse her şeyi gölgede bırakıyor...Tabi bu kitapta daha çok öne çıkan hoşuma giden bir özellik ise ben anlatıcının kullanım biçimi.
Ben anlatıcı, yazarın kendisinden, görüştüğü kişi ile görüştüğü kişiden bizzat kendisine verilen günlük veya notlarda konuşan kişi arasında çok pürüzsüz ve rahat bir şekilde geçişkenlik gösteriyor.
Temiz ve aşırı derecede düzgün bir çeviri, yani uzun cümleler dışında ve gezintilerin verdiği tad dışında dilsel olarak tatmin edici bir şekilde bir Sebald okumadım gibi hissettim nedense.
O önsözde, Sebald'ın Almancayı kurallara fazla tabi olmadan kullandığı vurgulanıyordu, dolayısıyla böylesi bir gerçeği göz önüne alınca, bu kitap bana çok temiz geldi...
Quatro homens extraordinários que carregam, até ao fim da vida, a tristeza pelas tragédias de que foram vítimas.
França."Muitas nebulosas não há olho que as distinga."Ambros Adelwarth.
Inglaterra."Chegam ao crepúsculo e procuram a vida."Um narrador que os resgata do esquecimento, socorrendo-se das memórias dos próprios ou de quem os conheceu.
A prosa sublime de Sebald, as fotografias a preto e branco e sem legenda, transmitem autenticidade e um fascínio angustiante.
Muitos livros me põe lágrimas nos olhos, mas este pôs-me, muitas vezes, de pele arrepiada.
Para pensar."O tempo é uma bitola que não merece confiança, é só o rumorejar da alma.
I might add that the two women are both of Jewish background.But how can I read this, when I picked it up to start, and first saw the words of the dead man who left his library for me to pick through?In his scathing hand he writes: 'Empty, silly, meant to appeal to German non-Jews, geographically crippled, useless.'And under, printed on a laser printer, I think, and tipped into the first page:Phony postcards and vacuous stories of little relevance (when not totally implausible like that of the compulsive gambler with his 'visions' of the winning combinations).
Mme Sontag.I don't know who wrote this.
Supposedly some people make a game out of identifying what's real and what isn't, but I honestly could not care less.Of the four sections, the strongest are the brief, opening chapter on Henry Selwyn and the epic story of Uncle Ambros, which concludes with a trip to the Near East that reads something like Flaubert's letters from Egypt and may be the most impressive thing I've read in twenty years.The "girl who went up in flames" from Luiza Lansberg's journal.
