https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/878017.Lotte_in_Weimar
Because of my infatuation with The Sorrows of Young Werther, I had high hopes for this fictitious depiction of historical possibilities. But it was long-winded and I can’t imagine how anyone could have stayed interested. The Sorrows of Young Mike is a much better option if you are looking to read deeper into something that pertains to Werther.
Dacă în Muntele vrăjit dialectica dintre iezuitul Leo Naphta şi progresistul Ludovico Settembrini scuză orice neajuns ce i s-ar fi putut reproşa romanului şi dacă în Doctor Faustus mediul obscur antrena imaginaţia cititorului astfel încât acesta îşi remodela propria concepţie despre lume, acum cu un colorit pesimist-artistic, în Lotte la Weimar personajele nu transmis mai nimic, oricât de mult ar fi ele înzestrate cu acea eleganță aristocratică şi oricât de palpitant ar fi trebuit să sune o frază rostită de Goethe, personaj cheie al romanului.
Für mich als brauchbarer Schlüssel zum Buch sei hier folgendes Zitat aus der „Lotte“ ausreichend:„Viel kann ich auch nicht darüber bemerken. Nur soviel, ich habe eine neue Bekanntschaft von einem alten Mann gemacht, welcher, wenn ich wüsste, dass es Goethe wäre, und auch dennoch, keinen angenehmen Eindruck auf mich gemacht hat.“ (S. 377)
The first characteristic of this book wich you will remark is its refinement, a refinement wich made Thomas Mann famous with Buddenbrooks, but to a whole new level this time (no wonder since there are 38 years between these two beautiful works): it's more than charming.
Also, all the reference to his works, yet not a critical study but words and opinions by his relatives and acquaintances, is a valuable contribution in understanding them a little better.Lotte's perspective on the world is not something you should omit.
Only a novelist as self-possessed as Mann could adequately tackle the monumental subject of Goethe.
Indeed it seems that, with a work as unique in style as this, Mann was attempting to make yet another stride toward the same vast stylistic breadth as Goethe's own oeuvre of verse.The premise is so simple, yet the philosophic scope so wide and rich.
Whether such a reunion between Goethe and the inspiration for his The Sorrows of Young Werther ever occurred or not, the reader will insist: "This is how it must have been!
It had to have been...!" Mann would have us believe it was the poet's final fated retribution.

If you are an admirer of both Thomas Mann and Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, arguably the greatest literary giant in German history, you will capture rare insight of both men.The only problem with the book is that as a prerequisite, one certainly must be familiar with Goethe's "The Sorrows of Young Werther" for this book to really be appreciated.
One could probably enjoy reading this without knowledge of Werther, but much will be missed.
And anyway, "The Sorrows of Young Werther" is a short book that can be read in a day or two and will add so much enjoyment to "Lotte in Weimer".
Un capolavoro di ironia, questo ritratto della società e in particolare dell’intellettualità che si raccoglie attorno al vecchio Goethe come attorno a un monumento nazionale. Coraggioso e affascinante il capitolo in cui Mann ci conduce all’inseguimento dei pensieri di Goethe, mettendoli in scena in un monologo interiore (o pseudo tale).
არ ვიცი შეიძლება სხვისთვის საინტერესოა მაგრამ ....გაგრძელება არ შემეძლო უბრალოდ.
Sehr schön konstruiert und ausgesprochen amüsant (vor allem, wenn man Goethe nicht besonders mag...).
Thomas Mann führt den Goethe-Kult und die überspannten Romatiker vor und zeichnet dabei ein interessantes Bild der Zeit.
Die Charaktere des Romans bleiben ihren historischen Vorbildern treu, sind aber zugleich auch eigenständige Romanfiguren.Sehr interessant für Literaturfans und wenn man fast wie nebenbei etwas über die Zeit erfahren möchte.
Streckenweise anstrengend zu lesen, da Mann die Personen in der Sprache der Goethe-Zeit reden lässt und das an manchen Stellen sehr geschraubt wird und die Grammatik von der heute Üblichen etwas abweicht.
A bit tedious at times but mostly because I felt like I should know more about some of the characters prior to this reading.
I'm not smart enough or informed enough for this book as real life people are mentioned like I should know their personal biographies.
I'm sure if I knew more about Goethe, and his circle, this story would have been interesting on many more levels than it was for me.
But, none the less, I found it interesting on the surface levels that I could embrace.
Well I read it in Japanese translation.
One of two books I read in 2010 over which I lingered the longest(the other being Schild's Ladder by Greg Egan).
Its audacity of structure, depth and breadth of knowledge on Goethe, and gentle sense of irony were all eye-opening.
I mean who else, writing on Goethe, has the guts to show the great man get so aroused by his own fantasies that he starts to masterbate(this, if my interpretation of the scene is correct in the translation).
Such a rewarding book that I now long to read Joseph and His Brothers and finish Doktor Faustus.
Less a novel than a work of social and literary criticism in the guise of fiction, this is a masterly work, but not a masterpiece like Magic Mountain. Much of the book resembles a Platonic dialogue, though there is often less dialogue as such than long expositions and narrative by one character told to another who mostly listens. The "incident" around which the novel revolves is the visit of "Lotte" of "Sorrows of Young Werther" to Weimar where the book's author Goethe has long lived.
„Realitatea e o operă a renunțării.”
this isn't a novel; half comedic Lustspiel, half platonic dialogue, this is Mann's study on Goethe, his person, his work and his artistry (and to some extent on Mann himself and his self-conception). The level of detail in this is honestly awe-inspiring but, even though it is filled with lots of typical Mann tongue-in-cheek humour, I would bestow it with the predicate 'interesting' rather than 'entertaining' (which isn't necessarily a bad thing). The predominant non-fictional reflections are really thought-provocing but in turn the few fictional/novelistic elements don't always work, imo.
Besuch bei Goethe "Mit der ordinären Post von Gotha trafen an diesem Tage, morgens kurz nach 8 Uhr, drei Frauenzimmer vor dem renommierten Hause am Markte ein, denen auf den ersten Blick – und auch auf den zweiten noch – nichts Sonderliches anzumerken gewesen war."Bei den drei Frauenzimmern handelt es sich um Charlotte Kestner samt Tochter und Zofe.
Er lässt Goethe in dessen eigener Sprache sprechen, verweist auf die diversen Werke des grossen Dichters, zitiert daraus und lässt ihn so durch die Zitate und Worte über ihn lebendig werden.Lotte in Weimar thematisiert wie die meisten von Thomas Manns Werken das Spannungsverhältnis von Kunst und Leben, macht das Erzählen durch Goethes eigenen Erzählungen zum Thema.
This novel portrays Goethe as a difficult, irritating, selfish aging man who is devoted primarily to his own special interests and pursuits.
The psychology of a man like this is plumbed with the acuity of the great writer that Mann was by the late nineteen-thirties.
Filled with scenes from Goethe's life his character is gradually revealed, his genius as a writer is plumbed, and his works are revealed through interpolated quotations.
The novel is an interesting experiment in style that differs in many ways from other of Mann's works I have read, while still maintaining the voice of the author.


Carlota es una señora madura que ha alcanzado una fama equívoca; en su juventud inspiró a Goethe el personaje de la amada, en la novela El joven Werther. Después de muchos años vuelve a Weimar, donde vive el Maestro, y donde contra su voluntad es reverenciada; todos están pendientes de un reencuentro con el escritor. La novela se desarrolla a través de larguísimos monólogos, llenos de circunloquios y cortesías protocolares, que hace muy ardua la lectura de una historia que podría haber sido interesante.
Continuation of Goethe's Werther. As Goethe is processing the impossibility of his young love in his "Die Leiden des jungen Werther", this book is to be understood as the second part of the story some decades of life later. Outstanding reproduction of the mood of a time, full of carricatures in many levels. Even the longish and procedural mood, obsessed of details is reproduced from classicism very precise. ;) Nevertheless (and therefore): an excellent writing.
„არა აქვს მნიშვენელობა, გიყვართ ან მოგწონთ თუ არა თომას მანი (თუმცა წარმოუდგენელია არ მოგწონდეთ,) მაგრამ შეუძლებელია ყველაზე კრიტიკულად განწყობილმა ადამიანმაც არ აღიაროს: როდესაც მი წიგნს კითხულობ, გჯერა, რომ ავტორმა ყველაფერი იცის- ყველა პერსონაჟის სხეულში ზის, ყველას გონებით ფიქრობს და ყველა მათგანის განცდასაც თავადაც განიცდის. ეს იმდენად ცხადია, რომ შიშიც გიპყრობს კითხვისას“მაქს ფრიშიტოჩნა რა!
I have yet to tackle Goethe full-on, but have always enjoyed Mann so picked it off the library shelf when I saw it. What really came through for me was the intricate portrayals of Lotte and Goethe, particularly that of an ageing lady still with a foot in her past glories -- far more sympathetic and real than Goethe. I'll need to come back to it again after more familiarity with Goethe's works.
Absolutely boring. I was the only one in my class who read it until the end. The others only read the first chapter and then based their homework on interpretations they borrowed from the local library or older students.No stars for this one, I hated it. I remember there is no action at all, it all takes place in one room, only talk, and I didn't like Thomas Mann's writing style.
Het ontbreekt me aan tijd en waarschijnlijk ook kwalificaties voor een uitgebreide kritiek, daarom opteer ik voor een veilige maximum score van vijf sterren, waarin toch ook weer een zekere lafheid doorschemert.
(For the Turkish version, Can Yayinlari) Kitabın konusu dikkat çekici olmasına rağmen, anlatımda çok fazla tıkanıklık olması kitabı okurken neredeyse acı çekmenize neden olabiliyor.
Pretty boring
....
Picked And now there is a movie about Goethe and Lotte, but I still don't care...
long, hard to read sometimes, but rewarding. Not essential TM, but worth reading.
