https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7274337-the-invisible-bridge
The large cast of co-protagonists in Andras' circle of family and friends are GOOD people, noble and innocent, with few exceptions.
I suppose, and yet somehow I resent being emotionally manipulated by this kind of forced sympathy: it's just too easy, when unspeakable horrors happen to good people for no reason, especially when children are involved.
At the same time, in FICTION I want to read about tortured, flawed characters who don't always think politically correct thoughts or are likewise always charitable and forgiving.
He just climbed up onto my bed and snuggled up next to me and licked my tears away.The Invisible Bridge by Julie Orringer begins in 1937 with 22-year-old Andras Levi departing Hungary for Paris to study architecture after securing a scholarship at the Ecoles Speciale.
The Invisible Bridge pulled me in to Andras's life in Paris.
I did, I admit, put the book down for hours at a time, too afraid to keep reading for what might happen, but I always went back and pressed onwards.
However, if you want a thought-provoking, beautifully-written story that will wash over you like a warm bath..then this is for you.
There were times in this book where I had to set it aside..because I just felt like I needed a break (this book was pretty lengthy).
This book however, was not a book I wanted to rush through.
It felt as if the author wanted to take me on a journey, and I was going to let her.
They were characters you just want to love and root for.
This is not just another wwII holocaust read.
This is an epic story.
It's 1937 pre war Hungary.
Three brother's lives are diverging.
At the core, is the story of one brother, Andras, who goes to Paris to study.
Then the horrific war begins.
The atmosphere is heavy - laden with sadness, grief, devastating loss and yet, the impossibility of hope and faith.Beautifully and stylistically written, this is a valuable read to add to the wwII era of unforgettable novels.
It is remarkably well written whose 600 pages read as 300.Highly recommend but know this will be an emotional one.
The Twelve Days of Reading The Invisible Bridge: A NovelOn the first day of reading this, the though
Excellent Historical Fiction.UPDATE 2015: Here is another book I read 5 years ago...
Read it when it first came out - then a couple years later with my Jewish book club.
I'm sitting here - today - reading.
You just won't be bored for a second.
( actually reminds me of another book I finished just 10 minutes ago).
As far as lush storytelling ..Treat yourself and read all the many great reviews..
if in the mood for a page turning historical fiction..
And WHY has the author not written another book yet?
I'd read her in a second.
Super knjiga! Mnogo je volim... Četiri godine sam pokušavala da joj nađem dom u Srbiji... Najpre uzme jedan urednik... napusti izdavača, izdavač otkaže prava... Ubedim drugog, pošalje ponudu, odobre mu prava, dođe mu novi urednik i otkaže prava... Ubedim trećeg, njemu počnu da traže sumanute pare za prava, on odustane... I na kraju, kad sam počela da gubim nadu, uzme je Alnari...
When I heard my real life reading group chose it as our opening read for the new reading year - assuming at that moment the novel entirely fictionalised – I admit wrestling with my own personal bias towards the book, thoughtlessly inclined to classify it as another book by a young American author having written a fictionalised Holocaust tale, with a syrupy love story at the centre - or another novel in the line of The Book Thief or Everything is Illuminated.
For a long time I thought the author was writing about members of her own family so idealised and sentimentalised were the depiction of all the relationships in this novel.
Sometimes you have to wonder if setting a novel during WW2 and employing Jews as central characters isn’t just an easy way for an author to shoehorn into the narrative a huge amount of pre-supplied dramatic tension.
Those moments that reveal the vulnerable and touching humanity of characters are completely absent in this novel.
Everyone in this novel is uncommonly gifted.
Also, I can’t think of a single reason why this novel needs to be 758 pages long.

This is an old-fashioned novel, even an epic, in the tradition of "War and Peace": great storytelling (set in a tumultuous time), developed characters and good writing.
The first light of day came through the delicate endive leaves of their ears ...." "the round blue tin that held a minestrone of buttons ..." "His [a baby's] hands opened into starfish." These are just passages I remember offhand; I didn't mark any.If I have any complaint, it's that the love story (before the war) was too romance-y for me, though I understand why it was vital to the development of the characters and the hardships of the plot.
You know why books about WWII never get old? Because humanity *still* hasn't seemed to learn the most basic lessons: policies based on hate, evil, and intolerance never end well. Sigh...This book was a bit too long, but told the story from the unique perspective of Hungarian Jews during WWII. Even if a person in Europe during the war years never saw a battlefield or an "official" concentration camp, life was nothing short of a living hell.4 stars
Gay characters are sensitive, easily identifiable (They like silk!), meek and troubled, maternal, and seem to exist only so Andras and his crew (and by extension, the author) can impress us with how forward thinking they are.
In white guilt land, we don’t need to learn any of those things—we only smile about how wonderful it is that Orringer gave us a pretty, bright African woman whom everyone loves, and nobody knows.Orringer never gets inside her characters.
Excellent for my first read of the year.
An epic story of WWII, building on the coming of age tale of a young Hungarian man about to travel to Paris to begin his studies to become an architect.
The year is 1937.
Orringer provides a wonderfully full story, rich in detail new to me in spite of prior knowledge of the era.
I found myself thinking of Dr Zhivago as I read of some of the descriptions of Hungarian towns and rural camps.All in all, The Invisible Bridge is one of those rare books that has lived up to the advance rave reviews I'd read and heard in the past.
You know how those Holocaust movies come out every few years, and they are very serious-minded, and everyone gives them awards because, let's face it, it's pretty easy to make a compelling movie when you've got a story with this kind of dramatic weight to tell, but sometimes, if you're being honest, you think "oh man, not another one," which is horrible, because these stories were based on things that really happened, terrible things, and am I an asshole for thinking that I just can't sit through yet another movie with a scene of a bunch of people crying and being shoved onto train cars, and you honestly can't even say if the movie is good or not anymore because at this point it's all just formulaic button pushing?
Although there are brief glimpses backwards and forwards, most of the 750-page book is set during the years 1937–45, as Andras Lévi travels from Budapest to Paris to study architecture, falls in love with an older woman who runs a ballet school, and – along with his parents, brothers, and friends – has to adjust to the increasingly strict constraints on Jews across Europe.A story of survival against all the odds, this doesn’t get especially dark until the last sixth or so, and doesn’t stay really dark for long.
Even in labor camps, there are flashes of levity, like the satirical newspapers that Andras and a friend distribute among their fellow conscripts, while the knowledge that the family line continues into the present day provides a hopeful ending.This is a flawless blend of family legend, wider history, and a good old-fashioned love story.
I was 300 pages into this book, when I realized the four Jewish young men were still in Paris, nothing of significance was happening, and the war had not yet begun.
I was so bored at this point that I found myself anxiously awaiting the Holocaust.
It is a standard, predictable Holocaust story, that manages to make even World War II look dull.
I guess I dont find any of the characters more than cardboard, and the central love story unconvincing, and (dare I say it) silly.
This book came highly recommended, and I had been very much looking forward to reading it, so I am all the more disappointed.
Even though much of what happens is horrendous, the book does not leave the reader feeling sad and without hope.
I must pay attention when you tell me to read a book.On page 367: Here is just one example of lines that get me thinking.
You experience Paris and Budapest and I don’t yet what other cities will be added!
They print a newspaper, but to know what is in this paper you have to read the book.
Andras, the middle brother, is off to study architecture at the Ecole Spéciale on a scholarship.
One reason why Tarantino's Inglourious Basterds was such a breath of fresh air was QT's refusal to treat his sacrosanct material with kid gloves—the movie plays more like a Spaghetti Western than a respectable middlebrow product, and that unexpected perspective allowed him to tell a story with more verve and poignance in any one of its five chapters than in the whole of The Invisible Bridge.
But Tarantino's film ought to be the standard-bearer for any contemporary artist who wants to tell a story about Jews in World War II.
I had read great review of this book and waited a long time with anticipation for this book to come out as a trade paperback.
But mostly I thought Orringer did a great job of conveying what it must have felt like to be Jewish and in Hungary during World War II.
I did not know much about Hungary's role during the war other than that many Jews had been killed.
Orringer conveyed the horror and absurdity of the war from a specific historical point of view and from a very human point of view.
There are some books that you read and forget about.
Then there are some, like The Invisible Bridge, that linger and linger.IMHO, the book makes me think about "what if everything were to suddenly change?" What if I were ripped from my comfortable, everyday life and put into a situation of escalating deprivation?
What if I were a Hungarian Jew in 1944/45?How could I maintain my humanity in the face of indifferent evil?
The evil might not exactly be indifferent since it was sincerely dedicated to my extermination, but perhaps indifferent to my thoughts, feelings and pain?
There have been scores of books that have addressed this topic but this one somehow resonated more than the others.
Newcomer Orringer provides a great saga of two Hungarian Jewish families before and during World War 2.
The progression to the Final Solution was a much more insidious, slow progression for Hungary, which retained some independence from Germany until the last year of the war.
Instead, there was a long period of conscription of male Jews into brutal work camps, which is the fate of many of the characters in the novel.
The lives of Andras, an architecture student in Paris, his love Klara, a ballet teacher, and his brother Tibor, who studies medicine in Italy, are a wonderful focus for a long, engaging and satisfying story, which like the best of novels, has the full spectrum of life as its canvas.
It was rapidly falling into the category of chick-lit for me -- lots of relationship buildup, budding romance, young handsome talented man, mysterious woman, etc., light on the "historical." At one point I feared it was devolving into melodrama.
At about the halfway point of the novel, though, the tone shifted, and it became a much better book with real depth.
I've read a lot of WWII fiction, but seldom one that I found as moving as this one, and never have I read about Hungary's role in WWII.
It is so much more, and you the reader, can see it and feel it...the words make you think...by describing one task of cutting down a tree, the author is teaching.We all know how the story ends...the war ends, but you now have a chance to live their lives, without fear, from the beginning to the end.
Filled with life, survival, sacrifice, inspiration, humor, love, heartache, devastation, courage, strength, friendships and family...this book has it all and it will teach you so much more than just another social lesson on the injustice of this horrific time in history.
The problem is that their story deserved to be told by someone who will not write it as a smaltzy, humorless, endless slog.I have a real problem when character's are so in love or have such bond that they never seriously argue and they read each other's minds as if this proves that theirs is the greatest relationship the world has ever known.
About half way through the book (and I'm not sure why it took me this long) I started to notice that Orringer belabors so many points that she tells the reader what to think rather than letting the reader draw their own conclusions based on the dialog and actions of her characters.
But then in the second half of the book (the first takes place in Paris, the second in Hungary), you think back to the characters you met at the beginning, who and where they were, and you are broken by what they've become and what's happened to them.
And more than any book I've read lately, you are very present with the characters.
p. 489 Strange, Andras thought, that war could lead you involuntarily to forgive a person who didn't deserve forgiveness, just as it might make you kill a man you didn't hate.
The author spends hundreds and hundreds of pages delving into the almost daily lives of the protagonist and his friends and family before the war, allowing the reader to know the characters so well that it would be difficult to maintain any sort of distance or aloofness from their eventual hardship and pain.
He is an extremely well developed character, and through him the reader gets to know his love, Klara (the many ups and downs and complications of the courtship is rendered in extensive detail, and while that section drags on a bit, it also creates a much more realistic love story than can be found in many novels) their families, Andras' close friends in Paris, and many others.
One could easily visualize how life was lived prior to the war, as well as the brutality and suffering during the wartime.
Orringer's characters seemed real as they lived through ordinary daily activities, struggled later to maintain dignity and solidarity with family, spouses and friends.
How each dealt with indescribable cruelty or indifference gave a good view of her sharp insight into human nature.
She deftly intertwined her telling of historical facts with the suffering of people while maintaining a sense of suspense and realism.It was clear to me that Orringer had researched her facts and materials well.
It would be good to learn more about their lives.
I learned so much, cried so much and felt the deep agony of family, love, art, tradition and memories ravaged by the horrors of war.
Part love story (sometimes a little overly precious) part war saga, the reader travels from luscious light-filled Paris with its promise of future to the strangled dread and terror of Budapest.
I had every possible emotion and reaction to this book.
Every character that was good was ever self-sacrificing, strong and unwavering in times of peril and only displayed qualities that every person on earth would love to possess.
There were 'bad' or evil characters because every story needs a vice or two.
It was like love, he thought, this crumbling chapel: It had been complicated, and thereby perfected, by what time had done to it.3.5 stars.This novel shows us how slow the descent into hell can be - the writing fits it perfectly, there is no dramatics or shouting.
I loved that we see that normal life still goes on even in the worst of times, and you can really see, smell and experience the streets of WWII Budapest through her vivid descriptions.
I also loved all the small acts of protests described throughout the book.
If you enjoy historical fiction, especially WWII, I recommend this book.
