https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33476.Comics_and_Sequential_Art
Part of me wishes I would have read this one first, because compared to Understanding Comics, this book falls short on the meta-delivery of the information.
In Understanding Comics, the entire book is itself a comic book, which uses comic book and sequential art precepts to communicate the instructional and educational components.
In Comics and Sequential Art, the entire book is narrative and extant examples taken from Eisner's own creations (with one or two exceptions).I can see how McCloud was influenced by this book, and how revolutionary and revealing it may have seemed.
Excelente para quem busca saber um pouco mais sobre teoria de quadrinhos e arte sequencial.
Despite reading a lot of comics, and feeling like I have a vague sense of their history and development, this book caused me to look at the actual composition of comic books in a completely different way.
A lot of the things discussed feel like common sense, like the portion that focused on how readers' eyes move across the page, but it was explained in a manner which not only brings the matter to the reader's attention, but forces them to analyze it and comprehend the idea on a much higher levelWhile I had no difficulty reading the book,the style of writing is my only complaint.
This book provides a lot of ideas for reading comics at a deeper level. It is well illustrated with examples from Will Eisner's "The Spirit" series. The only downside is that it tries to cover too much ground, so some sections are very light. If I were the editor, I probably would have cut all of the digital comics stuff, and focused the book more on the structure of comics.
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)This is one of the three instructional books written by Will Eisner. The other two are Graphic Storytelling and Visual Narrative and Expressive Anatomy for Comics and Narrative.The book focuses on the creation of comics and the various techniques one can use. Specifically, it talks about the why the techniques work and the concepts behind. The various lessons touch on timing, framing, composition, expressive anatomy, writing for comics and other application of c
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)This is one of the three instructional books written by Will Eisner.
The other two are Graphic Storytelling and Visual Narrative and Expressive Anatomy for Comics and Narrative.The book focuses on the creation of comics and the various techniques one can use.
The various lessons touch on timing, framing, composition, expressive anatomy, writing for comics and other application of comics.Every page of comics included that serve as examples come with captions.
One example would be to tilt a composition of a moving train to simulate the rocking on the tracks.How Will Eisner uses his panels and framing is amazing.
I went to a local comic book store to buy something for my sister (Fables: Animal Farm--Those of you who like topsy-turvy fairy tale stuff will probably enjoy this) and wanted to pick up a book for myself about drawing (a new, but very engaging activity for me) or a comic with illustrations that I liked.
I flipped through a bunch of things at the counter and handed the guy at the counter a stack of things I didn't want and couldn't seem to put back in their protective plastic bags without getting the tape stuck on their covers.
In the stack of items I handed to him was this Will Eisner book--still in its plastic cover.
Wow, hmm, I currently feel like the worst comics fan in the world--but I actually didn't like this book at all.
I found it just hard to read, even though it's a pretty short one.
I'm sure in it's day, it was a groundbreaking book, and I'm very grateful to it for being one of the first to treat comics with academic respect, but I just find it hard to swallow now.
I strongly suggest reading Scott McCloud's "Understanding Comics" instead, for a much more useful, comprehensive, and at the same time much more fun read.
"The sequential artist 'sees' for the reader because it is inherent to narrative art that the requirement on the viewer is not so much analysis as recognition." — Is it really, though?
All of his examples are from his own work, including some embarrassingly racist bits; instead of a celebration of comics, this book comes across as a celebration of himself.
He lectures dogmatically, rather than leaving his readers space to make up their own minds.
This book offers some really nice insights into the structure of comics, but it's an introduction, not a comprehensive overview.
I'm beginning to think I'm becoming desensitized to a lot of these drawing books. They all have something solid and good to say about comics and art and what-have-you, but after a while it all starts to repeat. Still, some good stuff in here, especially if someone doesn't know anything about comics.Just try to ignore the blatant racism in some of Eisner's sample comics. They were written in the 40s and 50s, after all.
3.5 starsI read this for class. It wasn't the most interesting book ever but it was enjoyable. I found that some of the example comics were actually a bit confusing because I didn't always understand the story.
A very inspiring and informative read. It's hard not to recommend this book (and Scott McCloud's Making Comics) to anyone interested in the sequential art field. Reading them has set a foundation to a lot of things that I used to do by instinct. Totally recommended.
Though I'd say it's more for the artists than the writers of the medium, I found this book interesting and informative. Its contents include imagery, timing, the frame, and writing. I'll definitely be keeping Eisner's pointers in mind. I also enjoyed the examples of comics throughout the book.
I read the 2008 edition.
Тому що усі книги, які ви прочитаєте після неї, розкажуть вам приблизно те саме, тільки краще.Мені не пощастило і я прочитав Comics and Sequential art після двох книг Скотта Макклауда (власне, саме з рекомендацій Макклауда я і дізнався про неї).
Особисто мені здався цікавим і корисним розділ WRITING & SEQUENTIAL ART, у якому Айснер розмірковує про взаємодію сценариста і художника.
Загалом, отримати задоволення і максимальну користь від ці книги можна за умови, що це ваша перша книга з теорії коміксів - це хороша стартова точка для розуміння цієї художньої форми, після якої можна переходити до більш поглибленого вивчення (наприклад, Making Comics того ж Скотта Макклауда).
This is a book where a master of the comic artform explains how to tell a story in images and a few words.
Several different expressions of a specific scene, such as a backshooting in an alley are given and the differences explained.
No artistic ability is needed to understand why if the figure getting shot in the back is depicted the proper way, there needs to be no text telling the reader that he was shot in the back.
My favorite section of the book is another expression of the Shakespearean story of Hamlet.
Whether you are an aspiring comic artist or are just interested in how they are created, this book will pique your interest.
DNF.
Will Eisner is one of those names one risks accusations of sacrilege when criticizing.
My only exposure to him were some Spirit reprints followed by a few interviews in comic fans magazines.
Maybe it was a wrong impression on my part but Eisner's personality came across as too authoritative, a kind of my-way-or-no-way approach.
I'm sure he has a good reason for feeling this way, but it came across as too crotchety to me.
I'll give the man props for what he accomplished, except for the Ebony White character, but otherwise I didn't feel like I'd enjoy spending time alone with him.
Read in preparation for the 24-Hour Comic ReadathonThis is a very technical looking at what makes the comic reading experience so unique, and some techniques so you aren't just doing an illustrated novel or motion picture without sound.
It's got a lot of practical knowledge and has quite an academic slant to it.
It's got a fair amount of application and "things to consider", as well as plenty of examples from Will Eisner's oeuvre.
For someone so steeped in comics it is weird (read stupid) that I have read this book this late.
Eisner was a genius but this book showed me beyond his artistic ingenuity; he was an educational genius also.
Although they are so ingrained in the current rules of thumb of making comics it might all sound obvious; the way the whole book makes a statement about how to handle sequential art still invokes a lot of thinking (at least on my part).
3.5. Un libro sobre teoría del cómic. Se centra en la composición de este y ayuda a que el lector aprenda a tener una mirada más profunda al leer este medio. Lamentablemente, estaba contrarreloj mientras lo analizaba para mi tesis, pero aún así me dejó varios puntos en los cuales reflexionar, principalmente sobre los elementos que lo conforman. Es una guía corta y didáctica para quien quiera ir un poco más allá en su lectura de cómics, a la que se puede volver siempre que uno quiera recordar o continuar aprendiendo.
This book will not take an undistracted person two months and a day to finish. I honestly wish I had sat down and given it the evening's concentration that it requires, because it is a very useful work for anyone interested in storytelling, even if they're not particularly focused on a visual medium.
An excellent and surprisingly technical and conceptually rich take on sequential art. Marketed as a how to book for aspiring comic artists, I enjoyed it as a contemplation of the art of representation in general. Eisner's passions and strong opinions come through despite the 'how to' feel of the format. Deceptively dense.
Written by the master comic book pioneer. Valuable for anyone who wants to tell their story visually; illustrators, storyboard artists and directors. As a comic book artist and pioneer of the Graphic Novel, Eisner articulates analytically why certain choices work and thinks cinematically as well. Highly recommended. A classic.
A seminal work that explores and dissects the language and intent of graphic prose. Eisner borders on the academic, yet manages to keep things flowing in a manner that illustrates his points with precision.
Interesante estudio sobre la creación de cómics, bastante útil para los que quieran dedicarse o quieran intentar hacer un cómic, ya que da claves que hay que tener en cuenta.
This is the original text on how to create comics, a little dated in places, but I found it helpful to gain a basic understanding of how comics work from a technical perspective.
This book was very original.
The most academic book on comics, a nice effort!
Prejudicada pela tradução, a mensagem essencial transmitida é a da "gramática visual" - compreender e representar fácil, clara e sinteticamente os gestos e as emoções humanas.
One of the most comprehensive looks on the subject by one of its greatest practitioners.
The simplicity and elegance of this book is astonishing. It is exemplary of distilled analysis and understanding of the medium, and gives worth to its author's eminence.
