https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127233.The_Life_of_the_Mind
This she says is a fallacy, and I see her point.Arendt takes Immanuel Kant seriously when she says, “No eliminating of errors or dispelling of illusions can arrive at a region beyond appearance.” At best, as the Pragmatist philosophers have demonstrated, we are engaged in an endless search for the truth about the world.
- Disfavour shown towards individual members of the tribe is a sign of corrective regard and does not imply permanent exclusion.- The only real evil in the world exists outside the tribe.- Politics is a business that is inherently corrupt and diminishes the value of life the more it is engaged in.Obviously there are any number of other elements that are consistent with these but I think they capture the totality of the Idiot Savant.
A very interesting account of what do we do when we think.
Why do we think at all?
Why do we think at all?
Arendt recognizes 3 basic mental activities – thinking, willing and judging.
It is a pity Arendt didn't have time to finish this work, she died, left it unfinished, and it was edited by her friend Mary McCarthy.For those interested in thinking, its origins and explanations, I highly recommend it.
Quotes: "For thinking, withdrawal from the world of appearances is the only necessary precondition.
In order to think about somebody, he has to be removed from our presence.
One of the most impressive philosophy books. She takes simple observations about thinking and the thought process from everyday life(some might call it phenomenology) and draws radical conclusions as well as reaffirming the importance of a philosophic approach to the everyday. I like to reread it once every few years.
Fascinating. But so difficult to read at times that I had to read it aloud to myself to keep from getting confused. I am not proud of that.
"Everything that can see wants to be seen, everything that can hear cries out to be heard, everything that can touch presents itself to be touched."-from book one, "Thinking"
Most of my favorite authors are mentioned in this book: Kant, Wittgenstein, Plato, Aristotle, Schopenhauer, Heidegger, Nietzsche, Hegel, Aquinas, Augustine, Spinoza, Plotinus, Lucretius, Thucydides, Herodotus, Bergson (she really likes Bergson and his ‘lived time’, I haven’t actually read Bergson, but I have read ‘The Physicist and the Philosopher’ available on Audible), Husserl and so on.
She says that because she really doesn’t like what she labels as nihilism and any part of Nietzsche or Heidegger that flirted with that she was going to be negative towards for obvious reasons (see her book ‘The Origins of Totalitarianism’ for clarification).
Originally conceived in three parts, Thinking, Willing and Judging, but not completed at the time of her death, this is perhaps Hannah Arendt's most difficult work.
Cetainly the initial section on Thinking took a long time to read and a lot of reflection to follow all of her arguments.
Willing the second section seemed easier, since the activities of the will have been much discussed by Nietzsche and Heidegger for example.
The last section Judgement is the shortest and is based upon lecture notes on Kant.Personally I find Hannah Arendt's work very satisfying to read.
Oh, with or without Hannah I'm never going to graduate.
Yes, it goes to great lengths to make the moves of an academic work, but underlying all the citations and writing structure is nothing less than a celebration of philosophical thought, and a warning against what our society would be if we became unthoughtful.
In one passage Arendt remarks that, at least philosophically, we could see our lives as entirely a dream of our own making, only waking as our life ends.
i’m using the tone hannah arendt raises to meet any and all challengers to her precious aristotelian legacy.
one (and by “one” i really mean “i”) can’t help getting stuck on the whiplash contradictions where arendt’s study and biography should intersect: how a textbook anti-totalitarian ethic hews with strange fidelity to the hegelian notion of an individual subordinated to some god-like totality.
such crushing social conservatism aside, arendt is a pretty clear and inspired writer slash thinker.
also i totally didn’t expect arendt to implement such varied uses of the concept of “phenomenology,” i wish her excitement for bergson and merleau-ponty took her elsewhere than kant.
In a discussion of Duns Scotus, the esteemed 'subtle doctor' of medieval theology, Arendt here at some point quotes Pico della Mirandola, who was reputed to have remarked of himself: "Pledged to the doctrine of no man, I have ranged through all the masters of philosophy, investigated all the books, and come to know all the schools".
On a purely personal note, it doesn't help too that Arendt's The Human Condition, which is perhaps one of my favorite books of all time (and to which this also constitutes a kind of sequel), is simply so much more interesting than The Life of the Mind as a whole.
Twoness takes places as an inner dialogue between the self and an other in the activity of thinking, but always comes back to the gap opened up between what was and what will be, as the mind attempts to secure what is in an eternal present.Willing, on the other hand, takes up the question of whether the will exists at all, and if it does what does it mean for the concept of human freedom.
This is Arnedt at her most lucid, eloquent, thought-provoking, and interestingly, most erudite state of mind.
It took a long time for me to get through the first section (Thinking), but once I did, the following two sections on Willing and Judging seemed ten times easier; partly because you get used to her prose, her jargons, her way of thinking, analyzing and approaching things, and partly because the content of these two sections are not as dense, and unfortunately, due to her untimely death that left the book unfinished, are not as comprehensive.
But all in all, this is definitely a unique book with the capacity to challenge some of your most-dearly-held ideas on how the mind works which you'd thought you knew so well after reading Heidegger and Nietzsche.
Arendt takes up where Kant's Critique of Pure Reason stops, showing how "reason" goes beyond conceptual knowledge.
Knowing that Arendt was one of Heidegger's most important students, you can see places where she is pointing toward Heidegger's non-representational 'thought' as the path beyond knowledge and into the unknowable metaphysical realities.
Most philosophers accept that Kant has limited knowledge and that the rest, the questions of metaphysics, cannot be known as scientific knowledge.
But really Kant's delimitation of scientific knowledge frees our search to go beyond representational thought to a higher mind.
Well written and thought out.
Great book about thinking as viewed by philosphers over the ages.
I especially like her statement that The present is slippery, the now changes to then, the past, and ahead is the future approaching but not yet there.
We live in between the past and the future.
The present is a life-long fight against the dead weight of the past while hope drives one forward.
Yet fear drives man backward toward the quiet of the past and memory of the reality one can be sure of.
Another favorite of mine is the staement by Epictetus that philosophy teaches us the art of living.
Easy to read? Not so much, but if you enjoy summaries of major philosophies you may find it fulfilling. I wish Arendt had contributed more of her personal thoughts on the matter instead of just giving a history of philosophy.
Begriff- Reason. The German thought-experiments, fearsome in their density. The Raskol- sovereign trickster, white shaman, standing outside the community, representing it in the animal and planetary consuls, delivering their edicts.
This book will change the way you think. Arendt focuses on the space of being, the appearance of self that others see. Its a lengthy book, but you'll want to take a while to read it so you can digest what the author is saying.
4.5
Fairly intense
An excellent survey of the history of Western thought as told from one of the most brilliant minds of the 20th century.
Just brilliant, and superbly edited by Mary McCarthy after the author's death.
Each page takes me days
Mind blowing !
what makes us think ?
I read it once a long, long time ago. This time, understanding more about the context of the book, I found it insightful and fascinating.
The title may suggest an inner-looking autobiography of a person with a retiring personality, but Hannah Arendt was certainly not of that vein: instead, this book is an inquiry into how the human mind thinks, wills, and acts on its thoughts.
The thought process is broken into thinking, willing, and judging although Arendt (who did in the 1970’s) did not live to finish the final phase.
There is an interesting analogy to time, where pure thinking takes place in a sort of undefined but ‘eternally present’ tense, willing refers to the future, and judging to reflections on the past.
i found this text very useful in helping to understand some of arendt's other texts (eg. eichmann in jerusalem + origins of totalitarianism). easier to read and helps explain a lot of the background thinking behind the concepts she describes in her other books.
Interesting read. Good to see a distinction between 'truth' and 'meaning'. Essentially an argument as to why Science needs Philosophy.
