https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21323.Cold_Fire_Hideaway_The_Key_to_Midnight
I spotted this novel on an author recommendation list so I got it from the library. It is totally different from the novels I am accustomed to reading by him. This was not a supernatural tale. Rather, he explored dramatic adventure with a little romance and mystery thrown in. I enjoyed reading it.
Donated to Smith Family charity march 2015
the first story, was not very goodthe second story, was still not good, but not as badthe third story, was good.
This is the first book I've read by Dean Koontz and let me just say that it was great. Amazing. Page-turning, edge-of-your-seat astounding. And for me, that's saying something. Normally I wouldn't like a book like this, but  The Key to Midnight  was just plain amazing. It had everything a book needed; suspense, mystery, death, plot twists and more. Maybe even a love interest here or there. It's Koontz's clever word play that made me want to read for hours on end.   This novel,  The Key to Midni
This is the first book I've read by Dean Koontz and let me just say that it was great.
This novel,  The Key to Midnight  by Dean Koontz is about a woman named Joanna Rand.
He watches Joanna perform and after a few nights, recognizes her as a missing person from twelve years earlier.
I suggest this book to anyone who is in to mysteries and thrillers with a bit of love and lust.
With characters such as Joanna Rand, Mariko and Alex Hunter, the book lightens up and opens a whole new visual on why people make the decisions they do.
This was the first Dean Koontz read, and it will be my last.
On the positive side, Koontz is an excellent writer, with all the skills to create compelling prose, and he does.
He is also adept at creating a story line, bit I found "Cold Fire" rediculous and not the least bit thrilling or frightening.
If I want fantasy, I will read that genre.
Apparently, Koontz has a long line of fans who would disagree with me, and that is good, as any reader can respect that there are writers for all of us.
I read these and several others by Dean Koontz when I was a teenager.
I enjoyed them then.
I seemed to be far more immune to horror then than I am now.
I used to actually enjoy it.
I can't tolerate it at all now.
I couldn't tell you what has changed because I haven't a clue.Despite my issues with horror, I tried to read a novel by Koontz more recently just to pass the time.
I couldn't get into it at all.
I don't know if Dean Koontz has changed or I have.
EDITORIAL REVIEW: "Dean Koontz is not just a master of our darkest dreams, but a literary juggler." --*The Times* (London). In this compilation of chilling tales, he continues to captivate with complex characters and riveting suspense. A psychic and a reporter do battle with an unseen enemy in *Cold Fire*, while *Hideaway* explores the meaning of death and the transcendent power of love. In *The Key to Midnight*, published in hardcover for the first time, a woman awakes to find that her identity and memories have been manufactured for her.
Koontz at his best
good collection for Koontz fans
i loved this book so much
Just started it , but Dean Koontz is one of my favorite authors
