https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/840163.Flight_of_the_Old_Dog
This was a Cold War novel I started but didn’t finish in the late 1980s.
The Old Dog was a B-52 that had been upgraded with all the best technology of the late 1980s and some that were imagined like like the X-ray laser Star Wars project.
The twist in this book is that the Soviets had gotten ahead of the US in laser technology and created a huge ground based radar and orbiting mirror to use in defense.
Indecision by the American president and lack of preparedness leads to this 35 year old plane picking up the slack.

First book I read by Dale Brown. An incredibly engrossing story. The characters are interesting and identifiable (you truly find yourself caring about them), the narration is first rate (you'll actually feel as if you're in the old B-52), and the pace is breathless.
This book has 416 pages, and it was published by Berkley Books. I decided to read this book because it is heavily based on aircraft, which I appreciate because my father, who was a sergeant in the Air Force, recommended this book to me. This work was a New York Times Bestseller. The main character of this book is Captain Patrick McLanahan, a B-52 navigator; however, General Elliot of the Dreamland projects can be classified as the other main character. Both men work together on the critical miss
The main character of this book is Captain Patrick McLanahan, a B-52 navigator; however, General Elliot of the Dreamland projects can be classified as the other main character.
Plenty of other characters work with McLanahan and General Elliot.
All the relevant characters of this story work for the United States Air Force.
The setting of this book is in the United States, the Pacific Ocean, and Russia.
The book was aerial combat-based and emphasized the details of the operations of the aircraft.
I enjoyed the book for its intense action scenes and how the Old Dog’s crew socialized and worked together.
3.5
I believe I read this book while I was in 7th grade, after I had finished up with everything that Clancy had put out at that point, and was looking for something to fill the void.
The story was written and still takes place during the cold war, which unfortunately, I am JUST old enough to remember.
Brown made you believe in all the technology that was being incorporated into an old B-52, and retro-fitted for one mission to potentially save America.
BY FAR, my favorite book of Dale Brown's, although he has some other fairly good ones as well.
Fantastic Read!!
While this book was filled with copious amounts of tech specs and enough aeronautic jargon to make one feel like you are taking an aerospace engineering course.
It's always good to give enough information for the reader (especially one unfamiliar with the science) something to go on to understand what’s happening and why.
This is especially true with something as complex as flight and science behind the aircraft.
This book is sure to spark the interest of the most military or aircraft enthusiasts but if you’re looking for an in-depth characterisation or story I suggest look elsewhere.
The story of a stealth B-52. Yeah. It's exactly that stupid.What begins as just this author's pet "what if..." scenario just slides off a cliff as the book progresses. Apparently Dale Brown decided that anyone addled enough to accept the books premise would accept anything he threw at them.Brown throws plenty.For reasons known only to the author - a government project makes a stealth aircraft out of an airframe designed and built in the 1950's.Then the entire universe conspires to create a scenario that requires just such an aircraft.Against all odds, the book goes downhill after that.
Meh.Purely speculative military fiction makes a pretty interesting novel, if not entirely believable. Characters were cookie cutters, and the ending line made me want to vomit. Actually the ending line made me knock off one star.You cannot end a book on a happy romantic note between two characters that only showed mild interest in one another throughout the whole story. Perhaps 40 words were dedicated to their relationship in the whole 300ish pages. Sorry, the ending just kind of ruined it for me. good book otherwise.
I loved this book as a kid, most of my mates would be reading sciFi or Fantasy books but I would always look for something else. Stumbled across this book one day and it was a quick read. An old recondition bomber, an awesome crew and a mission from hell. The plot keeps you tense all the way to the end, throughout the story I was constantly blown away that the bomber and crew kept taking a beating and yet were still going. A good fun adventure, might have to re-read one day.
I read this book relatively soon after it was originally published and LOVED it.
I was so disappointed when I received it to discover it was an abridgement of the original.
The jargonese I loved in the original format was difficult to follow as well but that may have been me just being unhappy all the way around.I will get my saved copy out and re-read it now.
I still want to read the rest of the series and I thought the audiobook would get me back on track with the characters.
A reasonably good debut effort for this series. The story offers enough drama and the characters are interesting for the most part. Occasionally the author gets carried away with mind numbing techno babble but the reader can easily bypass these parts.
We do get to ‘meet’ Wendy at the start of the book, and her job knowledge is put on display throughout the course of the flight (view spoiler)[into Russia to destroy the laser facility (hide spoiler)], but I still felt like her development as a character and a person was secondary in relation to the male characters in the story.
It was a funny kind of ‘irony’ to read about how he could have shot the bomber down before breaking away and the crew of the Old Dog never even knew he was there until after he had fired his missiles [which ended up missing the target].
Excellent... enjoyed this book immensely
An outstanding debut that had me changed to the book for 48 hours. Wowzer.
Dale Brown knows how to tell a story! His level of detail puts you right inside the aircraft, when I was done reading, it felt as though my ears were ringing from all the cockpit noise. Great read!
Another series on which I'm up to date.
This is the best part of the McLanhan series, I read it many times, the others not, only the Day of the Cheetah, but it was much more sci-fi like to me.
Delving into a new genre and decided it did nothing for me. The story is okay but really it had not point for me
The first and Best McClanahan novel
Unlike other military-political novels, the hero of the story was a B-52. Hence "old dog". I enjoyed this book very much. I look forward to reading more of the books in the series.
You can red my review at http://world-of-sleuths.blogspot.com/....
This was a second reading for me. I read it in the late eighties. It was just as enjoyable the second time around. I have been a fan of Dale Brown's books since this one was released.
Dale Brown writes fantastical military air books, so stretches and leaves the realm of believability. But are good fun and keep a realistic flavor in procedures.
Dale Brown takes the reader back 30 years to the Cold War when tensions between the US and the USSR were high.
Some of the technology is also dated--the Star Wars missile defense initiative that was so favored by President Ronald Reagan, not to mention the aged B52 strategic bomber.
Brown correctly foresees stealth technology and the huge advantage it would offer years later in the skies over Bagdad.The first half of the book is really about Patrick McLanahan, his failing relationship with a woman, his sense of duty to support his parents struggling business.
Very exciting action scenes, and because it is set in the cold war era, you can't help but do a little stroll down memory lane with the Americans taking on the evil Ruskies!!!I know for a fact that I would have enjoyed reading this novel so much more 25 yeara ago.
The one unique aspect of this book is that Brown literally places his readers square in the cockpit of a B-52 bomber.
By the end of the book the reader has enough knowledge to know where all the instruments are, and what they are used for.
Americans discover the existence of a Soviet ground-based laser in the Kamchatka Peninsula.
Meanwhile, Gen. Bradley Elliott, commander of the High Technology Aerospace Weapons Center tests a unique B-52 bomber with the help of several young crewmembers.
The technology tested in the plane is fitted into two B-1 bombers that are sent to attack the Soviet laser after it destroys an American space defense satellite.
At the same time, terrorists attack HAWC, forcing Elliott and the Old Dog crew to launch immediately.
The crew push ahead with the B-1s' mission after they realize that they are the only remaining hope for destroying the laser.

I found it laughable that Clive Cussler quoted this book "Suspenseful and Spellbinding" (Unless he meant the final 50 pages or so).
This book had three sections I noted IMO...the first 100 or so was setting up the main story and it was okay.
The middle of the book I found extremely dry (unless you happen to be a member of the Air Force or perhaps some type of military background that can understand much of the jargon).
Compared to Cussler books (which I've read several) there was NO CONTEST...this one is not that compelling till the last section.

