https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1768393.The_Weather_in_the_Streets
There’s a strong suspicion this novel is largely disguised autobiographical – emphasized by the lavish attention to detail: every room and character and conversation, even when of minor importance, described in comprehensive and often unnecessary detail and giving the impression of a writer is so emotionally entangled in her story that she can’t distinguish the necessary detail from the superfluous.
This spans about a hundred pages and gratuitously lengthens and obfuscates the single important event that takes place – Olivia and Rollo recognize the sexual attraction they feel for each other.
Essentially I thought the material warranted a 200 page novel, not one of almost 400.
Ver a los padres envejecer y comprobar que el tiempo también ha pasado por ella, lleva a Olivia a replantearse qué ha pasado con su vida.
Un matrimonio frustrado, unas aspiraciones, impuestas socialmente, de ser madre no satisfechas, una vida bohemia sobreviviendo como secretaria de su amiga fotógrafa Anna...
El encuentro fortuito con un amor de la adolescencia hará que Olivia recorra un camino imprevisible.
Amistades que se afianzan y otras que desaparecen, el amor clandestino, la identidad de al mujer en los años 30, el aborto...
Blah blah a long Mariel book review later blah blah Olivia was last seen as if she was in her own bed, under the covers of some kind of consolation.
When I feel like if they had known someone who cares as much as I do it would have been a bit better.)I'm gravitating to stories about what happens to people when they talk to themselves too much.
So I didn't want to know what happened to Olivia.
I wanted to talk to her about some of the things I've noticed.
I wanted to her to go on being Olivia as Lehmann must have.
Things begin to change when she meet Rollo Spencer, whom she had fantasised about in her youth, on a train.Like so many other authors of this period I have found the real brilliance of Rosamund Lehmann is in the detail - her writing is exquisite - but her sense of time and place, her characterisation, and the way in which those characters speak to the reader is just excellent.
The way in which, for example, Rosamund Lehmann portrays Olivia's sister's children, as they play in the garden, in one small (not especially important) section is a fine example, it was just so beautifully written I was thoroughly impressed.
The Weather in the Streets is a sequel to Lehmann's earlier book, Invitation to the Waltz.
Here, Olivia, who in Invitation to the Waltz was a nervous debutante, is now older, though perhaps not much wiser; separated from her husband, she falls in love with the married brother of an old friend and embarks upon a tempestuous affair.
I found The Weather in the Streets even better than Invitation to the Waltz.
Olivia's inner monologues are brilliantly done, and Lehmann even slips into the first person for one section of the book, though the change is so unobtrusive that I almost didn't notice it.
Despite her apparently new appealing, Olivia is still the insecure and fearful creature who seeks approval and reassurance and, seeing Rollo after so many years arouse forgotten feelings in her, making her blunt and blind to the consequences of starting an affair with him.What I most enjoyed about this novel is the way it's written because it gives you a real glimpse of how an affair might start and what it would actually be like.
The book is no illusion, no sugary romance, no big drama, just life unfolded and steps taken and consequences to be dealt with.
A la intemperie me ha resultado una novela entretenida, con un personaje principal que me ha encantado y al que vemos crecer a lo largo de la historia.Aunque no he leído el anterior donde conocemos a los personajes siendo más jóvenes, he podido disfrutar de la manera de hacer de una autora que me ha llamado mucho la atención.Lo recomiendo a esos lectores que disfruten con las tramas de personajes, con aquellos libros que reflejan cierta sociedad de una época y que no esperan acontecimientos encadenados. Muy buena lectura.
The Weather in the Streets (kind of a sequel to Invitation to the Waltz) is a masterful, subtle, cruel, and fascinating look at a doomed love affair, and it's as effective and relevant today as it was when it was published, in 1936.
Lehmann's command of the English language is superb, and she writes magically about the joy and sadness of love, of landscapes and cities, of the seasons, of the divide between the classes.
Ambientada en el Londres de los años 30 nos habla de la vida de una mujer que se reencuentra con un antiguo amor. Es una historia muy intensa y humana que me ha maravillado. Os la recomiendo.Mi reseña: http://contandoteunlibro.blogspot.com...
(I'm currently reading My Brilliant Friend and it's recalling 1930s women writers like Lehmann and Antonia White so even though I read this in 2006, I'm posting the review here now)A sad look at the lies we tell ourselves...We know from the start that there can be no happy ending to this story, and the fact that we already know the journey that the characters are to take, works brilliantly.
Overall a sad book that still lingers in my mind.

This comes across, at first read, like some Bronte-Woolf hybrid.
I see that she came slightly later than Woolf.I liked this a lot.
How do we always feel stifled, unattractive?So much passion.
Fractured, because of the passion in it (like Frame?).
Woolf is more famous, I think, because she had that -- but in both of them -- the same anger.
Woolf writes with more control, I think those who have the natural gift always do.
In THAT sense, like Kafka (but Kafka is the greater artist of course, he possessed that intelligence in huge amounts) -- Kafka could do drama without drama, emotion contained in itself -- Lehmann cannot -- tries, fails, worries, flounders, succeeds.

Both Olivia Curtis novels gave me a jolt at the last page.
Seems like Rosamond Lehmann likes to show the "moment of clarity."An epiphany in the first book made the seemingly mundane into a significant moment.
An epiphany here made the so-called "best times of our lives" into something driven by petty motivations.
Awful (circumstance-wise) stuff dressed in nice language.
I like how this is a journey into murky grey area after the girl meets childhood crush set-up that directly recalls the events in the previous novel.All in all, engrossing and emotionally turbulent.
I read the whole book in one night.
Written as a sequel to the unforgettable "Invitation to the Waltz," this novel seemed dated. Despite the fact that the mores of the novel are more in line with today's views, it did not achieve that transcendence that "Waltz" did. In fairness, few novels do achieve such greatness. But, as it was a sequel, I suppose I had the expectation that it would.
Very hit and miss for me. Lehman is deft at identifying and describing pivotal emotional moments but often this novel rambled without much structure. In a nutshell, good writing spoiled by a lack of architecture.
I hate the premise: that Olivia gives herself over so utterly to this man, that she is in his thrall, and that she forgives him everything.
And I hate that Lehmann writes so well that I could't think of anything while I was reading this book other than Olivia's story and what would become of her.
Olivia is an utterly real, believable character.
I was so upset while I was reading this, because I hate the awful subjugation Olivia faces, but I was also endlessly impressed by Lehmann's mastery of prose, her creation of character, and her convincing plot.
¿Qué puedo decir? Tengo debilidad por las novelas del adulterio, y esta ha sido un gran descubrimiento. Si en Invitación al baile la autora nos introduce al personaje de Olivia, aquí lo desarrolla magistralmente y nos hace sentirnos partícipes, si no de las situaciones, sí de ese incierto camino a la madurez que termina quedando desdibujado. Leerlo ha sido simplemente una delicia.
3,5/5*
Somehow that magic which captured me in the first book was missing in this one.Olivia's story is continued in this book, which is definitely darker than the first one.
This is her story as she begins a love affair with a married man, Rollo Spencer, whom we had met in the first book.
The Olivia I knew and loved seemed to be completely gone - I can understand why she changed so much, yet I could not like her at all.
Had I read this as a stand-alone, I would have liked this much more.Despite my disappointment, I will definitely be reading more from the author .
This book was first published in 1936, so I can understand why the social reaction at that time was one of shock.
Set in England, the main character is a youngish lady being seduced by a married man of nobility.
Observation and identification with his young paramour in a public outing is what our man feared the most.
I kept thinking that if this was a black and white movie set in those times, it would have been a popular movie in England.
I'm not sure that it would have been popular anywhere else.
This should be required reading for any young woman who is attracted to a married man! A terrible warning of how things are likely to go. On the front of my edition there's a quote from Carmen Callil saying "The Weather in the Streets was our Bridget Jones's Diary." I don't think she's read Bridget Jones's Diary. Don't be misled. There's no humour here. It's brilliant, though, if you can take a little misery. Considering the storyline I don't think there's too much angst - again, unlike Bridget Jones.
The women are quite different from one another: Letty is a rather old-fashioned woman who lives alone in a “bedsitter”, that is until the building is sold to a religious African priest.
Marcia lives in her own house, isolated and somewhat lonely.The men, Norman and Edwin, also are different from one another.
Edwin frequents many churches but it seems he does this not because he’s especially religious, but rather because he likes the food and drink served afterward and delights in socializing with the other congregants.
Norman, on the other hand, lives in his own house and doesn’t socialize much.
Creo que se puede apreciar mejor en que mujer se ha convertido Olivia Curtis , tras diez años, despues de ese primer baile a los 17 años, ahora con 27 años es una mujer melancólica, más delgada y desde luego un poco descreida.
Escrita en 1936, creo que es una novela muy moderna, tanto en su historia como en la forma de Rosamond Lehmann, su estilo elegante y la sútil ironia carcajeandose de los estereotipos tan rigidos ingleses de aquella epoca, la convierten para mi en una maestra.
A chance encounter with the man who enchanted Olivia as a teenager leads to a secret love affair.
I was looking forward to this sequel to Lehmann’s exquisite ‘Invitation to the waltz’, but was disappointed.
It is beautifully written, and its candour was shocking in 1936 when it was published, but the plot is little more than the predictable chart of the affair.
Beware the sequel, I say.
The meeting of Olivia and Rollo in the first book is poignant, making us wish they could get together.
Having that wish granted years later seems such an attractive premise for a second novel, but – hang on – where’s the story?
I realise I had read this before and forgotten it.
I loved it on first reading.
This time, too, I couldn't put it down.
Rosamund Lehmann is such good storyteller, economical, subtle, moving you along with each chapter enough to keep the pace just right.
This time, though, I found the heroine self pitying.
She doesn't complain, it's only implied.
I know divorced women had a tough time back then, but even so, I found her short sighted and spineless.
I felt that the author was purposely showing the heroine in this light and wondered how much of this was autobiographical?
Not entirely bowled over by this book in my favourite genre. Main character Olivia is actually hard to like. The plot couldn't be more basic. The writing style is just so Katherine Mansfield, only she moves her prose right along, avoiding the need to take nearly 400 pages to tell a story. I found it interesting to speculate how readers in 1936 handled the affair and abortion in middle class and above society. Fair enough in France and Russia, Anna Karenina and Mme Bovary might display such things, but English novels rarely brought them into plain view.
Extraordinarily honest, sad and raw book. A novel that vibrates with all the feeling it was written with. A reminder that the way we feel is nothing new, that nothing is really new, except as a first experience. Olivia's character and the way the interior/ exterior narrative flits about acts also as a validation of how pain is so often absurd- so often made hyper-real by the mundane. Beautiful and timeless writing.
3,5 estrella. Creo que hay partes del libros que se hacen más pesadas de leer, por eso no le pongo más nota. Es un buen retrato de la diferencia de clases en en periodo entreguerras, además me parece que el final es un poco abierto no sé si tendrá otro libro que continuará con los mismos personajes.
Fabulous. One of my favourite books by a favourite author
