https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29095401-the-marriage-lie
During this period, Iris has a great support system.
Then there was Corban, Will's gym buddy/friend who, surprisingly, had never met Iris.
Corban is a tall, cover-of-a-magazine-handsome Black man.Turns out Corban was also the villain.
That Corban had his head blown to bits (while holding Iris hostage) was yet another message.
Subliminal, yet it re-calibrates perception of the black man.Do you want to know why I gave this one star?I have 3 Black sons who, prior to moving to the US for college, had the biggest afros.
Finally, a beautiful Black man as supporting cast, I said.
After a few longer books, I was looking for something to be a quick, thrilling read that I could get through in the blink of an eye, and here it was!My greatest pleasant surprise was how much I connected with the characters in this story.
Usually, when I’m reading psychological suspense, I enjoy the thrilling aspects but feel the character depth and development is lacking; not so here.
I also loved how it felt I was along the journey with Iris; I kept wondering just where we would end up, and while I didn’t feel this book contained a large twist, I was grateful for that.
I’m giving this book three and half stars, but it’s a really GOOD three and a half stars!
This book then becomes driven by Iris’s frantic chase of the truth, as she gathers shocking bits and pieces of her husband’s past and struggles to fit them all together.This story expertly poses the question: Can you truly know someone if everything they've ever told you about themselves is a lie?
The answers typically go like this: "Things a mortician would say!"While reading, I felt as though every single character in this book could have been neatly pressed inside one of those golden triangles of stereotypes on that pyramid.
Audiobook.....
"I can't take another moment of this parade of mourners" says Iris!
Me Either!Iris is exasperating to listen to.
he is supposed to be in Orlando....
I'm exhausted listening to Iris repeat herself - whine like a two year old - be rude to everyone around her- ( yucky verbally rude).
I just stopped caring about the story!
Iris is a psychologist.
Just frightening!!!
Just frightening!!!
2 stars FOR ME....at the same time I DO UNDERSTAND READERS ENJOYING THE PLOT...
THE SUSPENSE...THIS BOOK.
I was interested, too, but that whiny - repetitive voice of Iris's was too annoying.
NOT LIKE THE IRIS I KNOW!!
Surprisingly good thriller about a widow determined to find out about her late husband’s mysterious past.  Married to her husband Will for seven years, Iris couldn’t be happier. Her friends warn her that the seven year itch is approaching, but she and Will are still blissfully in love. Sounds too good to be true, right? Well when Will unexpectedly dies in a plane crash, Iris learns that the man she married was not the man she thought he was. She begins digging into her husband’s past and discov
Surprisingly good thriller about a widow determined to find out about her late husband’s mysterious past.
Married to her husband Will for seven years, Iris couldn’t be happier.
She begins questioning her entire marriage, and the more she discovers the more she learns about Will, the more she puts herself in danger.The Marriage Lie is a fast-paced, suspenseful, action-packed read filled with unpredictable twists and turns that kept me on my toes!
The plot is a bit over-the-top, but since it was different than so many of the thrillers I have been reading lately, I was able to turn off my inner critic and immerse myself in the fun!
Okay first off I am definitely all about how a book makes me feel while reading and after finishing it.
Have you ever felt like you were just reading a book just to finish it?
Although I did like the storyline and the characters which kept me interested enough to finish this book otherwise it was definitely a strange feeling for me!THE MARRIAGE LIE by KIMBERLY BELLE is a good domestic psychological thriller that had me pretty engaged and interested throughout the first half of this book.
So with that being said I am pretty sure that is why it just wasn't a better read for me.
But their safe heaven has been destroyed when Iris finds out that her husband was a victim of the plane crush, which he wasn’t supposed to take.
In contrast, it was quite a predictable one and sometimes even boring.Regarding Iris character, I found her nagging for crying throughout the story and telling everyone that her husband was alive.
She didn’t know hell lot things about her husband and she was OK with that?Seriously?
All in all, this ending was as mediocre as the whole story.
Although the story is not very original, it still had a few surprises. This book had my attention from the very beginning and kept it till the very end. I'm impressed, a very good read.
The Marriage Lie by Kimberly Belle is a 2017 MIRA publication.
The Marriage Lie is an outstanding domestic thriller that captured my attention from page one and never let go.
Did Will place Iris in danger?
This story, however, did not employ that slow, steady, atmospheric pacing some domestic or psychological thrillers use in these instances.
This book charges from the gate and maintains a breakneck speed, but still captures that atmospheric tone that makes your spine tingle with the anticipation, knowing something truly sinister is afoot.
The secondary characters are also well drawn and made a terrific supporting cast.
Wow! This was one rollercoaster ride of a great book! In fact, I am still feeling the adrenaline rush of that last sentence. Most definitely one of my favorite books I have read this year!
Wow- I can't. I can't. I CAN'T LISTEN ANYMORE!!I may look for the written version sometime, but this book is terrible on audio. Iris, with her whining, crying and oh my gosh...uh-uh, nope..
Iris Griffith always thought that her marriage to Will was secure.
Together they are celebrating seven years of marriage and are trying to start a family.
Will is a guest speaker in a business conference and leaves in the morning for Orlando.
Later that afternoon, Iris is notified that her husband was killed aboard a plane that crashed enroute to Seattle.
Iris begins to uncover inconsistencies in Will’s past and feels betrayed.
As her journey continues, she learns much more about Will’s past and clues are revealed.
The difference with this book is how well it is written, how quick paced the dialogue flows, how much the characters resonate with you and how personable they are.
As the story progresses you know, just know, that there cannot be a "happy ending" for this gal and you want there to be one.
I wanted to do fist pumps in the air and I am not a fist pump in the air kind of a person!
I definitely recommend this book.
It's fast paced, easy to read and something that you will enjoy especially by the beach in the summer time.

The audiobook version of this novel was great, the storyline and writing had me invested and the writing flowed nicely. A book about the ramifications of building a marriage on a bed of lies and the consequences of that. A few nice surprises along the way to keep the suspense and the pages turning. Also loved the ending!
After her husband's mysterious death, Iris Griffith begins to investigate whether her husband, Will, is the man she thought she knew, bringing her from Atlanta to Seattle as she tries to uncover his secretive past. A taut story with plentiful twists and turns, THE MARRIAGE LIE is a wild ride. Thanks to MIRA Books for an early copy of the novel.
I rolled my eyes too many times reading this book, that my eyes rolled out of my head.
The problem with a book that are about a super happy couple who have a great marriage and then one finds out that everything was a lie is that it is a little on the depressing side. Jilly's not a fan of depressing.Jilly likes funny, sarcastic, romantic, ass-kicking, paranormal, bloody, and twisty, but not really depressing.So, why did Jilly read this? Because she is obviously losing her mind, which should be clear by the way she is referring to herself in the third person.
Psychological thriller.Really enjoyed this book, in some parts became long and boring. Every character in this story has problems but you couldn't help yourself to like them. Romantic thrillers not my kind of books, this one was suggested to me, glad I read it. Answered all the questions at the end, surprising ending was shocking. Yes I would have done the same thing, but before...
Ugh I wanted that to be a little different that’s why this is only a 4 but I couldn’t put this book down.Iris and her husband Will are happily married until one day Will flies out on a job assignment and his plane goes down.
Who was the man she married?With the help of her brother and a lawyer friend she starts to piece some of these things together until someone finds out she is and wants her dead, too.
Definitely a psychological thriller but man I wanted that ending to be different!
Unputdownable! A page turning psychological suspense by a new to me author.
*Spoiler Free*  You can check this review with more details on my blog (x)  I’m currently accepting books to review: more info here (x) My rating: 2.5 out of 5 I’m sad that this book didn’t live up to my expectations. I was really excited with the synopsis since December when I knew this was coming out soon and when I finally got it in the mail in January I made it a priority.Unfortunately, I was disappointed.The book starts in a very romantic way and if you know me I like to read romantic book
Still, that feeling was destroyed when the story became predictable and took a route that I did not expect or liked.A little bit past the second half of the book I became bored and the main character, Iris, was also becoming annoying and repeating the same thoughts over and over again.
It had amazing moments but everything started to crumble towards the second half of the book and I’m sad that this turned into a boring and frustrating experience.
3.5 Stars.A page turner to be sure but the ending left me feeling a bit deflated and frustrated. I needed more.  "What's in Seattle? Besides rain and Starbucks and too much plaid, I mean." The following quote on Amazon/Goodreads is a bit misleading ... I'm sorry, it wasn't that shocking or twisted.   "Shockingly twisty, destined to become 2017’s most talked about psychological thriller!"  I know I am maybe nit-picking but the blurb and rave reviews led me to believe that this would be absolutely
3.5 Stars.A page turner to be sure but the ending left me feeling a bit deflated and frustrated.
I needed more.
"What's in Seattle?
Besides rain and Starbucks and too much plaid, I mean."
The following quote on Amazon/Goodreads is a bit misleading ...
Just that ending.
This one is for you Karen.I think I am getting very fussy in my old age with my reading.
I want a book to WOW me.
I don't want to be underwhelmed by it.
I have read 8 books so far this year and most of them have been only OK.
I had REALLY high hopes for this book, given the 5 star reviews found everywhere on GoodReads. While it was good, I wouldn't call it outstanding. The main character is annoying, and quite dumb at times. The story felt underwhelming until the very end, which was a nice twist, but not enough to save the book. I'd pass.
The first word that popped into my head after reading this book was "Wow"!!!
Iris Griffith's husband Will, is killed in a plane crash headed to Seattle; except that Iris thought he was on his way to Orlando.
Iris no longer knows who to trust or what to believe as her husband's deep secrets and well-hidden past throw her into a tailspin.
The Marriage Lie is a mesmerizing story, filled with characters who are multi-layered; loving and dangerous; trustworthy and dishonest; and the reader never knows which is which on this roller coaster of a ride!
I had high hopes for this book from its many high ratings.
It started with an intriguing concept and the suspense was good at the beginning.
Then the plot became overwrought and ridiculous.
The wife kept reminding us that she was a psychologist but failed to show much constructive thinking and was overly dependent on others.
She came across as immature.
I struggled with the book until the end, but angry at myself for doing so.
Too much repetition and cliches,and for me the story became too unbelievable and did not raise any sympathy for the characters.
Good twist right at the end though.
Exploring as often these things do the secrets that we keep and how we can never truly know the person next to us, The Marriage Lie follows Iris as she discovers that perhaps her husband was not so perfect after all..Starting with a plane crash in which it is claimed Will died, Iris in her grief just cannot accept that – especially as he was not supposed to be on that flight but a completely different one.
I read it in two immersive sittings and although I did have a clue about the outcome I was never entirely sure, Kimberley Belle keeps things randomly unpredictable and holds the attention.I liked Iris as a character, she was easy to get behind and The Marriage Lie as a whole was a highly satisfying read.
A very satisfying psychological thriller! Kept me thoroughly engrossed through the entire book! Definitely did not want to put this one down! I am a sucker for a good husband/wife suspense, and this one checked all the boxes!
I have had this book for ages, and for some reason or other, always decided on something else.
I don't want to say my instinct was right to avoid it, because it's not a bad book, but it's not very original either.
I was entertained, I should say, and the story moved fairly quickly.
Maybe my mistake was listening to the audio version, which had a less than excellent narrator.
I read a lot of crime fiction, and lately I am finding it harder and harder to find a book that really stuns and surprises me.
Anyway, decent book, bad narration.
