https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/323170.The_Hustler
And I knew within the first chapter of reading the words of Walter Tevis that all of it stemmed from here.“We go from disappointment to disappointment, from hope to denial, from expectation to surrender, as we grow older, thinking or coming to think that what was wrong was the wanting, so intense it hurt us, and believing or coming to believe that hope was our mistake and expectation our error, and that everything the more we want it the more difficult the having it seems to be.” This comes from the work of Alfred Hayes and it could quite easily have been written about Fast Eddie and his companions on the outskirts of society but at the heart of pool hustling in Chicago.The subject matter is treated without hysteria, without glamour, nobody really attempts to demonstrate that there's a better or more moral life out there somewhere, like the very best books of its kind there is no other world for these characters, you hustle pool or you stop living it's that simple and Tevis doesn't think so little of his readers that he feels the need to tack on a happy ending either.
And Sarah.
Cinque stelle per questo classico di Tevis che in una delle sue prime fatiche letterarie ci regala non solo una storia appassionante fatta di sale fumose, dolore e decadenze, ettolitri di scotch, piccoli e grandi criminali, biglie che si inseguono sul panno verde, lampade che vincono sul sole e improbabili amori tra reietti, ma ci consegna anche due giganti della letteratura americana, due personaggi mitici come Fast Eddie Felson e Minnesota Fats, i due sublimi perdenti che è così difficile separare dagli indimenticabili volti di Paul Newman e Jackie Gleason.
Tevis è sempre bravo, a volte (come in questo caso) bravissimo.
When I started reading it I had twenty dollars to my name, now I have five (the book wasn't free), and all the secrets to the universe."It's always nice to feel the risks fall off your back.
Then, afterward, all you got to do is learn to feel sorry for yourself - and lots of people learn to get their kicks that way.
It's one of the best indoor sports, feeling sorry." Bert's face broke into an active grin.
Especially the born losers.""Fats," he said, grinning, feeling good, all the way, "let's you and me play a game of straight pool."

so far i've read three walter tevis books: this, Mockingbird, and The Man Who Fell to Earth, and i don't think there's been a word out of place in any of them. incredible.
I recently read Tevis’ “The Man Who Fell to Earth” which was written only about five years after “The Hustler” and he doesn’t use the thickly descriptive adjectives as he does in “Hustler.” It’s obviously a choice Tevis made in the writing.The conclusion of “The Hustler” is a little more straightforward than the movie, and leaves you a bit more in limbo, because that’s where Tevis’ leaves Eddie, in limbo with Sarah.
After the second match with Minnesota Fats has Bert sunk his claws far enough into Eddie to keep him hustling for him?“Walter Tevis’ “The Hustler” was an instant classic.
A rich man's son, he didn't have the street cred of Brando and Dean who studied at Lee Strasberg's Actors' Studio around the same time.His performance in The Hustler makes a mockery of Strasberg's judgment.
The Hustler, Walter Tevis' first novel, is exceptional not only in being a brilliant book but the movie based on it is also great.
If Performance was the final death knell of an era of peace and love and the beggining of a decade of violence and nihilism, The Man Who Fell to Earth was, like Bowie, a reflection of its times from a mirror that's one step ahead.
Loved this. Loved it. The perfect antidote to the last five. The story of Fast Eddie's attempt to become the greatest pool player in America, a hill that he must climb over the corpse of Minnesota Fats (the names, right? The Names!) Fast, sharply written, a meditation on, basically, the Will to Power as expressed over a pool table. The character sketches are divine, I spent a lot of time reading it and laughing loudly in bars. Definitely check this out.
che dire... se lo scrittore riesce a tenere incollato il lettore al suo romanzo parlando di biliardo... poi ovviamente c'è molto di più tra i personaggi riuscitissimi e le ambientazioni che non chiedono di meglio che essere messe in scena ( film del 1961 con Paul Newman). Lo metto tra i preferiti.
An absolutely perfect novel. Tevis is a writer who makes me go "Holy shit, did you fucking see what he just did there? That was bad-to-the-ass!" Seriously, a textbook about how to write a perfect novel. I read it in three hours.
Estuve a punto de dejarlo un par de veces y no por malo o por lento, sino porque me parecía que la película estaba tan bien adaptada que no me aportaba nada nuevo.
Pero afortunadamente no lo hice y fué en el último cuarto del libro en el que los argumentos divergen.
Pero si, que el de la novela es menos dramático y más acorde al desarrollo del personaje.
Es la segunda novela que leo de Tevis y si bien no me ha impactado tanto como ''el hombre que cayó del cielo'', si me ha dejado con la necesidad de seguir descubriendo su obra.
For some reason that I'm not aware of at the time of purchase, I've only been reading first novels these days.
First, The Heart is a Lonely Hunter, followed by Less Than Zero, on to The Secret History and finally this one, Tevis's first, inspired by his working at a poolhall.
And all in all, every work is about as different in every way as possible, as just as good as the next.I have to agree with a former reviewer (Chadwick Crawford) that The Hustler is a guideline for how to write a novel: simple, elegant, ambiguous characterization, surprising shifts, and thoroughly digestible in a short span of time.
From a pool players perspective (and I have played competitively for over 15 years) this book has amazing insight into the mind of a player.
This one is a little different from the movie version (less about the love story and more about the game), while the later bares no resemblance to the book other than the title.I think you can enjoy them both even if you don't play pool, even more so if you have ever competed at any sport...
and yes pool is a sport.
If you don't believe that then lets get together and play some for money.
او حقیقت بازی را دریافته بود و آن؛ چیزی نبود جز دانستن هدف بازی. پیروزی، شکست دادن حریف.عشق به بازی، عشق به هنری است که از طریق آن، زندگی می کنی. باید بخواهی پیروز شوی، بدون بهانه و فریب خودت. تنها در این صورت است که حق داری به بازی خود، عشق بورزی.نیاز به پیروزی، در کل زندگی وجود دارد. در هر حرکتی، در هر گفتگویی، در هر مواجهه ای بین انسان ها.
Ok, I hate pool, see? My Dad hustled pool and we ended up with mysterious appliances that he said "fell off of a truck". And a lot of Keebler's cookies. But I digress: Walter Tevis is a genius novellist. Every word so precisely chosen, so put in just the right place, the plot effortless and the dialogue just perfect. Characters? Don't even get me started.
"I've heard that pool can be a dirty game," she said.He put the comb back in his pocket."People say that," he said.
"I've heard people say that myself.""You're being comical," she said, trying to make her voice sound dry.
He could feel his palms sweating for the weight of his cue." Anyone looking to read this account of a pool hustlers life and be uplifted, should probably look elsewhere.
Anyone who's read and enjoyed the likes of "Last Exit to Brooklyn" by Hubert Selby, Jr. will know what i mean when i say i enjoyed this, but found the overall 'feeling' of it to be depressing.
Tevis's first novel only just merits 4 stars, as it suffers from the same problem as his own 'Mockingbird' - a good premise, a great first half, then a gentle but noticeable decline in quality.
Tevis's writing here is mostly very fine, but it's almost as if he couldn't keep his enthusiasm from sagging midway through the process.
The careful development and attention to detail that characterise the first 100 pages gives way to a rushed and underdeveloped summing-up.
The climatic contest between Eddie and Minnesota Fats, which should have been the pinnacle, reads almost like an afterthought when compared with the intense drama of their first battle.
I do not think I saw the sequel, "The Color of Money." As both are considered "classics," I gotta checked them out too.For those who yearn for the America of the 1950s, here's a sample, about the anti-hero, Eddie Felson, near the end of the book, buying some new clothes, "He bought carefully, enjoying it.
He liked the power over all the rows of suits, racks of ties, the fine wool, silk and cotton that having a great deal of money gave him.
He bought a dark gray suit, single-breasted and narrow at the shoulder, a pair of gray slacks and a pair of tan ones.
The story is somewhat interesting, but all of the characters are fairly one-dimensional and I really disliked the protagonist.
The writing style is very spare, somewhat like Steinbeck or Hemingway, but not nearly of that caliber.
At very rare moments, it has the almost poetic feel of good Hemingway, but it's, mostly unremarkable or even bad.
If that story and characters were more compelling, he could have pulled this off.
As it was, I didn't dislike it enough to stop reading it (however, that's largely a function of how short it was) but can't recommend it.
No vi la película original, aunque sí la secuela El Color del Dinero y después de más de diez años, he leído el libro primario.
No puedo decir más que, aun teniendo ciertas reservas al comienzo –billares y buscavidas no me entusiasman demasiado -, he dado con un libro repleto de referencias y sobre todo, aceptadas críticas, no solamente al mundo al cual se dirige.
E incomprensible, para su protagonista, que nos consigue meter en su misma piel e incluso sufrir sus malos momentos, como celebrar sus buenos días.
A classic by an under-recognized writer. Makes me want to investigate more of Tevis. A truly American story about a man trying to invent himself--'to think of himself as an insurance salesman or a shoe clerk would have been only absurd'--driving across America's open spaces, living outside the law, but within his own code of honor. And where does he end up? Not too far away from the insurance salesman and the shoe clerk: "Meet the new boss, same as the old boss." 'The Great Gatsby' placed in The Valley of Ashes. Much bleaker and more real than the movie.
This is one of my favorite movies but I had never read the book. Walter Tevis had a remarkable understanding of how pool hustling worked. I would recommend reading this even if you have seen the movie because there are many details in the book that will enrich your understanding of what motivated Fast Eddie Felson. Except for a few dated references, this is a story that could be told in a modern setting with very little change to the plot.
Can't believe I haven't read this until now. I've always loved the movie, and I've had a swell pocket-sized Dell paperback of the book hanging around for about fifteen years. Finally picked it up two days ago and tore through it. A perfect, beautiful little novel. Loaded with great characters, but Sarah, the alcoholic grad student, might be my favorite--She has a picture of a sad clown up on her wall and that's tough to top.
The Hustler explores the dingy, low class world of the American pool hall with a minimalist style that reminded me of John Fante. Tevis delves into psyche of a sport where money and self worth are intertwined. Beautiful drawn and seedy characters litter the pages in-between poetic descriptions of pool. I was hustled into giving this book 5 stars.
What a fantastic book. I'd read the Color of Money first and had to read this one too. Atmospheric, gritty and brought the tables and poolrooms to life. I know why the likes of the mighty Lawrence Block enjoyed his books. Just a shame there aren't that many.
Read the book and saw the movie! Loved both!
Excellent book. The hardest decision to make is in deciding which story has more pathos; in the film she dies, in the book she lives on as a lush.
All of his books are excellent.
Great Read!
Creme de la creme of pool books. You know you're a pool player when you can't even read 10 pages without putting it down and running to the nearest pool hall.
