https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38255337-one-day-in-december
You can buy the book here!“You tread lightly through life, but you leave deep footprints that are hard for other people to fill.”5 starsOne Day in December is an epic story centered around three people Laurie, Sarah and Jack.
It all start on a December day.Laurie doesn't believe in first sight love.She sees a man through the bus window.She believes now.She searches for him, every now and then.She thinks is sure he is the one for her.She finally finds him.In a wrong place.And their story begins now.This is what I call an addictive book.
Can a fated glance across a misty bus window = TRUE LOVE?  One Day in December  is the kind of book that will touch your heart and make you believe in love. The kind of heartwarming love that is meant to be against all odds. The kind of love that leaves you smiling just reading about it. I opened the book and found myself immersed in Laurie and Jack's story. It was exactly what I needed. An addictive, unputdownable, angsty love story that filled my heart with a solid dose of romance. The story
is the kind of book that will touch your heart and make you believe in love.
The kind of heartwarming love that is meant to be against all odds.
I opened the book and found myself immersed in Laurie and Jack's story.
An addictive, unputdownable, angsty love story that filled my heart with a solid dose of romance.
The story is told from both Jack and Laurie's perspectives, starting from the snowy December day they find themselves on opposite sides of a misty bus window, inexplicably drawn to each other.
Every romantic at heart needs this book in their life!
Laurie sees a man outside of her bus window one day.
Then one day her best friend and roommate, Sarah, introduces her new boyfriend, Jack, to Laurie.
Sarah is anxious for Jack and Laurie to meet.
The man that Laurie has been dreaming about....
This book follows Laurie, Sarah and Jack through ten years of their friendship.
The story is told through Laurie and Jacks perspectives.
It has a little bit of everything: friendship, loss, grief, new beginnings, forgiveness, heartache, and love.Thank you to Crown Publishing and NetGalley who provided me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
We start our story with Laurie, she doesn't believe in love at first sight, she's having a normal run of the mill day, then BOOM she sees a man outside her bus window.
From now on, if anyone asks me if I've ever fallen in love at first sight, I shall say yes, for one glorious minute on 21 December 2008.Even though it was just one fleeting moment between Laurie and Jack (AKA "Bus Boy") she spends the next year looking for him everywhere she goes.
This story follows 10 years between Laurie, Jack and Sarah and their ever changing relationships with one another, along with people they meet along the way.
Josie Silver writes a romantic comedy that is absolutely going to be a big hit, with characters that tug at your heartstrings and packed with laugh out loud humour.
Sarah is head over heels in love with her new boyfriend, certain he is the man she will marry, and she is desperate for Laurie's approval.
To Laurie's horror, Sarah's new man is Jack O'Mara, her bus stop man, the one.
Through the following decade we follow Laurie, her new year resolutions, the kicks and bruises that life hands out that leave her broken, being a pink lady, her never tell a goldfish moments and meeting Oscar in Thailand.
It’s love at first sight, and then your best friend meets him in person and she gets the guy?
Laurie is inside, he is waiting outside, he looks up at the exact moment she does, their eyes meet and hold and she knows.
Laurie meets his eyes and she is gutted.
Jack is the guy, her crush, yet she says nothing.
The pain was palpable, the feelings of jealousy and heartbreak were as real as any I’ve ever felt personally.“One Day in December” by Josie Silver is a novel that broke my heart time and again.
Do you believe in love at first sight?A chance encounter at a bus stop.
Laurie, day-dreaming, gazes out the bus window and suddenly locks eyes with the boy sitting on a bench.
What do they say about the one that got away?Josie Silver writes a wonderfully enchanting love story that will tug hard on your heartstrings, making even the most hardened soul believe in love once again.A most heartwarming story that left tears rolling down my cheeks and the biggest smile on my face.
Oh my goodness Josie Silver you have my heart with how beautifully your words and talent is expressed across these pages of One Day in December.
This book was NOTHING that I expected.
One beautiful wintery day Laurie is on the bus and she happens to look out her window to see heart stopper Jack.
A year goes by and Laurie has done nothing but look high and low for this mysterious bus lover.
ladies and gents Laurie has found her bus boy Jack..
who is her best friends new boyfriend.
I became so invested in these characters and gobbled this book up like a turkey dinner!
It was such a powerful and moving story that had so much heart and warmth flowing through the pages of this book that I absolutely could not get enough of.
It definitely left me yearning for more but in a good way though.JOSIE SILVER delivers an engaging, intriguing and beautifully written tale of love, friendship, hope, longing, loss and regret that flowed so perfectly.
I was wholly impressed with Josie Silver’s writing style and how perfectly she interweaves the passage of time and storyline with the perspectives of Laurie and Jack.
Writing/Prose: Well-written, beautiful, impressive, engaging, captivating, and fluid.Plot: Warming, sweet, comical, thought-provoking, engrossing, perfectly-paced, enjoyable and extremely entertaining.
this is an epic love story spanning an entire decade...
adored her friendship with Sarah, one of my absolute favorite parts of this book...
all three of the main characters in this book Laurie, Sarah, and Jack were well drawn likable characters that you definitely could relate to...Told from alternating points of view...
in fact the entire book is told linearly, there was no jumping around kind of nice for a change....I absolutely recommend this stunning story to everyone with a heart!
How appropriate for a group of friends to read a story with such a tremendous focus on friendship...
🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 🌟 I’m honored and humbled that Goodreads selected me to receive a book club kit and set of copies of One Day in December, graciously provided by the publisher, Broadway Books and Crown Publishing.
I was fortunate to have local friends and online friends join me for this heartwarming read, the perfect story to enjoy this time of year, and quite uplifting in the end.It’s close to the holidays, December 21 to be exact, when Laurie is bewildered and exhausted riding the bus home from work.
One Day in December is much more than the typical romance read, and that’s why it’s receiving universal love from readers across genres.
I have been talking about a few books I have read lately that have not been my normal and One Day in December was definitely one of them.
It’s a story of friendship, loyalty, and missing chances that left us questioning if they really were.Sometimes I think I am more romantic when it comes to friendships.
The dynamic between the characters seemed realistic and was heartwarming and truly special.One Day in December made for one of the best group discussions we have had.
If you get the chance to read it in a group we suggest taking it as its one of the best stories to discuss.
It was a scene from one of the hopelessly romantic movies she loves: one late afternoon just before Christmas, Laurie is packed sardine-like onto a double-decker bus, when through a misty window she spots a handsome man.
Yes, "Bus Boy," whose name is Jack (and who is more handsome than she even imagined), is Sarah's new boyfriend, a man she's fallen head over heels for.Part of Laurie wants to tell Sarah the truth, that Jack is the man she has been hunting for.
4.5 starsThis book is all about fate, timing, and star-crossed love, told with a side of humor and a lot of heart.
But this book melted my non-romance reading heart into a puddle.In short, I loved it.
I loved the characters of Laurie, Sarah, and Jack.
The book ends in the year 2018 and you won’t read any spoilers here.
Do yourself a favor and pick up a copy of this book that will warm your heart on the coldest of days.
*I received a copy of this book from Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.
This novel follows Laurie who believes she has found “the one” when she happens to look through the window of the bus she is on and makes magical eye contact with a handsome stranger.
Along with the help of her best friend Sarah, Laurie spends the next year scouring the city in the hopes of reuniting with this handsome stranger.
Over a year later, Laurie does reunite with this man, named Jack, although it is not in the way she had hoped…..
I loved the ‘New Year’s Resolution’ sections – they were a brilliant addition to the novel.This was a Traveling Sister read which we all adored!
The short and sweet version: this was my favorite book of the year, everyone should read it, and it needs to be made into a movie now if not sooner!This is romance done perfectly, yet it’s more than romance - it’s about love and relationships and life and mistakes and forgiveness.
Spanning over several years, this books takes you through the journey of Lu’s life as she’s coming of age after university.
And a huge thank you to Jennifer who included us in her book club from the publisher - I will cherish this book forever!
4 stars!!    Sometimes you just meet the right person at the wrong time.  One Day in December is a story that follows three main characters, but it's told from Laurie and Jack's pov. It was a loonnnngggg journey to get there, but that ending, it was perfect. Life is about timing. Sometimes we meet people at exactly the right time, and sometimes we meet people at the wrong time.The first time Jack and Laurie 'meet' it's on a bus. Laurie is on a bus and sees Jack. He sees her too. He tries to get
One Day in December is a story that follows three main characters, but it's told from Laurie and Jack's pov.
Sometimes we meet people at exactly the right time, and sometimes we meet people at the wrong time.The first time Jack and Laurie 'meet' it's on a bus.
Laurie is on a bus and sees Jack.
It was so hard, because I genuinely liked all three of these characters, as well as Oliver, who is introduced later in the book.
I could see this book turning into a film- I think it would make an epic holiday rom-com/angsty romance.
This is such a charming romance with some bittersweet moments that added some emotion.When Laurie spots Jack one day, she "feels" something.  I've known people who have experienced similar instant connections, but who's to say if there is anything to it.  Laurie spends the next year "watching out" for this mystery man that rocked her world.I loved all the characters, the humor and the overall journey between two people that seemed to be meant for each other.A touch of  serendipity  and a  fairyt
This is such a charming romance with some bittersweet moments that added some emotion.When Laurie spots Jack one day, she "feels" something.
Laurie spends the next year "watching out" for this mystery man that rocked her world.I loved all the characters, the humor and the overall journey between two people that seemed to be meant for each other.A touch of 
plot made this one the perfect little story of love, friendship, hope, and missed opportunities.If you're looking for a touching romance with a definite "sparkle" factor, this one is it!Thanks to my friend Jennifer and the publisher for my copy to read with my book buddies.
I was expecting something happy and feel-good and instead I was handed heartache.I feel betrayed.
🎄  PERFECT FOR THE HOLIDAY SEASON!  🎄Grab a cup of tea or hot cocoa ☕,a cozy blanket, and THIS book. 💗I've read so many books lately about crazy people and missing people and abused people that this was a very welcome change.If you like movies such as 'Serendipity' and 'Love Actually', then you'll love this story.This one's also set during the Christmas holidays... well, nine Christmases actually. It's a story about a girl on a bus who sees a guy at a bus stop, and their eyes meet and they smile
💗I've read so many books lately about crazy people and missing people and abused people that this was a very welcome change.If you like movies such as 'Serendipity' and 'Love Actually', then you'll love this story.This one's also set during the Christmas holidays...
well, nine Christmases actually.
It's a story about a girl on a bus who sees a guy at a bus stop, and their eyes meet and they smile, and they just know, you know?
the bus pulls away, pulling them apart.This is a story about Laurie and Jack trying to find their way back to each other.
It is understandable though that this might not be the right fit for all readers as we all have stories that we connect with more than others.Laurie is on the bus when she looks out the window and instantly falls in love with a man standing outside.
Their eyes meet and Laurie feels this intense connection.
Uh oh.I love how the book didn't just take place over the course of a year or two, and instead followed the three characters over the course of a decade.
Given the premise, you might assume this is just a typical love triangle story but the author made it feel like so much more than that.
I was not expecting the depth that this book provided It's not just a romance, it's the story of two people whose paths keep crossing over the span of 10 years.
These character struggle with and actually process their feelings and their actions.
The editing had some pacing issues (pauses between lines, or no pauses between scene breaks) but the narration itself was a delight.tw: Cheating/thoughts of cheating.
I felt the book processed this well and did not romanticize it, but if that's a hard line for you then you may want to skip this one.
And at the same time, it felt like a real story.
This was a book club read hosted by Jennifer at Tarheel Reader and sponsored by Goodreads, and I’m so glad to have shared this magical story with friends!ReflectionIt would be so easy for this book to have followed the formula of a perfect couple that by chance found other people first.
That makes Laurie’s position all the more raw to read about—she loves Sarah and she’ll do anything to not have the feelings she does.Laurie and Sarah’s friendship was actually my favorite part of the book.
And Laurie herself loves Sarah with such heart.
5 Mesmerizing & Memorable!! Stars  ...I need to get off this bus. I’m gripped by the overwhelming urge to go outside, to get to him. ... I’ve just fallen hopelessly in love with a stranger at a bus stop. Well folks, it just gets juicier and more captivating with each passing chapter ;)Of course, I went in blind! Of course, it was the best way to go! Of course, I recommend you doing the same! Of course, I am convinced you will love it as much as I did!!I would describe this story as sophistic
I’ve just fallen hopelessly in love with a stranger at a bus stop.
Well folks, it just gets juicier and more captivating with each passing chapter ;)Of course, I went in blind!
Of course, I recommend you doing the same!
Of course, I am convinced you will love it as much as I did!!I would describe this story as sophisticated chick-lit.
I truly enjoyed getting into the heads of the characters.
And these characters, the whole lot of them are a jovial, witty bunch.
Don’t let “December” in the title lead you to think this is just a holiday read.
Not “Splendor in the Grass”...( one of my favorite movies)...or “Love Actually”....or “Sleepless in Seattle”....but....“One Day in December” is.....British-ADORABLY addictive!!!
4.5 StarsWhen Laurie first sees him, she’s on the bus on her way home after work, after her work Christmas party – in fact, she still has a halo of tinsel woven through her hair – and she’s so tired, urging the bus forward mentally when she first notices the young man sitting in the bus shelter, reading a book, seemingly oblivious to his surroundings and the pushing and shoving going on around him.
A light, frolic-filled fairytale-like love story that follows both Sarah and Laurie through these ten years that follow that moment of love-at-first-sight.
I enjoyed the style it was written in - Each year beginning with New Year’s resolutions from Laurie, followed by major updates or the progression of events that took place during that time period.
Two of my all-time favorite books are The Light We Lost and This Love Story Will Self-Destruct.
This one reminded me of both in certain ways, particularly with the main characters seeming to be of my generation, and the longer course of time in which the story takes place.
That said, this story didn’t feel too similar to either of those books.
Now imagine that bus pulling away and he is gone and so are you.
Gone into fantasies, dreams, and a year long search for this man of your dreams only to discover as you meet your best friend’s love of her life that he is your man.
Can you swallow that love at first sight desire or will it overwhelm not only you but the long established, much loved friendship, you have with your very best friend?Laurie and Sarah are besties, they have been there for one another through the years.
Fans of light romantic fiction will not be disappointed with this book as it ticks every box that a reader expects from this genre eg likeable female lead, great female friendship, dream guys, crazy in-laws, jealous exes...
What is a nice little break up from traditional light romantic fiction is that this book also includes chapters from Jack's point of view and this really does help to illustrate the great divide between how men and women can view relationships and can interpret the same run of events so differently!
4 1/2
