https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184032.Doctor_Dolittle_s_Post_Office
In the beginning of the book, Doctor Dolittle helps to capture a slave trader's ship, then organizes the postal service of a small African kingdom, Fantippo, ruled over by King Koko.
Each of the animals in the Dolittle family also tells a personal story.
...تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و چهارم ماه سپتامبر سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: داستانهای دکتر دولیتل اداره پست جلد 5 از 12؛ نویسنده: هیو لافتینگ؛ مترجم: محمد قصاع؛ تهران، محراب قلم، 1385؛ در 326 ص، مصور؛ شابک: 9789643236222؛ شماره گذاری کتاب در گودریدز 3 است؛ موضوع: داستانهای مصور کودکان از نویسندگان انگلیس قرن 20 مدر جلد پنجم از مجموعه‌ ی داستان‌های دکتر دولیتل؛ دکتر دو لیتل به سفری در آفریقا به کشور «فانتیپو» می‌رود.
«شاه کوکو از او می‌خواهد اداره‌ ی پست را برایش برپا و مدیریت کند.
☆3/5☆▪Plot 3/5▪Details 3/5▪Characters 4/5▪Logic 3/5▪Writing style 3/5▪Enjoyment 2.5/5There are some things that aren't suitable for children, in my opinion. But overall it's just an average story.
I really wish I had known there were more of these when i was a child. I loved the first one so much. I feel I lose a little of the magic reading these as an adult since they are children stories, but overall they are still enjoyable and I'll want to eventually read the others too. If you like Doctor Dolittle, I recommend this.
It's too meanderingly episodic, and Lofting's fantasy rules don't quite hold water all the time.
Doctor Dolittle isn't racist, and according to what I read neither was Hugh Lofting.
But he writes in a certain time period when it was considered okay to write about Africans in a derogatory way and that fact certaily rings true in Post Office.
Certainly, if this were written today it would have a far different feel.
That large complaint aside, I still had fun reading it.
I love Gub-Gub the pig; and racist though he may be, Cheapside the Cockney Sparrow can be quite fun.
"Jip's Story" is the best of the animal stories; it could certainly stand alone.
Gifted, This review is from: Doctor Dolittle's Post Office (illustrated edition) (Kindle Edition)as a great gift for someone..
When they get the woman and her husband reunited, Doctor Doolittle and friends take her home.
Well, at one point and another, the good doctor also sets up a weather bureau, helps an impoverished kingdom gain riches by way of a pearl fishery, protects the same impoverished kingdom from the depredations of rampaging amazons (I'm not sure how it is that Amazons, i.e. big, strong, active women—kind of like the Williams sisters—are to be found in Africa, despite the fact that "The Amazon" is in South America), visits an ancient turtle who personally witnessed the Flood in the Noah and the Ark story (never mind that that flood took place in the Middle East, not Africa), and so forth.
This is a spectacular book not just a children's literature book. Hugh Lofting is lovely with the language and makes his own illustrations to match the stories. Even though the portrayal of Africans will appear and may represent his feelings of White Anglo superiority, this should not prevent people from really enjoying his writing prowess. "Then King Koko again begged him {Dr John Doolittle} to take charge of the post office and try to get it running in proper order." Fabulous !!
Read to my young son I tried to capture the memory I had of my Dad reading a Dolittle book with a post office to me... but the things I recall from that book were missing.The book was episodic and a mixed bag of out-of-date cultural prejudices coloured with some quirky twists to Loftings general benevolent tone. The economics never made sense - even to an 8 year old.I think we're done with these stories now. There are too many other good books to read together.
This book starts out with a story about a slave ship and goes on to have many observations that are highly prejudiced and Eurocentric.I don't think Hugh Lofting meant to be racist, but this book was written in a different era and it really shows.I read this with my 1st grader and had many discussions along the way.I would not recommend that today's children read it without a lot of discussion and thought about it.
My mom read this particular book to me before bed when I was very young, so I "re-read" this with some sentimentality. As others have noted, this book was written during a different time, so if you are reading with kids, it may require some discussions. That aside, I enjoyed the stories within the story and the inter-species interactions. Overall Dr Dolittle and his crew give me the warm fuzzies inside. I have more installments to read to see how they compare.
This volume seemed rather haphazard. It didn't seem like Lofting had any idea of where this book would go beyond, "Hey, I'll have Dolittle make a post office in Africa." It wasn't even episodic like many children's books are. And I know this is a children's book, but the discontinuity of who can understand which languages bugged me. I'm not sure if I'll continue with the series or not.
This book made me crazy- Dr. Dolittle's personality goes and goes! I am glad he was able to help so many people and animals. What a way to live your life. I love that the book is nothing like the movie, much better. Great Classic!
Childhood nostalgia for this and all the other original Dr. Dolittle books has clouded some of the unfashionable portrayals of African residents that don't sit well a century later. The tales within the tale, however, are still pretty warm and timeless.
This book seemed to drag more than the earlier books. It was good, but just far too long and drawn out.
Politically correct this book is not but if you can ignore that the story is a fun read.
JudahI love this book.It is a creative book with great and amazing ideas. The best book I've read will be this one.
Too fun, who knew that animals had their own way of writing and who is a better person to set up a post office than Doctor Doolittle.
This one is not as good as others in the series, it somehow misses the spot.
A really imaginative, fun and weird story or set of stories, but the multiple stories all make sense in the larger narrative. Its just really quite good.
