https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/327742.Eastern_Approaches
If you're interested in World War II history, Soviet history, Tito, SAS history, or that rare English bird: the landed aristocratic gentleman, then you seriously need to read this book.
His memoirs begin with his years in the Embassy in Paris, follow him to Moscow during the 30s, head southwest to North Africa where he joined the genesis of Britain's Special Air Service, and then ends up in Yugoslavia where he was the British liaison to Tito.Brilliantly and humorously written, breathtaking in its insight in such unique and terrible historical periods (Stalin's purges in pre-war Moscow, the SAS operations in North Africa, and, most enthralling, the strange days of Tito and his partisans fighting the Germans in Yugoslavia), and warmly human, I can't speak highly enough about what MacLean has done with this book.
The publisher has thoughtfully inserted a fully fold-out map (tri-fold) in each of the three sections, enabling the text of the book to be read as it were with the right eye, whilst the left eye studies the entire theatre of action & endeavours to remember the place names, the transport routes, the military movements; and the brain meanders and ponders over such extraordinary changes seen over the course of the twentieth century.Maclean’s turn on BBC “Desert Island Discs” is well worth listening to, at http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio/player/p00...
The depiction of places still unknown to me were tempting- do I have time to learn Russian?Despite his repeated disparagement of the slow and grinding inevitability of a diplomatic career, MacLean clearly always retained the framework and approach of a Foreign Office type.
Still, MacLean's love of action for the sake of adventure was clearly a defining personality trait- apparently he and his wife were driving relief supplies into the former Yugoslavia in a pause in the Balkan wars of the 90s, despite being in their 70s at the time.Well worth the read:"On the evening of March 12th Bukharin rose to speak for the last time.
MacLeans task: "simply to find out who was killing the most Germans and suggest means by which we could help them to kill more."MacLean earned the trust of Tito, and formed a friendship of sorts, and soon was able to confirm that indeed the Cetniks were concentrating their efforts not on the Nazi's but on the partisans, and in many locations were coordinating and cooperating with the Nazis.
Politics must be a secondary consideration."Soon the British stopped all support to the Cetniks and immediately provided weapons and equipment to the partisans.
Eastern Approaches is not only close to the perfect travel book; it is a lively memoir of the quixotic adventures of a diplomat turned war hero who writes with style and wit.In the mid-thirties Fitzroy Maclean was a junior diplomat at the British embassy in Paris.
Eastern Approaches opens with Maclean on a train, pulling out of Paris and much of the first section of the book covers his repeated attempts to explore Soviet central Asia.
MacLean followed in the footsteps of many famous British gentlemen explorers, soldiers and diplomats (often all at the same time).
"Eastern Approaches" is a fascinating read.
I've never been a big fan of travel literature (travelogue), but MacLean wrote a brilliant account that transcends the genre.
Perhaps it's because his memoir takes place during World War II and involved far more than just travel.
It's a satisfying read that functions as a travelogue, memoir, historical account, adventure story and even a political history.
Not long after singing praises of sledding to his woodland dacha, Maclean gets a courtroom seat for one of Stalin's largest show-trials: Bukharin, friend of Lenin and former top theoriest of the Party; Lenin's successor Rykov; Yagoda, recent head of the KGB's predecessor organization; Krestinski, ex-head of Foreign Affairs, and others.
In the past, when political discussion had still been admissible, Bukharin and Rykov, Krestinski and Rakovski had all differed openly from Stalin.
After some fantastic, and fantastically hair-raising, adventures among the Desert Rats trying behind-the-lines sabotage, someone decides he's just the guy to see whether Tito is real and deserves British support--notwithstanding that Yugoslavia is about the only country Maclean never visited.The second half of the book is about the mission to Tito.
A TRULY FANTASTIC BOOK!
Fitzroy Maclean writes very fluidly and engagingly of his experiences, first as a member of the British Foreign Service in the Soviet Union between 1937 and 1939, and of his leaving (not without difficulty) the Diplomatic Service for the Army, where he rose from the rank of Private to Brigadier, having fought with the SAS in North Africa and later as head of the British Military Mission in Yugoslavia, where he became friends with Marshal Tito and fought alongside the Partisans.
And to think: Maclean did all this by the time he was 34!
It wasn't exactly the type of thing I listened to as a young man, and the first time I heard the show properly was as a passenger on a long car journey in 1981.
With the Yugoslav partisans, he observes how the idea of communism exercised a great power over the individual, leading the partisans "to count as nothing either their own lives or the lives of others." This concept seems to me to have great relevance to the Islamic extremists of today.Despite Maclean's own opposition to communism, his lifelong friendship with Tito, (as well as other political opponents) revealed him as one of those increasingly rare individuals capable of making a fair assessment of another person, irrespective of whether he disagreed with them politically.
The world would be a better place if we had more people like Fitzroy Maclean.
Fitzroy MacLean was a British Foreign Service worker in the Soviet Union in the 1930s, and his book offers a very detailed and well-written account of a bizarre and scary place.
After he left the U.S.S.R., he volunteered for the British Army and was sent to North Africa.
He became a part of the S.A.S. and went on missions all over North Africa, Iraq and Iran.
It is a remarkable adventure story and not at all in the same vein as the idiotic History Channel style World War II books that have swamped America in the last few years.
Fitzroy MacLean's adventures make those of James Bond pale into insignificance.I read this long ago when I was still at school, but remember it with great fondness.
All that only takes us up to where his splendid 1949 memoir ‘Eastern Approaches’ leaves off; but it begins with his departure from a comfortable two year posting in Paris to take up his new job in the British Embassy in Moscow.
But the fact is the fighting in the Western Desert was hard and the men of the SAS and LRDG had to face extremes of climate that were often every bit as dangerous as Rommel’s Afrika Korps, and MacLean saw more than his fair share of it.Following on from his exploits behind enemy lines the Honourable Member for Lancaster finds time to kidnap a troublesome Persian General before being personally selected by Winston Churchill to become the head of the Allied Military Mission to the partisans fighting the Axis forces in Yugoslavia.
A tripartite memoir of intrigue, travel, and military adventure, relating the author's experiences as a diplomat in the 1930's USSR, as a member of the early SAS (part of the UK Special Forces) in WWII North Africa, and finally as an important liaison to the Partisans in Yugoslavia, his two previous experiences providing the background for this capstone mission.The early part of the book is largely concerned with his travels in Soviet Central Asia.
This section was probably much more interesting when the area was largely closed to foreigners; his descriptions are fairly stereotypical, though as someone who knows little about the area, they had some interest.
Fitzroy Maclean's war was World War II, and to the extent that a single human can have an over-sized effect on the outcome, he did.
And that did have an effect on the overall war, by draining German strength that would have been useful elsewhere.
The advertising for the book describes Maclean as the real-life model for James Bond, but his true strengths were in connecting with people in very unusual surroundings and enlisting them in the Allied cause.
Those would have been worth listening to -- as this book is worth reading to get an insight into the increasingly distant mindset of the generation that fought and died in WWII.
I'd never heard of MacLean, but a few minutes skimming marked him as a man of Patrick Leigh Fermor's, or rather T.E. Lawrence's, tribe - an erudite English adventurer whose wanderlust, sang-froid, facility with languages and flair for disguise made him an ideal Special Forces operative when war broke out, and the Allies suddenly needed men to scout the Libyan desert and liaise with Yugoslav partisans:With a jerk my parachute opened and I found myself dangling, as it were at the end of a string, high above a silent mountain valley, greenish-grey and misty in the light of the moon.
He was then given command of the UK's mission to the Partisans, a communist insurgency fighting against the Italian/German occupation of Yugoslavia (remember, by mid-1941 the Germans were invading the Soviet Union and Stalin was one of the Big Three of the Allied Powers).The last 40 percent of the book concerns Maclean's adventures with the Partisans, where he served as the UK's official liaison officer to Tito, the head of the Partisans and, after the end of the war, the leader of communist Yugoslavia for almost 40 years.
This was a book of my Grandmother's that I found in a box recently.
I was very surprised at how engaged I became within a few pages of first chapter, not to mention the excitement my Grandmother expressed at finding my interest in history after her own heart.
Fitzroy MacLean is a wonderful story teller, who's personality shines through every page of this adventurous memoir.
I find myself well informed concerning the Russian viewpoint during the Bulshevic revolution, and on through the second world war.
I would heartily suggest this book to anyone who has interest in history, mixed with a humor stricken story line.
One of my favourite books of all time. The author tells the inside story of the wars in North Africa and the Balkans, among other things. In addition to his own heroic exploits, which he recounts rather modestly, he describes with humanity, compassion and humour the various personalities he encountered on his path, including Tito. Personally, it was this third part of the book, dealing with the Balkans, that was of greatest interest. It's a revelation for anyone who was there during the 1990s war, as was I. Anyone interested in the Balkans should start here.
Great travel/adventure story, starting out with his tenure with the British diplomatic service in pre-WW II Stalinist Russia. He surreptitiously travels to Soviet central Asia, then to the border with China. The second part is about his military exploits in WW II in the British Army in Libya & Egypt, with a brief excursion to Persia (now Iran). Then he concludes with the years spent fighting the Nazis in the Balkans with Tito. A jolly good adventure tale!
Rumored to be the original inspiration for playboy spy James Bond, Fitzroy Maclean, in eight very active years from 1937-1945, is transferred to Britain's foreign office in Moscow, masters the Russian language, becomes the first (non-Russian) European to visit various villages and towns in Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, and Kirghizia, among others (all the while being trailed by the Secret Police), witnesses the infamous purge trials of 1938, enlists in the armed forces following the outbreak of World War II, is elected to Parliament, helps lead sabotage missions behind enemy lines in North Africa, kidnaps an Iranian general sympathetic to Hitler, is parachuted into Yugoslavia to help Tito and the Partisans in their guerilla war against the Nazis, fraternizes with Winston Churchill, and following Nazi defeat in Belgrade, helps smooth the transition of government to avoid a civil war between communists and royalists, all the while, maintaining a committed work ethic, a keen purpose and most importantly, a sense of humor.
But whatever it is, it zings along in entirely cheery and boisterous fashion, and is remarkably entertaining along the way.It consists of accounts of three separate short periods in his life: travels in Central Asia during his time in the Moscow Embassy (1937-38); tales of derring-do behind enemy lines in the north African desert; and tales of even more derring-do in Yugoslavia in 1943-4.Many reviews and blurbs tend to claim a supposed inspiration for James Bond: Fitzroy Maclean as a kind of ur-Bond.
Ova knjiga je ratni put jednog Engleza (u stvari, Škotlanđanina), koji je drugi svjetski rat služio prvo u pustinji Afrike, a od 1943.
g. na Balkanu.
Njegov je zadatak bio da sazna ko su to Partizani, a i ko je to Tito, i da li britanska vlada treba i dalje podržavati Mihailovića.
Zahvaljujući prijateljstvu koje je autor sklopio sa Titom, britanska vlada je odustala od Četnika i sve svoje napore na Balkanu usmjerila prema Titu.
Dobro, to svako zna.
No ono što je interesantno u ovoj knjizi je kako autor opisuje balkanske prilike, naše ljude i naselja u to kobno doba.
The front cover calls Maclean's memoir "The best book you will read this year" and for once a clever line in a blurb is hard to challenge.
Eastern Approaches will linger in the memory for many a year.
Fitzroy Maclean - later Sir Fitzroy - tells the story of eight years in his life, from 1937 to 1945.
When war is declared in 1939 Maclean wants to become a soldier but diplomatic rules prevent it.
So in eight years, Maclean experienced enough for three lifetimes, enough for three books.
A tale of high adventure that begins in Paris in the Thirties and ends in Yugoslavia at the end of the Second World War it is broken into three sections.
The second section concerns his time in the Western Desert with the SAS.
The last and longest section is about MacLean's time in Yugoslavia.
MacLean was chosen to head a fact finding mission to Yugoslavia as there were two resistance movements, the Chetniks and the Partisans.
The British were already committed to the Chetniks, but there were concerns that they were spending more time fighting the Partisans than the Germans.
The blurb on the Penguin "World War II Collection" edition calls him "the original British action hero." True enough, but MacLean eschews pumped-up Rambo prose.
The narrative is calm, sometimes speculative, humorous and intelligent – as well as packed with incident.We join MacLean at 25, a member of the British Embassy in Moscow, just in time for a front seat at the harrowing show trials of Bukharin et al.
When WWII breaks out, he quits the foreign service to enlist (becoming a MP in order to do so), then joins a commando team in North Africa.
A great read for fans of Fermor and World War II buffs.
MacLean's accounts of the pre-WWII Soviet Union, and his travels in Central Asia make for a very interesting read. The second half of the book, particularly about his stay with Yugoslavian partisans fell a bit flat though, even though the subject itself inherently interested me. I'm somewhat disappointed with the book. Based on all the praise it got in the reviews, I expected more.
Quite an experience, this one. Wide-ranging, moving, full of little character sketches and unlikely tales - none more unlikely than the events and coincidences of these seven years of life - all written in an easy, assured style that rarely falters.
Don't judge a book by its cover.
This is evident equally in his descriptions of the victims and minor actors of war (displaced Croatian women, captured German and Bulgarian soldiers, exhausted Soviets) as it is to major historical figures (Tito and Churchill amongst politicians; King George VI and King Peter of Yugoslavia amongst royalty; David Stirling and Lord Alexander amongst soldiers).
MacLean's descriptions of food are magnificent, whether it's the simple meals of peasants, the lavish victory dinner held by Soviet generals, or even his discourses on to the differences between American and British ration packs.
Most interesting to me was his time spent in the Balkan forests and caves with Tito, shuttling between meetings with Allied Generals, and even Winston Churchill himself - trying to bring Allied support to the Communist Partisans in a "side show" of the world at war."That I was able to get through it all was due in the first place to the keenness and adaptability of a staff, who, coming straight from a relatively active and exciting life in the woods and hills, now converted themselves in the space of a few weeks to a chair-borne force of exemplary efficiency."
Occasionally, I have had the pleasure of meeting someone who has had interesting adventures and is a good story-teller.
Fitzroy MacLean is just such a person and his adventures happen to be historical.
This is a personal narrative of his experiences from 1937 to 1944.
MacLean’s description of how he got out of the diplomatic corps and into the army and was elected as Member of Parliament along the way brings out his quiet humor.
He gains military experience doing special operations in North Africa.
This all makes for a fascinating story and MacLean’s personal story-telling style makes it very readable.
