https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1512790.Stuka_Pilot
Pročitao sam do sada hrpu memoara iz drugog svjetskog, ali ovo su valjda najdosadniji od svih.
Čovjek bi očekivao više od nekog tko se svojim letačkim sposobnostima popeo od običnog pilota doi visokog zapovjednog mjesta, ali jok.
Ne znam je li problem u prevodiocu, u zapisivaču ili u samom autoru, ali knjiga je ispirovijedana u prvom licu prezenta (!), gotovo bez dijaloga, i usprokos tome što je krcata uzbudljivim događajima, od Barbarosse do pada reicha, totalno je dosadna za čitanje.a kao dodatni bonus ispresijecana je autorovim nacističkim fanatizomom, takvim da mi se mjestimično bljuvalo.
jer njegov je fuehrer očito bio savršen, uvijek u pravu, sve je znao i njegovo govno ne smrdi.
dalje detalje neću ni pisati.Mislim da sam s dvojkom bio i velikodušan.
An excellent account of the war from one of the best pilots in history. Hans-Ulrich Rudel describes how he goes from a pilot nearly washing out to the deadliest bomber pilot of the entire Eastern Front. His dealings with the Luftwaffe and even the Nazi leadership demonstrate a soldier whose only concern is to fight, not who's in charge. A must-read for those interested in history.
What a rip snorter of a read. This book is pure action and puts you right in the cockpit with the author, kicking the rudder bar, watching the tanks burns and dodging the flak. This memoirs reads like the author is sitting in a pub telling his story why sharing a drink with you.
Excellent book about a warrior and another story shedding light on the massive war of the Eastern Front. Like Eric Hartmann and Michael Wittmann, his story tells just what the Germans were up against facing the Soviet hordes in WWII. What I found it interesting was that these guys did not suffer from PST or anything even though some, like Hartmann, spent years in a Soviet work camp after the war. Why is that?
First book I've read in years. This guy explains more truth about the war than the history channel. The dude was a frickin beast. Escaping death and dodging Russians like no other. He was not only extremely lucky but incredibly skilled. Dodging bullets like Neo. Busting more tanks than a squadron of P-51s. Rudel had BALLS OF STEEL.
Rudel's bounding confidence in his own abilities, along with his belief in, and devotion for his men both in the air and on the ground are evident throughout the book.Rudel's account became required reading later on in the U.S "Fighter Mafia" as they worked to design a new close air support aircraft.
The lessons learned from Rudel were successfully woven into the framework that led to the development of that venerable guardian angel of the ground soldier - the A-10 Thunderbolt.Another interesting observation was the fact that mastering the Stuka, and beating back the Russian war machine was clearly his life's work.
This is a very good memoir of the leading German Stuka pilot and commander. He was the leading German Stuka pilot and commander, with one battleship, one cruiser, two destroyers, scores of crafts, 519 tanks, hundreds of artillery and vehicles, and various bridges and trains destroyed. It is really amazing to read how he could have almost incessantly in constant battle from the beginning of Operation Barbarossa till the end of the war. It was almost four full years and it's all at the eastern front!
Huge disappointing. The book is terribly written (or perhaps translated, who the hell writes a memoir in present tense?) It's full of typos and factual errors. Its "human side" is also disappointing, I have learnt very little about its author except that he was a Nazi idiot who idolized Hitler. It's the worst WWII autobiography I have read so far. Avoid at all costs.
Ann Epic Story About a German. PilotSo candid, so apparently true, this book should be required reading for all ww2 history students. May it. never happen. again.
This memoir is worth reading simply because Hans Ulrich Rudel - its author - was the most successful dive bomber pilot of WW2 and therefore, he definitely had quite a few stories to tell.
You may agree or disagree with Rudel on many political and ideological questions (I, for one, still do) but if you disregard those instances, Rudel’s missions and skills are definitely worth reading about.
Besides various missions and front movements, which are all described in great detail and are an invaluable research source for any history buff, I particularly enjoyed reading about little bits of regular air base life and different anecdotes involving Rudel and his comrades.
Shot down countless times (by flak) and never by another aircraft, he survived incredible odds to end the war the most decorated serviceman in Germany.
Going up against odds of up to 20 to 1, he would attack Soviet tank columns with the sky 'infested' with enemy aircraft and return to base unscathed.
After one mission, his handful of aircraft are attacked by up to 300 Mustangs returning from an escort mission, which he manages to evade.
Similarly, his meetings with Hitler are full of small observations and details that you will not read about in regular history books.
For example, according to Rudel, the only culprits for the German defeat in Stalingrad were Romanian and Italian soldiers not the suicidal strategy imposed by Hitler that he tries to portrait as the good man that all knows and all can do that wasn't responsible for the final defeat because he was badly advised by his generals.
Implicitly Rudel is constantly saying that Adolf Hitler was infallible and if only he was well advised, victory would have been certain.I wouldn't suggest this book unless you have nothing better to read about WWII.
Rudel joined the Luftwaffe in 1936 and underwent flight training as an officer cadet, But, as he had difficulties in perfecting his flying skill, Rudel was transferred to a reconnaissance flight school.
He saw limited action early in the war with a reconnaissance unit in the Polish Campaign and was regarded as a pilot with marginal skill.
Back for additional training he went, as a dive bomber pilot.
He went on to serve in the campaign against Crete in May 1941 with a dive bomber unit, albeit in a non-combat role.
It wasn't until the Russian Campaign that Rudel came into his own as a pilot and established an outstanding combat record.
Autobiography of Hans-Ulrich Rudel where he covers his amazing WW2 military career and some of his life after the war in Argentina.
He glosses over the "fanatic Nazi" aspect of his life, but the book is still a great read.Rudel was the most highly decorated German serviceman of the war.
Rudel's credited with destroying 800 vehicles, 519 tanks, 150 artillery guns, a destroyer, two cruisers, one Soviet battleship.
He also shot down nine aircraft.Too bad he was on the "wrong side" of the war - Rudel's life should be an inspiration everyone who wants to live the life they dream.
Second greatest war book I have ever read (after Storm of Steel by Earnst Junger).
Rudel is a superhuman character and an inspiration to all walks of life.
2530 combat missions, 17 in one day.
I thought he operated with fighter top cover, but no, most often his squadron was unprotected and many times he would go out alone between sorties to find a few more soviet tanks.
He single handedly plugged gaps in the Eastern Front for two years, no exaggeration.
In fact the book is understated throughout; perhaps a dramatisation would be incredible.
Refused Hitler to his face many times to stop flying.
I enjoy reading about WWII and there are few that seem available in English that area such telling and potent views from the other side. Earning the highest decorations issued for air aces, Rudel saw the war from the Eastern front to the fall of Berlin losing limbs and hope along the way. His aspect from altitude and heroic attitude makes for a fascinating read.
"Stuka Pilot" by Hans Ulrich Rudel, 1958.
"Stuka Pilot" is the autobiography of Germany's most decorated serviceman, dive bomber pilot, Hans Ulrich Rudel.
He is, with out question, one of the greatest aviators of the Second World War. While most of the famous, high scoring Luftwauffe pilots remained above the fray of politics and ideology, Rudel was a staunch exponent of Nazism.
Goering offers Rudel a fighter command, apparently thinking that his most decorated aviator should be more appropriately piloting sleek Messerschmidt jet fighters, not hammering tanks in the sinister Stuka.
Absolutely amazing account of the air war, mostly on the Eastern Front, from the Nazi perspective.
Hans Ulrich Rudel remained a convinced Nazi through the end of the war and this is his account of the war.
His own part in the war was not insignificant as his story includes dozens of rescues of other downed airman, many planes shot out from under him, an escape on foot from over 50 miles behind enemy lines, and the destruction of a battleship and as many as 500 tanks.
I had low expectations for this book.
Found a 54 YO copy hanging around at my folks house, took a gander and decided to give it a go.
Paperback, paper was orange from old age.
Enjoyed the hell out of it; almost could not put it down.
Interesting to hear from the other side (USSR beat the Germans - we played an important role, but they did the bulk of the dirty work - no offense to our team).
He was a truly remarkable pilot, and he was unbelievably lucky on high number of occasions.
He fought hard, was fearless and very brave.

The things that happened to Rudel, as well as his feats, defy belief. I finished this one in record time.
Reading this was possibly more painful than the war itself.Ideal for the weather reports enthusiast.
Rudel flew most of his missions in the ugly, but effective, Stuka dive-bomber, but later after the Soviet airforce had developed more sophisticated fighters, his unit switched to a ground-attack version of the Focke-Wulf FW-190.
Thanks to his strict regimen of running 6 miles every morning, he was able to elude capture and eventually returned through the lines to rejoin his outfit days later.The Luftwaffe had to invent new variations of its highest decorations to commerate his acheivements, the last award being presented by Der Fuhrer himself in his bunker the day before Hitler and Eva Braun committed suicide, making Rudel perhaps the last ordinary soldier to see Der Fuhrer.
He did the seemingly impossible, fly an antiquated dive bomber at low level against tanks, AAA, and fighters only emerge victorious against all odds every time.
His tale is the oddest tale of survival under the oddest circumstances; running across countless miles of snow with groups of soviets eager for his bounty, etc.It's one thing to be a fighter pilot shooting down 200-300+ enemy planes, and another thing to be a dive bomber pilot who shot down a hundred while at a technical disadvantage, destroyed many hundreds of tanks and scores of viable targets, while living to tell the tale!
A most readable account of Hans Rudel's war experiences as a Stuka pilot and a senior Luftwaffe officer. Most accounts of war are written by the victors, which makes Rudel's story all the more interesting. Rudel was hugely talented, extraordinarily brave, and valiant in the classic sense. The story is marred only by the knowledge that, while he fought an honourable war, he remained loyal to Hitler and to the extremes of Nazi ideology not only in the immediate aftermath, which might have been understandable, but till the end of his life decades later.
Interesting PerspectiveThe book is very direct in regards to the accomplishments of the writer during his time in the Eastern front in WW2. From his auspicious beginning to the end Rudel never gave up. The brutality of his flights are detailed and the sheer magnitude of combat sorties is amazingly recounted. It sometime reads like a recruiting novel and there is only a paragraph related to the atrocities committed in the concentration camps and it is dismissed with weak responses. The first hand commentary makes it a must read for WW2 history buffs.
My edition is ugly, pages offensively badly laid out and awfully translated.Rudel's story is fascinating and I was surprised by how little of the clearest fanaticism there was, as I knew that he was a real hardcore NSDAP member. At the time of writing, bringing that kind of stuff up may not have been the best idea, so that maybe explains it.The action is intensely described and some of the events are just baffling. Especially the many times he got seriously wounded and refused to rest a bit before returning to his cockpit.
An amazing story of a dive bomber pilot in the German military. Not political or an attempt to re-write history. Just one man's story of war. It gets a bit repetitive at times, but such was the nature of his existence. Take-off, sortie, land. Over and over again. The last several chapters cover the close of the war and the final defense of Germany. The reader can feel the tension building as the German soldiers stare down defeat. Certainly worth a read.
Spectacular German MemoirI have been very impressed by this memoir. Rudel has to be one of the toughest pilots ever. His never-say-die attitude helped him overcome his initial difficulties in getting accepted as a pilot and continuing to fly despite severe pain from his wounds. A very inspirational and tragic book at the same time.
This book was interesting but pretty dry. A large portion of it was just a listing of places he fought at without any new details. The parts that were exciting were great, but they were buried in long chapters of dry recitation. Overall, it is interesting to read memoir from the perspective of a nazi, but it makes you feel uncomfortable to root for him.
