https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/473623.The_Folk_of_the_Faraway_Tree
Book 3 of The Faraway Tree was a step down from the first book, but it was as good as book 2, and the ratings on Goodreads is pretty high.
Very high in fact, considering that it's a half forgotten book.The person who visits Jo, Bessie, and Fanny is their mother's friend's child.
Connie Haynes is one such example.The magic lands that visit the top of the Faraway Tree are on thin ice, because obviously there is a limit to what the imagination can do when one is ageing and having experimented with all permutations of storytelling.
But the book is really good and I'm giving it 5 stars from the bottom of my heart.
There's a return to the land of Dame Slap/Snap too.It's a bit curious that the magic medicine used to cure the children's mother in book 2 isn't mentioned given that Connie's mother is sick for months...It's also a bit odd that given access to knowalls and secret tellers who can answer literally any question they children limit themselves to things like 'the secret for growing bigger apples' and 'where I left my second best yo-yo'.The finale is a threat to the tree itself, which appears to be dying.
For this reason I had stayed away from my once beloved Enid Blyton, for so long.The Faraway Tree series were particular favourites of mine however, and I had been hankering to revisit them for some time.
Of course there is an element of predictability to the events and the safety of the characters is continually ensured, but the whimsical beauty of the setting, the hilarious anecdotes from the characters, the soaring feats of bravery, the fantastically odd beings, and the wonderful (and sometimes not so) lands visited, all made this an utterly charming read and escape from reality for my my pre-teen, my teenage, and my (now) adult self.
I knew I wouldn't be able to follow the words, but then she picked up a gorgeous picture book, and started reading.
By the end of the year, I was no longer thought of as stupid, and school become this marvelous place where you could go and leave with your head full of things you'd never known before.Of course this book was a Faraway tree novel.
I even spoke of the lands at the top of the tree, and how imaginative they are.
But go back, and ask that seven year old, and she will see none of these things.
In time, she learns her lesson (not before getting into her fair share of trouble and losing her voice in the process) and the children have a whole set of adventures visiting some very interesting lands including the land of the stupids where meals are eaten backwards- pudding first, and the land of tea parties with pretty iced cakes.
Connie, if I remember right, gets them out of trouble at Dame Slap's school and they make an interesting trip to the land of treats, where we find Connie isn’t entirely “cured” ordering and getting a “sardine icecream” complete with tails, while Mr Saucepan with his hearing troubles orders Jo a “bear” (instead of pear) tart and cream which comes decorated with teddy bears.
I was lucky enough to read my sisters' copy that wasn't americanized. I hate it that in the newer versions, Dame Slap was scaled down to pracically nothing! They should have left the kids' names alone too. What is wrong with having a girl named Fanny? There ought to be a law against these things.
This is the third book in this series and while you can read them out of order and everything will make sense, I highly recommend you read the titles in the order the author intended.This book has always been my least favourite of the original three books in this series, though that said, it is still very much a five star read.I used to read this series over and over again as a child and I can see why.
The children, along with all our favourite characters from the Faraway Tree soon manage to bring out Connie's good side though.
Meanwhile adults can enjoy the story too for the wonderful adventures, and it will bring out the child in anyone.
My dad read this to me when he tucked me into bed.
It's about this village that exists in a tree and all of the weird creatures that live there.
Some near by children befriend them and join them on their many adventures.
I always thought that was the coolest thing ever to have an entire village up in a tree!!!
If you ever get the chance to read this amazing book I suggest you do!
You must keep in mind though, that this book is all about adventure and getting away from the world.
It's just a children's book that is for fun!!!
Good times. I just finished reading this to my boys. I can't count how many times we laughed out loud. We love the characters, and they have wormed their way into our everyday language - like if someone doesn't hear something right, we call them Saucepan Man. I can see why the Faraway Tree is so loved. I want to try pop cakes and google buns, I want to ride down the slippery slip on a cushy pillow and I want to knit the red squirrel a sweater. Fun book.
It was just awesome and no stupid at all.Miss 4: I like it.Me: Which bit did you like the best?Mr 6: I liked it when they saved the Faraway Tree.Miss 4: Um when they, when they, I don't know.
I don't know Mum.Me: Who was your favourite character?Mr 6: Joe, Moonface and saucepan.
That wasn't in the book, but I would like to go to that land if it comes.
Actually, I would like to go to that land where you buy things for other people so i could buy roses for you.
*Kisses my forehead* I love you Mum.Miss 4: Land of the tree.
At least now I know what Enid Blyton's writing is like. I'm still not clear why she's so popular. Sure she is imaginative and fun, but there are so many other writers who I think execute imagination and excellent prose at the same time.
Reading books like these make me think gow incredible it would've been if someone read them to me when I was a kid. But well I'm still a kid at heart so I like it :)

Hi girl I love your books and sometimes I read your books and I love reading them so much
The final Faraway Tree book18 March 2012 It seems that some of Blyton's books caused a lot of controversy, to the point that some libraries were inclined not to have them on the shelves. One of the issues was her use of vocabulary, or lack of, but these are children's books so I do not understand why people would be so critical of a restricted vocab. In a way children are not expected to understand words like eclectic and in a way having a limited vocabulary, I believe, can be a useful tool in e
One of the issues was her use of vocabulary, or lack of, but these are children's books so I do not understand why people would be so critical of a restricted vocab.
A new character, Connie, arrives (Dick having returned home to his mother who has recovered from her illness) and the children all visit the Faraway Tree for some more adventures.
She initially does not believe in the Faraway Tree, but upon discovering it for herself she becomes quite addicted to it and wants to go and visit it everyday.
But Connie can’t win, because expressing regret on her face makes her look ‘ugly’, as if little girls are obligated to look amenable at all times.The ganging up and threats of harm against Connie continue throughout the story:“Now, if you don’t climb down pretty fast, I shall be treading on your fingers!” [Moon-face] said, and that made Connie squeal and climb down much more quickly than she had meant to.When the children arrive home: Mother wasn’t very pleased to see how dirty, ink-spotted and ragged Connie’s clothes were when she came back with the others.“I shan’t let you go with the others to the Faraway Tree again if you can’t keep yourself cleaner than this,” she said, crossly.Except none of the ink-staining and water-staining was Connie’s fault; remember when Dick got soaked?
Adorable and delightful!
I really felt like I was accompanying the children in their adventures, and often wished that one day I too would find an enchanted wood and a magical tree to visit!The children in this book are, in my belief, model children.
This sort of character adds fun and laughter to the story and I can imagine if a child is being read to, both reader and listener can laugh together!
This book is definately successful in captivating the mind of a young reader, the various magical lands are exciting and imaginative.
The paperback edition that I read was published in 1951.In this, the third story of the 'Faraway Tree' series, Jo, Bessie and Fanny are concerned when a little girl called Connie, visited them for a while.
The reluctant Connie and the other three children enjoy some incredible adventures with the folk of the Faraway Tree.
They climb through the cloud at the top of the Faraway Tree, and find themselves in: the Land of Giants, the Land of Nursery Rhymes, the Land of Tea-Parties, the Land of Secrets, the Land of Enchantments, the Land of Know-Alls, and finally the Land of Treats!Needless to say, really, but the four children endure an abundance of fun, humour and laughter throughout this engaging book.
So according to others' reviews this is the dumb American version. I grew up reading and loving the original amazing English version. My Baba would read it to me and my sister every night before bed, and each time we got to the end we'd start over again. I've carried it around with me since my childhood as a relic of my past. This weekend was my first time revisiting it as an adult, and I swear I remember there being more pictures, but I guess I just had a very active imagination. This book is fantastically inspiring.
This is one of my most loved books! I adore it with so much of my heart, it was a book I read several times during my childhood and will continue to read the same worn out copy I cherish so dearly. It holds so many memories of my childhood, and if I could meet Enid Blyton I will be sure to thank her more than is possible for creating such a perfect book. I have no bad things to say about this amazing story, it holds a very special place in my heart.
The last installment to the Faraway series! I loved it, absolutely, one of the childhood favourites of mine when I was eight. I gobbled this up so quickly! I remember wanting to climb trees in England be able to find a world of my own sigh. :) I loved how we had a non-believer among us in this book, and how she got what was coming to her pompous ass.
Having read 'The Magic Faraway Tree' I was interested to find out what other adventures the children could get into. Me and my daughter enjoyed reading about the different lands that arrive at the top of the tree. It made me think what land it would be next?A very enjoyable book and lovely to read to a child.
This was my absolute favorite book when I was a child. My dad was forced to read it to me at least once a week. It's an enchanting story of four kids who climb a magical tree to find all of the nursery rhyme characters. It is quite a long picture book, with several chapters. But it is worth the read and I will definitely be sharing this story with my future classroom.
Probably my most favourite childhood book ever, from my favourite Enid Blyton series (apart from Noddy). I plan to get my own child to read this series one day. No kid of mine is growing up without Enid Blyton!
the most lovely thing about these books is that it's several shorter story's in one.
I own two copies of this book as the first became so worn out I had to replace it. This is something that every child should read or have read to them.
better than I remember from childhood I want the other two now
For example, they seem to have forgotten how to listen to the trees (which I would think would have been pretty useful with the Trolls problem), and what happened to Silky’s clock and Beth’s wings?There was also some major overlap with previous lands.
There was also a lot of overlap between the “Land of Do-As-You-Please” and the “Land of Treats” and the “Land of Birthdays” - why not just revisit these lands from the previous books?But complaints aside, they’re still fun to read aloud and I thought the reveal of Whatshisname’s actual name was hilarious.
The last book in the triology. The adventures in the worlds at the top of the Faraway Tree continue, and a new child, Connie, joins the band of children. Connie has some issues and her attitude gets her in trouble many times. The joy of these stories is that they are written from a child's perspective. I need to go on a hike, hop over a ditch, and listen for trees whispering.
