https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6063187-twenties-girl
You all obviously know how much I love Sophie Kinsella, so I'll go straight into my thoughts about this book!
Sadie definitely got on my nerves a lot, mostly because I was listening to this as an audio book and the narrator made her voice especially annoying while saying her lines.
The one critique I have, though, is how long this book was.
I felt like there were too many dead ends while trying to find that one necklace and it was starting to get a little repetitive.
I think it could have wrapped up a little quicker, but it still was a fun read!
Having a second heroine made the plot more complex than most of the meet-cute, happily-ever-after I have come to like from Sophie Kinsella – but I found myself loving Aunt Sadie.
For a ghost, she’s just brimming with life!I don't think the publisher’s summary does the book justice.
It's fun to see Lara grow and learn from this perspective, but the best part, as always with Kinsella, is the humor.
But it's always fun to see how masterfully the plot lines are wrapped up.
Lara really develops a believable relationship with her Aunt Sadie and the story line involves mystery, romance, and above all, family values.
Sophie Kinsella is a guilty pleasure of mine. This book made for a fun and much needed escape for me today.
I really enjoyed this book.
Although some scenes were extremely embarrassing: Sadie forced Lara to do things nobody would do unless threatened lethally.Anyway, Lara needs a development: at the beginning of the story, she is a naive, self-deluded, obsessional, sometimes infantile young woman, with a serious “allergy” to her own family, and without real friends.
By the end of the novel, she learns a lot about life, love, friendship, family, people surrounding her, and of course about herself.
Kinsella’s humor is very entertaining, so I really recommend this book!
I would love to see the Dragonfly necklace in real life, I have to say, as it sounds really beautiful.The whole story is narrated by Lara and is greatly enjoyable, particularly when Sadie comes into the picture and Lara wonders if she’s going bonkers.
Not only does Lara have to contend with an at-times-annoying ghost, but her best friend (and business partner) has done a bunk and her boyfriend has just dumped her, so you can see why she thinks she’s going mad; the scene in the funeral parlour where Sadie first appears was beyond hilarious.
I loved this book.At first I thought that this is going to be just another Sophie Kinsella book, full of chicklit drama, but it sort of surprised me.
There are several Sophie Kinsella trademarks I have noticed in this book:1.
The leading man, Ed. I like Sophie Kinsella's leading men.They have this mysterious air around them and they are very sweet.3.
In this book, Lara has an evil sister and uncle who seems to be really mean and would do things to make Lara feel as if she's like a poor Cinderella.
Sophie Kinsella's books are comfort reading for me.
But despite the fact I have a good time reading them, I had some reservations about this one because the story line involves a ghost.
However, even though that aspect is a bit of a departure from her previous books, this one still had the fun and charming elements I have come to expect in her novels.Lara Lington is attending the funeral for her great aunt Sadie who she hardly knew, when a much younger Sadie appears in ghost form.
Definitely recommend if you have enjoyed Sophie Kinsella's other books.
I really, really loved this one! It was over-the-top in an absolutely perfect, hilarious way that made reading it so much fun. I was cheering for Lara the whole time and I loved her interactions with Sadie. ALSO ED HARRISON <3 <3 <3
This book surprised me so much!!
'Remember me' was my first Kinsella book,and though i loved it, i must say i loved Twenties Girl even more!
♥I did not relate to Lara,and sometimes she pissed me off,but she had such a character development..she turned out amazing!
She was the best ghost i've ever 'seen' or 'read' .
Ed on the other hand...I LOVE HIMMM!!!
He's like a modern Mister Darcy and i couldn't help but falling in love with him just as Lara did.
I loved reading this book so much.
Its a laugh out loud,cry your eyes out,page-turner and stay up late reading it,kind of book.
Sophie Kinsella made me feel like I was visiting with a best friend every time I went on another zany, warmhearted adventure with Becky Bloomwood--and Kinsella herself seemed quite a kindred spirit when my sister and I attended her book talk for "Shopaholic and Baby" a few years ago--so I suppose I should not be surprised that Kinsella could make me care so much about the twenty-three year old Flapper ghost of a one-hundred-and-five year old lady who died lonely and came back to "haunt" her present-day great-niece.
I will never understand what kind of Jedi mind tricks Sophie Kinsella employs with her books.
I'd be writing a scathing review about cheap plot devices and sloppy characterization.
I enjoyed this book.
And yet, you want to be her best friend.
She's a bit of a sad sack and allows herself to be completely spun around by a domineering ghost.
Jedi mind tricks.
I'm not even going to recount the storyline here, like I normally do, because if I type out the plot of Twenties Girl I will start asking myself a lot of tough questions about why I actually liked such a ludicrous story.
Very sweet book and I loved the message about appreciating the elderly and older people in our lives. Actual rating 4.25 stars!
For me this is one of the best chick-lit books ever.It is funny, original, and surprising.It has a family secret to uncover and a magical twist. I have read all of Kinsella’s books, but this one is most definitely my favorite.
I suppose, she was better towards the end as she finally managed to gain some common sense and a backbone.
Like Lara though she did become more tolerable at the end, but that was mainly down to everything finally going her way rather than actual character development.
The secondary characters were much better than Sadie and Lara, they were far more entertaining and likeable.
Liked that the romance was only ever really a side story, and there was quite a bit of focus on Lara's work and family life, as well as all her trying to help Sadie with the missing necklace and whatnot.
Çok ama çok şahaneydi. Gerçekten kitap için söyleyecek çok bir şey bulamıyorum, bir önceki Kinsella kitabından da daha iyiydi. Her şey, her karakter ve her olay ayrı şahaneydi. Yeni bitirdim, Lara gibi biraz duygusal da hissediyorum. Ah Sadie, harika bir kadınsın...
Satu ketika ia berbicara tentang menghadapi klien, lalu malamnya berkencan dengan Ed, yang dirangkai dengan kehadiran hantu Sadie yang mengganggunya.Yang menjadi nilai tambah saya adalah Kinsella menceritakan dengan detail setting profesi Lara, bagaimana kesehariannya, kesibukannya, yang membuat tokoh ini istimewa, membuat kesibukan hariannya memang menjadi bagian dari cerita tanpa terasa sebagai tempelan belaka.Cara mengungkap misteri siapa Sadie sebenarnya terasa agak kebetulan, tapi, itulah khas tokoh tak-mau-menyerah Kinsella, ketika semua kekesalan menghimpit, kekuatan terbesarlah yang akan keluar.
adalah sales karpet, dan Lara ini, twenties girl, dari perusahaan headhunter yang didatangi arwah penasaran.Apakah tidak ada persamaan?
This was a FUN read. If you like romatic comedy and light ghost stories and light myster it is for you in spades. British author and takes place in London - the perspective on the American boyfriend is interesting. Starts slow but accelerates to the end. Sorry when you turn the last page.
Lara is just trying to keep her imagination under control and get her life on track, but maybe her dead aunt Sadie is just what she needs to get everything in line.The author does a great job creating Lara’s personality.
Lara did get a little stuck on the ex-boyfriend issue, but it does end up working on in the book.The story follows Lara as she is in search of her great-aunt Sadie’s necklace.
The story gets busier towards the end, but overall a great pace.My major complaint with the book would have been the romance.
I never much thought of what the 1920s was like in England, and now I still would want a book about that since "Twenties Girl" did not hit the mark for me.The big reason why I didn't rate this above 2 stars though is that I hated the main character Lara.
She honestly only gets a bit better a couple of chapters before the book ends which is just way too long for me to be reading about an insufferable character.
I guess you can say the other main character in this one is Lara's Great Aunt Sadie.
Sadie is scornful of Lara's way of life and doesn't bother holding back her opinions in the romance department either.
This proves to be useful to Lara who also discovers that Sadie is capable of spying for her, playing matchmaker and closing business deals.
These two end up working together very well and learn some surprising truths from each other along the way.
Lara's unexpected love match takes place as she works to solve a mystery involving her family.When I crack open a Kinsella book, I feel like I am settling down for a fun evening with a very dear friend.
I have yet to meet a Sophie Kinsella novel that I don't like.
Of course the plot is rather far-fetched, but that's what you should expect and want when picking up a Kinsella book.
When Lara bumbles around, Sadie serves to just throw even more hurdles in her path.
Like in her other novels, Kinsella isn't just all about the laughs here.
And, of course, there's the romantic subplot involving a hero who's more sweet than sexy, lending to the overall pleasant feeling about the novel......To continue reading this review, click here to visit my blog, The Eclectic Book Lover.
97.Beberapa waktu setelah kakek meninggal dunia, mama menemukan 2 lembar surat yang beliau tulis untuk (saat ini almarhumah) nenek.Tidak ada yang luar biasa pada kedua lembaran surat itu.
Seperti itu rupanya surat cinta di tahun 1950an.Surat cinta yang istimewa ini tidak menarik kami kembali ke masa lalu.
Disaksikan oleh lembaran surat yang masih utuh dan tersimpan dengan baik hingga hari ini.Menakjubkan bagaimana manusia mengingat orang yang berharga di dalam hidupnya.
Mengetahui bahwa suatu hari nanti kita akan dipertemukan lagi dengan semua yang kita kasihi dan mengasihi kita.
Begitu, bukan?"Dan ini kerinduan yang tak akan pernah bisa tergantikan.
Buku ini saya selesaikan hanya dalam tempo beberapa jam,ah, betapa menyenangkan...sudah lama sekali saya tak membaca chick-lit,padahal jaman kuliah dulu beberapa teman menjuluki saya sebagai ratu genre buku yang dipelopori Helen Fielding, Sophie Kinsella, Jane Green dkk ini.
Kinsella tidak memberi hints ttg apa yang akan terjadi di akhir cerita, membuat buku ini berakhir dengan kejutan yang menyenangkan.Perubahan diri Lara, dari seorang cewek yang payah, menjadi seseorang yang istimewa juga tidak terjadi hanya dalam tempo semalam.
She is not only visible but also demanding and commanding Lara to do some unbelievable things!Sadie appears as a twenty-year-old charming girl and is desperate; her favorite neckless is gone and she absolutely cannot continue without it.
However, she also didn’t expect to gain a new best friend, learn about her family’s most hidden secrets and find the man of her dreams.Like every Sophie Kinsella’s novel, Twenties girl is a quick, fun and charming read.
A good mood is guaranteed after reading this novel!However, do not expect crazy plot twist and unexpected ending.
Life isn’t going terribly well for Lara Lington: without saying why, her boyfriend, Josh has broken up with her (but she’s sure he still loves her, he just needs to be reminded); her fledgling business is in trouble since Natalie (best friend, business partner and front of the whole enterprise) has followed some bloke to Goa; her parents are worrying about her financial security and her psychological welfare; her sister Tonya (married, kids, perfect life) is far too eager to discuss how well Lara is coping (or not) with her break-up; and her parents are insisting she attend her Great Aunt Sadie’s funeral.
4.5I'm pretty sure this is my favorite Sophie Kinsella book yet!I still got annoyed with some of the characters, but this one had an air of mystery that kept me seriously attached!I do recommend it, but I also want to add that you should be patient while you read.
Haha I really wanted to slap him throughout the entirety of the book!
Twenties Girl is a fun, feisty and fast-paced read about Lara, a twenty-something whose life seems to be slipping out of control - the love of her life has dumped her, her business partner has decided to take an impromptu holiday with no set return date and she basically has no idea what she's doing.
There were so many different little plots that were interesting from Lara's Uncle Bill and his connection with the necklace, Lara's relationship with Josh and then Ed, Natalie - Lara's business partner and then Sadie's lost love and history as well.
Laras life isnt perfect, she just got dumped without a warning, her start up company is going less than well and her best friend left her in a lurch. A guardian angel is exactly what she needs at this point in life, instead she gets Sadie. A ghost that wants to relive her prime years through Lara.Its a fun, feel-good novel that is perfect if you need an easy read. I dont usually like stories with ghosts but this was entertaining. Especially when they finally start working together. And the last
Laras life isn´t perfect, she just got dumped without a warning, her start up company is going less than well and her best friend left her in a lurch.
A guardian angel is exactly what she needs at this point in life, instead she gets Sadie.
A ghost that wants to relive her prime years through Lara.Its a fun, feel-good novel that is perfect if you need an easy read.
I don´t usually like stories with ghosts but this was entertaining.
Especially when they finally start working together.
And the last 50 pages were a bit heartbreaking but I managed.
At about halfway through (this time it was page 295, to be exact) I usually start "feeling it".These are the things I think early on:* Are there women in the world who are really this batty?* Why does she (insert name of MC here) keep making the situation worse?!* Why do none of her MC's ever just say no, and mean it?And then I think:* Why am I not able to bounce back from bad decisions as well as these characters?Lara Lington grudgingly attends the funeral for her 105-year-old great aunt, Sadie Lancaster - an aunt she had never met.
I really like Sophie Kinsella, but something about this novel just kinda bored me. I was just wanting it to be over most of the time. Sadie was kind of annoying as was Laura. I think I might have liked it a little more if it was shorter, it just went on and on and was very predictable. I will continue to read more Sophie Kinsella but I think it's fair to say this one is my least favorite thus far...
