https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/414895.Planet_of_the_Apes
I think Pierre Boulle’s novel Planet of the Apes is a social fantasy, an allegory for revealing our civilization as blindly mimicking our past, as “aping” the good and bad of what has come before.
The novel may also be read as a cautionary illustration of our relationship with our environment and the animals with which we share the Earth.Or it’s a fun science fiction book about chimps, orangutans and gorillas ruling a planet.Written by Pierre Boule and first published in 1963, as La Planète des singes, this bears a closer literary resemblance to Edgar Rice Burroughs or Jules Verne than to modern science fiction.
Boulle himself, the author of The Bridge Over the River Kwai, described the novel as a social fantasy.
ENGLISH (Planet of the Apes) / ITALIANO«Jinn and Phyllis were spending a wonderful holiday in space, as far away as possible from the inhabited stars» A couple of tourists on an interplanetary trip runs into a bottle drifting in the space.
They obtain in this way a manuscript in which is told the story of Ulysse Mérou, a French journalist, and his space journey toward the Betelgeuse star, 300 light years far away from Earth.I fell in love with this novel after half a page.
French writer Pierre Boulle (1912-1994) made use of his experience as a soldier in WWII in depicting the relationship of apes and men in this 1963 book, Planet of the Apes.
The way the loyalists treated him and his fellow Gaulle and resistance supporters inspired Boulle to write this novel.This book was highly praised and was given such reviews as this example from England's Guardian newspaper: "Classic science fiction...full of suspense and satirical intelligence." I agree to this.
It is a sci-fi because of the idea of having apes ruling the universe as they think that men have lesser intelligence than them.
Esse livro é legal demais!Uma história rápida e muito gostosa de ler que, como toda ficção científica boa, faz a gente pensar o tempo inteiro no que tá acontecendo no nosso mundinho aqui, onde ainda não temos naves espaciais populares e viagens intergalácticas incríveis.
O livro se apega muito pouco na parte científica e não explica quase nada.
E eu AMO quando isso acontece, porque sobre muito mais tempo para conhecer os personagens e seus conflitos.
Gostei bastante!!É um livro que eu recomendo muito para quem quer começar a ler ficção científica, para quem está buscando um clássico legal, para quem quer ler autores que fogem desse eixo Europa x Estados Unidos, ou para quem quer um livro bom!
Kitabın bir çok filmi çekilmiş olduğu için konusunu neredeyse bilmeyen yoktur. 2001 yılı yapımı olan Maymunlar Gezegenini izlemiştim ve şaşırtıcı bir sonla karşılaşacağımı biliyordum. Ancak kitap bir darbeyle yetinmemiş ve ikinci darbeyi vurmuş. Kitabın sonu adamın beynini yakıyor, hemde iki kere... Okuduktan sonra keşke filmini izlemeseydim beynim daha güzel yansaydı demedim değil. :) Sonuç olarak ters-psikoloji ile yazılmış, insana bazı şeyleri sorgulatan tam bir baş yapıt okudum. Şiddetle tavsiye ederim.
Bayılıyorum bu klasik seriye. O kadar kıymetli ki. Günümüze, toplumumuza geçmişten çok farklı bakış açıları mevcut. Bu kitap da öyleydi ve her sayfası ayrı keyifliydi.
Planet of the Apes is shocking and eye-opening, a classic sci-fi novel that everyone should read. The themes within it are certainly worth it.
But Apes still seem to rival Man in the fear department: the unknown is scary, so just destroy it and move on.I do have to say that I was kind of annoyed with Merou's assumption that life forms in a far, far away galaxy would automatically be human to be intelligent.
I just hope that one day we'll be able to see the bigger picture.I do want to mention two things that I wish were clarified a little more in the book.
The two main races (Apes and humans) are the same genetically (or so it seems as Merou was able to successfully mate with an "alien" human), and there are several other animals that are similar.
The writing is clunky, and the plot, so improbable - (view spoiler)[A couple is "sailing" in space when they come upon a message in a bottle.
The movie was mostly faithful to the book.
is much the same in the book as in the movie, part orangutan/ part jackass.And I was quite pleased that one of my favorite bits in the film was taken directly from the book - the sweet, somewhat flirty relationship between Zira and her too-ugly-to-kiss human captive.
Originally written in 1963 by the same author who brought us The Bridge Over the River Kwai, this book will most likely be remembered for the many movies that were based on it's premise of a world where the roles of apes and men are reversed.
There is some argument as to whether the book can be considered science fiction or if it's a work of satire in the vein of Gulliver's Travel.
As one who knows that apes and monkeys come from distinct simian families, I felt the change made no sense and found it extremely irritating.
And Lord knows I fear the thought that somewhere in some French library a scholar is poring over scratchy Michigan penmanship wondering what the hell the author of THE BRIDGE OVER THE RIVER KWAI was doing wasting his time with fan letters from nine-year olds.
Still, it reminded me that it'd been more than 30 years since I read this, so I went and dug it out.
Yes, there's Drs. Cornelius and Zira, and the stratified ape society, but there's no "get your stinking paws off of me, you damned dirty ape"---and no statue of liberty surprise ending (Pierre Boulle was French, remember).
Kitabından çok filmiyle ünlü olan meşhur "Maymunlar Gezegeni / Planet of the Apes / La planète des singes" eserini okuduktan sonra bu durumun neden böyle olduğunu anlamak hiç de zor değil.
Fransız yazar Pierre Boulle hayran olunası bir hikaye yaratmış.
Evet, kitabın sonu filmdeki gibi sürprizi içermiyor belki ama yine okuyucuyu çok şaşırtacak bir sürpriz var ve de kitabın sonunu aratmıyor.
Kendi çıkarlara uğruna başta doğa olmak üzere çevresine zarar veren bir yapıya sahip olan insanların da bir nevi hayvan olduğunun sinyalini veren Boulle, bir yandan Darwin’e atıfta bulunurken diğer yandan da George Orwell’in "Hayvan Çiftliği"nin izinden gidiyor.
they turn out to be Chimps (hide spoiler)], Ulysse Mérou stands in as a more pedantic Taylor who gets to knock up Nova before they with their child, and the Ape society is more developed, which makes it less effective in creating that Planet of the Apes vibe.If it weren't for the movie with its killer Rod Serling script and the awesomeness of Charlton Heston (when he was the coolest Sci-Fi actor around), and all the sequels and TV shows and reboots that have followed, the original Planet of the Apes novel wouldn't deserve much in terms of goodreads stars.
That said, Boulle’s original novel is a social satire, as advertises and it’s one of what I’d classify as a fairly light, “bubble-gum” sci-fi read.
It has just enough in there to make you think while reading it, but it’s not going to stay with you long after you’ve finished the final pages.
I’d even go so far as to say that without the series of movies, this is one novel that would have faded in memory long ago, remembered by some who read it for a few of the twists in the final pages but not much more.It’s not to say I hated this novel.
I would not have said this was a translation (not that I think my French is now good enough to read this in its native language) as it flowed so well.
I have seen a number of film versions both old and new so knew roughly what to expect story wise, but I was not expecting the tenderness and emotion.
You get odd hints through out that it is not a new book, it has Mid 20th century aspects, but despite this the SciFi is still good, as you would expect from the "Golden Age".
Allegorical certainly, but still an excellent book
The original from which the done-to-death "Planet of the Apes" series originated. An enjoyable book about mankind on the wrong side of the bars in the zoo, with apes on the other side.
Better than the movie but still a big no for me.
الرواية تم تجسيدها في فيلم بعنوان planet of the apes الرواية تطرح فرضية ماذا لو استُبدل الإنسان على الكوكب بكائنات أخرى عاقلة ..
تسيطر عليه وتُخضعه لمشيئتها ..
فحطت سفينتهم فوقه ليجدوا كوكب أسموه "سورور" كان ينتظرهم على الكوكب مفاجأة مدوية ..
لكن القرود هي الكائنات التي لديها ملكة التفكير ..
لا تملك أي مظهر من مظاهر التحضروبعد معركة صيد شرسة تتمكن القرود من أسر الصحفي ووضعه في قفص مع مجموعة أخرى من البشر ..
لتجري عليهم القرود الكثير من التجارب ..
تمامًا كما يحدث في عالمنا الحقيقييحاول الصحفي باستماتة شرح حقيقته للقردة "زيرا" المسؤولة عن مراقبته وتسجيل ملاحظاتها عنه ..
I liked the opening and the little twist he (tried to) give it but all in all the book wasn't all that great I thought.By the way there are differences in the book and the movie, a surprise, right?I don't know what it is/was that left me cold on this one.
(Actually, in more ways than one.) So, not as bad as some 1 stars I've read, but not so great either.
Maybe you'll like more, to each their own as they say, but not for me.As to predictability, I mentioned the "twist" he tried for, but (if you've read it yet) were you really surprised?
Interlibrary loan courtesy of the Everett Public Library, Everett, WAThis is the book that launched the Planet of the Apes movies, television, etc.
It inspired that incredible scene with Charlton Heston: "YOU DID IT!
YOU FINALLY DID IT!"But this book rather than being a campy, dated 60s piece of sci-fi, is much more elegant than that.
I had read this once before, I think, just after high school - I found a copy in the local library.
(They must not have had it anymore, as I had to get this edition via interlibrary loan.)
The whole time I was reading the book, I was thinking to myself: "Oh, I know how this is going to end." I was on the very last page, having a smug "yeah-I-knew-it-you-cannot-surprise-me" smirk on my face...  Up until I read the last paragraph. Mind. BLOWN! Smooth move, Mr Boulle.
J’ai revu après cette lecture les deux versions cinématographiques, pour vérifier qu’elles étaient bien infidèles au roman original, qui est bien plus fourni est ambiguë que les films.
Et j’ai plutôt été satisfait de cette lecture.Parmi les éléments qui m’ont plu, ce sont toutes les inspirations tirées de la littérature des anciens.
Le narrateur s’appelle Ulysse, et son voyage s’apparente à une Odyssée, avec des péripéties fantastiques, horribles, absurdes et inquiétantes, tout comme celles du héros d’Homère.
Premetto che vidi solo il primo film del 1968 (molto bello).
In effetti così è stato, ma il libro è diverso sotto vari aspetti e in qualche modo è complementare al film.
L'autore utilizza il capovolgimento del ruolo uomo-scimmia in modo intelligente, con obiettivi a volte satirici e parodistici, più spesso manifestamente critici verso la nostra società.
La terza parte del libro è davvero notevole e il finale...
L'obiettivo di Boulle era quello di far riflettere su certi aspetti della nostra società, obiettivo pienamente raggiunto.In conclusione, un classico della fantascienza da leggere.
He aquí su ejército que llega y no lleva otras armas que látigos"La novela tiene una trama muy interesante, el astronauta Ulises Mérou (en las películas es reemplazado descaradamente con uno estadounidense), francés junto con dos estudiosos más y un mono llegan en el año 2500 a un planeta (Soror) cerca a la estrella Betelgeuse, donde al caer se dan cuenta que viven en un mundo donde los monos son los civilizados y los humanos las bestias por decirlo así.El relato es muy dinámico y para darle más dramatismo está contado en primera persona por el mismo Ulises, cosa que le da más fuerza y una especie de terror a lo que él va encontrando.
Sendo o mote central: E se os macacos fossem inteligentes e os humanos, não?A forma como o protagonista evolui e se deixa perceber como uma forma inteligente é um exercício muito prazeroso, nos colocando em situação semelhante, nos forçando imaginar o que faríamos em seu lugar.E, como não poderia deixar de ser em uma boa história de ficção científica, a extrapolação do comum ao inimaginável como plano de fundo para inúmeras críticas sociais - que continuam bem atuais, infelizmente - é, sem dúvida, o ponto alto da obra.
I'm quite familiar with the classic film adaptation of it, but this was my first time to read the original text, and I was delighted and fascinated by the differences between the two, small and large, from the introductory framing of the story (in the novel, as a space-faring couple's discovery of a "message in a bottle" floating through space) to the "big reveal" of its great twist.
I particularly appreciated the emphasis on the horrors of a so-called advanced species' choice to use another for scientific experimentation and the swiftness with which humans (as individuals or as a group) may devolve into brutes.
Son derece çarpıcı, bir solukta biten bir bilim kurgu eseri. Filminden de oldukça etkilenmiştim ancak kitaba karşı olan beğenim açık ara önde oldu. Son sayfaları soluksuz okudum diyebilirim. Hele ki finali, muhteşem. Kitabın önsözünde İnsanlardan Tanrılara Homo Sapiens'e olan atıflar da bence son derece yerinde olmuş. Başlangıçta var olan 6 türden, hayatta kalan ya biz olmasaydık senaryosunu çok etkileyici bir şekilde gözler önüne seriyor kitap. Tavsiye ederim.

I hate hate HATE epistolary novels. I hate sexist books. I hate books that don't follow their own internal logic/ rules. I hate this book.
Mantık kullanabilen insanlar mı?
Aklını kullanabilen insanlar mı?
Yani okumak için kendimi biraz bile olsa zorlamam gerekiyor fakat bu kitap okuduğum en akıcı ve sürükleyici bilimkurgu klasiğiydi.
Maymunlar ve insanların yer değiştirdiği bir gezegenden bahsediyoruz ve kitap öyle çok empati içeriyor ki bazı satırları şaşkınlıkla tekrar tekrar okudum.
Kitapta bana göre en büyük ironi taşıyan bölümse Zira ve Ulysse arasında geçen son konuşmaydı.
Zira'nın maymun olduğu halde Ulysse gibi güzel bir insana karşı "Yapamam.
Benim için çok çirkinsin" demesi iki ırkın tamamen yer değiştirdiğini daha çarpıcı bir şekilde önümüze sermişti.
Kitabı okuduktan sonra uyarlama filmlerine karşı büyük bir merakım oluştu.
