https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114183.All_The_Possibilities
Despite the shortened time-line of the romance and the hero in pursuit this book worked for me. A nice oldie.
But he had to overcome her fear to get her to accept.I liked Shelby a lot, determined to go her own way, not giving in to pressure.
In my eyes, even if the woman loves you and desires you, no means no, and just pushing on, bedroom wise until she gives in at last, is just not the right thing to do.It is just a short story, so Alan did not have all that much time to sway Shelby with more gentle ways, but it pushed the wrong buttons for me.
ชอบมากกวาเลมแรกและเลมสองในชุดนีคะทังอลัน และ เชลบี นารักมาก ชอบรายละเอียดของฉาก นิสัยตัวละคร บทสนทนาคมคาย ของขวัญแตละอยางที อลัน มอบให เชลบี นารักแบบชางคิดจริงๆ และเธอกใหของขวัญทีมีความหมายกลับคืนเขาเชนกัน เรืองสันๆ แตประทับใจแปลกทีหนังสือบางเลม อานแลวไมรูสึกวา รูจัก หรือรักตัวละคร เพราะวาลักษณะนิสัยความเปนตัวตนมันไมเดนชัด แตเรืองนี ชัดมากๆ อาจเปนเพราะเราพอจำ อลัน จากสองเลมแรกได แตเชลบีเปนตัวละครใหม ซึง นอรา กเขียนไดดีมาก และชัดเจน
ชอบมากกว่าเล่มแรกและเล่มสองในชุดนี้ค่ะทั้งอลัน และ เชลบี น่ารักมาก ชอบรายละเอียดของฉาก นิสัยตัวละคร บทสนทนาคมคาย ของขวัญแต่ละอย่างที่ อลัน มอบให้ เชลบี น่ารักแบบช่างคิดจริงๆ และเธอก็ให้ของขวัญที่มีความหมายกลับคืนเขาเช่นกัน เรื่องสั้นๆ แต่ประทับใจแปลกที่หนังสือบางเล่ม อ่านแล้วไม่รู้สึกว่า รู้จัก หรือรักตัวละคร เพราะว่าลักษณะนิสัยความเป็นตัวตนมันไม่เด่นชัด แต่เรื่องนี้ ชัดมากๆ อาจเป็นเพราะเราพอจำ อลัน จากสองเล่มแรกได้ แต่เชลบีเป็นตัวละครใหม่ ซึ่ง นอร่า ก็เขียนได้ดีมาก และชัดเจน
Očaravajuća, lagana priča. Zaista sam uživala u još jednoj priči o MekGregorovima. Volim što se u svakoj narednoj priči pojavljuju i likovi iz prethodnih delova.
Super knjiga za opuštanje! :)
Mysig & söt Nora Roberts. Man får vad man förväntar sig & det är rätt charmigt de med.
O lectură frumoasă și relaxantă. Mi-au plăcut cei doi eroi total diferiți, Alan - calcutat, cu o cariera de succes și Shelby - nonconformistă,vulcanică, total diferită de frumusețea elegantă și convențională la care se aștepta toată lumea. Împreună descoperă dragostea adevarată, formând perechea perfectă.Replicile drăguțe și, pe alocuri, pline de umor, împreună cu personajul haios Daniel MacGregor nu lipsesc nici din acesta carte, ceea ce îi adaugă câteva puncte în plus.
Acum i-a venit randul celui mai mare dintre fratii MacGregor, Alan, senator cu perspective de a candida la presendintie dupa inca un numar de ani, respectat in mediile politice dar si in saloanele la fel de politice ale Washingtonului sa si traiasca propria lui poveste de dragoste.
Trecut deja de 30 de ani atat familia cat si confratii de partid care isi pun sperante in cariera lui politica, considera ca e timpul sa se insoare.
Fiica a senatorului Richard Campbell asasinat pe cand ea avea 11 ani, Shelby detesta tot ce tine de politica si de functiile politice pe care le considera periculoase si plicticoase.
No entanto, para leitores como eu, são livros que de certa forma nos permitem relaxar sem qualquer tipo de pressão associada.
No entanto, contrariamente aos livros da autora que já li este apenas se foca na relação entre os dois, o que de certa forma desilude o leitor.Assim, em "Todas as possibilidades" temos mais um romance capaz de despertar alguns sorrisos pela relação entre as suas personagens, sendo muito fácil empatizar com Alan MacGreggor e sorrir com Shelby Campbell.
4.5 Stars..I want to read the book that the Hero is the Politician for long time.
I love Alan.
He is intelligent and witty.
Denial MacGregor, Alan's Father is the most Fantastic!!
He is so clever and witty.
Shelby, the Heroine, she is strong and intelligent, so perfect for being MacGregor's daughter-in-love.
The Dialogue is Great!!
It's Sharp, especially the Auguring between Denial and Shelby.
I LOVE the Playing Card scene, as well!
this scene is My Bonus.
:p I recommend for everyone who love Contemporary Romance.นิยายเรื่องแรกของนอร่าที่อ่านค่าา บทสนธนาของตัวละครคมมาก ของขวัญที่พระเอกส่งมาให้นางเอกก็น่ารักทั้งนั้น ชอบพ่อพระเอกที่สุดแล้ว อยากได้มาเป็นญาติผู้ใหญ่จัง 55 ได้ความรู้เรื่องของอาชีพทั้งปั้นหม้อและนักการเมือง แต่อยากให้มีฉากเกี่ยวกับการเมืองเยอะๆจัง อยากอ่านนิยายที่เกี่ยวข้องกับอะไรแบบนี้ xD บางทีเราหวังมากไป 555+ ตัวละครฉลาดทุกคนเลยง่ะ โดยเฉพาะตัวละครหลัก ชอบ อิอิ

o carte foarte simplu de citito iubire clasica (imposibila la prima vedere ;) ),un el cu o viata calculata, si o ea schimbatoaregenu de carte care are cel putin cite o gluma reusita pe fiecare pagina, nu o poti citi fara sa zambesti cu gura pana la urechi, sa simti fiorii dragostei, si, in final, sa fii "fericita pana la adanci batraneti" prin prizma eroilor :)
Un clásico de Nora Roberts, puro romance en el que la protagonista me resulta perfecta. Hasta el momento el mejor de esta serie...
3,5Seride ki en sevdiğimaha da bu kitap ve çifttir.Seriyi sevdim aslında ama sanki ansızın Macgregor-overdose olmuş olabilirim.Döncem ben sana beybi.
Best one so far.
But Shelby isn't a woman to be claimed easily, and with her father's death still looming over her, she'd rather die than get close to any politician again - no matter how much Alan is making her resistance seem like child's play...I have to say, I was waiting anxiously to read Alan's story, seeing as he was my favorite of the siblings, and I really enjoyed his character, even if he seemed like a love-sick stalker at times.
Another MacGregor novel, but this time, it’s Shelby and Alan (Daniel MacGregor’s son).
And I found it to be fascinating and different than the other artists she writes about.And Alan is a politician.
That’s definitely different for one of her main characters.It also added an interesting element, since Shelby’s father was also a politician, a senator who was assassinated right in front of her, so she swore she would never date one.I really enjoyed the Campbell and MacGregor family history, that they were basically enemies due to a land dispute.
The one thing I didn’t enjoy was when Alan got a little macho-man aggressive.
Volviendo a repetir lo que ya dije de los libros anteriores de la saga, me hubiera gustado que Nora Roberts hubiera alragado unas 100 páginas más los libros y hubiera profundizado más en los personajes, no llegamos a conocerlos, no se llegan a desarrollar y, a mi parecer, quedan retratados de una forma un poco superficial.
Nunca me cansaré de leer sus descripciones y todo lo que esta autora quiera publicar, porque me parece extraordinaria.
With skills of entertaining a crowded party of politicians, she meets Alan MacGregor.
So, she didn't allow herself to get close to Alan because he was in the same position.
In fear of losing a person that she loved, she wouldn't allow herself to marry him.
A politician who works hard and isn't afraid to make his love for Shelby known.
Taking her to meet his family, he tried to let her see what kind of life they could have.
More from the MacGregor series and I'm loving it.
I'm excited to see them get married and start their families.
I borrowed this book from the Westerville Ohio libraryAs a child she had seen her fathers murder as an adult she feared loosing someone she loved in the same wayMeeting the senator at a dinner party she knew instinctively to try to hide as he could and most likely would impact her world .
Pixie like but agile she lived in company of her pet cat and bird .
The senator one look and he fell head over heals with no way out in love would he be able to convince her to take a chance on a politician like her dad would she say yes?As usual Nora left me entangled in her characters wanting to cheer for their love and had me in suspense to the very end .
Ok, but not as good as the others in seriesTwo big pet peeves: 1) no means no and 2) unresolved stuff.
Out of all the characters in the series (and I read this one last and out of orders), Shelby was the most irritating one who I kept thinking "therapy might help." I get the traumatic incident as causing the fear and indecisiveness, but it was irritating after a while.And regarding the "no." Of all the characters to make a persistent macho manhandling know it all who can't take no as a no because he can read her mind ...
All The Possibilies is book three of The MacGregors series of contemporary romances. It is set in Washington DC.Shelby Campbell is the daughter of a politician. Although she attends social occasions with others from the political scene and she understands the campiagn trail, Shelby is a potter and leads an artistic life.Shelby meets Senator MacGregor at a funtion and they both feel an attraction. But their Scottish warring heritage threatens to stand between them. That is until Shelby charms more than one from the MacGregor clan.A lovely addition to the series.
I liked the way this romance ended up but Alan was way too pushy for my liking.
At one point he basically kidnaps her and drags her kicking and screaming to his car for a date, while she's telling him no she doesn't want to go out with him.
Okay maybe not kicking and screaming but seriously.
Even if he did it didn't give him the right to force himself on her (just to be clear the sex part was consensual, it was just the stuff leading up to that that he was pushy about).
I normally love Nora Roberts' books but I just could not love this one. My issue with it is the lack of respect for "no" as an answer. Yes, it worked out for Alan and Shelby in the end, but Alan would not take no for an answer, literally. He practically forced himself on her as well as basically abducted her. That made me not feel as invested in their relationship because it feels like a potentially abusive one.
(2018) Esto es curioso esta Saga o Serie me la leí completa hace años realmente hace AÑOS!! y llevo días editando los Shelves y descubro que esta serie esta sin fechas!!! e inclompleta!! porque esta estoy 100% segura que la lei completa aun la recuerdo, asi que tuve que buscar fechas y! tengo el aproximado es mas hasta sinopsis tenia (no la recuerdo toda pero tenia).
All the possibilities: The MacGregorsThe wording of the love scenes were magnificent. Loved the idea how truly opposites attract and can make a life together. The reading of this book was so smooth and enticing
I love Shelby. I love that she’s a potter and completely her own woman. A fun read, and one of my rereads. A book that foreshadows what a superb writer Nora Roberts has become; she gets better with every book.
Um romance super envolvente, apimentado e sensual. Não foge nem um pouco da linha da saga MacGregors! Como sempre Nora Roberts prende o leitor com diálogos divertidos e cenas românticas que são de tirar o fôlego.
Another Nora Roberts series I missed, The MacGregors. And again, what can I say? She writes with many twists and turns with great character development. Love her books as she usually ends all her books with a warm, fuzzy feeling. Looking forward to rest of series.
The audible edition of this old favorite is even better than the book.
