https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140403.Ammie_Come_Home
The ghost story is solid, although I'm only rating it a three stars for overall enjoyment.Ammie, Come Home is one of Barbara Michael's most liked and popular ghost mysteries.
Usually she doesn't have any making out type scenes, but she inched towards that line this time.Her niece and boyfriend bring forth interesting complimentary characters - as is a usual trope with Michaels, you have two skeptics arguing, one young and more open minded with views, one older and a bit condescending of the other younger generation.
Also, while I always loved Michaels unique writing voice, here the sedateness of her tone is emphasized by story-line.
I read this book first when I was about 12, was deliciously creeped out, and immediately searched out every other ghost story Barbara Michaels had ever written.
I've re-read it countless times, and it's become a definite comfort book for me (as much as any book can when it also creeps me out every time!).But ohhhh, am I grateful that the gender relations in this book - perfectly normal for the early 1970s, when it was written (so I am definitely not criticizing Barbara Michaels for this) - now feel so dated.
Just the right level of creepy.
I particularly liked how all of my imaginings of the house, the events, the garden, all took on that particular color of daylight that early winter has - a sort of golden color that goes bluish once the sun sets.
The thought to break down the cellar door took the long way around.At the same time to give credit, I thought the bit about the bible working against the ghost rather than the crucifix due to Douglass' protestant belief to be rather clever.There was some blatant social commentary about the 60's that I only really grasped because it was so obvious.
Overall,  I enjoyed the book and am happy it was chosen as a buddy read as I'm not sure I would have discovered it myself otherwise.
But a lot of it is also in the plot: characters who are otherwise rational people stumbling across a genuine occurrence of the supernatural and having to figure out how to lay ghosts to rest is certainly a hoary old standby any way you look at it.But the fun with Michaels is, she just does these sorts of plots so well.
Dated-ness aside, this book gets points for having the POV character be the fortysomething aunt figure, not the twentysomething pretty young thing.
What we have here is a good old-fashioned ghost story, and Ms. Michaels pulls it off beautifully.The novel was originally published in 1968, and in some ways is incredibly dated, but yet still stands the test of time.I loved, loved, loved the fact that the main protagonist (the book actually features four) was a 40-something year old woman, Ruth.
As someone who in Ruth's age range herself, I found the switch completely refreshing.I liked all four of the main characters, though, I struggled a bit with Pat, at first until (view spoiler)[I began to suspect that perhaps Pat was being affected by something in the house.
Ammie, Come Home...
I always enjoy Michaels/Peters stories.
She writes really well and does a great job with setting up the atmosphere whether it's in the deserts of Egypt or an old southern historic home.
This was my second time reading it and I enjoyed it just as much as the first time.
The ending seemed a little anti-climatic though but that may just be because it was a reread and I already knew what to expect.
It's really a good ghost story-it has seances, possessions, hauntings etc.
I recommend to anyone who is the mood for a little paranormal suspense.
There's no zip to the haunting/seance & the maiden aunt heroine was obnoxious, a limp dishrag of judgmental old ladyship -- made all the worse because she claims to resent being thought of as old when she's only 40, but everything out of her mouth is blabbering about 'the young' & their miniskirts, psychedelic shops, & casual hair.
The young heroine, Sara, had no personality & the old professor (love interest for Aunt Ruth *gag*) was ultra annoying in his blustering blah blahs.
Great ghost story which would now be considered "vintage." It was written nearly 50 years ago, but is still SO good and enjoyable.
I actually liked that it mentions all the current trends of the day (late 60's).
It's not a time period that I have read a lot of books set in.
It also was gratifying that the main lead characters were middle-aged.
It's set in Georgetown and also references civil war and revolutionary war time periods.
It was the perfect book for me, especially since I was vacationing and could veg-out with it.
I can't wait to read the next book!
Rating Clarification: 4.5 StarsSure it's dated, but to me this is classic Barbara Michaels at her very best!I read this as a teen over 30 years ago, and have picked up again and again over the years. It still has the power to creep me out even after all these years and after all these re-readings!
I’ve sought grown-up ghost novels for so long, I asked my blog readers to recommend some.
It is the closest I’ve gotten in years.
When Sara’s professor, Pat escorts Ruth to his Mother’s high society soirée; she meets a séance medium in want of a more suitable house.
Manifestations that are terrifying to anyone in their parlour after sunset, include Sara’s short possession of a spirit.
Until the parlour’s cloud froze them with fear; Pat mistook Sara’s possession for a mental illness.
Bruce’s proficiency in debates convinced Pat to consider the radical possibility: ghosts!
After the recent death of Barbara Mertz (aka Barbara Michaels and Elizabeth Peters, may her name(s) be used for a blessing), I decided to read (or re-read) all of her books!
I thought for sure I had read most of Barbara Michaels' books, but apparently not this one!
Still, her female characters are not doormats, and the men mostly forgivable if you look at is as historical fiction.
I look forward to seeing if any of the same characters recur in the next two books.
Buddy read with Jeannette, Hannah, Judith, Willow.A very well done creepy mystery. The male/female conversations were dated, but it was written in 1968 so that is to be expected. A fun book with all its late 60's clothing etc.
The ending of the book was actually what I enjoyed the most when our four main characters discover the mystery behind Sara's possession and the haunting of Ruth's home.
And there were some continuity problems I had noticed as well, but we'll bench those, because loose ends are typically on par with a lot of books I've read lately and I'm not about to be irritated by them.Anyway, there were happenings and hauntings and stuff.
But the things that Bruce and Pat would say to Ruth and Sara offhand just really turned me off.The characters felt unexciting anyway.
I liked the historical aspect of our main characters' research--or rather, I guess Bruce's research.
The literary equivalent of a potato chip. I reread Barbara Michaels (Elizabeth Peters) whenever I just want to stop thinking. Her style is zippy, the stories are usually interesting enough --- Ammie, Come Home is one of her best --- and I can get lost in it for the hour or so it takes to read it. And sure, potato chips aren't the best for you, but . . .
Somehow her book Ammie, Come Home found its way onto my tbr list, then shelf and I finally got around to reading it.Published in 1968, Ammie, Come Home is an old-fashioned ghost story (emphasis on the old-fashioned.) It concerns Ruth, her 19-year-old niece, Sara (who is living with her while she attends college), Pat MacDougal (Sara’s professor and Ruth’s love interest) and Bruce, Sara’s boyfriend.
No, I am definitely jaded because I didn’t find the book even remotely scary and no one likes a good horror story more than me.It’s got me thinking though.
An added attraction for me to jump it to the head of the line in my TBR list was the fact that there are 2 other books featuring Pat and Ruth, the gracious couple in Ammie.
The romance of Pat and Ruth had just the right amount of attention, as did the secondary romance of Bruce and Sara.
Most of the book concerns powwows around the dinner table, and research into the history of house in the days before computers and social media.
I loved being taken back in time to my high school years.
This book is an excellent example of mpm's writing.
While the actual story is not out of the ordinary as far as ghost stories go, her skilled writing and insights remind the jaded reader why such a situation was considered frightening in the first place.
In an age where the horror genre consistently bombards its viewers with gore and vivid imagery, the subtlety and attention to detail sets this book apart.
Her description of possession by a spirit astutely describes precisely why, psychologically, humans find the supernatural so frightening.
A great thriller for those who don't go out much for blood and gore.
This was the first adult ghost story I read and I couldn't put it down. When I finally finished the novel I had to sleep with the light on for the first time in years! It was creepy, and funny, and remains my favorite Michaels novel.
Nobody does it like Barbara Michaels did...
Read this book years ago. Fabulously creepy with sufficient details to hold the reader's attention. Memorable and enjoyable.
Ammie, Come Home was one of my favorites as a youth, and while I still found it to be an entertaining ghost story, it is definitely showing its age.The story begins with Ruth, a middle-aged widow who has inherited a historical house in Georgetown and her niece, Sara, unwittingly open a can of worms by hosting a seance.
At times, I could see where Michaels was probably going with this, as most of the debating was done between Pat and Bruce: the voices of age versus youth, logic versus passion, reason versus faith.
I own most of her books written as Michaels, and all are well worn and well-loved paperbacks.
I think it was all the casual smoking that really struck me; Ruth is portrayed as a distinguished, demure woman in her 50s or so, and she was always lighting up.
I don’t think I have really read anything lately where the main character smokes.
This book is the first in the Georgetown Series – I have actually read the second and third and really liked them.
And you will have to read to find out about Ammie.
This year I have been participating in a "read a new book, reread an old book" challenge, and boy, does Ammie, Come Home exemplify the latter.
Barbara Michaels is my favorite author (she's also Elizabeth Peters, so I get two for the price of one there), and as I recall, when I first read Ammie, Come Home, it wasn't my favorite book of hers, though it is one of the ones I really liked.
Ammie, Come Home features two sets of couples, one older and one younger, and the viewpoint character, Ruth, is a forty-five year old widow, which is a refreshing surprise.
Ever since then, her niece has been acting strange and the things happening in the house can no longer be explained as tricks of the mind.Originally written in 1968, "Ammie, Come Home" is the first book by Barbara Michaels that I felt hadn't aged well.
The men, who haven't known the female characters all that long, immediately swoop in and start making heavy handed decisions about how Ruth is going to handle her niece and the haunting.
They were the main decision makers about everything and I hated that Ruth tended to just raise her hands in a "you know best" sort of way.As for the male characters, Pat has all the typical trademarks of a Michaels' leading man.
Although Barbara Michaels generally does gothic novels, I am rarely actually scared of anything she writes.
You get to learn a decent amount about the characters and the background before things start to really get going, though there is a sense of eeriness very early on.I liked the whole cast, though Pat occasionally rubbed me the wrong way by being a little too bull-headed to bear.
I loved the film when i first watched it when it came out, I was around 10 years old.
The film left a deep mark in my love of horror..The novel, a nice quick read, it's a decent ghost story/haunted house story, with a nice background story of both Georgetown (DC) and the house itself.
Michaels' writing really places you right in the middle of the house, during the exciting seances (I just LOVE a good literary seance!) and searching throughout the house for old letters and diaries looking for clues.
Well sure, it's over 40 years old.
As soon as I picked it up and began reading the first scene, where Ruth is in her old inherited house in Georgetown, waiting for her groovy young niece Sara, and worrying because she's late, I was caught up in the narrative, the setting, the characters.The book was published in 1968, and is set at that time, so young Sara has long, straight hair and wears a lot of mini-skirts and high boots, and her beau Bruce has a beard and wears foppish clothes.
Just a hypersensitivity to creaking floors or the wind outside--and perhaps a desire to curl up in a nice protective wing chair under some really bright lights.)Michaels' works have been published since the late 1960s (the copies you'll find in bookstores these days are re-issues--and I must say the new cover art works very well), so the earliest books can feel a bit dated in terms of dialogue and the female characters' perspectives/experiences.
Nicely paced ghost story set in Georgetown, following a classic sort of haunted house plot where the author must find a balance between keeping danger going and not having her characters be complete morons.This book was written in the late sixties.
I stumbled upon it in a library search and checked it out because I remember how many Barbara Michaels books were on my mom's shelf growing up.
I mean, there are women you seduce and women you rape." What?!?This is the book my mom said she was reading when the cat made a noise and she jumped a mile.
I might have found the male characters a bit more disturbing than the ghosts though.
