https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7775623-the-secret-river
Apparently Rawlings wanted to see if she could write a whole book about Calpurnia, but her 'untimely death' made it possible for this to get illustrated and released.When I was a child, one of the things that I loved most about this story was the idea of 'follow your nose.' I was just beginning to understand metaphor, and so enjoyed the idea both literally and metaphorically.
If turning to look at interesting sights, towards interesting sounds, could really lead to adventures, to secret places, I was all for it!I also admired Calpurnia's courage.
The Dillon's is colorful, picture-book size, and does show the family clearly as African-American.
(And I don't love fishing; but I certainly appreciate and understand its necessity in cases such as this.)Calpurnia is a wonderful heroine; bright, brave, resourceful, kindhearted, and intuitive.
The layout is great, too--the shock at turning the page and seeing the frightening animals in the night (for example) or when Calpurnia, looking oh-so-small at the bottom of one page, looks up at the enormous owl who takes up the entire opposite page.The story (already abridged from the Newbery Honor-winning original) is rather long for the younger picture book crowd, but this story is one I'm adding to my personal collection to share with my son when he's older.
Calpurnia loves to think up rhymes and spend time with her dog Buggy-horse.
When her father tells that times are hard for everyone, she decides to find some fish in order to help out.
After getting directions from a neighbor, she finds a secret river where fish abound.
As she encounters an owl, a bear, and a panther, she offers them fish in order to pass safely.
Her father is able to sell the fish, enabling its buyers to find the strength to work again, and hard times improve.
Everything about this book is beautiful--even the endpapers with fish floating in tandem across them.
Any book that gives me goosebumps gets five stars!
Did you see the face in the forest?
Did you see the hands in the bear grass?
Did you see the fish in the leaves?
Did you see Mother Albirtha's necklace change expressions?
Did you see the chairs at Calpurnia's house repaired in two different ways?
*happy sigh* I love the tonal shifts in color throughout the book, from thin gray dawn to golden green afternoon to golden brown sunset to deep blue night.
I love the folkloric narrative arc of the story, too.
The first solid Caldecott contender for 2012, Leo & Diane Dillon have done some of their best work in this retelling of the Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings Newbery Honor book from 1958.
Many of the almost full page illustrations contain many hidden images that further enrich the already strong and solid story.
Rawlings story of a young girl, Calpurnia, and her dog setting out to find the answer for her small town's financial issues is one that is relatable to todays financial and economic situation.
Leo & Diane Dillon's fantastic award-worthy illustrations open this classic tale to a whole new generation of readers.
This is a classic by the renowned author, Marjorie Kinnans Rawlings. I'd never seen the book before so was intrigued. It was a profoundly beautiful tale of a young girl who decides to help her father whose business has been stricken by the Great Depression. With a little magic and a lot of imagination, she makes a miracle happen. I found myself near tears at points in this book, perhaps because the child is so selfless, her intentions so pure. The illustrations are equally magical, reflecting the exotic mystery of the Florida forests and wetlands.
Absolutely wonderful! My daughter still yearns for picture books over chapter books with spot illustrations here and there, but she's old (and ridiculously bright) enough to want stories with more depth and substance than is to be found in shorter children's books intended for limited attention spans. This book is a fantastic bridge from child to kid literature. The entire family was enchanted by this sweet, mystical tale of a girl who wants to do her part to turn hard times into soft.
A girl, whose father needs fish to sell in his market, sets out to find the magical secret river. Short and sweet. Lovely illustrations.
That secret river is just filled with perfect game fish, Mother Albirtha says, enough to pull their part of Florida out of the economic dumps and set them all right smack in the middle of softer times.
When Calpurnia was at her lowest, when she wasn't sure how her family was even going to make it by, she needed that secret river; not wanted, but needed it.
The truth is, though, like Mother Albirtha tells Calpurnia, "The secret river is in your mind...
Luminously illustrated by the Dillons, this new version of a classic children’s book truly shines.
The only children’s book written by the author of The Yearling, this story is about Calpurnia, a young girl who is a poet.
Eventually, Calpurnia found the river and caught some large fish to help her father.
The writing is filled with small touches, turns of phrase that add such beauty to the text.
They are illustrations that are celebrate the beauty of light on skin, the depth of dark in a forest, the shine of wisdom on a face, and the blackness of animal fur.
Imagined in striking scenes, Calpurnia and Buggy-horse's encounters with an owl, a bear, and a panther effectively capture the Florida back country that Rawlings famously drew upon in her writings...."Booklist: "...glowing, full-page acrylic paintings and small freestanding images that capture the story’s magic realism from a child’s viewpoint...Filled with pattern and texture, the images occasionally have a static quality...
They are at their best in scenes of the brave child on her perilous journey, finding her way back in the dark, past an owl, a big black bear, and a crouching panther, until she returns to her parents’ loving embrace..."
Beautifully written, the story follows a young black girl named Capurnia, who considers herself a poet, as she tries to save her family and community from "hard times" by seeking out a secret river in the woods full of fish in a time when there seems to be no fish for her father to sell.
Rawlings, a white author, had complex relationships with black authors and neighbors in Florida during the 1930s and 1940s.
This children's book is beautifully written and simply magical in its adventures.
If one fails, like a domino they are all impacted.Hard times occurred in the forest.
Calpurnia wondered how she could possibly help her father and their community.Remembering a small pond where she and her dog fished unsuccessfully, she thought that perhaps fish would bite the line of something pretty, instead of worms.
Eventually finding the magic river, Calpurnia was astounded at the amount and size of the fish Using her paper roses as bait, she caught many fishGiving fish to the animals along the way, there still was enough overflowing to give to Mother Albirtha and her father to sell.Highly recommended.The illustrations are breath taking!!!
This is a wonderful tale, accompanied by gorgeous illustrations for this 2011 reprint of the classic Newbery Honor story.
The illustrations are so expressive and magical, we found ourselves just pausing our reading of the tale and staring at them, pointing out the different things we saw.
This is a book that deserves a second look once you have read the story.
This is a long story, so recommend breaking this story up into parts if read to younger children.
This book was featured as one of the selections for the June 2015 Rivers and Lakes-themed reads for the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
After reading the wonderful book by Kris Radish called A Grand Day to Get Lost which revolved around the life of Marjorie Rawlings (winner of the Pulitzer for The Yearling), I became infatuated with Rawling's life.
I found The Secret River which was the only book Rawlings wrote specifically for children.
The copy I read was beautifully written with gorgeous illustrations by the talented Dillon artists.
The story is written like a folktale.
A young girl wants to find the secret river so she can catch as many fish as she can.
A beautiful book for my bookshelf and one that I will read many times.
Calpurnia is a young poet full of beautiful words and images.
Calpurnia wants to make things "soft" again so she sets out to find fish for her father.
The local fortune teller tells Calpurnia to follow her nose and that's just what she does to find a secret river full of fish.
Along the way home Calpurnia runs into some trouble, but she is a resourceful girl and figures out a solution every time.
She gives the fish to her father, he sells it, and times are good again.The beautiful illustrations of this book aid the reader in seeing Calpurnia's thoughts and ideas.
A Leo & Diane Dillon cover will make me pick up a book and, if it’s a picturebook, take it home before I even open it.
The Secret River is beautiful story with the feeling of a folk tale.
When hard times come to the forest and Calpurnia’s father can’t catch fish to sell, Calpurnia sets out with her dog to catch fish and help her father.
Following her nose, she finds the secret river, bursting with fish.With hard work, determination, and belief in the extraordinary, Calpurnia brings softer times to the forest and reaches the understanding that sometimes the answers are in your own mind.The Dillons’ illustrations bring depth to the story, expanding the text and showing the magic and imagination present in Calpurnia’s world.
Calpurnia is a smart and kind little girl.
When her family is in trouble because her father is unable to catch fish, she wants to help.
Mother Albirtha, the wisest woman in the village, tells her to follow her nose and she will find the secret River where plenty of fish will bite.
She finds the secret river and catches many fish.
Then this kind hearted and brave girl, shares what she has caught with many hungry creatures in the forest as well as with Mother Albirtha and her father, a truly beautiful story of courage, compassion, creativity and confidence.
Calpurnia is a delightful, innocent girl who finds her family affected by hard times.
Her father is a fisherman who can't find fish and as a result the locals of the forest don't have food to eat or energy to work.
Calpurnia turns to the local wise woman for help.
Mother Albirtha tells Calpurnia of the secret river that is teeming with fish, especially catfish.
She tells Calpurnia to follow her nose to find this mysterious river.
Calpurnia does and good things happen as a result.
A magical story for middle elementary school-aged children.
This book would also make a nice read-aloud for young children.
Calpurnia speaks to a friend, a fortune-teller and she tells Calpurnia about a secret river that is filled with fish.
Calpurnia goes to the secret river and returns home with so many fish she can hardly carry them.
Bringing the fish home ends the hard times for the family and their neighbors.“Mother Albirtha rocked back and forth.She said, ‘Child, I have not breathed this to a living soul, but I will tell you.
There are big fish in the secret river.
Oh my, the fish!
Catfish, perch, bream, mudfish, and garfish.
Especially catfish.”
The secret river, text by Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, ill Leo Dillon & Diane Dillon is a wonderful story with lush illustrations. One morning at breakfast, Calpurnia's father anounces that hard times have come. "I make an honest living selling fish to other poor people. Now there are no fish. Nobody can catch any fish. I shall have to close my fish market, and things will go hard with all of us."When Calpurnia hears from Mother Abirtha about a secret river with lots of fish, she and her dog Buggy Horse go looking for it.
Reading this book to students is wonderful because they might be able to relate to Calpurnia who writes poems about the life around her. It's also good to read to students because they might be able to relate because the little girl wants to help her parens out since they have fallen to hard times. As a child, I would have related to this book because I wanted to help my parents out when they didn't have money and this little girl finds a way to help them and maybe students will relate too.
This lovely story, brought back to life by the Dillons is enchanting. Leo and Diane Dillon are the perfect illustrators for the charismatic tale told by Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings and originally published in 1956. Such a delight for the eyes as well as the ears, the character Calpurnia and her dog, Buggy Horse are timeless in their longing, their innocence and their growing understanding of life and value.
Charming chapter book filled with the wonder and magic of the Florida outdoors. Tale of Calpurnia and her faithful dog Buggy-horse searching the deep forest for the secret river. Whimsical 1950s illustrations by Leonard Weisgard enhance this story; the only children's story written by Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings. My favorite line spoken by Calpurnia to Buggy-horse, " Wake up, my dear dog. I have a feeling something special is going to happen today." What a lovely thought to have every day!
A beautiful book! Calpurnia and her sweet dog, Buggy-horse, help her father by catching fish in a secret river. I enjoyed the story, which has a wonderful voice and rich descriptions. I also enjoyed the artwork and use of color; the illustrations are beautiful and add quite a bit to the story. This is more like an illustrated chapter book; the text is long and fairly advanced. I recommend this book for students in grades 4 - 5.
Leo and Diane Dillon have done beautiful work with these illustrations. [Originally illustrated by Weisgard when published in 1956.]The story itself is for older readers due to its length. Calpurnia is on a mission to find fish to alleviate the hard times that have come to her poor family's rural town and, in particular, her father's fish market. A modern folktale with magical elements.
Maybe a 4.5 for me: lyrical story with beautifully done illustrations. As with all the Dillons' works, there is more than first meets the eye with these images (fish motifs in the trees, faces on the trees, etc.). I'd like to read the older version of this tale, but this newer one is gorgeous. And Rawlings can write....
had no idea it was a newbery honor book. before our roadtrip me and rosanna wanted to read the yearling because we were going to marjorie kinnan rawling's house, but that book is way too long, so we read this one instead. not great, but visiting her house in northern florida was really cool and we got the tour from a genuine florida cracker!
Oh, I want this one. I'd read it to the preschool class during the whole of rest time, and if I did it right, they would not stir, even if it took a second day to finish. There are large illustrations that would interest children sitting around a teacher and smaller illustrations, patterns and details to reward individual readers, too. It's beautiful.
A delightful picture book containing a story from the early 20th century legendary Floridian author. It's a bit of a parable with magical realism. There is magic but, for example, the many animals do not act out of the ordinary. The illustrations from Leo Dillon and Diane Dillon are gorgeous!
