https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29276588-everything-you-want-me-to-be
This will be a tricky review; I refuse to become spoilery and so I will refrain from saying certain things I would like, but just know this book is well worth your time, money, and energy in reading it.
Maybe part of her story was relatable to me, as my husband and I have the same age gap as Hattie and Peter, which made things more realistic for my reading experience.
Highly recommended to the fans of a well done psychological thriller; I’m not sure if I should consider this one of my top reads of 2016 or 2017-maybe both!*Many thanks to Atria Books (go mystery bus go!) for providing my copy for review.
from the publisher:Full of twists and turns, Everything You Want Me to Be reconstructs a year in the life of a dangerously mesmerizing young woman, during which a small town’s darkest secrets come to the forefront...and she inches closer and closer to her death.High school senior Hattie Hoffman has spent her whole life playing many parts: the good student, the good daughter, the good citizen.
Told from three points of view—Del, Hattie, and the new English teacher whose marriage is crumbling—Everything You Want Me to Be weaves the story of Hattie’s last school year and the events that drew her ever closer to her death.Evocative and razor-sharp, Everything You Want Me to Be challenges you to test the lines between innocence and culpability, identity and deception.
Local Sheriff Del Goodman is a friend of the Hoffman's so he is even more invested in finding out what happened.
He finds it hard to look his good friend Bud, Hattie's father, in the face as he tries to find who is responsible for this horrific act.Hattie felt like she spent her life playing parts, molding herself into being what everyone wanted her to be.
Not because I don't have a lot of thoughts about the book, but I just feel like saying much more than I have, would lead to spoiler territory.
I liked having no idea what was going to happen.
Mom warned me that I had a lot to learn about the world. I wished she would've mentioned how much the learning was going to hurt.This book was perfection..for me anyways.It's one of those that you know you should look away from but it wraps it's twisted little story around your mind and you just can't look away.  Hattie Hoffman is in high school and has always been one of the top of the food chain girls. She gets the leads in the drama plays, she has the best friend that adores her, she has pare
I wished she would've mentioned how much the learning was going to hurt.This book was perfection..for me anyways.It's one of those that you know you should look away from but it wraps it's twisted little story around your mind and you just can't look away.
Hattie Hoffman is in high school and has always been one of the top of the food chain girls.
She gets the leads in the drama plays, she has the best friend that adores her, she has parents that would move the earth for her.But girlfriend..it's all a farce.
Hattie dreams of leaving small town life because she is so much better than that.
The entire novel was about playing a part, pretending for onlookers and living a secret life that no one knows about, yet it didn’t delve deep enough to evoke any real feelings about it for me.
Honestly, Miss Hattie Hoffman didn’t seem to be going through much more than the average city teenager, and the small-town aspect wasn’t brought to life nearly enough to truly juxtapose this in some startling way.
It didn’t set Hattie apart from every other girl yearning to leave the small town and hit the big city.
I'd rate this 4.5 stars.Hattie Hoffman is a talented, intelligent, beautiful high school senior who wants more out of life than her small Minnesota hometown can offer.
The book is narrated by Hattie, Del, and Peter Lund, Hattie's English teacher, who is reasonably new to town, and it shifts between the months and days leading up to Hattie's murder and the investigation.Mindy Mejia throws in lots of twists and turns, and while the cynical, frequent-mystery-reading me suspected absolutely everyone, I really liked how she let the story unfold.
"My little girl is dead.
And I'll be damned if I'm going to sit around and pick out her funeral dress while her killer walks around free".
I found this entire story more sad than I did chilling.For me - it represented the pressures of life - a teenagers life - a couple's life - family life - school community life - suppressed people going through the motions of daily life more numb than thriving.
The author, Mindy Mejjia definitely has talent to get into the heads of her characters--and keep us hooked from beginning to end.
There isn't a single person Hattie won’t alter herself to please, yet she’s very self-aware and knows exactly where her choices will lead her.(Well, almost.) She is young and erratic, talented and relentless, and she’s harboring one killer of a secret.
This story is told in first person and alternates between three narrators, Hattie included.
The plot takes a slow and steady path that leads up to Hattie's death, offering some well-played out twists along the way.
But I can’t help feeling that the actual “idea” of this captivated me just a little bit more.
It has bits of suspense, psychological thriller, police procedural, YA, and family drama, all wrapped up in a big ball of rapid page-turning unputdownability.
This is a story told from 3 points of view and in two rather close time frames.
I was really wrung out at the end of this, in a good way.The characters are wonderfully drawn, especially Hattie and Peter, but the more minor members of the cast are also well characterized.
I highly recommend it to all readers who are looking for a good story.
3.5 starsThere are two questions this story will demand you find an answer to - who is the real Hattie Hoffman and why would anyone want her dead?
To her best friend, parents, boyfriend and fellow-classmates; Hattie is a great listener, a wholesome girl, a top-notch student and an aspiring actress.
Being told from three very distinct perspectives - Del, the cynical old sheriff in town that’s happens to be best friends with Hattie’s parents, Peter, the English professor who finds himself trapped in a life he never wanted and Hattie herself, makes for a nice flow.
This is a tight, believable story with good writing and characters you care about.I can’t go so far as to say this is a wow, but it is a first-class murder mystery.
I don’t like to talk plot because I prefer to go into a book cold and I figure it’s the same for others.
I can see why the author threw in a cop, though, because it was handy to have someone trying to figure it all out.But boy was I bummed that Hattie died.
A good mystery, fast-paced plot, and well-drawn characters, combined with smooth, no-nonsense no-fluff writing, really made the book delicious.
Started reading and the name of the town, Pine Valley jumped out at me, All my Children, soap opera of many years, thought to myself, Please to not let this be soap operish.
Narrated in turns by Hattie herself and two others, we learn of the events leading up to her murder.This was so much more than I expected, better than most I read last year.
The other characters, the family friend, police officer, the high school English teacher who wants to be elsewhere, compelling.So I surprised myself by also giving this a high rating, this author can write but more importantly she can put together a story.ARC from Netgalley.
Everything You Want Me to Be★★★★ 4 Stars! "You say you're just acting, but you're fracturing yourself into a thousand pieces, and every time I see another piece, you're gone again. You turn into someone else, a crowd of someone elses, and it makes me wonder if there's any such thing as Hattie Hoffman". From Everything you Want Me To BeI received a free advance e-copy of this book from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review, thank you!****************************************
She is talented, popular and looking forward to starting life after school pursuing her dreams of becoming a professional actress.But Hattie possesses two very distinctive qualities: she is a masterful manipulator and is capable of transforming herself into anyone and anything people want her to be.
No sooner are we are amused by one of her pranks or charmed by her wit and shrewd sense of humor, than we find ourselves appalled by the great lengths she is willing to go in order to get what she wants.The challenge for an author writing a whodunit is keeping readers engaged once they know what the outcome of the story is (in this case we've learned very early that Hattie is dead).
I thought that the character named Hattie was so sturdy that she would never die.
I kind of expected the multiple POV that gives us glimpses in the fictional world of Hattie.
It has become - for the better or the worse - a staple treatment.I decided in the end that Hattie 'worked' as a goody-two-shoes.
It's a new thing for me to read about murder the way it is depicted in the book.
It makes for a nice change of lieu from books ranging from thrillers to chick lits.In the end the ambition of the book exceeds its value.
Wow, I would give a 4.5 rating to this book. I just loved it, it was very hard to put this book down for any length of time. This was is another wonderful debut novel, with a few characters that really stood out as great people. This story about Hattie, a high school senior, and an obsession that turns to murder and the upheaval of lives in a small town.Thank you to NetGalley and Atria/Emily Bestler Books for the ARC
3.5 Stars.
Beware the consequences of pursuing your darkest desires........Hattie was stabbed to death at the young age of eighteen.
She had her whole life ahead of her, but she chose to live dangerously.....in a world of manipulation.....a world she thought she could control.....until the frightening end.EVERYTHING YOU WANT ME TO BE is the story of Hattie's tumultuous last year of high school told from three different perspectives: County Sheriff Del Goodman, (wanted more of him) aspiring English Processor Peter Lund, and the devilish Hattie herself.
We paint upon the walls of our soul, ironically, the only hue that can be recognized solely by our own eyes.Hattie Hoffman is full center stage in what transpires here in tiny Pine Valley, Minnesota.
Silence.Detective Del Goodman heads the investigation into Hattie's murder.
And like most small towns, the clues are sifted the old-fashioned way.Mindy Mejia presents this story, chapter and verse, through the voices of Hattie, Del, and Peter.
Perhaps it may be enough.Everything You Want Me to Be is still a well written story in the hands of Mejia.
The story alternates between three perspectives: • Hattie, the victim - Her chapters take place over the 2007-2008 school year, her senior year of high school.
I liked Hattie, but I enjoyed reading about her more through the other character's eyes.
Other characters either become someone they don't recognize or watch someone they thought they knew morph into a completely different person.
Books I thought about while reading:• Everything I Never Told You: the title, a teenager who was pretending to be someone she wasn't, a broken marriage between two people who want different things, and the addictive quality of the writing.
When 18-year-old Hattie Hoffman is found murdered, the small community in Pine Bluff, Minnesota is in shock.
She doesn’t fit in small town Pine Bluff, Minnesota, and dreams of the day she can leave for New York.
Hattie’s well on her way to graduating and moving to NYC without anyone ever really knowing “the real Hattie.” However, a wrench is thrown in her plan in the form of her new English teacher, Peter Lund.
Del’s chapters irked me—I just wanted to get through them to get back to Hattie and Lund.
Hattie was a star in Pine Bluff and the star of this novel.
Like so many teenagers living in small towns, 18-year-old Hattie Hoffman wanted out of Pine Valley.
She is a people pleaser and for each individual she was everything they wanted her to be.Quotes from the book:Every book changes you in some way, whether it’s your perspective on the world or how you define yourself in relation to the world.” “MOST PEOPLE think acting is make-believe.
Like it’s a big game where people put on costumes and feign kisses or stab wounds and then pretend to gasp and die.
I loved this book! I now understand the term book crack! This book was utterly addicting. I am so glad that it came recommended to me and that I had a chance to read it. I honestly could not stop reading, and when I had to take breaks I found myself talking about it and trying to predict the outcome. By far, this has been one of my favorite reads of the summer and possibly one of my favorite reads of 2016! Yes, it was that good! Highly addictive!
This is a cleverly written novel of suspense featuring not one, not two, but three first person perspectives.Hattie has grown up in Pine Valley, and is bursting to break free.
Peter, who is Hattie’s high school English teacher, gives us his perspective, as he explains how he came to live in Pine Valley with his wife, Mary.
She has big dreams and hopes and nothing is going to get in her way of what she wants...For me, this story was deeply absorbing and hard to put down.
I loved her writing style and her ability to pull me so deeply into the story, building suspense at just the right pace.
THREE STARSIn all fairness, this book is too YA for me. It is a beautifully written story with all the innocence of a small Midwestern town that seems like it is set in the 50's, but it's actually a contemporary story. Also, it was just making me too sad since the plot revolves around the murder of a high-school girl. As a true-crime fanatic, I've been more than a little obsessed with the Mollie Tibbetts' real-life abduction in the Midwest and reading this book at the same time was really bad timing on my part.
High school senior Henrietta "Hattie" Hoffman loves literature and the theatre and is desperate to leave her rural Minnesotan hometown behind to start an acting career in her dream place, New York City.
In addition to Hattie's first-person perspective, we hear from Del Goodman, the town's sheriff, who is also a good friend of Hattie's Dad and has known Hattie all her life, and from Peter Lund, the high school English teacher, who recently left Minneapolis at his wife's request to move in with his mother-in-law whose health was rapidly deteriorating.
WOW!
This book is BRILLIANT!This is one of those rare books that captivates, gets its hooks into you and refuses to let go.
One of those books which causes you to snarl and growl like a rabid dog if anyone dares to try and interrupt your reading.
Mindy Mejia is an outstanding author.Hattie is a good girl.
They focus on Hattie; make her the centre of their lives.
It is entirely plausible, realistic.
Thank you to NetGalley and Quercus for providing a digital ARC of The Last Act of Hattie Hoffman by Mindy Mejia for review.
All opinions expressed in this review are entirely my own.
Hattie, a small town girl who is soon to graduate high school, has big dreams of acting and moving to New York.
She loves to act-in fact her whole life can be described as one long play, with her changing into multiple characters, depending on whom she is interacting with.This is the story of Hattie's last year on Earth, as she is found murdered in a barn on the opening night of her last high school play.
Told through 3 voices, (Hattie's, the small town detective, and Peter, the high school drama teacher) the story goes back in time and builds up to Hattie's final moments, and leading to the big reveal.
This was a big genre switch for me — a murder mystery rather than a romance — and it was seriously SO WELL WRITTEN!!!!
The story is told from three perspectives and the way they come together is fascinating, insightful, and mysterious.
It pulled me into the story and made me genuinely curious to see what would happen next and the ending gives all the answers you're searching for throughout the book.
It's rare for me to read this genre (I'm a romance reader) but I'd highly recommend this for anyone looking for a great murder mystery novel!!!➜ http://amzn.to/2iON7tW
"Most people think acting is make-believe...They don't understand that acting is becoming someone else, changing your thoughts and needs until you don't remember your own anymore. You let the other person invade everything you are and then you turn yourself inside out, spilling their identity onto the stage like a kind of bloodletting. Sometimes I think acting is a disease, but I can't say for sure because I don't know what it's like to be healthy."–HattieThis book was a steady, subtle joy to r
Sometimes I think acting is a disease, but I can't say for sure because I don't know what it's like to be healthy."–HattieThis book was a steady, subtle joy to read.
I can't begin to count how many literary mysteries and thrillers I've read, so it's always nice to not guess the ending correctly.
Equally fabulous were all the literary allusions, characters that were book nerds, and the setting admidst a couple of theater plays like Jane Eyre and Macbeth.
The main character, Hattie, has always felt like a big fish in a little pond in her rural Minnesotan farming community.
"You turn into someone else, a crowd of someone elses, and it makes me wonder if there's any such thing as Hattie Hoffman."To her parents, Hattie is the perfect daughter, the spunky Minnesota farm girl who does well in school and never causes trouble.
And goodness help him; he wants to let her.To Sheriff Del Goodman, Hattie Hoffman is a murder victim.
The key to finding her killer is in discovering the true Hattie Hoffman-- someone not even she knew until it was too late.This is one of the best thrillers I've read in a long time.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/EverythingGIRL You Want Me To Be (name change courtesy of Ron 2.0 because really this is one of those times where it actually might be “the next Gone Girl” or Girl on the Train or some such GIRL story) already has people talking.
Good ol’ teach attempts to put the kibosh on things (mainly so his wife doesn’t catch wind of what he’s really been “working” on in his home office every night), but Hattie isn’t on board with that plan .
