https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67956.Dying_of_the_Light
This is the precursor to the series we know, only it's Science Fiction.It's easy to get carried away with the misogynic society of men and the desire of a single woman to free herself after having got caught, and it is a major theme, at first, but then we begin to see how truly disturbing the society is not because it does such male-centered things, but because of it's tragic history and how it had almost died out because it had lost most of its females, and as such, had changed them into true treasures and communal properties over a few generations despite the original star-faring society being perfectly egalitarian.
Dar iată că timpul vieții și luminii se apropie de sfârșit, planeta îndepărtându-se încet și implacabil de Roata de Foc. Pe această lume muribundă ajunge Dirk t’Larien, răspunzând la chemarea fostei lui iubite, Gwen Delvano, care studiază interacțiunea dintre formele de viață ale planetei.
Confuz și încă suferind din cauza trecutului, Dirk descoperă că Gwen este prinsă într-o relație destul de complicată cu kavalaanul Jaantony Vikary, patrician Ironjade și teyn-ul acestuia, Garse Ironjade Janacek.
Șocat de brutalitatea culturii kavalaane pe care nu o înțelege, Dirk decide să facă tot ce îi stă în puteri pentru a o elibera pe Gwen din încorsetările unei tradiții ce reduce femeile la statutul de obiect, de proprietate.
Atraído por su gravedad, Worlorn se volvió temporalmente un lugar apto para la vida, y fue de este modo como pudo albergar El Festival de los Mundos, una serie de colonias de diferentes planetas que llevaron su tecnología y cultura mientras el calor de El Gordo Satanás lo permitió.Pero ahora Worlorn se aleja de La Rueda, y en él sólo quedan unos pocos habitantes, además de los fantasmas de ciudades que ya olvidaron sus días de esplendor.Si esa imagen no seduce a los fans de la ciencia ficción, no se qué puede hacerlo.
When Dirk t’Larien is summoned there by Gwen, the ex-girlfriend he still loves, he discovers that Worlorn is no longer a festival planet.
When Dirk gets to Worlorn, he unwittingly walks right into the middle of a tense situation and only makes it worse.Dying of the Light, first published in 1977, is George R.R. Martin’s debut novel and it’s impressive.
The setting is wonderful: a dying planet getting farther and farther away from its sun; abandoned cities; jungles with strange and deadly life forms; fascinating cultures.
I’d love to read about the fifty sunny years on Worlorn, for example.Unfortunately, none of George R.R. Martin’s characters are likable.
Este un roman diferit de ultimele creații ale scriitorului, dar mult mai uman și mai profund. Accentul nu cade aici pe istoria unei lumi, ci pe o istorie privată, a personajelor, care iubesc, urăsc și suferă pe o planetă muribundă, aruncată într-un univers ostil. Pe scurt - o carte impresionantă!
This could have been a one-star book if not only because of the interesting parts of the worldbuilding - a dying world - and also because I don't want to group a GRRM book with real, trashy books that I hate.
The story probably should have stayed as short fiction, like A Song for Lya. I thought the conflicts were not interesting enough to make a full novel.
The planetary romance part of it was really yawn inducing too, I felt like slapping the two main characters, and also myself because I was so sleepy.
Aside from the group slapping, I actually thought the glossary was more interesting than the book content.
This is truly one of the best books ever written.
But the characters...
my gosh, the characters!
You will not find a single character in this novel that is not fully formed.
But next time a teacher tries to tell you how wonderful "The Great Gatsby" is, roll your eyes, buy a copy of this book for them, and introduce them to what true American writing can look like.
At less than 300 pages, it is not a significant time investment, though it will stick with you for years.Am I gushing?
It's only because this is one of my favorite books of all time.
If he had acted like he was acting now from the beginning I might have sympathized, but by now, I feel I’m definitely in the anti-hero camp of things, and I just want the book to be over, because I want a happy ending for him, and Dirk made that accidentally impossible, and I’m just tired.***Now that it’s finished, I’m surprised how spot on I was.
I guess it still works as a happy ending in the romance area of the book, but I’m not entirely sure, and well, It’s only two thirds the way I wanted it to be.
An interesting, complex debut novel from George RR Martin, Dying Of The Light is an old-school planetary romance that reminded me quite strongly of both Cordwainer Smith and CJ Cherryh, oddly enough, though the setting is pure Jack Vance.
Caught between his love for Gwen, his growing respect for her husband, who is on Worlorn to thwart the hunters and his troubled search for his own sense of self, Dirk becomes enmeshed in the struggle and the divided loyalties and the battle between the old and the new, haunted by the spectre of death on a dying planet.Martin's strengths as a world-builder and a story-teller are on full display here.
I was in love with this novel early in life and have it indelibly stamped upon me.
The atmosphere: ruins on an abandoned planet, a few people left there, devoted to things lost or old-fashioned or with nowhere else to go.
It used to be a festival world and different races built their festival-houses, alien architectures now derelict.
Sadness and ends, lost causes and left-behinds...
It's true that I found both Dirk and Gwen ignorable; Garse was my guy, along with bit-parts from his world.
I think I like early George R.R. Martin.
Este foi um livro que não me prendeu a atenção no começo, pois eu havia ficado um pouco confuso com os nomes dos planetas e seus mundos, mas no momento em que a história de Dirk t'Larien e Gwen Delvano começou a se desenrolar eu não conseguia tirar o olho do livro em algumas partes.
Recomendo que passem bem longe desse e partam direto para Westeros!Pontos fortes: as (poucas) partes de ação.Pontos fracos: o blábláblá em relação aos planetas e mundos (muito enrolativo).Avaliação: 2/5
It's a little much for me.
I like a little of that for sure, because all simple dialog makes a story dull.
But at some point I just feel like saying "Get to the point already!".
As a very straightforward person it's a little painful to listen to people speaking in riddles.
It just feels a little too dragged out for my tastes.
Ever tried communicating?So, I'm not deleting this from my iPod YET, since I might just try again later when I'm feeling more patient, but for now I have happily moved on to another book, which was interesting from the start.
yo desde luego no creo que llegara a las mismas conclusiones o decisiones si me viera en la mayoría de las situaciones que se presentan ante los personajes principales: Gwen, Dirk y Jaan.Por otro lado la trama me parece bastante predecible, me he encontrado pocas sorpresas.En todo caso la prosa de Martin está muy bien construida, y el libro tiene bastantes puntos a su favor, he disfrutado la lectura.
His old lover, an ecologist, is busy studying the dying of the planet's ecosystems.She's married - or 'betheyn' - to Vikary, a man from a harsh, warlike culture, and is also bound sexually and culturally to his partner.But another old friend of hers is also there - and he speaks, in confidence, telling Dirk that she really wants to be rescued - that she is enslaved and oppressed.A psychosexual drama ensues between these four - one with plenty of action and violence, but also dealing with the frictions and attractions between personalities, the complexities of human relationships and the differences between cultures.Really a great book.
For more details, please visit: https://fansf.wordpress.com/2013/04/1....
Und es tut mir wirklich leid, das sagen zu müssen: Man merkt sehr gut, dass es das erste Buch des Autors war.Der Schreibstil war zwar nicht schlecht, aber auch nicht überragend.
Durch die Beschreibungen der Welt, hat George R.R. Martin einiges wett gemacht, was mir an dem Buch nicht gefallen hat.
Er hat hier eine Welt geschaffen, die es kein zweites Mal gibt, einen Planeten, der durch seine Einzigartigkeit besticht.Auch verschiedene actionreichere Szenen waren gut durchdacht und haben mir gefallen.
Dirk ging mir gegen Ende ein wenig auf die Nerven und auch mit Gewn bin ich nicht richtig warm geworden.
This book is stand out for feeling fresh and new, as if it were released just last week.Another great accomplishment of this book is that it is a perfect example of Martin creating a rich and layered mythology in a vast universe while successfully telling a very intimate story.
This is an entire universe, completely different from our reality, and that makes it thrilling.
But the story is simply told so as to be contained in one book, and that makes it powerful.I highly recommend this book if you are in to epic scale science fiction or fantasy, but want a break from the daunting mega-series' that are the fashion these days.
George R.R. Martin created an incredibly rich universe where human civilisation is rebuilding itself after war and collapse, then, in its midst, placed an ephemeral planet in advanced decay.
But then, he chose to put against this backdrop the sorriest characters in that universe.
The result is a tedious story where you grow frustrated by the very same protagonists you are supposed to identify with, and not feel sorry at all for their sad fate.The ecology of Worlorn is never successfully explored, the history of the worlds beyond the veil, their cultures and politics, aside from Kavalaar, are not addressed, nevertheless these remain the highlights of this book.Martin's writing is beautiful as well, but in my opinion, any other story in that universe would have made a far superior novel.
There isn't really a lot about High Kavalan society that doesn't come off as sounding extremely oppressive--especially if one happens to be female--yet I was intrigued by the teyn-teyn relationship, this male-male bond in all senses of the word, warrior-brothers and lovers (in a sense) which when compared with modern society would still be considered non-traditional to many, especially in the 1970s when this was written.
It is amazing that, in all of the relationships in this book--Dirk and Gwen, Gwen and Jaan, Jaan and Garse--none of the characters plays second fiddle to any of the others.
Martin built an enormous universe just for this tiny world. It built an entire culture made of feudal violence, that fights to cope with the modernity of space travel, lost and found in the centuries.The planet is dying, and life will end in cold darkness.Remind of anything?
(Abbruch nach 178 Seiten)Konnte mich nicht wirklich packen und ich will versuchen, mich nicht mehr so oft unnötig durch eine Geschichte zu "quälen".
Jaan, Gwen's lover/husband/owner, is a cosmopolitan guy -- they met on the high-tech world of Avalon -- and their relationship wasn't a problem until he brought her home to meet the family.
Specifically, to Jaan's shieldbrother/lover/husband Garse, who is, well, more progressive than Kavalar average but still a shock to Gwen.The societal clash has pushed the trio out to Worlorn, nominally for ecological research, actually to get away from it all.
But it's safe to say that Martin *never* implies that Gwen should be grateful for what she's got, and at the end of the book she's created something better.)Bujold, of course, spends books and years trying to draw what's admirable about Barrayar out from the mountain of blood and pain it rests on.
Exceptional for a first novel.
Still a really really good sci-fi novel forty years later.
Martin has always had a talent for depicting power relations between characters, and there's always a lot of subtle stuff going on between characters -- I saw it the first thing I read of his, the werewolf novella Skin Trade, and then in Fevre Dream, and then in A Song of Ice and Fire, but it was on display all the way back here, in spades.
The pacing, particularly in the last couple of chapters, is not as good as some of his stuff, but the actual ending is satisfying, and the whole well worthwhile.
Well, GRRM has come a long way since 1977’s “Dying of the Light”.
Set in a distant dying planet, Dirk is called for by his long lost love, who is embroiled in a strange relationship with men who are basically early sci-fi prototypes of the Dothraki.
But overall, I didn’t like this book much.
There was way too much lore and world-building exposition crammed in a very short book, and sometimes the descriptions overshadowed the action.
Muchos toques al estilo Canción de Hielo y Fuego; el crear una historia de clanes, muertes contadas de la manera más brusca, personajes con dos caras (El kimdissi bien podría ser la araña de Canción de Hielo y Fuego) y la historia de amor que vertebra el libro.
Digo que el libro va de más a menos porque, tras crear el mundo y meternos en su historia, termina cayendo en la repetición en donde el pobre protagonista va saliendo de una para meterse en otra y a mi me queda el mal sabor de boca de que la historia no termina de estar bien hilada.
For being his first-ever, this novel by GRRM is quite good. Took me time to get into the plotline, and wasn't particularly impressed by the protagonists but rather was more drawn towards the secondary characters. There's a number of small details that will have veteran "A Song of Ice and Fire" fans (amongst which I am) chuckling in recognition, because certain details that are read about in the much more famous ASOIAF series germinated here.Overall, a decent book and great for comparison and analysis on how this author's style has evolved.
De los cinco personajes principales, tengo que decir que mi preferido ha resultado ser el que menos esperaba, Garse Janacek.Quiero dejar claro que si eres un fan de GOT y pretendes encontrar aquí más sobre los Siete Reinos, mejor no pierdas el tiempo, las historias no son comparables, principalmente porque no puedes comparar 300 páginas con más de 5.000 y, además, porque no tienen nada que ver una con la otra.
Pero poco a poco los personajes van explicando como funcionan los clanes y qué ha ocurrido en Worlorn y una vez te metes de lleno en la historia ya no puedes salir.Como diría un miembro del Alto Kavalaan: "Honor a tu clan.
This is one of the shorter GRRM works I've read, but still, the depth of detail and setting is amazing, it's like what you'd expect of A Song Of Ice And Fire. The writing is amazing, very impressive and the story, though practically a love story is one helluva fun read. there's no doubting it, GRRM is the master of fantasy writing.
Brutto, scritto male, noioso, personaggi piattissimi, trama banale...le uniche cose che si salvano sono l'idea di partenza del pianeta Worlorn e la storia con i suoi usi e costumi di Alto Kavalaan. Due stelle e sono pure troppe...
Este último está manejado con gran habilidad, para mostrarnos claramente como cada cultura nos restringe y limita nuestra forma de ver la realidad.Aunque durante el último tercio de la obra se pierde un poco de ritmo, a pesar de que la historia se convierte en una brutal cacería por el mundo abandonado, Martin logra imprimirle la suficiente fuerza a la lucha interna del protagonista.
Lo que está claro es que el final elegido por el escritor desde luego no dejará indiferente a ningún lector.Muerte de la Luz es una historia de amor y sacrificio, y sobre todo de lucha contra los condicionantes culturales que nos convierten en lo que somos.
