https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/406894.A_Logic_Named_Joe
Fluff, but good fun.The Duplicators****Golden Age SF in the grand style, and a delightful exploration of economics, without ever seeming to be so.
Bron Hoddan was born and raised on the pirate planet of Zan, but left because the pirate life was boring and restrictive.
Boring because in any year, there is only about 30 seconds of excitement, and restrictive because everyone on the planet has to appear (and, in fact, to be) poor and simple to avoid getting hanged for piracy.
He goes to Walden, the most civilized planet in the galaxy, and gets himself arrested and sentenced to life in prison for using his brains.
This was the first book I read when I found out about the Baen Free Library, incidentally one of the best resources for someone who has excessive free time in front of a computer.
This collection was not only the first book I read in the Baen Free Library, but it was also my first look at dated, period science fiction.
We have...well you saw it, we have altruistic space pirates, nuclear-powere djinn, a time-traveling kangaroo...nothing more needs to be said, does it?If my wholehearted endorsement isn't enough to convince you into giving this one a go, slip over to the Baen Free Library and read a bit for yourself before committing.
An interesting if somewhat disjointed story about a reluctant space pirate who really wants to just be an engineer and settle down with a nice girl.
Social commentary is the most interesting aspect of the story in its description of dysfunctional planetary populations founded by earlier Earth expeditions to the stars.
A pure space opera with no nods to hard SF, it is a light read and much different from any possible current works likely to be up for Hugo consideration.Entertaining to me, but probably more suited to the completist of the fiction of this notable SF pioneer.
I'm a sucker for classic SF .
even not-very-good classic SF.
And I liked it, but only just.
There may be a reason why Leinster isn't better known today: his work, while ground breaking, wasn't very good.
He may have been on the cutting edge of "Brave New World", "1984" and "Green Hills of Earth" type stories--his "Pirate of Zan" is almost an "Atlas Shrugged" meets "The Pirates of Penzance"--but his weren't quite so good.
Some of his better SF ideas, like "Gateway to Elsewhere" got trapped in 1940s style detective/adventure trappings.A fun read, but just barely.
Murray Leinster's "A Logic Named Joe" was published in 1946 and is eerily good at telling the future. He has future machines called "logics" that are networked and can help people communicate and find answers for their users.It totally predicts the Internet and the problems that happen when kids can find bomb making info on their computers (logics) and private information about their neighbors.The story itself is probably only a 3 star but I gave it an extra star for being so great at predicting the Internet.
Обычно пропускаю, а тут вчиталась - "Нужно ли боятся роботов?" Вопрос неплохой, а думалось мне, что повести как раз покажут разные отношения к этой проблеме именно из-за временного разрыва между повестями, который мне казался намного больше, а в сборнике в большинстве своем 50-60-ые года.
Но из-за угла торчит нос профессора Кэлвин и слышится "Уничтожить такой самовольный компьютер!" 5/5"Виртуоз" Герберт Голстоун (1953) Робот-пианист, который осознал, что ничтожен, а музыка слишком не проста, что бы относится к ней без души.
50/5"Роб-ерта и Роб-ерт" Хосе Гарсиа МартинесКрасивейшая зарисовка про вероломность роботов, которые настолько человекоподобны, что люди даже на них женятся, не понимая, что это роботы.
Murray Leinster's marvellous story which gives the first glimpse of something like the Internet, collected with other stories.
"Gateway To Elsewhere" is an adventure story about a clever common man who, having found himself in a different world that's stuck in an era out of Arabian Nights tales, makes use of his wits to overcome his foes and get married to a beautiful girl from the local royalty.
"The Duplicators" is an adventure story about a clever common man who, having found himself on a different planet that's stuck in the Medieval era, makes use of his wits to overcome his foes and get married to a beautiful girl from the local royalty.
Gateway to Elsewhere - Suppose that in another dimension, the world of the Arabian Nights is real, including very powerful and very dangerous djinns, who are nothing like Aladdin's big blue pal.
A man from our world wouldn't have a chance against them .
The Duplicators - A planet with a machine which can duplicate anything would be the wealthiest world in the galaxy, right?
Plus three short stories, including "A Logic Named Joe," an uncannily prophetic story of home computers and the internet - written in 1946!
I have learned that I am not always capable of ignoring rampant misogyny in SF.
For an expanded explanation see my rant here: http://geekgirlsrule.wordpress.com/20...
Seriously, I just could not get past the Gary Stu nature of all his protagonists.
I wanted to like this collection, because I've enjoyed the title selection in other anthologies, and I really and truly adore Eric Flint and wanted to like it because he obviously thought enough of Leinster to edit the collection, but man...
So, even though I've stopped in the middle of one of the stories, I don't think I'll be finishing this one.
Trike says, about the title short, "There's a great SF short story called A Logic Named Joe by Murray Leinster that is a freakishly accurate description of how we use computers and the Internet today, but because it was written 70 years ago (seriously: 1946), the names he uses for things we experience everyday are different. That is just enough of a difference to make it difficult to read, but if you swap out the specific words you can see he's talking about Parentsl Controls and YouTube and FaceTime and Internet trolls and the Dark Net."
A very entertaining collection of short stories and novellas. I was reminded of Slippery Jim DeGriz from the Stainless Steel Rat stories, although I know these were written way before that. The best part of the stories in this collection is that, although they were written in the 40's and 50's, they are surprisingly non-antiquated. The fact that Murray Leinster predicted the internet and smartphones in 1946 just blew me away! - April 6, 2013
A reprint of some fantastic short stories and novels by Murray Leinster (who has been almost completely forgotten by the sci-fi world, but deserves to be far better known). The title story nearly perfectly predicts personal computers and cloud computing -- complete with privacy concerns -- and was written in 1946. Well worth the time and money for anyone who enjoys science fiction.
This book introduced me to Murray Leinster. It's also a collection of several books and short stories. The title "A logic named Joe" is the short story that predicted the internet, in 1946.
Best chapter is a send up of time travel called "Dear Charles"
Interesting story about a A.I.
Really good collection of stories, very fun read.
Bit of useless trivia. Murray Leinster is the pen name of Will F. Jenkins. Once I found out that this book predicted the internet in 1946, I had to read it! Overall I liked the story. 3.5 stars
Available at Baen Free Library.
Fascinating from the point of view of how prescient Leinster was, but I didn't enjoy the story. Worth reading if you like digging into the history of SF.
A Logic Named Joe by Murray Leinster (2000)
