https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97333.At_Swim_Two_Birds
I searched through all the Pages I have open on the screen and found it finally - it had gone off to become the first paragraph in another review - Vanishing Points - where it says it hopes to be better treated, work shorter hours and be generally better liked than here At Swim-Two-Birds.
As I was a student myself when I first read about him, and not averse to sleeping late and missing lectures, it’s not surprising that his bed is pretty much all I remember...hmm, another dead en..beginning.2014 will always be associated with Finnegans Wake for me.
Did not think that anything more zany than the 'Third Policeman' was possible (people who like 'Lost' should check the book out, by the way)...
On my first read of this book (in 2009) I was too entranced with the main plot device of the characters plotting against the author, etc and probably overlooked the insane ironies, the scathing parodies and the Joycean aspects.
Consider: Flann O’Brien offers the reader three possible openings and even has his narrator remark that a satisfactory novel should be a self-evident sham to which the reader could regulate at will the degree of his credulity.Now I know why this is a classic.
A must read for Borges and Calvino fans.
Anyway, the very next book I pick up to read is Flann O’Brien’s At Swim-Two-Birds, the whole point of which is that characters in novels are autonomous beings, and what an author or reader compels them to act out or live through in a novel actually happens to them, and that these characters can bleed through into our reality and begin to take action on us.
It also documents a rebellion of the characters against the author, almost as if they were actors disputing with the playwright or the director (a major, credited influence on Christine Brooke-Rose's "Textermination").It’s like listening to a drunk tell a tale while you’re also drunk in the company of other drunks who interject and interfere with the narrative (view spoiler)[(so much so that the story starts to belong to the audience as much as the principal storyteller) (hide spoiler)], and then trying to recall it the following day in bed, when you’re suffering from the greatest hangover ever experienced by an Irishman.Necessary or Probable CauseThis literary device plays around with our perceptions of causation:"All things change, making way for each other." There is no one cause, but many.
Here is how this goes.
On an intellectual level, at Swim two Birds is nonpareil.
Its like watching an expert surgeon performing keyhole surgery par excellence: not a wrong move, each clinical motion precisely fitted and flowing effortlessly into the next: a symphony of elegantly executed literary manoeuvres which coalesce discrete etudes into a continuo of cohesiveness: no faults.
Innovative, large, yet humble, sprawling, yet mindful of an epicentre, gargantuan ambition anchored in realistic tether, liquid flowing prose with perfectly timed rhythm: what is there to complain about?Nothing.Yet here I am on my ship, and there Flan O’Brian is on his, and we pass each other in the night.
If a book could be a Mobius strip or a Klein bottle it would probably not be At Swim Two Birds because At Swim Two Birds is much weirder than those things.
In fact this book is the gold standard of weirdness.
There is of course the New Weird or Bizarro fiction which I've yet to try.
At Swim Two Birds was published in 1939 and it has beauty, wit and heart, a lot of Irishness and a lot of Shandyness.
Or let's say "plot" become a distant dream by chapter three.
This was the Ireland of "Angela's Ashes".While Joyce and Beckett made their escape (hell, even the McCourts made their escape), Flann O'Brien stayed, working for most of his life in the Irish civil service.
The lamenting of a wounded otter in a black hole, sweeter than harpstrings that.O'Brien unleashed the book in 1939, hardly the time for "exuberant literary experiments".
(Shades of Bulgarov, it was published posthumously in 1967)In 1940, under the pseudonym Myles na Gopaleen (Miles of the little horses), O'Brien began to write a regular satirical column in The Irish Times.
Like a cool, fresh, glitteringly dark draught of Guinness and the churning splash in your belly and brain afterwards....a quick trip through several layers of fiction which, properly speaking, aren't on any map at all...not bad for a brilliant newrag hack who liked the sauce and went through half a dozen pen names...Joyce (inescapable as infuence here, as in so many things, and yet splendidly rebuffed within the contours of this antic yarn) would have been proud- and proud he was, we have on fairly solid evidence that it was the last book he ever read, with magnifying glass and milkman's outfit to catch the shine of the sun, and put it aside with the approving, Elysian murmur "this man has the true comic spirit." q.E.D.*** Here's a part of a small paper I wrote about the book in comparison with Joyce:Realism Squared: “At Swim-Two-Birds” As Joycean Counter-Sublime	In this paper I will try to show how Flann O’Brien’s novel “At Swim- Two- Birds” exemplifies Harold Bloom’s concept of the ‘counter-sublime’ as a response to the powerful textual influence of Joyce, one of his authentic textual precursors.
Unfortunately, after slogging through the last 80 or so pages of random witterings, I can't remember what they were or why I enjoyed them.
Words, words, words." -HAMLET, Act II, scene 2 2.
In the immortal words of Crash Davis, in BULL DURHAM: "I'm too old for this shit".
3. This is a work of brilliance, one of the great Irish novels.
Having come to a standstill on page 127, I reread Gass' introduction, and feel that I know less about the book than when I first read the introduction.
The young novelist does not believe in starting and ending his novel with only one scenario so he begins his story with three separate scenes that get interweave later in the narration.
Then I also laughed in the scene when Dermot is being tortured and he says to Pooka to turn him into a female so he can marry Pooka.
However, I read in the Wiki that this book was supposed to be a satire of the political conditions in Ireland during the time of its writing so there must be an explanation on those.Lastly, I started reading this book alongside another book entitled At Swim, Two Boys by another Irish writer, Jamie O’Neill.
3.5/5 But which of us can hope to probe with questioning finger the dim thoughts that flit in a fool's head. I will admit, I liked The Third Policeman better. I will also admit to holding this as the better book, one with recognizable traces of TTP amidst so much more. There, alongside the author's singular wit and superb hand at mixing the pragmatic with the absurd until neither can tell which is the other, is performance, is parody, is a supreme consideration of reality's dance with fiction bo
There's a hint of that in At Swim-Two-Birds, a heavy dose of it near the end bringing some satisfaction to my Bioengineering bred sensibilities, but unfortunately for me O'Brien was far more focused this time on classical mind, specifically of the Irish.
A boisterous and boozy and far too long abed heart, to be sure, but here there is a heart bulleting its way to the soul of the fiction of the time, the odes and cowboys and morality gimmicks and all the poor charactered creations succored away from their easy nonexistence and spit out onto a stage of the so called author's making.
I suppose it's like the ying to Beckett's yang--both completely discount plot, but one is lighthearted and comical while the other is laborious and depressing.The absurdity of the book is always right on the surface, which follows the rule that "a satisfactory novel should be a self-evident sham to which the reader could regulate at will the degree of his credulity" (33).
The funniest part, though, comes after reading three pages or so of this absurd, inane, jocular, puerile, argument when you realize that you have been completely absorbed in it.
A wealth of references to existing works would acquaint the reader instantaneously with the nature of each character, would obviate tiresome explanations and would effectively preclude mountebanks, upstarts, thimbleriggers and persons of inferior education from an understanding of contemporary literature.
Conclusion of explanation.That is all my bum, said Brinsley.Biographical reminiscence, part the first:It was not many pages in before this explanation of the novel came to the perusal of my ocular sense, at which point I swiftly began to form the opinion that I myself was indeed such a mountebank, upstart, thimblerigger.
My Irish wife will be ecstatic!You know what I’m going to do for you good kids?
I’m going to explain, in intricate and hyper-articulate fashion, why At Swim-Two-Birds is a perfect novel.
I’m going to do this in such a manner that even Flann O’Brien would be jealous.
Then, for my second act, I’m going to simultaneously pull a rabbit out of a hat, pass a camel through the eye of a needle, and play a note-perfect solo of “Donna Lee” on cornet.
Beckett and Joyce are the cherries on my Irish cupcake (green frosting, 28.9% alcohol content); Thin Lizzy and Flann O’Brien are my vegan meat and potatoes.
But seriously folks, take my mother, really, take her please, and make sure she doesn't have to read this stand up routine masquerading, quite self-consciously, as a novel, or rather a novel about a novel, or, to be quite precise, a record by the narrator about his life while writing a novel about a pub-owner writing a novel about characters stolen from other novels, in which those characters spend all their time telling stories and reciting poems, i.e., kind of talking out very short novels, only all the characters are also 'real,' not fictional, and can affect the life of the pub-owner.
Meta-fictional nonsense ensues, self-consciously, and conceptually it's interesting in a two page Borges story kind of way.
For people who read Ulysses and thought, "this is good and all, but is it Irish enough?"Maybe not as difficult as Joyce's masterpiece, but every bit as crazy.
"Afterwards, near Lad Lañe Pólice Station a small man in black fell in with us and tapping me often about the chest, talked to me earnestly on the subject of Rousseau, a member of the French nation.
Kelly then made a low noise and opened his mouth and covered the small man from shoulder to knee with a coating of unpleasant buff-coloured puke.
He is a little man that the namc of Rousseau will always recall to me" ...and now, for me, Rosseau will always be associated with unpleasant buff coloured puke.
An excerpted pome that I would like to share:When things go wrong and will not come right,Though you do the best you can,When life looks black as the hour of night -A PINT OF PLAIN IS YOUR ONLY MAN.When money's tight and hard to getAnd your horse has also ran,When all you have is a heap of debt -A PINT OF PLAIN IS YOUR ONLY MAN.When health is bad and your heart feels strange,And your face is pale and wan,When doctors say you need a change,A PINT OF PLAIN IS YOUR ONLY MAN.When food is scarce and your larder bareAnd no rashers grease your pan,When hunger grows as your meals are rare -A PINT OF PLAIN IS YOUR ONLY MAN.In time of trouble and lousy strife,You have still got a darlint planYou still can turn to a brighter life -A PINT OF PLAIN IS YOUR ONLY MAN.This is a quirky book filled with sharp wit and creativity.
Her ne kadar kitap içinde kitap şeklinde ilerlese de bu karmaşa sizi yanıltmasın, her şeyin kitapta bir yeri var.Bizzat “anlatı”yı ve “bir kitabın nasıl ortaya çıktığı”nı konu eden böylesine iyi yazılmış bir eseri sizler okumadan önce fazla ölçüyü kaçırmadan iki ipucu vermek istiyorum:1)	Kitabı okurken hangi karakteri kimin yarattığına dikkat edin: Örneğin, Brian O’Nolan, Flann O’Brien’i yarattı; Flann O’Brien, “Ağaca Tüneyen Sweeny”nin anlatıcısını yarattı; Anlatıcı, Trellis’i yarattı; Trellis, Furiskey’yi yarattı…2)	 Hangi anlatı seviyesinde olduğunuza, anlatıcının kim olduğuna dikkat edin; örneğin kitabın anlatıcısının hatıralarını, anlatıcının yazdığı kitaptan bölümleri veya bu kitabın içindeki kitabın kahramanlarının anlattığı bir hikâyeyi okuyor olabilirsiniz.Eser, aralarında ilgi kurabilmek için uzun metinler kopyalamak ihtiyacı doğurduğundan alıntı yazmaya pek müsait değil ama bir fikir vermesi bakımından en uygun kısımları alıntılamaya çalıştım:“Adınızı belirtin.” dedi Pooka.“Tracy, William James”“Sanıkla tanışıyor musunuz?”“Evet profesyonel olarak.”(…) “Sanıkla ilişkinizi açıklayın.”“Yaklaşık yirmi sene önce bana geldi ve hizmetçi takımından bir kadın karakterin lazım olduğu bir eser yazmakta olduğunu söyledi.
Guinness St. James's Gate Brewery, DublinO preguiçoso narrador com “… uma predisposição para a vida contemplativa.”, recém iniciado no consumo de bebidas alcoólicas e “aspirante” a escritor está a escrever um romance - “Reflecti sobre as minhas actividades literárias dos tempos livres.
9) “Uma Caneca de Tinta Irlandesa” é um romance verdadeiramente original e absorvente – “um romance-dentro-de-um-romance-dentro-de-um-romance- com personagens que se vão revoltando contra o seu criador/escritor, lutando pela supremacia e pelo controle da narrativa ou das várias narrativas, criando e alterando as diferentes tramas, dominando o ritmo e o suspense.
Y esto sigue, porque a su vez los personajes creados por Trellis tienen vida propia y cuentan sus propias historias, atacan a su autor y saltan entre novelas.La mayor parte de ‘En Nadar-dos-pájaros’ está basada en Buile Suibhne, una antigua leyenda gaélica del siglo IX, de donde proviene tan extraño título.
Mediante el humor, la sátira y la ironía de sus personajes, O’Brien arremete contra la religión, la política y las tradiciones irlandesas, y sobre todo contra los cimientos de la novela propiamente dicha, como hizo en su día Joyce.La historia es original, imaginativa y talentosa, pero no me ha gustado tanto como 'El Tercer Policía', una absoluta obra maestra, y 'Crónica de Dalkey'.
Bambaşka bir kültüre ait, bambaşka bir zamandan kopup gelen bir kitap Ağaca Tüneyen Sweeny. Hakkında yorum yapmanın zor olduğu, istesek de aşamayacağımız mesafelerle varolan kitaplardan. O yüzden herkesin el üstünde tuttuğu böylesi bir kitap hakkında konuşmak konusunda çekimserim. Fakat naçizane, ben bir "başyapıtla" karşılaşmadım. Okuyucu olmanın öznelliğine sığınarak rahatlıkla söylemek gerekirse: Beklediğimi bulamadım.
Flann O’Brien take the English language on a careening pub crawl. Hilarity ensues.
I don't know how to adequately review this book.
It's beyond strange.Basically the story of a student who would rather sleep and drink than go to class (who wouldn't, right?) who writes a story about a writer who is writing a story.
The characters of the fictional writer turn against him and start to live their lives on their own.
Sounds like a good premise, right?
There are supposedly Irish myths and stories throughout this book.
I liked the writing and would read another of Flann O'Brien's stories, will even reread this one one day (but probably not soon).
A story within a novel-in-progress within a frame narrative compounded with an interlocking series of jests.
As in a true palimpsest, the cast of characters in ASTB includes several mythical characters (mad king Sweney, who is transformed into a type of bird, a goblin called the Pooka Fergus McPhellimey, the Good Fairy) as well as characters from other books, real or imagined, among which are westerns, nautical poems, etc.Despite the fact that the book has a complicated frame within a frame-story structure yeilds a very strange matrioshka-type novel, the tone is comical throughout and one is left to wonder how such an irreverent, deliberately funny story can manage to accomplish such an ambitious structure.
enfim, porque não dizer que é um livro sobre cerveja e literatura?
Uma das personagens é um escritor cuja obra é sabotada pelas suas personagens, que escrevem o julgamento do seu criador.
A perspectiva com que interliga vários universos, espalhando-os uns pelos outros, funciona por força da sua técnica literária, que sugere a cerveja (ou excesso da mesma) como motivo da confusão.
Ainda assim, o carácter demasiado intelectual do livro pode afastar alguns leitores.Do mais singular que já li, merece ser lido com alguma atenção - por várias vezes tive de voltar atrás para apanhar o fio à meada - de tão rico que é.
The unnamed narrator, a dissolute university student badly neglecting his studies, explains to his friends-in-drink, with countless diversions, the novel he is writing about Mr. Delmot Trellis, a slothful and dissolute inhabitant of an inn, who in turn is writing a novel about a character, inter alia, who is born middle-aged.
Our primary narrator describes, among other information, his theory of writing novels, including his conviction that characters need not be developed de novo but should be taken from other novels, rather like available stock, to save the need of constructing them from scratch, the trick being to control them so that they do not go off on their own.
Okay, I was supposed to read this mother in grad school, but I was too busy: drinking or playing basketball or eating lunch with Chad or working out or trying to sleep with one of my classmates/students/neighbors or the vaguely French-looking chick at Al's that played rad songs on the jukebox.
Here's the deal, I read it today.
I see that I haven't written much about the book but seem to write about myself with ease, huh.
Thomas writes, "This is just the book to give your little sister if she's a loud, dirty, boozy girl!" Nuff said.
