https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76957.The_Mystery_of_Cabin_Island
Another thrilling adventure for Frank and Joe with the friends Biff and Chet! This time they are using an iceboat (being a Southerner, I didn't even know they existed) and camping in a cabin on Cabin Island with two mysteries to solve. They have to fight off some rowdy no-gooders in Ike and Nash and a pretty insistent bad guy Hanleigh as well as ghosts and ferocious snowstorms! So far, one of my son and I'd favorite Hardy Boy stories full of twists and excitement and Chet's pancakes! Loved it :)
As they are sailing along they find Cabin Island and decide to stop and see the place.
It is supposed to be deserted, but when they get off the boat they find foot prints in the snow, and as they begin to explore the island a stranger tells them to leave.
The mystery begins.Note: You know what those boys need to have?
Roasted hot dogs, hot chocolate, and roasted marshmallows.
Make a campfire in a safe place.
Place a hot dog on it and roast it over the fire, turning it when needed.
As for hot chocolate: Boil water on a campfire, and then pour a packet of cocoa powder in each cup.Note: Copyright: 1929
I enjoyed “The Mystery Of Cabin Island”, 1929, very much but gave three stars because, as a voracious reader, I'm conscious of contrived action.
One asks why the Hardy Boys didn't travel with the police in their pocket, for the number of guilty characters and burglaries they confronted and near vehicular misses: on the road, in the water, and now on the ice.
They always had professional equipment at their fingertips.This is one of the special stories, with substance in the details of the mystery, of a personal nature.
I loved this book - and a lot of the reason was that I was lucky enough to read the 1929 version.
Lots of differences - the first being that Frank and Joe are age 16 and 15 respectively in the older books, instead of the 18 / 17 age they are in newer reprints.The mystery is simple and honestly this book is more a wintertime camping adventure, which I enjoyed too.
Overall, I'd really like to track down more of the original books.
If you're a Hardy Boys fan, do try them in the older versions.
and a fun mystery besides!
I've been reading a bunch of these early Hardy Boys books lately. I've got to say, this was the first one where I wanted to call Child Protective Services on their parents. "Sure, go camping on a secluded island in the middle of winter where one child has already gone missing. What could go wrong?"No fun names in this one but there are:- Ghosts!- Fat Shaming!- Casual racism!- Code breaking!- Ice boats! Ice Boats! ICE BOATS!
I'd suggest it to kids who like this kind of thing, but I don't suggest it to anyone who has experience with reality.It doesn't deserve three stars, but it's getting them anyway because, like I said, I did enjoy reading it.Original review, 11/29/16 (1929 version and a bunch of other BS):This was my first adventure with the Hardy Boys, but first a side story.
Thank you, sir.Review of this book starts here:The Mystery of Cabin Island also showed up on several "best of the Hardy Boys" lists, and it took place at Christmastime, so that was good enough for me to kick off my annual Christmas reading.
3.5 stars
Didn't like this one as much as the other Hardy Boys mystery I read. It was just really hard to follow the story and I don't know why. :/ I did love the one character's obsession with food and eating...and his hiding those sandwiches for a "midnight snack" (but then he ended up sharing when the rest of their food was stolen) -- hilarious!
One of the best Hardy Boys Books! Great book for Christmas! Lots of adventure for all mystery lovers.
This one was great fun-and now I have a strange desire to go ice sailing!
I think this is a fun wintery book for everyone and anyone to read!
It is Christmas time, and the boys are out for Christmas break and have been given permission to stay at a private island owned by Mr. Jefferson.
While the boys and their friends head out to Cabin Island for the break they are looking for a lost medal collection of Mr. Jefferson's, as well as for his missing grandson Johnny Jefferson.
And from there these boys try their hardest to resolve this mystery for Mr. Jefferson.
The Mystery of Cabin Island was a great book, that I really enjoyed.
I have no idea what I just listened to XD Honestly, I don't know.
Only read this (well listened on audio) for the Hunger Games challenge, so yeah no clue :p I liked that (view spoiler)[they always wanted to do the right thing, and that they weren't all perfect.
They weren't scared of nothing.
(hide spoiler)] One thing I didn't like was how (view spoiler)[they acted a little uppity at times.
(hide spoiler)] I like how even though this one's #8 it still made sense.
I didn't know much about the characters, but I still didn't feel too out of my depth.
I read the Hardy Boys books (and Nancy Drew) when I was a child. The stories are old fashioned, but that's why I like them so much.
Really intense and was really a mystery I'm gonna stick with this seriesReally good my name is bunn Bob hook look noon diem dude many. good have toot root foot are is
Chet sees a ghost walking through the woods, as well Mr. Hanleigh and the two high school dropouts are seen sneaking around the island, apparently searching for something.After a series of collisions and near misses with the Sea Gull, the Hardys learn that Mr. Hanleigh is the nephew of a former servant of Mr. Jefferson and he is looking for something hidden in the fireplace.
Normally I wouldn’t include books I read to my kids on my goodreads, but a) technically we listened to it on audible instead of me reading, and b) I don’t think I had ever actually read a Hardy Boys.
I wouldn’t be like “have fun camping and just don’t get killed!” BUT kids need a world where they are in charge.
I haven’t read much modern middle grade books.
Or if there is still an imagined world where kids are in charge, even doing ridiculous things like capturing criminals.
I liked this one better than the other Hardy Boys we listened too.
Frank and Joe, along with Chet and Biff, spend Christmas vacation on an island with a cabin on it.
The island, known as Cabin Island, is owned by a Mr. Jefferson.
I bet you are thinking Cabin Island probably figures into this somehow.
If that is what you were thinking, you were right!It looked like it was going to be a concussion-free adventure for the Hardy's, but then at the last minute Joe got whack on the noggin from behind.
On a side note, Mr. Jefferson get a concussion when the Hardy's ice boat gets flipped as the result of an attack by the bad guy.
I read a first-edition version of this book, and the cover is slightly different from what appears here, but this was the closest I could find on Goodreads.The Mystery of Cabin Island is much like the previous seven Hardy Boys volumes, with some cool adventures, but this is the first one set in winter, which I, being from Maine, really appreciate (Maine is even mentioned once, toward the end, and that always excites me). I especially liked the scenes set in the cabin at night during a snowstorm—kinda gave me a sense of suspenseful coziness I really enjoy.
Another fun mystery, with lots of inclement weather, ice boat attacks and Chet’s excellent cooking! The boys encounter a trespasser on Mr. Jefferson’s island and they get all fist-a-cuffs, but never use unnecessary force. An Arab named Yussef is running around in the snow, a con-man is running an international scam, and the Hardys crack the case again!
Adorable. I read all the Nancy Drew's when I was younger and only picked up this Hardy Boys because I was on vacation and I forgot to bring a book and this was in the house. It was suspenseful and gave a sense of adventure for the youngsters just like I remember Nancy Drew. It was a hark back to my childhood and I now may have to read some more of the the Hardy's adventures.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
If you're a fan of claustrophobic winter thrillers where no one gets murdered, but where ice boats are slightly damaged and groceries are scattered, you will enjoy this book.This installment in the Hardy saga spends most of its time describing Frank, Joe, Chet, their other friend (not the Italian with the boat, the other guy—Biff?
He can't be blamed later though when the rich old man's nephew decides to dress up in his own robe for...some reason, and hangs outside the cabin, watching the chimney...while the Hardys watch him.
I love island mysteries! This one has a ton of stuff I love, the prowlers, the warnings, the suspense. Good story.
One of my child's favorites.
A marvelous mystery for the student who likes adventure, but does not like to read.
Frank and Joe solve a double mystery, and do some daring ice-sailing along the way!
Love reading the Hardy's with my son
Shocking how an adult villain is not threatening. Not quite human nature.
Yeah it was all right . It was clean . None annoying . Id do it again .
