https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35606560-the-sun-and-her-flowers

*Thank you so much to Indigo for surprising me with a copy of this!*I never read Milk & Honey.
It just seemed like such a fad thing, I had no interest in it.
I didn't love the whole thing, but there were some poems that I really loved.
The poetic style is quite simplistic and some quotes I felt like were reworded versions of things I've seen before.
But, I liked the fact that this collection dealt with femininity, immigration, and self love.
The topics were well developed and the poems were short, but packed a punch.
Not sure if I'll now pick up Milk & Honey.
Rupi, you have my heart ❤ beautifully written and ohhh the art :‘)
Rupi, you have my heart ❤️ beautifully written and ohhh the art :‘)
“I hear a thousand kind words about me and it makes no difference yet I hear one insult and all confidence shatters - focusing on the negative.”I've never related to written words as much as reading Rupi Kaur's books.
I love Rupi Kaur.
This review was brought to you by the best Real Housewives gifs on giphy.com.Let me start off by saying that I am not a fan of Rupi Kaur's milk and honey; HOWEVER, being the forgiving person that I am, I have decided to give her work a second chance.Warning: The gifs you are about to see are real reactions to the poems I just read.Alrighty, here we go:i live for that first second in the morningwhen i am still half-consciousi hear the hummingbirds outsideflirting with the flowersi hear the flowers gigglingand the bees growing jealouswhen I turn over to wake youit starts all over againthe pantingthe wailingthe shockof realizingthat you've left- the first morning without youJust adding my unwanted two cents and personal preference here, but I would have been good had she stopped after 'and the bees growing jealous'.
god must have kneaded you and ifrom the same doughrolled us out on the baking sheetmust have suddenly realizedhow unfair it wasto put that much magic in one personand sadly split that dough in twohow else is it thatwhen i look in the mirrori am looking at youwhen you breathemy own lungs fill with airthat we just met but wehave known each other our whole livesif we were not made as one to begin withour souls are mirrors - rupi kaurFind more of my books on Instagram
Beautiful...
The range of emotions are all felt ...
sadness, anger, loss, grief, pride, guilt, fear, nervousness, shame, joy, surprise, love ....These stories/ poems are heartfelt...
rupi kaur is a lovely gift to the world.
“for so long i was lost in a place where there was no sun, where there grew no flowers.
but something i loved would emerge and bring me to life again”.
I love “Milk and Honey”...
and I equally love “the sun and her flowers”.
rupi kaur writes about sensitive topics with piercing imagination.
This long-awaited second collection of poetry by Rupi Kaur made waves; it was a ride brimming with of every kind of emotion imaginable.
Divided into five chapters and illustrated by Kaur, the sun and her flowers is a vibrant and transcendent journey about growth and healing.
We have poems exploring self-love, self-hate, body-image, girls supporting girls, motherly love, feminism, insecurity, sexual assault, and so much more.
I'll never grow tired of reading Kaur's passionate words.
The Sun and Her Flowers, just click on the image below to go through my link.
there are very few short poems (unlike m&h), which i was thankful for, because in m&h it seemed like she would just write sentences with skips in it, then label them poetry, and i really hated that style.
She had some longer poems unlike anything she had in m&h, but most of those just employed really long-winded run-on sentences and I wasn’t a huge fan of that style.
If you gave up hope after milk & honey, definitely think about trying this from a library or something because it is a MAJOR improvement and I think its messages are valuable, and nothing about this feels like a regurgitation of a Tumblr post.
But I just liked how the words fit together in this collection.
And I totally understand why this author is loved and famous!+ THINGS TO KNOW ABOUT THIS COLLECTION:• it's all about loss and growing and heartache and self-love• it's so powerful• so so feminist• there's a lot of dark themes here too• it talks a lot about depression and rape• it talks about immigration and representation• and there's a lot of sex• and a lot of flowers• and SUCH good but simple illustrations• honestly why aren't all books illustrated I would like thisOK so why not rate it higher?!
I want to thank  Jon(athan) Nakapalau for recommending this poetry collection to me. I have never read something similar before. The only part that I did not enjoy was the first one. In general, it was a nice experience, and I will probably read her other collection too.
i startedto read this hoping toenjoy it more than Milk and Honey butinstead i found it derivativei also question whetherrandombreaks insentences andno punctuation is equal topoetrySome parts of this, like the things she wishes she could have told her mother on her wedding day and insights on immigration were thought provoking, but much of this felt like thoughts I’ve read many times elsewhere. Here are three examples of that:you do not just wake up and become the butterflythe right one does not
i started to read this hoping to enjoy it more than Milk and Honey but instead i found it derivative i also question whether random breaks in sentences and no punctuation is equal to poetry  Some parts of this, like the things she wishes she could have told her mother on her wedding day and insights on immigration were thought provoking, but much of this felt like thoughts I’ve read many times elsewhere.
Also, the amount of time it took me to correct the computer and remove punctuation and add breaks in sentences was frustrating...
her 2nd book and still she has no grasp of poetic language. she writes aphorisms that people like because they're relateable, but they are intellectually and emotionally insincere. an excellent businesswoman but a terrible writer. I would suggest rupi actually sit down and read some poetry once in a while, but I doubt she'd bother with that. her illustrations are alright though.
I mean, there's a reason why there's a surge in poetry books being sold now.
I love what she advocates in her poetry collections, what she stands for.
Following on from her previous collection (not that it is a sequel, but the format and themes are similar), the sun and her flowers is tackling the root of our own emotions and suffering, to taking it in and accepting the people around us, our ancestors and our heritage, our immigrant parents, to ultimately establishing self-love.
I feel like it's a mantra in her poetry and I love that.
A good reader finishes a book before criticising it, but a good writer knows a book is trash a few pages in.
i amstill not a fan of peoplewho use random linebreaks in otherwisesimple phrases andthink it'ssomehowgroundbreakingI don't get it.I feel like a total ass for hating this book because she covers some very personal and traumatic topics, but to me it just reads like she's trying too hard to be profound because everyone lost their shit over her first book (which I didn't particularly like either, because it was basically a tumblr dashboard), so it was like she had to outdo herself.
The bad far outweighs the good.I mean, I guess I can give her props for expanding beyond the tumblr one-liners, but even her longer poems I didn't like.
Heart breaking yet empowering - a woman's journey of growth - (wilting, falling, rooting, rising, and blooming) as she comes to terms with her past, present and future. As a man this book touched me because I never was aware of all the different ways we try to make women conform to 'our' idea of what they should be. If you have a friend trying to put their life back together after a break up this book will help them focus on the path they need to take.
Am I reading this book bc my reading challenge is getting a little out of control??? Psshshhhhh no, of course not why would you think something so preposterous ????Anyways so I read Milk and Honey last year and I sorta loved it and when I HEARD there was another one I was like yes this woman can write gimme some moreAnd that’s what this book isBut its better than milk and honey imo why is it that when the story endswe begin to feel all of it  the illustrations are ABSOLUTELY perfection, I love t
Psshshhhhh no, of course not why would you think something so preposterous ????Anyways so I read Milk and Honey last year and I sorta loved it and when I HEARD there was another one I was like yes this woman can write gimme some moreAnd that’s what this book isBut its better than milk and honey imo
Love and acceptance and liberty and compassion, I think the author covered a whole lot of topics and translated them into such beautiful, beautiful, beautiful words like wow give me that talent lady where did you get it from
Just like a really inspiring, uplifting poem book that you can finish in 20 minutes do it for the challenge.
Enjoyed this a lot. A few pieces really stood out to me, especially on the topic of being a WOC and immigration. Liked this more than MILK AND HONEY.
5 wilting. falling. rooting. rising. and blooming.  STARS   Me dio mas de lo que esperaba, más positivo, y sensible. No tan crudo como Honey and Milk, pero especial y hermoso. Una de las cosas que me fastidian de la poesía, es que la mayoría trate de enamorarse y corazones rotos. Y no quiero decir que en este libro no tengamos poemas sobre el amor y lo difícil que es sobrellevar una relación romántica, pero con el estilo único de Rupi, si me terminaron gustando.   "i learned everything is tempo
El libro está separado en 5 diferentes temas, mi favorito fue rooting, creo que es el más intenso, toca el tema de los refugiados, la inmigración con el que me sentí muy identificada.Los poemas más vehementes fueron todos donde nos habla de su madre, algunos son de esperanza, anhelo, inclusive hay uno sobre como ella daría su vida con tal de cambiar lo que su madre tuvo que vivir.El poema más triste fue el de feminicidio de bebes, fue completamente shokeante porque nos gusta pensar que esto no pasa cerca de nosotros, que este tipo de cosas tan horribles pasan en pueblos lejanos, pero cuando dice que esto pasa aquí en la ciudad donde vivo, a mujeres con las que me cruzo en la calle, no pude evitar derramar varias lágrimas.En conclusión: Si eres una mujer de color, seguro encontraras al menos un poema con el que te sentirás completamente identificada, y si eres cualquier otra persona te recomiendo muchísimo más que lo leas, ya que te permitirá ver lo que una mujer que ha pasado por este tipo de situaciones siente y quizá logres ver la vida y el mundo en general desde otra perspectiva.
Beautiful book. Loved that there were longer pieces in this one and that the book was thicker in general. Wonderful illustrations as always though I have to say that since she has used drawings that were quite similar to some in her first book, I kinda got confused and thought for a moment that she has reused some of her old poems too. (I hope I make sense). Definitely gonna keep this book on my nightstand 😊⭐️
Rupi Kaur has again delivered a palpable collection of perspective on varying issues of significance that range from love to heartbreak and all the things in between.
I leave this experience feeling grateful, beautiful, and incredibly empowered.
I am in love with this woman's writing.Note: There are a few repeated poems from Milk and Honey but much of this material felt very fresh.
My favorite quote: One of my many favorite poems:i reduced my body to aestheticsforgot the work it did to keep me alivewith every beat and breathdeclared it a grand failure for not looking like theirssearched everywhere for a miraclefoolish enough to not realizei was already living in one
“You’re everywhere Except right here And it hurts.”

As a big fan of poetry I love to find new poets who inspire me and make me question my own view of the World.
I enjoy reading poems that are hard hitting and don't shy away from the brutality of the World today.
Rupi's poems in this her second book are written with love and from the heart.
I love Rupi's style of poetry.
Rupi has the ability to pack a hearty punch even when she is only writing a short poem.
Reading this book makes you appreciate life.
Rupi isn't afraid to open her heart to the world.
it isn't what we left behind that breaks me it's what we could've built had we stayed.Grief, self abandoment, the bond between a child and her parents, girl power, and respecting the generations that came before are all themes of the second collection of poetry by Rupi Kaur. Recently I read the poet's debut collection Milk and Honey and I became spell bound by her writing. this place makes me  the kind of exhausted that has  nothing to do with sleepand everything to do withthe people around me. introvert
4.25 STARS!!!! “I hear a thousand kind words about me and it makes no difference yet I hear one insult and all confidence shatters - focusing on the negative." This quote was like a punch in a gut. I felt guilt, shame, and realization when I read it because honestly, I am like that. Rupi Kaur did it again. Her brutally honest poems stirred up something inside me. A year ago, I read milk and honey and I was quite surprised of how personal, vulgar and relatable it was. But this book? I personally
Her brutally honest poems stirred up something inside me.
A year ago, I read milk and honey and I was quite surprised of how personal, vulgar and relatable it was.
I personally think it is better.
PERSONAL DEMONS.
I admire how straight- forward she is, with every word she uses; it was so moving and gut wrenching.
Her writing is commendable because of how true, vulnerable, fragile, frank, and relatable it is.
I personally think that the author wants the readers to conjure what the drawings mean.I'm excited for her next work, Rupi Kaur is one my favorite poet.
reread - 4.5 stars ------------------------  4.25 stars  Oh. my. God. I enjoyed this way more than Milk and Honey, I loved the writing, the illustrations and the messages in this collection. From heartbreak, to rape, to immigration, to police brutality, this was excellent.
The Sun and Her Flowers is my anticipated poetry book this year by the one and only Rupi Kaur.
and my personal favorite is about self-love.
Here are my favorites in this collection:we need more lovenot from menbut ourselvesand each other- medicine-------------------------------------you are a mirrorif you continue to starve yourself of loveyou'll only meet people who'll starve you tooif you soak yourself in lovethe universe will hand you thosewho'll love you too- a simple math-------------------------------------it felt like you threw meso far from myselfi've been trying to find my way back ever since-------------------------------------.....let's find our own sun.
I love it.
