https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/179631.Complete_Poems
Her poetry is unusual and it’s very hard to understand because of the multiple voices she uses and constant quotation that runs through the work.
It’s very difficult to discern an overall direction of her poems because more often than not, the longer pieces, present opposing opinions.
It’s almost like the poetry is in conversation with itself, demonstrating different point of views on a particular topic without giving any of them any particular weight or prominence.
It’s almost like Imagist poetry but with conversational elements.
And she didn’t really consider herself worthy of being called a poet.
Attaching astute observations to images cutting in their precision, Marianne Moore's poems exhibit an impressive display of scientific, social, and cultural knowledge. The poet's work seems less interested in eliciting emotion than in stimulating the intellect; neither her poetry's painstakingly unnatural rhythms nor its abundance of citations fosters much feeling. Aloof as Moore's style might be, the sheer strangeness of each of her poems forces readers to approach a particular subject from new and unexpected angles.
It'd be great - we'd sit around drinking tea and talking about art, and then she'd be like, "Hey, do you want to hear about squids?" And then she would tell me all about squids and then share the poem she wrote about them, and it would be lovely.
And then she wrote this one, which I also love: "I May, I Might, I MustIf you will tell me why the fenappears impassable, I thenwill tell you why I think that I can get across it if I try." Marianne Moore, you are a cool lady.
She tends to frustrate when writing about more (to my mind) quotidian subjects, especially when her aim seems to be straightforward appreciation or praise.
Her poetry-prose is never self-aggrandizing ('Poetry / I, too, dislike it') but her words are chosen with such care that she seems less a poet and more a sculptor with words ('Twisted torcs and gold new-moon-shaped / lunulae aren't jewelry / like the purple-coral fuchsia-tree's.').This isn't really a Collected Marianne Moore.
True to my sense of her impeccable propriety, she removed poems and prefixed the collection with 'Omissions are not accidents'.
I read this collection back in 2004, and liked it at the time; I was also engaged enough and challenged enough by the poems to take 12 pages of handwritten notes on them, analyzing meanings (actually more than 12 pages --the last one breaks off in mid-sentence and a 13th page is missing, misplaced somehow.) I consider Moore a talented poetess.
But when I purposed to write a retrospective review of it last night, I realized that, even with my notes and the book in front of me, I couldn't recall any of the poems; the impression they made didn't last.
This is great, these poems are great.
Moore was simultaneously ahead of her time, completely of her time, and rooted in the most classic sensibilities of poetry.
She has a beautiful and massive vocabulary and she left me in the dust with it many times (in a very pleasant way).I want to say that her poems are basically like children's poems for adults, they are generally very simple in theme or topic, very playful in their language, and remarkably imaginative.
Many of them are about animals, and have lots of taxonomic details.
She mentions double rainbows in one.
Of the Modernist poets I find Moore the most approachable (which in a way makes her a terribly unconventional Modernist). Her later work is more sparse, but still full of the allusions and wit (and nature) and cadence that are her hallmarks. Thoroughly enjoyable.
I read through much of this collection alongside a biography of Moore, Holding on Upside Down by Linda Leavell, which I have also reviewed.
https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Leavell makes clear that Marianne Moore achieved great critical skill long before she found her voice as a mature poet.
Similarly, Moore became an advocate of the younger poet, Elizabeth Bishop, and recommended her to influential critics and a publisher, at a time when Bishop had yet to put pen to paper and actually write poems.
With the help of Leavell's biography, I have now penetrated far beyond the stage at which it seems a difficult thing to read Moore's poems.
Thoroughly read and thoroughly enjoyed; an excellent way to while away National Poetry Month!
I had already determined that Marianne Moore would be the favorite poet of a character in my novel-in-progress, so I read this for research in addition to edification.
Moore's exquisite poem "What Are Years" is an integral fit for the themes of Grandpa Art.WHAT ARE YEARS What is our innocence,what is our guilt?
All are naked, none is safe.
And whenceis courage: the unanswered question,the resolute doubt – dumbly calling, deafly listening – thatis misfortune, even death,	encourages others	and in its defeat, stirs the soul to be strong?
Okay so I read this book for school and let me tell you Marianne Moore is tough!!!
Many many times you stop and think, 'What in the hell is she even talking about?!' But then you start digging and her poems become something really really cool.
She believed that it was honorable to search and study for meaning and in a way you kinda feel like a knight finally finding the Holy Grail when you finally dissect her poems!
If you feel like you would really like a read that will cause your brain to explode then I would gladly suggest picking up a copy of The Complete Poems of Marianne Moore.
Whitman's invitation is not to be resisted. Later. Marianne Moore wrote the liner notes for Muhammad Ali's 1963 album of raps, I Am The Greatest! Turns out this edition is the 1850 Prelude of Modernism, known for senescent omissions and revisions; but I'm too lazy to look for another.
I understand a lot of people's criticisms of Moore. I do. The poems can seem "cold" in some way, surely, but these poems are like old fashioned clocks or Rolex watches: precisely made, all their gears and cogs meticulously timed, so that they always work, always catch our eye. These are an artisan's poems, and are truly fine tuned.
3 1/2 stars
I would like a suit of qiviut, so light I did not know I had it on; and in the course of time, another since I had not had to murder the “goat” that grew the fleece that made the first.
azzurro-negro: blue-black vivorosso: lively con dizionario: with dictionary savio ucello: knowing bird botto e totto: vow and motto io giuro: I swear è questo credo: is this credo lucro è peso morto: profit is a dead weight gioièllo mio: my jewel a bel bosco: to lovely woods tuttuto vagabondo: complete gypsy serafino uvaceo: grape-black seraph sunto: in short verecondo: modest))))
In the poem "Poetry" Marianne Moore writes: "[...] we do not admire what we cannot understand: [...]".Thank you for this experience, Marianne.
Not my cup of tea, although I can understand that her poems are loved by many, they didn't cut it for me
She uses lots of (unattributed) quotes; takes a sort of sidelong glance at things, be they animals, objects, people or events; refers a lot to animals, especially more exotic ones; and breaks lines somewhat oddly for emphasis and play; amongst other issues.I got about 90% of the way through this--constantly wondering who was being quoted or what was being alluded to--before I realized that there are notes to the poems in the back; approx.
But what I truly feel stupid about--not the not expecting there to be notes on the poems, as how often does that happen?--but that a few months before I began this I came across a citation to this book regarding a child's drawing that had influenced one of the poems.
At one time, Moore was one of the US's best-known poets - now she is largely forgotten.
I read this book on the basis of the magnificent "The Steeplejack", a poem of Moore's which I read in an anthology and instantly made me hungry to hear more.
Unfortuately, as is often the case, the best work was anthologised; "The Steeplejack" stands head and shoulders above most of Moore's work.
There is also a combination of free verse with rhyme.
Rhyme with fixed metre, fine; completely free verse, fine.
UIL Literary Criticism selection for 11-12.
Just reading selections (about 20) but half-digging them so far.Update 5/8/12: Moore frustrated the hell out of me for a while.
It still feels like a lot of work for frustratingly little gain.
I dug around in critical materials and confirmed my suspicious: that some of the poems are simply impenetrable--hard-edged cliffs for you to bash your head against.
Often I'm intrigued by such opacity (Stein leaps to mind), but here it feels more more personal, feels more like ol' Marianne's just playing keep-away with meaning out of pettiness.
Utterly unique and, how often do you hear this to describe a poet, funny.
With some of the more abstruse poets I find I move on.
Not with Moore, rather I want to know what is going on and keep going back to unlock these mischievous mechanisms of language and meaning.
As far as I am familiar with the poetry she's also the rare first generation modern who is clearly enraptured by the natural world.
Ultimately it is the delight of witnessing the world.
Yet her language is clear and precise.
How she can fuse such a craft like approach to language with such beauty is what makes her so fascinating.
My saying I "read" this may be a bit misleading--I had only gotten part-way through the collection (and not reading each and every poem, but going piecemeal throughout, as would be the likely case when perusing a poetry anthology)--but I really like most of them.
Reading it, however, with a perfect contempt for it, one dis- covers in it, after all, a place for the genuine."(I hope the spacing comes through in GoodReads as it does in the printed book--unusual margins and spaces, as though Moore is as enamored of the blank spaces around words as she is with the words themselves).
Reread sept 14 2013 not much to add to the notes from 2008, except that i'm fascinated and confused by her sense of line.
clearly i'm not ready for what she's throwing out.---i'm conflicted about marianne moore.
i love her aesthetic.
i love her subject matter.
sometimes i feel like her writing is very remote, though.
when i read a small selection of her poems, i love the way she uses quotes.
when i read large chunks of her poems, i get peeved by the quotes.
her short poems are usually too flip for me, and not in an ogden nash way.
Moore is pretty eccentric and that's a good thing.
She has two major unique traits: the focus on animal poems, which are not romanticized at all really, and her forms which always use meter, rhyme, and indentation in specific patterns for each poem.
I.e., one poem might have seven line stanzas in an AABCDBD rhyme scheme, a 7-13-7-5-5-12-11 syllable scheme, with the third line indented once, the fourth line indented twice, and the seventh line indented once.
Obviously I made that up but it's more or less what they all seem to be: totally random, which on the one hand makes for some interesting styles, and on the other almost always disassociates the form from the content, which is something I can't forgive.
Marianne Moore is fantastic--as years of criticism and reviews on websites like these attest--but if you really want to get into her you need the Grace Schulman edited The Poems of Marianne Moore.
Complete Poems is a good introduction to Moore and an interesting talking point, but lacks many good Moore things.
Schulman's volume restores the "unaccidental omissions," includes multiple versions of many poems, as well as Moore's notes, extra notes by Schulman, and a lovely introduction.
Moore and Schulman's parents were friends.
Her personal perspective on the poet's life and art is funny, touching, and not cheesey.
It is the shit.
She is not seeking order; she finds vitality in chaos.Her search for the authentic voice is constantly undercut by her own contradictions...
proving it impossible to be truly original.
And isn't this the very nature of life?Moore asks, if efforts to find an original voice are futile, why bother writing?
Just so, if efforts to be without sin are futile, why bother trying?
We can never fully succeed in our quest, but in reaching we can grasp at fossil traces, shadows, and mountain tops.I don't agree with everything Moore writes.
. . . Pangolins are not aggressive animals; betweendusk and day they have the not unchain-like machine-likeform and frictionless creep of a thingmade graceful by adversities, con-versities. To explaing race requiresa curious hand. If that which is at all were not forever,why would those who graced the spires with animals and gathered there to rest, on cold luxuriouslow stone seats--a monk and monk and monk--between the thusingenious roof-supports, have slaved to confusegrace with a kindly manner, time in which to pay a debt,the cure for sins, a graceful useof what are yetapproved stone mullions branching out acrossthe perpendiculars?
"I don't get you, Marianne Moore," is a thing I said to myself very often while reading this book.
She's a difficult poet to understand.
And yet old TS Eliot seems to think that poetry can communicate before it is understood, or something like that, and I think I like Moore very much indeed.
Literature is a phase of life.
If one is afraid of it,the situation is irremediable; if one approaches it familiarly,what one says of it is worthless.
I think that if I had been born sometime around 1890 and knew this woman, I think I would have been horribly in love with her.
This is one of those gems I found by happenstance. The first poem I flipped to caught the exact epiphany I had the week before, except that she was talking of buying pictures and I was thinking of....well, I can't remember now, but that often occurs because of my poor memory. Here are a few lines."When I Buy Picturesor what is closer to the truth,when I look at that of which I may regard myself as the imaginary possessor,I fixed upon what would give me pleasure in my average moments..."
Buried eight-fold in her eight/arms, for she is in/a sense a devil-/fish, her glass ram's shorn-cradled freight/is hid but is not crushed;/as Hercules, bitten//by a crab loyal to the hydra,/was hindered to succeed,/the intensively/watched eggs coming from/the shell free it when they are freed,--/leaving the wasp-nest flaws/of white on white, and close-//laid Ionic chiton-folds/like the lines in the mane of/a Parthenon horse,/round which the arms had/wound themselves as if they know love/ is the only fortress/strong enough to trust to.
At least with the Ezra Pound book I decided to give away, I could remember one poem, and it was a cool haiku-ish sort of thing, capturing a lot in just a few words. But the main thing I remember about good ol' Marianne from my Contemporary American Poetry course was that... I hated her poems. And ...she liked baseball. Or something like that. After many years of hanging on to you, MM, you're headed to the Salvation Army. Sorry.
