https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25541028-elon-musk
In Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future biographer Ashlee Vance gives us a picture of both the dreams and the man, peering back to where Musk began, describing his journey from then to now, looking at how he is impacting the world today, and gazing ahead to where he wants to go.
Yes I am still crushing on Elon Musk. I'm counting on him to deliver on his promise of building a city on Mars. The time has come for us to destroy yet another planet.
Or are Tesla and SpaceX successful in spite of this way of working—that it actually holds people back?Other than those questions, this is a very good overview of Musk's life and personality, and the trials and tribulations he went through to be successful—a path beset by an immense number of setbacks and late deliveries.What comes through clearly is how much of a genius this guy was.
3.5 StarsI like the can-do attitude Vance took with hounding Musk and wearing him down till he agreed to cooperate with this biography. I also appreciated all the "Holy crap, Musk is CRAZY. CRAZY like a fox," moments I had while reading this. The only thing that keeps this from being a 4-star book is that the reporting and writing leans too heavily on idolatry. There were passages where I literally cringed at how much of a fanboy Vance sounded like.
Aside from the clean energy technology which I am a huge proponent of, how an electric car can become one of the most desirable and good-looking cars in the world is another example of the visionary genius that Musk is.
The biography was also quite educational; while I still do not know how to build a rocket or an electric car now I've gained a better understanding of certain technical aspects of these items and how they work.Whether you're a fan of Musk, or just intrigued by his ideas and achievements, or even if you only just desired the Tesla badly, this is a recommended read.This review can also be found at Booknest
I also find that it is a very important book for anyone who is at least a little curious about our present and our future.In fact, I believe Ashlee Vance’s portrait of Elon Musk is a necessary read for anyone, because of the effect that his companies are having on the automotive, the clean energy, and the space industries.
He is an inspiration for many, and beyond Elon Musk, his companies and his vision are a huge inspiration.
Finally, I have a comment about "being a nerd": in the first part of the book, the kid Elon Musk is called a "nerd" about a million times.
Мъск беше сред тези супергерои на новото време, но 20-тина страници няма как да обхванат дори една микроскопична част от неговия ненормално як живот, дело и личност.
Апетайзърът беше превъзходен и крачката до основното блюдо се оказа неизбежна.Изключително съм щастлива, че биографията на Илън Мъск е на българския пазар, защото хора като него се раждат много рядко и е абсолютно задължително да бъдат познати на възможно най-широк кръг читатели.
Един от най-близките сътрудници на Мъск споделя в книгата, че той имал навика да ти отправя един интенизвен, леко налудничав поглед, след който абсолютно вярваш, че ей сега ще стъпим на Марс.
There are few people outside of the fiction world that I truly admire, but barring some unseen or future tragedy, I think Musk might well be on the way to becoming my hero.If I didn't know any better, I might be looking at all his stated claims and seeing all the echoes of Asimov and Heinlein being dragged out of the page and brought to life.Skip the whole Iron Man image for a second.Let's talk about Ayn Rand.Musk is John Galt.
:)Let's MAKE the future we wanted.
А, и да си малко смахнат.Илон Мъск вярва в разни неща.
Пак защото вярвал – че са по-ефективни, че с тях не се харчи гориво, което и без това един ден ще го няма и мамка му, тогава вече ще е малко късно да се чудим какво да правим.
Илон също така вярва и в други неща – като например пътуване на големи разстояния с огромна скорост във вакуумна тръба, „космически интернет“ и приятелски настроен изкуствен интелект, който не е способен да навреди на хората.
В едно го питат какво толкова има в него, че е успял на така много фронтове.
In this book Ashlee Vance explores Musk's various business ventures, and provides insight into the developer's character and personal life.
The book has few details about Errol's behavior (no one will talk about it), but it's revealing that grandpa Musk isn't allowed to meet Elon's five sons.
Vance also discusses the problems involved when private companies - like Musk's enterprises - compete with established (though inferior) businesses that have government support.
I'd recommend the book to readers interested in Elon Musk; his far-reaching business ventures; and the future of the planet.
In short I learned a lot about the progress of Elon's companies, but very little about what motivated him to start them or continue after making his first billion.
Isaacson was able to give us a real glimpse into Jobs's growth as a person and a real insight into Steve's thinking.
I think it falls on both fronts as Vance does a very skin deep overview of the technology that SpaceX and Tesla have pioneered and a lot of the jokey comments come off as non-sequitor.
Elon's companies are important enough to our future than any new information about him and his motivations is well worth a read.
“It’s nuts that people would want to vilify Elon. He might say some things that rub people the wrong way, but at some point, the being nice to everyone thing doesn’t work.“ Elon Musk is fascinating. I could simply tick off some biographical points such as him having been married twice and having five children with his first wife (a set of twins and a set of triplets), but that is not why I read biographies and, in fact, why I dislike most of them. Either the people the biographies are about are
Some might call this silly but great minds like Stephen Hawking agree(d) with Musk that it’s the only way humanity will have a future and we do need a champion that is driving us, giving us a chance at survival.
There are many who can influence consumers and create new trends, but Musk isn’t here for exploiting a moment and getting rich - he’s poured ALL of his money, time and time again, into his businesses when they were in trouble and went much farther than any „expert“ thought sane, just to reach his ultimate goal (a colony on Mars).
Can we have both?I've long been a fan of Musk; his name comes up quite a bit in my geeky circle and is always spoken with reverence: from Tesla, SpaceX, PayPal, Solar City, The Boring Company...
"He's just not a fun guy."He'd like to spend his final days on Mars and not come back: "If my wife and I had a bunch of kids, she would probably stay with them on Earth." (!!!)The retirement of our space shuttle has made us reliant on Russia, who (as of 2015), charge us $70 million per person for the trip to the International Space Station.Musk went to Russia multiple times, looking to buy rockets for SpaceX.
I’m super interested in Elon Musk and this book provided me insight into the way he thinks, what drives him, how he gets things done, etc.
After reading this book, it’s easy for me to forgive all of Musk’s interpersonal failures because I’m inspired by the things he dreams up, the way he pursues the “impossible” things, and the fact that he has found a purpose in life and doesn’t let things like money and celebrity distract him from that purpose.
As Musk says, "If something is important enough, even if the odds are against you, you should still do it."Strangely enough, I've followed Space X' and Tesla's progress for a very long time, but I never actually read many things about the person behind them.
His philanthropic vision though does not consist in giving his billions away, but in trying to make his businesses succeed in order to save humanity from itself, before the planet we live on collapses.
The best thing about the book is that it tells Elon Musk’s story simply and well.
Before reading this book, I just thought of him as a rich start-up dude who makes rocket ships and electric cars.
I wasn’t wrong about that but this book helped me see all behind the curtains and the struggles he had to overcome to get where he is.
When you look at today’s Tesla, you wouldn’t know they were nearly bankrupt in 2008 if it wasn’t for Musk.
The author did a good job researching his background.
A must read for everyone who is interested in start-ups, technology, space, innovation or this enigmatic individual.
It only took an individual or a group to persist through this period of ridicule and name calling to finally make these crazy notions come to life .Then there is this man : Elon Musk .His dreams of cheaper space travel, sustainable and clean energy and electric cars were laughed off as the dreams of just another batshit crazy Silicon Valley entrepreneur.
Elon founded one company, took over another and invested in a third all three of which were called epic fails by the industry pundits.
Even with an iPhone in hand, companies like HTC and Samsung took years to come close to a comparable design or user interface.
If you want to bring changes to the world, you need to start from yourself and people surrounding you then work from that gradually.
All in all, I appreciate the way he managed to reach self-sufficiency in Tesla and SpaceX (if I were an American I'd be thankful for the employment opportunity) where his other competitors have to rely on other countries..
Just use the SpaceX rockets to deploy them to the far reaches of the ocean surface.
Can you do that, Musk, since you said you want to save the world?
Whether you follow him or his companies/works, Elon Musk is an important innovator of our times, and I would suggest everyone to read this book to get inspired or experience another world.
If you read a little bit, you'll understand Musk is not the most easy going person in the world.
It was really interesting to read about how SpaceX, Tesla and all his other success stories started, how he jumped from one ambition to another, and how he runs his companies.
It's interesting, fascinating, very well captured inner world of this genius I truly admired even more than before I read this book.
At first, the idea of reading 380-page autobiography about a technology-savvy made me downhearted.
However, eventually I extremely relish this book that I cannot put it down.Takeaways:1.
There is nothing wrong about being an introvert and enjoying reading books.
You will find a lot of inspirations for your career.
Working hard is the only way that lead to success.
Thanks for his hard work, he contributes tremendously to our modern world.
Musk is the founder of SpaceX, co-founder of Zip 2, Paypal, Tesla and SolarCity.3.
SpaceX helps US government save a lot of money to lauch satellites, instead of relying on Russian providers.
U poslednje vreme, ime Ilona Maska postalo je sveprisutno u vestima.
Spomenuću najvažnije: SpaceX, privatna aeronautička kompanija koja šalje rakete u svemir, znatno povoljnije i efikasnije od svojih takmaca, Tesla automobili na električni pogon i Solarsiti, kompanija koja proizvodi električne panele.
I kao da sve to nije dovoljno, Ilon Mask često govori o slanju rakete na Mars i o njegovom kolonizovanju!
I tu leži značaj Ilona Maska: on je neko ko sprovodi svoje radikalne ideje u delo.
Ešli Vens povremeno idealizuje Maska, i pored njegovih očiglednih mana, uglavnom kada je u pitanju odnos sa drugim ljudima, ali zaista je teško odoleti kada pišete o njemu.
Que o autor do livro começou de um ponto relativamente cético e terminou defendendo o Elon Musk contra quase tudo fala muito sobre a figura que ele representa. Um livro que saiu em um ótimo momento, quando a Tesla Motors deu a volta por cima e os lançamentos da SpaceX passaram a dar certo. Ótimo pra entender como o Musk é parecido ou diferente do Jobs. É uma excelente aula de futurologia e a diferença que faz alguém ser dirigido por motivações grandes e de longo prazo, em termos de como ele age e como recruta e cobra outros.
Ok. First of all I'm not a huge fan of biographies, autobiographies yes, but not biographies.
They usually feel bias.
I'm sure that Musk is eccentric but he often comes across as nuts.
Since he has done so much to help mankind, I'd rather not see him as nuts.
I'm sure that the writer does a great job as a reporter, but I'm not keen on an article in novel form.
That's what this felt like, a really long magazine article.
And don't even get me started on the audio.
Avoid it at all costs.
The guys voice just drones on.
Such an interesting and well-written biography!instagram || my blog || twitter
I'm not sure why the reviews are so universally high across the board for this book.
I thought it was poorly written and focused on all the wrong things.
The author focused on the failures of each company but completely glossed over what made each product and each company climb the peak to success.
I'm assuming the author didn't understand the engineering and science behind why the Tesla Model S and the SpaceX rocket are so amazing and so couldn't explain them.
He goes over the failures in detail, but does not talk about the breakthroughs and advancements in nearly enough depth.
His vision and commitment to make the world a better place through is mind-blowing.
Reading this book really helped me push myself past limits and work even harder.
It's not hard when your know there's someone like Elon putting everything he's got into his big vision, working 16 hours a day for weeks with no breaks and no holidays.
Highly recommended book if you want to glance into the harsh reality of a man who will stop at nothing to change the world for better and the sacrifices he made along the way to his success.
Since Musk’s work consumes the better part of his life, most of the text is on his business projects, each of which is a breakthrough for its time.His South African childhood was marked by bullies at school, hints of abuse at home and violence over apartheid in his area.
There is no info on how he (and his brother) managed the visa system or on their current citizenship status, but Musk appears to be in the US to stay.Vance shines in presenting the engineering and business aspects of Musk’s life and evaluating Musk’s products.
A very well written biography about a man more spectacular than most known superheroes. Be it in intelligence, leadership, interesting backstory, character flaws, Grecian tragedy - it's all there. A man who will stop at nothing to achieve what he envisions. There have been adversaries and critics galore, but the Musk miracles march on.A very inspiring, enlightening and entertaining read. Very highly recommend.
From NY Times: The Bad Behavior of Visionary LeadersAs I was reading Ashlee Vance’s “Elon Musk: Tesla, Space X and the Quest for a Fantastic Future,” I was alternately awed and disheartened, almost exactly the same ambivalence I felt after reading Walter Isaacson’s “Steve Jobs” and Brad Stone’s “The Everything Store: Jeff Bezos and the Age of Amazon.”The three leaders are arguably the most extraordinary business visionaries of our times.
Maybe female billionaire tycoons are all assholes too.Kudos to the first self-made billionaire who manages to change the game multiple times (at the level of iphone/pixar, tesla/space x, amazon/kindle) WITHOUT abusing employees and trampling people's lives.
Because with SpaceX, rocket science is not going to be rocket science anymore!The ratings are for the biography and not for the man himself.
Impossible to believe its non-fiction, and even more difficult to digest all this feat accomplished by a single person!Pros: Too many.
Impossible to list them.
I've become a big fan of Musk and would keep sucking up more info on him.Cons : Didn't feel like a "biography" of Musk.
Most of the info is coming from close sources rather than the man himself (Because he believes in utilising that time for much more important stuff?).
