https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1234164.Reflections_on_a_Marine_Venus
One-third poetry, one-third character, and one-third history.
He's one of the great writers of English literature and mercifully so out of favor and fashion that no academic and no critic can butcher him and reduce him.
He's a writer for readers.
There's a joy to reading Durrell that's like a breeze on the back of your neck.
He's poetry is also remarkably good.
There are no living writers like Durrell and precious few who have ever lived and none who captured just that sinuous current of observation and feeling he did.
Thank God he, like Robinson Jeffers, remains unknown.
Ultimately Durrell's book itself becomes a subtle, beautiful and moving memorial to those smaller souls who die in the service of creating civilisation.My grandfather was an officer in the RAF and his family was deployed in the Mediterranean and Egypt during the war - I grew up on my father's tales of war terrors and dislocations mixed with his enjoyment of Mediterranean sun and sea; while Durrell writes from a different perspective I enjoyed the parallels between the two experiences.

Okay, so this armchair traveller gives Lawrence Durrell 5 stars.
One is romantic: 'Reflections on a Marine Venus' is largely an idyllic portrait of a post-war Rhodes, evoking, for me, a place where the world seems to work for the best even though it clearly isn't Panglossian.
His depiction of his particular friends - Gideon, Hoyle, Mills - is lucid and affectionate, and his description of the 'Marine Venus' captured for me everything that I feel about the classical and Mediterranean world of my limited experience.This is a travel book which memorialises the phrase 'the time of my life'.
Durrell manages to evoke a sweeping, sepia-tinged portrait of Rhodes, coloured by his flowery, impressionistic prose. Quite like his ode to Cyprus (Bitter Lemons) it communicates his intoxication with Levantine world with a sunny eloquence and perceptive eye.Written in the civic aftermath of the Second World War, Lawrence refrains from allowing his personal duties as a press officer to interrupt the current of his thought. His contemplations weave through the threads of history, observation and memoir, and betray a burning curiosity and love for the Greek world. Recommended, but Bitter Lemons is a superior example of his 'travel' writing.
I think this is a book that was probably good in its day, but just has not aged well. It seems to be from an era when snobbery was conflated with wit. There are moments of beauty--the line, "The child is the forfeit we pay for the whole sum of our worldly errors," is particularly memorable. It is interesting as a look at the immediate post-war era.
If you know nothing about the Greek island of Rhodes, and if you can't hold it's quirky history in your brain for long, at least you will come away with a load of mental images of it that will last a lifetime.
How many times is our memory haunted with images from another time and place, but where we cannot quite bring these poignant murmurs into noetic focus, much less refresh them in words on paper?Well, this Epilogue to his "Reflections on a Marine Venus" will humble anyone who tries to better it (the Sporades are Greek islands in the Aegean Sea next modern Turkey).........."The Sporades are lean wolves and hunt in packs; waterless, eroded by the sun.
Relato pintoresco de las costumbres de las islas griegas (especialmente de Rodas). Como siempre, Durrell captura el encanto local desde el punto de vista de un extranjero.
I could tell you what I’ve learned about Rhodes from Durrell’s account – part memoir, part fiction in the sense that all memoir is part fiction – of his time there as a press officer after World War II, but I came away with more impressions of ancient sea battles and wine-drenched afternoons than hard facts.
As such, I’ll let the prose stand for itself:“You arrive in the centre of the ancient town almost before you know it; it is as sudden as a descent from a balloon.
Our hotel turned out to be about two blocks from the house Durrell stayed in while writing the book.
The oleanders are spread pretty thin and the sound of the ocean seldom sounds above the drone of traffic - if at all.I liked, particularly, the historical parts of this book where Durrell goes deeper than the travel guides I read.
I can't really say I got much of a sense of place from them either.
Sometimes I did get a sense of time.It was an adventure he was living, he was aware of the fact and that's worth something.
Durrell has this perfectly mid-century English...style?
I'm not quite sure what it is, but its there.
It reads a certain way that feels not quite like the past or the present, and certainly not the future.
I have to admit a certain guilty pleasure in reading Durrell's "islomanian" novel/travelogues.
He has a way of describing a place to you that isn't quite travel writing or an annoying account of "exotic" lands.
There is an ability in Durrell's writing to suggestively lead you along with him.
That and I really love the old mass-market paperback smell, the decaying glue in the binding, the pages softened by age...
Wir besuchten 2001 die Insel RHODOS. Mit seinem ausgezeichneten Buch "Leuchtende Orangen" (1953 veröffentlicht) verhalf mir Lawrence Durrell auf eine sehr eindrucksvolle Art und Weise unsere Abenteuer auf der Ritterburg, im Hafen mit dem verschwundenen "Koloss von Rhodos", in Kamiros und in Lindos so nachzuvollziehen, als ob ich sie gestern erlebt hatte. So kann nur Lawrence Durrell schreiben. Schon sein Buch "Schwarze Oliven" über Korfu (1945 veröffentlicht) war nach unserem schönen Urlaub 2016 ein großer Gewinn.
Durell's writing talent is undeniable.
The first was that he writes about one step above my reading level and the second was that we were introduced through this book at a time when I felt little desire to stretch myself as a reader.
There were sections that were very good especially when he was speaking of Greek history.
The rest was a little hard to decipher amongst the big words and Greek gods and historical figures that I'd never heard of and were too lazy to look up.
Talented writer, it just wasn't for me.
Reading Reflections ... was an excellent and alien experience. Lawrence Durrell controls and commands the English language like a general and gentleman, and I found his descriptions of the Greek islands around 1950 mesmerizing yet weirder than any fantasy. Because I knew, that the place he showed me, didn't exist anymore. Even though it had been there a mere 60 years ago, it was now just as much beyond my grasp as Narnia or Bradbury's Mars. For that sensation alone, you should read this book.
Okay, I'll admit I'm a sucker for British travel writing from the first half of the 20th century, and Durrell did not disappoint. Now, he's no Fermor, but his portrait of Rhodes in the immediate post-WWII period - when German troops and Italian colonists are still on the island - opens up a civilization that I presume is now almost completely lost.
Durrell's descriptions of Rhodes are lush and vibrant; he is a master at evocative language. However, his rampant zenophobia towards Greek people is distracting and, frankly, appalling. Read this book to transport yourself to a Greek island; not to get a warm portrait of the island's inhabitants.
Not the best of Durrell's non-fiction "books of place," but still a very interesting read about his time on the island of Rhodes in the aftermath of WW2. Definitely worth reading for Durrell fans and for those who want to catch the feeling of the Greek Isles.
I took this instead of a guidebook when my wife and I went to Rhodes. The blend of history and his funny anecdotes helped make it a great trip.
I loved this book. Not only a great travel book but an interesting snapshot of expats immediately after the war trying to find their feet. The writing is alive and first rate.
Lovely look into life on a Greek Island.
A book about some exotic place that's not a piece of "travel writing," a genre which my hatred knows no bounds for.
There are moments of brilliance that capture a time and place that feels lost and almost mythical. Recommended but not really his best.
