https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6316821-first-lord-s-fury
I'm so sad it's over!!! The Codex Alera is officially one of my new favorite series. Since I've gushed endlessly in all of the preceding reviews, I think that's all I need to say to cap it off at this point. The first one is just okay. Keep reading!!
ES IST VORBEI. Ich vermisse all die tollen Charaktere jetzt schon. Dafür war es grandios und genial und gehört definitiv zu den besten Fantasyreihen überhaupt!
Are you in the mood for some deep philosophical ideas combined with excellent character development?
Do you want to read something similar to Dresden Files?
I mentioned minimal character development.
There was only one character whose development was very disappointing.
Considering the fact that I gave every book of the series - including this one - 4 stars, this is also my rating for the whole.
If you are looking for great entertaining story which will not put too much strain on your brain (and let us fact it, we all need to read such story once in a while) read this.
I hope more people read this great series.It’s a really great book with lots of action and lots of fun.
Definitely among the best books written by Jim Butcher, so prepare yourself for this big battle, because most of it is a super-awesome battle.
The series has one of the best cast of characters I've ever seen, there’re so many characters that I really like.It really feels like Jim Butcher wrote this series especially for me, like he knows exactly what makes me enjoy reading fantasy so much:)The book deserves a perfect score of 5/5.
This is the final book in the series & it did sum everything up nicely - too nicely.
Butcher is just too attached to some of his characters.
(view spoiler)[ I was never worried that a major, well-loved character could die.
Life isn't fair.There were also a lot of magical fixes & a few things that didn't make any sense at all.
So, not a great story, but still fun & a pretty neat world.
Overall, I give the series a 'pretty good' rating.
Certainly not a 'must read' but it would make a good set of books for the beach.
Oh Mr. Butcher, You are so good, you left me in sad/happy tears. I hated to say goodbye to Tavi after spending a year with him and his companions. I loved and hated them, they became a part of me. His story ended so well, so beautifully weaved through horrors, happiness and heartbreaks. I was there riding the moving earth with him and I was there for the signing of the final contract. What an amazing trip it has been.
Here we had a story that is a perfect gateway drug for history lovers into fantasy, incorporating the idea of an ancient Roman society getting to a place with all kinds of nature spirits called furies, which they have learnt to work with and ultimately use to extend their own powers.
So here is the elephant in the room; this is nothing like Mr. Butcher's Dresden Files.
He is not at all like the adorable bonehead with a tendency of powering through as his ass gets kicked in all kinds of ways again.
Tavi kind of feels like the opposite of Harry.
A great ending to a good series. The books got better as they went along. The first two were weak but the last four all very good. The magic system built around the Roman legions was well done as were the characters, deceptions and intrigue.
Executive Summary: A mostly satisfying conclusion to an enjoyable series.Audio book: Another enjoyable performance by Kate Reading. She really adds that extra something I hope to get from every audio book performance. Full Review This series is a lot of fun. My main complaint on my first read still holds true on the reread. I just don't care about the Vord. I enjoy the internal politics of the Alerans. I love the differences of the Alerans to the Marat, Canim and Ice Men. The battles and interac
Executive Summary: A mostly satisfying conclusion to an enjoyable series.Audio book: Another enjoyable performance by Kate Reading.
The scenes where the Vord Queen is talking just felt to go on too long.That said, I ended up enjoying this book more on my reread than I did the first time.
Most things are wrapped up pretty well, but I'd love to get a sequel book/series where we catch up to how things play out 20 or 50 years down the road.
HUGE FIVE STARS!!!Well, me and my nerdy, fantasy loving self simply adored this entire series.
Tavi is all grown up, the First Lord of Alera, and it has been such a fascinating journey.
Jim Butcher simply floors me with his imagery and skill at finding just the right way to write something as to keep me completely absorbed during the ENTIRE SERIES.
Truly, in the fantasy world, there seems to be a handful of standout authors amidst a freaking TON of so-sos.
And I realize that this may have been more a review for the series that for First Lord's Fury.
I am truly in awe of Jim Butcher.
I enjoyed the characters the most.
They were all easy to like and better yet, they were characters you could root for.
The battles between good and evil were strong and this pulled me in.This book is the last in this series and the author brought closure to everyone.
The ending was a little too sweet and somehow, even with all the battles, everyone (meaning the main characters) all survived relatively unscathed.
If one had met their demise, I might have been a little more emotionally tied to this, but still.....all in all.....
a well crafted creative story by one of my favorite authors.
Yes, a fun series ends here, with some unfinished business but on a feel-good footing.
It's clear that Butcher had a good sense of where his series was going from the beginning.
Having read all six books, I'd classify this series as fantasy light, although there is apocalyptic death and destruction, grim murder, rape, slavery, treachery, betrayal, mind control, and zombie-like creatures.
Spoilers below!!!!Butcher successfully portrayed Fidelius as a total fiend in book 1.
About a dozen characters play key roles, showing up in each book across the series.
Still, I loved this series, especially book 3, Cursor's Fury.
No matter how crazy the plan or how painful the results, once restored, the coyote finds himself undeterred and ready to strap himself to a giant rockets and light the fuse.
This is a quality enjoyed by the heroes of Alera who are always ready to try a crazy plan that never fails to leave them a bloody mess.
Butcher has shown throughout this series and the Dresden Files that his characters are extremely vivid and his writing is driven by them more than by a meticulously crafted plot.
**possible spoilers**After Princeps' Fury I thought I might be experiencing a bit of series overkill since I was reading the books back to back in a matter of weeks.
I was starting to be disappointed in the characters and the movement of the plot, so I decided to step away for a few months hoping that I would return refreshed and ready to finish the series.But I discovered it wasn’t me after all.
I felt like I was reading so many long battle scenes, where these creatures were being crushed by the thousands only to return in greater numbers with no hope of an end in sight.
The furyless boy who stopped a barbarian invasion ,the Academ who saved the First Lord's life,the Captain who fought for years the Canim and inspired everyone to follow him to death ,the Princeps who forged strong alliances became the First Lord who led his people to victory and the reason the Realm survived.
Nor can I describe my sorrow that it is over,or the relief that my heroes are safe,or the grief about the anonymous Alerans and Canim and Marat who perished trying to defend their world;I even cried for people I scarcely knew (Cereus gave a whole new meaning to the word sacrifice).I won't rumble about what a great hero Tavi is,that's pretty obvious.What I do want to share,is how much I came to like Fidelias,it surprised even me!
I finished all six volumes in Jim Butcher’s Codex Alera series, so I’m writing one review to cover the whole set. Regardless of which of the books this review is attached to, if you want to read this epic saga, start with the first book:  Furies of Calderon . I’ve also read all fourteen of the full-length books in his  Dresden Files , and there are some interesting points of comparison.First and foremost, this is a well-crafted and engrossing tale — definitely worth reading.The tale follows the
The characters are engaging and adequately complex, the plot starts well and grows satisfyingly convoluted, and there is plenty of action to drive things forward.Because the story begins when Tavi is still only fifteen, the first volume is weaker than the sequels.
This is another aspect that makes the first book weaker — because Tavi is still growing emotionally, there are too many opportunities for the author to indulge himself with the self-righteous attitudes of adolescence.Butcher has a long way to go before he can honestly portray real nuance in personality types.

No doubt about that 5th star for the book and the series!
Although this book ends the series there just seems to be so much more to be written.
An entire book epilogue would be perfect.
The epilogue in this one gave you a good idea on how things ended up and you can use your imagination on how the characters are going to complete their lives but I just LOVE THEM ALL AND WANT MORE!!!!
I actually thought that it ended pretty good.
Where the line between good and evil is very blurry and you like an underdog check this series out.
One more epic fantasy series complete!A wonderful story with huge character growth, great friendships, and an ending that leaves who feeling whole and satisfied. Six books was the perfect length for this series. I got exactly as much story as I wanted but it didn't drag on for 14 books.
I'M DONE. I DID IT. PLEASE TAKE THESE BOOKS OUT OF MY MEMORY NOW.
Words can not express how amazing this series is.
3.5 stars for this book and the series overall.I enjoyed the Codex Alera. Jim Butcher struck a good balance between humour and seriousness, romance, politics, and fantasy elements, and success and failure in the face of a seemingly insurmountable foe. I felt satisfied by the end of the series. I'm sorry that I'm too lazy to write a better review, but there you have it. :)
Butcher is in love with these characters.
Even toward the end when it seemed someone finally did manage to get killed, he couldn't help but bring them back.
But you can't have characters get in the kind of trouble these people were getting in and not have a fatality.
But the reader knows that all the main characters will be fine.
Really, the writing is fine and probably deserves about a four but my frustration with the lack of danger in the world and the plot devices to keep the characters alive had me slamming my head against the wall by the final book.
[3.5 Stars]
Fantastic
Rating 4.0 stars, overall series rating 4.5 starsWell, this is the end.
The problems I had in the previous books are still there, but the things that I enjoyed in the book far outweighed any minor problem I had with the books.
The bad, as I stated in previous reviews, is the over-the-top story telling.
I am talking about Winning the Lottery type of odds when you forget to by a ticket (which means the only way to win would be to find a discarded winning ticket - so yeah, insanely bad odds).
WOW this book and series deserves a massive 5 stars I thoroughly enjoyed everything about it i can't think of one thing wrong with it. This series is definitely in my top 5 I will leave a full review later when I have time enough to articulate how truly brilliant this series is
Jim Butcher is a master of the craft of storytelling.
He batters you down to the point where you are weeping at the events unfolding in the Alerian universe and yet holding back laughter at the jaunty turns of phrases that the characters themselves use to 'lighten' the mood.
At the heart of it, Jim Butcher kills characters who should die.
Lets live characters we want to die.
There were very few points that I wanted to put down the book, there just wasn't time!
Jim Butcher will rip your heart out, but you'll get nothing but pure satisfaction from the story.
I read somewhere that Butcher intended to take on common fantasy tropes, and having finished the series it's clear to me that all the plot elements are standard fare, and this last book in the series perhaps is the most cliched, though superbly executed with suspense and action.
Butcher's style is gripping and hard to put down, though at this point it's somewhat of a relief to be done with the series, if only because now I can sleep at night without wondering how the story is going to end.
A satisfying ending to a great series that kept me entertained and made me keep on reading.
The characters were great, the action was non-stop and Fidelias was awesome (like always).
I ended up understanding and feeling sorry for the vord queen and I think that is the greatest strength of the series.
The motives behind the actions are realistic and clear.
The bad guys aren't inherently bad.
I really hope Butcher will continue the series, as I want to see what will happen in the future, especially when the remaining vord queen attacks them.
