https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1062516.No_David_
MY NAME IS DAVID AND I LOATHE THIS BOOK.Why?
Instead of being taught to embrace life in all its infinite variety, the feral, razor-toothed, wolf-child is subjected to a constant stream of negativity and denial from an obviously sadistic disembodied 'authority figure'.2.
Even feral children deserve a little time with the orthodontist.
The crude, ugly caricature of a wolf-child that the author presents here is a hideous calumny with the potential to cause severe emotional damage to Davids throughout the land.4.
A classic among children's books, this book never ceases to amuse me. David distinctly reminds me of my brother when he was an innocent blond. Here's one memory of his countless antics.I've always wondered what kind of person David would grow up to be. While I have trouble envisioning a teenage David, I doubt he'd be identical to my brother. Still, I can't imagine that they'd be markedly different. All in all an endearing book.
One of my favorite children's stories, probably because it reminds of me of my oldest son when he was small. David seems prone to get in trouble, and even though he seems to have trouble behaving, his mommy loves him unconditionally. We love the illustrations; my grand daughter got the biggest kick out of the one where he has escaped down the street after his bath, running butt-naked. : )
My 2-year old son insists I give this book 5 stars. I myself would give it three ... maybe even 2 since David is told NO so often without explanations of why or attempts at redirection ... but this is the one book my son brings to me time and time again. I literally read it to him 6 times today. He's adorable when he reads along with me. So I guess that any book that gets such love from my 2-year old deserves 5 stars. :)
This book details the adventures of David being bad while his mother continually tells him: “NO, DAVID!” David Shannon’s first attempt at making the “David” series is truly a masterpiece to this very day.
“No, David!” is one of David Shannon’s finest children’s books ever created and is surely to make anyone laugh out loud whenever they witness David’s mischief in the household and making his mother go crazy when she keeps telling him, “NO, DAVID!” Even though this book might entice bad behavior towards children, it is suitable for children ages four and up since the vocabulary and the writing style are simple to read for any preschooler.Review is also on: Rabbit Ears Book Blog
My middle son's favorite book as a child. The little stinker - he especially loved the part when David ran naked down the street to avoid a bath. We giggled and giggled everytime we read this book together.Man! I miss when my boys were little.
Great series for 2-5 year olds. My nephews loved to hear (and see--terrific illustrations) the many ways naughty David got in trouble. But no matter how bad David was, by the end of the book he knows that Mommy still loves him.:)Also consider the follow-ups David Goes To School, and David Gets in Trouble.You'll cringe at David's antics, and be thankful that your child isn't that bad!:)
This is a great book. I read it to my preschool class during the first week of school. I used it as a teaching tool to talk about appropriate classroom behavior. After reading the book we created a list of classroom rules. This book was very helpful.
I read this because I wanted to complete my good reads goal ha ha!! *Cheater*
The second reason was that in addition to him not getting in trouble his mom just says "yes David, I love you!" First, we do not even know david was questioning this.
It also may suggest that a punishment for bad behaviors makes kids believe they are not loved-which any parent would agree is not true.
I believe I would have liked this book much better had it been longer and included David having a longer punishment than a passive and dismissed and over-looked time-out.
The action depicted through David are relatable to kids as behaviors they too may get in trouble for.
I have to add this Caldecott award winner to our children's favorite books.
Another wonderful David book, it had many things which both my 5 yr old and twin preschoolers could relate to.
Almost every page had them wide-eyed with disbelief that there could be another kid out there that wants to get into the same trouble they do.
By the end of the book, my twin 3 yr olds were all saying "No David!" at the end of every page.
David Shannon's "David" books are a big win in our house hold.
Love the colors, the drawings, love the reality of it! This weekend I asked a guy if he'd read this book to his son and he informed that no, he hadn't because it was too violent or scary or something.huh?what?David has jagged teeth that's true but, violent? scary? not so much.so I'm kind of giving this book 5 stars because when ever I see it I'll think wow there's is actually a parent out there somewhere that is even more neurotic than me. And let's face it feeling superior in parenting for a change just feels good.
This book reminds me of a certain someone...
This was our son through and through. I can't believe that he'll be 17 in a few months.
Not my favorite David book. Again cute illustrations and the little boy in the story is cute and onrey.
I loved this book!!!!
This is the first picture book I have read since probably fourth grade and oh my gosh it made my day!!!!
But I think if every once in a while you read a childrens book then it would put a smile on your face.
I like this book because it reminds me of when I was a little girl and I would do weird things like David does and my mom would always tell me NO!
The pictures were really cute and I couldnt wait to turn the next page and see what kind of mischievous thing David was going to do next.
No, David!
By David ShannonThis story is about a young boy called David who is constantly being told the word NO!
Each new page shows a picture of David doing something he should not be doing like writing on the wall, reaching the cookie jar, stepping in the mud etc.
This story is amusing for children while reminding parents about what it is like to be a mischievous boy who is constantly being told no.
David may not be your picture perfect child but will give you and the children you read it to a lot of laughs.
Great for storytime. Lots of opportunities for interaction with the repeating refrain of 'No David'. Kids love it, they think it is hysterical. I use it to talk about rules and lead into talking about what is and isn't okay to do in the library.
This book/ series was such a great memory from back then when I was a small kid.
This book is literally about this kid called David making all these troubles.
And as the story goes on, he makes this one big problem, which leads to his mom being really triggered.
Some people can say that this book is for little babies and it's too immature for grown ups to read, but I don't thing like that.
This is a great book for both kids and grown ups (I guess).
Babies to children aged 6 will be captivated by his bad decisions and countless misfortunes as David’s mother scolds him for his naughtiness page after page.
Phrases such as: “No, David!” "Come back here!" "Not in the house, David!" are echoed as you read this book to match with David’s poor choices.
I believe his books are ones that captivate children to want to read at a young age because they are spot on to problems that an everyday child might have.
Shannon’s illustrations are not only appealing, but often help children identify why we should not do the things David does creating children to problem solve on their own!
This book by David Shannon had minimal text, but the illustrations fill in all the other details the reader/s may need.
David, a boy who is consisting getting in trouble from his mom acts out and in the illustrations it shows what and where he is doing stuff.
The images are unrealistic looking, but because of this is makes the book unique in the illustrator drew them adding to David’s character.
As the reader follows David I think anyone could relate to him, how he is always wanting to do something where his mom tells him no, he cannot.
I love this story! Helps tell a story of what not to do in a fun way. Helps generate discussion between parents and children about right and wrong. And how, no matter how much you get in trouble, your parents will always love you.We've borrowed this book several times and the girls just love it!This book was selected as one of the books for the February 2017- Caldecott Honors 1998-2002 discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
The reason I like this book is that children can relate to the story. David gets in trouble over and over and hears "No!". Every child can relate to this, whether the destruction is intentional or not. Children always enjoy this book, and I often see them sitting independently looking through it. This book is great for discussion on when we get in trouble, what we can do when we mess up, or other choices we can make that may keep us from getting into trouble.
very few words. Tells the story through pictures. Shows kids what not to do!
I wasn't enjoying that much, but at the end I could like it. The message behind it is very beautiful.
My younger son loves all of Shannon's books. I can definitely see the appeal, and they're fun to look at, but they're not my favorites.
I really liked this element because there are not many words in the story besides the repetition of David’s mother yelling no, this was a great way to connect the young readers even more to the book.
Throughout the story David is constantly misbehaving, creating a problem-centered book.
This book contains bight and crazy illustrations that are used to tell the story.
Then at the end after David has misbehaved for the last time, his mother calls him over to console and tell him that she loves him.
I feel like I was David himself and I had been there before, even his mom who we never see and only understand through the dialogue and last picture is relatable to your typical mother which I think makes this book awesome.
The amount of words used was very low but with every page you understood more about the characters, the book is surprisingly fresh even after the 20th "no David" I think a big part of that had to do with the authors use of images.Most of this books dialogue plays off of the images.
The first page says, “David’s mom always said…No, David!” From there, David tries to steal cookies, tracks mud in the house, overflows the bathtub, runs around naked in the neighborhood, bangs pots and pans together, plays with his food, and eats with his mouth open until he is eventually sent to his room.
It is important to recognize on the first page David is the one who writes “No David” in the quote, “David’s mom always said…No, David!” This creates the idea that David Shannon is telling the story as recognition of his own actions.This is great book for 4-6 years old who have started to read on their own because it helps them learn how to interpret text and illustrations.
This book was stupid... ...ly AWESOME
I'm not a huge fan of illustrations that show children in an ugly light (pointy teeth, grotesque faces)--even if it is mimicing a child's artistic talent.
I acknowledge a great use of color, and the illustrations telling much of the story.
Also that it is an aspect of life rambunctious children are probably very aware of.
I like the ending is reassuring.
I can see why some children may like this movie...if they can get past the scary pictures.Caldecott honor book.I should recommend this book to David.
He's like it just because his name is in it.
This book doesn't really have a message other than that the things that David are doing in the book, no kid should ever do.
I like the pictures in the book because it is not too artisy, it's almost like a kid colored and drew the pictures themselves and easy colored them which is a good way for the students to be able to connect to the book in a way.
The books doesn't really have an insight or hidden message to it, however it is a joyful books for students and children to read for fun.
David is constantly getting into trouble.
This book teaches that even thought your parents can be upset with you , they get onto you and set rules because they love and want to protect you.
I will have students in my class that this book can really hit home with, and they might feel as if their parents do not love or like them because they are constantly doing the wrong thing.
I want my students to know that no matter who bad they are behaviorally, they are still loved and cared for.
I gave five stars for this book because it delivers a colorful illustration and a good example of how a parent would always care for their child even when they are not behaving right and especially when they do not deserve it.
It is a good book to read to show how parents love their child unconditionally and spontaneously.
Since the book does not provide any explanations, I can use the illustration to ask my students what they think and what do they feel about the picture and the story.
I can use this book to explain emotions and feelings when a certain situation occurs.
His mother would always say “No, David!” in hoping he would stop!
The setting of this story takes place in a typical home, one that many people can relate to because there is messes everywhere and crazy kids!
The story uses full-bleed images to completely immerse you into the story and make you feel like you are there with david and his mother.I like this book because I read it wish my grandma all the time when I was younger so it is a classic for me, I love it because it tells you that no matter how crazy you are you’re mother will still always love you.
From writing on the wall to running down the street without any clothes on, his mother always scolds him exclaiming, “no, David!” Shannon’s picturebook shows that a mother’s love for her child overcomes everything, even after all of David’s shenanigans.
For example, apart from the visual illustrations indicating this setting, although there isn’t much dialogue to analyze, readers can tell that the speech is very modern with sentences like “come back here David” or “that’s enough David.” Going along with the text of the book, the tone of No, David is very demanding.
David and his mother are completely fictional; however, the story set in modern times is completely realistic.
David's mother keeps on telling him to stop what he is doing, such as playing with his food, jumping on his bed, picking his nose and playing ball in the house.
Is a book that is fun to read and is guaranteed to have children interacting right along with you.The characters in this book are David and his mother, this little boy seems to be doing everything wrong to get his mother's attention.
The conflict in this book is between David and his mother, she would like him to stop being naughty so she tells him No!
This book is about a young boy called David who does not do what his mum asks him and instead does some naughty things, such as eating with his mouthful and drawing on walls.
This book has a few words on each page and it is easy for young children to read.
This book reminded me of when my siblings were little and always doing things to get into trouble, such as leaving their toys everywhere.
The ending of the book was really nice because it shows children that regardless of what they do wrong and despite getting into trouble, their parents/family will always love them, which is important for children to see.
The kids love this book because they can easily read the text as well.
"No, David" is a Caldecott Honor Book and I think David Shannon does a great job with the illustrations.
The book is dedicated to Shannon's mom and wife.
I think this background knowledge makes the book special and the illustrations are drawn with a purpose.
"No, David!" touches on a lot of good lessons young kids learn.
These are all realistic scenarios kids get into and the parental response is usually "no".
Shannon's illustrations are realistic and appealing to the eye.
is a hilarious book for young readers that tells the story of a little boy who is always being told no by his mother.
I have used this book in a small reading group before and the students laughed along with every page (especially when David forgot his pants!).
I think that it is very important to have books like these on the shelves in every classroom.
Books like this that engage students and make them laugh are important to developing a love of reading in young students.
Just as with every other David Shannon book, the pictures are spectacular as well.
I am rather biased when it comes to this book. I have bought it several times and wore it out. You see, my son is named David and he has done everything the other David has done, TWICE!!! So I come to love that book and read it to him several times a day when he was a little boy. I still love that book.
"No, David!" follows the day of a young boy, David, who is constantly doing silly things around his house to get himself into trouble.
David gets himself into plenty of trouble, and his mom tries to teach him better manners and how to behave along the way.
Between the pictures and the fun way that the words are written to look like a kid wrote them, this book captivates the attention of the reader.
This is a cute, silly book that I would definitely recommend to any young reader looking for a good laugh.
I really like this book, it is piece of art.
I must say this is one of the greatest books ever.
The author is a genius, I haven't read much of his works but I really want to.
The illustrator is a very creative and innovative artist, perhaps the next Van Gogh.
David Shannon is a very inspirational author and with every word from "No!
I cried when the book ended because it was just too emotional, but in the epilogue it was very uplifting.
At that point in time I thought I must fulfill David's dream, where he had failed.
as David Jr.
My oldest son's name is David and I bought the board book when he was a toddler.
The "No, David" series of books by David Shannon are some of the most fun books.
Toddlers love the colorful pictures, preschool and K students love the antics, and even 1st grade teachers use the "No, David!" books to teach rules at the beginning of the school year.
The "No, David!" story is based loosely on David Shannon's youth, apparently he heard "no!" a lot, as most young children do!
This book is a fun way to talk about what you can and cannot do, and to show that no matter what, "Yes, David...
Book summary: Is a fun and quick book for children to read that like to break the rules. 2) Grade level: 1st-2nd grade3) Appropriate classroom use: When discussing manners and following directions. 4) Individual students who might benefit from reading: Students who typically do not follow the rules 5) Small group use (literaturecircles): Would not use this in small groups6) Whole class use (read aloud) I think this book would be a fun book to read with the class. 7) Related books in genre/subject or content area:8) Multimedia connections (audio book, movie) available: N/A
