https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278099.Going_Home
Prvi roman Danijele Stil i jedan od mojih 20 prevoda njenih romana...
Te godine kad je objavljen ovaj prevod imala sam zadovoljstvo i čast da uđem u autorkinu kuću...
Nažalost, budući da je moja poseta pala 3 meseca posle samoubistva njenog sina nisam mogla da dobijem od nje intervju za RTS...
Ali sam videla kako izgleda mašinerija iza njenih knjiga...
Ljude koji za nju obavljaju istraživanja...
:) A lični asistent joj je bio u to vreme veoma zgodan mladić, kao sa reklama...
ali kao i većina populacije San Franciska, duginih boja...
:)Ovaj prevod trebalo je ove godine da ima novo izdanje, ali...
It was a book that was difficult to get through, yet at the same time I didn't want to put it down.
I absolutely hated the main character, Gillian.
The whole time I felt compelled to reach into the book and shake the woman.While I hated the main character, I did enjoy the interjection of side plots based on her friends, and was pleased that even if Gillian couldn't see a good man in front of her that her friend could.
”Every woman falls in love with a bastard at least once in her life.”- Danielle Steel Setting:New York City and San Francisco; 1973Cover Thoughts?:Well, my book didn’t have a dust jacket, so all I got was a plain boring hardback book. But from this cover, it looks like a house I’d want to live in. Although, really, the MC never lives in an actual house that looks anywhere near like this. Plot: ”They stood around us, and watched us go, hand in hand, going home.”  In the sunswept beauty of San Fr
The plot basically revolved around the wettest of wet noodles out there (Gillian Forrester) as she proceeds to fall madly in love with the most arrogant, self-absorbent of assholes (Chris Matthews).
The quote that starts out this review is Danielle Steel’s concept for writing this book; she took this concept and not only ran with it, she ran with it while yelling the whole way, “I do what I want!” The stupidity of the characters and their actions was cringe- inducing, not to mention their immaturity.
It was like a bad car wreck.
It was full of emotional abuse, which I'm surprised didn't take on the form of physical at times.
Of course Gillian chose the wrong man.
Near the end I was for sure Chris was trying to get out of marring the pregnant Gillian but he really was dead.
But life went on for Gillian.
Wish I could get some time back from reading this...
but like I said for some odd reason I wanted to see what happened.
Not because I liked it, but to see if this woman whould come to her senses.
I have two words - BULL POOPIE
I don’t even know where to start with this book.I have never been so angry while reading before.
The characters were either annoying or just mean and hateful.
The storyline is all over the place and sometimes you find yourself lost and don’t even know what is happening.
When I first picked this up I really wanted to love it, but I just ended up angry and wanted to give up reading it altogether.
I'm not one that hates anything I read.
I have one of her other books so I will try that one.
Despite my feelings towards this book I will give her other one a try.
And back then, I thought it was amazing.
You know, I was young and hadn't yet started reading a lot of the books in the adult literature section at Barnes & Noble.
Well, I finished yet another book this past week and had a sudden craving for Going Home, and decided to read it again.
Honestly, I can't believe I adored this book the way I did when I first read it.
She knows how to make you not want to put her books down.
She knows how to make you laugh and cry.
The book seemed to be total trash in the beginning.
The main protagonist Gillian pissed me off, I must admit, mainly because of her strange attitude to love and relations between men and women.
So many women fall for bastards rejecting good guys and can't do a thing about it.
That's in our nature..On the other hand, the book has many good points.
Thumbs Up!The thing most precious in this book is the end, that is the last 20-30 pages.
The end is strong, maybe too strong for such a mediocre book.
I read this for genre discussion at work. What a steaming pile of shit. Good riddance.
I read this back in the day when I read all the Danielle Steel I could get my hands on [some I even liked. Some I read because I knew they were "forbidden" books ;-) ]. I don't remember the exact date, but I do remember reading it.
Chris is basically a self-absorbed asshole who does what he wants and waffles between romantic fool and "Look, a doormat with a vagina." Gillian fades in and out of TSTL territory with the guy, and when she becomes pregnant his solution is to have her move against her will to the other side of the country.
He's so freaked out he can't even be on the same coast - how badly do you want to punch this guy in the back of the head?Without revealing the whole story, I'll share my likes/dislikes:LikesSteel's style wasn't all that bad.
Funny enough, I had no interest in wanting to read this book.
I didn't even realize I was reading a Danielle Steel book.
Like really drag on, but the way it was written made it interesting and intriguing enough for me to read through it.
Mind you, I did want to slap the main character a few times for her horrible decisons.
Then again, where's the fun if you can't get mad at fictional characters.I'll no longer be just grabbing for a Danielle Steel book to pass time, I'll be looking for them.

Seriously? That's what I thought on every other page of this book. Since it was February I thought I would read a romance. Who better than the queen of romance herself? Danielle Steel! I hadn't read a book by her since I was 14 or 15. So I decided to start at the beginning with her first novel. It was brutal! I wanted to shake the main character and I detested Chris. Like really detested him. The best thing about the entire book was the last page.
This isn't the edition I have - I have an original paperback published in 1973 by Pocket Books. At any rate, I first read this in 1982 at the tender, impressionable age of 19, and I loved it. Yes, it's cheesy and overwrought and melodramatic, and the hippie style wouldn't hold up today, but it hit me hard back in those days. I strongly dislike romance novels, and I think I've only read one or two other of Steel's books, but this one was enjoyable.
Where do I begin?Well...this was recommended to me by one of my residents at work. She lent me her copy of it and wanting to be able to connect with her I decided to give it a shot. Honestly, I should have known better. It took me a week to finish...and I spent most of that time cringing. And yet I couldn't stop because it was like watching a train wreck...I had to know how it was going to end. Still...regardless...definitely not the book for me!
This is the first Danielle Steel book I read. I was probably 12 and thinking back it was probably too mature for me, but I still remember the story and have gone back and read it many times since then.
I read this book when i was so young and shouldn't have been reading such books yet.It made me cry rivers....Gillian just loved that wrong guy Chris and he really took her for a ride...a rough one i must say
mwah mwah. Ik had er meer van verwacht. Ik ergerde me een beetje aan de hoofdpersoon, aan haar veel te relaxte vriend, en toen het beter werd, was het gelijk 4dubbeldikke drama. Al met al wel vermakelijk en prima voor t slapen gaan.
Glad this wasn't the first Danielle Steel book I ever read...I would never have read another one.
this is the one an only book i ever purposely stole from the library.it's that good.especially when you're 12.couldn't find the right cover art though. Dammit!
This is probably the only Danielle Steel novel I would ever consider re-reading.
I literally want to gouge my eyes out, its so bad that it was funny at some points "His face was as expressionless as his bare ass" or upon viewing a hippie orgy, "I just didn't DIG that scene" (sooo 70s), but that humor wore off.
Gillian doesn't really have much self worth, she keeps coming back to damn Chris.
When she's pregnant, he's all "Wow I love you so much but I need space because i'm allergic to responsibility, please uproot you and your daughter again :-)" And She MARRIES HIM???
Overall, it was a fairly good book, especially the last half or so, it got much better towards the end, I thought.
There were certain things throughout the book that were problematic to me, like for example, the main character, Gillian Forrester, becomes pregnant at a certain point, and Danielle Steel writes about her drinking and smoking during her pregnancy.
The book did get better as it went on, and it was actually quite good, except that towards the end, there was a lot of sadness, but overall, especially considering it was her first novel, not too bad, so that's why I gave it three stars.
It's 6:35 a.m. on day 6 of the New Year so I'm off to a good start towards this year's reading challenge.I read Danielle Steele for the first time back in the '80s and was a fan for many years until she moved from the romance genre in a direction that I didn't care for.
Going Home is the first of her books that I've read in the past 15 years or more.
It is reminiscent of the books, written by her so many years ago, that I enjoyed--some of which I have re-read.For me, Danielle Steele has an easy, comfortable writing style.

This is the book that started it all. Steel created a character who was maddeningly obtuse, falling into a relationship with a man who obviously was not good for her and only cared about himself. With the choice between two men, one who truly cares for and for which they have much in common and the egomaniac, Steel takes matters into her own hands and reduces the choice to one, the correct one. Would Gillian have made the right decision on her own? I doubt it.
Unfortunately this was the book I threw into my purse before a Dr appointment. I had over a 2 hour wait and only had this terrible book to read. Why any publishing house would sign Danielle Steele after reading this manuscript is beyond me. I have read several authors first books many times and none as horrible as this one. The only reason I finished this garbage was to get credit for my GoodReads challenge.
2.5 starsThis is definitely a first novel written in the 70’s. Gender, racial and sexual politics are collar-tug awkward. Is paced like a decent fan fiction. There’s actually a lot of similarities between this and fan fiction. Weird pacing. Drags at times, speeds through at others. Full review on The Steel Mill on Sunday.
I read it when I was 15 while procrastinating Irish homework, and wept in a way I've rarely wept since. And that is the sole reason it gets so many stars, because my young teenage tears discounted, it's not very good at all
