https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55792.The_Magician_s_Nephew_The_Lion_The_Witch_and_the_Wardrobe_The_Horse_and_His_Boy
This book ended with such a satisfying end in that it creatively planted the seeds for The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe.Of course, that book was great...but hampered a bit, since I already knew what was going to happen.A Horse and His Boy, was yes, far behind in luster and excitement compared to its first two predecessors, {far be it for me to criticize the great C.S.Lewis...but the horse scenes...yikes!} Though there is a passage I absolutely loved that I will share with you: "Child" said the voice, {Aslan} "I am telling you her story, not yours.
I bought these books to get Katey going because my mother read them aloud to us. Katey didn't bite but I was so hooked early on that I am just going to read all seven books. Magicians Nephew is great. It gives you the background behind Lion, Witch and the Wardrobe. I really enjoyed this story. It is really interesting. CS Lewis had an amazing imaginiation...
سومین کتاب از سری قصه های نارنیا که جذابیت خودشو داشت. جمله خاصی نداشت که توجهمو جلب کنه، فقط دوستداشتنی بود
I read the magicians nephew and the lion, witch, and wardrobe I am currently reading the horse and boy. i was suprised by how much I enjoyed the first two, they're an easy read.
Surprisingly I preferred The magicians nephew and The horse and his boy to the Lion, the witch and the wardrobe. That's probably because I already knew the story. I found the magicians nephew fascinating since it's about how everything started and the horse and his boy was great because I loved the middle eastern setting and the idea of escaping and going on a journey.
It was quite time to re-read the Chronicles! These are the first three! What a joy!
Il mio libro dell’infanzia. È nella mia libreria da 30 anni. Ho letto e riletto soprattutto “ il nipote del mago”
Loved learning the origin of the Wardrobe and why Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy's Uncle was so understanding when they first approached him about Lucy.
Now I’m losing some steam…feel free to prod me along if you can.When I was younger, I only read The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe, and I had no concept of the fact that this was a series.
So I’d say if I had to rate the book, I’d give it 2.5-3 snitches for amusement.Re-reading the second one was especially fun for me.
Definitely would rate this one 3 snitches and I remembered why I wanted to re-read it and tackle the whole series.
Then came book 3…I know The Horse and His Boy has been a favourite of a few Narnia readers, but I just couldn’t get into it.
Lucy is quite taken with this new place until the faun tells her about the White Witch who has made it forever winter in Narnia.
While Edmund sets off for her castle to tell her that he brought his siblings this time, Lucy, Susan, and Peter stay at the home of the beavers after discovering the faun's ransacked home-he has been taken by the White Witch.
After reading the book you will discover that this is an image of Mr. Tumnus (the faun) the first time he meets Lucy in Narnia.
3 stars]When this was published, it was probably seen as quite a decent little fantasy adventure, and maybe it's still possible to read it at that level now (though even then it feels dated and too "precious").
3 and 1/2 stars]It's an interesting experience, reading something as an adult for the first time, when you've seen it adapted as both a live action and an animated movie.
That's not actually a criticism of the book itself; I suspect I would have loved this as a kid - particularly its grab-bag approach to incorporating aspects of Western mythology, not to mention the talking animals :-).
The four children help the creatures overcome the evil queen in a great adventure story.The CritiqueThe book has a lot of important issues and themes, such as good vs evil, compassion and forgiveness.
Like the Narnia book, Greek mythology stories such as Hercules, the Medusa and the Troy wars, have very beautiful stories that have “hidden” lessons behind the character's story.I found the book very entertaining and interesting.
I have watched the Narnia movies, and reading the book gave me a lot more details about the story, atmosphere and characters.
It’s a beautiful adventure story, full of interesting and strange characters and creatures to discover.
This version also had lovely pictures which I also really liked seeing it as been a while since I have read a book with pictures.I did enjoy each story, the imagination is endless and something you do not see too often in today's fantasy books.
I did enjoy the stories but I think I need to re read them once I'm older to further appreciate the joys of the Chronicles of Narnia.
Here's the deal- if you read these at 23 you'll likely ask some of these questions:1.
What kind of social justice and human relations issues are at work?
What are the implications of the race relations?
As the series progresses, the ideas and characters seem to become more complex- How does the series and world evolve together?
How do the characters contribute to the evolution, and vice-versa?
Personally, I find it very easy to be young at heart, and let too many of these questions slide just to enjoy the ride.
My favorite character of the series is Edmund, simply for his transcendence, genuine nature, and loyalty.
The description of the actual creation of Narnia is breathtaking and I could actually see some of the movie as I read the description - it amazed me to think that C.S. Lewis actually wrote the description as it seemed like something that came about the other way around.
I always loved C.S. Lewis - this just reinforced that.P.S. I would not necessarily recommend it for a 6 year old; it's just fine to start wth The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe and then read this one, as I did, retrospectively.
Loved it.
His philosphies are so fun.
I love how his mind works.
I just found out I am not reading them in order.
Oh well, I guess this came after "Lion" but I did read that one first so I guess I'll be okay.
Loved how he worked in the lamp post, the wardrobe.
I loved the characters of the cabbie and his wife becoming royalty.
That struck a real chord with me.
Will be using this quote for my YW's lesson on optimism:Page 199: When things go wrong, you'll find they usually go on getting worse for some time; but when things once start going right they often go on getting better and better.pg 128:Laugh and fear not, creatures.
Okay...Barnes and Noble didn't have a decently priced edition Game of Thrones, so I didn't get it.
What's the deal with having book one only as a Trade Paperback or Hardcover, and the sequels in Mass Market?
So, since Prince Caspian is being released Friday, I thought I should refresh my memory of Narnia.
And, lo and behold, I found a seven-in-one edition for only $14.95!!!
I almost didn't get it, but come on, for fiteen bucks, all seven?
I haven't read Narnia since I was in jr.
high, and come to think of it, I don't think I even read the entire series.
This book is about 4 children Peter, Susan , Lucy and Edmund Pevensie.
These children are basically forced to live their home in london due to the war.
On the first rainy day there they were exploring the house Lucy found what was to become Narnia.
If you have seen the Narnia movie then the book will not be interseting.
So I recommend if you have not seen the movie to read this book first.What I learned from this book is that many things out of the ordinary may feel real to you so always have an imagination.
I think my favourite of the 3 would have to be the Magician's Nephew though because it reminded me of an Alice in Wonderland sort of thing only that it made a lot more sense and had an actual plot.
I read The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe in 6th or 7th grade and remember thinking it was sort of weird, but after reading the first one I appreciate it more now.
I think the whole Chronicles of Narnia are fun to read in general when you have time to pay attention to it.
This novel is set in a land of talking animals and mythical creatures that has been in a deep winter for about a hundred years due to an evil witch.
The story takes place in country house during World War II when they began to evacuate London.
Four siblings together face their trials together and together they visit the new world.
This novel has many underlining themes and is relatively an easy read for young readers.
I personally enjoy the book and believe that if taught in class many different themes could be taken from its pages.
I read The Magicians Nephew.Digory's evil uncle brings Polly to another world and Digory follows to bring her back.
They go to another world and meet an evil queen.
The evil queen goes with them to their world and makes a chaos.
Digory brings the evil queen to another world but Polly, Digory's uncle, a horse and the Cabby go with them.
Aslan, a lion, makes a strange music and he creates Narnia.
Digory, Polly and the horse that can now fly go on a journey to bring Aslan a special apple.
Another tree is planted and Digory takes a apple to cure his mother.
I think I was about 27 or 28 when I read these books and I enjoyed them just as much as a child would. Its categorized as a children's book but,it is not immature and an adult can enjoy it just as much as their children. It has plenty of characters,adventure,and excitement. I loved the lessons woven within the books to be learned. I would recommend that every child read these books, and maybe even adults as well.
I thought that this book was good but the second oen of the series was better. The part I liked about the book was the pools that the two kids went into which made them go into different worlds. When I thought about this I though it was like the Christian walk with Christ. He we always open a door to a new way of life, kind of like the different pools that lead to different worlds. I do think people should read this book espcially teens.
When I was about seven years old, I immersed myself into a wonderful world that had adventure, magic, spirituality, and a great lesson in growing up. I have re-read the Chronicles several times over the years, and while I can never re-live the magical feeling I had the first time, I do get bits and pieces of memory when I do...
My delight knows bounds. It was a distraction from the election frenzy, but I can see why my son lost interest in the series when I attempted to read this to him some decades ago. In the new numeration this is Volume 3: I think it was much better left later in the series as a back story fill in. There is the Horse and his boy and a mare and her girl, but more that that I will not say.
Wait, aren't there more? My memory fails me frequently, but I'm sure there are more than this--like 7 or 8? I read them and then read them with my son, after which, he sat down and read all of the books yet again. C. S. Lewis understood Christianity and human nature on such a basic, yet ephemeral level!
Fantasy is a tad outside of my tastes, but I really enjoy Lewis's writing and human observations. His Christian background often brings in a nice message, too.I can't really claim to have read all of these this year, nor all of them in English (yes, I'm still on my Spanish kick), but they are quality reads and something my Sweetie and I can enjoy together.
I already wrote detailed reviews of this entire series book by book. Some of my favorite books ever by anyone in any genre! Hard to put a date on WHEN I finished the series the first time. I have read them all at least 8 times, including reading all of the books aloud to my girls when they were children...
The magicians nephew is about the history of Narnia. The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe is about the adventures of Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy. Its about the tale of the White Witch and how four children overthrow her. The Horse and His Boy is about the years after the four children and before they return back to Narnia in the book Prince Caspian.
I remember when I first saw the movie poster for the Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe. I couldn't remember anything about the book but it struck such a chord with me, I knew it was one of my childhood favorites. I got the whole set for Christmas and it was so fun and nostalgic to read these books again. I'm a dork, I know...
