https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/814662.Painting_and_Experience_in_Fifteenth_Century_Italy
THE RULE OF THREE This book has as its origins a series of lectures that Michael Baxandall (1933 – 2008) gave at the University of London during the 70s. That may explain that its three chapters do not seem, in a first reading, to follow a unified and continuous line of argument. And yet they do. And they also link in with Baxandall’s proposals in his slightly earlier Giotto and the Orators: Humanist Observers of Painting in Italy and the Discovery of Pictorial Composition. At the core of his w
Some themes, such as the Annunciation, were conceived as part of a complex narrative or “Angelic Colloquy” in which any of its various stages could be discerned: Merit (Meritatio), Disquiet (Conturbatio), Reflection (Cogitatio), Inquiry (Interrogatio), Submission (Humiliatio).Fra Angelico's as Humiliatio.Botticelli's as Conturbatio.For social manners, or the second cultural axis, Baxandall has found several kinds of relevant texts, and in particular the books on dance can make our understanding swing: they taught how movement matched mood and could therefore represent the state of the mind.
In the background of the sentences we might imagine the fiddling with the projector, a sheathe of ordered transparencies, the darkened lecture theatre.Imagination, as it happens, is the theme of the course, an attempt to recreate how a fifteenth-century person, and let us pretend to a vague precision here: a man, the artist or patron and therefore either more educated (in both the sense of practical, experiential learning and formal schooling) wealthy or both than the average, in northern Italy - and most likely in Florence, might have experienced a fifteenth-century painting.That vague precision constitutes my only (current) criticism (view spoiler)[and one I mean only very mildly (hide spoiler)].
Despite the fact that this is an utterly brilliant and original -- and, indeed, an important -- book, I can understand why some have given it 4, or even a mere 3-stars....
that this book reallly should be read by anyone who is interested, not just in Renaissance art, but in cultural history as such -- in the formation of Western man, in fact...It is misleading, as I've said, to argue that Baxandall's is an attempt at the 'social history' of art, as is often done.
sermons and rhetoric.At any rate - this very short and suggestive book is, imo, a *must* (though not always an easy) read.
a must-read for an art history student, regardless of their area of focus.
Excellent look at the business and painterly vocabulary of art in Quattrocento Italy--- how contracts between painter and patron worked, what the economics of paints and canvas and apprentices were like, and what stock gestures and poses said to an urban Italian audience.
"Painting and Experience" brings the best of neo-Marxist analysis to art--- looking at material culture as a base for ideas, looking at the concrete objects behind aesthetics.
Very much worth reading for anyone looking at the history of art or at how to do history through material culture.
This is honestly one of the best books I have read on the subject of Renaissance Art, and should be considered a primer by anyone who is delving into the topic.
It's a short and relatively digestible read, with a numbering system dividing all of the major points.
Baxendall's methodology is an interesting mix of archival dependance and social history.
The book is framed around a quotation describing several Italian artists during the Renaissance; in the beginning he presents the problem of correctly interpreting why these artists were respected.
For anyone interested in understanding the Italian Renaissance, this book is an essential.
Really fun book -- I kept cracking up at some of the primary material, and Baxandall's deadpan critism of Renaissance culture -- eg., on the various ways to calculate volume: "It is a special intellectual world." Also invaluable for deconstructing the semiotics of Renaissance imagery and iconography, for situating the type and content of art created in its proper cultural milieu, and the commoditisation of art as a cultural exchange in the fifteenth century and beyond.
"The first fifteenth century was a period of bespoke painting, however, and this book is about the customer's participation in it." (P.3).
The best painting s often express their culture not just directly but complimentary, because it is by complimenting it that they are best designed to serve public need: the public does not need what it has already got." (P.
Finally, at the conclusion of his analysis of the Italian fifteenth century society through analysis of paintings (as important as written records): The Eye is called the first of all the gatesThrough which Intellect may learn and taste.The Ear is second, with the attentive WordThat and and nourishes the Mind.
Probably the best book on 15th century art, Baxandall is an authority on his subject. He writes clearly and without pretension on what can be a difficult theme. With relevant references to quattrocento texts we are given a true perspective on the artists and the audiences on the meaning of art. One criticism: not enough colour plates.
It's an art's book, that is not hard technical, but broad view, it mixes academic data of the paintings and technique with how's related to everyday life in Reinassance.That makes an interesting book if you like art even if you are not a person with lot of knowledge of the theme.Plus it's short book.
A beautiful, detailed study of how the style of pictures reflect social history of a specific historical history. The way early Renaissance painting evolved mirrors the development of various social institutions.
A very interesting and helpful book, particularly for it's explanation and categorization of images of the Annunciation in Renaissance artwork.
My lecturer mentioned this in three consecutive lectures, which had to be a good endorsement. It was definitely worth reading (it's a relatively easy read, short and well-written) and I'm sure I'll return to it over the next few years of studying.
I just read one chapter, which I had to for my History of Art classes.
Even though it was in French I could understand Baxandall's ideas behind what was written (In some other oeuvres it is really complicated and hard to follow an art historian's way of thinking).
I read the chapter about the contracts, which were made to assure a painter's good work, he had to use a certain kind of material, precise in the contract, otherwise he would not be payed or worse imprisoned.
But it was prove too for the painter on how much he got payed and he could reset the contract if his expanses were higher.
Molto interessante l'esposizione, altrettanto interessanti i molti temi approfonditi. È un libro raffinato senza essere pretenzioso, molto esplicativo e di agevole lettura. Personalmente ho dovuto leggerlo per un esame universitario, ma che credo rileggerei. La pittura italiana del Quattrocento è analizzata sotto molti punti di vista, tutti sociali: l'esperienza sociale, il vissuto sociale dell'uomo rinascimentale, è per Baxandall lo specchio nel quale la pittura e l'arte si riflettono. Di contro la società, come un secondo specchio posto dinnanzi al primo, si specchia nell'arte, e in essa può riconoscersi, infinite volte.
This book was recommended me by a former classmate who claimed it to contain an exposé on the meaning of wrinkles and other physiognomous traits in Italian painting from the Middle Ages and on through the Renaissance and Baroque eras.
As it turns out she must have had some other volume in mind as this book barely touches on physiognomics on a page or two.
It did contain quite a few other interesting tidbits, but since I was reading in search of one thing in particular, wrinkles, disappointment at not finding them may have occluded my appreciation of those other points.
Ce livre révèle les liens étroits entre structures économiques et le monde de l'art à l'époque de la Renaissance: L'une des clés à la compréhension et à l'interprétation des oeuvres réside dans la prise en compte de cet aspect économique, de la relation entre mécène et artiste. Un très bel ouvrage, indispensable comme la plupart de la collection Bibliothèque illustrée des histoires aux Editions Gallimard.
I read this while studying for my A-levels and remember finding it quite thrilling at the time, especially after taking an Easter break in Florence and experiencing a lot of the art discussed first-hand. Now, a quarter-century on, I'm again going to Florence for an Easter break. Can anyone recommend a more recent book that offers a more up-to-date perspective on the Florentine renaissance? I'd be interested to see what has happened in the intervening years.
I don't even like the Renaissance all that much, to be honest, but this is an interesting exploration of some of the underlying themes and ideas of the period. I especially loved the categorization of Annunciation paintings, which initiated a sort of personal obsession with the Annunciation theme in visual art.
I thought this was an excellent book. It is a good few years since I read it, but it has stayed with me. An engaging look at not just the art of the Rennaissance, but also the social and economic climate in which it was made. It sparked myimagination and left me wishing all art history books took this kind of approach. A very stimulating introduction to art in this period.
One of the best books about the Italian Renaissance. Period. Coming in at only 179 pages, this brilliant book had me rummagaing through art pictures re-looking at a number of old masters in a new light. Couldn't believe what I was now seeing that was so obvious before. If you love the Renaissance, do yourself a favor and read this book.
Its only been on my shelves for 15 years, but I finally did get around to reading it. Very interesting way to look at renaissance painting. I wish I read this before visiting Italy.I appreciate art criticism that looks at the world that surrounds the works, I think a myopic focus on the work or the artists is usually not very interesting.
Michael Baxandall has truly written a text encompassing material for those just learning as well as for those well read in art history. I've found the book a very useful reference in writing and teaching, for what he subtitles, "A primer in the social history of pictorial style."
Baxandall demonstrates that art style (rather than merely content) is an appropriate and useful material for social history. He argues that "social facts" contribute to the development of "distinctive visual skills and habits."
Read for class - ridiculously boring
Time to re-read this for a class and I am loving it...more thorough review later...
Needed to read this for a History of Art Essay. Very interesting insights into the Renaissance, and the processes involved in painting.
Influential study of the way in which merchant patronage influenced the composition of Renaissance art.
old favorite
The book excellent for prose
