https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18815644-pontius-pilate
Fantastic book. The only fiction he added was dialog. Every character is historically verified and everything they do has also been verified. We just don't always know what they said behind closed doors. This gives such an important glimpse into the politics behind Pilate's decision.
Dr. Maier has done a creditable job in taking the paucity of available material and constructing a plausible book.
His writing style is not outstanding--rather pedestrian--but his use of historical material is impeccable.
This 'documentary novel' traces Pilate's background, marriage to Procula, posting to Judaea as prefect, then his tenure there and subsequent recall to Rome.
The book posits possible reasons for Pilate's recall to Rome after ten years in Judaea, and gives us some of his subsequent life.
I did like the speculation about Procula's horrific dream--the content--and message to Pilate, also that the Gospel accounts were viewed from a Roman perspective.
Though it necessarily includes some things that cannot be proven historically (such as specific dialogue, whether a particular character may have been present at a certain event, etc.), it also communicates more than can be told in a dictionary or encyclopedia article (such as the feel of life in that world, how characters would have interacted, etc.).
Historical notes are included at the end to indicate the source material for the events and information presented in the book.
This book had a tendency to get bogged down in some of the peripheral dates and events.
Overall it is a unique and helpful way to help you understand the Roman influence and hellenization of the culture in Judea at the time of Jesus.
It gives you good insight into the political tension surrounding the events of Jesus life.
It gives you an empathy for Pilate by humanizing him and letting you see his rationalistic process by which he governed his life.
This is the most important event in human history.
Even Pilate a secular Roman prefect had to admit there was something different about this man.
The politics of the crucifixion were fascinating. Maier does an excellent job of writing a Historical fiction that leans heavily on the side of the historical. Some of my friends and family found in dull. But my husband and I loved it, and chalk it up as one of our favorites. Guess it all depends on what interests you. It's not Gerald Lund but that's what I liked about it. It focused less on the fictional and the sensationalized and more on history.
Paul Maier is amazing at writing an interesting story around TRUE events and people - and making it easily readable for the general public! Seeing Jesus through Pilate's eyes is an unforgettable experience.
Pilate sought to “Romanize” Jerusalem, but not long after he arrives there is talk of a Jew named Jesus “the Christos.” His reputation is of being a “faith healer.” Stories are shared with Pilate about Jesus' activity, and of the Jewish leaders hatred of him.
The documents used in the writing of the book are from Flavius Josephus , Philo, and the New Testament Gospels.The story Pontius Pilate, cannot be told without sharing the story of Jesus' arrest, trial, flogging, crucifixion, and resurrection.
To “see” the story of Jesus, the city of Jerusalem, and the historical events which unfolded during Pilate's tenure, is fascinating and demure.
Reading the Bible, I've always known the list of bad guys: Herod, Pilate, Caiaphas, Judas.Now that I've read this, I understand so much more of the political and social climate that these men lived in and what their motivations were behind this pivotal point in history.
I would recommend this book to anyone who wants to know Jesus better; for me it was a reminder that Jesus was a real man that lived in the real world.
One personal note: I would NOT want to be in Caiaphas' shoes when he stands before the judgement throne!
I read this book back when I was thirteen, but at Pastor Klat's urging decided to re-read it for Lent.
I'm so glad I did!
My vague memories of the book involved a Jewish uprising about shields, a sweet romance between Pilate and his wife, and a centurion named Cornelius.
Pontius Pilate  is, shock of all shocks, a novel about the live of Pontius Pilate.
Well researched, it paints a fascinating picture without getting to preachy, I'd recommend it to anyone, from curious Christians to skeptic atheists.
I think I will take Pasotr Klat's advice and re-read it every Lent, I can't explain it much better.
Books Like This Are Hard To FingAs a fellow Lover of Jesus Christ.
Roman, Gaelic / Celtic to Early British...
Then from Dark ages Britain, to Angelo-Saxon England to the Norman a Conquest of 1066 A.D. to the Plantaganet Dynasty of early Medieval Western Europe....
I've found an Author who Loves the LORD, & Keeps HIS TRUE WORD and knows History and writes the facts first then fills in the story after.I'm going to read this Lover of JESUS'S every Historical Fiction Book he writes....I give this book a 10 out of 10 and look forward to other books he writes...PS...
This was assigned reading for my studies of the history of Christianity. Maier clearly states from the beginning that although this is classified as a historical fiction novel, it's almost a biography in that all the events, and the people he meets who are named, all really existed. The writing wasn't always so good, but Pilate's story was absolutely fascinating. I almost grew to sympathize with him by the end. He was not always fairly treated, and he had to deal with a lot of pressure. 3 stars.
Reading at the bequest of my DH who scorns the novel in favor of The Oxford Classical Dictionary and Tacitus. Though it is technically not a novel, it reads like one, which is such a nice quality in a historical book, for me at least. Eye opening reading about the events surrounding Judea in AD 20s and 30s. The author has an amazing grasp of history and presents it as a silky smooth chain of meaningful events. Dry for a non-historian, juicy for anyone whose husband has the most arid collection of dust and bones he calls books. Bless him.

Maier is a great historian and a very average writer of fiction. It's really too bad that he didn't just write this book as a history of Pilate instead of trying to create historical fiction. The history was fascinating, the fiction ho-hum (and fairly cheesy sometimes).That being said, I enjoyed it much more than I thought I might. Seeing the Gospels from a Roman perspective was refreshing and anchored the stories of the faith in historical time. This benefit, alone, was worth an extra star.I don't know if I'd recommend it but I'm glad I read it.
One of my favorite books EVER! Maier masterfully weaves factual historical detail and every Bible verse together to put you in the life of Pontius Pilate. He uses historical characters and adds dialogue that brings to life the historical facts and the Scriptures. The Scriptures will gain power as you understand the animosity between the Jews and the Romans and why John the Baptist's head was served up on a platter. I read this book almost every year.
An excellent book for the Christian. It gives the Roman side of the crucifixion. It gives deeper insight into why things happened the way they did. Many things we think were cowardly were really politically motivated - perhaps they are one in the same - perhaps.
Maier is one of my favorite historical fiction writers. He is so accurate and fluent in superb ideas and ways of conveying the concepts and story lines of his books. This book for me was excellent.
A documentary novel, Pontius Pilate strives to be historically accurate while at the same time flowing like a novel.
The life of Jesus Christ on earth does not receive much page-time, at least not directly; but at the same time, the entire book is focused on that one encounter between Roman governor and Jewish King, the event securing Pilate’s name in history.
In general, that is the tone that Maier takes when dealing with Pontius Pilate; that of a rational man caught up in an irrational age (that is not to say that the time was full of nonsense, simply that reason did not play as large a role then as it does today).
This book gave the Gospel a swift undercurrent of political subversion with the pantomime of those who are "Contrary to All men" - 1 Thessalonians 2:15.
Through the eyes of Pilate hands tied, he had no exit other than to wash them.
Whatever became of Pontius Pilate ?
Preceding generations who knew little of a Caesar or Tiberius would confess the creed of two important names, stamped in the pages of history "I believe in Jesus Christ who who suffered under Pontius Pilate".
Excellent book !
I'm not usually a fan of historical fiction, but this book was excellent.
Not a detail was left out, constructing a full portrait of the New Testament period.
It helped to clear up my questions about some of the traditions and the setting of the era.
It's well-paced and interesting.
The first third of the book is all world building, while the rest contains all the action.
I don't usually like books based in politics, but Maier managed to make it interesting.
He also somehow made Pilate a sympathetic character, which was a new way to view him.
Maier is a professor of Ancient History emeritus at Western Michigan University and the author of over 30 books of historical fiction and fact.
The copy I read was the third edition of this facinating work of fiction.The Christian Herald referred to the book as, "...the story of the ambitious and successful Roman politician whose fateful verdict forever changes the course of history--but whose conscience could never rest with the consequences." I could not think of a more accurate summary of this awesome work!If you haven't read it yet, I strongly recommend you include it in your Christian studies.
I really enjoyed this book. It was obviously well researched, giving a lot of interesting historical background to the Gospel accounts of Jesus' brief time on Earth. There were a few moments where the desire to insert historical information interrupted the flow of the novel, and a few moments where I wish the author had explained what a certain term or custom was, but overall it was a good read with some great suggestions of the character Pilate might have been. I'd recommend it to anyone who wants a better understanding of that time period.
This novel was researched quite well, and was also entertaining. I learned a great deal about Pilate that I had never heard of. It seems he is so often painted as someone so evil, but this book paints as a true politician who wasn’t as terrible as I had previously thought. Any book that can combine Biblical events with Roman history is a book worth reading ☺️
I really love this author's writing style and appreciate the time he takes to research the history he is writing about. This book, at least for me, tells a more complete story of the politics and key players during the life of Jesus. It's an even more intriguing situation after reading this book. Highly recommend to anyone that loves historical novels .
If there is no evidence then it is purely speculation (fiction). The bible is not a book about history but is a part of history (unless you're bias). Written well enough for three stars. The majority of the latter half's source material is the bible whereas the majority of the first half's source material comes from reliable contemporary historians.
I read this because my children are reading it for school. I was very surprised to be sucked in. If you are into historical fiction, the story of the crucifixion, Rome, etc..., this would be a good read for you.
Best book so far on Pilate...If anyone knows of other books on him, that are good, please, drop me message....
Ziemlich langweilig. Den zweiten Stern gibt es nur, weil einiges der Bibel entnommen wurde. Ich habe es nicht zu Ende gelesen.
An interesting novel from the Roman perspective. It is the story of Pilate's life. It gives an depth look at the trial and crucifixion of Jesus, as well as some history within the Roman Empire.
Enorme aanrader voor in de 40 dagentijd !
