https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158516.The_Twelve_Chairs
Foreword and NotesTranslator's Introduction--The Twelve ChairsTranslator's Notes
A particular scene from the book comes to mind - of Ilf and Petrov getting lyrical about a spring Sunday in Moscow and young people going to the flea market to purchase a mattress - a symbol of status in an impoverished neighborhood, but also of love and hope for the future.The plot i think it is known : the ailing mother-in-law of the main actor (Ippolit Matveyevich Vorobyaninov, a.k.a. Pussy) confesses on her death bed that she has hidden a treasure in jewelry inside one walnut chair - one of twelve that were later appropriated by the communist authorities.
They were born when they were born.”The marvellous events of The Twelve Chairs are taking place after the final victory of historical materialism in one, separately taken country.Our heroes, who classically may be called picaros – like those of classical picaresque novels – are treasure hunters, the unbelievable tandem of a wedding swindler Ostap Bender and a former nobleman Ippolit Matveyevich Vorobyaninov.In the first side street Ippolit Matveyevich leaned against Liza and began to paw her.
Origem do exemplar: Biblioteca. Língua da edição lida: Português. Tradução: Excelente.Género: Ficção; literatura; romance; sátira. Avaliação: Excelente. Uma sátira fabulosa (à la Gógol) com uma personagem icónica da literatura russa e soviética (Ostap Bénder). Excelente tradução de Nina e Filipe Guerra.
I'm almost ashamed for not enjoying this book a lot more, but I suppose I've read it too late.
I was amazed to discover that some of the observations are valid even today - some things never change, it seems.Yet, the language was a little bit outdated and there were so many digressions from the main subject that I started to lose interest.
It felt like Ilf and Petrov wanted to cover all the flaws of Russian society in a single book - an honorable feat nonetheless.
You should read this book, don't mind my rating.
It really has some solid things to say.
All my life this was the funniest book I have ever read. Once a year or two I would revisit it and double up instantly in helpless mirth. Because of this book I can pinpoint with accuracy the year I matured - it was the year I reread the book and realized that in spite of it playfull wittiness, it described a crushingly depressive vision of humanity. The last time I reread this book I didn't laugh once. I only cringed and groaned. Still brilliant, but suddenly not so lighthearted at all.Good thing there's Tom Sharpe left.
Krieviski gan, manuprāt, šī frāze izklausās vēl labāk, tomēr tieši ar šo frāzi man asociējas šis romāns.
Tomēr, kad uzzināju, ka Zvaigzne ABC ir izdevusi šo darbu pilnībā ar komentāriem, uzreiz gribējās izlasīt šo grāmatu.Domāju, ka katram, kurš kaut vai nedaudz ir lasījis, šī grāmata ir pazīstama.
Ir arī konkurents tēvs Fjodors, kurš par briljantiem uzzinājis pirmsnāves grēksūdzē.Šī grāmatas izdevuma lielākie plusi ir: pirmkārt – priekšvārds, kas lasītājam ieskicē grāmatā aprakstītā laika reālijas.
Tas viss piešķir grāmatas lasīšanas procesam papildus dimensiju, tu esi ne tikai labi izsmējies, bet arī nedaudz izglītojies.Ja vēl neesi šo grāmatu lasījis, tad tas noteikti ir jāizdara.
According to a twenty-something friend who recently immigrated to the U.S. from Russia, this 1927 satirical-comic novel is still so popular in Russia that not only has everyone read it (on their own—not in school!) but everyone quotes from it in their everyday speech.
The only thing remotely comparable I can think of in America is cult classic movie quotes.
Yet somehow this cynical send-up of the wild goose chase we call life manages to be almost as light on its feet as Ostap Bender, the clever trickster of a protagonist—whom I hated, but couldn’t help hating less than all the other even more contemptible greed-and-vanity-driven characters.
ძალიან ვიკაიფე ამ წიგნით.მთავარი ხაზის, განძის ძიების მიღმა თუ გავიხედებით, აღმოვაჩენთ რომ ხალხის დაბოლების მასტერკლასებს ატარებს ბატონი ბენდერი. ამ წიგნის კითხვისას კიდევ ერთხელ დავინახავთ თუ როგორ გვაჭმევენ გაიძვერა, მოხერხებული ავანტურისტები გონებაჩლუნგ საზოგადოებას აბსურდულ იმედებს - ოსტაპ ბენდერი თავისი ჭადრაკის საპლანეტათშორისო კონგრესით ერთ კუანა ქალაქში და დიდი სიკეთის მთესველი "მახვილისა და სახნისის კავშირით", სააკაშვილი ლაზიკათი და სხვა ქარიზმატული და უიმედო წამოწყებებით, ბიძო "უფასო ფულით" და ჩვენი ტრაკების ლოკვის დაპირებით, ბაბუ პატრიარქი ერთმორწმუნე, ჩვენზე მზრუნველი რუსეთით და სხვა სიბრძნეებით.

I enjoyed it even more then being more mature and paying more attention to details and very beautiful language constructions.Unfortunately, I can't tell you anything about the translation.
The original uses a pretty complex language constructions but the humour should be understandable perfectly well in a translation I think, of course you are probably going to miss some rather subtle details, but the main human sins of every man in every state are portrayed rather well (a greedy priest and Kisa, cowardly 'fighters for the revolution', large numbers of not very honest men who are conned by Ostap who plays on their dishonesty, some 'bright fashionable things' like Ellochka and other bright images).
A thousand kind of people are living in this book.
Rich, poor, old, young, crafty, deceived, brave, coward, intellectual, ignorant...
Ilf and Petrov succesfully and colorfully portrays one of the most important passions of mankind, "getting rich".
Their depiction of "a thousand kind of" people with humorous language (this kind of humour created laughter storms in my home every night!) makes you wanna go to U.S.S.R of 1920's and see what's happening around there to impress authors about writing this book.
A must read, especially for who finds pleasure in humorous works and needs fun time by reading.
L'ho finito, e riesco solo a pensare "meno male che ho già preso il secondo volume in biblioteca".La storia forse non è originalissima, come detto anche nell'introduzione, ma lo svolgimento è perfetto.
Più di una volta ho sorriso o ridacchiato in pubblico e in privato, attirando lo sguardo confuso di quei pendolari che non sanno tramutare il tempo di viaggio in tempo di lettura (poverini!).Che la letteratura russa sapesse farmi piangere è assodato, che sappia anche farmi ridere è una piacevolissima scoperta.
Non c'è aspetto della vita sovietica, dalla burocrazia alle guide di viaggio, che non venga sapientemente commentata.
I tried. I really tried. But after reading half of this, I must concede defeat. I cannot endure it. Perhaps if I was north of sixty and born and raised in an unknown town in the Soviet Union it would be different. Perhaps if the translation was better. Perhaps if the sun was vermillion and the sky brown. Perhaps if we drank meat and sliced wine. Perhaps if we walked on our hands and picked fruit with our toes. Alas...
All the time it was going so nice, so funny, but then the ending...!!! OMG! First I thought I've misunderstood something, after third time rereading all I can say: F you Ilya Ilf, F you! I still cant believe it! Not Bender! Please!But I can't give it less than 5 (though i have to try to forget 'THE ENDING'), pure humour, loved it.
When you hear me say: "Don't tell me how to live," you hear me quotethis book. You might need to know a little about Russian history to enjoy this, or not. Times were tough, money was scarce, and Moscow was having a housing crisis. You're prepared. Go read it.
Dov'è la 6^ stellina quando serve?
Ну в общем я рад, что прочитал "Двенадцать Стульев" именно сейчас, после прочтения Булгакова и Довлатова (скорее всего, очень многие сравнивают "Мастера и Маргариту" с этой книгой, для меня сатира тут намного сильнее, хотя периоды разные, но нотка советского абсурда гениальна и тут и там, мне просто Остап очень сильно понравился, поэтому и полюбил это произведение больше).
Думаю, так же будет и в Киргизии, Узбекистане и в других бывших союзных республиках.Все это очень странно и эфемерно и никак не поддаётся более или менее внятной концептуализации - я не понимаю, что конкретно я хочу всем этим сказать, просто делюсь мыслями тут.
Ilf and Petrov started off writing short humourous pieces for Soviet newspapers.
The quest plot of The Twelve Chairs gave them a loose format that allowed them to write it as a series of fairly short comic incidents.
Despite the ending, Ilf and Petrov did go on to write a sequel The Golden Calf.My copy of this is shabby down at heel 1993 edition, paper discoloured, hardcover coming away.
Ilk 150 sayfasını okudum ve çoook eğlenceli buldum kitabı.
Rus yazar hayranlığım bu kitapla daha da artti.Kitap bittikten sonra gelen duzeltme: Rus edebiyatını sevmenin verdiği rahatlıkla çok eğlenerek ve keyifle okudum ama itiraf etmeliyim ki kitabın eğlenceli yani haliyle biraz eski moda.
Rusça dan çeviri diyince aklımda yazar adı gibi kazınmış tek bir isim var o da Mazlum Beyhan'dir.
12 Sandalye onun çevirisi olmamasına rağmen bence çok başarılı bir çeviri olmuş.
Kitaptan bağımsız olarak yazım hataları var ve bu çoook rahatsız edici bir düzeye ulaştı bende.
Kitabın baş karakteri Ostap Bender in adının dahi yer yer yanlış yazıldığı yerler var kitap içinde.
A sure sign of a great novel is its ability to enthrall and entertain the reader over and over again, withstanding multiple rereads over the years.
Twelve Chairs by Ilf and Petrov is such a novel for me.
I've read it so many times, I'm pretty sure I can recite particular passages from memory.
This is a tragicomedic gem from the literary giants of post-revolutionary Soviet Russia that reflects cultural and economic atmosphere of the time with wit and ease of a true virtuoso.
OK, now that was just plain old... fun.A bit dated, sure. But it's very easy to see why it's become a classic; not only is it laugh-out-loud-in-public funny, but with some brilliant settings and character work too, all circling around a huckster character who'll sell people any get-rich-quick scheme or political/philosophical utopia with the same bravado. Almost as if there wasn't really a huge difference between appealing to Mammon or Lenin when it comes to getting people to think they're doing something for themselves while someone else profits. Huh.
I love Russian satire from the late imperial and early Soviet period. It's basically a picaresque - Ostap Bender is a rogue who knows Soviet society so deeply and truly that he can exploit it for his own gain. Voryobaninov is dragged along (well, mostly :-) and everyone else is basically a caricature - but what brilliant caricatures! I&P do for the Soviet period what Gogol did for the Imperial - basically, show that nothing's changed.
I read this in Russian years ago. While it's absolutely hilarious in its native language, the translation works just fine, too. To really appreciate, however, you'll need to have a decent grasp of Russian culture and humor, specifically during the Soviet era. I loved this enough that let's put it this way... I have a cat named Ostap. :D
… Grazie alla statistica si sa quanto e quale cibo mangia in un anno un cittadino medio della repubblica.
Si sa quanta vodka in media beve in un anno quello stesso cittadino medio, con indicazione approssimativa del suo consumo di antipasti.
La statistica ha informazioni esatte non solo sul numero di dentisti, salumieri, siringhe, portieri, registi cinematografici, prostitute, tetti di paglia, vedove, campane e cocchieri, ma sa persino quanti statistici ci sono nel paese.C’è un’unica cosa che la statistica non sa.Non sa quante sedie ci siano nell’URSS.Il risultato è un libro pieno d’ironia e di comicità: si legge facilmente e ti trascina in tante situazioni paradossali che non ti fanno smettere fino al finale… travolgente!Attenzione a non leggere la parte introduttiva prima dell’inizio del racconto: rivela troppo e rovina il finale!
Is this one of the works that are untranslatable like Eugene Onegin, I'm not sure. Could be. Ostap Bender is now one of my favourite characters. I've suspicion he might be a sociopath, someone you would wish to avoid in real life but as fictional character it's hard not to like him. He is very charming. Osip Shor (Осип Шор) - the prototype of Ostap Bender. Interesting personality. Free audiobook available here. Password: Bibe.ru.
Vorobyaninov goes out in search of these twelve chairs, quickly teaming up with a conman named Ostap Bender, and together they go after the hidden jewels.That is a heck of an intriguing plot, and authors Ilya Ilf & Evgeny Petrov know it.
Beyond entertainment, this book paints a picture of life in the Soviet Union during 1920s, and you'll probably find a hundred or more references to Russian items, people, and historical events that you've never heard of before, even if you're a fan of Russian literature.One flaw, however, is that at times the characters do not act consistently, making it feel as though the story is being pushed forward inorganically.
So funny I was laughing out loud in public places, not giving a damn, but also that fucking ending... I don't know if I should laugh or cry now.
Uno di questi è Ippolit Vorob'janinov, ex maresciallo della nobiltà e ora semplice impiegato dell’anagrafe, rassegnato al suo umile ruolo sino a quando la suocera, in punto di morte, gli svela di aver nascosto i propri gioielli del valore di 15.000 rubli in una delle dodici sedie del loro salotto, confiscato dai rivoluzionari e poi riassegnato ad altri proprietari.
Per Ippolit Vorob'janinov questa rivelazione rappresenta l’occasione per il suo riscatto sociale e decide di recuperare le sedie con un inseguimento che lo porterò da Stargorod (in Ucraina) al Caucaso e poi di nuovo indietro sino alle rive del Baltico, passando e ripassando per Mosca.
(Нет, я не говорю про "Вечером деньги, утром стулья", происхождение которого я знала и ранее.) Теперь многие из них приобретают бОльший смысл для меня, зная оригинальный контекст: "Лёд тронулся, господа присяжные заседатели, лёд тронулся!", "Дело помощи утопающим — дело рук самих утопающих.", "Есть еще от жилетки рукава, круг от бублика и мертвого осла уши", "Кто скажет, что это девочка, пусть первый бросит в меня камень", "Молодая была уже не молода", "Остапа несло" и т.п.
Не было еще в те времена голливудских фильмов-экшенов и тем более такого рода книг, это, можно сказать, основы приключенческо-авантюрного жанра (всякие друзья Оушена или коллеги из Миссия невополнима просто курят в сторонке).
Ну все, а теперь можно и фильм посмотреть :)
