https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/764749.Fire_on_the_Mountain
Wonderful book, I can certainly see why "Fire on the Mountain" is considered a classic Western too.Set in the early 1960's rancher John Vogelin now in his 70's is having a hard time adjusting to the modern changes affecting the ranch that has been in his family since the 1800's.
Told from the POV of Billy, Vogelin's young grandson visiting for the summer from Philadelphia, Vogelin takes on everyone from the county Sheriff to the U.S. Air Force and refuses to leave his land.
The story is pretty basic: John Vogelin's ranch lies right next to the White Sands Missile Range and The Government needs to expand its territory (in the interests of national security to fight those scary Russkies).
There's just something about the high desert that is absofuckinglutely beautiful and Abbey's descriptions of the mountains, sand, yuccas, sunrises, sunsets, and wildlife were vivid and dead-on.
But the Irony was screaming throughout - the land which Vogelin is fighting so hard to keep was stolen from the Apaches by settlers like his own father (with help from The Government).
But Abbey drew me in and I enjoyed reading this not-overly-drawn-out novel.Simply put, a young man from Philadelphia visits his Grandfather's New Mexico ranch on summer vacation.
The ranch is about to be incorporated into the White Sands Missile Range, and the Grandfather refuses to sell under any condition.
So much so that his inability to recognize the advances of modern medicine may well have cost him his life when he passed in March of 1989 due to complications of esophageal hemorrhaging.Maybe because I am a fan of the western genre set in today's times draws me to writers like Abbey, and to a lesser extent Cormac McCarthy.
Much has changed since Abbey wrote Fire on the Mountain. Would he have written the same novel in 2018 after having witnessed armed militias repeatedly face off with federal officers at places like Malheur and Bunkerville? I have my doubts. Fire on the Mountain is beautifully written, but it’s difficult to identify with a protagonist who reminds you so much of Cliven Bundy.
one of the worst books I have ever read
I've (unfortunately) only managed to read this and 'The Monkey Wrench Gang' up to this point in my life.
In the interest of national security, the government is hoping to build a missile range in the midst of John Vogelin's ranch.
Vogelin is what the Bundy's wish they were: a man of integrity and character who sticks to his guns (and probably pays his taxes to boot).
Billy lives the life every 12 year old boy wishes he could live, and Lee holds the middle ground between old world and new.
I enjoyed this classic book very much. Set in the southewest, old man on his land for his entire life is being moved off to make room for more military space near White Sands, New Mexico. Classic story. Very much a budding envirinmental, anti establishment tale. The characters are very believable. Same story has played out in many forms as our country has grown and changed.
At a deeper level it also reminds us that America may be the home of the brave but is no more the land of the free than China is, especially when the government wants your land, and these are important lessons from the book.Now let's get to the execution.
And as for the old man, even though we feel sorry for his plight, he comes across as a bit of an intransigent ass for not taking the generous settlement offered, moving onto another chapter of his life and leaving a dying ranch.As for the "fire on the mountain," the book's concluding scene, I think it was a bit overdone and melodramatic.
Billy's parents who live in the East send him off to live with his grandfather each summer during his vacation from prep school.
During these times, Billy learns more about life and how things really work and becomes fiercely loyal to his grandfather.What becomes apparent to me after reading this book is that it is often difficult to separate a person from a place.
The attachment becomes so great that the person will go to any length to preserve the connection.
The land for this area was taken away from the original owners who had only a very short time to vacate.
The US wants to expand it's nuclear test grounds to include the ranch and the grandfather will not stand for it.
wait, I already said that- anyway- the story is enhanced in that the reader is allowed to interpret events for themselves along with the boy rather than be presented with the adult perspective which would tend to be more set (not necessarily of course but generally IMO)In any event- when you include Abbey's style, sensibilities, and sense of humor you end up with a great book.
I hated this book!
Though I admit the book is well written, it is just not to my taste.
Part of the problem is that the descriptions in this novel is supposed to help us understand the love that the protagonist has for the desert country that his grandfather inhabits.
I have lived in two deserts, and I have no love for such land.
I can only accept that there are people who have such love for desert.
I cannot sympathize.
This makes the character one that is not easy to sympathize with.
If so, they will possibly enjoy the book more than I did.
I didn't know quite what to expect when picking up this book. Turned out I really liked the authors style and am moving on to reading the Monkey Wrench Gang. This was a western of sorts, but set in the 1900s. I found this title while reading Neil Peart'book Ghost Rider: Travels on the Healing Road. Because Kindle when reading on one of their devices gives you a link to a book if its actually in their library. I found a ton of books I want to read now because of reading that one book by Peart.
Classic Abbey ! The government infringing on the rights of the individual - and the individual fights back in their own way. A precursor to "The Monkey Wrench Gang" and a warm hearted family drama that exhibits Abbey's love of the land and in particular the desert landscape of the southwest that is a constant in his writing. Short, sweet and a solid 4 stars!!
I enjoyed this tale of standing up to our tyrannical no longer for the people government. The old man embodies many who would rather die than surrender their home to a thieving government using falsehoods to further the death march across the world that the US fuels with lies and treachery.
Really good book. I was annoyed by the corniness of the relationships to the kid (who;s telling the book from his pov), but after a bit, I found it to be a very good solid book. Would recommend to those who have a country background, or are interested in the environment, or are 'tough guys.'
Me ha gustado más por fuera que por dentro, la verdad. Ha envejecido regular el rollo Defiendo Mi Rancho Del Estado. Y que es más simple que un botijo el libro, vamos. ¡Mucho desierto y montañas, eso sí!
I love the way he described the sights, sounds and smells of the West. Made me feel as if I were there.
I really enjoyed this book. While I don't agree with everything that the book stands for, I can't help but feel a large camaraderie with the old man and young boy.

Fire on the Mountain depicts Vogelin’s struggle to preserve his New Mexico ranch as told through the eyes of his grandson, Billy, who lives each school year in the city, high on the expectation of returning to his grandfather’s ranch for a summer of living the cowboy life.
In the vivid light each rock and tree and cloud and mountain existed with a kind of force and clarity that seemed not natural but supernatural.” So does Fire on the Mountain begin with Billy’s view of this rugged land, this “country of dreams.” Billy’s mother has no love for the ranch, but for Billy, like his grandfather, the place is in his DNA.
But Abbey also translated his love of the West and his environmental activism into novels like The Brave Cowboy, The Monkey Wrench Gang and Hayduke Lives.
The narration by Vogelis' grandson, Billy, is effective, providing sentimental insight into the grandfather's attachment to his way of life, an education in the beauty of the desert and an indoctrination into the activist defiance of the government that threatens their livelihoods.One may never make it to the many canyons, rivers and high deserts described in Abbey's books but reading his non-fiction and novels is possibly the best compensation you can ask for.
He sat on the porch and talked to him once more.
And while he was doing this, his grandson Billy fetched them ice water.
I wouldn't call this a young adult novel, even though Billy's twelve and he's the narrator.
All he ever does is fetch ice water for people.
I've heard people wonder why characters in young adult literature talk back/sneak off/run away/make their own decisions.
At least a third of his dialogue consists of the phrase "Yes, sir." The only thing I liked about him was his name: Billy Vogelin Starr.
I couldn't figure out why Billy was ever in the story.
It's a book about the desert of New Mexico.
The narrator in the book named Billy, a 12-year old grandson of John Vogelin - New Mexico rancher of Box V Ranch, tells the story about man vs.
government, man vs.
However, that summer is turning point for Billy, John and other characters in the book.
John stands up to the United State Government about the property expansion by seizing his property.
John refuses to give up his property for the government as he wishes to see his life ends on his own property rather than move out to elsewhere.
His grandson, Billy, tells the end of New Mexico rancher John Vogelin’s life.
Billy’s annual summer visit to the Box V Ranch is disrupted by the United States.
The government seizes the ranch to expand the White Sands Missile Range.
Despite the arguments of his friend, Lee Mackie and the increasing show of force demonstrated by courts, law enforcement and military, John Vogelin refuses to leave his former property, a decision that leads to his death.
The fire in the title is his funeral pyre.
His descriptions of the New Mexico landscape are precise and beautiful.
The story in this book is both dated and contemporary.
(I could be wrong.) It is also contemporary because the feds can still come and take away your land at any time because of their projects, be it roads, military bases, national parks, etc...
Fire on the Mountain looks at this issue from the perspective of the home owner without falling into sentimentality.
Abbey concedes that fundamentally all land is stolen no matter how far back you go and no matter how you look at it but he focuses on the loss suffered by those from whom land is stolen.
In "Fire on the Mountain," Abbey created three static characters and a minimal plot to rhapsodize about anarchy, love for land, and strength of character.As is par for the course for Abbey, the writing has its weak spots, but it is punctuated by unvarnished beauty and lyricism.
He's always at his best when straining to communicate his crochety, hermetic brand of love for the desert, and he takes plenty of time during this one-sitting read to do so.This grumpy, freewheeling ode to freedom is like listening to an old man tell stories.
Even if they're imperfect or repetitive, there's something reorienting and enjoyable about it.
I knew what to expect when I started reading, and Abbey provided it.
Abbey book I've read.
Never really thought of giving him a try, but am glad that I did.
The descriptions through the grandson's eyes of the desert southwest, and the grandfather and Lee's unique perspective of how life fits together there were wonderful.
Brought to the surface the differences between those who live in a place for no other reason than 'just because' -- just because they have a job there, or some obligation (as could be said for the military people at White sands, or any one of the number of bureacrats that are thrown into the grandfather's life) versus because they have a connection to the land (through history, an appreciation of its unique beauty, etc.).I only wish it had lasted longer than an hour and a half.
Modern western novel, set in New Mexico near White Sands.
Very anti-gov, anti-modernism, anti-change.
The view point was of a 12 yr old boy who idealizes his grumpy, non-conforming cowboy grandfather.
If it wasn't for the down-to-earth, even-headed best friend, this book would have been too 'angry' for me.
Of course, that was the intent of Abbey and because of this it seemed like he made the grandfather as angry as he wanted.
The book inspires one to ask questions, even when they have hard answers (if there are any answers).
as i believe white sands to be one of the most majestic places on earth, fire on the mountain resonated deeply. told from the perspective of a twelve year-old boy visiting his grandfather during a summer vacation, abbey excoriates the encroachment of the military onto civilian land (too, the intrusion of civilization upon as yet unspoiled terrain). in the novel (as in present day new mexico), there is a striking contrast between the incomparable serenity of white sands and the stark ferocity of the adjoining missile range. ed abbey's writing, like the landscape he cherished, is austere yet arresting.
