https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9592.Mother_Night
However, Howard had actually been recruited before the war began to be an American spy who provided vital intelligence to the Allies via codes hidden in his frequent radio broadcasts.
As he explains what happened before, during and after the war Howard repeatedly touches on the unasked question that haunts his life: Does pretending to be evil in the service of a good cause still make you evil?I had always felt alone in thinking that his was actually Vonnegut’s best book so I was happy to be validated by the comments of several other Goodreaders sharing the same thought.
However, I must say that "Mother Night" is a good novel.
Campbell Junior is an American playwright emigrated to Germany of the Third Reich, become the symbol as well as the radio personality of Nazi propaganda.
Tuttavia devo ammettere che Madre Notte è un bel romanzo.
Campbell Junior, commediografo americano emigrato nella Germania del terzo Reich, simbolo nonché voce radiofonica della propaganda nazista, ci narra le sue memorie da un carcere israeliano, in attesa di essere processato per crimini contro l'umanità.
La riflessione personale sulla guerra da parte dell'autore è interessante, e interessanti sono i percorsi mentali del protagonista che definiscono l'epilogo del romanzo.Voto: 7
Vastly underrated piece of black comedy, about a World War 2 double agent whose cover is a Nazi propagandist in the style of Lord Haw-Haw. Vonnegut says in the preface that this is the only one of his books where he knows what the moral is.
For my money, Vonnegut's second best book, running  Cat's Cradle very close.It's not just me - the great Doris Lessing also wrote once that she couldn't quite understand why this book wasn't more famous.
Her speculation was that the literary world simply refuses to take anything seriously that is first published in paperback.
To put it simply, this is some good stuff.Sitting in an Israeli jail and writing his memoirs, Howard Campbell awaits trial for war crimes as a Nazi in World War II.
Howard's American handler even claims Campbell "was one of the most vicious sons of bitches who ever lived" (188).
A man who is skilled with words and at shaping the perceptions of others, it's important to remember that, in this metafiction, it is Howard Campbell writing his own life's story.
Howard Campbell may be a fiction created by the man himself, a constantly shifting personality recreating himself to fit the times in which he lives.
19th century Nativists, Know-Nothings, Klansmen, Red Shirts, White Leaguers, and Constitutional Unionists invented fake news long before the John Birch Society, Glenn Beck, Lou Dobbs or the alt-Right of Steve Bannon claimed that mass media routinely hide the truth about immigrants, Jews, and Blacks.
It seems like the prototype of every American right wing populist lunatic from Huey Long to Father Coughlin finds his place somewhere in Mother Night.
One can only hope for similar personal revelations to the mass of Americans who have fallen for the latest version of fake news.
It is the fictional memoirs of Howard W.
Campbell also appears briefly in Vonnegut's later novel Slaughterhouse-Five.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و هشتم ماه دسامبر سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: شب مادر؛ نویسنده: کورت ونه گات جونیور؛ مترجم: علی اصغر بهرامی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، روشنگران و مطالعات زنان، 1380، در 240 ص، شابک: 9789645512987؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 مداستان هاوارد کمپبل است که در پایان جنگ جهانی نخست به آلمان رفت و سپس به عنوان مبلغ نازی‌ها فعالیت کرد.
این رمان از زبان خود کمپبل روایت شده‌ است.
He is an evil, dangerous man who is undoubtedly guilty of high treason.Or is he?As the account of Campbell’s life in Germany unfolds, much is revealed about his motives, the benign sequence of events leading to his becoming a member of the Nazi Party, and the identity of the actual organization from which he draws his paycheck: United States intelligence.
He is an American hero, wrongly accused and undoubtedly deserving of complete exoneration.Or is he?The distinction here between villain and hero is a line that is wonderfully blurred by Vonnegut, who delivers his story with perfunctory prose and offers up one surprising twist after another until the novel’s depressing conclusion.
That’s all rather curious, but I’m still not entirely convinced.I should point out that, while it is rather surprising to get a straight forward narrative from Mr. Vonnegut, for the uninitiated, this may actually be his most accessible novel.Our narrator is Howard W.
Throughout the story, he’s rescued from prosecution time and again by his handler/“Blue Fairy Godmother.” But in the end he chooses to stand trial—not as much for war crimes as for crimes against his own conscience.While this started off as a pretty solid three to four star read for me, the last quarter of the book is true genius.
In Stanley Kubrik's film, Full Metal Jacket, one of the most highlighted scenes is where the protagonist is asked to explain the peace symbol and "Born to Kill" slogan on his helmet.
His response:“I think I was trying to suggest something about the duality of man.” Cannot help but wonder if the writer for Full Metal Jacket had been thinking of Mother Night when he wrote that line.
One of the darker novels in Vonnegut’s collection, but still with the humor and blithely irreverent tone that is his trademark, Mother Night asks a lot of questions and leaves many unanswered, inviting deep introspection for the reader and for our society as a whole.
In Mother Night, the story of an American spy working undercover within Germany during WWII as a Nazi propagandist, Vonnegut intentionally portrays his main character with so much ambivalence that by the end you're not sure whether to root for or against him.
In other Vonnegut books I understand and sympathized with the self doubt his characters felt, but in some cases their struggles felt light to me.
So perhaps one day, maybe when I turn 50, I will reread Player Piano and it will rocket from my least favorite to most favorite of all of Kurt Vonnegut's wonderful novels, but for right now Mother Night stays there.
Before launching into the novel proper, Vonnegut introduces Mother Night as the only story of his with a moral he knows: "We are what we pretend to be, so we must be careful about what we pretend to be." He then spends 269 pages proving what a haunting, damning and dangerous moral it is, with enough self-awareness and dark jocularity to keep this tale -- the fictional memoirs of Howard W.
Vonnegut may have showed his hand early in terms of the overriding moral of Mother Night, though he peppers his novel with less emphasized though equally important truths that make the human condition a flawed but beautiful thing.
The two aspects of Howard Campbell's personality that Vonnegut wants to underline here are : his willing participation in the creation of the Nazi propaganda materials (he never denies being the author of the reprehensible materials) and his refuge from dealing with the morality of these actions by in the love for his wife.
I can't believe that they mark the end or the beginning of anything of real concern to the human soul.
Nobody knows Campbell was a US spy during the war, and he is wanted for war crimes for the hatred he instigated through his broadcasts.Credit Englishmajeure.comMother Night is different from the five other Vonnegut books* I have read.
I suppose Campbell is not meant to be a likable protagonist, I like him anyway, he is very pitiful and his biggest mistake is that he is too good at his job, both as a spy and a Nazi propagandist.
The chief moral of the story seems to be that if you pretend to be someone evil and despicable and you do too good a job of it, you will eventually become that character you pretend to be.
I've always considered Vonnegut to be one of my favourite writers but I keep forgetting to read his books.Mother Night is quite a different novel from what you'd expect with Vonnegut.
Campbell Jr., an American accused of being a Nazi due to his radio broadcasts from Germany during the war.
Maybe Campbell was a Nazi.
We'll never know.I've been somewhat critical of Vonnegut's penchant for fractures narratives before.
I find everything I have to say can be summed up by simply stating 'it is good'.
Everybody else, no matter what side he was on, no matter what he did, is sure a good man could not have acted in any other way."Poor Howard Campbell, Jr., an American living in Germany, is recruited to spew on air Nazi propaganda that is laced with coded information for the Allies."You'll be volunteering right at the start of the war to be a dead man.
Some authors can take themes like war, injustice, cruelty and suffering, and turn them into good fiction.
Mother Night is the best Kurt Vonnegut novel I’ve read (though that’s not saying much as I’ve always thought he was overrated).
I liked reading Howard’s journey from famous playwright to secret agent in Nazi Germany to the dark and tense post-war years trying to live under the radar in New York.
The only part of the novel that didn’t work for me was the nuanced depth Vonnegut attempts.
Is Howard irredeemable because of his disguise as a Nazi propagandist or is it acceptable because he was really working for the Allies?
Having finally read this, I have to agree with my little sis, and say this is my second favorite Vonnegut book.He backs into this read, starting the story with the moral: "We are what we pretend to be, so we must be careful about what we pretend to be." Howard Campbell proceeds to narrate his story from inside an Israeli jail cell, where he is about to be tried for war crimes, "I am an American by birth, a Nazi by reputation, and a nationless person by inclination." The book examines moral ambiguity, and in true Vonnegut style, provokes the reader to a powerful, and emotional indictment against the crimes of complacency, apathy, and omission.
If we somehow unconsciously know that this is the book we need and pick it up and let it take us places.
All I know is this particular book came into my life at the most opportune moment.
Some people simply, no matter what you do or how it's presented, don't see that what they've done is a bad thing.
I say yes, but it is difficult to truly punish them.
Does it make them truly evil?
Some might say it's best to not know that you've been evil.
Kurt Vonnegut is a rare talent, and I understand now why I've been hearing his name all over.
Heart-breakingly sad, utterly horrific; if funny, then savagely so. I can’t write about people writing about Nazis and WWII without feeling that I diminish the power of their work. If you read one thing about the period, this short novel would do just fine. I will leave it at that.
I'm leaving it because I cycle through Vonnegut books every few years, and I often forget which was which, and this will help me.
Campbell claims he was a double agent, using his broadcasts to send coded messages to the Americans, but no one in the United States will come forward to confirm that he was working for them.
The whole thing is told in flashback, about Campbell's life as a celebrated Berlin playwright before the war, his importance during it, his flight to New York as it was ending, and several years of living in total anonymity in the U.S., until he is finally discovered by – yup – a crazed White Supremacist.
Campbell Jr, a name that will now live long in the memory, for while behind bars in an Israeli prison awaiting trial for crimes against humanity during the second world war he sets out his memoirs, and so unfolds a remarkable story.
Living in Berlin with his German wife he writes and spreads Nazi propaganda over the airwaves all the while being a spy for the U.S military, and after the war is holed up in an apartment in New York.
But with his name now recognized as a war criminal, and many allies at his side ( some who have such great names they would fit nicely in a spoof movie!
As is its wont, life decides to alter the tempo of the music of its pageant, and whilst this new dance steers Howard inexorably towards a date with the hangman, a parade of new and old faces enter and re-enter his life; love once more warmly kisses and then coldly bites; and certain old truths and beliefs are shown to have been lies and illusions all along.My expectations for Mother Night were quite high, having read so many glowing reviews over the years.
به خاطر فضای جنگ جهانی دومی که داره کمی یادآور "سلاخ خانه شماره پنج" ه...داستان با همون طنز همیشگی و لحن سرخوشانه ونه گات روایت میشه ولی تو این کتاب، برخلاف سه اثر فیکشن قبلی که از ونه گات خوندم از نشانه های آخرالزمانی یا علمی تخیلی اثری نیستداستان جالبی داره.مردی اصالتا امریکایی ولی بزرگ شده ی آلمان در طول جنگ جهانی دوم صدای رایش رو از طریق رادیو به مردم انتقال میده و با شهرت و محبوبیتی که نزد ملت آلمان کسب کرده ازطریق پیام ها و سخنرانی های شورانگیزش ، ملت رو برای شرکت و ادامه جنگ تحریک می کنه.
اما کاری که در واقع در حال انجامش بوده جاسوسی برای امریکا و ارسال اطلاعات از طریق سرفه و عطسه و تغییر لحن و ...است.
"Mother Night" is the memoir this fictional character writes in a Jerusalem prison, while awaiting trial for war crimes.This is an equally dark and funny metafictional novel, full of clever ideas, puns, jokes, satire, and quirky twists - but as this is Vonnegut, there is a melancholy core at the heart of this text: Vonnegut's humor does not cover ugly truths about history and human nature, it highlights them.
The title "Mother Night" refers to Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's play Faust: First Part, the ultimate German literary text about the fight between good and evil.
And what Faust doesn't know: God and the devil made a bet whether Faust will ultimately side with good or evil - so who will finally win the fight for the human soul?
Campbell, Jr., the protagonist of the story, is a perfect example of someone who tried to do "as the Romans do" in Germany at the inhuman time of Third Reich and World War II and to get rid of his own conscience, yet got completely outplayed by it.
It's absolutely impossible not to laugh at his attempts to please everyone and agree with everything his life brought upon him.
The gallery of characters is quite colourful too and impossible to forget.
Read this book and you will learn everything about human madness and absurd of war and politics, maybe even better than from Slaughterhouse-Five.
Read it after Slaughterhouse then.
It's been a long, long time since I read Mr. Vonnegut.
Maybe it was just me, but Mother Night was deadly serious.
But not a confessor in the way Mother Night structures the position.
Perhaps not a Roman Catholic priest, but any sort of quasi-priest that would enable me to provide succour to Campbell, to ease his pain, because it seems to me that those people who feel guilt deeply, who look back on their actions, despite the fact that they must have felt justified in their motivations when undertaking their actions, are those who need us most.
As a deliberate contrast to Jonathan Littell’s 1000-page monster The Kindly Ones, I re-read this early Vonnegut masterpiece.
The two mediums compliment each other perfectly, so if you haven’t seen the film version, do it soon!
And if you haven’t read this brilliant novella, the confessions of Howard W.
Campbell Jr, an American spy posing as a high-ranking American Nazi whose talent for writing propaganda makes him one of the most powerful fascists of the war, do it soon too!
Read me!
The book was unlike anything I had read before, and it hinted at the great potential of literature to express a depth of meaning and emotion that I had not seen reached by other means.
Slaughterhouse-Five prompted my very first review on Goodreads, and a subsequent drive to recreate and expand on that experience by seeking out and reading as much great literature as possible.A short time later, I read two more of his novels and loved them both.
Alas, reading Mother Night, I did find that a lot of the old lustre was gone.
He is not interested in Nazi politics, just his work and his wife Helga, the star of all his plays.
Campbell is a hero to Nazi fascist supporters in the US, and Dr. Jones is ecstatic to discover this reluctant hero after so many years.
I don’t consider people who work in those fields successful.”“You hate America, don’t you?” she said.
So many people wanted to believe me!
I always know when I tell a lie, am capable of imagining the cruel consequences of anybody’s believing my lies, know cruelty is wrong.
His dilemma is this: Does the good of spying for America obviate and out weigh the evils he did by making propaganda for the Nazis or do his sins and virtues in both roles exist independently?I had never considered a moral dilemma like this before.It is a great story about how a person can do evil when they are trying to do good as well as how one man can be destroyed in the clash of two countries.This book is amazingly well written, thought provoking and powerful.
I recommend it to everyone.I read this book because my roommate recommended it and because I like Kurt Vonnegut.
