https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5113.Franny_and_Zooey
Through a simplistic, character driven account of a family thwarted by their own crippling self-awareness, Salinger crafts a flawless tale of identity and family that takes up right where he left off with Holden Caulfield—where we learn not to judge those around us, but to understand and accept one another on their own terms in order to live and love.I just never felt so fantastically rocky in my entire life.This novel was graciously bequeathed to me at the exact moment it was needed most.
Read Franny and Zooey and love the life you live and the world around you.5/5¹ This is not, however, the ideal book to read when quitting smoking.
Case in point: I recently came across an article written by Jonathan Yardley in 2004 for the Washington Post entitled "J.D. Salinger's Holden Caulfield, Aging Gracelessly".
One of the best quotes from the piece:"Rereading 'The Catcher in the Rye' after all those years was almost literally a painful experience: The combination of Salinger's execrable prose and Caulfield's jejune narcissism produced effects comparable to mainlining castor oil."Ouch.
You just can't get enough."Franny & Zooey" is one of several books/short stories written about the Glass family.
Zooey is a sometimes-working actor, determined to help his sister.The book touches on familiar Salinger-esque themes, including relgious devotion/fanaticism, kids vs.
بسیاری از حرف های زویی، به قدری جای درستی را نشانه گرفته اند، که می شود مطمئن بود نویسنده خودش چنین دوره ی عرفانی را از سر گذرانده و این حاصل تفکرات طولانی خودش است که به رشته ی تحریر درآورده است.سیمور و بادی و بوبو و والت و ویکرسالینجر به زندگی این فرزندان غایب خانواده ی گلاس در داستان های کوتاه دیگر پرداخته است، که متأسفانه من آن ها را نخوانده ام.
Franny and Zooey isn’t fast paced or plot driven; it isn’t thrilling (in the traditional sense), and its concepts aren’t surfaced-based or easy to come by (or even embraced by the mainstream populace), but Salinger didn’t write for these people; he wrote for himself and if you identified with what he wrote, good for you -- if not, so be it.
In retrospect of all we know and can (now) see of his time period, Salinger's poking and mocking of (then current) society, make Franny and Zooey seem like it was written (brilliantly) today.
If you liked Catcher in the Rye more than your average novel, then you probably have considered reading Franny and Zooey.
Needless to say, I was very disappointed.Problem number one: Zooey, who is essentially the "protagonist" (or one of two main characters) is pretty much identical to the main character from Catcher in the Rye, Holden Caulfield.
The entire book is just characters talking to each other.
They chain smoke like it's the only thing Salinger could think of to put into his novel that wasn't in quotation marks.Hmm, what can Zooey do when he's not talking...I've got it!
“I’m just sick of ego, ego, ego. My own and everybody else’s. I’m sick of everybody that wants to get somewhere, do something distinguished and all, be somebody interesting. It’s disgusting.”  This was my first real exposure to Salinger. I’ve made attempts in the past to read Catcher in the Rye, but I was never able to connect with it. My friend  Spenky  raved about Salinger’s “Franny and Zooey,” so I decided this would be my introduction to Salinger. To say I was enthralled with Salinger’s wri
I’m sick of everybody that wants to get somewhere, do something distinguished and all, be somebody interesting.
raved about Salinger’s “Franny and Zooey,” so I decided this would be my introduction to Salinger.
These are two short stories but so closely related, 'Zooey' (a novella) starts where 'Franny' (a short story) ends, that it is probably better for both stories to be read together.
Zooey Glass and Franny Glass are brother and sister and the two youngest of seven children.
It seems the challenge Salinger is putting out there for Franny to face is how to love the world for what it is without condescending to it.
The real story here is about the obsession of the oldest brother, Seymour (who committed suicide some time before) with two books about that essentially talk about reaching a godlike state by saying a simple prayer to Jesus.
By the end of the book, he is able finally to breakthrough Franny's blockage by telling her that essentially, she is trying too hard and needs to believe in herself rather than in this repetitive prayer.
It does make me want to go back and read A Catcher in the Rye to see if what Salinger really idealized in that book because in this one, we primarily see what he demonizes.
Did you know that Zooey Glass was voted People magazine’s Sexiest Man Alive in 1961?What?
In fact, they both do (Franny and Zooey), to an extent that is both sad and comical at the same time.So what is up with the Glass kids?
I mean, don’t you think Franny and Zooey would have preferred to be as carefree as other members of society seem to be?
It is the dialogue between the actors (and it is almost always one-on-one) that elucidates their character and it is the characters that made me love this book as much as I did.Oh, and Zooey Glass is hot.
"Well you are stupid Mum, you are one of the most stupid people I know, really what were you thinking when you decided to even read this for God's sake." Lights another cigarette.
"I mean to say, for God's sake, it's full of this kind of histrionic dialogue with incessant overuse of italics, and the people in it don't so much speak as hold forth as if they were on the stage somewhere for God's sake, and they just go on and on about Jesus and chakras and anahata and all this goddam mystical stuff, well surely Mother you should have realised that you wouldn't really enjoy it all that much, I mean it's not you is it?
Mysticism and religion and stuff, you never did get that did you, so why did you read it for chrissake?"Mother also lights a cigarette.
FRANNY HAS SEEN THE LIGHT, having read a book, "The Way of the Pilgrim ", and its sequel, "The Pilgrim Continues his Way", by an anonymous writer, a poor peasant, with a bad arm, a seeker of truth trying to find God's will, from the 19th century , he wandered through massive Russia.
The siblings discuss her strange behavior, she hates, school, friends and professors, quits acting in her college play, everything is stupid, nothing matters, but becomes a fanatical reader of the poor Pilgrim's thoughts about Jesus...Small book with big ideas ...still not loved by all in truth, heavyweight or lightweight material...you decide.
Franny’s cry against ego, ego, ego was a struggle for me because I liked acting and writing stories and getting published and had set a goal to have a book of fiction published in my twenties, and Zooey’s commitment to living a life focused on perfecting a devotion not to fame but to art (for him and Franny, acting, for Buddy and me, writing) made sense for me.
So I didn't think of the Glass family as merely rich and privileged whiny kids as many do now in reading them; I saw them as having a life of ideas I wanted for myself.Now as I read Franny and Zooey again I feel a little nostalgic for the explicit struggles with faith and religion that I had then.
445. Franny And Zooey, J.D. SalingerFranny and Zooey is a book by American author J. D. Salinger which comprises his short story "Franny" and novella Zooey. The two works were published together as a book in 1961, having originally appeared in The New Yorker in 1955 and 1957 respectively. The book focuses on siblings Franny and Zooey, the two youngest members of the Glass family, which was a frequent focus of Salinger's writings.عنوانها: فرانی و زویی؛ فرنی و زویی؛ نویسنده: جی.دی. سالینجر؛ تاریخ
سالینجر؛ مترجم: میلاد زکریا؛ تهران، نشر مرکز، 1380؛ در 185 ص؛ شابک: 9789643055875؛ چاپ ششم 1386؛ هفتم 1387؛ یازدهم 1392؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 معنوان: فرنی و زویی؛ نویسنده: جی.دی.
سالینجر؛ مترجم: امید نیک فرجام؛ تهران، نیلا، 1381؛ در 157 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1383؛ سوم 1385؛ پنجم 1392؛ شابک: 9789646900400؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 معنوان: فرنی و زویی همراه با شرح اسامی مکانها و حوادث و یادداشت...؛ نویسنده: جی.دی.
سالینجر؛ مترجم: علی شیعه علی؛ زهرا میرباقری؛ تهران، سبزان، 1390؛ چاپ دوم 1392؛ در 223 ص؛ شابک: 9786001170638؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 مکتاب دو داستان کوتاه با عنوانهای: «فرانی» و «زویی» ست.
But if it's the religious life you want, you ought to know right now that you're missing out on every single goddam religious action that's going on around this house.
But what I loved and want to remember now is that for years afterwards, even when they were adults, they'd bring up these stories any time they saw me.
Some times things are so damned hard I don't know what I'm going to do but I can remember that still.
I know in my gut that one time those kids had the right words for me.
Very shortly after her arrival, her enthusiasm wanes, a wariness of phonyism (a la Holden Caulfield) is voiced, and both may have something to do with a newfound interest in constant prayer.In the Zooey section (chapter), Buddy Glass, the narrator, describes the circumstances of his writing the stories of the Glass siblings, the concerns voiced by the three Glass family members who are the main characters in his ‘prose home movie,’ and reintroduces himself through a letter to his brother Zooey, who reads the letter while soaking in the bathtub before several confrontational exchanges with Franny and their mother, Bessie, on matters of family, religion, art, performance (action), and, yes, love.
خدایا.. واقعاً بهچنین چیزی نیاز داشتم.. چن وخته بهاینچیزا فک میکنم؟ چن وخته دغدغههام رنگ و بوی اینکتابو گرفته؟ ایناوّلین داستانی بود که از سلینجر خوندم و باید بگم خیلی، خیلی، خیلی ازش خوشم اومد. اگه همهی کتاباش همینطوریـن، محشره. با داستاناش آدمو درمان میکنه. نکتهی حیرتانگیز داستان، اینهکه نود درصدش دیالوگه و من شخصاً اصلاً خسته نشدم با دیالوگا. اونقد طبیعی و واقعی بودن و خب روح ِ منم بهشون نیاز داش.. و چقد نویسنده صادق و روراس نوشتهشون.. شخصیّتپردازی ِ بینظیر تکتک ِ شخصیّتها ستودنیه. فرنی رو با
نه این‌که خدایی نکرده بخوام شعور کسی رو بیارم پایین، مسئله اینه‌که چقد می‌تونی درون داستان فرو بری.
:/ ولی از زمانی که می‌ره پیش فرنی و حرف می‌زنه باهاش، با این‌که مدام می‌خواد خودشو کنار بکشه ولی نمی‌تونه در مقابل خواهرش بی‌تفاوت بمونه، باز داستان به خوبی بخش اول می‌شه.
باز از جایی که می‌ره پیش فرنی بهتر می‌شه.
و این‌که فرنی آیا برگشت به دانشگاه؟ یا طرح این سوألات اصن مهم نیستن؟ ینی تو تقریباً دوصفحه، یهو فرنی زیر و رو می‌شه؟ آخه به نظرم حرفای آخرِ زویی خیلی هم تأثیرگذار نبودن.
Salinger offers us here a pretty quest for spirituality in a world a little too materialistic with his particular style oscillating between a sensibility on the skin and a certain brutality peculiar to his heroes.A jewel.
This is brilliantly and briefly illustrated as the story centers around her date and reunion with the boyfriend she once loved - but now finds insufferable (with good reason, IMO).Even though Salinger shows us the young man's point of view also, it's hard for us to sympathize with him as we see him through Franny's eyes (and even his own thoughts don't always put him in the kindest light).This is amazing.
However, you can take or leave "Zooey." I know some people are crazy about this book, I ended up not being one of them - BUT, let me be clear that Salinger's skill as an author is not in question here.
But self-indulgent enough, and trusting enough, to risk here on goodreads.I think the main reason I love this book so much is that, no matter how many times I read it, every time I do it feels as if Salinger is speaking directly to me.
Now, I'm not an idiot, so of course one part of me knows that this isn't so - there are no "magic texts", nobody is out there writing just for me.
He said to shine them for the Fat Lady.
Even the correspondences represented in the work are fun and filled with the kind of silly banter that reminds me of my own letters to my wife before she was my wife.As far as story goes, it really is pretty slight and primarily relies on four distinct conversations over the course of a few days in which Franny has a sort of spiritual nervous breakdown.
I found the whole thing—the breakdown, the conversations, the conclusions—all to be uncomfortably believable in that I could easily imagine such a set of things occurring somewhere in real life.To conclude, Franny and Zooey is a short book that can be swallowed at breakneck speeds.
Salinger’ın zekasına, dehasına hayran olmaya devam ettiren bir metin. 9 öyküdeki unutulmaz karakter Seymour Glass’ın hikayesi devam ediyor. “Kahraman yaratmak nasıl olur?” un açılımı benim için Franny ve Zooey. İleride ara ara dönüp tekrar okuyacağımdan çok eminim.Okuyun ve hatta okutun :)"Ego ego ego. Bıktım usandım. Kendiminkinden de başkalarınkinden de. Bir yere varmak, farklı ve ayrıcalıklı bir şeyler yapmak, ilginç biri olmak isteyen herkesten bıktım usandım. İğrenç bir şey bu -iğrenç iğrenç. Kimin de ne dediği umrumda bile değil."
This collection contains a short story (Franny) and a novella (Zooey).
I do feel that Zooey went on for a bit too long however.
I feel that this is the weakest of his work that I've read thus far though.
I still think Catcher is his greatest work, followed by Nine Stories.
It contains some of Salinger's best writing and furthers the melancholic chronicle of the Glass family.
Note: I suggest that before reading this book that you read Salinger's short story A Perfect Day for Bananafish.
The stories of Seymour will make more sense to you after reading it.
I think I lost count of the number of times I've read this little book.
I'm sixty-two-years-old today and I just realized that there will come a time when all I will want to do is re-read the books that have impacted me in some way or another.
This is a religious book written at a time much like our own when writing a book with religious themes was a risky endeavor.
I tell myself that I come back to the book for the writing.
Non avrei potuto leggerlo in un momento migliore perché anch’io, come la Franny che si affaccia nel titolo, sto attraversando « un esaurimento nervoso di quart’ordine », per dirla con le parole del fratello Zooey.
E la vitalità, l’assoluta realisticità sono quello che di più colpisce nella creazione cesellata di qualsiasi personaggio: da Lane, ragazzo di Franny (che, nella sua spocchia da studente di college, fa quasi tenerezza) alla signora Glass, madre di Franny, Zooey e degli altri fratelli Glass, vestaglia e sigaretta, dispensatrice di brodi, pragmatica e vigile.
These are not uniquely American questions, but ones which we tend to focus on - at least from my limited experience.Salinger places both of these sides in opposition, but not in the pedantic way which he rails about.
The settings, after all, are a family drama and a coffee table conversation in New Haven.Salinger here relates the American conflict of ideas clothed the intense and furious dialogue of a lover's quarrel or a dysfunctional family argument.
Here's to you, Salinger, you shining sunuvvabitch.I’m not afraid to compete.
I’m afraid I will compete — that’s what scares me.
I’m sick of myself and everybody else that wants to make some kind of a splash.
After yesterday's somewhat long dinner, I picked up Franny and Zooey from the page where I had left it the previous day.
And within the next few pages, I was reading this wonderful dialogue between a sister and a brother.
If it is this family that was in some way responsible for bringing about Franny's crisis, it is her family itself that helps her get through it.And that is just one of the possible ways in which one could remember this book.
I’m going to go ahead and try to write this review, and hopefully by doing so I’ll come up with a genuine opinion by the time I am finished.I generally like to start these things off with a synopsis; it helps me put things in perspective and highlights the most notable aspects of the story.
The story opens with Zooey reading a letter from his older brother; a long, rambling correspondence that contains an oblique history of the Glass family in its slowly crumbling pages.
(You may or may not consider this a spoiler.) (view spoiler)[Paraphrasing: no matter where an actor acts, there isn’t anyone out there who isn’t Seymour’s fat lady.
(Salinger sets this up better than I do – it was throat-tighteningly good the way he did it.) (hide spoiler)]Sorting It All OutIt’s hard to know my own mind with this impactful little book.
Since it’s clear that Salinger relates strongly to these gifted, knowing characters, my view of the story becomes almost more of an assessment of the author himself.
I think I need to read more of the Glass stories to round out my view.

خداوند قلب را نه با افکار که با دردها و تناقضات راهنمایی میکند.دو کوساد (از متن کتاب)بعد از هر بار خواندن کتابی که ازش عمیقا لذت میبرم، یک حسرت تازه برام شرع می کنه به چشمک زدن:"چقدر کتاب خوب دیگه هست که تو زندگیم نخوندم، و بدون خوندن اون ها از زندگی میرم؟"به نظرم سلینجر قبل از نویسنده بودن یک روانشناسه.شخصیت پردازی هاش عالین و خطوط داستانی به قدری دلچسب و گیراست که به راحتی میشه زندگیشون کرد.
خداوند قلب را نه با افکار که با دردها و تناقضات راهنمایی می‌کند.دو کوساد (از متن کتاب)بعد از هر بار خواندن کتابی که ازش عمیقا لذت می‌برم، یک حسرت تازه برام شرع می کنه به چشمک زدن:"چقدر کتاب خوب دیگه هست که تو زندگیم نخوندم، و بدون خوندن اون ها از زندگی می‌رم؟"به نظرم سلینجر قبل از نویسنده بودن یک روانشناسه.شخصیت پردازی هاش عالین و خطوط داستانی به قدری دلچسب و گیراست که به راحتی میشه زندگیشون کرد.
توی رستوران قطار، ساعت ۵ صبح تموم شد!بخش اول که فرنی هست، ریتم تندتری داره و جذاب پیش میره و تورو با خودش میبره.
بخش دوم که زویی باشه، با دیالوگ جلو میره(مثل بخش اول) اما کشش نداره و هی حرف میزنن و ممکنه خسته شی.
ولی ادامه بده چون سلینجر ضربه نهاییشو توی ۲۰ صفحه آخر قایم کرده.
اینکه تا اونجا میاد تفکری رو شرح میده و گرایش به عرفان رو که فرنی درگیرشه، هی باز میکنه و اخر ماجرا، زویی شروع میکنه به نقد کردن این تفکر و این روش زندگی و این حجم از شاکی بودن نسبت به دیگران، درصورتی که اگر دنبال درست بود
توی رستوران قطار، ساعت ۵ صبح تموم شد!بخش اول که فرنی هست، ریتم تندتری داره و جذاب پیش می‌ره و تورو با خودش می‌بره.
بخش دوم که زویی باشه، با دیالوگ جلو می‌ره(مثل بخش اول) اما کشش نداره و هی حرف می‌زنن و ممکنه خسته شی.
اینکه تا اونجا میاد تفکری رو شرح می‌ده و گرایش به عرفان رو که فرنی درگیرشه، هی باز می‌کنه و اخر ماجرا، زویی شروع می‌کنه به نقد کردن این تفکر و این روش زندگی و این حجم از شاکی بودن نسبت به دیگران، درصورتی که اگر دنبال درست بودن بقیه هستیم، اول باید خودمون نسبت به اشتباه‌هاشون و اداهاشون انقدر دقیق نباشیم و خودبزرگ‌بینی نداشته باشیم!
It’s too damn personal.”Zooey’s critique is one that could also be leveled at a great deal of Salinger’s work; there is a lot of time spent in these novels and short stories on categorizing people and their actions in ways that are often more petty than profound.Franny, in the first section of the novel, emerges as a character clearly critical of the world around her.
جمله ای که از این کتاب یادم مونده و خیلی دوسش داشتم این بود کهمادر به زووی(!)گفت چرا ازدواج نمیکنی؟گفت من دوست دارم توی قطار کنار پنجره بشینم و دوست ندارم جامو به کسی دیگه بدم....
But Zooey, somehow, shows her a new way to think : there is beauty and meaning in every little thing you do.But also, deep down, Franny is angry at herself, just like Zooey, for being so angry all the time, it’s her own identity crisis, she doesn’t know why she’s the way she is, doesn’t know why she ended up being this person.Zooey is in a perpetual fight against himself : you can definitely tell he’s a narcissistic but he’s trying his best not to be, he doesn’t want to be praised on his physical look nor to look at himself more than he has to.
He’s also trying to stop being so pessimistic, that’s something you know he’s tired of, he’s tired of his way of thinking, he wants to stop seeing the absolute worst in people .
What a magnificent book. To make a book out of a conversation between brother and sister, and making it interesting and profound, is masterful. The conversation is actually about between being religious or not, they call it the Jesus-prayer. Then a discussion starts about between living for it or not. Here I stop my review. Because it's so compact a telling the risk is there about spoilers.
اول بگم که سالینجر توی مجبور کردن خواننده به خوندن چیزی که ازش چیزی نمیفهمه یا حتی لذت نمیبره استاده!! :-) اولاش اینجوری بود، بعد کمکم خوشم اومد ولی باز یه چیزایی که مربوط به آمریکاییها بود رو نمیفهمیدم. مترجم هم اصلا توضیح خاصی نداده بود. ولی در نهایت اون چیزا اهمیت نداشتن. حرف نهایی سالینجر رو دوست داشتم، آخرش از اون کتابها بود که میبندیش و لبخند میزنی و همونجوری چند دقیقهای میشینی فکر میکنی. اینجوری :-) زویی رو دوست داشتم. شاید به خاطر اینکه منم هیولام. دوست داشتم یه هیولا باهام حرف بزنه و یه
اول بگم که سالینجر توی مجبور کردن خواننده به خوندن چیزی که ازش چیزی نمیفهمه یا حتی لذت نمی‌بره استاده!!
:-) اولاش اینجوری بود، بعد کم‌کم خوشم اومد ولی باز یه چیزایی که مربوط به آمریکایی‌ها بود رو نمیفهمیدم.
مترجم هم اصلا توضیح خاصی نداده بود.
ولی در نهایت اون چیزا اهمیت نداشتن.
حرف نهایی سالینجر رو دوست داشتم، آخرش از اون کتابها بود که میبندیش و لبخند می‌زنی و همونجوری چند دقیقه‌ای می‌شینی فکر می‌کنی.
اینجوری :-) زویی رو دوست داشتم.
دوست داشتم یه هیولا باهام حرف بزنه و یه چیزایی رو بزنه تو سرم تا آدم بشم!
اصلا کلا خانواده خیلی باحالی بودن.
عالی بود!هیچ فکر نمی کردم کتابی اینقدر دقیق بعضی از دغدغه های منو شرح بده. نمی گم عین همین ها ولی خیلی نزدیک به این رو حس می کردم و درگیر بودم. یه جورهایی یه حس روشن بینی به آدم می داد. در نهایت نتیجه ای که قلبا بهش آگاه بودم ولی همیشه یه تردید خفی ناشی از عقل حسابگر مانع از این می شد که به طور جدی ، دنبالش باشم....ممنونم از دوست بزرگواری که باعث شد زودتر این کتاب رو بخونم
I hate Dickens.
I hated  A Separate Peace.
And I hated  Catcher in the Rye. Why must 10th graders dissect literature to the point of obscenity?
Franny and Zooey appeared on my bookshelf thanks to my well-read boyfriend, who did not let the public school system get to him in the way it got to me.
This is writing.
I mean writing.
Oh to be able to write exactly what you need to, not a word more, not a word less.
I am so glad I waited this long to really read Salinger again.
I wasn't ready before.
Are we ever ready?
I read this so long ago. I had enjoyed, or at least identified with, Catcher in the Rye, so I thought I would try this, which is much less known. And for good reason. I think his teenage angst had run its course and when he didn't feel it anymore he couldn't manufacture it for the book,nor transition into one more concerned with adult emotions.
Τελείως love-hate relationship. Θα μπορούσα να γράψω 3 σελίδες και να αναλύω αυτό το μικρό βιβλιαράκι, αλλά θα παραθέσω αυτό που εν τέλει αποκόμισα. "Δεν ξέρω τι ωφελεί να 'χετε τόσες γνώσεις και να 'σαστε ξεφτέρια, αν δεν είστε ευτυχισμένοι" ΥΓ: Δεν μπορώ να αντισταθώ, πρέπει να μαθω τι συνέβη στον Σίμορ
جایی از داستان مادر میگوید این همه دونستن و باهوش بودن اگه آدم رو خوشبخت نکنه به چه دردی میخوره؟این درد و رنجیست که آدمهای داستان گرفتارش هستند باهوش هستند و بسیار میدانند اما این دانستن کمکی به خوشبختی آها نمیکند دائم در نگرانی و بحران و اضطراب فرو میروند و هر چه دانششان بیشتر میشود این فرو رفتن هم بیشتر میشود.
فرانی دچار تهوع شده.
تهوع نفی, نفی همه چیز و زویی سعی میکند اورا با حرف زدن احیا و نجات دهد.
آن جایی که میگوید در دنیا چیزهایی زیبایی وجود دارد اما ما انقدر احمقیم که همیشه هر چیزی را به
پشت یک سوپ مرغ نگرانی و عشقی که برای تهیه آن صرف شده میبیند و از فرانی هم همین را میخواهدسیمور برادر بزرگترشان است که خودکشی کرده .سیمور کسی بوده که به جای ظاهر, عمق و معنا را میدیده و به زنی معمولی عشق می‌ورزیده.در مرحله ی اول است که انسانها نفی میشوند او از این مرحله گذشته و به آخرین مرحله یعنی برگشتن به آدمها و عشق ورزیدن به آنها رسیده.
This restless, fierce, biting little novel has me hands down beat.
I don't even know how to praise it truly I'm reeling and also mentally tabling every time I turned away a cup of consecrated chicken soup.
At least I'm still in love with Yorick's skullFranny: I can't think of thirty or so pages as evocative and haunting as you unable to shut out all the static.
Zooey showing you how, somehow through all of his own static, is the greatest act of love.
This novel is very special.
I dropped it like it burned me, leaving singed & stinging Franny Zooey fingerprints behind.
Caro Salinger, se solo sapessi quanto mi hai migliorato la giornata! Sono seduto accanto alla finestra e fuori è una splendida giornata primaverile con un sole accecante. Chiudo gli occhi e immagino che questa sia la stessa luce che illuminava il salotto di casa Glass. Insomma, oggi ho deciso di canalizzare solo energia positiva!"Voglio dire, se riesci a farti venire un collasso con tutte le tue forze, perché non puoi usare quella stessa energia per star bene e darti da fare?"
Além do romance À Espera no Centeio, escreveu novelas e contos, tendo alguns como personagens a família Glass, cujos sete irmãos são prodígios de inteligência e infelicidade...Um dos irmãos - Buddy, o escritor - é considerado, pelos estudiosos de Salinger, como o seu alter ego; outros são protagonistas de alguns dos contos incluídos em Nove Histórias.Franny e Zooey são dois dos irmãos Glass que tentam encontrar uma forma de viver em equilíbrio, libertarem-se do passado, esconderem-se de si próprios (?)...
In the end, these two pieces felt as unfinished and unmoored as J.D. Salinger's own life.
I could definitely feel a mind at work, experimenting, searching, exploring (which was captivating in itself) but the end product felt like an experiment, a first draft floating in the ether like dust in a ray of light.
A succession of lovely moments and sentences and feelings that never fully gelled or took flight.Maybe the forthcoming publication of new Family Glass writings by Salinger announced for 2015 will shed more light for me on this mesmerizing embryo.
But it had a lot of great information about all of Salinger's fetishes and neuroses, and I was really digging it all until I got to this little parenthetical aside where the guy had written, "Franny and Zooey (I have never and doubt I ever will meet someone who has read that book twice)." What!
Reading that made me so angry, and I wished I could have debunked his theory right there on the spot, but I had only read it once myself.I think I started reading Franny and Zooey for the first time the day my dog died (Chester, who, if we're keeping score, was my all-time favorite dog).
