https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32504.Blood_Work
Terry is still early in his recovery when a beautiful woman named Graciella Rivers shows up at his boat and begs him to investigate the murder of her sister, Gloria, who was shot to death in the robbery of a convenience store.
Basically, it's the old story where, unless McCaleb can find the Real Killer, he's probably going down for the crimes.McCaleb traces the killer to a storage unit that the guy, posing as a witness, has listed as his home and work address.
Then, instead of waiting for the deputy to arrive, McCaleb breaks into the unit and finds the killer's computers and a lot of other evidence linking him to the crimes.
Terry McCaleb is a retired FBI agent in L.
When he's approached by Graciella Rivers to help investigate her sister's murder, Terry's reluctant until she gives him a compelling reason to go all in.
Typical of a Connelly procedural, this story winds around the bend and back before things start to fall in place to make sense and provide motive.
I liked Terry and the hype about his skills were well founded.
It's a good story with some interesting secondary characters.
I listened to this one as McCaleb shows up in the next HB story and I wanted the background.
I have enjoyed many of his Harry Bosh novels and also Lincoln Lawyer and this book was no exception but I have to say it fell short of being great.The protagonist of the novel is Terry McCaleb - an ex-FBI agent who recently had a heart transplant and now is staying in a boat.
One thing I have to say - that the villain was a pretty complex and dangerous character.The book shows the research the author had put in to create the story.
This is true for many of his books.This is a pretty decent mystery novel but I was expecting something more -- the story had enough ingredients to create an atmosphere of fear but I felt it was not there.
Fantastic Read! I read this book to prepare for A Darkness More Than Night, Harry Bosch#7/Terry McCaleb#2 as I continue my journey through the Bosch series. Bloodwork introduces McCaleb thus leading into book #2, A Darkness More Than Night, where Bosch & McCaleb work a case together. I am so glad I didn't skip this book! It is suspense at it's best! Absolutely A Page Burner!
Very neat, clever plot. Fast paced and gripping from start to finish, and boy what a beginning - so original. If you like detective stories this one is not to be missed.
Me ha gustado, y el suspense es bueno.
Aunque admito que habiendo visto la película, la sorpresa y el misterio ha sido 0.
Eso me ha fastidiado un poco la lectura.
Pero es una lectura recomendable y está bien escrito.Me he quedado un poco descolocada, porque el final de la película no es igual al del libro...
no sé si en todo porque con los motes ando perdida....
eso ha sido muy bueno jajajaNo había leído nada de este autor y la experiencia ha sido muy entretenidaNada como estar de vacaciones y con mal tiempo para dar un estirón a las lecturas pendientes ;)
It takes the donor organ theme and turns it evil.Terry is a retired FBI agent and the recipient of a new heart, the reason for his early retirement.Terry is approached by the sister of the donor of Terry's heart.
The reason Terry was able to receive his new heart was because the donor was murdered.
Graciella Rivers, the donors sister, now wants Terry to find her sisters killer.
But feels he owes Graciella, to at least look into her sisters murder.The FBI and the LAPD are none too happy at Terry's interference in the case and try hard to keep him on the outside.
4  stars. Wow. This was good. A lot of things I didn’t expect. I didn’t want to stop reading.STORY BRIEF:McCaleb is 46 years old, retired from the FBI, and lives on a fishing boat in a Los Angeles Harbor. Two months earlier Gloria was killed in a convenience store hold up. Her organs went to several people. McCaleb got her heart. Gloria’s sister Graciela, a nurse, figures this out and asks McCaleb to help find the shooter. The police have stopped working on the case and are either incompetent or
I didn’t want to stop reading.STORY BRIEF:McCaleb is 46 years old, retired from the FBI, and lives on a fishing boat in a Los Angeles Harbor.
The only reason I didn’t give it 5 stars was because it was almost too good in the following ways.
The characters didn’t use cell phones in this story - the way we do today.
This is not a complaint, just something I noticed.THE MOVIE:Clint Eastwood played McCaleb in the 2002 movie of this book.NARRATOR:Dick Hill was very good.SERIES:The author has four series.
Until now.High expectations don’t usually help when you go into a book but after reading about 10 or so of Connolly’s other work and every one of them a finely crafted crime tale with interesting main characters you think that you are in safe hands.
Damn you Gus!!I was keen to read this as I knew the main character from this novel turns up in a Harry Bosch novel which I’m planning on reading this year so I thought it would be good to read about this guy and see what he was like etc.
Best Connelly book ever!
Terrel MacCaleb is a retired FBI profiler who recently had a heart transplant.
He gets a visitor at his boat, a woman who tells him his heart came from a murder victim.
Little does he know how connected he has been to the case all along.The characters in this story are some of the best that Connelly has created so far.
The story had been changed to actually be more predictable and the things I thought I saw coming in the book actually happened in the movie.
Skip the movie, read the book.
She appeals to McCaleb to find the man who murdered her sister in cold blood.
Terry is reluctant to get involved, until he discovers that the new heart he was given belonged to Graciela's sister, Gloria Torres.
Terry talks to the detectives on the cold case and reviews the file, including the security tape that shows the murder.
Terry doesn't know if he will be able to turn the case around, but he will do anything in his power to find who killed Gloria Torres.
This is the first book in the Terry McCaleb series and an excellent police procedural.
2016-3.53 STARS-2007"'Blood Work' - that's what Terry McCaleb used to call his job at the FBI.
Eight weeks ago he was a dead man, but now someone else's heart is keeping him alive.
Nothing about the seemingly random killing makes sense but McCaleb is a tenacious man and little by little he realises that someone is watching his every move - someone who has killed before and will kill again..." (From Amazon)I think this storyline works better as a book than a movie.
I read the novel years later and it took me a little longer.
A good suspense novel.
Interesante libro de intriga, con muchos giros en la trama. Muy recomendable.
Terry McCaleb, an ex-FBI agent, is recovering from life-saving heart replacement surgery when he takes on a pretty unlikely job.
As his investigation progresses, the danger to himself as well as Graciela and Raymond, increases exponentially, as he comes to realize that the prime mover behind the crimes is a serial killer out of his own past...someone who sees McCaleb as a worthy opponent and is inserting himself back into Terry's life in a most unusual way.Connelly is great at plotting, at character development, and in detailing the workings of the LA Police and the FBI.
It felt like an attempt to answer every question, but the page count was getting too long, so our hero began making huge, miraculously accurate assumptions that, earlier in the book would have been justified on every detail, but, coming at the end, the reader is expected to just go with it to help us all get to the end without too many explanations.
Connelly has that rare skill of working a story backwards, then peeling it layer by layer, so that the end product is a vastly different idea than the one we started with.
Part detective tale, part police procedural, "Blood Work" is the story of a retired FBI agent who takes on one last case for a very personal reason.
For example, for medical reasons he's supposed to take umpty dozen medications twice daily and not drive (and a big deal is made of this early in the book) yet he seems to forget all that as the story goes on (a matter of a few days), and no mention is made of it as he drives hither and yon and confronts bad guys.Bottom line: "Blood Work" is an okay read, but if you're new to Michael Connelly, try one of his Harry Bosch novels first.
4.5 stars.I read this first installment of the Terry McCaleb novels last, as I doubled-backed to read the sidebar Bosch Universe novels.
I wasn't blown away by McCaleb as a character in A Darkness More Than Night and The Narrows, but I enjoyed him much more in Blood Work.Great plot and excellent writing, as is the case with all Connelly books.
I really like Jaye Winston as a character so it was nice to be exposed more to her in what was also her introduction to the Bosch Universe.It's telling that before the novel was even published Eastwood picked it up to direct and star in as a film.
An excellent introduction to Terry McCaleb, ex-FBI agent. Book is very fast paced and intricately plotted. The only flaw I found: I do not believe a new heart recipient could have kept up the pace McCaleb did without compromising his health severely. Recommended to action fans.
When he finds out, during his recovery, that he got his heart from a woman who was gunned down in a senseless act of violence, his old instincts kick in and he can't help but look into the case--and quickly realizes that nothing is as it seems.Some of the twists are predictable, but I think Connelly knows that, so he throws in a few more that aren't and it makes for an interesting read.
The same is true of the other cop characters in the book--there's the good one, the arrogant one who gets in the way and the studious one but that's all we learn about them.
5 stars. I loved it. Very suspenseful and I love how it all came together. It was perfect!
This retired FBI dude was seemingly managing to enjoy his new lease on life after being the recipient of a new heart.I found the new setting of a boat docked at a Marina spitting distance from Catalina Island refreshing and welcome compared to the streets of LA.
I enjoyed the back story of this former agent growing up on Catalina Island and his life experiences and father's counsel that helped form his dogged investigative skills of serial killers.
Cops painted black, common sense thrown overboard, friends put in awkward positions for their favors, implausible outcomes...all that and more to enjoy if you're willing to go along for the ride.
Previous Connelly non-Bosch book that I read wasn't as good as the Bosch series but this one was right up there with them. Terry McCaleb was a very interesting character and the storyline of him trying to solve the murder of the woman whose heart was used for his heart transplant was developed in a very clever way. As usual with Connelly books, the story got more and more gripping the further in you got. Looking forward to reading more in this series and intrigued to read how he interacts with Bosch in the next one.
Good read, unusual circumstances for Terry McCaleb, and I liked the other characters, especially his neighbor friend. But I found the book to be a slow read due to way too much information about details.
Terry McCaleb is a former FBI agent who was forced to retire when he found he had a bad heart.
Now, against all odds, he’s trying to recover from a heart transplant.
The hook that pulls Terry in?
His new heart belong to the sister until she died.
But can he find out what happened without affecting his health?This book starts out simply enough, but as the layers are peeled away, my mind was blown by how expertly things were set up.
I really can’t recommend this book highly enough.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
Another very good book by Michael Connelly.
This one introduces us to Terry McCaleb an ex-FBI agent who is current recovering from heart surgery.
Typical , very well written Michael Connelly detective story.
I really only found out about this book because I am reading the HARRY BOSCH series, in order and I saw that my next on the Bosch list was Bosch #7 and Terry McCaleb #2.
I'm sure most if not all of my Good Read pals have read all (if not most) of the Bosch series and this book as well...
1st book in the Terry McCaleb series by Michael Connelly.I had already seen the film but being a big Michael Connelly fan wanted to read the book as well.With the excellent writing it was easy to get engrossed in this book and knowing the story did not spoil it for me. I read this in 24 hours because I just couldn't put it down.I did get caught out at the end due to it being different to the movie. Maybe I am in the minority but I did prefer the films ending although I enjoyed the book more overall.
Very good thriller. Ex-cop has heart transplant but is then hired to find who killed the girl who donated that heart. Full of nice twists and a decent array of characters. The hero has none of the grit and menace of Harry Bosch but it is fast paced and, although a tad predictable, has enough surprises to make it worth all the effort.
This 1998 novel introduced retired FBI agent Terry McCaleb into the Harry Bosch "galaxy," and is a wonderful standalone thriller on its own.
For those keeping track of things like this, Blood Work is considered the 8th book in Harry's world because he and Bosch interact in books following this introductory one.Blood Work introduces Terry as a shell of a man who almost died waiting for the heart transplant that barely happened in time to save his life.
When the sister asks Terry (she knows that he was a serial murder profiler for the FBI in his previous life) to look into her sister's murder since the police seem to have given up on solving it, Terry's world is changed forever.
The need for cyber-security when dealing with patient medical records is important.The author delves into the medical mystery genre created and inhabited by Michael Crichton, Robin Cook and Michael Palmer.
And with government agencies like USAMRIID and the former Soviet Biopreparat that have created antibiotic resistant forms of bacteria through genetic engineering having access to this is dangerous.CMV - Neg refers to a patient that is negative for the Cytomegalovirus.
If a patient that does not have this antigen in their blood stream is exposed to it, then their body can develop antibodies to it.
This is what is referred to as an antigen-antibody reaction or anaphylaxis (aka Anaphylactic shock).
Heart-driven suspense Terry McCaleb faces life anew as he works to find the man who killed Graciela's sister in cold blood. Using inner and outer resources and skills that he has garnered in his past career as an FBI agent, he applies himself to the task—not an easy job; boring at times, thrilling at others. He brings about a satisfying conclusion for himself, and for the reader. Good work for an experienced author who has created another flawed, and likable character.
