https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100369.Inferno
Very entertaining SF/F revision of Dante's Inferno with Mussolini as guide through the underworld.Written in 1976, this apparently caused quite a stir back then, but many of Niven's fresh ideas have dulled since. Still very creative and imaginative and leaves the reader wondering who is better: Benito Mussolini or a science fiction writer?
Not a bad read with "our hero" making his way through "Hell".
Readable, well executed...enjoy.I must mention here that I have for many years (since becoming an adult Christian I suppose would be the time line) I've had a somewhat bad taste in my mouth about The Divine Comedy specifically The Inferno.
Most of what people think of today as "Hell" comes from that poem instead of the Bible.
The Bible actually says very little about Hell.
I've read many books by the writer(s) that I've liked better.
he continues with the denial point of view way too long.
Carpenter is a rationalist and a non-believer, so at first he tries find rational explanations for his new environment---his fans had his body frozen after his death and he has been revived in a Disneyland-like reconstruction of Dante's Inferno, built by a civilization vastly more advanced than ours.
Like Dante, Carpenter meets many damned souls in his descent through the Inferno.
Why, Carpenter wonders, would a moral God need to create such torment?I enjoyed this book on three levels.
Second, I was fascinated by the description of Dante's Inferno, with each category of sinner carefully segregated and given a punishment that fits their crime.
3.5 stars. Clever, well thought out re-telling of Dante's Inferno. Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1976)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1976)Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1977)
Niven and Pournelle rewrite Dante as a pulp SF novel. Well, it would perhaps have been funny as a short story, but as it was I just felt appalled after a while.I wonder which level of Hell they're going end up in for doing this? My guess is the Tenth Bolgia of the Eighth Circle ("various sorts of falsifiers: alchemists, counterfeiters, perjurers, and impersonators"). Any other suggestions?
InfernoBy Larry Niven and Jerry PournellePublisher: Orb BooksPublished In: New York, NYDate: 1976Pgs: 237Summary:Imagine not being able to feel anything...not being able to see anything.
All you have to do is follow him downward through the deeper and darker sections of Dante’s Hell in search of the way out.
Least Favorite Character: This was a rare book where I liked all the characters.Favorite Scene:When Lucifer looks down at Allen and asks him the question.Plot Holes/Out of Character:This is pretty tightly plotted and the OOC moments are thin.Last Page Sound:Mmmmm...that’s good.
I just hope that the recently produced sequel is as good.Author Assessment:They are tremendous together.Disposition of Book:Keeping it and re-reading it.
A retelling of Inferno by Dante, through the eyes of science fiction writer Allen Carpentier.
Our protagonist meets his untimely end while trying to impress science fiction fans at a con meetup by mixing an overly large alcohol bottle and a balcony ledge.
Nominated in 1976 for both the Hugo and Nebula awards, this is a humorous take on a traditionally somber trip through hell.
While the overlay of Dante's world is apparent, newer additions were sprinkled throughout would, such as hoarders against the obsessive compulsive, and developers against activists, fighting each other for eternity.
hell.
Having read this as a teenager--yeah, it's been that long--I found myself rereading it recently and got caught up in the world as imagined--and riffed from Dante Alighieri himself--by Niven and Pournelle.
And, he performs the ultimate act of self-sacrifice while watching...okay, won't go there.What Inferno has going for it, then as now, is the sheer power in very simple language to make the reader imagine he or she is undertaking that very same trip.
Time and circumstances may have dulled Nivens' and Pournelle's writing style, but this, along with Lucifer's Hammer, is an excellent portrayal of them at their very best.
As they write--paraphrasing--if Hell won't make a man yell for help, what will?Highly recommended for any sci-fi/fantasy buff.
-Humor, ajuste de cuentas cariñoso y, a su manera, entretenido.-Género. Narrativa Fantástica.Lo que nos cuenta. El escritor de Ciencia-Ficción Allen Carpentier muerte al caer desde una ventana mientras hacía cosas imprudentes en una convención de Ciencia-Ficción. Cuando despierta, tras un tiempo aparentemente atrapado en algún lugar, cree hallarse en algún tipo de parque temático muy avanzado que homenajea al Infierno de Dante, por mucho que Benito, otro de sus habitantes que se ofrece a acompañar a Allen, le diga que realmente están en el infierno.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com....
First, as the straightforward horror story, the tale of an innocent man (but is he really innocent?) descending into the seven circles of Hell and discovering all manner of suffering and pain on his way down.
As each of the circles is completely different to the rest, the book is episodic in nature and contains a wealth of description and intrigue.There are also many memorable characters in the story.
The ending is also an excellent way to conclude the tale and really satisfying.
INFERNO is really a one-of-a-kind tale and should be read as a warning by anyone with an imagination.
He is discovered by an erstwhile guide who just happened to be a war criminal in life, and together they take a tour of the damned as they attempt to escape.The book relies heavily on Dante's map of the underworld, directly referencing Dante's story more than once, and some of the reworked torments resonate with irony and dark humor.
Allen's guide is an interesting character, though, and by the end of the book the relationship between him and Allen (and the purpose for their little sightseeing adventure) becomes satisfyingly clear.Inferno is a quick, interesting, and fun read, though it really just made me want to read Dante again.
Dante Alighieri gets a makeover and his journey to hell is led by a science fiction writer named Carpentier whose fans let him accidently kill himself at a sci-fi convention.
Carpentier, at first, has some ethical and practical questions about being dead—mainly how he is capable of thinking about being dead if he is dead.
It’s this utterance that places him in limbo after his reckless deed and supplies his guide to the underworld.
Hell is forever, don’t forget.
There is a special place for lawyers—rightly so.
But my favorite scene was when Carpentier ran across a ‘hoarder and collector’ who in life had amassed the definitive collection of the authors books.
What I liked about it?- Dante's Inferno, but better.
Dante was never afraid of his journey through hell - Allen Carpentier (our protagonist) most definitely is.
He has a lot more riding on it, and that makes it much more captivating.- Cameos from history's most infamous characters- Gory, but funny as hell (pun intended).What I didn't like about it?- It ended.
Should you read it?Hell yes.
It was well-paced, and enticed me to keep reading just to find out what was next on their freaky tour of the bottomless pit.
omg, you guys, gnats are so annoying they're probably in hell. HAHAHAHAHA! And you know what else? Lawyers and ad execs are annoying, so they're probably in hell, too. AHAHAHAHA! And sci-fi writers are so pedantic and skeptical, I bet they wouldn't believe they were in hell until they investigated every other possible explanation.I bet they would annoy the demons! AHAHAHAHA! And what about that Mussolini...A sci-fi convention joke that's probably best served as a sci-fi convention joke. Go home, Larry and Jerry. You're drunk.
Maybe it's just me, as I've seen many positive reviews of this book here. But,I think the the writing juvenile,the characters cardboard cutouts. For a story that deals with a trip through Hell,it all seems very lighthearted,almost comic. The horrific punishments don't horrify. For a book that I was really looking forward to,it was a big disappointment. I say pass.
Awesome reworking of Dante's great poem.Sf writer in hell with Benito Musollini as a guide.It was very popular in academic circles and among Dante students.Niven and Pournelle wrote a sequel but it is vastly inferior to this excellent novel.
A fun look at a re-adaptation of Dante w/ Mussolini as your guide.
Not to be confused with the classic, this is a book that is in fact a total ripoff of the aforementioned story with the added bonus of a dash of bigotry and homophobia. Awesome!
While I generally like the idea of turning Dante's Inferno into a SciFi pulp novel, Niven's and Pournelle's interpretation of the great Italian classic is not without its flaws.
And this is basically where the problems begin: The authors jump from one place to the next, hardly giving the reader time to soak in the atmosphere or let his fantasy process the imagery, making the novel feel more like a brainstorming of ideas loosely knitted together and that have never been truly fleshed out.
Whether Niven and Pournelle managed to get their stuff together with the follow-up I do not know as of now, but I am planning to find out soon.
By the end of the book, Carpenter believes he has arrived at an answer, one that requires him to stay in Hell and help others escape while Mussolini goes on to the next stage (presumably Purgatory).N&P break the monotony of Carpenter and Mussolini's relationship with several transitory characters, including Billy the Kidd, an astronaut named Jeremy Corbett, and for a moment, Jesse James.
Carpenter as a character and his entire Infernoland theory is as much a comment on the cult of science fiction as it is a deconstruction of Christian Hell.
Interesting, but also kinda “meh”.
The addition of filling out necessary forms and paperwork in order to decent between different rings of hell was very unwelcomed and did a wonderful job of fully removing me from the feeling that I was descending the rings of hell through John Carpenter's eyes.All of that being said, this book was a really good read.
The beginning of this novel, before Carpentier is found to be in Hell, is almost a direct homage to JGHG...and a very good one at that.On the whole, this book certainly does Dante's original piece justice and is certainly worth the read.
Storyline: 2/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 2/5World: 2/5I have this notion that spoofs and satires ought to be held to a high standard.
Because destruction comes so much more easily than construction, I envision the satirist as taking on the dual challenge - deconstructing that which is being parodied but simultaneously constructing an impressive world and story with qualities on par with the original.
The world-building is where the authors have the most to contribute, but the 192 pages didn't give it the same opportunities that the parodied work's 490 pages provided.
Perhaps Niven and Pournelle were making those allegories I wished for, but I simply didn't get it.
(Original review: http://hill-kleerup.org/blog/2009/06/...)"Inferno", for those who haven’t read it, is a revisiting of Dante’s playground, only in this case it’s an untimely dead mid-grade SF writer dealing disbelievingly with a somewhat updated Hell, led by a mysterious figure who promises the way out can be found at the bottom.
I wouldn’t say that it’s a vast improvement over the original, but it feels a bit more solid, less of a “let’s hurry on to the next cool idea” sort of setup.
Buy it if you’re a fan, or if you’ve never read it before.
(The sequel, "Escape from Hell", was just released this spring.)
One of my favorite books.
Niven & Pournelle: Either you love them or hate them.
I love their work and have rarely been disappointed in their works.
"Inferno" is a sharp departure from their typical space opera genre.
This is essentially a retelling of Dante's classic but from a modern tongue-in-cheek perspective.
Dante probably took himself more seriously than Niven & Pournelle.
I was puzzled by some of the negative reviews by readers of this book - I would recommend it to anyone with a sense of humor, a familiarity with Dante's Inferno, and an appreciation for a good story.
I still this is the best science fiction book I have ever read.Writer Allen Carpentier finds himself in Hell following a hard night of drinking with his fans.
Of course, he can't accept it's Hell, he develops numerous hypothesis about what it could be using the science fiction stories he wrote as a basis.
Still the place does bear a close resemblance to Dante's Inferno, a book he read in college, and his guide Benito, is Italian.As Allen travels the nine circles of Hell, he comes to terms with what a sin is, what it isn't, and how the refusal to examine your life and make changes is what truly damns your soul.I can't recommend this book highly enough.
A very fun and somewhat emotional modern_day sequel to Dante's Inferno. The writers pay great homage to the original in a humble and relatable story, and I really enjoyed the depth of the characters for such a short novel. Having loved The Divine Comedy, I found this to be a wonderful and witty tribute to Dante Alighieri's masterpiece with the characteristic skepticism and humor of Jerry Pournelle and Larry Niven. Read the original first!
Author Allen Carpentier is at a science fiction convention when he falls out of the window of his hotel room. He finds himself in Hell. Determined to grasp control of the situation and achieve redemption, he starts on a journey through a slightly modified version of Dante‘s hell, guided by a man called Benito.The idea behind this novel is classic. A modern retelling of Dante’s Inferno! Great fun despite the subject matter.http://www.books.rosboch.net/?p=1068
I can't find this anywhere! it's a story about a science fiction writer who dies accidentally and goes to hell. he finds it to be exactly like Dante described it. since he does not think he's supposed to be there at all, he has to descend to the final circle of hell and climb up the devil's maybe asshole? to escape. long time.
Sorry I just couldn't get this one. The premise was interesting, but the execution fell flat.
