https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40314.Love_Overboard
Evanovich is obviously fond of the name Stephanie!2.5★ & I'll tell you why.This is a reissue of an old Loveswept.
This doesn't work as there are for example, are no cell phones & a secondary character who dresses like an 80s punk.
(date of reissue)It took me two days to finish this book and normally I can read light romances in an afternoon.
The book is an early example of Evanovich's ability to describe attractive main characters & sexual attraction.
& I can remember reading & enjoying another of her Loveswept titles many moons ago, but this particular title should have been left to the normal fate of light romances - pulping or charity shops.
Love Overboard is a pre-Plum romance by American author, Janet Evanovich.
Having just bought a house that seems to be developing one structural problem after another, ex-cop Stephanie Lowe takes a job as cook on a small cruise vessel in exchange for some plumbing work.
The captain, Ivan Rasmussen, descendant of the infamous pirate, Red Rasmussen, is a notorious womaniser, but something about the quirky and feisty Stephanie grabs onto his heart.
There’s a fair bit of slapstick, some intrigue, plenty of romance, a bit of sex, a disappearing corpse and a ghost to keep things lively.
Some issues also contain an excerpt from another pre-Plum novel, Back to the Bedroom.
So cute and sweet without being mushy or overboard with romance. One of my favorite authors always.
Okay, so back in the days before Stephanie Plum, Janet Evanovich wrote a series of short romance stories.
The basic story is that 29 year old Stephanie (not to be confused with Plum) recently quit the police force and bought a big house in Maine, with intentions of making it an inn.
Sure, Evanovich updated some stuff when it was republished, but it still feels like a book from the late 80s.
The point of view jumps constantly between Ivan and Stephanie, often within the same paragraph, and it was really grating to read.
I definitely liked the story and I loved the characters in it.
I think listening to it on audio book added more dimensions to the characters and I had more insight into their personalities.I really liked the relationship between Steph and Ivan.
I also really enjoyed the storyline with the ghost of Tess, and the mysterious dead body that kept appearing everywhere at Haben (Haven?
I was listening so I'm unsure how to spell it).The only issue I had was that it was almost like there were TOO many stories going on at once.
I listened to this book just to check out the author after being referred by a friend.
Most romance novels have an ounce of maybe he or she doesn't feel the same about me as I do them, but not this one.
The author chose to, instead have the couple enamoured at first sight and bore me half to death with the rest.
I like my romance steamier.
I like my suspence more suspencful.
If I were to allow my pre-teen to read a romance novel this would be it but she would probably put it down too.
This was a fun book to read and a really good ending.
Stephanie does have a few tricks of her own to keep him off.Yep, it's an Ace on the make, and he's praying a ship's captain can't really marry anyone.It's a fun story with a woman who desperately needs to learn how to have fun again, how to reconnect with life, how to use a woodstove to cook with, a man with too many worries, and a massive conspiracy behind the scenes as ghosts swing in and out, conspiracy comes to light, and Evanovich turns the tropes on their heads, lol.To top it off, they have the punkish Melody with her everchanging hair and an embalmed swinger.The StoryStephanie will do anything for a free plumbing job, even if it does mean cooking for Ivan the Terrible for a week.
The romance in this novel seems a bit by-the-book and doesn’t blend well with the characters and action.
She’s on her way to his boat to work as ship’s cook in place of her cousin Lucy, who’s getting married.
Melody, another character they meet on the boat, also comes to stay and work at the inn the house has become.
Eventually, they perform a stake-out to find the cause of the strange nighttime happenings, and find that Melody and Stephanie’s cousin Lucy had been behind the tricks, hoping to get Ivan and Stephanie to fall in love.
Here she meets Ivan, the descnendent of a famous pirate, the captain of the ship and former owner of her new house.I have a massive problem with the writing style of Ms. Evanovich, the perspective flips from the male to the female protagonist and we get insight into both heads during a conversation.
I often felt like the author thought of her readers as not very bright but keen to read as many descriptions of the flawless chest of the male hero as possible.The setting was wonderful, the boat and the old mansion really came to life and were a great background for the story.I did however enjoy the flow of the story and felt quite entertained.
The humor is there in the strong, funny lead female character that shows she's human with some average insecurities.
He falls in love immediately, he knows it despite being a confirmed bachelor and womanizer, and he tells her he loves her first.
(Yeah, right!)So it's one of those average quick reads by an author that displayed her talents in her first books.
It's just what you expect: funny situations, fast-paced action and dialogue, likeable characters and, as the author says, "some getting naked".PS.
This is the first (and hopefully the ONLY) time I've heard of a woman's privates referred to as her "doodah".
Loads of fun!! This was a quick read with all the romance and humor that Evanovich is known for. This time it's Ivan and Stephanie - Ivan is the handsome captain of the Josiah T. Savage and the direct descendant of a famous pirate. Stephanie is convinced to become his cook for a week when the regular cook is suddenly unavailable. There are sparks from the beginning and it is fun to watch their relationship develop.
If this were my first Evanovich book, it would be my last. The writing is easy to read--it has a good speed, and the author doesn't expect much from the reader, except to abandon all possibilities of reality and to trust that she'll deliver. She does wrap up the story, but it was too over the top, but yet too predictable. Skip this Evanovich--there are plenty of other ones out there that can explain why some people are true fans.
This was basically Stephanie Plum in prototype. The main character in this book even has the same first name. There is humour, action, mystery and sexy bits, just like a Plum novel - just not as well done. The mystery is pretty contrived and the romance aspect highly unbelievable but if you want a light read and are willing to really suspend your disbelief, you could do worse than this book.
Save your time. It was just okay. Evanovich didn't blossom till the plum series. This was a waste of time. I read it after the plum. Weird plot line. very disconnected. The part on the boat, then the dead bodies in the bnb. Just not very cohesive
This book grabbed me from the beginning. I liked the tumble and the reactions. The humor and suspense was blended greatly and kept me turning pages. I laughed and was frustrated and a few other emotions. I would definitely read this book again and am keeping it on my shelf.
Liked this book a lot, but, it's another one where the man proposes marriage and then decides to tell the whole truth about his past.
A fun light hearted book that's really more chick lit than romance.
This book is hilarious !!! You have to read it..........
Okay, seriously? She uses the word 'doodah' to talk about a woman's vagina on numerous occasions, and I just don't really understand half the plot. Easy, quick read but not really worth it.
3.5 stars - A cute, fun story.
Cheesy and cute.
And who can resist a ghost ?Stephanie, an ex- Narc wants a change in life and scenery and moved from Jersey City to a small town in Maine where she bought ' Haven ', which she wants to turn into a ' Guest House '.Even though the house appeared to be in good shape, things start falling apart immediately and Stephanie finds herself in need of a plumber.Her good luck is that her cousin ' Lucy ' is about to marry a plumber.
I got this book thinking it was another Stephanie Plum series book, but that was not the case.
It was originally called, Ivan Takes a Wife, telling you right there that the theme is a little different than the Plum series.
Whereas, I enjoyed this book and will look into seeing if there are more with the Lowe character, although it seems to be a stand alone book, I enjoy the Plum series better.
Maybe because of a little this, that and the other, but it is worth checking out, especially if you like Janet Evanovich.
I didn't like the pace of the book - I felt like right from the start things happened very abruptly with no character or story build up and it was like that throughout.
There were some amusing and funny parts and it was a very quick read but the flow of the book just didn't work for me.
There were also some issues with the story - some things were very far fetched and not very believable.
I know this is an older book by the author and it just seems that she hasn't really hit her stride yet when writting this one.
I guess I needed a break from my string of YA zombie-filled books lately because Evanovich is not my usual choice in author. This book had all your typical remedies for a love story: sexual tension, cozy settings, difficult pasts, and humorous characters. I actually kind of liked it--three stars liked it. The author's use of "doodah" for a woman's private parts probably cost the book at least 1.5 stars. ;)Other than descriptive words that make your eyebrows come together, the woman is great at making characters come alive!
Everything one could expect of a comic, mysterious, romantic Janet Evanovich novel. I think it's her best republished standalone. It feels fresh, and it's not formulaic at all. It also isn't sexist. I highly recommend it if you want something to cheer you up in the middle of the night after you finish something scary or depressing.
Early Janet Evanovich. Not as good as Plums
Incredibly boring - weak writing and story. Lacks the humour and endearing characters that make the Stephanie Plum series so enjoyable.
Listened to audio book. Would not have been worth reading. Very disappointed
