https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77629.Trio_for_Blunt_Instruments
The anthology consists of three novellas:Kill Now - Pay Later.Nero Wolfe's favorite bootblack witnessed a crime and he hinted at it to the detective while working on his shoes, but he did not give any details.
He was later killed, but the police decided it was a suicide, so it is up to Wolfe to prove it was a murder and find the culprit.
She tried to avoid being asked some embarrassing questions, so she unintentionally framed up Archie Goodwin practically landing him in jail for the murder.
There is another social commentary here: this time it is about self-righteousness people.
The first of these three novellas "Kill Now--Pay Later"--in which Wolfe's bootblack witnesses a murder and is subsequently murdered himself--is a rehash of the typical Stout corporate crime tale, and actually contains the cliche of a victim writing his murderer's name in blood.
The third novella "Blood Will Tell"--featuring a suspect framed with a blood-stained tie--is actually quite good.
If you haven't read any of the series, please don't start here.
But of course series devotees like myself will enjoy it anyway, in spite of its flaws.
As is often the case with a collection of short stories, some are better than the others.
This book contains three novellas.1.
"Kill Now Pay Later" is a tired work.
There was hardly any mystery.
Goodwin was cracking in his wry observations.
Wolfe showed his spirit by walking several extra miles for the sake of the bootblack.
Hardly three stars.2.
"Murder is Corny" is a story where Goodwin gets involved due to some incredibly stupid act on part of a lady, and a whole lot of corn.
"Blood Will Tell", originally published in Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine, was preposterous, and highly enjoyable.
It walks away with four stars.Therefore, on an average, three stars to the book.Your call now.
Impeccable NovellasThey have been more popular mystery authors than Rex Stout. But there has never been a better one. He excelled in writing to the length of the novella. This book contains three of them. He is writing about his unique characters, Nero Wolfe and assistant Archie GoodwinI always try to deduce who the murderer is before Nero Wolfe does. But I rarely do. I have however, discovered the murder before Archie does. If you like mysteries, mysteries that are true who-dunits and not action novels or thrillers, this book will delight you.
If you see that I have read a Nero Wolfe book by Rex Stout you can bet that it gets a high rating.
It is not so much the plotting of the mystery which sometimes is a bit weak as much as the ambiance of life in the rather luxurious old brownstone with Wolfe, his assistant/confidant Archie Goodwin, and Fritz, the best cook in NYC.
The stories are eccentric and sometimes humorous and they hold your interest from beginning to end.
There are three short stories in this book and I loved them all.....but that is no surprise since I am a dyed-in-the-wool fan.
My first Nero Wolfe and still my favourite. I fell in love with Archie Goodwin through this book, as well as discovered an excellent way to cook corn-on-the-cob. The mysteries are straightforward but interesting, peopled with fun characters. Overall, Stout's strength was the short story and this showcases him at his peak.
It's interesting to note that in both this story and Blood Will Tell, Archie has a couple of hissy-fits at Wolfe, basically because he feels left out of the loop.
He doesn't yell, he gets all hurt and jealous and gives Wolfe the silent treatment, which affects the great man not a whit--but is an interesting sidelight on Archie's character.Perhaps it's because I listened to this audio book in several sessions, but I found Blood Will Tell confusing and convoluted (aside from being wildly improbable, as most cosy murders are).
Самата книга, въпреки че съдържа три непревеждани досега повести, няма съдържание, нито поне някакво указание, че преди нея са излезли още 3 книги и може би предстоят други.
Никъде, включително и на сайта на издателството, не е посочено кои и колко произведения на Стаут ще съдържа поредицата, което си е сериозен гаф, имайки предвид, че случаите на Ниро Улф са над 70.Но, като оставим всичко това настрана, удоволствието от срещата с дебелия гениален детектив и неговия привлекателен помощник Арчи Гудуин е налице.
There are a few good things about weaker memory as you age: you forget plots quicker so you can reread your favorite mysteries more often.This is good Wolfe. Testy Wolfe and testier Archie, sufficient Cramer, pretty good plots, Wolfe stays home, some well formed characters for short works (especially the last, Blood Will Tell). For some reason I gave it a 3 before; definitely a four.Perfect reading for convalescence from holiday flu.
mom and bob have gotten me into these silly books~ makes you say things like "pfui!" and wishing i had an orchid room at the top of my brownstone home..
Stout at his best.This is by far the best of Stout 's novella compilations.
Earlier novellas often felt like they had been cut short.
At least one was in effect a rehearsal for, or draft of a later novel.
These novellas work on all levels: they're perfectly paced, written with clarity and with characterizations of great economy, yet delivering a full sense of the relationship that make Stout 's novels such a pleasure, that between the genius Nero Wolfe and his arms and legs and our narrator, Archie Goodwin.
The whodoneits are also are on a relatively high level.
My first Nero Wolfe and it's been a mixed experience - the writing/plot reminded me of Perry Mason. The pace is slower than I would have expected and the characters aren't very fleshed out. But the mystery itself was pretty solid.Would I pick up another one sometime? Yes - because I don't think I should judge Stout based on just a novella.
Three decent Nero Wolfe stories, though I wouldn’t consider them great mysteries. The first one was the best mystery. The second and third stories seemed to focus more on the relationship between Archie Goodwin and Nero Wolfe. With that in mind, this book is definitely worth the read.
Archie . Its not Nero. Its Archie.Sherlock had Watson and Nero had Archie. There has got to be an alter ego for the author. Archie gives Stout his voice.
Three novellas featuring our beloved Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin. Classic mysteries for lovers of author Rex Stout.
As always with Nero Wolfe stories, a great read I couldn’t put down until the end.
I Book-$2.99-Bookbub. Three novellas with Nero and Archie
Extremely good!! Archie really shines.
Three dated novellas that are not politically correct for today. Still a good who done it. No cell phones, internet, DNA or Uber. Land lines, Newspapers, blood typing and hack taxis.
Three short stories where Archie plays center stage in the mysteries, but Wolfe provides the solution once he reluctantly gets engaged.
Not a bad trio of stories. They range from great, to typical, to too easy. I put it bedside so small doses worked out well. Makes me look forward to another.
Archie Goodwin has to be one of the best characters ever created. Even when I get lost in his banter, I delight in his wit.
Good as always, but these three short stories have some plot similarities in the way Wolfe gets involved with the case, which seem a little tired by the time you get to the last story.
What can I say? I love Nero. I love Archie. Two great detectives at their best. (and the banter!)
Intolerable!Murder is CornyA length of iron pipe ended the delivery man's life, so Wolfe's special order of fresh picked corn never arrived.
Worse, the farmer's lovely daughter, semi-engaged to the deceased told the police that Archie Goodwin, one of her former boyfriends, was meeting the man there to have it out with him over a jealous lie.
That's not a blunt instrument, but it leads to a heavy glass vodka bottle that smashed a woman's skull in.
The farmer's daughter is a real ditz, though, as she makes up a story unwittingly putting Archie in the police cross-hairs.
Three great short mystery stories set in the sixties.
3 novellas featuring the rotund detective:"Kill Now — Pay Later" has Nero's bookblack accused of murder and suicide.
His daughter begs Wolfe to clear her father's name and tells him her father had referred to Wolfe as "a great man, the greatest in the world." How could Wolfe resist."Murder Is Corny" has the deliveryman of Wolfe's weekly shipment of sweet corn bludgeoned to death at his prior stop and the police have found his notebook with Archie Goodwin's name listed with three others.
The book comprises three stories: "Kill Now — Pay Later," serialized in three issues of The Saturday Evening Post (December 9, 16 and 23–30 1961) "Murder Is Corny" "Blood Will Tell," first published in Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine (December 1963)
That being said, I've never met a NW/AG story I haven't liked."Kill Now — Pay Later" - Nero is furious when his bootblack is killed - now he has to find a new one.
So when the dead man's daughter asks for help, it doesn't take Archie much prodding to get him involved."Murder Is Corny" - Once again, Nero is affronted when his delivery of corn is completely wrong - never mind the fact the man who delivers it is killed outside Rusterman's.
And even Archie is worth more than the corn to Nero.
Three novellas and the first "Kill Now - Pay Later" was just plain bad.
It felt like the characters were A, B and C with the names inserted when the story was finished.The other two novellas, Murder is Corny" and "Blood Will Tell", extends the partnership of Wolfe and Goodwin, by having the suspicion fall Archie with Wolfe having to decide to extend himself or not and thus openly expose his trust and confidence in Archie.
Confound it!The last two stories added to imaginary world of Wolfe and Goodwin, the impeccable Saul Panzer with a fourth-four orchid room and three squares provided by a four-star chef.
