https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/321645.Kissed_by_an_Angel_The_Power_of_Love_Soulmates
Relectura de una de mis novelas favoritas. Me sigue pareciendo igual de maravillosa. Híper recomendable.
I think the book was written by an amateur It didn't make sense half the time.
The author would say one thing then say something completely different later on in the story.
Like Ivy had been waiting for Suzanne since 6 o'clock.
With that being said, during the second book it seems like "Ivy will never be able to live without her one true love Tristan" bull crap if what they had was anything like what was in the first book she should be able to move on no problem.
I honestly have never read one book in my life that I have disliked.
The discription on the back sounded like it would be a great book.
WOW!!!!
I couldn't put this book down.
The is an amazing love story with a tie in to religion and guardian angels.
Also, there is talk about soul mates.
It is about finding your true love and loosing that love.
I wish Tristan actually existed; I can't speak for every girl, but he seems like that perfect guy if someone can be perfect.
I am sucker for a great love story and this book it that.
I wish there was a continuation with the story of Will and Ivy. I can see this to also be a great love story.
I wish that Ms. Chandler would have played up the romance between Ivy and Tristan a little more.
But I cannot complain too much on the subject because, once I started reading the second book, I was hooked and couldn't put my kindle down.
I am a big fan of mystery, and the second and third books definitely have alot of it.
Thank you, thank you, thank you for letting Ivy and Will be together at the end :) The intro to their relationship was perfectly done and had my heart aching.
This book is just AMAZING!
I love everything!
combination of romance and mystery.
Oh by the way..
it's a tear-jerker too.It's about Ivy and Tristan, they were so deeply in love.
An accident changed everything.
Tristan died in the accident leaving Ivy hurting and depressed, that she lost her faith in Angels..
Tristan became an angel and met Lacey Lovitt, another angel that taught him how to communicate Ivy and try to make her believe in angels.
Tristan found out that their accident wasn't really an accident.
Ivy and Tristan's mission is to find out who caused their accident.
I thought this book was amazing!!
I read all three books in 2 days!
I really wish that in the beginning Ivy & Tristan would have had more time together.
I couldn't believe the ending of book 3 though!
In the back of my mind I knew that her step brother had something to do w/ everything.
It was still shocking though!
I couldn't imagine going through what Ivy went through.
My husband is a Marine and I could not imagine ever losing him.
Of course it is always in the back of my mind until he is done.
He never visits them but he hangs over Ivy like a bad freaking smell.One thing I didn't get is that Tristan had never seen Ivy before the day he fell in love with her, when she was new at school...
I pretty much hate Suzanne, and Gregory's actions often made me feel physically sick to the stomach (view spoiler)[kissing Ivy...
And the only reason Ivy thought it was wrong was because Gregory was supposed to be with Suzanne and Ivy was still in love with Tristan, not because they were related.
(view spoiler)[Like Eric talking to Caroline and then Ivy being unable to work out how Gregory kept getting inside her room.
Dead but he has a purpose before he can move on, to protect Ivy from whoever is trying to kill her.The book started well but I found that after Tristan's death it just went down hill from there.
Other than Tristan I found the characters annoying especially Ivy. She comes across as one of those girls who can't be without a boyfriend.After Tristan saves her and moves on, and is out of her life for good (she could sense closer to the end) she immediately has someone else who she quickly fall in love with.
A este libro le tengo un montón de cariño porque fue el primer regalo que me hizo Vero.
Me lo regaló por mi cumpleaños, y por suerte pudo entregármelo en persona el día que pude abrazarla por primera vez.
Mi querida niña es una persona adorable y detalles como éste los valoro un montón.
(...)6/10Me ha gustado bastante este libro, no en sí como una historia de amor, porque no la considero dentro del género pero sí como una novela de crecimiento, y sobre todo, misterio y fantasía.
El libro me atrapó durante las primeras páginas, Tristán fue mi precioso ángel-fantasma del que estoy enamorada.
When a terrible car accident shatters their world, killing Tristan and injuring Ivy, she must face life alone - or so she thinks.
However, Tristan is watching over her as her guardian angel - so close she can feel his touch and hear his voice.
And no one needs a guardian angel more than Ivy, because someone is trying to kill her.
Will saving Ivy mean losing her forever?This book is absolutely moving!
When I read the description I feel in love with the plot of the book.
This book is a definite must read for all fans of romance, angels and love.
Total waste of time.
The love story the book is based on is so weak that I couldn't have care less if they were together or not.
I had a hard time picturing who they were and even what they looked like.
I found it interesting that the author never referred to cell phones, or texting, or anything of modern technology...it turns out the book was first written in 1995 - When Saga Genesis and VCR's were the height of technology.
Just another author trying to jump on the "Twilight" band wagon.It could have been better if it was condensed into one book, evenly paced, and altogher better writing so that I would care about the characters.
It took time but when she was forced to give up her cat to a trusting home, witch ended up being Tristans, Ivy started liking him back.
Kissed By An Angle is a good read for all of you who jump into the mysteries, murders, and somewhat magical events, kind of book.
I think she had some fun with this book, somehow she new that I would read it and, latterly, start yelling at Ivy for how stupid and innocent she was written to be.
OK, so in order to give 5 stars, I think a book should intrigue me intellectually, emotionally, and spiritually.
Rarely does a novel do all three- especially a young adult novel.
That said, I think this comes close enough.
Plus, I couldn't stop reading it.Intellectually: At least if I hadn't read it before, I would be constantly guessing what would happen next.
It may not strike every adult intellectually, but it's perfect for an adolescent.
(I know because I was one when I fell in love with this trilogy.)Emotionally: Love, family, death, fear, frustration...
La verdad es que después de lo mucho que me ha gustado el libro no sé si me atrevo a estropearlo leyendo los siguientes porque la trilogía tiene un desenlace totalmente cerrado y han pasado unos 15 años desde que la escribió.A simple vista, la historia es como cualquier otra: dos adolescentes, instituto estadounidense, chico que se enamora a primera vista y chica que pasa de él porque tiene cosas más importantes.
Me ha gustado mucho que la autora no se centre solo en la historia de amor sino que, poco a poco, en dosis muy bien medidas, a medida que iba leyendo iba descubriendo nuevas piezas del puzzle que me mantuvo intrigada hasta las páginas finales.
I am going to count all 3 as 1 book though because that's how it felt when I was reading it.Ivy is devastates when her boyfriend Tristan, the love of her life suddenly dies.
Usually in book I can guess what's going to happen but I was completely shocked and it took me completely by surprise.Elizabeth Chandler did a great job sucking you into the story and I became so attached to the characters.
It's a great ending and I was so happy with it.However I can't wait to read book 4 and am really looking forward to seeing what's going to happen next.
I absolutely love this book!
This book was soooooo much more than that and even had some pretty brutal/disturbing scenes...I'm really glad I'd re-ordered this book cause there was loads of suspense and PLENTY of action not to mention some shocking, shocking discoveries.
There were loads of genres in this story romance, paranormal, mystery and definitely action.
The characters and storyline were very well thought of also the scene with Ella (Ivy's cat) made me cry (partly cause I'm a sucker for animals).This book is definitely worthy of the title "bestseller" cause sooooo much happens.
I'd definitely recommend this to ANYONE.
Spoilers!!!
Man, this book was good, when I first started reading this book, I knew Gregory was the because of Tristin dying.
Even on the second page of the book I was like Gregory is up to no good.
He did all of that for what to keep Ivy quite or because he didn't want Ivy to live with Andrew, who isn't his father.
I'm so glad he died, in the end, he was starting to get on my last nerves.
My only wish was for Tristen to become human again.
And wish he actually knew that Lacey actually in love with him.
I will always love her Dark Secrets series the best! This one, not as much because I didn't like Ivy that much. I would have liked Tristan more if he wasn't constantly moaning over Ivy. Yet in the end, the both of them had a mystery to solve, and Ivy is your classic damsel in distress while Tristan is the classic hero. Overall a relatively quick read.
Other than Ivy this novel includes some great characters.Tristan: He is the strong and loving male lead that falls deep for Ivy, and refuses to stop loving her even after death.Gregory: Ivy's popular stepbrother.
We spend a good majority of the novel waiting for Tristan to finally break through to Ivy all over again.
Tristan tries this in many ways by trying to talk through her best friend Beth and a secret admirer Will.
Although Tristan has nothing to worry about because Ivy has closed herself off to love and she tries to keep her distance from Will for fear of what could happen between them.This story is great!
and then when so found tristian was the best time in the book or one of them.
i love lacey.
but she was an awsome charcter and when she said she fell in love when tristian was leaving i tink she fell in love with tristain.but im soo happpy ivy found will, and this whole book it thought suzanne was a bitch, because of how she would say ivy was horrible by stealing her man when he was going on to her and ivy was tring to potect her the the killer gregory.
who killed his mom, tristian, a girl in ridgemond, and ella:((((.and almost killed ivy twice.
but i loved how it ended ivy and will.
i wonder if the next book has to do with lacey and her quest she was tever really comcluded.
This book was definitely not as good as I thought it would be.
I picked it up because I was going to be dog-sitting for a couple of weeks and needed something to do.
It's definitely written for a younger age group, maybe 11 or 12 year olds.
The book is essentially 3 books in one.
Book one was bearable, though still not very good.
Book two!
Oh my gosh, it took me 4 months to finish book two after finishing book one in 2 hours.
And I (gasp) kind of liked the plot line in book one.
Absolutely amazed with this book.
I've never been a fan of books written in the third person, but this one I enjoyed very much.
Although the Elizabeth Chandler doesn't quite state in character conversations what is being said aloud and what is being said in the mind you will soon pick up and guess what is said aloud and what is not, by that I mean the use of italics that other authors tend to do.Other than that I would definitely reccommend this book to everyone.
[Tuesday, August 4, 2010] I started this book. But couldn't finish it past chapter 4![Wednesday, March 30, 2011] I reached chapter nine, and I think Tristan is such a great guy, but Ivy'a step-brother is creepy. I felt sorry when Ivy had to give up her cat Ella, I had to do the same to my cat Miri.[Tuesday, February 26, 2013] This year I plan to read all the books that I left hanging, so this is the second on the list. I had to re-read the few chapters to remember what the book was about, in any
I felt sorry when Ivy had to give up her cat Ella, I had to do the same to my cat Miri.[Tuesday, ‎February ‎26, ‎2013] This year I plan to read all the books that I left hanging, so this is the second on the list.
I had to re-read the few chapters to remember what the book was about, in any case, I like it immensely so far, can't wait to see what will happen next, though I have a hunch.
I liked reading something written in the 90s, it felt cute and strange reading about people not having mobiles and so on.
This book actually made me cry.
Seriously.
Couldn't stop.
Especially the stuff with Tristan and for some reason, also when she was making out with Greg.
Don't know why.
Maybe because I got so mad at Ivy for doing it.
Why did she kiss him, anyway?
She still loved tristan and Will, but she goes and kisses him, anyway.
It just grossed me out to oblivion.I don't think I'll be reading it again, mostly because books like these make me cry and the whole kissing the stepbrother thing made me mad at Ivy, for unexplainable reasons.
I was liking this book until the last 100 or so pages.
Then, all of a sudden animal abuse was thrown in.
An animal, very dear to the heroine, was abused and then murdered by being hung by her neck from a nail in the basement.
I can't handle reading stuff like that.
It was a pretty small part of the book, but very upsetting to me.
It made me never want to read the book again or recommend it to anyone.
It was totally unnecessary to the storyline and it was the only time during the entire book that I cried.
I love these books. I started with Soulmate. I just grabbed it while walking though the bookstore and then I had to buy the first two to find out what happened. The love between Tristan and Ivy is so real and tender that the book seriously made me cry. Elizabeth Chandler weaves a love story with a mystery so well that in the end you are praying for the bad guy to be gone and for Ivy to fall in love again.
#CompNtBkOwn in paperback.FS: "I never knew how romantic a backseat could be, Ivy said, resting against it, smiling at Trista."LS: "The angels will swear to it, he said, then pulled her down for a kiss."
omg loved this series!
Will also seemed to like Ivy too, which made Tristan jealous, but knew that was the way that he could get inside of him and control him, and also tried Beth and Philip to try and warn Ivy once again.Basically the whole rest of the book was Tristan, observing Ivy, trying to connect with her, but found nothing worked while Gregory kept getting closer and closer to Ivy, and Ivy taking comfort him especially her nightmares would arise from the night of the accident with different pieces of information coming to her mind from that night and from other night, which she doesn't understand.
Personajes totalmente planos, una trama absolutamente falta de argumento, las subtramas a las que tanto jugo se le podía haber sacado quedan en segundo plano por no haber sido capaz de llevarlas, personajes como Lacey (a la que amo), Beth (con la que me casaría), incluso Tristan y Gregory (en cuya mente me hubiera encantado meterme), todos ellos quedan mal tratados y en segundo plano, a cambio de eso tenemos a Ivy todo un estereotipo andante.
Si me terminé el libro fue únicamente por dos razones, Lacey (quien me parece mega injusto su final) y la manía de terminarme siempre todos los libros que inicio y en este caso, tener el derecho de poder darle una única estrella pero que de verdad...
