https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/944334.All_My_Friends_are_Superheroes
I read this in a few hours on a train trip and thoroughly enjoyed it.
It's a story about a woman who has been hypnotized into thinking that her husband is invisible the night of their wedding.
After a few months of not seeing her husband she gets on a plane to abandon the relationship, but she doesn't know that he has been beside her this entire time and has this last plane ride to convince her that he's there!
I would definitely read this again, or at least flip through the profiles of all the hilarious superheroes!
Superheroes include: the Couch Surfer (“Empowered with the ability to sustain life and limb without a job, steady companion or permanent place of residence”), the Falling Girl, the Shadowless Man, the Inverse (“Shake the Inverse’s hand and the exact opposite of your life will flash before your eyes”), The Projectionist, Hypno… and with the addition of an anxiety monster appearing at the door when, you guessed it, you’re feeling anxious (“There are two ways to get rid of an anxiety monster, my friend – you either have a bath or a nap.”).This humorous love story between a normal man and a super-heroine, The Perfectionist, explores the power of ignoring someone and how it can drive them crazy or close to it...
They are SUPERHEROES with SUPER POWERS!
There's The Businessman who can calculate the net worth of passersby, The Couch Surfer, a man imbued with the ability to live off of his friends' generosity, and Tom's new bride, The Perfectionist, whose source of power is her need for order.
Alas, their love story goes pear shaped on their wedding day when a suggestion made by one of Perf's old beaus, Hypno, makes Tom invisible to his wife.
And now, it's confession time.I, too, am a superhero.
I am empowered with the ability to remember conversations (yes - only conversations, not impressive things like obscure historical facts or sports scores).
3  stars.  It'll make you smile. The perfect mental gargle after a few heavy novels, creative and just plain fun. Fantasy with a judicious touch of magical realism, everyone in it's a superhero (except for the main character) but they’re subtle about it, we're not talking a bunch of flamboyant cape wearers. Instead each person’s strongest characteristic is what defines their super-power, bet you’ll find yourself wondering what yours would be... It can be silly, so prepare for a few eye rolling m
It’s darker and I thought quite a bit better, but that's more about my personal taste - I like dark.So if you're into stories that are strange and unusual, give this one a try.
Cons:  I need more fleshed out characters.
This one’s got about 40 which is seriously too many for a 120 page book:) Don’t worry though, they make brief appearances flowing in and out of the story - no need to try and keep track of them at all.
He knocks on doors and stands there.
You'd be surprised how few doors get answered."
This is such a nice, short fairytale. Nothing more. You can read it in less than a half hour. Makes you feel happy and full of awe at Kaufman's wonderful story writing ability.
But then again if I had finished it without pause I wouldn't have known what it was like to put it down and feel the need to pick it up again.There's not much I can tell you without spoiling it BUT it is a wonderful love story AND the superhero metaphors work really well 98% of the time.To list some comparitive adjectives may be the simplest way to review it: funny NOT hilarious, nice NOT brilliant, short and sweet NOT epic and overly descriptive, playful NOT absurd.My least favourite aspect are the short interludes where Kaufman introduces some other superheroes, most of which are trying too hard to be funny and fail completely and I do mean eye-rollingly bad attempts at jokes that might have been funny if i'd read this when it was first released in 1999 and I was 17.edit: I'm just floating this review in an immature contest to be the most liked versus Leah's review of the same book which is actually better than mine.
A perfectly sweet little book.
It has something of the romantic comedy about it, and something delightfully quirky that I have come to associate with Canadian creations - although admittedly I am mostly thinking of Scott Pilgrim here.
Now that I think about it, there was a lot of the slightly surreal sweetness of this book in the recent Australian film Griff the Invisible.As with many short stories and short novels, I can see this being a really lovely movie, done properly.
I think the quote on the back said it best, that this book would be replacing flowers and chocolates as romantic gifts in the future.
Well, let's start from the cover: "Buy it, borrow it, steal it but just make sure you read it".
I think the author wanted to be all deep and profound, trying to convey a message camouflaged under a weird story (is there a story?
Well, if there was a message, I thought it was VERY, VERY well camouflaged.
I really can't understand it - maybe it's just me, but how can you define this 'an adorable book' or an 'ode to love built to last'?!
I'm usually cheesy enough to understand this kind of thing, but maybe this book goes beyond my 'superpowers' - after all, I'm just a 'regular'.
This was a very fast but cute read. The story is so imaginative. I liked the things that made people into superheroes and the way that affected their lives. And the story about Tom and The Perfectionist is just so cute. I couldn't put it down!Reread this February 2016 and just loved it like the first time. Go read it, if you haven't yet!

The title of this book is "All my friends are Superheroes."Congratulations, you have now read the one good thing this book has to offer.
La donna in questione non è una donna qualunque ma sua moglie.
Quando sta per atterrare a Vancouver Perf cerca di utilizzare i suoi poteri per dimenticare questa triste vicenda che le sta logorando il cuore e Tom ha così pochissimo tempo per cercare di farsi vedere da lei ritornando visibile.Si tratta di una bellissima storia d’amore, molto originale e per quanto drammatica possa essere è stata anche una storia a tratti divertente.
At the exact moment, the Perfectionist fell in love with Tom.[…] ‘We’re here,’ the Clock says.
‘Clock, what is it?’ asks the Perfectionist.
There are better ways to pass the time than reading 100 pages of saccharine whimsy. This book is so cute I want to punch its face in.
Reading this book felt like spending time with some of the best books of my childhood, but then the adult version.The story is about Tom, a regular non-superhero, who married a superhero (‘The Perfectionist’).
But given the way it’s written, it’s not very hard to go a level deeper and realize that being unique is just one small step away from being a superhero – it all depends on your definition.
‘Someday’ has red hair, a compact frame and two superheroes: an amazing ability to think big and an unlimited capacity to procrastinate.Another theme is the Power of Love, and what it in the end can pull of, no matter what the odds and obstacles are.
A clever little book and a very quick read (it's actually only 88 pages, since there are a lot of blank pages and it starts on page 7!). Had the Goldsmiths Prize (given to innovation in the novel form) been around back in 2004, it would have been a shoe-in to at least be nominated, if not indeed win. Basically a modern day fable on the difficulties in fitting in and finding true love, I think anyone can relate to at least parts of it.
Well I am late for work and might have cried.
Super citanie! Krasne. Vesele aj smutne. Uplne mi to sadlo. Cital som original v anglictine, ze by aj to prispelo k tomuto zazitku? Kazdopadne chcem od tohto autora citat viac :)
Such a creative take on superheroes. I loved their powers. The story is so adorable :) the perfect cure for a reading hangover. Loved it ❤️
First off, I really enjoyed the simplicity of the world and the magic that comes with it, but honestly, I couldn't stop thinking of Carrie!
Personally, I enjoyed the story more than the Superheroes, but a lot of them really made me stop and think.
Half the time I read about a Superhero and just think they are an exaggerated version of the worst/best traits in society.
Honestly, to some extent I think the Superheroes represent the average of society only turned to 100.
If you are looking for light magic or an escape from the world, I'd check this book out.
In around a 100 pages Andrew Kaufman takes the wonderful idea of everyday features taken to superhero heights through a simple love story.
Then one day, a Wednesday, he just said, 'Fuck it!' He threw his hands up into the air and said, 'Fuck it!' This was the day that the sloth discovered his superpower, an amazing ability to say 'Fuck it' and really, truly mean it.” The Stress BunnyIf you arrive at a party and suddenly find yourself completely relaxed, there's a good chance the Stress Bunny is there.
This book was a sweet surprise. I picked it up by chance at a yard sale knowing nothing about it. I started it before bed and when I forgot to take it to work with me the next day, all I could think about was when I could go home to finish it. Completely charming.EDIT: I have lent this book to three people since I've read it, and all loved it. Even those who are not prolific readers devoured it quickly and joyfully.
I absolutely loved the ideas in this book.
The superheroes and their powers were fantastic and I loved how unique and strange they all were.
I liked what the powers represented and I thought there were some lovely messages in here.
Part of me thinks that maybe if it was slightly longer and some of the plot and the main two characters were slightly more developed then I may have enjoyed it even more but then I'm not sure because if the book was longer it might lose some of the fantasy and the mystery to it.
Overall, I did very much enjoy this book and there were elements to it that I did love even though I didn't necessarily love the whole story itself.
What a wonderful, beautiful, heartbreakingly romantic little book.
I don’t want to say too much about this book, because knowing too much about it ahead of time would ruin a first time reading.
What I will say is this book is simple and quick (120 pages) and something everyone should read.
The paragraph-long descriptions of superheroes, for example, would have been more interesting as actual characters with whom the protagonist was forced to interact, rather than merely a clever reappropriation of the mundane as extraordinary.Regardless, the story and main characters are interesting as is the author's ideas about what constitutes a superhero.
Quirky, clever, charming ...
just not long enough.Also, and this might seem a strange thing to say, but it's written on absolutely marvelous paper.
A beautiful vignette into a world set slightly askew to our own in which all of Tom's friends really are superheroes while he is a Regular and - more tragically - invisible to his wife, The Perfectionist. Andrew Kaufman writes with perfect humour, the right balance of detail and a sense of Tom's longing to be seen present throughout. I loved it; if Kaufman were a superhero no doubt he'd be The One Full of Little Truths You Never Really Thought About.
An interesting concept wasn't properly used, that's how this book felt. There were information all over the places, which weren't relevant at all. Main story was tiny and rest of things felt like filler. Some places read nice, and if this was made a short story with only the main part then I would have rated it 4 stars at least. Either way, I guess this was not my cup of tea. Romance lovers can try this out if they may.
This was a wonderful book. I loved it so much I went to the trouble of writing a full review on my website. You can check it out here: What kind of superhero are you?
As much as I appreciated the concept and delightful way Kaufman executes it, the story failed to warm my heart the way I expected it to. Plenty of quirk, but overall I was rather bored by the narrative and didn't find it entirely cohesive. (2.5)
Short, sweet book.Kaufam's take on superheroes and their "powers" is so original and thought provoking. The best, and most interesting take on a relationship story that I've ever read. It was't too long or drawn out either. Like a burst of citrus, it was refreshing and short.
“There are two ways to get rid of an anxiety monster my friend-you either have a bath or a nap.” All My Friends Are Superheroes by Andrew Kaufman is about a guy called Tom who has superheroes for friends and he even marries one.
It’s a love story told in a very unique way and for those who don’t enjoy reading books like that I urge you to try it.
It’s a visceral story full of humour and very relatable nods to what we as humans experience at some point in our lives.
