https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/303675.Bride_of_Pendorric
So we've got a rechristened Retro Reads GR group (for early- to mid-20th century nostalgic type reads, mostly historical fiction with some mysteries and romances mixed in), and there's an upcoming buddy read of Victoria Holt's Mistress of Mellyn in about two weeks.
So to distract myself from that one, I opened up Bride of Pendorric, and read the whole thing last night (it's only a couple of hundred pages in this book).It's a pretty classic novel of the gothic romance type, published in 1963 and set in that era.
This was the first gothic romance novel I ever read -- in 7th or 8th grade -- and I'm giving it a "5" because I loved it so much at that time!
It was a transitional book for me, an adult romance/mystery after having read all the Nancy Drew series and Scholastic book selections for young readers, etc.
If I were to read it again now, I might not feel the same way; so I probably won't!
All the books we read add something to our minds, and surely lead us on to other books that will be important in further stages of life, so it's all good.
Also the main character, Favel (yes that's her name) was uber frustrating since she just tra la las during most of this book though she believes someone is out to kill her."Bride of Pendorric" is about a young woman who marries a random guy (Roc Pendorric) that shows up to her father's studio to buy some paintings.
Favel and her father live somewhere off the coast of Italy getting by with him selling his art after the death of her mother.The beginning of this book reminded me a bit of the beginning of "Rebecca".
Victoria Holt had clearly swotted up on   &   before writing this doom laden account of a young girl's infatuation & marriage to an older man. After her father's unexpected death, Roc whisks Favel from Capri to Cornwall where she is terrorised by the legend of the Brides of Pendorric.While reading I found Favel's constant unease surprising in one so young (nineteen) but she was completely on her own & married to a man she barely knew. So I'm cutting her some slack.A major weakness fo
After her father's unexpected death, Roc whisks Favel from Capri to Cornwall where she is terrorised by the legend of the Brides of Pendorric.While reading I found Favel's constant unease surprising in one so young (nineteen) but she was completely on her own & married to a man she barely knew.
& there were far to many characters to keep track of & a lot of them didn't add much to the story.(view spoiler)[I thought I had guessed the solution early but I missed some obvious clues.
(hide spoiler)]The ending felt forced & rushed, but I loved this book as a teen so I'm giving it a charitable 4*["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
The ultimate gothic classic! Madness, secrets, crypts, suspicious husbands, cliffs and moors... it never gets old.
Eking out a living with her widowed father in his art studio on the island of Capri, Favel is swept off her feet by visitor Roc Pendorric and they are married, although her happiness is marred by the sudden death of her father.
Upon arrival at Roc's Cornwall estate, Favel learns of the legend of the Brides of Pendorric - married into the family for their money and die mysterious deaths at a young age and then destined to haunt the halls until another bride dies and takes her place.
Favel was a lovely heroine, if a little unsure.
And I am not surprised that she was so unsure, how can you not be when people don't tell you what's happening?
From two twins set on her becoming one of The Brides to accidents happening a little too soon after the others for comfort and being locked in a crypt, something is afoot and it's enough to craze the most stable of us.
There were three sets of twins.
Then Wenna's set, Hyson and Lowella.
Hyson and Lowella were the hardest to tell the difference between, because they played each other so well.
It is hard for me to be objective about this book and to keep from comparing it to Daphne Du Maurier's Rebecca since it is so obviously inspired by it.
I just couldn't take it seriously.
Way over the top, heavy-handed, and ridiculous, with that cliche dumb as a post heroine who refuses to see what is staring at her in the face, and a so-called hero who spends so much time away from the action that he truly seems more ghost like than the departed Barbarina (that name!), the malevolent spirit who torments the newest bride of Pendorric.
So many sets of twins and such a cliched way of combining twins and suspense narratives *sigh*
Recently, I've decided to revisit cherished writers and well loved books of the past; Victoria Holt, and the genre of 'gothic suspense/romance is one of many on my list. The Bride of Pendorric is a reread for me, and I thoroughly enjoyed my new endeavor. The book did not disappoint; many gothic elements are well presented. The looming estate in Cornwall, a cast of colorful and deceitful characters, a romantic intrigue with the hint of a ghostly presence and of course, underlying dark currents run steadily through this wonderful novel.
I enjoyed it! Review to follow.
There were a few heartwarming moments, like with the old Lord Polhorgan (is that it?).
Ok, here's the summary:Favel marries Roc Pendorric, and goes to live with him and his sister, Morwenna and nieces, Hyson and Lyson.
There is a legend surrounding the place that the last Bride (Roc's mother, Barbarina) haunts the quadrangle and will kill the next bride so she can rest in peace at last.
After a while, she makes a few friends like Lord Polhorgan (view spoiler)[ who we soon discover is her Grandfather.
(hide spoiler)] But she begins to wonder about Roc's faithfulness and love, due to his previous romances, Dinah Bond, Rachel Bective and Althea Grey.
In fact, the husband is gone much of the time on business and I got the feeling he was 'in the way' of what Holt wanted to do with Favel.
This time through I picked up on at least one oddity: the main character Favel's smoking habits.
It was still a good story, though I could guess the ending (I had forgotten most of this book) and had the villan picked out before the ending, but I figure that is just because they had to write in such a controlled way back then.
I read this book many years ago as a young girl and I remember loving it. It is written in the 1st person point of view and is categorized as a gothic romance. One of my favorite genres from that time of my life.
Despite her love and affection for Roc, Favel quickly begins to feel suspicious of those around her and begins to distrust not only Roc's fidelity, but also his possible murderous intent.
I have a major weakness for gothic romance novels and the fact that I've just now discovered Victoria Holt totally baffles me.
Bride of Pendorric is everything a gothic romance should be.
I also love it that I thought I had it figured out, but ended up being totally wrong.
Bride of Pendorric is more than a romance.
Once Favel and Roc arrive at the ancestral home of the Pendorrics on the coast of Cornwall, Favel discovers the family legend of the “Bride of Pendorric”, where one who died became a ghost until replaced by another.
There are some surprises in this story, one is a truth Favel learns when she befriends an old man living in the neighboring estate, a self-made man who takes a liking to Favel.
With Roc having so many female admirers, Favel begins to wonder if one of them wouldn't like to take her place.The ending may be a surprise but Holt did her best to string out the great reveal.
Favel Farrington was living with her artist father on the beautiful Isle of Capri when Roc Pendorric from Cornwall came into their studio one day and swept Favel off her feet.Roc was a charmer from the beginning and soon they were wed, but the day was overshadowed by her father’s drowning death.
There are some surprises in this story, one is a truth Favel learns when she befriends an old man living in the neighboring estate, a self-made man who takes a liking to Favel.
It’s a truth hidden from her by her new husband.While Favel is falling in love with Cornwall, accidents begin to happen that threaten her life.
Gothic novels are my thing, and I'm a big fan of Victoria Holt. Bride of Pendorric was a nice surprise -- family secrets, paintings of unfortunate brides, twins (twins run in the Pendorric family) - including the identical pair nicknamed Hy and Lo, nieces of Favel's new husband. This book kept me guessing, with plots and twists throughout. Very long chapters (only 7 chapters!), but I was engrossed by this story, and by the Pendorrics, who live in an incredible castle, that is almost like a character itself...
The only reason this re-read of my youth isn't 4 stars is it's contemporary setting. (Well, contemporary to when it was written--1964.) And I had to try and forget the heroine was 19 . . . married to a 32-year-old.
The boldface on the book jacket demanding to be read like a hollywood movie demanding to be seen.
In light of my pollyanna-ish, which he distained thoroughly, he gave me My Last Duchess by Browning in a poetry class of the great classic English Poets.
Fortunately, I was of an age I was no longer escorted out of the adult section in the library, so I read more and more classics, of which he mocked us announcing that we did not have enough life in us to neither comprehend nor write our own.
This spine tingling mystery, keeps you turning the pages, as you get deeper and deeper into this book.
She's married Roc Pendoric, a mysterious man that she has fallen in love with and married, but when her father mysteriously drowns, Favel know that Roc is not telling her something.
This book will keep you spell bound, as you try to unlock the mysteries and secrets about Pendoric and the people who live there.
The whole time I was trying to figure out if Roc really loved her, and was faithful to her or was he lying to her, and if so why?
Victoria Holt was her pseudonym for writing Gothic romance and these books are wonderful and old-fashioned and fun to read.
I've also read The Mistress of Mellyn although I thought it was just okay.
I grabbed this one because I'm reading books published in my birth year and I'm glad I did.This was great fun!
The Cornish setting combined with mysterious and dangerous happenings, family surprises, sexy nurses and governesses with husband-stealing on their minds, and (I kid you not) evil twins - this makes for lots of Gothic fun and some chills and thrills.
Great escapist reading.
When I picked up this book, I was expecting nothing more than a bit of gothic fluff.
Surprisingly, it turned out to be amazingly good!The cover image on my edition suggests that the story is a 19th century gothic horror/romance.
When I discovered that, I was somewhat tempted to just put it down again, because I'm not fond of contemporary romance.
I'm glad I did.The book turned out to be more of a gothic mystery/romance, and light on the gothic at that.
An old book, but definitely a winner.
The thing that made this book good for me was the ending.
I am usually pretty good at predicting plot twists but this one I did not see coming.
The rest of the book I thought was not that interesting however.
They repeated things so many times that it became dull.
She would visit and do the same things OVER and OVER again.
I was also really disappointed with the love story.
(end of spoiler) If your not reading it for the love story then I recommend it.
This is a fine book even though I didn't particularly enjoy it until the end.
Holt's little mystery has elements of nearly everything that has come before in this Gothic suspense novel, but her ability to make the writing feel charmingly archaic is notable in itself.
She has a particular talent for building a feeling of sinister unease, and the ending is actually quite satisfying.
That said, I did think she set herself up to fail by developing the protagonist's husband a certain way, because the ending renders a lot of the previous development moot.
Still, it's a fun little read, great for a weekend of bumming around the house--just when you're ready for a little bit of escapism.
Enoyed this romantic suspence, even though I thought there were unrealistic moments when the fearful feelings of Favel were overplayed.
Favel, and only child, falls in love with Roc, a stranger visiting her island and becomes engaged.
Shortly after her father dies, but she continues on with her marriage as Roc is her only friend and family left and goes to live in his mansion of a home with his family.
Soon she finds her life in jeopardy, but doesn't know who to trust including her own husband who she is still desperately in love with.
Well, this isn't my usual genre, so maybe I had too high hopes.
But I'd heard the author compared to Mary Stewart, whom I love, so I thought I'd give it a try.
I did rather like the heroine, who was just about the only character with more than one dimension, and not annoyingly gullible.
But the plot twists were predictable, the overall plot lacked any depth--it was based solely on not guessing the one main plot twist, and the solutions were revealed in a very lazy way.
And the romance was insipid, probably because the guy had no real presence.
It says on the cover that this is "the classic novel of romantic suspense." Romantic? Not so much. But suspense? OH YEAH. Towards the end I couldn't put it down because I just had to see what happened! I totally did not guess the mystery until just before it was revealed. The way it was written at that point was super creepy, too. Not really plausible, but heart-in-your-mouth suspenseful. *shivers*
Books written by Victoria Holt are so cheesy, but sometimes that's exactly what you need. I've read a loooot of her books when I was 14/15 years old..that was the last time I've read them. I absolutely loved them at the time. I'm thinking of reading one of her books just for the old times sake! =)
I liked this. I loved the main character but wasn't too sure about anyone else until the end. The mystery was good (although I figured it out before the reveal). This novel kind of keeps you thinking the whole time.
