https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55030.Cosmos
Can I give this one ten stars? If I had a religion, I would be a Carl Saganian. Love him so much.
إن تأملنا أنفسنا من منظور كونيفإن كل واحد منا لا يقدر بثمنإن خالفك إنساناً في الرأي ، فدعه يعيشففي مائة بليون مجرة لن تجد واحداً غيره! هذا باختصار هو كارل ساجان (أو سيجن) أيتها البشريةواحد من أعظم العلماء الذين أنجبتهم هذه الأرضليس فقط لإسهاماته العلمية ، ولكن لإنسانيته التي تدعو حقاً للتأملفي الحقيقة هذا الرجل يذهلني بقدرته على ربط الخيوط ببعضها وجعل العلم والفلسفة والأساطير والأدب مترابطين في مقالاته الساحرة ببهاء ورونق عجيب وخاص جدّاً;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;إن كان لديك عزيز شغوف بالعلم ولا يعرف من
هذا باختصار هو كارل ساجان (أو سيجن) أيتها البشريةواحد من أعظم العلماء الذين أنجبتهم هذه الأرضليس فقط لإسهاماته العلمية ، ولكن لإنسانيته التي تدعو حقاً للتأملفي الحقيقة هذا الرجل يذهلني بقدرته على ربط الخيوط ببعضها وجعل العلم والفلسفة والأساطير والأدب مترابطين في مقالاته الساحرة ببهاء ورونق عجيب وخاص جدّاً;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;إن كان لديك عزيز شغوف بالعلم ولا يعرف من أين يبدأ قراءاته عرّفه على كارل ساجان فقلّما نجد عالِـماً يتمتّع بهذا القدر من الإنسانية وهذا الكمَ المهول من الثقافةلم أجد عالِما بهذه الروح الشفافة سواهإن عدم شرح العلم يبدو لي شيئاً غير منطقيافعندما نقع في الحب, تنتابنا رغبة في إخبار العالم بأسره
I could write a review in the conventional format, leaving you with a gentle nudge to read this book as soon as you can.Or, instead, I could simply write about how, despite being more than 30 years outdated, Carl Sagan's voice of reason rings truer than ever, cutting through the heart of all the din and chaos of our troubled times.
I could just tell you how Sagan's deep and abiding love for nature and humanity reverberates in every page of this work and how our scientific endeavours across timelines and geographical boundaries, across the unending void which surrounds us on all sides, symbolize our collective pursuit of knowledge.
Gosh, I should not use the term ‘absolutely’ for something in which everything orbits around relativity.Anyway, I think something like this would give a better idea of my opinion about this book: my rating is an universe of zillions to the power of zillions of stars, …and expanding.
What a treat this has been to have Carl Sagan in the little and measurable and limited space of my living room, bringing home and explaining to me, the immensity of all that space and dust and gas and light and fire and immeasurable time.Sagan’s mind is truly cosmic, in scope and in outlook.
I saw the TV series years before I read the book. I'm glad I did; I was able to project the image and voice of Carl Sagan into the words on the page. If there is a better science related, non-fiction book out there, please, someone point it out to me.Revised Oct. 2017.

Not exactly what one might expect from a book largely concerned with science, but this is just one of many qualities that makes it not only endearing to the reader, but also--and perhaps more importantly--accessible, making even the smattering of complex equations seem casual and undaunting.Aside from the beauty of its prose, which is at times poetic in its depth and its eloquence, Cosmos is also wholly engaging and fascinating in the depth and scope of its subects.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Flexible Belts: "Cosmos" by Carl Sagan(Original Review, 1980-11-17)A lot of talk has been going on about the flaws in Carl Sagan's COSMOS series.
These flaws center on either Sagan's unusual speaking style and acting(?) abilities, or the show's contents.
Yes, he is short on reasons and long on visual effects, and, yes, he talks as if the viewer did not know the obvious.
What we are all forgetting is this: the average person doesn't know what we would consider "obvious".
We should realize that Carl Sagan has his work cut out for him making science digestible for the average person.
To read a small passage and follow it up with a sleep filled with dreams of all those stars dying and being born every passing moment.To recall, days of childish innocence gazing towards the infinite.Gazing in anticipation of recognizing a constellation or an anticipated meteor shower.To pause while reading and reflect, wonder.
To attempt understanding things with closed eyes.To hear back from the infinite, after all these many years.
To look at things with not just your eyes.
To be looked back from an infinite distance, with your own eyes.To the journeys we could take each night, only if we gave ourselves the chance to.To Pause.To realize that this moment ephemeral as it is, and only one among a multiple of possible moments,still IS.
For a scientist, his prose had a literary style that is enjoyable to read, and he injected a sense of philosophy into his passionate account of the origins and marvels of the cosmos.
I do find that the delivery was quite heavy-handed in trying to instill that sense of awe and wonder into the reader.
Regardless, Cosmos is still a good primer to read for those who are interested in learning more about the universe and our world before venturing into more recent writings from the likes of Stephen Hawkings (may he rest in peace) and Neil deGrasse Tyson.
Cosmos is required reading for everyone who lives on this planet.
It will give you a sense of perspective that nothing else can -- no lofty ideology, no omniscient religion, no inspiring quotations can explain things quite as clearly as Carl Sagan's treatise on science, reality, and the nature of things in this universe.
An extraterrestrial visitor, looking at the differences among human beings and their societies, would find those differences trivial compared to the similarities.
If a human disagrees with you, let him live.
In a hundred billion galaxies, you will not find another.- Carl Sagan, Cosmos
Popular science television shows can teach the public about quantum theory but anything over ten years old is pretty much out of date.
How can a publication on general science over thirty-five years out of date be relevant in the world today?
The story of science, our understanding of the cosmos, is, of course, our view as humanity.
It’s destruction and the murder of Hypatia a low point.
Cosmos remains a book about science and a book about mankind and his quest for knowledge as well the suppression of knowledge.
Re-visit 2016:1: The Shores of the Cosmic Ocean: After an introduction by Ann Druyan, including the benefits of the end of the Cold War, Carl Sagan opens the program with a description of the cosmos and a "Spaceship of the Imagination" (shaped like a dandelion seed).
The episode ends with the possibility of the terraforming and colonization of Mars and a Cosmos Update on the relevance of Mars' environment to Earth's and the possibility of a manned mission to Mars.6: Traveller's Tales: The journeys of the Voyager probes is put in the context of the Netherlands in the seventeenth century, with a centuries-long tradition of sailing ship explorers, and its contemporary thinks (such as Constantijn Huygens and his son Christian).
Building on the works of geniuses who introduced us to this fascinating, mind boggling universe of ours.After giving us a general idea of our ‘cosmic address’, Sagan moves on to Darwin and his discovery of Natural Selection as the engine of Evolution.
He admits that as a child, he spent hours contemplating about the possibility of intelligent life on other planets.
Although our search for intelligent life has been a failure (even on Earth), Sagan aspires to make contact with the dwellers of distant worlds.
As we observe the immensity of the observable universe, we can be more than certain that life does exist elsewhere but we don’t know what it will be like.
Wonderful perspectives, marvelous photos and drawings, beautifully written ... considers the hugeness of space and the tiniest atom, all connected ... somehow ... Cosmos has stood the test of time (yes, that's a pun) ... I have read several books on this topic in preparation for a course at Oxford on Cosmology ... this is the best
This book was my bible when I was an enemy of God. As a stubbornly devout atheist, this was the book I turned to for justification of my proud and arrogant rejection of my Creator. Instead of reading this pile of conjecture, I recommend reading the Holy Bible (then get on your knees and repent before the holy God who gave you life and sent His Son, Jesus Christ, to pay the penalty for your lawlessness and sin). :-)

From the lush illustration and clever diagrams clear through to Sagan's lyrical and at times whimsical narrative, this is the science book for non-scientists.
(And if you are a scientist, may this be a lesson in how to tell your story.) Sagan makes the astronomy and the math and the mind-boggling complexity of the universe not only comprehensible but palatable.
The book is dense but Sagan paces it well, makes you hungry for every anecdote about Kepler or Pythagoras, thirsty for the decimal-laden scientific notation.And then there was the moment that blew my mind; tucked away in a footnote about telescopic "snapshots" of galaxies:...The near side of a galaxy is tens of thousands of light-years closer to us than the far side; thus we see the front as it was tens of thousands of years before the back.
The new source of wonder had become love – falling in love, finding the purpose in another human being, the complete merging of body and soul.Once I entered the world of adults, I realised that I knew nothing.
And then I started to seek answers, cosmic answers.Suddenly, it feels like a meteorite has hit my little planet.
Carl Sagan made me feel like a scientist.
I have been intimidated by physics and chemistry all my life and now it is time to catch up.My gut tells me that Sagan is not right in completely rejecting astrology, the occult or religion, but I choose to trust him because he has managed to put into simple words concepts that have scared away so many people for so long.
The best book ever written.A masterful work encompassing the whole of human existence and the univer
I wish I had LOVED this book as Carl Sagan is an icon. It was entertaining, if you ignore the fact that it is VERY dated (I mean, 40+ years dated), which is not its fault. However, I much prefer A Short History of Nearly Everything for a review of the same information.
How little we know.Finally I finished this book last night at about 23:00.
This is one of the best popular scientific books that I have read.
This book is well written, reads like a mystery novel and is a great source of interesting information.
Scientific information is explained in "simple reader" language.The focus in this book is on astronomy : how big is our universe, how old it is, how it "works", etc.
For this reason, we are chemically connected to all molecules on Earth.
And we are atomically connected to all atoms in the universe.
The universe as we know it, began.
And so stars formed.
And from stars everything else sprang into existence: more stars, galaxies, the glorious milky way, our spectacular sun, our caring earth, our gorgeous moon shortly thereafter, and finally, precious, precious life.
There are more galaxies in the universe than all of the humans that have ever lived.
There are more stars than all of the grains of sand covering earth's golden beaches.
A supernova happening 12 light years away from us would completely eradicate our existence.
We live on a fragile mote of dust, drifting in an incomprehensibly vast void, surrounded by infinite worlds.
It has always made me very curious how science touches many other seemingly different subjects of history, philosophy, and religion. This book is really very impressive. A story of 15 billion years of the cosmos compressed in this relatively smaller book! Easy to read and understand, Carl Sagan's Cosmos draws the reader into a world so vivid and realistic that it's hard not to be mesmerized throughout while reading this book.
The surface of the Earth is the shore of the cosmic ocean. On this shore, we've learned most of what we know. Recently, we've waded a little way out, maybe ankle-deep, and the water seems inviting. Some part of our being knows this is where we came from.We long to returnand we can .because the cosmos is also within us. We're made of starstuff  i don't think i'll ever give 5 stars more wholeheartedly as i am doing now ..5 shimmering , eye-blindingly shinning stars , the brightest suns GR has in
The question about extraterrestial life remains a puzzle , but exploring the problem is a fascinating journey in itself .I am not an expert on natural science , a mere starter , but it was easy for me to read , so i think carl sagan's books are gems of some sort , they are the bridge between scientists and common people , they are written for us , we who love the stars and crave to understand them yet we are no scientists or experts our selves .
I even took notes from this ideas so maybe I can use them in my future writings.
Carl Sagan became my favorite person in science))) And this book will be forever my favorite and I am sure I will read it again and again and also recommend it as a teacher)) And these are my favorite quotes:“The nitrogen in our DNA, the calcium in our teeth, the iron in our blood, the carbon in our apple pies were made in the interiors of collapsing stars.
"El nitrógeno de nuestro ADN, el calcio de nuestros dientes, el hierro de nuestra sangre, el carbono de nuestras tartas de manzana se hicieron en los interiores de estrellas en proceso de colapso.
Estamos hechos, pues, de sustancia estelar."El entusiasmo de Sagan rompe las barreras del tiempo.
Su pasión contagia como el peor de los virus.
"Nos embarcamos en nuestro viaje cósmico con una pregunta formulada por primera vez en la infancia de nuestra especie y repetida en cada generación con una admiración inalterada: ¿Qué son las estrellas?
Estuvimos demasiado tiempo en la orilla del océano cósmico.
Ahora estamos a punto de zarpar hacia las estrellas."Continuemos nuestra búsqueda, encontremos nuestro lugar en el Cosmos.
"Okumaya neden bu kadar gec kalmisim ki?" diye kendi kendime sordum bitirdigimde. Inceleme yazmak icin biraz bekledim. Cunku ne yazmaliyim ya da kafamdakileri nasil anlatmaliyim bir fikrim yoktu ilk defa. Beni en cok etkileyen seylerden biri Iskenderiye Kutuphanesi yakilinca neleri yitirdigimize dair anlatinin oldugu bolumdu sanirim. Carl Sagan adi zaten kitaba, icerige, kaliteye dair soyleyecek cok sey birakmiyor. Keyifle okudum. Belgeselden de asina oldugumuz okumadan once konu hakkinda on arastirma yapmamizi gerektirmeden, sıkmadan ogretme mantigi sayfalar arasinda da ustaca kullanilmis. "Bir seyin nedenini ogrenmeyi kral olmaya yeg tutarim." diyen Demokritos'a ve ustada saygiyla ölmeden once mutlaka okuyun deyip susacagim...
This is one of those kind of books that comes along every few years that is so fantastic that you purposely drag out reading it in order to savor its awesomeness.
- Sagan's insight and wide-reaching scope are timeless.The last few chapters are so rich in thought-provoking information they are worth re-reading.
Sagan would have never wanted his work to become the foundation of a religion, but I can see why so many people refer to this as their "bible" and use it to help make sense out of a mad world and one's short time to inhabit it.
সে অনেককাল আগের কথা; ৩-৪ হাজার বছরের কম হবেনা। পরাচীন গরীকরা তখন Chaos কে আদি পিতা মানতো। আজকের আধুনিক ইংরেজী অভিধানে ঢুকে পড়া Chaos শবদটি বরতমানে বযবহৃত হয় ‘বিশৃঙখলা’ অরথে। তবে, শবদটির বযুৎপততিগত অরথের কিনতু খুব একটা হেরফের হয়নি এই গত কয়েক হাজার বছরেও। পরাচীন সেই গরীক বিশবাসমতে Chaos দেবতাটি ছিলেন সমপূরণ আকার-অবয়ব বিহীন এবং আদিতে যেহেতু Chaos ছাড়া আর কোন কিছুরই অসতিতব ছিলোনা, তাই সৃষটিজগতের পুরোটাই ছিলো অবিনযসত, ভীষণ এলোমেলো, আধুনিক সময়ে যাকে আমরা বলি ‘Chaotic’! এরপর Chaos সৃষটি করলেন দেবী Nigh

