https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1106219.The_Seven_Lady_Godivas
Dr. Seuss stories are often very silly which is highly amusing if you are under 7 or the adult enjoying the child's laughter. Part of the amusement is derived from how ridiculous some of the rhymes are when the books are read aloud. This book, a retelling of the Lady Godiva story (with Peeping Tom worked in) is meant for adults but the silliness is childish and not having the benefit of either outlandish rhymes or being written to be read aloud, it rather falls flat. I'm glad Dr. Seuss stuck to children's books, they really were his genre.
But most parents/readers think of him for this one thing, quirky kid poems.Dr. Seuss, well, you know what he is famous for, too.
This is a long and pretty convoluted story of not one but seven lady Godivas (who almost never ride!) and seven Tom Peepings (who never really peep in that heavy-breathing way, I'll disappoint you).
And by the way the origin of a "peeping Tom" developed over time as a cautionary moral tale, based on a made-up story about a guy named Tom who had the temerity to look at the passing naked woman and was supposedly struck blind as punishment.
This one doesn't rhyme and it's not for the kiddies.You can almost feel the waves of sexual frustration as seven inexplicably naked gals vow not to wed their sweeties until they learn some horse sense. (Or maybe I'm just projecting...) I'm somewhat surprised no one chose to emulate Catherine the Great. She seemed to know something about equine attributes. Neigh!
As a tribute to their father's fate, the Godiva sisters agree to never marry—despite the fact that each is courting one of seven brothers named Peeping—until they can warn their countrymen of the dangers of horses.
Will the ladies find these "horse truths", and true love?Like I said, this book was hilarious.
The seven sisters stick to their oath - either they find a Horse Truth, or they don't get married.I love how Dr. Seuss took an old legend, with Lady Godiva and Peeping Tom. Don't know what I'm talking about?
Here, in 1939, Seuss is just starting to get a feel for the rhythms of language that he masters over the next 20 years.Maybe the most humorous part of the whole book for me is seeing my childhood hero draw nekkid ladies (especially the very large Teenie Godiva), although the good doctor (certainly not a gynecologist) has a real reticence in addressing anatomical accuracy.
Some precious vandal went and helpfully added nipples to Hedwig Godiva on an early page of my copy of the book.
Here is the true story about the Godiva family, and the seven sisters who are each far too intelligent to waste time worrying about frivolous things like doing their hair, makeup, or you know, clothes.
When their father is killed by a horse, they take it upon themselves to discover seven Horse Truths, one from each sister, before any of them will ever know true love.
What follows is a clever, funny and sometimes touching story that is a little different from your average Dr. Seuss book.I had first heard about the Seven Lady Godivas at the end of last year, after a visit to the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago for an exhibit on the work of Dr. Seuss.
It takes its name from the legendary nudist Lady Godiva, and as such features drawings of naked women.
If you're looking for pornography done up in a style typically intended for children, you'll be much more satisfied with Edward Gorey's The Curious Sofa: A Pornographic Work by Ogdred Weary.Now that we've got that out of the way, the book itself is delightful.
From the foreward note by Seuss about how he intends to set the record straight about the historically misunderstood sisters, to the imaginative ways the Godiva sisters come to discover various horse related idioms, it's, quite surprisingly, one of the best Seuss books I've read.
I was aware at the time that the original 1939 printing was rare and valuable (which is pointed out in the dust jacket text of the reprint).
The idea of having a Dr. Seuss book with nudity in it was irresistible, although the nudes are very tamely rendered (no nips or vagina, lots of butts and mannequin-style breasts).
The text is far more ample than is usual with Seuss and there is no staccato rhyming (indeed, no rhyming at all), although at this stage his books did tend to have more copy than they would later.
So when this came along from my friends in the Reno BookCrossing group, I had to grab it.
I decided this would be one of the first reads.In a world, where the common sense that we all know and love, is totally missing, it's nice to get back to just plain old horse sense.
You know those old sayings and wondered where they came from?
Dr. Seuss tries to explain in this book.
Dr. Seuss explains it quite well as he goes along.
Enjoy this book for the prize it is.As I said before, this is a BookCrossing edition.
¿Del doctor Seuss?Bueno, como en todo, hay que empezar por definir.
¿Cuál es la diferencia entre los libros de adultos y los infantiles?
Probablemente ninguna, algún tema escabroso por ahí, pero un libro infantil que es bueno, es bueno para los adultos tanto como para los niños.Este, por ejemplo, es un gran libro, inteligente y divertido aunque, ciertamente, trae dibujadas mujeres desnudas.
Eso limita la clasificación del libro, por supuesto, no deberíamos enseñarles a los niños damitas sin paños menores...En realidad a mi me daría igual, los dibujos son del doctor Seuss, a fin de cuentas.No importa, dejemos de lado el detalle de la clasificación.
So, I saw something about this book on the internet, and at first, I wondered if it was for real.
A Dr. Seuss book about the naked lady Godivas?
So, I borrowed it from the library, and it was for real.
It was written in 1939, surprisingly, and contained some innuendo, but not as much as you might expect.
The story was jokey, the illustrations were all Dr. Suess.
I would not read it with my young children - too weird.
But, I am glad I found out about it, glad I checked it out - I like knowing what all the fuss is about, and that's about all.
*WARNING: This is not a children's book. It is cleverly disguised as a children's illustrated book but the last time I checked having naked women and peeping tom's aren't suitable for children. I wanted to love this book so bad because it was Dr. Seuss but I believe this book is absolutely terrible. I do not know what was going on in his rightful head but I felt like slitting my wrist then to read this 80 paged book. Between the illustrations and the way he writes in this book made it feel like
It is cleverly disguised as a children's illustrated book but the last time I checked having naked women and peeping tom's aren't suitable for children.
Between the illustrations and the way he writes in this book made it feel like a children's story but there were certain comments and undertones that suggested that this is mostly for adults.I am perfectly fine with nudity and never had an issue of watching it especially since I love HBO, going to the beach and seeing naked or topless, or having to change in front of people.
I just reread it, and it is probably my all time favorite book of Dr. Seuss's!
Yes, that's right: Dr. Seuss wrote a book about seven naked ladies, each tasked with finding out a "horse truth" before she can marry her true love.
The true loves are seven brothers, Peeping Tom, Dick, and Harry, etc.
It plays off the legend/history of Lady Godiva (and yes, that IS where the term "Peeping Tom" came from) and also old adages like, "Don't put the cart before the horse." This is a fantastic, fun book, and while yes, the ladies are naked, I don't think it's all THAT scandalous.
It was cute, but definitely not my favorite dr.
Seuss book.
The story was ok.
& The art was funny & nice, even if I didn't really get why they didn't wear clothes even in the snow.
It's main problem was It didn't rhyme.
:( that's the best part of any Seuss book.
The rhymes, because it makes them so much fun to read out loud.
Sues book and NOT have rhymes.
It's just a little weird.
Still a cute little read.
Solid three stars & I'd definitely recommend it to any dr.
Seuss fan who hasn't read it before.
Definitely the shortest book so far this year. An amusing tale of the seven Godiva sisters who are challenged to make themselves worthy of marriage to the Peeping brothers by discovering "horse truths". Not entirely sure why they had to always be in the buff, but they were unclothed throughout. Published in 1939, it predates the joke in The Wizard of Oz about a "horse of a different color" just barely. The illustrations were the best part.
Funny and wise. An fine example of Theodore Geisel's early work. Note: unlike this authors later works, this book is intended for adults.
The most perverse Children's book....ever...FIVE STARS!!!!!!!
Read at 3AM during exam week senior year. Totally worth it.
I actually found it boring, the illustrations aren't also for children in my opinion, and I would never this book to my children, they'll be sleep before I finish the fifth page.
Nope, it's a no for me.
Lovely little book! Loved the body positivity in it. Short, witty and a 'childish' book for adults by Dr. Seuss. Wonderful!
This was.... wierd....
The book itself is not what makes this book interesting.
What makes this book interesting is the fact that Dr. Seuss made a picture book for adults starring seven nude women taking care of horses until they come up with puns (Such as "Horseshoes are Lucky" or "You can lead a horse to water...").
Seuss famously complained his original print run for Seven Lady Godivas did poorly because adults are impossible to please, that they lack imagination, that they are "obsolete children." Honestly though?
Imagine watching an HBO drama produced by Mr. Rogers and you'll have an idea of what reading this book is like.
Seven Lady Godivas: The True Facts Concerning History's Barest Family (Hardcover)"A beautiful story of love, honor and scientific achievement" is how Dr. Seuss, with tongue in cheek, describes this book.
Touted as Dr. Seuss's first book for adults, The Seven Lady Godivas was originally published in 1939 and reissued in 1987.
Instead of scientific truths we are treated by the author to fanciful origins for seven proverbs about horses as each sister discovers her "horse truth" and goes on to marry her boyfriend.If you enjoy Dr. Seuss, you will find these drawings and this story delightful.
Although described as an adult book, children will enjoy the story as well.
I see this thrown around as Dr. Seuss' first "adult" book, and I fear that is a bit misleading.
The book is inspired by the Medieval myth about Lady Godiva, who was said to ride around town completely naked in order to get her husband to lift the heavy taxes on his people.
Everyone in town was supposed to keep inside and not look at Lady Godiva's nudity, but one man named Tom chose to peep through his window to sneak a peek.
And the Peeping Tom was actually a suitor for one of the Lady Godivas, along with his 6 brothers.
Clever and rather obscure work for adults from Dr. Seuss originally published in 1939 and pretty much ignored for years. Apparently the world was not ready for an adult picture book from Dr. Seuss filled with drawings of naked women with no nipples... go figure! The prose is actually pure Seuss, minus the rhymes, the illustrations are very nice if you like his style, and the story is amusing. Seems there were actually  seven  Godiva sisters, ladies one and all. And that Peeping Tom? Also one of
The prose is actually pure Seuss, minus the rhymes, the illustrations are very nice if you like his style, and the story is amusing.
Following the unfortunate death of the sisters' father, Lord Godiva, at the hands of a crotchety horse, the seven make a vow that each one will eschew marriage until she has discovered a "horse fact" that will be compiled into a cautionary book for the benefit of humankind.
From there the fun is figuring out from the context of each sister's story what her horse fact will turn out to be.
The ladies push their horses to the limit until these truths become apparent such as "Don't look a gift horse in the mouth" and "Don't put the cart before the horse." Horses and Ladies alike were harmed in the search for this knowledge.This story was extremely tongue in cheek.
Although Seuss was clever in some spots, the nakedness of these ladies (while everyone else is clothed) is silly and the story is simply strange.
I think if the ladies had their clothes on the story would have been more interesting, but then they couldn't be Lady Godiva's I suppose.
I loved everything about this book. Not only did it have the wonderful illustrations by Dr. Seuss, but the entire thing is a setup for one big long dad joke. Wonderful!
Dr. Seuss was a genius. In this book for adults, he proved it again. There were 7 Lady Godivas, all daughters of Lord Godiva, in Coventry, England. Lord Godiva had gone off on his horse to the battle of Hastings and was killed when his horse reared on him. Therefore, the daughters decided it was their responsibility to discover 7 horse “truths” before they could get married. Each girl would discover one truth, then she could get married. In true Dr. Seuss fashion, each girl went off in search o
Dr. Seuss was a genius.
There were 7 Lady Godivas, all daughters of Lord Godiva, in Coventry, England.
Lord Godiva had gone off on his horse to the battle of Hastings and was killed when his horse reared on him.
Therefore, the daughters decided it was their responsibility to discover 7 horse “truths” before they could get married.
Each girl would discover one truth, then she could get married.
In true Dr. Seuss fashion, each girl went off in search of her truth.
After the truths had been found, each Lady Godiva married one of the seven Peeping brothers, including Peeping Tom.
I found this book through Brain Pickings and it is a delight.
Look for the good doctor himself in the family tree on the endpapers.Pretty much the best thing to be said about this book comes from the author.I attempted to draw the sexiest babes I could, but they came out looking absurd.Great author .
or greatest author?It's quick little read and, frankly, hardly scandalous anymore.
It is a delightful tale, to boot and I think the author knew exactly how ridiculous he was being when he wrote it.If your library has a copy, go and read it.
