https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129344.Speedboat
Some moments stand out in the multitude and bring us pleasure, sorrow, mirth, intrigue or some other keenly felt emotion while the rest merge with the void and perish.Renata Adler's writing is thoroughly deserving of all the accolades because of her earnestness at remaining faithful to dull realities, everyday mundane things that we eagerly discard in favor of the exaggerated glamour of tragedy or romance.
Just as the traditional narrative of the novel is subverted without any pretensions in 'Speedboat' which, true to life, refuses to stitch together ephemeral moments into a much bigger collage of the human consciousness, the short story format is also ingeniously shunned.
Every love story, every commercial trade, every secret, every matter in which trust is involved, is a gentle transaction of hostages.
in sync with your inner music.Overheard, in passing, a single fragment of conversation which formed both an absurd statement and a philosophical treaty?These transitional moments during travel, when we’re often in meditative states of our abstracted selves, reveal the world to us in ornate patterns of both the banal and the enlightening.Renata Adler’s debut novel —recently republished— captures this sense of heightened awareness through a combination of reportage, biography and anecdote and a hypnotic prose style.
Vignettes and anecdotes on failed dates, end-of-evening goodbyes and good nights; of transactions and exchanges with taxi drivers and transient descriptions of street life or overheard dinner conversations.
It's because I'm really fucking pissed at Renata Adler.Speedboat and Pitch Dark are two of the best works of fiction I've read in the past five years.
I'm certain that Adler's collected essays are amazing.
But right now I want to stew in my selfish indignation that she hasn't written another book of fiction in thirty years!
Adler's fiction works like life stories work.
Speedboat does this.I daydream being a gold-laden sultan, contacting Adler and asking her to name her price to produce more fiction.
“That was a dream, of course, but many of the most important things, I find, are the ones learned in your sleep.”  - Renata Adler, SpeedboatAs soon as I read the first page I knew I was going to love Renata Adler.
This is a hard book to review but one I hope more people will read.
I have always had a soft spot for books like this one, made up of interesting vignettes.
Adler's anecdotes and her discourse on language all made the book fascinating.
I'm really looking forward to reading more of her books.
Newton’s Third Law of thermodynamics says that things cannot be held up indefinitely.
Newton’s Second Law says that long and thin is always better than short and stubby.
Whoever wished for a baby with long thin arms and legs?
Or possibly The Elf Pistols (First album – Never Mind the Hobbits!)So many many many many people wish to write, you know, “write”, but have no idea what to write, so, bereft, they take their cue from LIFE ITSELF as it ephemeralizes past their noses.
Any fan of Speedboat could write as good a book as Speedboat.
I believe that’s Newton’s 14th Law of Thermodynamics.
When I begged Renata Adler a third of the way through to please not give me any plot, no throw-ins for the publisher of mystery, suspense, unresolved conflicts, she happily agreed.
At least keeping my mouth shut to myself doesn't prevent the rising of images, then eventually themes and meanings.What first arose was the genius of the creation of the narrator.
The experience of reading speedboat, how it is imposed on the reader to move through the sentences and paragraphs, provides what Adler and her book says is missing-a jab at reality and its undercurrents.
This all becomes horribly acute if we are with someone we are trying to impress; sitting opposite some lovely person and dragging out the old stories again.
And those stupid stories I've told so many times.
I'M SO BLOODY BORING.Reading 'Speedboat' is like sitting opposite someone who wants to tell you all the stories they can think of about themselves; all of their views on language, on countries they've visited, on politics and many other subjects.
It should be the most boring book of all time, but it isn't.
Next time I might even try out a few of my own stories.
Like the one about the time I was in Belfast and...
I felt as I read that I was getting a purer strain of this stuff, something closer to the source, maybe even the original approach, tone, and form itself.
A period piece in many ways, nicely dated, historical, fifties, sixties, seventies, Tiny Tim talk at one point, a good deal of perfectly phrased '70s feminism (well-educated women from the great women's colleges asked if they type), fragmented form to match the times of course.
Intentionally about fragmented times and feminism, obviously, but more subtly about class privilege, pins to the page what feels like hundreds of iridescent, delicate, upper-class, northeastern sociological specimens.
All these years later, I still wonder, one what?”At six one morning, Will went out in jeans and a frayed sweater to buy a quart of milk.
Its narrator is a young woman making her way in New York City in the 1960's and 1970's, as was I and as was Renata Adler.
Jen Fain is a journalist (as was Adler), a graduate of good schools who travels to both ordinary and exotic places and meets both ordinary and eccentric people.
“Speedboat” was considered groundbreaking when it was published in 1976.
Adler wrote only one other novel, “Pitch Dark,” about another young woman journalist.
http://msarki.tumblr.com/post/5903479..."In any group of two or more, it seems, somebody is on trial."__Renata Adler from the novel SpeedboatNobody ever said the poet/essayist/novelist/short story writer Jim Harrison was anything but a very smart man, charming when not drunk, a very talented cook if the reports are true, an avid walker, and very good at what he does which is basically write, that is, when he isn't involved in these other things outdoorsy men do.
Speedboat was basically a very good book, interesting, and would have been worth my reading it back in the seventies when it first appeared.
I have met very few writers who write at all.NYRB Classics, the imprint that's mostly about reviving out-of-print books they think deserve a second look, got a big hit with Stoner a few years back; now Speedboat is getting a little traction, and I'm happy to say that it's better.
"I wanted to write the kind of book I liked to read," says Adler, "which is narrative, thriller, with plots...I found I didn't seem to be doing that.
Only connect.And you're like holy shit, where did Ezra Pound and EM Forster come from?I'm quoting a lot from this book because that's the primary thing it is: quotable.
Adler published a novel of 5 previously published short stories that mostly consist of temporally and spatially disjointed, aphoristic paragraphs.
She tries to get along with all her advantages, and still finds living in New York fast, tough, and fragmentary.If, like me, you've ever wondered what growing up rich and waspy in Connecticut or Upstate New York, then trying to "make it" in the big city with all your connections and wealth was like, Speedboat delivers on this experience.
Fain's thoughts, and the recorded snippets of conversations she either has or endures, mimics the frenetic pace at which we now live.
Interesting... a period piece. For a book, though, whose main raison d'être is to be essentially modern, what happens when that particular moment of modernity passes...? On the other hand, NYC 1971 is something I can dig... I was there. Still... Renata Adler in 1970 was relentlessly gorgeous. I still dig her hair...If I were 25 and female, I'd probably take her as a role model. But that said, being neither, I feel no particular compulsion to finish this, and will shelve it.
And I appreciate Adler's humor: satirizing through cynical, scathing restatement of the familiar, rather than engineering outlandish scenarios to advance a point.
(There are a few outlandish scenarios nonetheless, but they tend to be off on their own, filling some other role in the story.)On the other hand, there's very little continuity.
I'm fine with foregoing narrative continuity at this point, but this also has little character continuity besides the narrator, or continuity of subject matter (though certain motifs recur), or even continuity of mood.
Renata Adler's Speedboat faced great contention upon its release.
It was not for the content, albeit morally-spotty in parts, but rather, that the work was classified as a 'novel.' Speedboat is a heterogeneous mixture of story-fragments.
Collected, they feature no sort of temporal progression, nor is there any plot to Speedboat as a whole.
What Speedboat lacks in plot-continuity it makes up for in continuity of style, mood, and a vague-but-substantial sense of connectedness throughout each of Adler's miniscule tales.
In this sense, Adler transcends the traditional story format, presenting to the reader an avant-novel.
And I suspect this author was trying to convey how such a lifestyle could create such a state of mind, one that attempts to filter every event great and small, boring or bizarre through clever and concise language for the purposes of a nifty journalism piece.Since this type of writing has become more commonplace since this book was published, I found it much more dull than I possibly would have if I discovered it decades ago.
Similar writing flourishes on the internet, the first example that springs to mind is the international writing on sites like Vice: Writing with a lot of style, topics chosen because of their violent or unusual nature, but presented with the absolute minimum of concern or passion for the subject - often coming across as (to me at least) voyeuristic and exploitative.
In theory, and reading past reviews, this is a book I would go for - but alas, it didn't do anything for me.
Most of the stories, if not all, were published in the New Yorker, in the early and mid - 1970s.
It took me about four weeks to read the book.
I would read one story or chapter, and forget about it, and then pick up the book again.
And this is only me, but I have a hard time dealing with literature that is published in the New Yorker.
Really it's 3.5, but I like rounding up, even though at times it makes me unreliably enthusiastic.—–———This is one of those times (where the rating is unreliable), but I think a 3 is too low, or at least that it would put much of what follows in the wrong light.—————And really, that rating is based on Adler's prose, and not the book itself.
And (further) really, what I mean is that Adler is one hell of a writer, I just found that I didn't like what she was writing.
Maximum Droll.
a snarkfest. some funny punchlines--but many more stale ones. a structure to admire if it only had a bit more heart and a little less posturing. that is, just couldn't get into it... best things about it were historical -- its capturing of 60s and 70s racism, its city university riffs, the tone and portrait of hip and swinging but fried and bankrupt NYC intelligentsia.
This is like reading someone else's memories, jotted down, connected in some way you don't understand, from a specific span of time.There were little bits I really liked. The thing about experimental fiction that I'm not always sure about is if it's actually telling a story. Thus my discomfort and confusion. I wish more of my GoodReads friends had read this so we could chat.
Review published in 3:AM Magazine: http://www.3ammagazine.com/3am/centur...
Purtroppo non tutti i frammenti narrativi hanno la stessa potenza, e non sono pochi i brani che suonano più come riempitivi.Il libro rimane sospeso tra fiction e memoir: l’io narrante è un alias, ma il lettore lo identifica subito come la vera Renata Adler.
Non riuscivo a capacitarmi di metterci più di un mese a leggere un libro di 180 pagine, ma d’altra parte la lettura di Mai c’eravamo annoiati richiede un tipo di attenzione diversa rispetto a una forma più convenzionale di romanzo, fiction o non-fiction che sia.
Un ragazzo e una ragazza – lui era italiano, credo; lei tedesca – si erano appena conosciuti, e avevano scelto il francese come lingua comune.
Lei ha risposto che ci aveva pensato, ma temeva che gli uomini di quel settore volessero tutti la stessa cosa.
Quando sono arrivata da lui, Aldo è venuto ad aprire con un sorriso che sembrava sorpreso, un po’ imbarazzato.
Gli ho chiesto se ci fosse già una ragazza in casa.
«Se fossi in lei non le parlerei» ha detto il guardiano.
«Se fossi in lei non la toccherei» ha detto il guardiano.
Other vignettes have a snapshot-like quality, being that they are keenly observed scenes expressed in smart snappy prose, but ultimately do not seem profound enough, funny enough, or beautifully written enough to warrant inclusion in a book.Adler's writing is polished and witty; it does not, however, have the lyrical beauty of, say, Elizabeth Hardwick's.
(Slate book reviewer Katie Roiphe likened Adler's writing to Hardwick's in her 3/13/13 review of Speedboat, which is what prompted me to pick up this book in the first place.) Hardwick's writing is so lovely that she could make the dullest scene on earth worth reading.
Adler's writing is by no means bad, but her most impressive talent is not her lyricism but, rather, her superhuman powers of observation.
Fascinatingly structured novel in vignettes - all of them sharp, and observational, and very much of a time and place. In its elliptical style and humor, it surpasses Hardwick's SLEEPLESS NIGHTS, which it resembles. We hunt through the paragraphs, many of which are sort of like the platonic ideal of a "Talk of the Town" article, for the plot, which slowly unwinds itself. A total pleasure.
Some quirkily brilliant paragraphs and set pieces here and there, amidst other bits that must have been written under the influence of some pretty strong substances. There's no novel here, though; not in any sense that has meaning or value to me. Ultimately, a third of the way in, I'd had enough.
Sorry, Nick. I read about 60 pages and I can't get into it. Just seems like random thoughts with no cohesion- no story
No one, no one has the observational power and weird way with words that Adler does. It's like reading a book by aliens way cooler than we are.
“Lancha Rápida“, su primera novela editada en el año 1976 (y ahora publicada en nuestro país de la mano de Sexto Piso), la situó rápidamente entre las plumas más destacadas de su generación, y el texto se ha mantenido más que vigente durante cuarenta años por motivos más que evidentes… El primero de ellos, porque es una reflexión pura y dura al respecto del propio lenguaje.
‘Estómago’, que nunca era una gran palabra fuera de la temporada de caza, se había convertido en un sustantivo repetido en la prosa literaria.
