https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27252.Pope_Joan
I found the idea of a woman disguised as a man seated on the papal throne to be an interesting legend and the author did a decent job with it.
The problem I had is the incredible coincidences throughout the book where Joan is just saved in the nick of time in true soap opera fashion (think Days of Our Lives -- no better yet the Perils of Pauline) from disaster upon disaster to chance upon chance of being discovered as a woman, to the near escape from the Viking raid and more ad infinitum.
It never stopped until the very end, there were so many times where you just want to roll your eyes and say give me a break!
The Catholic Church today treats Pope Joan as legend created by the Protestants, but with over 500 documents to prove she did exist, it is but another bureaucratic cover-up.A woman from Frankish lands with Saxon and English heritage in the 9th century going out there and doing it for herself.
Cross uses words that are not commonly used now, e.g. basileus for king, throughout the book to put you in the story--not too much to put you off, but enough to make you stop and think.
I do not know whether Pope Joan existed or not, but I find the author's points valid.
However whether Pope Joan existed or not is irrelevant to how I judge this book.
One aspect of the book that I think the author handles well is the description of the era - the religious beliefs, historical events, soothsayers, celebration of feast and market gatherings.
Through page 148: Maybe my mood is off, but I find Pope Joan disappointing.
You can stack the characters in two groups - the good guys or the bad guys.Here is an excerpt about the white wolf cub, Luke.

I would hope that he would actually pick up and read this book, because if you look past all the religious controversy of a woman being Pope, there is an underlying story of the beginning of feminism and a woman standing up for herself and pursuing her own dreams and desires despite everything that goes against her.
I would hope that a man would read this and realize that every woman has this potential and we are truly equal to men.Pope Joan, or at least the character of her in this book, is truly an inspiration to women everywhere.
پاپی که در حوالی سال ۸۵۰ میلادی می زیسته یک پاپ مونث .در زمانی که هنوز زنان به این باور نرسیده بودند که میتوانند حقوقی مساوی مردان طلب کنند و به جای احقاق حقوق خود لباس مردانه پوشیده و به فعالیت اجتماعی میپرداختند .
تعداد این زنان هر چند کم اما نشان دهنده ی تلاش آنها برای حضور در جامعه بوده است .
پس از چندین هزار سال از تمدن بشر همچنان ما زنان برای حقوق خود در حال جنگ و درگیری هستیم حقی که به واسطه ی زور مردانه از ما گرفته شده و شاید احقاق آنها هزاران سال دیگر به طول خواهد انجامید .
The story of Pope Joan, a woman who lived disguised as a man and rose to become pope of the Church in the ninth century, is one of the most fascinating in Western history, and one of the least known.
She certainly wouldn’t have been the only woman in history to do so.So why deny she existed at all?
What of the “shunned street” in Rome on which Joan reportedly “John Anglicus gave birth to a child…” Even with these facts, given the confusion of the ninth century, it is impossible to know for sure if she existed.
Author Donna Woolfolk Cross writes an interesting tale about what could have been a young girl's life in that time.Daughter of a canon who values women little and definitely finds them unworthy of an education her Joan has to struggle from early on to pursue her studies.
Much brighter and intelligent than her brother, Joan stands out as a student and eventually develops an attachment to Gerolt, the nobleman in whose house she leaves in.
But Gerolt leaves and the village is attacked by Norsemen.To survive Joan disguises herself as her dead brother and becomes John.
Her vivid descriptions of the life people led back then, and the terrible attitudes and superstitions of society, made me very glad I didn't live in those times.
To be a poor woman was the worst of the worst, with men firmly convinced that women's brains weren't able to be educated--that even to try was a sin and an abomination--and that women were no more than a useful chattel.Joan, in desperation to escape this limited life, seizes her opportunity to impersonate her dead brother, and takes his place as a monk at a monastery, where her clever mind delights in learning.
Though their attitudes were enough to make a modern woman grind her teeth, it was interesting to get a feel for how people saw the world in those times.
What I really hated, though, was how the author took a great possibility of a story and turned it into flaming feminist rhetoric.
Why can't smart girls sew and cook as well as dumb ones?
And why isn't it OK to be dumb, for that matter, if you're a girl?
The book showed with John (Joan's brother) that you can still be valiant and dumb.
I found the love story completely crazy as well.
I felt it was one of those books which seeks to take history and Oprah-ize it, put modern thoughts and feelings in characters from a real period in history.
Donna Woolfolk Cross takes a thousand year old legend and writes a compelling back story that left me with many questions.
Steeped in history, Cross explains how this happened with a fascinating tale of ambition and adventure.
A great read, she describes many common practices that the leaders of the church follow today, perhaps because of the impostor.
If you like church history, read this.
If you life woman's history, read this, If you like legends, read this.
In other words, if you enjoy a well written tale of something that might have happened to influence the world as we know it today- this this is the book for you.
But my in many ways glowing appreciation of the author's research on the topic of Pope Joan (and how Donna Woolford Cross has organised and penned her supplemental notes) quite and utterly notwithstanding, what has definitely and yes ALWAYS defeated me and majorly annoyed me every time I have tried to unsuccessfully peruse Pope Joan is simply and utterly that the author's writing style and mode of expression are simply and utterly NOT AT ALL for me (and that at least in my opinion, Pope Joan reads like pure and unadulterated cinematic trash, with history, cultural descriptions, with all that would make a historical fiction novel of interest to and for me being drowned out by one-dimensional stock-like characters, and a textual wallowing in sex, violence and mystery).
Quis, quid, quomondo, ubi, quando, cur? Quis — siapa?Namanya Joan. Dilahirkan tahun 814 Masehi di Ingelheim (sekarang di wilayah Jerman). Putri satu-satunya seorang kanon (semacam pendeta atau imam) dari Inggris dan istrinya yang orang Saxon. Punya dua kakak laki-laki, Matthew dan John. Dari kecil sudah menampakkan kecerdasan dan keingintahuan yang luar biasa. Joan menderita siksaan fisik dari ayahnya gara-gara hal itu, tapi toh ia tidak mau berhenti belajar.Quid — apa?Perjuangan Joan, yang den
Joan menderita siksaan fisik dari ayahnya gara-gara hal itu, tapi toh ia tidak mau berhenti belajar.Quid — apa?Perjuangan Joan, yang dengan karunia kecerdasan yang dimilikinya, menolak kenyataan yang terjadi pada masa itu bahwa perempuan tidak diperbolehkan untuk membaca dan menulis, apalagi belajar dan menguasai berbagai ilmu sebagaimana kaum laki-laki.
Ditengah-tengah busuknya politik Kepausan Katolik Roma, ancaman Kaisar Lothar dari kerajaan Frank, ancaman wabah yang merajalela, dan juga serangan bangsa Viking, Joan menapaki langkah demi langkah menuju tahta tertinggi dalam Katolik Roma – Paus.Quomondo – bagaimana?Di satu titik Joan membuat suatu keputusan besar yang mengubah seluruh hidupnya – ia menyamar sebagai seorang laki-laki, sehingga ia bisa mempelajari banyak hal – sesuatu yang mustahil dilakukan seorang perempuan pada abad kesembilan.
Joan herself presented a rather frustrating character, for one thing it did not seem as if she ever really grew or developed as the story continued but from the start to the end she remained the same never matured or seem to learn from any of her experiences and so she always acted the same she did as a child in spite of her alleged wisdom and intelligence.
The other thing which bothered me was that while it seemed that the author was trying to portray Joan as being divinely chosen for her role as Pope in which throughout the book some miraculously event would always occur just in time to assist and save Joan from impending dissector.
In this book, a very intelligent and likable girl attempts to find her way out of this life only to be kicked back by conservative religious leaders every step of the way.
I was also hoping that she would somehow end up slipping out of the role of pope and find a life with her long time boyfriend and admirer.
So, we are left with a lugubrious ending to an interesting life and a book that didn't really satisfy me other than to be sick about the terrible life so many people lived in the past although realizing that there is a chance that one female made it to the top of the Catholic church.
Knowledge is power, or as her tutor tells her, "some ideas are dangerous." Having mastered Greek, Latin, classical scholarly debate, scriptural knowledge and knowledge of medicine and healing, Joan breaks the mold of women being "incapable of reasoning." (82) The book is an argument for the existence of a female pope as we follow Joan's journey to the highest office of Christendom after the death of Leo III.
In a time where education is taken for granted and few students desire to work to the limits of their abilities, this book challenges a reader to reevaluate the gift of learning.
Fascinating book about ideas and a little known historical era.
Por isso começo por agradecer ao meu bom amigo Marco Caetano, as inúmeras obras que me tem recomendado, pois nas suas indicações tenho-me deleitado com várias horas de prazer literário.
Uma obra assombrosa, divinal!
Um livro que me fascinou ao primeiro capitulo e que me fez devorar autenticamente as suas folhas, ao ponto de quando tinha que o fechar ficava a pensar no que aconteceria às várias personagens.
Joana de Ingelheim, personifica na perfeição a luta contra a ostracização a que as mulher foram sujeitas ao longo de vários séculos pela igreja católica.
Uma obra de leitura obrigatória!
If I ever teach a creative writing course, I will probably use this book as an example of black-and-white characters.I am impressed by the historical accuracy, although the first few chapters could use a good edit for "lookit my research look look I did my research," and I was initially cranky about the romance, but okay if the historical legend includes a stillbirth, I guess Joan had to get knocked up somewhere. (The ninth century: not really my area.)The characterization is as flat as a good chocolate lace cookie. I finished this, and I'm not sure why.
If you've read the Clan of the Cave Bear series, you've met this heroine before - she's perfect, she invents everything, she can heal everyone of everything, she's a proto-New Age Woman who has fallen in love with the perfect man.While there were parts of this story that were greatly enjoyable, the reliance on stock tricks to advance the plot and an opinion that you are either good or bad hampered the book.
I really hope it's not just a legend :)
I guess now is the time when I needed to read the book.Cross has done a superb job bringing the tale of Pope Joan to life in this riveting, epic page-turner.
I see Joan as an opportunist who believes that if she has this uncontrollable will to learn and to contribute positively to society, then it is derived from God, and nothing else, not even the Holy Book, can deny her goals.I can’t recommend this book enough to anyone who enjoys reading about the strength and resourcefulness of the human spirit.
I was pleasantly surprised and really enjoyed this book!
I guess I was expecting a much more dry and tedious story for some reason.
After a bit of a slow start, the story got rolling and it was fast-paced, exciting and fun.
It had more of a romance than I was expecting, and lots of drama with several save the day coincidences, but that made it all the more entertaining.
If I had read it worrying about it's likelihood or accuracy, it wouldn't have been as enjoyable.
An interesting "what if" presented with facts mixed into a great reading experience.
We take a journey with Joan through the life of a woman who just wanted a chance at life and to be considered equal in the medieval world that she lived in.
The story is told from the view of various characters, Joan being the main and their experience in the world at this time and it's relation to Joan, shaping her and affecting her story as we follow her through life's journey.
What I enjoyed most about this book, being a true romantic, was in the midst of all Joan's struggle for power and equality was a love story so contradictory to her very being and so pure and true.
"A man should be free to live the life he chooses." To herself she added, And so, for that matter, should a woman."Before seeing a GR review on this book, I had never even heard of Pope Joan.
I recommended this to anyone that enjoys historical fiction.Another one of my “favourite “ quotes from the Pope Joan: “Surely you know, Holiness, that the size of a woman’s brain and her uterus are inversely proportionate; therefore, the more a girl learns, the less likely she will ever bear children.”The story:For a thousand years men have denied her existence, Pope Joan, the woman who disguised herself as a man and rose to rule Christianity for two years.

سپس به همراه برادرش به مدرسه‌ای مذهبی فرستاده شد و بعد از حمله به آن منطقه او در لباسی مبدل به شکل مردی درآمد و این سررشته پیشرفت‌های او شد تا اینکه به مقامی پاپی در رم رسید.رمان روایتی هیجان‌انگیز دارد که همه گونه اتفاق در آن یافت میشود.
همه آنچه که یک فیلم هالیوودی نیاز دارد.شخصیت اول یعنی یوحنا همه خوبی‌های عالم را دارد.
رمان را به صورت صوتی گوش کردم و تشکر میکنم از خانم سیمین کاظمی بخاطر ساعت‌های خواندن متن این کتاب بلند.
While he is away and after an attack from a band of Norsemen from which she narrowly escapes she assumes the identity of her brother who dies during the attack becoming John instead of Joan.
So once again she escapes with identity intact and makes her way to Rome.
In Rome she quickly established herself as John Anglicus, a priest with a great reputation for healing and is invited to attend to the ailing Pope Sergius.
They all assume that she is a priest who studied at a monastery in Frankland and is a very talented healer and brilliant reasoner - all things that they believed women to be incapable of achieving.
É daquele género de narrativas que estão tão bem construídas que largar a obra se torna impossível, pelo que tudo o que conseguimos dizer é: só mais um bocadinho, deixa-me só acabar este capítulo...A história em si é, também, bastante interessante.
Na época medieval a educação das mulheres era uma coisa impensável, considerada até obra de Satanás.
Uma mulher mais instruída que um homem era considerada perigosa, pelo que a única forma de construir uma carreira por via académica, incluindo o acesso a livros e a aulas de qualquer foro, só estava disponível aos seres de sexo masculino.
The author crafts the heroine in such a way that her perceptions on the current state of the church are far from the heresy one might worry would pervade this novel.
In fact, for me, it reinforced the intelligence and plain-clothes wisdom of Christ that the church officials had all but wiped clean from the faith.
While I don't think the purpose of this novel is a dissertation on faith, it does make you take a step back and deconstruct the difference between dogma and how God speaks to your heart.
At the Bishop's feast they are introduced and a red haired knight(Gerold) offers that Joan can stay with him and his daughters since the schola only has boys in residence.
her healing abilities are appreciated there, and she is able to help the pope.in some chapters, we are in the mnd of knight Gerold and find outt what he is doing, and how he finds his home ravaged.also, the mind of Anastasius - a boy being groomed to be Pope by his father.joan helps 2 popes, and then is asked to be pope herself.
The characters of Joan and Gerold, however, are strikingly anachronistic - two modern people stuck in a medieval world.
She is presented as almost dismissive of religion and piety throughout the book in a way that I find incompatible with her medieval setting.
There is an attempt to present her as struggling between reason and religion throughout the story, but I found it unsuccessful since she consistently falls back on reason as a given without any internal conflict.Joan also has some character flaws that I have a hard time overlooking.
Cross does not even present Joan as having an internal moral struggle in these situations.
