https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18921577-tales-of-chekhov-vol-9
My advice to you friends: never start a collection at volume 11, even if you like the author. There is a reason these stories were pushed to volume 11
Great collection of stories--but then, each volume in this 13-volume series has been great.
I don't see how a short-story lover can go wrong with Chekhov, though this collection--the eleventh overall in the Constance Garnett translations--is heavier on the "short" in "short-stories" than many of its predecessors.
Nearly 30 tales, some as brief as four or five pages, are collected here; and Chekhov's characteristic humor, as well as his juxtaposition of the absurd with the profound, is on full and often compact display.
How Chekhov is able to cut so quickly and incisively to his revelations--moments where two characters are impelled by conflicting scripts or have a misaligned sense of an incident's gravity--is a marvel.
They literally gather about the girls (16 and 17 years of age, while the men are everything from 17 to 70...) and staring just because they are pretty.
They regard them as if they were works of art or other inanimate objects, simply there to be admired, stared at, and desired.I am disappointed because up to then Chekov has included several much more nuanced depictions of women.
So I was hoping that the "The Beauties" would show some nuance, some action on part of the women, anything that breaks them away from being simple objects for the pleasure of the male gaze.
Twenty-one lovely short stories that (incidentally) paint a vivid picture of life in Russia.
While I enjoyed the book and the stories, they lacked that something that would tip me over into wildly enthusiastic must-read territory.They really are vivid - I feel I have a much better picture of, say, the Russian winter now; the coldness, the bitterness, the isolation - but also of some of the characters, like the eponymous schoolmistress.However, I found many of the stories didn't deliver anything to me except for a short segment of life.
This book had over 20 short stories.
His stories present a pessimistic portrayal of humanity, his characters are all self-centered and incapable of feeling any sympathy for the plights of others.
I think Checkov is brilliant at setting up a scene and creating memorable characters, I'm just not really excited to visit his stories again any time soon.
That's a shame, because The Schoolmaster and Other Stories is the 11th book of a 13-part collection of Checkov's writings.That being said, there was one short story that I highly recommend.
I'd give it 5 stars, and I think most people would find it entertaining.
They tell no moral (except maybe the last) and do not draw the reader in.
Out of the book 2 were Ok "Misery" which was miserable but at least understandably so and the first class passenger which must have been there to inject a lighter note.People keep telling me that short stories are excellent but hell i wish i could see why.
I have yet to read a short story collection that captures my imagination.
I expect Chekhov is turning in his grave reading this - well so he should - thank God it was free on Kindle
I kept hearing good things about Chekhov's short stories, so I resolved that I would read some this year. I read three, and now I'm moving on. I blame the Russian reading group I joined my first summer in Portland. For years I'd read a big Russian novel every winter, and I liked them. Then I joined that reading group and there was a whole summer of relentless Russian literature. Now it seems like I'm done with it. Sorry, Chekhov! It's not you, it's me. Perhaps I will go to my grave without reading War and Peace.
Unless you are being made to read Chekhov short stories as an act of revenge by a lecturer who was made to read it by their lecturer, avoid Chekhov's short stories - they are miserable, full of miserable self-centred characters that inhabit a miserable world. Ian McEwan says you have to read the enjoyable books you love and the Masters - their are better books that show the lineage of literature than these short stories. Some Chekhov novels are obviously great. Point made!
Now, THIS is a translation worth its salt--Constance Garnett reveals the kind of ragingly deep simplicity that I always admired Chekhov for--I may have to track down the entirety of this Ecco Press series.
Beautifully evocative stories that take you to another world. Chekhov - what can one say? He is Chekhov. The Great.
Interesting view into lifes of russian people from the old days.
Some stories I liked and some I didn't. It was my first time going through Chekhov and I enjoyed more than I thought I would.
A good to very good mix of classic Russian short stories.
I felt like something was lost in the translation or in cultural differences for many of the stories. However, some were very moving, especially the title story.
