https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6315602-my-soul-to-take
Okay, normally I really don't like books where a guy and a girl eye-hump each other for 5 minutes and then decide they're the ones that Kiss song was written for.
it's not like Nash noticed Kaylee before, so I didn't really know where the sudden interest comes from.
But of course, Kaylee is beautiful, but doesn't know it...
Kaylee is a great girl, I like spending time with her.
And I like it even more when she spends time with Nash (who is basically sex with on a stick), wink wink, nudge nudge.
A wonderful 5-star read recommended from Michelle (who so willingly read Warner in exchange for me trying one of her rec's)Do you love Meg Cabot's Shadowland series?Can't get enough of Noah Shaw in The Unbecoming of Mara Dyer?Love YA contemporary or light-hearted YA urban fantasy?Love two hot brothers along the lines of Stefan and Damon, only more along the lines of Noah Shaw (much better than Stefan) and Damon Salvatore (albeit white hair instead)?Read this book.Seriously.
I plan on reading the rest of this series and trying the author's others because this book was just what I was looking for.
Oh jeez, I think I found a new series to obsess over. Great.
Examples: (view spoiler)[ a) Father abandons Kaylee because he's too egoistic to deal with his grief (the reaper argument was beyond ridiculous), and rather makes her feel unloved for the sacred of normalcy (children CAN deal with life complications, they CAN'T deal with losing those they love), which she didn't get ANYWAY.
b) Relatives of Kaylee actively make her believe she's crazy AND make her feel rejected - INSTEAD of being loving people that take matters in they own hands and carefully step by step explain things to her.c) Raylee and Nash sacrifice another girls life to save Raylee's best friend.
Rachel Vincent, thoust hast redeemed thouself. Thyself? Thineself? Screw it. Look you’re off my shit list, okay lady?I liked this book. I really liked it. I’m not sure if that’s because I hated Stray so much (which I ATTEMPTED to read directly before this one—don’t do it, trust me) or if it’s because this book is really that good. Based on the glowing notes I took, I’m leaning towards the latter. I recommend this book to readers who:1. Are sick of hating main characters 2. Are sick of main chara
I’m not sure if that’s because I hated Stray so much (which I ATTEMPTED to read directly before this one—don’t do it, trust me) or if it’s because this book is really that good.
Are sick of guessing the outcome of books halfway through themThis book is completely refreshing for a number of reasons, the biggest being that not once while reading it did I want to kill the main character.
I look forward to reading the next one and pray that Vincent doesn’t ruin this series like other authors (who will remain unmentioned *cough* *cough* Mead *cough* *cough*) have ruined theirs.
The majority of the teen paranormal books on the market nowadays are straight romances, which means there is a lot of kissing, staring into each other's eyes, sleeping in the same bed (in a chaste way, naturally) and angst, and very little development of mythology or plot.
None of them are dumb or unreasonable, they have solid motivations and are not too stupid to live, like let's say Nora and Vee in "Hush, Hush" or Haven and Ever in "Evermore." I am so used to an array of dumb teen characters in YA books, that this certainly is a nice departure from the "standard."However, in spite of these positives, I have to say that I simply can't give the book more than 3 stars.
*3,5/5 stars* My Soul to Take was a great start to the Soul Screamers series. Kaylee, who discovers through the novel that she's actually a Bean Sidhe was an interesting heroine. There was some 'special snowflake' syndrome on her part, but she still managed to be interesting and likeable main lead. I hope that I'll like her - and the side-characters - more and more as the series progress. “The problem with getting everything you want in life is that you're not prepared for disappointment when it
Kaylee, who discovers through the novel that she's actually a Bean Sidhe was an interesting heroine.
I hope that I'll like her - and the side-characters - more and more as the series progress.
- Bean Sidhe (Banshees) - But a lot less creepy ones.- Great world-building (You won't find any vampires or werewolves here.
Finally).- Interesting, fun side character who works as a Reaper at the hospital.- Mysterious murders of teenage girls and the main heroine entangled at the center of it all.- Some very creepy demons from Netherworld.- Quite cute romance here and there, though not nearly as developed as I would like.
I HAVE A NEW BOOK BOYFRIENDTod Hudson - Be still my heart....As for My Soul to Take, I had trouble focusing on the plot because I spent most of the time either fawning over Tod or waiting for him to show up again.From what I remember, the book is fairly short and feels like an introduction, nothing more. The climax of the plot felt more like a little bump in the road. I guess that just means I have to keep going with the series.
(Mini review to avoid even the slightest bit of spoilage)I couldn't put this book down, it was just the fix I needed to feed my YA addiction. I love how unique Kaylee's story is, it really pops in comparison to the hoard of para ya out there. Most importantly the world building was freaking brilliant, the characters were engaging and believable, and the romantic aspects were age appropriate. And then there was Todd *sighs*, me likey Todd ; ).
If I was dying, I’d decided to spend every single day I had left eating at least one meal with Nash. Talking to him made me feel good, even when everything else in my life was totally falling apart.Second date talk....Noope.
DNF@20%This book is far too boring for it's own good... Annoying protagonist and crappy "insta love"
Achtung, ich werde massiv spoilern!!1,5 SterneWegen Todd und weil es ganz witzig war, sich darüber lustig zu machen xDFalls ihr irgendwas von meinen status updates mitbekommen habt und das Buch immer noch lesen wollt: Lasst es, man kann so viel besseres mit seiner Zeit machen.Etwas...
Das erinnert mich an diese philosophische Frage mit dem Zug, der auf Personen zufährt und man hat die Möglichkeit, einen Schalter umzulegen zu einem anderen Gleis, wo nur eine ist oder irgendwie sowas.
Rating: 2 out of 5.This book wasn't very original when it came to paranormal YA. Most of the book was spent with the heroine asking questions. The heroine also asked the wrong questions, or unimportant questions first. The heroine needed to get her priorities straight. I could go on for pages and point out where the book failed me, but the points below are instances in the first half of the book that annoyed me:• The hero is the hot/popular guy at school who is also coincidentally a man-whore.•
I could go on for pages and point out where the book failed me, but the points below are instances in the first half of the book that annoyed me:•	The hero is the hot/popular guy at school who is also coincidentally a man-whore.•	The heroine being not hideous but not beautiful either, does not know how she got the guy.
Yes, I understand that this is paranormal and she obviously does not know what’s happening to her, but when the reader realises before she does, then there is something severely wrong with her thought process.
I have Rachel’s adult series sitting on my shelf, they still need to be read, but when the opportunity arose to read her debut YA novel, I knew I had to pounce!
(That was totally a pun for her werecats novels, just in case you didn’t get that.)This was an interesting start to a new series.
(That’s all I’m going to say about Tod, you’ll just have to read the book to learn more about that one.)Overall a exciting addition to the YA paranormal genre.
I’m really looking forward to reading the rest of this series.
I probably should have reviewed this book as soon as I finished it earlier this week.
Instead I found and read its prequel, then picked up the 2nd book in the series, and then the 3rd.
I started the 4th book at midnight last night and have already finished it and just bought book number 5.
In fact part of me wishes I'd waited to start this series until all the books were out.
(Having now finished the first 4 books of the series I should note that the intensity of the content has increased with each book).Rating: 4.5 Stars - Highly Recommend to Older Teens & AdultsSource: Audible.com Download
3.5 stars
Sometimes she can see a shadow that wraps around any random person that makes Kaylee want to have a gut wrenching scream, see, she knows when this happens that the person is about to die.Not understanding what is going on and believing she isn't crazy no matter what people think, Kaylee gets some help from someone she never would have dreamed, the gorgeous Nash.
With his help Kaylee will finally understand that she isn't crazy, she's not going to die, in fact, she's not even human...I really want to kick myself for having this on my shelf for over a year and only just picking this up now, but I guess it's better late then never.
After reading the first book in Rachel Vincent's adult urban fantasy series, Blood Bound, I instantly wanted to read her other series so I finally picked up this one.I loved this book, I thought it was amazing.
Everything she was confused or upset about and he was there for her and when all the drama started to unfold not once did he think of leaving and letting her sort it out herself and I really loved that about him.I really loved the story and the characters in this book and I can't wait to see what happens in this series.I'll definitely be reading the rest of the series.Yet another amazing story by Rachel Vincent
I have read countless urban fantasy books and I always wanted a story set close to where I live.
It deals with death, souls and bean sidhe.
Her screams are ear spitting to humans but music to male bean sidhe.
That's when she meets Nash who completely understands her for who she is.This book is under 300 pages but it's the perfect length.
I feel like the rest of this series follows a similar theme.
My favorite part of this book is Tod, he is Nash's brother who is dead, but is now a reaper.
I hope there is more of him in the following series.
She screams like a banshee, literally, because that is what Kaylee is, a bean sidhe, a being that has premonitions of death.
Death is a way of life, but when these healthy girls are dying before Kaylee’s eyes with out any reason, there seems to be more to this than meets the eye.It is becoming harder for Kaylee to keep silent.
And in this story, there are many secrets.The topic of death is very much front and center and Tod, a reaper who walks the hospital floors waiting for souls to take to his boss is just as interesting as what Nash and Kaylee are going through.
But when I found out she’d written an urban fantasy YA series from friends on Goodreads, I figured, why not?Kaylee Cavanaugh is a junior in high school who has felt the urge to scream uncontrollably on a few occasions, which she believes are panic attacks.
To be honest, I’d hide things from her too since all she did was halfway listen and run off with the information like Super Girl Gone Emo. There were way too many times while reading this book that I wanted to smack the crap out of Kaylee for thinking she could handle things she had no real understanding of.
The story is about Kaylee who can sense when somebody near her is going to die.
When that happens Kaylee screams bloody murder, something she can't control.
Kaylee just wants to be normal girl dating the hottest guy in school, but how can she be when her classmates start dying.I really liked this book.
It was fast paced and a refreshing read.
The chemistry was their between Kaylee and Nash and they were both great characters, but the stand out character would have to be Tod.This book will leave you wanting to read the next one in the series right away.
I'd never heard of any series about bean sidhes before this one, and I'm glad I picked it up.I wish I could say that my opinion of Sophie has changed, because usually the shallow, annoying sister/cousin/whatever grows up and develops a little sympathy, but so far that hasn't happened.Also, I think I'm sensing a love triangle popping up soon.
I think that initial glimpse of her bravery is going to play a very big role through the entire series, because after finishing this book, I can’t imagine her ever taking no for an answer or taking the easy way out.
After several months I have finally finished this book. I just checked. It's been 5 months. Okay... :/ I wanna make sweet looove with Tod. *sings like Chef*[image error]I love that he is a smartass,angry and rude all the time.
OH MY GOODNESS!!! THIS BOOK WAS PHENOMENAL!!! I missed so much reading books that really got me! Review to come!
If I write a review it'll probably be for the first volume altogether. But UUUUUUUGH. Did not approve. Nope. Nuh uh. No thank you.
4.5 Star Review: My Soul to Take by Rachel Vincent  This book has been a favorite of mine since I was a teen. I love it to pieces, therefore be warned: I may be slightly biased in my review.Things that make this novel different: 1. The book features Bean Sidhe (Banshee) from Irish folklore.2. Parents in this book are actually very significant to the story.3. The MC voluntarily involves her uncle into the issue instead of trying to handle it all by herself. 4. The MC actually has a spine and do
The book features Bean Sidhe (Banshee) from Irish folklore.2.
She’s one of the most relatable heroines I’ve read in a long time.
He actually talks with Kaylee about interesting things, like about their culture and what they can do as Bean Sidhe’s.
But the thing that drew me to this book in the first place was the term Bean Sidhe.
This is what drew me to these books: I wanted more tales about Bean Sidhes.
She doesn’t feel like she’s different than other people and neither do others.
She’s want to know why the fuck he’s so interested her all of a sudden.
The last 20% of this pushed me to give it more stars at the end. Full review to come...
*2.5 STARS!* This review may turn into a bit of a rant so I will try and keep it short and hmmm not so sweet!
After reading lots of complicated and long books lately, I was looking forward to an easy read, BUT with a good storyline and a frustrating love triangle.
Oh yeah Kaylee, because yes, he finds out she has these premonitions which you also find out he could have things going on with him as well.
I just got to the point where I thought shall I carry on reading this and risk throwing my lovely iPad out of the window?
But that sneak peek turned into full time reading.
And find my self enjoying and getting hooked up with the book.
I haven't read something like the concept of this book.
Kaylee is a great and cool character.
And I love him more when I found out he's brother with Nash.
I also think that though most of the times Nash and Tod don't get along, I think Tod really cares for his brother and loves him.
The writing was good and I love how the characters were developed.
A fun and exciting read.
