https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311226.An_Infamous_Army
I was always glad to see one of my favourite secondary GH characters, Charles Audley, given his own romance, but on my first reading I wasn't that keen on Barbara.
Any time I ever wish Thomas (Sylvester) Jessamy (Fredrica) or above all, Gideon (The Foundling) had been given their own story I will reread Dominic's role in this book!Worth (who GH portrays as omniscient) is discouraging about the chances of his brother & Bab being happy together, but he also was unsurprised that a crisis brought out the best in her.
"The Highland Brigade came marching through the Place in the first rays of sunlight..."In just a few hours those Highlanders would face the French in a battle that would cost the lives of over 8,000 men.That was only the beginning and two days later the British and their allies would fight Napoleon's finest in the rain-soaked fields outside a small village called Waterloo.
I found this one in a bookstore a few weeks ago and thought that it would be a good introduction to Heyer's other body of work - although her mysteries aren't the best I've ever read, her characters are always well-formed and the writing is witty and clever, so I was looking forward to seeing how she applied this skill to another kind of story.
Barbara and Charles are the best, and we get to spend a few hundred pages watching their romance develop before the Battle of Waterloo hits, and everything goes to shit.The research that went into this book, a seemingly-fluffy story of love during war, is staggering.
The second half of the book largely consists of an enormously through (about 150 pages long) play by play account of the battle of Waterloo, and its' immediate lead up and aftermath.
The first half of the novel is wonderful in the fact that it combines the farcical romance stories that she does so well and weaves in hints of the military drama to come over the course of it.
Romance novels don't discuss battles and histories for 150 pages and hint at it for the rest.
When the 95th rifles were mentioned I was super excited to see how Heyer would depict Richard Sharpe - before remembering that Sharpe is a fictional character from another series and not a real historical person.Heyer did a good job of showing Old Nosey at his best.
An interesting comparison to Cornwall's version, where the idiotic foppish youth gets a lot of good men killed through unforgivable stupidity and arrogance.Overall though, Heyer is working far too hard to cram in as much of her research as she can.
Except in this case, it's not military history, it's fictional backstory from characters in earlier Heyer books.
Too much military and hard to understand.REVIEWER’S OPINION:I think it might be better to READ this book rather than LISTEN to it as an audiobook.
I understand the author did a lot of research in order to be accurate about the “Battle of Waterloo.” The narrator spoke too fast for me which did not help.I may be off on my percentages but it feels like half the book is about a relationship between an army officer and a widow.
It needed more explanation – or it could be my own bad memory.STORY BRIEF:Colonel Audley sees Barbara at a ball and falls in love at first sight.
What a wonderful, complex story.
There are basically three parts: In the beginning, the fashionable world anxiously awaits the results of the Vienna Congress and enjoys their freedom in Brussels, where the infamous widow Lady Barbara meets a dashing but quiet aide-de-camp to the Duke of Wellington.
In the middle, Wellington prepares his campaign against a newly escaped Napoleon, and the last part features an incredibly detailed and gruesome account of the battle of Waterloo.
What made this novel so enjoyable was Barbara: She's a self-proclaimed rake, loves shocking polite society, gambles, swears, flirts outrageously, and basically does as she pleases.
No wonder author fails to give them unique identity till she worked upon individual, i.e., after half of the book.
The limited knowledge of European History was another reason to keep waiting for the battle of Waterloo.The book is set in Brussels where war is anticipated and people are trying not to believe it and enjoy balls and parties.
The first half is about Barbara upsetting people around her and second one is mostly about war.
I liked the pace in second half.
I'm not sure I liked the protagonists but overall it was fine book.
On one hand, I thoroughly enjoyed the historical and military aspects.
It's one thing to read about the behavior of the citizens in non-fiction books, but quite another to experience their lives in a story like this.On the other hand, I did not enjoy the romance.
In this case, I simply did not like the characters, which made reading parts of this book a chore.On the whole, I enjoyed the book, primarily for its historical and military attributes.
I wish that I could have found the main characters more to my liking, but that can't be helped.
The last 1/3 of the novel consists of a detailed play by play description of the Battle of Waterloo complete with troop movements and every gory death exactly as it occurred.
What happens to the characters during the battle is blended in with the real-life events and will keep the reader turning pages until the fictional history is resolved.
Different people have different reactions to this book so I won't say if I would recommend it or not but if you read Regency Buck and Devil's Club and want to know what happens next, then I would read the first half of the novel and skim the battle parts.
In other words, you will find two books inside.1) It is definitely a tribute to Duke of Wellington and his army which fought at Waterloo.
Heyer had to spend many hours to get so historically accurate descriptions.
If someone likes to read about wars, war strategies and so on, he will think of this book like of a jewel.
Still, I have read with pleasure about other historical facts.
Witty, with small surprises, with interesting characters.There are two aspects, two things I will remember especially from this book.One is a history of Harriet and Peregrine.
But I can appreciate the whole book, with parts which I haven't thoroughly read.
This was the first book I have ever read that was written by Georgette Heyer.
I can see why her work is so loved.
It was very well written and much attention was given to detail, which I always enjoy.
(view spoiler)[When George was brought in, something in my mind hoped he would get some attention in the book as it went on and I was actually happy to find he and Lucy were married.
(hide spoiler)]I very much enjoyed this read, of course!
I will now refrain from being silly and will eventually read the rest of the series in order!
Ah well, still loved it!
This is an in depth look at the Battle of Waterloo.
I recommend this book at work to men who read the Richard Sharpe novels of Bernard Cornwell and the Jack Aubrey novels of Patrick O'Brian.
The romance is not the central element of the story, and what there is, is relatively low key.
In other words, not enough to make a guy think he's reading a romance.
There is a lot of battle tactics here.
It is a good read for regency romance readers who would like a little more info on the battle that figures greatly in those novels.
This was possibly Georgette Heyer's greatest book.
Even if you're not into battles (and you can easily skip these sections) there's plenty more here, not just the usual love story but an amazing telling of how the citizens of the town coped with the influx of wounded, the fear, the honourable and dishonourable behaviour of people in a war zone.
When Wellington says 'Do not congratulate me, for I have lost my dearest friends', you really feel for him amid the terrible carnage caused by Bonaparte's lust for power.
Nevertheless they have a beautiful love story quite à la Heyer, and as the war rages and Barbara starts to show a more compassionate side, I was actually quite in favour of her match with Captain Audley.As for the actual historical part of An Infamous Army, Heyer's retelling of the battle of Waterloo was so detailed, so intense and so overpowering that I felt as though as I was right there on the battlefield, with the Duke of Wellington who seemed to be everywhere at once without getting hit, Captain Audley who had to deliver endless messages through the masses of dead bodies and abandoned equipment, and the whole of the Allied forces, struggling to hold the line against the French troops.
This is Heyer's take on the build-up to and the actual Battle of Waterloo, as seen through the eyes of her fictional participants.
The romance between the two main characters is so-so, but ultimately very satisfactory.Not one of my favorites, but she never really wrote a bad book.ETA: 4 Feb 2018--upped my rating to 4 stars from the original 3Re-read with the Georgette Heyer Fans group.
The first half is a swirl of names and conversations that is relieved by the unlikely romance between Col Charles Audley and Lady Barbara Childe.
My 16th Georgette Heyer This is a great book but I don't think I was able to enjoy it fully. Had I never read it's pseudo-prequel Regency Buck, I would have enjoyed certain characters more and wouldn't have waited for them to ruin my fun. I spent half of this book waiting for the other shoe to drop, but when I relaxed, I became so enthralled with Barbara and Charles that I didn't mind the blow-by-blow description of the Battle of Waterloo.
As a child, I read lots of Georgette Heyer Regency romances, but as an older teenager turned to fantasy and other genres. It wasn't until recently that I discovered her two novels of the Napoleanic wars, "The Spanish Bride" and "An Infamous Army." Both have incredible historic detail. She said in her forward to one of these books that she had read every diarist (English soldiers) of these wars, in addition to all Wellington's dispatches.
This should be mandatory reading in high schools everywhere. A powerful read!
For starters, I didn't go into it expecting (as I should have) such a strong focus on Waterloo and the war; I was expecting perhaps more focus on the war than in other Heyer books, but still primarily a romance novel.
It's a tough read, for good and for bad, and it brings home the awfulness of war in a way that many books don't.And it doesn't really have a happy ending.
I mean, it *does*, kind of, but not in the way Heyer books normally do.
It's not only the 3rd in the Alistair series, but the sequel to Regency Buck.
In fact, it begins with Judith and Julian Worth in Brussells with their child and Judith's brother Peregrine and his wife Harriet and their children.
in Brussells).
Judith, of course, is in the middle of it all and her brother-in-law Colonel Charles Audley is there too, on Wellington's staff.
I have read that this book is studied at West Point for the accurante description of the battle of Waterloo.
The Alistairs are involved as the grandchildren of Dominique and Mary, who also make an appearance.
Apparently this is one of the most historically accurate tellings of the Battle of Waterloo in all of fiction, meticulously researched.
And as solid as that part of this story was, and a much as I love good well researched historical fiction, it was really hard for me to care.
And if I don't care about the characters then the war is not really going to impact them in a way that is meaningful to me.
Character dies- oh well I didn't really know anything about him or care for him anyway.
To bind the story together, she brings the heroine of Regency Buck to the descendants of the Alistairs, of These Old Shades and Devil's Cub, though you have to blink and pretend that there was another generation in there.
I suspect she forgot that These Old Shades was after the '45 and not the '15, though Pompadour is clearly reigning over Versailles, and she was usually meticulous, so it's hard to say what happened.Anyway, the characters are vivid enough to handle the powerful effect of Waterloo, beginning with the famous ball and carrying through to the horrific aftermath.
Dec 20thThis is an interesting combination of historical romance and detailed history.
Even the romantic pair are more interesting as Heyer describes their heartbreak.Jan 2ndI've been reading compulsively all night.
Many of the handsome young officers are broken, the giggling girls broken-hearted.
The story is Colonel Charles Audley (the nice one from Regency Buck), who is an aide-de-camp to the Duke of Wellington falls in love with The Fatal Widow, Lady Bab Childe; who is great-granddaughter to Dominic and Mary from Devil's Cub (yes, they make a cameo, and yes they are still perfect together!) they get engaged, they fight, he goes off to war and they may or may not have a happy ending.
While I listened to the battle, which takes up about the last third of the book, I had several maps of the campaign open on the computer and was able to follow the details tolerably well that way.
Barbara Childs is the granddaughter of "The Devils Cub" and the great-granddaughter of Justin, the Duke of Avon in "These Old Shades." Neither of those heroes was what one would call a nice person, and neither is Barbara.
Read this for the backstory, although the names were changed for These Old Shades.)These Old ShadesThe Devil's CubRegency BuckAn Infamous Army
Dominic is as excitable as ever.Then we come to the Battle of Waterloo, which occupies a large chunk of chapters at the end of the book.
She describes the carnage with an unflinching eye and really brings home the tragedy of war as our hero Charles Audley rides through mayhem, sees friends die and is himself horribly wounded.
His lover Barbara or Bab Childe is hard to like at the start of the book.
The experience changes her forever and when she and Charles are reunited at the end of the book we are left with the certainty that this is after all a match made in heaven.
The first half promises to be good, old Heyer fare but the second half understandably is darker in tone as the Battle of Waterloo looms.
I read this because I liked Regency Buck and its characters-- Lord Worth, Judith Taverner and Charles Audley, and heard that they show up again in this book, as well as the Alastairs from a few books back.
I like some detail myself, but to recount chapter upon chapter of war maneuvers and tactics, and drop more than a dozen soldiers' names one after the other, was hard to follow.
I have to admit I read this Heyer just because it continues the Alistair storyline.
The history was fascinating, but I do think the novel lost something of the wit and characterization of the two earlier books.
But though Lady Bab is a fascinating character, her storyline gets sidelined by the war and Heyer's fascination with biographing Wellington.
There was little sparkling repartee between him and Lady Barbara--and fantastic dialogue is what I tend to read Heyer for.
All in all I didn't enjoy this book as much as I expected to.
For another, the pages and pages of descriptions of Wellington's interactions and thoughts, of battle-scenes, did not really marry very well to the love story that's supposed to tie this story together.
I think if Heyer had simply written a novel of Wellington and the Battle of Waterloo, this book might have been more satisfying but the different elements of this novel were not woven together well.
I think this book is worth checking out for people who love this period and hunger for well-constructed descriptions of Waterloo, otherwise, I don't really recommend it.
