https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/769658.Battlefield_Earth
As a Mormon I feel a sense of gratitude to L. Ron Hubbard for coming up with a religion with followers that most people perceive as being bigger weirdos than Mormons. The book is good fun. An against all odds, buckskin rags to laser beam riches, story of a poor caveman named Johnny Goodboy who ends up the most powerful entity/person in the galaxy and annihilates an entire race of nasty overlord bugbears in the process. Yea it is pure crap but its pure crap with a Tom Selleck mustache
Back in the 80s when I was just a little nerd I mowed many a lawn to afford the then-outrageous sum of $39 for the hardcover of this book.
I just saw a post-apocalyptic sci-fi book that seemed to be cool and I wanted it.
this was the first book I ever HATED.
I think it went off to a used book store years later but if I could I would go back and repurchase it so I could take it and BURN the stupid thing.
Hundreds of pages of generic sci-fi Scientological DRIVEL.
Anyone who thinks this book is good.
Don't be fooled by the fact that the movie adaptation was the worst movie ever made, or that L. Ron Hubbard is responsible for the spiritual pyramid scheme that is scientology. This book is the coolest.
Battlefield Earth may have been published in the 1980s, but it reads much more like a novel of the 1950s.The main character is Jonnie Goodboy Tyler.
It is ironic that in his introduction to the novel, Hubbard admonishes other writers that sci fi is more about people than about science and then he goes on to create absolutely wooden, almost-emotionless characters.
This being the description of Hubbard the Scientology leader, especially in his later years (when this novel was published), one wonders how much of himself he realized that he was channeling into this character!Incidentally, it seems that bad guys always smell bad.
I read it in 2000, so it has been a while, but I remember just how stupid of a book it was.
He will then pretend to put up a forcefield to block the laser.
At every stage of the book it is as if the main character knew exactly what to do, and the materials he needed were at hand.
There was no real struggle, no suspense because the book trained you to expect that the main character would get what he needed at just the right time.
There were some subplots that had potential, but definitely not worth reading the book.
The book is multi layered in meaning and probably has more truth in it than most apocalypse novels.
The village is dying, with people sick, passed out on herbs, or just apathetic in their hard scrabble lives.
He ends up going beyond the boundary of his people to explore what was once Denver, discovers books in a library, as well as ruins of a civilization he had never imagined.
It's got all the elements of a good post-apocalyptic read plus science fiction alien adventures, but you have to look beyond that story to what this book is REALLY saying.
I Had to Bathe my Eyes in Fire: I read this in high school as I was curious about many different ideas, philosophies, religions, and had a vague notion that it was attached to the founder of the Dianetics thing and more importantly, I loved reading just about anything.
I finished the book and spent a few relaxing minutes with coals in my eye sockets to get the awful plot loopholes, the Deus Ex Machina every five pages, and the painfully awkward rhythm and flow of the story to leech out of my brain.
This book is just inexcusably, unmitigatedly, painfully awful.
I know right?
5 stars?
How is that even possible?
This book is SOOO amazingly good.
It is detailed, specific, imaginative, technical, possible and impossible all in one breath.
The world Hubbard has created here is so detailed it's hard to believe it doesn't actually exist.
Also, for once, this book is long enough.
Few Sci-Fi books in my opinion tell the entire story, they gloss over or cut out before getting to the completion of the event.
Truly an amazing book, I'm ashamed it took me so long to read it.
It is a fun and inspiring read.There is a "pulpish" element that sometimes raises the quality of the story and sometimes brings it down.
But he pulls it off without being cheesy and he comes across as a down to earth personality.
Ok the quality that brings the story down, is the role of the female characters.
There just really is not a strong personality among the few females that play a part in the story.
This is a great story and if you like sci-fi action; I believe you will really enjoy the escapism this book provides.
Without a doubt the worst book I ever read. It was loaned to me by a co-worker and I read the whole thing. There is nothing to recommend this book. No redeeming qualities at all. Big Fat Waste of Time.
Ha, Ha, Ha.I just remembered I read a fucking L. Ron Hubbard book!
It's also too bad Hubbard didn't stick to writing science fantasy...I mean while admitting that's what it is.There are some silly touches here (I mean Johnny "Goodboy" Tyler...) but it's also readable (for such a huge tome).
I've read all kinds of reviews of this book, some hate it condemning the writing, the science (yeah, you can condemn that...I mean I called it "science fantasy" for a reason), the plotting etc.
The writing is serviceable and not bad (Hubbard was at the time already a veteran writer with a lot of short story and novella work under his belt...and lets not forget "other types of books").
Don't be put off by the fact that the founder of Scientology wrote this novel, and definitely don't let the horrendous movie throw you off. This book is incredible! Well, at the least the first 3/4 of the book is. The last few chapters are interesting, but not gripping, as they detail the events that occur in the aftermath of the climax.
If I had a psycho hand I would give this audio performance a 6 of 6 stars!The story starts out in the the year 3000 with an Alien bar scene on earth where hard pressed misused Psycho mine workers discuss the likely extinction of humanity over drinks of Kerbango and shooting mayflies with laser guns.
This story is LOADED with cool bits of SO many items of interest.A very satisfying read and even more fun on audio.
I found the tone and expressions used by the voice actors enhanced the story accurately and created a bit better portrayal that when I read Battlefield Earth.
This book contains over 1000 pages of smooth rock em sock em edge of your pants adventure set in the not so distant future.
Perhaps its the lack of vampire sex that turns off readers?Purely speculation, but I bet Stephen Hawking after reading this novel would say to himself, yep!
This will happen...if only we are so lucky.Spoiler:(view spoiler)[ Advanced (egotistical) Aliens find our mineral rich earth, destroy most of its clearly non-sentient human vermin, set up mining operations, rinse repeat throughout the galaxy...
Yeah its fantasy because like Stephen Hawking, I don't believe WE PEOPLES will like a true alien encounter, but 'Battlefield Earth' leaves us humans with hope.
I also like how the evolution of the hero rapidly moves out of his personal plight and that of his girlfriend and the town he grew up in, to that of attempting to solve the the dilemna of mankind and then expanding from there.
While it is a classic hero's journey, Johnny is a character that I would like to think I could somehow imagine myself being (at least in part), which makes the story all the more appealing to me.I also prefer stories where honor, integrity and doing what is right ultimately triumphs.
It's times like these I really wish you could rate a book zero stars. I read this out of curiosity but the horrible writing and thinly veiled attack on psychology and modern medicine made it just painful to get through.
I suffered through this book until the very end - just so I could say I had read it. I love good sci-fi. This is NOT good sci-fi. Unless you enjoy psychic pain, avoid this book.
For me, I loved most everything about this book, the social commentary, the science fiction, the author’s conceived universe, the satire and comic relief, the pulse pounding drama and adventure and above all, the sure satisfaction of good triumphing over evil.
The final ending left me still wanting a bit more but I think that is only because the adventure that brought me there was such a rich and fun ride.You will find Battlefield Earth a deep well of science facts pushed and tugged by Hubbard to create fictional representations that are fun and necessary to the story.
I used sit in the back row in Music class, and read it, but on the second day the teacher saw me.
Heinlein"I read Battlefield Earth straight through in one sitting." - Frederik Pohl"Over 1,000 pages of thrills, spills, vicious aliens and noble humans.
I found Battlefield Earth un-put-downable." - Neil Gaiman"Pure Science Fiction...
written by a super writer of the Golden Age of Science Fiction...
the great pulp music in every line...
wonderful adventure...
a masterpiece." - A.E. Van Vogt"Battlefield Earth is like a 12-hour 'Indiana Jones' marathon.
Every chapter has a big bang up adventure." - Kevin J.
The opening line is one that has stuck with me over the years.
I first read this book as a young boy, and it was firmly one of my favourites.
I have re-read the book, and from an adult's perspective would give it 3 stars.
However, I have to consider my childhood perspective, when I would have unreservedly given this 5 stars.
Back then, I was fully immersed in this book and couldn't wait for the "motion picture" (do NOT watch this!!!).
I wouldn't hesitiate in recommending it to young readers who love science fiction and love reading, but it is not for adults.
I know that world unity and peace may be just as science fiction as aliens and advanced technologies, but I hope we can make progress in that direction.
If you want to find something out about scientology, this is not the book to read.On the other hand, if you want an entertaining science fiction novel full of alien races, advanced technology, struggle for survival of the human race, and intergalactic polotics, this is a great book to read.I didn't really know what to expect when I picked up this book, but I was pleasantly surprised.
Total dogshit.Scientologists must - repeat MUST - give this book good reviews and say how well written it is. They are not permitted to disparage L. Ron Hubbard or any of his works.
This was a 47+ hour audiobook that is a full audio production with sound effects, a cast of some 100 actors doing voice over for all the different characters and 3 hours of special music between chapters.
You can read the synopsis for the basic story line but suffice it to say the year is 3000 and Earth has been attacked, demolished and is being mined for valuable metals by an alien race...
The quality of this production puts this audiobook into a whole different class and gives you a "going to the theater" sort of experience.
This pulpy mishmash of "Flash Gordon" and "Planet of the Apes" is actually fairly enjoyable light adventure for a good portion, but it eventually collapses under the ponderous weight of Hubbard's ceaseless moralizing and bloated sense of self-importance.
The main character is named Jonny Goodboy Tyler, for Glob's sake - Hubbard's self-consciously on-the-nose reaction to Luke Skywalker, written with the aim of turning the thick tome into a "major motion picture," as the jacket copy proclaimed for so many years before the actual fact.
It actually might have been much more fun as a schlocky, mid'80s film spectacle with John Travolta in the heroic role rather what eventually turned out to be.
This book is epic.
I have read and re-read this one a number of times and each time it has been a blast.
The setting and premise of the story is one of my favorites.
Humanity has been nearly wiped out and Earth dominated by a dominant alien race.
But the fun of it all is that the Earth was conquered merely for its mineral wealth.
It is, in essence, a backwater hole-in-the-wall, occupied by a handfull of alien laborers and a few middle mangers.
Humanity was all but wiped out without so much as a second thought.
But this book is a gem.
The best part about this book was when I used it to kill a wasp.
I couldn't even make it halfway though.
I was really hoping I'd kind of like this, so I could say to myself, "Well, L.
Ron was totally bats, but at least he wrote some good sci-fi!" NO.
I have never sympathized more with a 'villainous' character, (although I disliked every character I encountered in this book, the alien was definitely my "least" least-favorite) hoping he'd slowly kill Johnny friggin Goodboy more and more with each paragraph I dragged myself across.
Andin the far more are spots where genuine creation is attempted, the result is, again taking threats bad examples, just plain stupid.This Is is truly one of the very worst sci fi books ever written...except for all the other books written under Hubbard's name.The con job religion he invented is absurd...(and, keeping him at least thematically consistent, insipid), but it demonstrably has what, for some people, that which his attempts at" literary" fiction do not: namely something that, someone, somewhere might find compelling.Maybe if I had bought the brainwashing companion-edition that goes with the religion, I might have found the trick to not despise this book.
Ron Hubbard went bat sh@t and decided to write pseudo-religious books convince people that they are under the influence of cosmic beings abandoned on earth by an evil emperor.
I feel that the only thing good to come out of the "movie version" of this film was Hollywood's realization that you can't hack away at story and present it bare bones to John Q Public and expect us to mind numbingly sit through it without at least some of the book's complexities.
after this film I think they got the hint, and hence forth, we see a lot of book version of films as trilogies.
I managed to get halfway through it (only finally giving up the ghost at the mail-in card that would get me a copy of Dyanetics), but the combination of shallow, uninteresting characters, a tedious writing style, and the book's absurd length, did me in.Maybe--just maybe, if it had been subjected to the impartial hand of an editor (any editor!), it could have been--if not a good story, at the very least--a passable story.
The kind of story that elicits a shrug when your done reading it, and is thought of no more afterwards, rather than the monstrous wreck of paper and ink that it is.
