https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/367390.Little_Myth_Marker
Skeeve tried to fit into a new neighborhood he recently moved (don't we all?) For this reason he accepted an invitation for a friendly game of Dragon Poker- I will talk about the game itself later.
There are some parts of the book where the story just stops and Skeeve or his friends sit down and do some philosophical pondering about life and its meaning.
This was also the start of Skeeve friends' practically worshiping him as a demigod who Can Do No Wrong - a somewhat undeserved reputation among the people/beings who should know better.
This sixth book in the Myth Adventures series was one of the best and most hilarious of the whole series.
Skeeve tries his hand at the notoriously difficult game of dragon poker and, despite not knowing the rules, has a lucky streak and wins.
Skeeve goes from care free lad to family man in the space of a day with hilarious consequences.
Throw in to the mix a challenge from the undisputed master of dragon poker for a high stakes game and a character assassin on Skeeve's tail and we had the perfect mix for mishaps and hilarity.
I loved this new installment. It was as much fun as the previous one and I ca say he series's getting better and better! This particular adventure was very, very entertaining. Gambling at the bazaar at Diva. What else can one expect? It was great to have new additions to the team and see them all working together. I also loved the theme of the book - parenting. Aahz's take on the topic was quite interesting. So, reading on:)
This adventure really showed how Skeeve thinks and feels about his troupe and that he can be smart, too.A fun read as usual.
Little Myth Marker is one of the better of the Myth books. More Aahz and Skeeve and a good little storyline. Lots of mystery and intrigue. The “marker” idea is hilarious! Skeeve’s a daddy! Sort of. The chapter quotes continue to be excellent. Asprin does a fine job showing how Skeeve’s growing up and becoming a man. Still could use more illustrations from Foglio but there you go. This is easily one of the best series ever.
The sixth book in the myth series. This storyline was very clever. I had no idea who the villian(s) were until the very end.
I've read enough of the series to understand how the twists and turns will work by the end, which, of course, only makes me smug and obnoxious when I'm finally proved right.
2 1/2 Stars I think Asprin phoned this one in, the story was filled with a lot of strange stretches of dialog about being a parent and theorizing about the evolutionary nature of male/female relationships. Two female characters are introduced and both spend the bulk of the book being insufferable. The "big" twist is pretty obvious and the entire story takes place in Deva which up until this book had been a pretty interesting place. The stakes were pretty low and the adventure almost non-existen
I think Asprin phoned this one in, the story was filled with a lot of strange stretches of dialog about being a parent and theorizing about the evolutionary nature of male/female relationships.
Two female characters are introduced and both spend the bulk of the book being insufferable.
The "big" twist is pretty obvious and the entire story takes place in Deva which up until this book had been a pretty interesting place.
The only thing that kept this alive was the increasing charm of Skeeve.Overall this felt like a sitcom that reached the introduce a random "cute" kid to distract from the lack of plot stage.
Dragon Poker is very complicated. It's best to play against the players and not with the hand that you are dealt.
Skeeve lucks into a big win in a Dragon Poker game at the Bazaar, leading to three unwanted consequences.
The first is Skeeve reluctantly taking charge of titular Markie, a little girl left as an actual "marker" in the game by a losing player; the second is a challenge to a face-off by the greatest player in the dimensions, the Sen-Sen Ante Kid, a challenge which Skeeve’s reputation cannot refuse; and the third is the news that a coterie of merchants have hired the mysterious Ax, a character assassin, to ruin Skeeve’s reputation, since he seems to be so good at everything.
These are also very short reads, so you can consume these in a day or two each.If you decide to give it a shot, start with book one: Another Fine Myth.
In this book, Skeeve (our protagonist) accidentally wins a high-stakes Dragon Poker game and ends up drawing the attention of "The Kid," who is far renowned as the best Dragon Poker player anywhere.
So he is known as the Sen-Sen Ante Kid.Another bonus: no bad language, no gratuitous sex, no graphic violence.
There is the odd double entendre here and there, but nothing that you couldn't read in front of your grandmother.
Another fine Mess that Skeeve and his motley crue are propelled into. I feel like Asprin is getting a bit over-cumbered by all the characters that he keeps adding to the series, because there were not many storylines (apart from the poker game) but many small scenes that showcased some of the characters' agendas and plans without ever going to much depth. Hence, this entry in the series felt more like a bureaucratic episode than a high-strung adventure. Still, great one-liners and characters as usual.
This was one of the myth books I remembered having liked the most when I read it in 7th grade. i really liked the dragon poker match and then loaning out all of the money. Good book and then at the end they formed the company M.Y.T.H inc.
Not bad, some decent new characters.
My memory of the Myth Adventure books is that Dragon Poker featured heavily in almost all of them, but it turns out it didn't make an appearance until here, book six of the series.Little Myth Marker is also the rare book that doesn't bring in a new member of Skeeve's team.
There's a good reason that's addressed at the end of the book, but it comes down to honesty and character, which is a trait common among all the books in the series.I think that's part of what makes the books so approachable.
Admittedly, I didn't really give this one a chance, and it's the 6th in a series that I never started. Perhaps if I begin with #1 I may feel differently. I know, by the sixth book, the characters and setting are so familiar, so _cozy_, that little needs to be said. Well, since this is my first, I suppose I need a little more said, but I think I'll never start at the beginning. So Sorry Robert Asprin!
Yet another clever Myth Adventures novel with a bit of a myth-tery thrown in, though I figured it out pretty early on. What I still love about the series is how the characters have some depth and value, even if some of it isn't politically correct. However, I still maintain this series of books still stands the test of time, especially if you want an entertaining and quick read.
I started with Jody Lynn Nye's versions after Aspirin's death before actually reading his versions. Skeeve is portrayed to be much smarter in his versions and especially this book. I was much more appreciative to him as a character than I had been. A funny quick read, comical light fantasy.
This is a great one in the Myth series. It's clever and full of little plot twists that are sometimes obvious but still entertaining. There are definitely some twists that are not so obvious that keep you guessing. The character development in this one is well done, and there's always a laugh a page away. I really enjoyed this adventure!
I loved this book! 2nd best in the series, IMHO, after the introductory book. Skeeve wins playing Dragon Poker and gets a mark, that turns out to be a little girl. Lots of interesting things from there. Audiobook narration was great!
This book advances and grows the group in a way the last book didn’t. Last stop before the series makes a creative shift (explained in the foreword of the next novel). I own at least a half-dozen more of these, but I’m nicely on track to knock them all out this year.
This book really showed how Skeeve thinks about himself and his friends. I was entertained through a whole book. There was a lot of plot twists, I myself got catch in some. Until Gleep attacking part, I didn't really know who the bad guy is.
Still amusing, but character growth added interesting philosophical issues.
This one kept me on the edge of my seat wanting to find out what was going on and listening to all the fun stuff that just kept coming. An appearance of gleep is always a good time! :)
It's not a bad book just missing the danger element that I love in the Asprin books. It's still funny but this is definitely a book about growth and I wanted something else.
This one was a bit predictable for me, but I still enjoyed it. There was some lovely truth hidden in this light-hearted adventure.
Also, there are enough other things going on that the story doesn't rely on the mystery.There are some new members of the cast, but the writer makes time to develop existing characters, which I liked.
(I know that you can have fantasy books set in modern times, but this series always seemed to go for a medieval environment.) Also, when Skeeve saw the Dispatcher with a room full of TV screens in Myth-ing Persons he seemed to be quite baffled by them.As others have commented, the value of gold pieces seems to fluctuate quite a lot in this series.
In this book you can tell that Asprin is a father, he knows that little kids are cute little chaos vortexes.
"How much trouble can a little girl be?" A ton, especially with that great kid ability for telling it like it is in the worst possible way.
This book is the Opera Buffa of the series, like something by Rossini.
Growing up it is called.Dragon Poker against the sen sen kid is a great quest story for the book, and Skeeve deals with it with aplomb.
He also picks up an unexpected marker from one of the other players, which leads to other unexpected events.Not only that but Don Bruce, the mob's Fairy Godfather, has decided that to keep up appearances Skeeve should have a Gangster's Moll.
Everyone seems full of surprises, and rumours about Skeeve's prowess as a card player reaches the champion's ear, which results in a challenge.
Skeeve has to decide whether to meet the challenge or not.There is a wee bit of a mystery with this book, quite apart from the 'normal' goings on.
Skeeve ends up playing Dragon Poker without knowing how to.
he ends up winning not only a good sum of money, but a little girl.
Skeeve goes back with little Markie and has the mob throw a red haired vixen, Bunny, on him.
they get thru all of the shenanigans that Markie starts and find out that she isn't a little girl after all.
her being 'won' by him had been a set up from the beginning.Skeeve also decides that the idea of him and Aahz being the leader was unfair since everyone pulled their weight.
