https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3783.Dancing_Shoes
I liked her development, as her snobbery was chipped away at, and she and Hilary reversed roles.
I think the portrayal of "working women" (and girls, in this case) still has surprising pertinence, and Hilary's final "I'm gonna get married and have lots of babies" is so great.
I think a lot of Hilary's "laziness" will drop away as she's not being hassled into doing things just because she has a knack for them, and she'll bring a lot of energy and ingenuity to being a mom.
I like this book even better than Ballet Shoes....
Not only is Mrs Winters a mean person who cares only for her selfish daugher Dulcie, they're doing the wrong sort of dancing!
Although Hilary enjoys the dances, Rachel does her best to keep Hilary from making what she thinks is a mistake.This book was a really fun read!
She's a bit lazy, and I found her to be rather selfish, But I think that out of the two, Rachel is the real protagonist, and so I enjoyed the book for most part.I'm way older than the target audience, but I would love to read the rest of the books in this series!
Guardians and parents in 'The Shoe Books' range from devoted and loving ("Skating Shoes", "Ballet Shoes") to daffy and eccentric ("Theatre Shoes") but Aunt Cora, Rachel and Hilary's aunt, is another breed.
The three dimensional characters, very distinct world building (of time, place, and profession), and amiable writing style madam remember how much I loved this book in years past and how excited I am to one day share it with my girls.Recommend for: young people interested in the stage, budding Anglophiles, and kid lit enthusiasts.
I knew there would be a typical happy ending (as there was with Ballet Shoes), but I didn't expect Hilary to have desired motherhood over a career (eventually--the book ends when the girls are only fourteen) since there wasn't much of an indication of that desire (except for her obvious solicitousness over Rachel).
I did enjoy reading about the relationships forged between Rachel and the older people in the book as well as between Hilary and the girls her age; it seemed fitting of the characteristics the girls portrayed throughout the book.Good, quick read, with the regular, expected rewards at the end.
I do enjoy Streatfeild's Shoe books quite a bit - the formula is appealing in that there is usually a snooty character who learns a lesson and another who discovers an unknown talent and surprises everyone.
In Dancing Shoes two sisters, having lost both of their parents, must go live with a previously unknown uncle.
Rachel is devoted to her sister's dancing, and the fact that their mother had high hopes for Hilary.
It's the usual lovely Shoe story, but the only fly in the ointment is major for me.
And this book was written in the 50s.
I read this book as an adult, but I have to say I find strong similarties among all of Noel Streatfeild's "dancing" stories.
There's always a responsible sibling who hates dancing herself, but passionately wants her sister to be a ballerina.
But little girls who dream of dancing or acting or singing don't care about that.
They want the dream.
Reality is homework and little brothers breaking your stuff and being bullied at school.
The "Shoe" books are about dreaming.
In the movie "You've Got Mail" there is a reference made to the Shoe books by Noel Streatfeild.
I probably would of loved it as a girl.
I enjoyed it as an adult but I think because of the movie I had expectations that were a little too high for it.
Also one of the girls in the story is adopted and at first I was uncomfortable about many characters' assumptions about adoption but thankfully not all characters held these assumptions even if that was the social norm of the time period.
Probably 3.5 stars.I plan to read Ballet Shoes in the near future.
If you like dance, kids, people drama, the vintage historical period, British atmosphere, or anything to do with what ordinary people are really like, read this book.It's awesome.
:)Personally, I like it a tiny bit better than Ballet Shoes.
Dulcie is a remarkably realistic mean girl--most authors wimp out on letting us see what a mean girl is really like, for fear of offending the mean girls who might happen to be reading ;) -- and the Cinderella element of Rachel's plot is so well handled it doesn't feel cheesy.The only thing that worries me is why the heck Uncle Tom married Cora Wintle.
But then, sometimes nice guys surprise everyone and marry evil women.
i loved these books as a little girl and this one stood the test of time yesterday.
nuanced complex characters - talent doesn't equal ambition, beauty doesn't equal kindness, loyalty is earned, characters are flawed but lovable.
plus they are realistically 10 and they realistically age.
they have complex thoughts and feelings and are eager to express themselves but frequently do so poorly.
without plot details, these are great reads for girls who are looking for role models that love performance but aren't cookie cutter and pre-date popstars.
if you can't tell, i love this book - and the shoe books in general.
I heard of these books from...you guessed it, "You've got mail." I was browsing in the library several weeks ago and happened to see these books. I really liked the story and enjoyed reading them. They are a nice easy read.
Beth re-read it so I had to. (Also, wow, has it really been five years since I last read this? That seems wrong.)Looooove this one. Maybe my favorite Streatfeild. RACHEL. Much more like I was than most child characters.And SUCH a satisfying ending.
I started this book, one of my all time favorite Streatfeilds, standing in a public library in Bermuda in November 1971, and it was years before I found a copy in the US but it was just as good as I had remembered it.
The best of the 3 "Shoes" books that I've read. Ballet Shoes and Theater Shoes both divided the reader's attention among three protagonists. By focusing on just one main character (Rachel), Dancing Shoes allowed me to really get to know her and become attached.
Didn't like it as much as Ballet shoes.
I think this is my favorite of the "Shoes" books.
I absolutely loved this book as a young girl (elementary age 3-5). If you love dance you'll love this book. It was one of my most favorite books when I was young.
She also seems to be much less affected than Rachel by the death of their mom, which could just be because she's a go-with-the-flow type of person but also might be Streatfield projecting that an adopted child would care less about the death of her guardian, which is sad and untrue, especially since poor Hilary has now lost two sets of parents.- While Dulcie is fun to hate, I could never fully hate Aunt Cora after being introduced to the story from her perspective in the first two chapters.
I used to get it as a cassette tape from the library four or five times a year when I was a young'un.
However, our current library didn't have a copy for the loooooongest time.
They got three of the set absolutely brand new (as well as a very old copy of sating shoes, which is falling to pieces) and I couldn't be happier.
As a reread it's still quite good, although I found myself liking Hilary more than Rachel.
(When I was little I liked Rachel a lot better, I'm not sure why.) Mrs. W.
Took a quick break from my nonfiction to reread an old favorite. I think this is my favorite Shoes book because I identify so strongly with Rachel; plus, the characterization in this one is absolutely fantastic. Every main player in the story is wonderfully round and at least somewhat sympathetic--yes, even Cora and Dulcie. I also love the relationship between Rachel and her Uncle Tom--as I mentioned in my review of Ballet Shoes, Streatfeild does a good job of including positive male role models even in her female-centric books. This will always be one of my favorites.
I enjoyed the book, mostly because it's mentioned in the movie You've Got Mail. Ha! The plot is good, the ending was a little surprising, but I didn't love it like I thought I would. Maybe because not all the characters are in harmony at the end. :) But Uncle Tom is adorable, Hilary and Rachel are great sisters, and the coming of age is a bittersweet thing as the girls learn what it means to follow their dreams and not what the other sister thinks they should do.
I have always loved Noel Streatfeild's books and as a child I got my library to ILL them for me or hunted through second hand book stores to find all of them. She tells the perfect "girls stories". I was always able to find one character in each book that was my favorite. They definitely stand up to re-reads.
The anxieties and strangeness of Cold War Australia make Ursula Dubosarsky's The Red Shoe (ages 11+) a considerably more intense, suspenseful kind of period piece, one that lives on in the mind long after it's finished...In lucid, poetic prose Dubosarsky explores the deep feeling and acute but partial .https://footwearboss.com/best-walking...
This was one of my favorite series as a child, and, many years later, I still find them delightful. These books tell the stories of orphan girls who discover their gifts in the world, often in theatre and dance. They have different ambitions, and all of that is fine. What matters is what they want to do. They are wonderful reads.
The "Shoes" books are nostalgic for me because I read them as a child and liked them then. Now, reading this as an adult, it is less enjoyable, but that's okay. It's interesting how the author grew up in a family of six children but often writes about orphans. Maybe that has to do with her writing and stage production career being interrupted by WW1.
This wasn't as good as her other books, mostly because the adults were more horrid than usual. It was still a nice little book that works as a palate cleanser for some of the other crazy books I've read.
I’m certainly glad views of adoption have changed about what constitutes a “real” daughter or sister. Otherwise, this was an enjoyable little story. I look forward to catching up on other titles by this author. Somehow I didn’t read them in childhood.
Great book! I watched the movie of it!
This seems disloyal to lovely Streatfeild, but while mostly harmless this was really... not substantial. Character arcs= maybe 1/2 out of a possible 5.
I have 4 books in the Shoes series and I read and reread them all the time.
