https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/491042.A_Will_And_A_Way
I read this book many, many years ago, BG (Before Goodreads).
I really like this book.
It is an early Nora from 1986, but it doesn't look its' age at all.
Jolley McVie was quite a character.
Well, Jollie has the last laugh when he leaves his 150 million fortune to Pandora McVie and Michael Donahue .
When the nasty pranks start happening, they decide that they really want to honor Jolley's wishes and will do what it takes to make peace with each other, even falling in love.
A Will and A Way3.5 StarsWhen her beloved uncle Jolley dies, Pandora is not only devastated but also furious as the eccentric old coot has left her his entire fortune with one condition … she must share it with Michael Donahue, a distant cousin by marriage who has always been her nemesis.
Michael is none to happy to learn that he will have to spend six months in close quarters with the one woman who rubs him the wrong way … or is it that they rub each other the right way?Michael and Pandora have great chemistry and their love/hate banter is entertaining.
Of course, it doesn’t hurt that the enemies to lovers trope is one of my favorites.
11/4/18 - $1.99 Kindle daily deal
Pandora e Michael conhecem-se desde sempre uma vez que são primos afastados e foram os únicos a contactar com o tio abastado e dono de um património grande.
Quando morre, deixa um testamento peculiar para a maioria da família (que não acha lá muita piada) e uma exigência aos dois: viverem 6 meses na casa que ambos tão bem conhecem.Ora, como é óbvio, eles não acham muita graça a isso mas, como gostam muito da casa e não a querem perder para ninguém, entram no esquema.
Existe uma interacção bem feita entre os personagens principais (e quase únicos na história) que a torna credível.
This was an easy read and I started off okay with it, but I really had trouble with the hero and heroine being cousins and having a relationship. I may have been able to get past them being cousins by marriage, but all throughout the book they kept calling each other "cousin" and the kissing cousin thing creeped me out. A lot. I stuck it out because I really hate giving up on books. It's doubtful I would have gone three stars even without that. It was fast and easy, but not certainly not fabulous.
Such a basic story. I read it in a couple of hours
A lovely who-dun-it, enemies to lovers story.
The H and h’s favorite uncle (they are cousins by marriage, not blood related) left them his entire fortune, including his home filled with priceless objects, while leaving the rest of the family with nothing.
So the family assumed that they would never make it.
Which family member?
I really enjoyed this book.
And Michael, well, he was easily Cary Grant to me.
He was Cary Grant in “His Girl Friday”.
It made the book that much more enjoyable for me to see the characters come to life as two of my all time favorite actors.
vraiment un super livre je lis très peu de contemporain mais avec les fêtes qui arrive j'avais envie de lire un livre qui se passe pendant noël je l'ai lu en a peine un jour c'était vraiment addictifs je ne voulais pas m'arrêter en plus de l'histoire d'amour il y a un petit mystère a élucidé ceatut pas mal du tout en sachant que ça fait un mois que je suis sur heartless de marissa meyer et que je narriveais plus à lire ça ma remis dans al lecture
Very entertaining read!
Michael and Pandora have never had anything in common besides loving their Uncle Jolly, an old millionaire who loves pranks and having a good laugh.
So when Uncle Jolly dies and leaves them a fortune on the condition that they live together for six months, Michael and Pandora find themselves trapped together in a situation they could have never foreseen.
But when bickering transforms into attraction, they start wondering whether Uncle Jolly had planned for them a future that they had not imagined for themselves.This book was very refreshing and different from Nora's usual books.
Reading challenge #24 A book set during ChristmasA Will and a Way was a nice and enjoyable book.
Pandora and Michael, distant relatives, lose their beloved uncle but inherit his manor and a lot of money if they manage to live together for six months.
During the six months Pandora and Michael get to know each other in more intimate basis and of course realise they have loved one another for years.
Other relatives who did not get much from uncle Jolly`s will try to sabotage the couple to gain the property and money for themselves.
Pandora and Michael are cousins.
And they are a couple?
This is an interesting story about two people who 'hate' each other (but probably conveniently play off each other instead).
It's an interesting story, and I like Nora Roberts' style, but it wasn't the best book.At the time though, it was a great way to get my mind off my 'harder' books, and it was available.
I needed a romance at the time.
It wasn't frothy like a lot of the things I like to read when my brain is dead, but the abruptness of the style was a wonderful change.
3.5 Two strong, opinionated people are forced by a stipulation in a will to spend six months together, will they make it? Will they fall in love? I think it's obvious but then again this genre is not known for surprises but then again we do enjoy the journey.This journey was quite good and the dialog was fun.
The story was not spectacular but it certainly wasn't boring either. It kept me wanting to read more and I was also a little 'scared' at times for Pandora. A good read.
3,5Não gostei particularmente das personagens, pareceram-me sempre distantes, a parte do mistério acabou por ser a mais interessante :)
Sweet and simple.
Pandora and Michael are devastated by the loss of their Uncle Folley.
The threats start off small - vandalising Pandora's workshop, breaking in Michael's apartment.
But the threats start becoming more threatening - cutting the break lines in both vehicles, sending poisoned champagne.
Between all this, Michael and Pandora's relationship develops.
Michael can't figure Pandora out.When the threats become life threatening, Michael decides to take matters into his own hands.
They come up with an act and invite the while family over for a dinner party.
In the end, it comes out that everyone played a part.
Seeing as this was written by Nora Roberts, I shouldn't be surprised that it was much more than a typical Silhouette romance.
Our two main characters--Pandora and Michael--are distant cousins who both cared deeply for their Uncle Jolley, a rich eccentric.
When he leaves them his millions as long as they can live under the same roof for 6 months, there start to be mysterious "accidents" that cause them to wonder if the rest of their family is trying to sabotage their success.
Michael is the typical (and enjoyable) strong, successful hero.
I do enjoy reading books by Nora Roberts and this one was no exception.Uncle Jolley was eccentric to say the least, and when he died, his will was no exception.
However, the pair disliked each other with a passion; once they'd thought about it, they decided to agree to his wishes, if only to make sure the rest of his relatives did not get his estate.That's when the fun and games start, someone's out to make the pair fail.
Part of the rules were that they could not spend more than 48hrs from the estate.
This book is really worth a read.
Pandora McVie has always adored her eccentric Uncle Jolley.
However, it turns out Uncle Jolley has found a way to provide mischief from beyond the grave.
His last wishes are for Pandora to spend six months living in his remote estate with Michael Donohue, whom Pandora has known and loathed since childhood.
But, perhaps Uncle Jolley could see something the two of them have been blind to.
As time goes on, Pandora finds that Michael may not be as terrible as she thinks he is...This was a fun and cute read.
Distant cousins who can barely stand each other's company are forced to live together for 6mths as a condition of a will through which they will both be the major benefactors if they survive each other's company.
This book was okay, but not a great Nora Robert's story.
What year was it supposed to be based?
Telegrams....., yikes, are they still used?!
I'd read a similar storyline by another author just recently so couldn't help but compare.
There were a lot of similarities.
Now I'm sitting here wishing I did have a distant eligible cousin like Michael........!!
This book was great!!
the only thing that was hard for me to get over throughout the book was pandora and Michael calling each other cousin.
I know that they are technically coins by marriage and that is doesn't count because it is not a blood relative.
I think it would have been better if the family aspect was told in the beginning and then the two would call each other by name or pet name rather than cousin.
I hope this doesn't sound too harsh because i still lived the book and couldn't put it down.
I loved the mystery and everything else in the book.
A throw away worth the sale priceI love the super natural series from Nora Roberts. Three sisters being the ones i re-read most often.i enjoy Nora Roberts' writing as a whole,enjoying characters and engrossing light reading.this one I'll not read again.i don't hate it,but i didn't care and i figured out too soon where it was going so i lost interest in finishing though i did it anyway.with a sale price afternoon read.being Nora Roberts writing,it's still better then many and worth three stars.
Fun romantic mystery with enough twists and turnsA little predictable for my taste, plus the fact that I never got invested in any of the characters. It was obvious that the villain was a family member, but I didn’t care which one was doing what. The other problem I had was that the scene setting wasn’t up to Nora Roberts usual standard. Almost as if someone said “Here’s the scene, Now you write it.”
Amazon has been putting NR's old Silhouette romances on sale, about once a month give or take, so I've been buying them as I see them. I read them all way back in the day, but I no longer have the books so this has been a good way to catch up. I do remember reading this one although I couldn't recall the ending. It was a fun, fast read.
"En résumé, une romance vraiment plaisante à lire, avec deux personnages qui n'ont pas leur langue dans leur poche, un Michael doué d'humour et d'autodérision, et d'une Pandora qui se laisse prendre à son jeu. Une lecture de Noël détente et qui fait du bien au moral !"Chronique complète: http://lire-une-passion.weebly.com/ro...
Relatives can’t beat love What an adventure Pandora and Michael have as they try to discover who is trying to murder them. Lots of twists and turns and unexpected moments, ripe with mystery and romance. Will they admit that they love each other or will they keep up the wall of pretense?
Loved the story. A dear relative dies and in his will he leaves his house to his niece Pandora and his nephew Michael with the stipulation that they must stay together in the house for six months in order to receive everything. There is humor, suspense, and is reminiscent of an Agatha Christie novel. Thoroughly enjoyable.
I enjoyed A Will and a Way...but it seemed to drag in spots and was kind of predictable in other spots. Overall, I would recommend it to readers who really enjoy Nora Roberts...it is so much in her style and well written overall. Very well edited as a traditionally published work would be expected to be and enjoyable reading.
This is vintage Nora, a good mystery, great characters, and excellent writing. Considering it was first printed over 30 years ago, it must have been one of her first and it probably was updated for the recent release. It's a quick read about two "kind of" cousins forced to live together to fulfill terms of their uncle's will. Classic trope, but it's very well done.
I read many bad romance novels and was expecting this to be the same, but I was pleasantly surprised. I actually found myself laughing out loud from some of the character interaction within the story. The tenderness of the characters towards one another pulled at my heartstrings, and Roberts does a phenomenal job at pulling the reader in and keeping them until the very last page.
