https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/172912.Blood_Test
The second book of Alex Delaware series definitely DID NOT appeal to me like the first book.
Maybe because the first half of the book, it only talked about a kid who suffered cancer and ended up missing with the rest of the family (possibly brought back to this cult who called themselves The Touch) and a minor case about a messed up father who lost custody.
The dead bodies (as mentioned in the blurb) didn't really show until the second half part, and for me it was a tad too long for me to end up caring.
This is the second book in the Alex Delaware series.
He has enough money at the ripe old age of thirty-four that he really doesn’t have to work for money, just enough to keep his pet author in stories to fill an annual book contract.
I would say that the raunch level is ultimately too high for my comfort level – too much junk in the final quarter of the book.Author Kellerman interestingly explains how he makes his psychotherapist morph into a detective: I’d been trained in the art of psychotherapy, the excavation of the past as a means of untangling the present and rendering it liveable.
I have decided to start this series from the beginning, because I have the majority of the books on my TBR so I picked this one up recently. I enjoyed Blood Test, it was quite character driven, and it raised a lot of questions in terms of morals and so on. Tough to read at times, it was engaging and interesting. I’m looking forward to the next book in the series.
AUDIO WITH EBOOKPicky readers probably rate this lowerpublished over thirty years ago the author of what California was like in the mid-eighties when the state wasn't politically lopsided and the economy wasn't in the red.Good story with insightful look at medicine, psychology, and crime. a term to understand before you read: "misattributed paternity"The only thing that is a minus for me is how Delaware and his mate talk to each other.
Love Alex Delaware and the situations he gets involved in....this one had twists and turns galore...great read !!
When psychologist Dr Alex Delaware was asked to meet Woody Swope and his family, he had no idea where this meeting would lead him.
His doctor at the cancer clinic was an old friend of Alex’s and valued his expertise; the family were not convinced treatment was helping Woody and they were threatening to remove him from the hospital.Playing checkers with Woody had Alex realizing he was a sweet, innocent child, one who had a good chance of surviving with the treatment they had down for him.
Would Alex and Milo find Woody and his family before it was too late?This psychological thriller was brilliant!
This is the second book in the Alex Delaware series, and I can honestly say that it was better than the first, which in my experience isn't usually true.
I really like Kellerman.
His descriptions of locations and people really help you visualize things as they happen.My brother once asked me why I would rather read a book than watch a movie and I told him that when a writer, like Kellerman, describes something, I visualize it, I use my imagination to see what he writes.
2nd novel in the Alex Delaware series.
Dr. Delaware, psychologist and his friend, detective Milo Sturgis, investigate the disappearance from a hospital of a very ill 5-year old boy, who urgently needs treatment.
Every little detail is fully described.
Although the brain doctor expresses a genuine interest in the well being of the little boy, and the writer proves he has a solid medical background, the fact htat Alex is playing detective, does not care too much about ethics and becomes violent by attacking his opponents, is negatively impacting the credibility of the story.
There was a great deal of irrelevant information which for me had the effect of overshadowing the real storyline and making the novel somewhat confusing
The story's primary focus is on the Blood Test-specific characters while feeding us dribs and drabs on other core characters including side bits about Alex's life as it is now and bits of his back story.It's a horrendous scenario that Kellerman twists in the last half, taking us from one perspective on faith-based healing by fearful people to a condemning truth that will make you sick.Melendez-Lynch makes a useful observation about Alex being both scientist and humanist, a judgment based on Alex's work in an early study on how to prevent psychological damage to children in isolation chambers, which led to the start of Alex's "fame".
The first was also part of the Alex Delaware series.
The book started out in the court room where a crazed father loses visitation rights to his children.
He confronts or solicits help from Alex to help regain his visitation rights.
However after Alex visited the boy (Woodey) once, he and his family disappears.
To be fair, the last 100 pages tied everything together and was ended up a very good story line.
Also, it was two story lines going.
He just kept going and could not tie the two story lines together.
Any opinions on this series / author?
Alex is called in to help a former colleague when the parents of a child with cancer want to remove him from treatment (they have an older daughter who is rather wild).
Then the parents turn up dead.Where is Woody and his big sister Nona?
Are they dead too?
Did a local cult (called The Touch) have anything to do with it?I certainly enjoyed this more than the first book (although I did guess Nona's real relationship to Woody quite early on).
Again, most of the characters are rather unpleasant and Alex goes into hero mode quite quickly.
An entertaining read, but not one of his best.
There are three different plots.
Once the reader settles into one storyline, an old one rears its head.
The characters are nevertheless fully fleshed with dialogue, appearance, actions, and reactions, making Blood Test, for the most part, an enjoyable read.I did not enjoy the scenes designed to horrify or titillate.
It is enough to know that evil exists; the reader doesn't need to be bludgenoned with it.
Kellerman's prose in these scenes felt disturbingly voyeuristic: heavy-handed and hedonistic.That said, I read it from start to finish and may re-read it again.
Alex is asked to consult with a family whose five year old son is battling cancer. Although treatable, he picks up a strange vibe from the family, which is then corroborated when the boy is mysteriously removed from the hospital and the family disappears. Alex and his cop friend Milo investigate and find out the disturbing secrets behind the family regarding the boy and his older teen sister. I never thought of exotic greenhouse flowers the same way after this book.
An excellent series, the beginning of a long standing saga with Alex and Milo working to solve detective crimes with a psychological bend.
This one is better with age. I'd given it four starts before for some reason, but it is a five star book. As before, I'd forgotten the details but not the plot. Great book!
Alex has a new challenge - a child with cancer whose parents refuse to allow treatment.
Alex is on the trail again, this time with a child's life in the balance.
It's funny, going back and reading these books from the beginning of the series as it gives me such a different perspective on Alex.
:PIf you're a fan of the Alex Delaware books, I'd say read this one.
If you're new to the character and the series, this one might seem a little slow at times.
I read Jonathan Kellerman because of his exquisite mastery of the English language.
Unfortunately, in the early books, Alex Delaware is too much of a superhero.
He is injured, beat up, shot, and he bounces back.
The later books are more cerebral, and Alex uses his skill as a psychologist to deal with threatening situations.
SPOILER: This book contains not one but two endless monologues summarizing what really happened.
And both contain facts new to the reader.
I gave this one a better review than the book deserved only because of the excellent writing and Kellerman's ability to keep the reader engaged.
In this second Alex Delaware series book, Dr. Alex Delaware is asked to consult on a case where a family wants to terminate treatment of their child for cancer. While this is under discussion, the child disappears from the hospital, under mysterious circumstances, and the parents are later found murdered.A great fast-paced read from beginning to end. Lots of twists and turns and drama around every one of them. I'm loving every word of these books. What else would one expect from Jonathan Kellerman, the master story teller?
Second book in the Alex Delaware series is a good read but seems to develop slowly. I do like the Delaware character but there is something about the writer's style that seems to slow the pace of the novel. At times it seems that there is over description, which creates a slow pace. I honestly prefer the writing of his wife, Faye Kellerman. Still the author develops a complex plot and story. If the reader likes complex thrillers that peer into the darker parts of humanity, the novel is well worth the read.
This is classic twisted, wild Jonathan Kellerman. It's pulpy to be sure, and the writing isn't refined, but it kept me gasping in shock all the way to the end. Perfect audiobook for long road trips and boring plane rides.
Sin pena ni gloria. El protagonista es como un superhéroe californiano, la trama no me convenció. Serie abandonada.
JONATHAN KELLERMAN HAS DONE IT AGAIN!
Since we have our air conditioner broken I decided to finish his book and started another book.
BLOOD TEST, the name got my attention.
I LOVE DELAWARE/ STURGIS.
IT'S TERRIBLE WHEN A BABY IS MISSING AND TERRIBLY SICK, 5YEAR OLD WOODY SWOPE WAS BEING TREATED IN A HOSPITAL AND WENT MISSING.
EACH DAY THAT PASSES HIS CANCER GETS WORSE.
THE WAY EACH CHARACTERS WAS INTRODUCED, THEN IN THE BOOK LEARNING ABOUT THEM, THE POSSIBILITY OF WHO TOOK HIM AND WHY WAS ENDLESS.
IF YOU WANT TO KNOW WHOM....
PICK UP THIS BOOK.
FIND OUT WOODY'S FATE.
I hasten to add that I based that opinion on reviews and a cursory reading of Kellerman's first Alex Delaware novel, When the Bough Breaks, a few years back (I read it in tandem with one of Vachss' books, which may have further colored my thinking).
Removed from both Vachss and the rather amateurish effort of Kellerman's first novel, I picked up Blood Test more as a way to pad the numbers for 2001-- skim fifty pages, dump it, chalk up another book in the it's-been-read pile.
Alex Delaware has been asked by a friend, a pediatric oncologist, to speak with a family who is considering refusing cancer treatment for their son.
The family is gone before he gets the chance to do so, leaving him a dark and bizarre case to solve.This is my first Delaware read.
I love such twisted endings in a book, especially if it had me guessing wrongly all the while.
I love the family stories and insight into the psychology of the characters, especially Nona.I have read Twisted and The Conspiracy Club, both Kellerman books.
Think I'd go next for another Alex Delaware read.
While I did enjoyed Blood Test I have to admit the end was a little hokey.
(Seriously, Jonathan Kellerman, is this going to be a theme?)Two plus points (besides the fact I kind of liked the plot of this better than the first book) - more Milo and less Robin.
Unfortunately Milo hightailed it to D.C. right when things were starting to heat up.
And when I say 'heat up' I really mean "blah blah boring boring more blah boring end".
Plus, I've been know to skim the boring parts until I get to a point.
Very good read.
Starring Alex Delaware, a semi-retired psychologist who specializes in children and families.
Rape, abuse, murder, intrigue, mystery, cultism and odd characters are all covered in this very comprehensive, yet not too long, disection of the human mind.
The issue of nature vs nurture is touched on here, and how human characters react and change according to the situations they are put in.
Delaware is a likeable character, who tends to attract very weird people into his life.
I would like to read more of his work.
Second book by Kellerman on Delaware.
You can still feel the not-yet-mature writer here and there, although his first-person Voice is definitely already present, and some dialogues are very strong.
Overall nicely constructed, in a very traditional way, but I felt it lost rythm and grip too often.Delaware doesn't feel very human, in this book.
In some scenes, he is all buddy buddy and sensitive and heroicly altruistic.
In other scenes, he is cold, super-hero like, to the point of being impossible to believe as a real human being.

I picked up this one and a couple of other early entries in this series when amazon offered them on sale for Kindle.
It's very interesting going back to read the second book in a series that's now more than 25 books strong - the plot is more baroque and less thematically dense than recent books, and the hero-team of Alex and Milo was both on its own and struggling against institutional indifference to their efforts at best, hindrances at worst.
That's in sharp contrast to the latest, where they have creditability, a little clout, and a small cadre of helpers.
The strengths are about equivalent, but different, between older and newer books.
