https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99662.Catalina
This is a story of historical fiction set in Spain in the latter 1500s, during the Spanish Inquisition.
We meet both Don Quixote and his squire in Maugham’s book.
Chivalry, fables, bullfights and strolling players fill the story.
The value of humor, critique of the church and the clergy, even the art of writing books is touched upon.
Somerset Maugham’s last published novel.The book starts off strong but dissolves into a fable that has already been told.
Who that is is the story.
Is it supposed to be critique of an era, of religion, of the clergy?
My ratings of Maugham’s books
Again I'm slightly ignorant about some things, so I don't know if there was a young woman named Catalina who meets up with this knight in his published adventures and if the heroine of this novel is jumping through stories like a less conspicuous Thursday Next.
I don't know if when you look up at the cover of the book if you see the Harlequin cover that I chose, but if you don't then just think about it being a Harlequin Romance cover.
Catalina bares her woes, and the woman tells her that she can be cured by one of the sons of Don Juan de Valero – two of whom, one a Bishop and another a warrior are coming into town, the third being a baker who never left the city – by his placing his hands on her and granting her his blessing.
There is even a surprise meeting between Catalina and Don Quixote and Sancho Panza towards the end of the book that gives us even more insight into the men and women of this world.
To be honest, the only reason that I read the book was because I collect antique books and found this one at a yard sale.
I started to read the book and found the beginning to be very straight-to-the-point and kicked of the story without droning on and on.
The story follows Catalina, a crippled 15 year old Spanish girl who is the subject of a miracle in 16th century Spain.
The whole book is actually about the miracle being performed and who it will be performed by.
So the story continues to revolve around the "when/how/who/where's" of the miracle.
More like 3.5.I so badly wanted this to end with the Spanish Inquisition just killing everyone, because then I could make endless jokes about how nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition--not even the Virgin Mary!
Alas, like most of Maugham's books, there is little untimely death involved.Overall, it's not his best, but it's not his worst.
It's interesting and fun to read, even with the whole Spanish Inquisition thing happening.
It's highly predictable for the most part, but the characters are interesting and fairly well-developed.
Worth the read if you're into Maugham and/or enjoy having Monty Python's Spanish Inquisition sketch stuck in your head.
This book is absolutely terrible. It hasn't even a shadow of the wit one finds in his great works. Maugham must have been broke.
A very interesting historical novel, a departure for Maugham but very well.
Such controlled, simple brilliant writing. Just started and already a 'can not put down' read.
A surprisingly funny book, Maugham always manages to bring something different in every book, we can never trust that he will follow a certain path, which is what mostly happens with other authors. While it does use religion to tell a story it's not actually criticizing catholicism, but the human condition that always finds a way to put itself above anything else. And Maugham is a master of showing us that.
I did not start reading Maugham until I was in my mid-40s, but have been eating up many of his books. I stumbled upon this hard to find copy, from 1962, at the wonderful Wonder Books in Frederick, MD. It's very different than Maugham's other works, light at times but very textured and deep at others. In some senses, it even reminded me of "The Princess Bride" and would probably make a very good movie one day.
It was OK. Not a great book but interesting enough. I knew nothing about it and read it because of the author.
Spain, 17th Century, dry humor. Virgin Mary promises a crippled girl can be cured but it's clear by whom. Three men try, surprising results.
charming.
W. Somerset Maugham's writing style draws me in every time. The plot and the characters are secondary to the way he tells it. Another gem :)
A little off Maugham's beaten path but a good read anyway.
The fact that this book is still in print even now suggests that at least a few people feel the same way as I do, even about the author's lesser known works like this one.
Not everyone likes reading this sort of novel, but for those who do, there are a lot of humorous scenes to enjoy.And that is probably what I appreciated the most about this book, its sense of humor.
Catalina expresses her woe over her leg, including the fact that her inability to walk has caused her beloved to dump her in favor of another girl, one capable of the demanding physical labor of surviving and raising a family in those times.
A good section of the book is devoted to describing the lives of the three sons, especially the Bishop.
So, the first half or more of this novel is witty and good; the last part just seems to fill up space (when I read “Don Quixote”, I wondered if Cervantes had been paid by the word).
This book is sort of a fairy tale about a young woman, Catalina, who was disabled in the running of the bulls and has a vision of the Virgin Mary who tells her that one of three brothers will be able to heal her.
The book is richest in that portion of the story - comparing the lives of the brothers - one a priest involved in the Spanish Inquisition, one a successful and wealthy soldier, the other a baker.
I recommend reading this book because of the way Maugham describes experiences of the population during the Spanish Inquisition and the world of the soldier.
A delightful romp through the Spanish Inquisition, for with Somerset Maugham such things are possible.
I cannot find the line just now, but my favourite part was when the account of a mass auto da fé in the town of Castel Rodrigruez, with the heretics on a platform waiting to be burnt at the stake, paused for a moment so the author could observe that it was a wonderful day to be alive.This is not a grand novel one reads for the plot, the characters or the themes.
It is a confection, a remnant of a time when people could write beautifully for the sake of doing so, and a work of satire and humour that one reads for a laugh.
I liked the beginning, I liked the characters, story, and direction of the plot. But then it was like he just decided he was done with it and it just dissolved into a weird retelling of Don Quixote. Very strange.
Deserves only 2.5 stars really. The only good thing about it is the storytelling itself. The plot is pretty straightforward but it built and built into nth at the end. The book cover says it is another Candide but really there is no comparison whatsoever.
His last book, that should have been a short story. The fluid economy of Maughamiam prose has lost some of its luster yet still shines through every few pages. The plotting, characters, etc. are stretched thin.
Fable like story but it emphasizes the lives of different characters at different points and does justice to giving that character' perspective on life and we get an interesting story from varying viewpoints.
Interesting, if somewhat predictable, plot with interesting characters, in W. Somerset Maugham's excellent writing style - even some laugh-out-loud humor towards the end!
Had this beat up first edition on my shelf for 15 years before deciding to read it. Its musty pages were full of life, humor, and satire on Inquisition-era Catholicism.
Storytelling as much as story.
A waspish parable. Enjoyable and quite different to most of his work.
I'll stick with that.So this book is pretty dry and you certainly have to be able to immerse yourself in a culture different from your own.
I finished the book a few days ago, but I still think about it.
The end kind of speeds things up and then just happens, which is what you want an ending to do.
I don't know which I like more and I think at the end Marquez is probably a better writer it doesn't mean that they both weren't at the top of the league during their best work.
Also this book is not Maugham's best work.

A very easy read.
The words just flowed across the page.
It was fun to see some SAT words (and know what they mean...most of them...).
I was good in a way that it was simply.
It was told the way it was, and to present to the reader a narrative.
I've never read a book that took place in Spain and so long ago (I think...).
Plus, I'm a person that isn't in favor of the church, but taking the book as a work of fiction I found it enjoyable.
Simple and enjoyable.
Overall, very enjoyable.
