https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24228353-trail-of-broken-wings
As a man lies in a coma from which he is not expected to recover, his wife and three grown daughters come together.
Each woman carries a secret, a 'truth left unspoken'.
Bruised souls, all of them.
Is the father to blame?A sad story of the fragility of family ties unraveling even further.
Her characters are fully baked, each one struggling to make sense of her life and the impact that the impending loss of this man will make on her future.
Sometimes weakness is power.
Is an individual with an absolute need to control proof that he or she is weak on the inside?
If I could have given this book 2.5 stars, I would have.As their father lies in a coma, three Indian American sisters reunite with their mother at the bedside of the ailing patriarch. We learn the back story of this broken family, and the women they have become as a result.The book wallows in melodrama -- to the point of unbelievability. The characters are uni-dimensional, and some of their actions just simply didn't make sense. I nearly gave up mid-way, but a few minor plot twists/character revelations were the reward for sticking is through to the end.
Only one daughter, his favorite, and his young granddaughter wants him to live.
His wife and two of his daughters were treated to physical and mental abuse, abuse that effected the way they viewed themselves, their relationships and the women they became.This is a novel that shows how abuse of these kinds last far into the future, even after they are not in the same house as the abuser.
I felt that at the ending of the story the author went a bit overboard in her descriptions of their reconciliation with the past.
Like watching an airplane come apart mid-flight...for hours on end.
Perhaps the cultural differences were responsible for more of the characters' individual responses to childhood abuse, but after 30% of the book, I wanted to take every one of them by the shoulders and shake them awake!
Like an embarrassed voyeur, I watched the slowly dismantling lives throw a bolt here, a bit of cloth there.
Predictably, I couldn't stop watching.
A whole, functional airplane landed, with nothing more than a couple of dings.
I simply couldn't buy it.
Everyone had to come out moving down the road of wellness?
I found myself lost in this book for a number of reasons, you will as well with all certainty.A convoluted story of harbored dark secrets tucked away forever plaguing a family and each individual member. Healing is examined in an intricate and involved manner accompanied with high emotions and stress. Unearthing buried secrets takes its toll as we discover in this broken family. The ravages of abuse, its aftermath expertly depicted. “What he did to you can never be undone. But don’t let it color
I found myself lost in this book for a number of reasons, you will as well with all certainty.A convoluted story of harbored dark secrets tucked away forever plaguing a family and each individual member.
But don’t let it color your life.
Don’t let his actions or his way of living become your truth.”
A combination of strong characterization, a well crafted narrative complete with a somewhat jaw dropper ending causing an audible gasp makes for an enthralling painful read.
As a survivor of abuse I was greatly affected by this story as well as its cast.
A stirring memorable read.
"We had learned to appreciate our lies like a veil over our lives, each untruth stronger than the facts."When their father falls into a coma, three sisters are forced to confront the secrets of their childhood that they've tried to keep hidden.
is a powerfully moving book about the dangerous and destructive cycle of violence and abuse that affects far too many families, as well as the secrets we keep and the lies we tell, ostensibly to protect those we love.
5 stars for me!
There is no way I could have given this book less than five stars.
Sejal Badani has a gift for written expression.
Much of her narrative shook me to my core.
It was poignant, haunting and beautiful and I found myself highlighting much of the book.She presented her characters in totality, giving the readers full view into their thoughts and actions.
I highly recommend it.TRAIL OF BROKEN WINGS is one of my favorite books and I will definitely reread it, after my heart has had some time to rest.
Something I haven't read much in literature until now is the continuing impacts of childhood abuse on people into their adulthoods.
Through the sisters the author shows the way abuse can affect people differently.
One sister is a high achiever who likes to control her environment and that of her loved ones; another is a people pleaser; the youngest is the rebel who left the home.
The author completed a lot of research - that is clear, but struggled to bring this to life in her book.
I didn't feel the author had trust in me, her reader, to understand what was happening or to draw my own conclusions.
There are good things said in here, and it's undoubtedly powerful.
I feel like the author fell in love with her own voice a bit too much.
One or two long, emotional metaphors per page about the power of the past, or emotional struggle, is definitely overkill, and took away from my enjoyment of the book.
I also don't think the author knows how to write believable male characters very well, as the characters attached to each daughter seemed to be pulled directly out of soap operas.
I very much enjoyed the Ranee chapters, and thought the author did a good job of incorporating the thoughts of the comatose father in those.
It was comparable to stacking branch upon branch on a formidable bonfire.Trail of Broken Wings is the story of an immigrant family from India who come to America for a better life.
You will come to know the terror that visited his wife and his daughters as the story unfolds in tidal waves of revelation.
The family maintains the patriarchal element of the Indian culture.
But this family has been immersed in the American culture for many, many years.
We know the statistics only too well.Let's see what Sejal Badani offers in her next book.
I have never read another book like this.
Almost all the time.
The author made me care about each and every character, even the abusive father, and I was drawn into their lives.
As an abuse survivor myself, I thought she handled the subject matter in a way that was real, honest, and free from cliches.
I especially liked that the story was about how each of the women coped with the abuse in different ways.
Definitely a book to read when you have time to sit and take it all in (and have a box of tissues).
Read on the WondrousBooks blog. Another gem among my NetGalley finds. To be honest, a couple of months ago I noticed that I lean on very similar books, and most of them aren't exactly newly published. NetGalley has given me the opportunity to diversify my bookshelf and to read more contemporary literature. But that can be both a good and a bad thing. I've stumbled upon some really bad and some really good books lately. Trail of Broken Wings definitely falls with the latter category.The book tel
At first I was bored by the black sheep routine that Sonya has, but as the story started to develop and enfold, I realized that this book is about so much more than a girl who decided to leave home but was forced to come back.Each of the main characters managed to make me feel a whole palette of emotions, sometimes I found them harder to like, and sometimes I found them hard not to pity.
Since she didn't have a personal story, different than the other characters, except maybe for having left, I didn't care much about her.Trisha and Ranee however were very interesting to read about.
An immigrant family from India dealing with the cycle of abuse as their father/abuser lies in a coma.
Ranee and her three daughters are all bound by the secrets,lies and knowledge of the abuse they suffered through the years.
All have a voice throughout the book, each with totally different but no less heartbreaking perspectives.
And the vicious generational continuum is center stage as it ensnares her granddaughter.
The title speaks volumes.
Be prepared.
This is a psychological study of abuse.
From the perpetrator to the multiple victims,all have issues large and small.
More like a 1.5. Predictable but that's not the worst part. It is the characters. They're all very one dimensional. There is very little change though the catalyst is there. And the eldest sister is just awful.
But despite this, I did not think this was a good book at all, though it did get interesting at some points.The first thing that struck me while reading is that this author knows nothing about India, except for saris and chai and some details of Indian food.
In an interview, Badani claims that she gave a 'Western' (though actually Anglicised Christian, and not Western) name to the abuser so that it gave a 'more universal feel' to the story.
More overkill.At one point, the next generation female, Gia (really?), too accepts abuse, and this is the one place where the character could have been fleshed out because her story is taking place in the present.
Despite it's delicate subject this book is such a painfully beautiful story.....and the writing is sublime.... through written words you are there, you live and you feel emotions....
As they wait for him to die, the culture of secrecy begins to backfire on these women, and they are forced to deal with the life and legacy of domestic violence, and what it has made them.This is quite a powerful book.
The author tells the story from the point of view of these four angry, hurt, and sad women, and each of their voices are clearly developed.
This was an excellent book, and one I think should be read widely.
because it's usually a first novel, which means glitches in the story or weaknesses in character development, and we have to leave room for improvement.
However, Trail of Broken Wings ( an excellent title) shatters that unofficial rule!Told with a brutal understanding of the effects of violence perpetrated on family members by a family member, the story elicits horror, disgust and, ultimately, healing...to a degree and long term.There is such depth to the story that this reader wonders about the background of the author.
Could a person not experiencing this childhood write with such clarity of thought about it?
EH?Trail of Broken Wings could've been a lot better in my eyes.
Throughout the book we learn about their broken family, how each person was changed from their experiences, and who they have become today.As for the characters, they were meh.
I couldn't connect to any of them nor did I care about their lives.
Of course, I obviously did turn the page because I just needed to see how this crap was going to end.Overall, it was kind of predictable and I was still bored with this book.
It just didn't seem realistic to me and again, I just couldn't connect to ANYONE.
This was a really powerful book, one that stopped me and made me think about it and my own life.As I was making my way through this book, I became frustrated with how the characters were handling certain situations.
But as I kept reading, something that Marin said caught my attention.
That stopped me in my tracks and really made me think about how abuse effects people.
So I got rid of my judgmental outlook and paid closer attention to how each character was dealing with the pain of their past, broken as they all were, and at that point I couldn't put the book down.
Totally disappointed in this book.
I finished it but could easily have stopped mid-way through.
There was the opportunity here to really divulge the reality of generations of abuse but my god...how many times can you be told the same thing over and over and over.The characters were predictable, the progress of the plots of the three sisters, the mother and the grand daughter were so cliche as to be silly and the writing was phony as hell.
The neatly wrapped up endings were laughable to me.
Perhaps young people might find this information new enough to be interested but there was no new insight for me.
That is the same blood that is in me, in your mother, in Sonya masi, in Trisha masi.
So whatever you do, whatever happens to you, it affects all of us, because you have our blood.” She holds Gia’s face gently in her palms, staring directly into her eyes.
אביה ציפה לבן, וכאשר סוניה נולדה הוא היה מאוכזב בצורה קשה שהחמירה את התעללותו.בזמן שהאב בקומה והמשפחה ממתינה לבשורות, חייהן של הבנות מתפרקים לרסיסים."Maybe when one door shuts, another one doesn’t really open.
גם חייהם מתפרקים במהלך הספר והגילויים שנחשפים גורמים לטלטל עזה וכואבת.סוניה שחזרה נאלצת לחוות את הזכרונות, את הפחדים, את עצמה.הספר הזה עוסק בצורה עמוקה ביותר בחווית האלימות במשפחה.
Three adult sisters, Sonja, Marin and Trisha, along with their mother, Ranee, take turns sitting at the hospital bed of their father, Brent.
The doctor comments on how faithful and full of love they must be as a family because more than most, one of them is there every day.
Will they ever have the courage to talk about the elephant in the room - Brent's abuse?With the exception of Sonja, all of them are married.
However, every one of them is unhappy and still struggling with the effects of their father's abuse.
However, Ranee spoke under compulsion, prodded by Brent to reject Sonja.
Blah. The best thing about this book is title.
Trail of Broken Wings is a beautifully written novel about a horrible topic–domestic abuse.
I personally don’t gravitate towards books that deal with abuse, domestic or sexual.
The book tells the story of an Indian family living in America.
Each one of them recounts their lives, their memories, their abuse under the hands of their father, and how they have come to cope with it.
When your life is no longer yours but conjoined with another’s, each dependent upon the other to survive and thrive.”The book has some description of violence but it is not too graphic.
Overall, it is a beautifully written book.
I downloaded Trail of Broken Wings as my Kindle First book for April.
One of the big advantages of the program is that I get to read books that don't have much, if any, foreknowledge of going in.
This was certainly the case with Badani's family drama.Trail of Broken Wings is a dark story about a family torn apart by physical and sexual abuse.
One is that the story becomes melodramatic at times, especially regarding the oldest daughter's handling of her own family's crisis and regarding the mother's responsibility for her husband's failing health.The other major drawback is that sometime's the author's research becomes too obvious.
I won a set of these books from TLC Book Tours for my book discussion group.
We're reading it for our February meeting and hoping to Skype with Sejal Badani, the author.This is a heart-breaking, poignant novel that I could not put down.
For those of us who were damaged by a childhood, this novel offers a mirror to our pain, even though it may not be the same pain as experienced by the characters.
I will warn you, your heart will be broken and you will shed tears...but it's so worth the journey!
While I found the story compelling and the characters intriguing, this book suffered from way too much self-analysis and introspection. For every paragraph of story there was another paragraph of internal monologue, wherein the characters would basically say, "The reason I reacted like this is because of this thing which happened in my past." Pretty quickly it felt like I was being hit over the head with it. Yes, the past had left them scarred, but I didn't need it explained to me on every page.
4.5 stars!
Powerful. Moving. An inside look at how others choices can have such a profound impact on ours. At times I found myself screaming at the character to say something! Take the gift! Let him in! But in the end, when your wings were clipped long ago, it's very difficult to fly.... I'm not sure a book moved me the way this me did for a very long time... If ever. Highly recommended. Almost didn't read cause it didn't strike me as a thriller/mystery/suspense; and it wasn't... It was just damn good.
