https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6000876-girl-missing
First let me say, the author has a note at the beginning that states that she wrote this book long ago (1994) and she updated it in 2008 for the times (republished in 2009).
Both of which did in fact existed in 1994 & 2008 for that matter.But outside of that, this book had many plot holes and a touch of insta love.
She wasn't on vacation, yet, she hardly went to work at all with no excuse other than she had to investigate.
(hide spoiler)]There were many others, but those are the first to come to mind.Also, this book read like J.D. Robb's Eve Dallas series.
In her introduction to this updated edition of the 1994 novel, Tess Gerritsen describes it as the bridge between those books she wrote that were more overtly romances and the more recent novels which are more aptly placed in the mystery/crime/thriller family.
The link between this novel and her more famous books is the career of the protagonist of Girl Missing, that of Medical Examiner.People are dying of an unknown drug, a powerful, apparently new, narcotic.
The remaining part of the bridge of Gerritsen's romance days arises during Kat's investigation, in people, more specifically a person, she meets.
This book, previously published as Peggy Sue Got Murdered is the bridge book, where Tess Gerritsen went from writing romance to writing thrillers. There is still plenty of romance in this book, but if edge-of-your-seat thrill rides are your thing, then this book does not disappoint. The characters are so personable you actually feel as if you know them, The storyline is fresh, and it leaves you guessing until the very end.
Admittedly such a thing was aided by the fact that the book is short, but that does not remove the fact that it is a truly gripping story – if anything, it just makes it a nice quick read that you can complete in a couple of hours.Both the criminal aspects and the romantic aspects were addictive – each in their own way.
As it was not a case of working things out two chapters in, I can say that I’m glad to have found a crime book in which the answers were not screaming at me from the start.Overall, I loved it!
I had forgotten how easy this author was to read. And it was just what I felt like, so I found two others of hers and will read them soon!
This book was terrible. It was advertised as a thriller. It might have been better advertised as "a pretty crappy thriller with pretty crappy romance parts, too." In Gerritsen's defense, she has noted that this was her first book when moving from the romance to thriller genre, but that isn't enough of a reason for this to be so bad. The writing is choppy and feels unnatural. The characters are flat and uninteresting. The situations they get in and many of the things that happen are downright unbelievable. This book was awful.
REVIEW: GIRL MISSING by Tess GerritsenOriginally published in 1994 and revised for this new edition, GIRL MISSING marks the transition between author Tess Gerritsen' s earlier romantic suspense novels, and crime thrillers. In this mystery, an acutely intuitive city Medical Examiner clues into a series of untimely deaths, that others refuse to view either as connected, or as homicides. But as ME Kat Novak proceeds, she is soon validated, by finding her own life newly endangered.
İlk başta söyleyeceğimşey şu: Edisyonu daha iyi olabilirdi.Onun dışında yine katili tahmin edemedim. Güzel bir kurgu, fena olmayan karakterler, iyi diyaloglar. Kısacası sevdim kitabı, tavsiyemdir.(Dikkat Spoiler: Ben Belediye Başkanı azmettirdi sanıyordum ama çok başkaymış )
Originally title "Peggy Sue Got Murdered" and published some time back, this reissue is now available in digital format and has been updated a little.
Published way back in 1994, this title and the cover of the paperback I have, makes this book look and sound like a cozy mystery.
The author best known for the wildly popular Rizzoli and Isles novels.M.J is a medical examiner putting her life back together after a divorce from her politically ambitious husband.
When a Jane Doe comes in with track marks on her arms, the obvious conclusion would be a drug overdose.
Published way back in 1994, this title and the cover of the paperback I have, makes this book look and sound like a cozy mystery.
When a Jane Doe comes in with track marks on her arms, the obvious conclusion would be a drug overdose.
M.J. calls the number on the off chance the person may be able to ID her Jane Doe. Adam is stunned by the phone call.
The book is a romantic suspense novel, but the cover is almost like a cozy or maybe even a chick lit mystery novel.
I've read all her stand-alone medical thrillers and all the books of the Rizzoli/Isles Series.This was our February 2011 Group Read in the Tess Gerritsen Fans Group.
It was a bit inconsistent for me - it seems the story was set in 1994 but they decided to throw Sponge Bob in the story just because he's such a popular character.
I don't like Sponge Bob so it really bothers me :-)Also, there is no explanation whatsoever as to why this book was originally titled "Peggy Sue Got Murdered".
Girl Missing is the new revised version of Tess Gerritsen’s novel, Peggy Sue Got Murdered.
In a brief interview with Tess herself, she describes this book as her bridge novel from romantic suspense to thriller.
He doesn’t recognize Jane Doe but Kate has a feeling that there is more to Adam than he is letting on.
As more bodies show up, Kate will have to with Adam’s help figure out what is killing people before it is too late.Girl Missing is the first romantic suspense thriller I have read by Tess Gerritsen.
The author lists her book as more a romantic read with basic thriller elements, apparently before she went into full thriller mode with later, more well known books that she is famous for. I admit I was a bit cautious as I'm not into romance haha but I found it to be a fairly solid thriller nonetheless!
Ir kaip pati sako, nuo krūvio ir streso ji pailsėdavo tik kurdama romantiškas knygas su įtampos prieskoniais.
Jau pačiam pirmam „Pražuvėlės“ puslapyje autorė savotiškai atsiprašo ir įspėja – tai nėra pati jos geriausia knyga.
Jiems besigilinant į žmogžudystes, pavojus kyla pačiai Ketei – vis daugiau „nelaimingų atsitikimų“ nutinka šalia jos.Nevyniosiu į vatą – na tikrai, nėra tai pats geriausias Tess romanas.
Bet negaliu labai pykti, juk visi nuo kažko pradeda, tačiau ne visiems pradėjus nekaip, pavyksta savo kūrybą ištobulinti taip kaip Gerritsen.
Na, bet juk visi nuo kažko pradedam.
When you start this book be sure you have time to read it because it is difficult to put aside even for a minute.
3,5 kısacık bir hikaye oldu yahu ..istediğim tüm özelliklere sahip olsa da çabuk bitti ..erken bittiği için yarım puan kırdım :))) madem yazıyorsun biraz uzun yazsaydın ya ...
Good book, it kept me flicking the pages till the end. A few twists and turns along the way but I felt the ending came very quick, not much of a build up to the climax but that is much better than too much build up. Solid 4 from me.
Hmm bu sefer ki kitabının konusu neydi bi bakalım ;Genç ve güzel bir kızın cesedi bulunuyor.
Tam cesedi incelerken Adli Tıp Uzmanı Kat bir şey fark eder.
Yani ölümü bi nevi sakin gerçekleşmişDaha sonra,ilk cesedin bulunduğu bölgede bir ceset daha bulunur.Aynı şekilde sakin bir ölüm ve ikisinin kolunda da bir iğne giriş izi.Ölülerde bulunan madde ne diğer uyuşturuculara benziyor ne başka bir maddeye.Daha sonra cesedin avucunun içinde çıkan telefon numarasına ulaşır.
Adam’a cesedi görmesi izin verilir ama korktuğu bir şey vardır.
Ve Kat bunu öğrenmeye çalışır.İşin gizemi yavaş yavaş çözüldü ama katil… Tahmin etmemiştim gerçekten.
‘’ Kat ‘’ dedi.
Son 100 sayfada katile dair ipuçları var yani iki kişiden biri olduğu anlaşılıyor da açmayayım bu konuyu sır olsun ;))Ama yok bu yazarın tek kitapları serisi gibi güzel değil ya da bunlar acemilik kitapları bir araştırmam lazım :)) Yine de ben çok beğenerek okuyorum Tess'i.
Bu kitapları puanlarken de aslında Tess kitapları içinde en sevdiklerime göre puanlıyorum yoksa bunlar da çok güzel :))
Kat Novak, the ME, is out on the streets tracking down info that lead to the murders of several lowlife citizens.
Where are the police in all of this?
Eating donuts.
As a matter of fact, every time Det. Ratchet is mentioned he is eating, thinking about food or talking about food, with a description of how fat and disgusting he is tacked on just in case you missed what sort of sorry character he is.
Make Kat Novak a police officer and give Ratchet some character, and Gerritsen would have had a pretty decent book.
I reviewed an electronic copy of this book via the publisher and Netgalley.
This has no bearing on my rating or review.4.5 stars.This book was really good.
I've only read one other book by this author and I remember liking it.
One reason was because day book was brutal.
The books are about murder but I grew tired of hearing about some brutal, torture and rape case.
Girl Missing was the perfect book to ease back into the genre.
There was murder but it wasn't overly graphic.
It had plenty of romance, suspense and all the characters were personable.I would recommend this book.
ARC received from: NetgalleyRating: 4.5*One-Sentence Summary: An ME goes on the hunt for a killer and things get personalReview: Tess Gerritsen described this book as being a bridge between her writing worlds of romantic-suspense and thriller and I have to say I thoroughly enjoyed this offering because of the mix. The whodunnit element was gripping and you couldn't help but root for Kat Novak.
This is one of Tess Gerritsen's first medical mystery/thriller book. She considered it her transition from romance to medical mystery/thriller books. It was entertaining and since the narrator was my very favorite narrator Susan Ericksen I really enjoyed it. At the end of the audiobook was an interview with the author she discussed being the daughter of Chinese immigrants, going to medical school because her parents didn't think writing was a way to make a living and watching horror movies as a child with her mother who didn't speak English well but could understand horror movies.
A great suspense with some interesting twists and turns.
Elime aldığım gibi bitirdim. Polisiye yönü biraz zayıf olsa da güzel vakit geçirdim. Zaten kalın bir kitap da değil, güzel basılmış. Martıdan çıktığı zaman okumamıştım, kısmet bu basımaymış.
Tess Gerritsen wrote this stand-alone romantic suspense prior to her Rizzoli and Isles series. It features medical examiner Kat Novak who is determined to root out the drug that is killing young people from the projects. The top brass want her to drop the case and when she won't, she becomes a target.
I really enjoyed this book. I liked the characters, it was an easy read, and I didn’t figure out the ending before the ending...
Mooi boek. Lees je in één ruk uit.
Book Info: Genre: Thriller/Mystery/Romantic SuspenseReading Level: AdultRecommended for: Fans of suspense/thrillers with romance Trigger Warnings: murder; drug use, abuse, and overdoseMy Thoughts: I had a huge problem with a big section of the story, in which Kat takes Adam all over the morgue, shuffles through the corpses, and through the paperwork.
Then to aggravate things more, the women reading the book was all over the place with accents.
This was all very distracting, which is a major reason I don't like to listen to audio books unless I know the reader and know they are good at it.
Nice little thriller, very quick read! I did not want to put it down. I did not realize that Tess Gerritsen wrote more romance books before her criminal thrillers. She describes this book as a bridge into her criminal thriller books. I don't care much for most romance books so I look forward to checking out more of what came after this bridge book.
