https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/317504.Mistress_of_the_Empire
*** 4.75 ***Yes, there were parts that were a bit slow, there was too much sorrow at other times, and the political machinations were the most prevalent part of the trilogy, but as a whole, this is one of the best three books strung together I have ever read!!!!
Loved every moment of it, even when it got preachy at the end and despite the tears and heartache it made me live through.
It had some very cruel moments, but all of them were essential to the plot and none of the violence was ever gratuitous.
All who have not read it yet, what are you waiting for????
This is classic epic fantasy by a pair of masters of the genre.I could waste your time by recapping the plot* - so, instead I'll focus on the standouts that make this story an easy 5 stars.[1] This story is written to evoke emotions - you will feel a lot while reading this book, you will feel along with the characters, grief and sadness, joy and triumph, fear and courage, and a sense of wholeness as all threads are brought to their natural ends.[2] World building: Is Tolkienesque in scope and quality.
If you're at all interested in Feist's work and the rest of the Riftwar Cycle, start with the Riftwar Saga Trilogy before you read the Empire Trilogy.
It's not absolutely necessary but it'll add depth to the world.I would hate to spoil anyone on this lovely trilogy, which is why I'll keep the plot info to a minimum.
There's not a lot of magic, instead it's all about intrigue and politics.Mara is possibly the best female fantasy character I've encountered so far.
The villains are intriguing and relatable.I enjoyed every part of this trilogy, even the romance.
I could retitle the book "Arakasi and Lujan" as those are the two character's whose plots most resonated with me.
These two characters had perhaps the most drastic arc from the first novel in the trilogy when they were little more than outlaws.
Probably not, but the path they were on was destined to be of little consequence to the rest of the world.
Empowered by Mara they rise to heights that were unimaginable to them at birth.
There was no doubt that Mara's meteoric rise would continue in this novel, and it does.
The world of the Tsunami is expanded on last time in this novel.
The last book ended with Mara comfortable and secure, at the top of Tsurani society with her enemy house finally defeated.
I’ll confess, at the end of the second book in the trilogy it felt like there was nowhere left to go with the story.
Her rival house was defeated, and Mara finally had the security she had fought for ever since her father and brother died.
There was one thing nagging me about the series, and it took me until the last book to put my figure on what it is.
A great conclusion to one of the best trilogies I've ever read.It did have a bit too much sorrow at times and a tad too much political intrigue at others but on the whole, it was an amazing read which has earned a place among my all-time-favourites.
A fabulous finish to a great trilogy. I've read & enjoyed other books & series by both authors, but I think that together, they were even better. Thanks, Janny & Ray!
A great ending to a superb saga. With a very satisfying ending and a very thrilling storyline, a must read for anyone who enjoys reading a good story.
I have strongly mixed opinions about this books; parts of it excite me so much that I thought 'this is a truly magnificent scene', while other parts made me fume with irritation and disbelief.Let's start with the good part.
that left me unable to put the book down for a few chapters because of how powerful its impact was on the story and characters.
Very good, rather lengthy, but superb!
It's officially one of my best ever series in epic fantasy.
There's a whole lot of character development and a whole lot more action, more than the two previous books combined.
Fans of G.R.R Martin will be pleased by this unique take in political thrill that uses exceptional world-building and a setting-plot system that rivals even that of WoT despite it being relatively short: a trilogy.
It's one great book, with a greatly satisfying ending.
Ladies and gentlemen of the epic fantasy fandom, I present to you Mara of House Acoma.
But Mara manages to give them a slip under pretext that she has taken a shelter in a temple for self discovery.The voyage changes Mara perceptions regarding the magicians.All in all I really loved empire trilogy and was quite surprised that wurts and feist did not collaborate further for writing such amazing books.I am definitely going to read riftwar saga by feist, and wars of light and shadow by wurts.I give this book 4/5 stars.
Uma saga!
Teria tanto que contar atendendo que é a conclusão mas não vos quero enfadar e se querem mesmo saber têm que ler.
Reforço apenas que o mais relevante e interessante é a mudança da linha de pensamento do povo Tsurani que vivia manipulado sem sequer se aperceber pela Assembleia de Magos e respectivos Mantos Negros.
Há uma humanização e libertação que conduzirá a vidas muito mais justas, sinceras e sem opressões.
Com algum peso em tramas políticas que por vezes empatam um pouquinho a leitura, conforme tenho vindo a dizer, mas que não retira brilho no seu todo.
I’m pretty much still living in that magical and different world.The Empire Trilogy: 1,924 pages of politic intrigues, plots, spy network, poisoning, assassinations, massacres, vengeance and blood feud.The story is also about tradition, honor, amazing creatures and lots of magic.
These books can be a little dense, especially for those who are not into politics, but I enjoyed every single page.
The main character, Mara, has grown and matured so much since the beginning of the first book that I really had the impression many years have passed in the story.No more words… I give it 05 stars!
Το τελευταίο μέρος της τριλογίας, λοιπόν, η αγαπητή μας Mara είναι ίσως η ισχυρότερη γυναίκα της αυτοκρατορίας, αυτή η δύναμη που έχει στα χέρια της, όμως, την κάνει κάπως απρόσεκτη με αποτέλεσμα να κάνει κάποια λάθη που οι αντίπαλοι της που ακόμα δεν έχουν πει την τελευταία τους λέξη σπεύδουν να τα εκμεταλλευτούν.
Με λίγα λόγια οι συγγραφείς τελειώνουν την τριλογία με τον καλύτερο τρόπο, βάζοντας τα πράγματα στη θέση τους, αποχαιρετώντας συγκινητικά τους πολύ αγαπητούς μας χαρακτήρες και ολοκληρώνοντας το μήνυμά τους για την αναγκαιότητα της συνεχούς αλλαγής και τη στασιμότητα που φέρνει η υπερβολική προσκόλληση στην παράδοση.
Out of all the books I've read, Mara is the most multidimensional character I've ever come across and in this book, you see all of those sides flourish with every page.
I love that readers are often reminded of how beautiful Mara is during this story--and that she has never been more beautiful in her many years of wisdom, in fact.
Now, I hope to share Mara with other people in my life, too, for many years to come.
The character I know and love is not left without scars, and I say that makes for a better conclusion to this amazing trilogy.
The way this first quarter of the book is written is confusing and lacklustre, but does set up the rest of the story which is Mara vs the Black Robes and Assassins and Anasatzi.The other three-quarters of the book is utterly brilliant, totally gripping and in places heartwrenchingly sad.
I did give a great cheer at this as I was wondering if Feist even knew that women could talk to each other about serious subjects!!The finale of the book is gripping and heartwrenching in equal parts.
I cannot say enough bad things about this book.
Here's a drinking game: Drink anytime an old person is described as "wizened", someone counts off things on their fingers (if they're not actually counting anything, chug), anytime someone inclines their head, all chapters that begin with "[Noun] [verb]ed," and any time you want to slit your wrists.
Awful.
This book was awful.The authors have obviously never taken the advice "Show, don't tell." Chapters are divided arbitrarily.
It will take three chapters (100 pages or so) to cover five minutes of "action", and then in three sentences, five years will have gone by.
This book is an insult to the written word.
If I should give my rating stars I will give 10 not 5 stars.
The beginning of the book was pretty good.
I had been disappointed with the second book in this series and was hoping for this to end with a bang.
Unfortunately it did not and now I can't decide if this was a good investment of my time or not.
There was too many time jumps and things happening off-screen which lead to a jumbled mess of information being spoon fed to you.
At times I almost felt as if it was a completely different duo writing.
Also, I really disliked Kevin in the second book.
I am not ashamed to admit that if I never see this trilogy again, it'll be too soon.
The authors turn everything they've written in the previous two books on its head, just for the sake of making us feel pity for Mara, who is even more self-serving in this one than in the other two, even though the authors have tried to disguise it as grief.
Over-padded, over-bloated, ridiculous political wrangling doesn't equal plot unless there is also a story to sustain it, and there's nothing like that here, except a rehash of the first two, just with different names.
Tragedy after bad thing after setback after disaster happen to Mara, and at first it’s so bad she goes a little catatonic, and then makes some SEVERE missteps.Then, Mara being the awesome heroine she is, she decides if the system is broken, she’s just going to have to pull the whole thing down, and proceeds to do so.An Epic Quest at its finest, with the stakes sky high, and heroine who will do anything to protect those she loves.
Alla fine toccherà al povero Arakasi sistemare questa bella gatta da pelare, visto che sarà lui a doversi infiltrare per uccidere il gran capo del gruppo e rubare il registro con l'elenco delle vittime e il nome di chi ha commissionato l'omicidio...quei capitoli sono davvero incredibili!- Jiro della casata degli Anasati...allora, questo qua mi è stato sulle palle fin dall'inizio, visto che dopo un sacco di anni, continua a rompere con la storia che Mara ha scelto suo fratello come primo marito e che quindi lui si è risentito (convinto di avere a portata di mano la sua possibilità di raggiungere il potere, dopo essere stato bullizzato dai fratelli cattivi,e sorvolando sul fatto che il fratello prescelto non ha fatto una gran bella fine)...insomma, un idiota di prima categoria.
Tragedy befalls the renowned Servant of the Empire, and dark forces are determined to destroy every thing Mara holds dear.
Yet she dreams of liberating her people, and won't allow any bloodshed to deter her.Once again we are presented with a brilliant book laced with intrigue, bloodshed, revenge and love.
Civil War and the treacherous Assembly of Magicians threatens to plunge Mara's world into chaos.
Mara's character only continued to thrive in this book and her development was phenomenal.
She's changed so much since the first book.
Of opening the pages and being transported to this world of deceit and power.
A world that changed me as a reader.
Mistress of the Empire is the concluding volume in the Empire trilogy. It is a wonderfully satisfying ending to a fantastic story and one of the best fantasy series out there. It takes Mara to the height of power, but also the depth of despair and brought me to tears on several occasions. Discussing the book will of necessity provide spoilers for the previous two books, though I will strive to keep them to a minimum.We rejoin Mara's story about five years after the events told in  Servant of the
. The baby she was expecting at the end of the previous book has been born a son, whom she's named Justin and together with him, Ayaki and her new husband Hokanu she's made a home at the former Minwanabi estate.
Are the actions she takes in this book those of a mother protecting the lives and future of her children or those of a Servant protecting the Empire?
As for me, I need to track down some of Wurts' solo books; if they are as good as the Empire series, I'm in for a brilliant read.***This review is part of my Midkemia Reread, in which I read all the books Raymond E.
I think everyone who has read the great fantasy classics longs to find new books that give the same experience.
It also has a lot to do with the writing and the humanity of the truly great stories.
A good fantasy novel has to touch something in the real world.
Through this book, I have been pleased, provoked, thrilled, impressed and touched.
The book is not quite as epic as The Lord of the Rings, or quite as fun as Harry Potter, but within its scope, I’d say it earns a place as a fantasy classic.
Mara's story is nail biting from beginning to end. What an agent of change! There are so many characters I love and so many who make me really angry!I can't get rid of my Empire trilogy series as I just like to reread it every 10 years or so. Now that I'm getting older it will be more frequently.
:O
4.5 Stars. 4 was too low. Not as good as the first 2 in this trilogy inside of this 31 book saga. That being said, very solid.
It's a real "potential - could go really far!" type book that just doesn't live up to what it could be, but it's concept is still so good it's worth some credit no matter how you look at it.Feist's strength is in creating worlds that are interesting, highly loveable characters and initial (usually first book) plots.
His weakness is anything past that initial plot, signposting the passing of time, dodgy and unrealistic love stories, and structure.
His are the kind of books you read because you love the characters so much, giving up long after you normally would because you keep thinking "oh come on!
