https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/571502.Just_Me_and_My_Puppy
It is so much fun to read, and at the same time, it brings you back to your own hap-hazard experiences as a parent of a small child.Extension: The children can learn that having a pet is a big responsibility.
There are many things that you need to learn so that you can do a good job caring for it.
The children can also learn about the expence of a pet.
The teacher can give them a list of all of the things that a puppy needs and how much each item costs.
today I read a book called'JUST ME AND MY PUPPY'. The author is Mercer Mayer. This book is fantasy story. The story is critter and puppy story.The book was very fun and interesting
This is a good one to read with kids who just got a pet dog, or are thinking of getting one. As always with little critter, pay close attention to the pictures AND the words.
This Little Critter story is perfect for children who are about to get a pet and need to learn about responsibilities.
cute!
We own a couple Little Critter books and she seems to enjoy them.
It reminded me a lot of the way Clifford stories are told: the text says one thing but the pictures show something completely different happening.It was really cute and I think older preschoolers would really enjoy this book.
Although my daughter didn't quite grasp the difference in the text from the pictures, she still really enjoyed the story and the actual pictures of what was going on.This is a cute book for anyone who has pets!
The puppy creates work, rather than help for the boy as they go throughout their day, but he seems to love him unconditionally.
The tone of the book is humorous and light-hearted as it describes how the boy perceives the puppy’s ability to help.
The little boy is an unidentified protagonist whom the readers can sympathize with as the puppy creates more work for the boy than actual help.
In the boy’s eyes, the puppy could do no wrong and the moral of the story teaches how we should love unconditionally.
Instead of listing all of the little critter books by Mercer Mayer and giving them all 5 stars, I would just like to say that these little critter books are so wonderful. Morgan loves to find the spider and grasshopper in every picture. I love that they are completely true to life. Morgan really learns reading comprehension of words vs. pictures with these books because they are from the kid point of view, so the words and pictures can be completely opposite.
Little Critter surprises his parents with a new puppy. He traded his baseball mitt for him. He is told that he can keep the puppy as long as he takes care of him. Little Critter loses the puppy when he decided to chase a cat. Little Critter teaches him how to behave, sit and play. Little Critter is very mature and responsible.
Little Critter trades a baseball mitt for a puppy, but his Mom & Dad say he has to take care of it if he wants to keep it. The book continues with his adventures with his new puppy. My favorite part is when he tries to put on the leash, and the ending. Recommended for ages 5 months+, 4 stars.
I always loved the "Little Critter" books when I was young, and this one was no different. In this story, he trades his baseball mitt for a puppy and it tells of all the mischief he and the puppy get in to together. Young readers would probably really enjoy this story.
little citter feed the puppy in the moning
Once again another good read from The Little Critter collection! I really enjoyed reading this book. It can be used to teach students responsibilites.
megan spring reading 2016, children's book, picture book, series, little critter, puppies, dogs, ownership, prek, kindergarten, first grade, cute,
My niece doesn't like it ether. Her words, "boring and just like other books," shes is 4.
This is kollins favoriote(partly because he wants a puppy) but he loves all the little critter books.
Little Critter learns the fun things he and his puppy can do but also the responsibility that comes with having a pet. A fun child-pet book
JEAR1-May
Little Critter is having fun taking care of her new puppy. It's not always easy but she is learning quite a bit about taking care of others.
a cute story with a cute idea, using the stories of his daily life to teach children.
My favorite Mercer Meyer from childhood. I loved dogs and this book was great. My parents had just about the whole collection for me and I just adored them.
Cute an enjoyable for any young child!
This is a funny book. I like it when he is trying to dry his puppy!
AR Quiz No. 7277 EN FictionAccelerated Reader Quiz Information IL: LG - BL: 1.6 - AR Pts: 0.5Accelerated Reader Quiz Type Information AR Quiz Types: RP, RV
Cute!
PB 19: This is an adorable book about a boy and his first pet. Of course the puppy is always getting into trouble but the boy still loves his dog. Also, I love the illustrations.
PB48 Little Critter is a freat little character.
A cute little story about a little critter and his puppy.
The Mayer book collection appealed to my son. I liked that it was heavy-handed with the theme/idea while still making it easily and effectively.
This is one of my favorite books by one of my favorite authors Mercer Mayer. I like this book because my mom read this series to me as a child. A great read aloud book.
