https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23602562-our-souls-at-night
Kent Haruf wrote Our Souls at Night under a death sentence.
Despite knowing his life was coming to a sooner end than it should, or perhaps because of this, he created a story about finding love in the final chapter.
An American voice like no other." And to this, I add the perfection of Our Souls at Night.
Lying down in bed together and you staying the night.
My heart is so full of admiration and affection for Kent Haruf, his stories, his characters, his dry, dusty, flat eastern Colorado.
And then there was the day when Addie Moore made a call on Louis Waters. Louis and Addie are both getting on, in their 70s, Louis having lost his wife a year back, Addie a widow for some time. Both are lonely and could do with some company. While they have known each other for a long time, they have never been close. Acquaintances more than friends. Until Addie suggests that it would be a great help, given her trouble sleeping, if Louis would consent to sleep with her, not hide-the-salami sleep
Problems ensue.Kent Haruf - 1943-2014A consistent focus in Haruf’s novels is the unconventional family, whether of elderly brothers taking in a pregnant girl, or grandparents taking care of an eight-year old.
The title refers not only to the time of day when Louis and Addie share their lives.
Robert Redford and Jane Fonda as Louis and Addie from the Netflix production - Image from VarietyIn an interview Haruf did with John Moore for The Denver Center, he talks about his use of references to his own work in the novel:
Kent Haruf: … I will tell you there is a reference to the play Benediction in this new book.
Afterward, he told the New York Times, “We’re nuts, crazy in this country about fame.
We expect writers to be something between Hollywood starlet and a village idiot.”By the time he died last November at the age of 71, he had successfully avoided either of those fates and published five quiet, beloved novels about the people of Holt, Colo., a fictional town drawn from his itinerant adolescence.
In his obituary, there was mention of a manuscript he’d completed just before dying, and now we have a chance to read that final book.
. To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post:http://www.washingtonpost.com/enterta...
I fell in love with Louis Waters and Addie Moore and how they talk into the night about their lives and pasts , their transgressions , their hopes and desires , their losses , their families and how they bring joy to each other to ease the loneliness .
I love that Haruf could even make fun of himself as readers of other of his works will appreciate .It's a beautifully told story , sad yet uplifting and even sadder that this will be the last time we hear from this elegant writer .
I will miss Louis and Addie's conversations.
My Grannie was a widow for 15 years, met Gramps at a church outing and they married about 2 months after Grannie’s 70th birthday.
Our families loved them both and I still think of them and miss them at times.Reading Kent Haruf’s last novel, “Our Souls at Night”, was different yet it recalled to mind many aspects of Grannie and Gramps’ lives together.
They have lived in the same small town for several decades and knew each other, their spouses, and their children.Addie and Louis are both lonely and they come together to talk, sharing their stories from the past, musing on the town’s people and events, and going on outings together.
With my grandmother I’d help piece her quilts together, or help her in their tiny kitchen making cookies, dough for bread, baking bread.
She would invariably send me home with a small ball of dough for my as a reminder that “love grows when you hold it in your open hands.” When they moved to Florida, I was crushed, but I still saw them several times a year.
The year my grandmother died, my father called to tell me the news and I cried.
I opened "Our Souls at Night” this last novel of Haruf’s, much the same way, with reverence for these last words.
You’d have to be stone-hearted not to respond to this beautiful little novel about late-in-life love and companionship.In a small Colorado town, widowed neighbours Addie Moore and Louis Waters, who've known each other for decades, agree to share their nights together rather than sleep alone.
This arrangement doesn’t involve sex, although gossiping neighbours assume it does; it’s more about sleeping in the same bed, talking, revealing stuff they don’t tell anyone else.
I’m talking about getting through the night.
But there are scenes that make my eyes water just thinking about them.Our Souls At Night is about living the examined life.
It is so well written and so lovely!Louis and Addy are living in Holt, Colorado.
One day 70 year old Addy approaches Louis and asks him if he will come stay with her at night to sleep with her.
Addy is having trouble sleeping.
Louis ends up going along with this.
I loved the stories that they told to each other, including their tragedies that made me cry.
I also loved Addie's curious Grandson and the dog that they got him.
I listened to the the audio version of this book.
This is a short book.
This novella by the author of Plainsong (1999) may be short, but it is large enough to contain two “souls” and enough of the small town of Holt, Colorado to bring it vividly to life.The story is a simple one.
And so begins the story of two “souls at night,” sharing their histories, their fears, and simple affection.
Their lives, however, soon become complicated, what with nosy neighbors, a visiting daughter, a small grandson, and a son who thoroughly disapproves.As we watch Addie and Louis move closer to one another, through night time conversations and day time adventures, we grow to care about their friendship and how it moves gently toward love.
A tender and touching story .....for that phase in life we might face ourselves one day. This book could be a little preparation. Simple Brilliance!
E anche dopo continua a essere bello, le reazioni bigotte del paese (Holt, sempre quello), che crede Addie e Louis amanti, mentre loro due sono ancora nella fase di avvicinamento ed esplorazione, hanno (momentaneamente) messo da parte il sesso.Per me le cose si sono guastate con l’arrivo del nipotino: l’attenzione di Haruf si sposta sul bambino, e con lui la mia di lettore, che invece voleva restare legata alla coppia di anziani.
As you’d expect from an author who knows he is dying this is a tremendously wise novel about the pursuit of everyday happiness and all the petty and ingrained obstructions such a pursuit can meet when it’s unconventional.
Some of the things he did really well – showed us how much responsibility we have as parents but also how many handicaps, because it’s virtually impossible to escape from stifling generational patterns of behaviour; showed us how similar a censorious view of unconventional relationships is to racism or homophobia and all other forms of bigoted mean-spirited social hostility; showed us how much poetry there is in the everyday if we choose to live with a little bit of courage.
I love this physical life with you.
Hearing about catastrophes and senseless killings, I want to stop and think about living each day the best that I can and appreciating the basic and happiest things in life – my family, long summer nights, the tinkling of the wind chimes outside my door, my daughter's extra kisses and "neck" hugs, the sound of my son whistling, the taste of root beer floats, my teetering stack of books, and slow dancing with my love, just to name a few of those things for which I am most grateful.
I listened to the audio version of OUR SOULS AT NIGHT by KENT HARUF and the narrator was absolutely wonderful!
His voice was so gentle and soothing!I don't think I can say anymore or anything better than Brenda......so let's just call it a "sister read".BRENDA'S REVIEW BELOW:Our Souls at Night is a simple, graceful and tender story of elderly Louis and Addie who while seeking companionship share a touching relationship, quietly at night, sharing their stories of their past, happiness, missed opportunities, mistakes and grief.
All of Brenda and my reviews can be found on our Sister Blog:http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
Haruf’s writing is like a soft breeze on a warm summer day. A simple yet superb story where 2 people - Adie and Louis - find each other in their twilight years and share their life’s passions, regrets, sorrows and desires nightly. Beautiful and bittersweet as it is Haruf's last novel, but what a message he delivers. 5 ★
Stop for a moment and take stock of the simple things in life. Talking with someone who is truly listening. Holding hands and not talking at all. Warmth and companionship. This quiet, unassuming story will make you consider the value of such things. Gold.
The excitement of meeting again the familiar, direct but warm style of Haruf’s unpretentious writing sent me soaring cloud high at first, but as the story of Addie and Louis evolved and those closer to them, those who should have shown more empathy and understanding for their situation, betrayed them for incomprehensible reasons, I became impatient and somewhat infuriated by the sheer levity with which Haruf treated these wrongdoings.This book lacks the inner light that shines in the Plainsong trilogy that is imbedded in the essential goodness of people who suspend judgment in order to help each other.
But as I approached the end, I realised it was at least as much about how the emotional impact and engagement of conversations are affected by the medium used.Situation (not Plot)Addie (70) and Louis (similar) are lonely neighbours who, at her suggestion, start spending the night together, for companionship and especially to talk.
But the wrong touch, even if not physically painful, can be more agonising than the thrill of the intimate touches we crave from those we love.“I just want to live simply and pay attention to what’s happening each day.”Touch is not a motive for Addie and Louis, but the tangibility of the world is important to them.
I like complicated over simplistic, no doubt because I make everything way too complicated :)I had a problem with the premise: I had trouble believing anyone would invite a stranger to bed instead of to coffee.
But this is realistic fiction and I just don’t find the premise realistic.The idea of committing to learn about a stranger is intriguing, maybe, say, if they sat at a table and had some coffee cups, as barriers, between them.
I know and appreciate that this book is near and dear to many, but it's just not my cup of tea.
A book like Our Souls at Night may not offer a groundbreaking plot but this bittersweet novella will leave you with a sense of tranquility and calmness.
One day, Addie approaches Louis and asks if he would spend some nights with her, to just have someone to talk at nights, to have a companion, and hence the name Our Souls at Night.
Addie and Louis start spending nights together, they share their aching past, broken relationships and the people they have loved and lost.
After reading a review from a Goodreads friend who found Our Souls At Night the perfect first audiobook for her.
I decided to listen to the audiobook myself.
It's not my first but it was a perfect one for me and an excellent choice to listen too.Our Souls at Night is a simple, graceful and tender story of elderly Louis and Addie who while seeking companionship share a touching relationship, quietly at night, sharing their stories of their past, happiness, missed opportunity, mistakes and grief.
Our Souls at Night is a beautiful novella, short and quick that will have me thinking of the beauty in it for a long time.
I would have actually given this book 5 stars had it not been for the ending, but I understand that such is life and sometimes people make choices that I wouldn't make.
He has a lot of nerve, and my jaw dropped when I read how her son Gene was keeping Addie's grandson away from her just to chase away Louis.
I thought it was very telling how Gene was mostly concerned about his inheritance and had zero problem with making his sweet little son cry with heartbreak over not being able to talk to his grandmother.
Kent Haruf wrote his final book - a short one, taking his readers with him through the ending of time, and his last capture of friendship and companionship between two elderly people who tried for one last time to enjoy the love they never had and face the loneliness that claimed their nights.
Life left good and bad memories, but they were wise enough to know what was important in the end.By closing the book I felt deprived of Kent Haruf, good writing and good stories.
Of course small towns are notorious for gossip, some who love to do nothing but criticize and make sure others, close to the couple know exactly what is going on.Loved this story, so much hope, little joys and sorrows shared, just the fact that regardless of age there can be a future, one need not just give up and live only in the past.
In the last quarter there is a little surprise, a bit of author's whimsy shall we say, but only those familiar with his other books will understand and grin.Both sincere and wonderful this last book, shorter than his others , but still imparting every day's wisdom and challenges.
This straightforward story tells of two folks in their seventies who decide they’re not going to succumb to loneliness because of social mandates.
They’re folks who admit the mistakes they’ve made.
That’s a sin.”The conflict in the book involves how others perceive Addie and Louis, especially their children.
I had seen the movie before I read the book, which was a mistake.
It was impossible not to see and hear Fonda and Redford when reading.
And while Redford made a believable Louis, Fonda is too well preserved for Addie.
This is a great little book that I highly recommend.
This is another book I would probably not have heard about without GoodReads.
It was discussed last year by the 21st Century Literature group before it was readily available in the UK.
The glowing recommendations from friends in the group stayed with me, and I was a little apprehensive that it would not match my raised expectations.
The prose is simple but luminous, and the characters are memorable, and my only regrets were that the book is so short, and that it was Haruf's last work.
Highly recommended.
Beautiful, heart-breaking story. Loved every minute of it.The audio narration is just wonderful. Sad that is it over and just wish I could start again, not knowing the story and hearing it again fresh for the first time. There is something so special about a basic, simple story.
I couldn’t help but smile while reading the conversations and interactions between Addie and Louis, both widows living alone in their senior years.
What a unique arrangement they created which aided both of them in combating nighttime loneliness that shadowed over both of their lives.
My reason for not giving this book a full 5 stars is that I was uncomfortable with Addie’s decision to bring her six-year-old grandson Jamie into their arrangement.
I loved the bond that Louis created with Jamie, but felt it went a bit too far.Overall, I loved this unique and heartwarming book and would highly recommend it!
Mr. Haruf, I will miss you. Thank you for this final gift. Your bittersweet little novella touched my soul.
The Hook - The first sentence “And then there was the day Addie Moore made a call on Louis Waters.” If my head hasn’t been in the sand, by this I mean read any review or publisher’s promotions, I know why Addie comes knocking on Louis’ door.
The Line – “Who does ever get what they want?The Sinker – This is one of the books that defy the star rating for me.
Our Souls At Night is a sparse, short story that packs a great deal of emotion into its few pages.
