https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2210088.Bellarion
Sabatini.I liked Bellarion as the naive, classically educated wanderer whose native intelligence leads to an unsuspected ability to solve problems and strategize, especially in statehood and warfare.
My problem is that the story ground to a halt because of the numerous battles and sieges recounted.
I understand it is based on real history and real people (except for Bellarion) but I feel good storytelling should have been able to communicate a lot of these events without taking me through it blow by blow.
However, it is a good story overall and with my battle skimming abilities I enjoyed it.
The novel is set in Italy so all the characters names are in Italian which for me is not as easy to keep straight.
Probably on a second read through the novel would be easier to read through.Bellarion is a young innocent who is about to make a side trip into the real world.
The story of Bellarion mixes Sabtinin themes of his negative views of monkish life, his sly political observation, and the lenghts love will drive a man.(On second read through on July 28 2013 - The names were easier to keep straight.
Bellarion, sometimes called The Fortunate, starts out as a young novice from an Italian monastery who is sent to study in Pavia, the great city of learning near Milan.
Bellarion, somewhat to his own surprise, immediately puts all his learning, trickery, and boundless cheek at her service, and in the adventures that follow, as he goes on to Milan, is adopted by its governor, and rises quickly to become one of the most cunning and powerful mercenary captains in Italy, the secret he keeps from everyone else is the fact that he is still in Valeria's service.Read the rest of my review at my blog, In Which I Read Vintage Novels
Whenever anybody talks about Rafael Sabatini's best works, Scaramouche and Captain Blood are often recommended.But Bellarion in my opinion is as good as any of them.Extra star for a hero who uses his brain rather than his brawn, the haughty princess who disdains him till the last minute.Plus the political manoeuvrings and the historical setting.What's not to love?
i have mixed feelings about this book.a long time ago i read scaramouche, another similar book by the same author which i enjoyed.
The use of contemporary allusions and references, of books Bellarion might have read, fictioanl and real, of real historical figures, makes it quite interesting.
And language is fun, and the author and his characters are witty.
(fyi in this book some allusions were made about beatrice and (view spoiler)[her 2nd husband.
I kind of agreed with the advice Beatrice was giving her husband and Bellarione.
Bellarion exemplifies the classic Sabatini hero-- gifted with staggering intelligence matched only by his confidence; a steady composure in the face of every kind of stress; a dark cynicism of the world and men; completed finally with a single, powerful dash of romantic nobility that never ceases to surprise him or those around him.
But watching Bellarion spin circles around his peers and opponents, squeak his way out of death more than once, and wrestle his way from obscurity into bombastic success is more than worth the suspensions of disbelief required.Sabatini's language is gorgeous and clever, and I didn't mind one bit having to look up words, sometimes four or more in a chapter, because of the richness in understanding a turn of phrase.
Originally published on my blog here in February 2001.By modern standards, Sabatini's prose is rather florid, but it is ideally suited to this tale of early fifteenth century Italian politics.
It was a larger than life time, with swaggering condottieri, Machiavellian plotting, and high stakes in politics and war; and Sabatini portrays it atmospherically.Bellarion, his hero, is a young man of extremely poor origins brought up in a monastery.
Sabatini's heroes do tend to succeed through use of their brains rather than through their bodies; he consistently supports the intellectual over the physical.
Another epic to the scale of Captain Blood, the Carolinian and Scaramouche in that the protagonist embroils himself into the fate of a major historical event.
Sabatini does not forget any of the many major and minor characters have their actions effect the story all the way through.
Unfortunately the least likeable is the protagonist; too perfect and unrelatable.
The villains are plentiful and show how hard it is to find one working for good instead of personal gains.
A for the sword fights, they are left for your own imagination the battles are all large scale instead of individually focused.
Oh, he usually skirts around the edge of morality, but without having his protagonist push certain limits.
So, when Bellarion killed a man in cold blood just a few short chapters in, with very little compunction, it was a good jolt out of the usual Sabatini framework.
Add in that Bellarion is on the edge of physical cowardice (although not one, of course), and you've got a hero (but never anti-hero) that stands out from the rest.
Of course, it may be the constant diet of Sabatini novels that's making this break more interesting to me; I'd be interested to know what it feels like with less Sabatini exposure.
I wasn't expecting so much from this book; well, at least not as much as I got from Rafael Sabatini's better-known stories, Captain Blood, The Sea Hawk, and Scaramouche; but after a slow start, which turned out to be a slow, sure unfolding of the splendid characters and storyline, Bellarion really took off, building with great cleverness of word and deed, until the thrilling end. I give it Five Stars, which for me means that I would I recommend the book, would read it again, and that I will purchase a hardcover copy for my bookshelf.
Gorgeously written! The beginning was a little slow but defiantly gets interesting and complicated soon. It is not a blow through kind of book and even though I have a wide vocabulary I try to have a dictionary nearby. Also, Sabatini assumes the reader knows Latin – I don’t but I am starting to learn.
Probably my favorite book by my favorite author. Sabatini is the master of the historical fiction, and this is a nicely woven tale that includes all kinds of great themes: coming of age, love, fighting, misunderstandings, early 15th Century Italy, etc. A real treat to read and re-read (if you're a big fat sap like me).
Classic Sabatini at his best. Bellarion rivals Scaramouche as my favorite. The master of historical adventure fiction who gives Dumas his greatest challenge. Eloquent, philosophical, witty, riveting. Brilliant.
Pure enjoyment. That warm feeling of satisfaction that only Sabatini creates. Adventure writing at its finest!
Wonderful historical fiction of the swashbuckling adventure type!
This might be my favorite book of all time...
Raphael Sabatini is one of my favorite authors. This was a great book.
Actually, I didn't finish the book; I did not find it appealing at all, even though I had totally enjoyed Scaramouche by the same author.
My favorite Sabatini novel....have red it at least 5 times over the years.....and went to the trouble of finding myself a copy from Abe Books....
I feel it's worth noting that the ugly and the beautiful can alike be villainous in Sabatini's novels.
And while I often find his limited/inaccurate ideas about historical gender roles and, ahem, womanly character annoying, Valeria, Beatrice, and an unnamed prostitute all come off very well in this, as interesting characters working to make their way in a society that put limitations on how they might do so.
Still.) The political machinations of Valeria and Beatrice are particularly interesting.
And as with other elements in the novel, Sabatini's use of implication is masterful.
This is an old book, first published in 1926, so it is interesting to compare it to the modern historical fiction and adventure fantasy novels I mainly read.
It was a turbulent time with many little wars between the independent cities, some backed by larger players such as France or the Holy Roman Emperor.
This is the tale of how Bellarion rose rapidly from himble beginning to become vastly wealthy prince and renowned mercenary commander, and for me it still works as a story.
However, overall this has stood the test of time fairly well.
