https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48867.The_Man_Within
Author's Note--The Man Within
This is Greene's first book.
I've read four books by Greene now and am slowly adjusting to his trademark style of cracking open the prose around or right after 100 pages.
I also admit to thinking that the main character was a bit of an idiot savant at the start, his muddled internal workings throwing me off.
But the real problem I have with this book, that keeps that five star from turning bold as brass, is that faith wins here.
Conflitos interiores fazem parte de todo e qualquer ser humano, mas a consciência crítica de Andrews é um desespero. Nunca se cala e torna-o um ser patético a juntar à sua falta de coragem e pouca inteligência .
Every once in a while I see The Man Within on my Goodreads "read" shelf sitting all but entirely on its own and I think I ought to give it more Graham Greene friends.
I read this about 20 years ago and my recollection of its minute details are quite vague, but one thing I do recall clearly is that the book itself is quite vague.
But I'll have a crack at a brief summary...There is a villain, naturally our hero in the story, who has betrayed his cohorts and is on the lamb.
(hide spoiler)]The story stays pretty linear.
You can see Greene feeling his way as a new writer.
For well over fifty years, I have loved the work of British author Graham Greene.
Up until the last few pages, I thought it was a remarkable minimalistic work, focussing on three characters: Francis Andrews, a reformed smuggler who turns in his fellows to the law; Elizabeth, a lonely young woman with whom he falls in love; and Carlyon, the smuggler, his former friend, who chases him.
there are six different people inside me.
They all urge different things.
Until then, I thought The Man Within on a par with the author's best work.
This twitching encounter establishes the compunction and the fear which color Greene's career. The meance is in the details; though I suspect Greene's characters would find a surfeit of the sinister within their own natures.
3,5In the Author’s Note to this 1971 edition of The Man Within, Graham Greene explains that after a first attempt to revise the original text for this edition, he gave up and decided to leave it exactly as it was originally.
He calls the story “embarrassingly romantic”, the style “derivative” and says he gave up the revision after concluding that by doing so, he was eliminating perhaps the only quality it had, its youth.
Yes, the story is too romantic, I would even call it melodramatic, but the great writing makes up for all that.
He was very young when he wrote it--25, I think--and you can feel it, especially in the love scenes, but heck, it's still Graham Greene, and he writes like a god.
All the elements that appear in his later, more famous books--great plot, lush description, beautifully turned sentences, themes of love and God and faith and betrayal, of struggles with the dark side of human nature, they're all here.
A young man called Andrews has ratted on his friends, a gang of smugglers.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
In fact, I kinda wish I had not known this was written by Greene at all, because all along the way through this book I kept thinking about how his style would change in his later books, how the characters would develop, how he would work out relationships between characters differently in years to come.
She is objectified by all of the characters she interacts with, not least of all by Carlyon who uses as a means to satisfy his revenge against Andrews.The other aspect the did not enjoy particularly was that Greene still struggled with conveying the characters internal conflict, the very aspect that would become a his trademark in later works.
This is the first novel that Graham Greene published (though it was actually the third one he wrote, as two previous books had been rejected!) He was only 21 when he started it and 25 when it was published.
The central character is a young man, Francis Andrews, who is brought up by his smuggler father to follow in the family business.
The joy of it is seeing Greene's voice as a writer develop, especially in some of the more nightmarish sections, like the whole passage where an extremely tired and half-hallucinating Andrews faces the court as a witness.
The story revolves around an English smuggler, who wanting to get out of the 'business', turns in his crewmates with an anonymous letter to the police.
Unlike Greene's later work, which acquired a finesse in his writing style, this story was very raw, emotional.
Andrews is an introspective person, filled with self-loathing for his life style, his cowardice, but who falls in love deeply with Elizabeth, and who wants to change for her.
I've got a number of Greene's other books still on my bookshelves and look forward to continuing my exploration with his writing.
Perhaps by the time I put my thoughts down I'll come up with it.I've read some of the major Greene works - The Power and the Glory, The Quiet American, The End of the Affair.
So can I write a fair review of this book as I would with any other novel that I picked up and read WITHOUT all the background info?I tried to suspend judgment when I realized that I was being influenced and just got down to enjoying the story.
I did like it and that only grew as I was reading.This is an INTENSE story - a lot of internal struggle.
That said, I found it deeply, deeply fascinating.
The protagonist seems to be profoundly aware of his own cowardice, which is not something I view as common.
Also, one of my favorite quotes from the book was as follows: "Surely you know by this time that the feeling won't last.
We sin, we may at first be disgusted by our sin, than we grow into apathy over said sin, God brings us to repentance, and then we come once again to apathy, this time over our cleanliness, and anxiously and eagerly search out sin once again.
The plot is straightforward, lacking the thrilling twists—and much of the suspense—of Greene’s later work: Francis Andrews, a smuggler, is motivated by personal resentments to inform on his colleagues.
The real problem, however, is that the novel is informed by an almost maudlin romanticism that damages its credibility (and would largely disappear from Greene’s later work).
Ultimately, this reduces Andrews to the overly detailed blueprint of a character.Despite its flaws, The Man Within is ultimately enjoyable, and it’s certainly worth the time of anyone who has a more than slight interest in or appreciation of Greene’s work.
Other reviews have highlighted how this novel doesn't bear comparison with later works, so it's good to judge it on its own merits.I found it entertaining, with enough of a plot to keep me engaged, but also a little rambling and overly romantic in places.
And I had little sympathy for the protagonist, who comes across as full of whiny "woe is me" self pity which got a little irritating after a while.
If so, it was slightly laboured.All in all, an interesting and enjoyable enough appetizer, but I'm hoping for more from the main course.
Kind of reassuring for those of us with weekly aspirations to know that even the well-respected Greene was a bit crap when he first started. Also exhibits a quite remarkable degree of revulsion of women, in the classic "Damned whores and god's police" mode.I had a notion I was going to read all of Greene's novels, in order. They better improve quick, our I'm never going to make it.
I should probably give The Man Within at least 3 stars. For heaven's sake, it was Greene's first novel. It shows great promise of the things to come, but parts were just,... not quite baked for me. Regardless, I'll keep reading the rest of Greene's library. It's a journey well worth the effort.
This is Greene's first novel. He had not quite found his voice--he became one of the greatest prose writers of the 20th century--but this is still compelling, with a main character whose flaws are as deftly drawn as his better qualities.
If the edition you have lacks the author's note he wrote many years later, I'm providing it here, because the note simultaneously highlights Greene's wit and his humility:THE MAN WITHIN was the first novel of mine to find a publisher.
Greene would return to the theme of father figures with criminal pasts in his final novel, THE CAPTAIN AND THE ENEMY (1988) and a similarly weird sense of an unnamed era informs much of that book.
Moreover, Greene thought of himself as an "agnostic Catholic" so, in that sense, Andrew's journey in "The Man Within" represented Greene's, in a Britain where the theocratic iceberg had just begun to melt away.
Andrews believed that the only way to genuinely redeem himself in "The Man Within" was to shoulder the blame for Elizabeth's murder.
Andrews should have done the right thing and protected Elizabeth when he was able to.
Ultimately, it is a story as old as time, “I came because I love you" said Andrews to Elizabeth.
This book is an argument against that, I think.I can't be sure, of course, as this is the first Graham Greene book that I've read.
I can't, but it is a reasonable supposition based on the author's own disavowal of the book and the less than enthusiastic responses of other readers.
I was also left with a lot to think about after the book finished, and that in itself is a sign of strong writing.I did not love this book, but I did like it.
I would not recommend this book, but it did the job of making me curious about Graham Greene's other offerings.
The Man Within is Graham Greene’s first novel, but it shows much of the promise that will be developed later to give us novels like The Quiet American and The Heart of the Matter or The End of the Affair.
The hallmark feature of the Penguin series is the insightful introductions, and we have yet another useful one by Jonathan Yardley who puts the novel in context of Greene’s career and biographical details that are mirrored in the novel.
There are many aspects of this novel that will be developed later like the tortured hero who uses religion to navigate an indifferent and hostile world.
All the hallmarks of Greene in what was his debut novel: a tortured, flawed protagonist finding redemption. Ending felt cliched but I really enjoyed this. Overly polished prose often feels just that - overly worked - but The Man Within is the opposite. Its raw, passionate prose and dialogue make it a refreshing read.
This was very slow and atmospheric. I could not tell what the situation was, why we were following these characters or what the characters had to do with one another. I got really bored, almost 100 pages in, and decided to bail.
Early work by the author has interest in pointing to his developing style. The plot is implausible and it feelstoo rooted in its period to be of more than passing interest.
One can easily imagine that the author found his first novel to be a bit cringeworthy in light of his later and more accomplished efforts, but it is possible that without this initial success he may not have written much more, so one should appreciate one's early efforts, especially one's early successes, for giving someone encouragement to write.At a bit more than 200 pages, this book is a relatively standard length for a novel by the author, although it starts slow, with a man hiding out in a cabin with a woman, without a great deal of back story about either known at the beginning.
More dramatic is not possible as is the first line, the opening screen shot, “He came over the top of the down as the last light failed and could have almost cried with relief at the sight of the wood below.” And then the writing begins to be labored, as Greene once remarked he’d like to revise the book but then thought better of it, and the play between the “reality” presented and the possibilities that are not happening is not as refined as later works.
It's his father, larger than life, smothering Andrews' self-confidence, that he is really aiming at in his betrayal.In his flight, Andrews meets the second major figure in his trial of worthiness, Elizabeth, a young woman his own age, living in an iconic small country cottage.
The climax of the story will determine the fate of both Elizabeth and Andrews, but Elizabeth's fate has already been determined by her faith, a kind of peace that Andrews, for the first time in his life, finds possible in his experience of her.As an aside, I think it's interesting to imagine the story told from Elizabeth's own perspective (like Hamlet retold in Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead).
It's interesting to read this book after having already read a handful of Greene's other works but also with the knowledge that this is the first that was published (though the third that he actually wrote).
What is apparent is the commonalities in Graham Greene's characters; it's undeniable to me after now having read 6 of his novels that each one is a small autobiography.
This is inevitable with any work of fiction, but when you have someone as prolific as Graham Greene with such obvious deep life struggles (relationships, alcohol, faith) it's impossible not to see the author himself sewn together through his works.
