https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/512991.A_Modern_Herbal
This A-Z of every herb plant that exorcist some taste but hell lot of unheard of & so very dangerous deadly poisoners the sort used in an episode of Midsummer Murders or Miss Marple..At end of the day this fantastic book & if can find a copy buy it .My H/B copy is 1975 reprint copy that I got at special interest cookery book fair in 1990s at Durham city & cost £35 far cry from its £12 in 1975.The biggest problem is that this not book to read it is book you need in your kitchen its a special reference book so Don't poison your mother in law with Monkshood or Death cap unless you want 25ys in jail.This fun book because find out everything you didn't know about mint or herbs, mosses, roots that no one heard of since Witchfinder General burnt his last Witch.
A wonderful book with a lot about history of herbs and their cultivation. Written before modern perspectives on biochemistry, but excellent as a history of British agriculture. A huge doorstop of a book, with comprehensive entries on the many names of each herb, uses for each of its parts, some cultivation notes for British herbs, notes on varieties etc, etc. indispensible.
Many entries, but most of them seemed archaic. Seemed to be focused on one particular school of herbalism (I didn't see many chinese herbals for example). Also didn't have much useful information and the information that was there was written for more advanced practioners
Still a fantastic (2 volume) sed of monographs. Should be on every herbalist's shelf.
I cannot say I have read this book, as it is more of a reference book, and something I continuously refer to. I don't think I will ever read this in its entirety as is it Enormous. In my opinion this is the best herbal available, with Shipards a close second (only second due to lesser number of herbs). Definitely recommended.
Excellent reference book, with good historical information on each herb, that is difficult to find in more modern texts.. A must have if you are a herbalist or practitioner dispensing herbal formulations.
This is a classic.
Full of pertinent information along with some dubious refrences, useful if dated text for most herbs.
THE herbal.
This is THE reference book to own if you are interested in herbs. A classic.
I've had this as a reference book for a long time now and will i think always be reading it
This book will most likely take me a lifetime to get all the way through. So I think I'll probably keep it on my list as a permanent fixture. There's so much to learn here!
