https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/301538.The_Darkness_That_Comes_Before
Most people give it 4*, 1* is the least popular rating.There are plenty of good things to say about the book.I've heard it comprises 'dense philosophy'.
I've read philosophy text-books, and the fiction of Satre, De Beauvoir, and others.
I guess it's a ton of material for the epic side of epic fantasy to play with over the course of the next however many books.
The Mandate Schoolman was the most involving character for me, then Esmenet.In short then, a book with depth, complexity, written with skill, and well worth a look.
4.5/5   “The thoughts of all men arise from the darkness. If you are the movement of your soul, and the cause of that movement precedes you, then how could you ever call your thoughts your own? How could you be anything other than a slave to the darkness that comes before?”   Jason Deem's re-imagery of the series covers.. Which I prefer to the original covers which is half a face in a circle..This novel is one of those novels that are basically impossible to review. So excuse the word vomit. Lik
Anyway I have had this series on my radar for over a year now but was abit nervous to start it due to the things I’ve heard from a few friends say in regards to how complex the system used in the story is, Bakker has basically created a whole entire vivid world, he has made his own special unique magic system, characters, names and religions.
the start was freaking boring and so slow, I thought I was going to turn 90 before it got exciting, however it did get extremely interesting and I’m so glad I continued on with the story, I actually think I loved it by the end.
Reading it is a pleasure thanks to Bakker's style; it's engrossing thanks to the characters and the story; and it's funny if you can train-spot all the historical references.
Most of the book is written in varying degrees of free indirect style, and occasionally Bakker's need to stuff information into a scene is a bit too noticeable.
The real problem here was pointed out by another reviewer: the women are all whores or shrews.
I don't mean 'in general.' I mean there are three women in the book, and they are whores or shrews.

This is a fantasy tale of epic proportions: it starts with events taken place 2,000 years ago and continues all the way to "present".
Add to this a mysterious all-powerful guy (I always envisioned him as Yoda on steroids)whose purpose was unclear even to himself, a barbarian who made Conan look like a kindergarten bully, a sorcerer spy looking for an ancient enemy everybody forgot about - the only guy smart enough to ask himself whether The Holy War would be The Second Apocalypse, a couple of broken prostitutes - and you have The Darkness That Comes Before.I finished the book - all 600+ pages of it.
I never finished this book, actually I never finished the first chapter. I couldn't read this book it was like the author grabbed a thesaurus and picked out vocabulary that would have even made Jerome Shostak have to look it up!It made me hate the author...it felt arrogant, high handed and pissed me off.*shivers*
It is rather overwhelming and requires a great effort from the reader, but in the end, the effort pays off with a truly amazing fantasy experience.It should be pointed out the majority of the novel is centered on setting the scene for the rest of the trilogy, to situate the reader in this finely imagined world.
Scott Bakker's "The Darkness That Comes Before" is any indication, what follows may be the greatest fantasy trilogy ever.Last Word:An amazing experience that will challenge for one of the greatest fantasy novels ever released.
Bakker creates an incredible world, and populates it full of characters with such reality and intellectual history as to be staggeringly fascinating.
This is my second read of Bakker's compelling dark fantasy The Darkness That Comes Before.
I recall this being one of the best dark fantasy books I'd read to that point.
I remember thinking the writing was engaging, the plot was interesting, the world building was fantastic, and that the characters were memorable.
This second time around I felt like the story was a bit easier to get into in the early stages.This is complicated multi-POV fantasy set in the brutal world of Eärwa.
All in all I loved this one and it remains one of the best dark fantasy stories I've read.
By the end of the novel, if you're like me you'll be rooting for Cnaiur to get the better of Kellhus and save the world from his madness.The setting is an interesting one: magic is a taint that manifests itself in random individuals, who are then found and trained by one of the many Schools of magic.
For the whole novel we see Kellhus wandering the earth, manipulating and charming everyone to his own inscrutable ends, with a contempt for everyone else's lack of awareness of Reality.
I will likely read the second book, though, just for the chance that someone, somewhere, will enact revenge on Kellhus for his crimes against, well, everyone.
Although it's mainly used in the perjorative, it also describes incredibly accurately the writing style, very heady, involved, and vocab intense.
This is the first time I've encountered Philosophy grad student automanipulation, and it's enthralling, especially in the fantasy genre, where various philisophical schools manifest as types of magic, religion, and rulers.
This is also an intense read.
There is a ton of information unleashed on you, it's better to just set aside some real time to read it in depth and try to assimilate all of the aspects of the world, political factions, and characters involved.
But I think this series really stands out among the crowded Epic Fantasy field for several significant reasons.World Building: While very much based on the Mediterranean world on the cusp of the First Crusade (so much so it made me want to read God's War: A New History of the Crusades again) Bakker merely uses this historical period as a starting point.
This is crucial because for as much as this series is about an epic war, the story is driven by the main characters: Khellus the Dûnyain monk, Drasas Achamian (Aka), a Mandate Schoolman who dreams of the first Apocalypse every night, Cnaiür urs Skiötha, a steppe barbarian on the hunt for vengeance, and Esmenet, Drasas former lover and a whore (plenty more on THAT later).
Complex world with complex characters.
His world, Earwa is well defined and has an exotic feel to it.
The Darkness That Comes Before lays the foundation for the main event of the series: The Holy War.Notable characters: Achamian (spy/sorceror), Cnauir (you do not wanna offend this guy), Kellhus (more than a man, moves strings of all around him like puppets) , Xerius ( crazy, insane, suspicious, witty Emperor), Conphas( Nephew to Xerius, the Lion of Kiyuth as he came to be known, when it comes to battles tactics, second to none)Proyas ( a prince, former student of Achamian.
companion to Kellhus and Cnauir)
(hide spoiler)] It’s probably the most relentlessly dour book that I have ever read, to the point where Bakker’s world starts to feel fundamentally unrealistic.
The other issue is one that’s been noted by other people already: the book has a bit of a women problem.
This problem gets compounded in a pretty ugly way when it’s revealed that the single woman with any kind of power in this universe (and therefore a good opportunity to go beyond the victim trope) turns out to routinely use her sexuality to manipulate everyone around her and (view spoiler)[to have sexually molested her son.
I am not sure where the bad rep comes from, I have read far far worse than this, I have also read far better, but for a first in the series, I think that it has set a pretty good scene for the next two books.
The characters themselves are pretty good, there is a lot of familiarity in them, I feel like I have read them before, in previous lives they might have been in First Law or Mistborn etc but overall they are developing along nicely.
Overall I am pretty happy with what I have read so far, I do feel this is a set up book and I am expecting a lot more from book two.
I've gone through some reviews and it seems to me "The Darkness That Comes Before" isn't everybody's cup of tea.
There are a lot of one-star reviews and heaps of dnf's.
I reckon this book is not a walk in the park, Bakker's prose gets a bit cryptical here and there.
Also, there are quite a few slow bits and plenty of political tangle BUT, when you finally get the hang of it, TDTCB is highly rewarding in a Malazan-ish sort of way.Aye, imho The Malazan Book of The Fallen is the closest thing to "The Prince of Nothing".
It does require a great deal of patience and fortitude because Bakker does you no favors as far as holding your hand and info-dumping you to death.
I sincerely hope that the next two books are this good because if so, I will absolutely fly through them like I did with this first installment.
Bravo Mr. Bakker, what a wondrous world you have created filled with deep characters and a history that makes you want to constantly find out more about it.
I simply adored this book and can't say enough good things about it.
I've tried to read this for three years in a row and never been able to get interested in it. Glad others enjoy it though.
“Dark and gritty fantasy” this may be, though I don’t think Bakker strays as far thematically from the high fantasy tropes and idioms of Tolkien as do many of his confrères; in fact I think he may be one of the few writers in the field who has not only made use of them, but done so in truly novel and interesting ways.This first volume in Bakker’s magnum opus, which currently consists of five books (with, as I noted above, a sixth on the horizon and, I think at least, the possibility of at least one more trilogy to fully flesh out many of the ideas and stories that Bakker is working with), is an impressive first novel, though I did notice a few infelicities on my re-read that I think ultimately show how Bakker has improved as a wordsmith.
hooray!) trilogy, and I'm sufficiently engaged that I'm wondering how it will all end.But I can't get over how the book portrays women.
There are two women in the main cast, and both are prostitutes (one is a concubine, the other is this world's version of a call girl).
They're set against a backdrop that is almost all men -- very few women are side characters, among a cast of literally thousands, and none are sympathetic.
Any one of these things I could decide not to let bother me in a book I was otherwise enjoying; all of them together is getting a bit much.
DNF @25%.
This book and series really should have been right in my wheelhouse but I honestly just couldn't bring myself to care.
There were too many names, characters, sects, religions to balance with the clunky writing style.
I've read and enjoyed Neichze.
I recently read Beyond Redemption and it was a 5* book containing a lot of philosophy and religious content.
Keep in mind I'm a huge Malazan fan and was never lost reading Garden's of the moon.
I don' t mind looking up characters and putting work in.
This book just didn't do it for me.
Epic fantasy through the prism of Nietzschian philosophy, all rendered in compelling and exquisite prose. Highly recommended.
The quotes seemed to show a writer who was lucid and intelligent, and so I was excited by the prospect of finally seeing an actual attempt to defend worldbuilding, refute Harrison, and provide some alternative view of what authors can achieve with this technique.Disappointingly, instead of addressing Harrison's thoughts and words, Bakker sidetracks into impugning his motives--though as an off-the-cuff response in an interview, I don't blame him for failing to present a complete defense (I analyze the exchange more fully in this post).
Nope, as soon as it got good, it would quickly flip back into its usual slow-paced boredom.About halfway through, I almost didn't even bother with finishing and let it sit for two or three weeks before I finally came back to it.
I mean, I really wanted to like this book - I had read so many good things about it.
But then, perhaps the other two books in the series are better and pick up the pace - at least, that's what I've read to be the case.
Patience grasshopper, patience...To those who are considering reading this book: I would recommend this read; however, you will need to be patient.
Many intricate and complex stories have been told by writers that move from the get-go.
I will say that the last 1/2 of the book was hard to put down and I am looking forward to reading the second book and continuing this tale (plus I am afraid that if I don't read the 2nd book immediately while I can, I will forget all of the names introduced by the author).
It's slow paced book that that despite being about big war doesn't actually have epic battles instead it focused logistic, intrigues, negotiations and conflicted agendas surrounding it.
It's very well crafted and very believable world with characters that aren't, to paraphrase Terry Pratchett, fundamentally good and bad but fundamentally human.
world or characters and those parts usually involve one of main characters, Achamian.
He starts as one of my favorite characters but him and his love interest soon degrade to over developed minor annoyances with parts in their chapters where you can skip dozen or so pages and lose nothing.
That is to say, I hated aspects of it and found other parts boring and/or way overblown, while other parts were quite delightful and pushing the boundaries.So...
Long stretches of PoV were from a whore.
We have a great No-God evil coming back from the deep past and an apocalypse on its way.And violence for violence's sake?
But he's only a single character in a long list of epic grimdark characters in this novel.Do I feel up for the challenge of continuing?Not really.
Too much work for the payoff at this time.
I love this one despite despite some minor flaws, and the first series is one of my favorite fantasy trilogies of all time. Will post a full review later in 2016 which will go over my detailed appreciation for the philosophy behind it, Kellhus, Cnaiür, Esmenet, Achamian, Conphas, the Schools and the Consult.
I'm calling it at 39%. I can't do it anymore. I've found myself just skimming the book after 20%, so that may be the real DNF point. I'm disappointed because this is marketed at being like Malazan, and i didn't personally feel like it was. I've seen that some people have enjoyed this, and I'm really glad they did. It's just not for me. I just wasn't able to feel invested in this book.
“—at the end of the world.””Darkness that Comes Before has been one of my favorite novels for a long time.
Bye Bye do-good heroes and stereotypes straight out of a Dragonlance novel(I read so many…) Bakker created a series that showed that fantasy can be so much more than dragons, swords, and saintly heroes.
I loved it 12 years ago and appreciate so much more now with a reread.What makes this book and series special is the intelligence, philosophy, religion, and morals portrayed within.
If you do not mind a difficult read with great payoffs and an equally great story than the Prince of Nothing series is one not to be missed.
(I'm sure he's written plenty of academic papers; he definitely has a command of English - I'm actually pretty impressed that I'm reading an unrevised proof, and there's only been one typo so far ["sneak peak" instead of "sneak peek."] Not bad.) I'm still not won over; I feel like the first third of the book needs a serious revision/edit, but my current opinion is upgraded from one to two stars.2/16 - Finished it yesterday.
I've tried both of those authors: John Marco was a did-not-finish, and Steven Erikson was a this-is-not-for-me.
