https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18688045-mr-ma-and-son
Mr Ma and his son, Ma Wei, must not only deal with the trials of running a business (especially since traditionally merchants were looked down upon by Chinese society) but also the established sinophobia in British society that infects every aspect of their dealings with their neighbours and associates.
It is in satirising the latter that Lao She succeeds - he is able to deftly caricature how the Chinese were received and treated in the UK and indeed in the West during the pre-war days, well before "China stood up".
However the prejudices and problems that they face, and indeed many early 20th century Chinese immigrants faced, make any slight problems I have seem like nothing worth mentioning.Foreigners like me who emigrate to China often have "bad China days" and bemoan our lot.
The prejudice's the Mas face are much worse, and mean that their happiness ends up being unobtainable simply down to the attitudes they face.Lao She writes very well, and I'm given to understand that the Chinese is even wittier than the English translation.
Lao was no nihilist - but maybe the crowd that confronted him in Beijing was utterly destructive, and couldn't see his work for what it was, a way of conveying a message that the Chinese did need to strive and work and maybe become a bit more like the English, become more pragmatic, future-looking and not focused on the past.
that's one way we Chinese ought to imitate the foreign devils!" [Li Tzu-jung to Ma Wei:] "No job'll come to you unless you go looking for it, but if I go job-hunting everyday, something's bound to turn up isn't it?" [Mr. Ma thinking:] "...who wants to go to the foreign devils' theaters!
This should be made recommended reading for anyone planning to move to China. The reason being that it may help to put into persepective some of the difficulties in living in such a different culture. Granted this was written about 100 years ago but many of the social aspects of a foreigner living in a foreign land still apply, especially between the West and China.
Reading this, I was struck by the perceptions of British people towards Chinese.
This was written in 1929; the U.S.'s gift of their jobs to China is decades in the future, so China is a poor country with an undistinguished military or industry.
Britons (and no doubt Americans) discriminated against Chinese and made fun of them.
At the time of this review, China is the next world power and holds the debt of our country in their hands.
The characterization of Mr Ma and his son is a bit undeveloped, nevertheless I sympathized with Ma Wei, and hated Mary and Mrs. Evans for their shallowness (Lao certainly knows how to characterize the shallow, hypocritical Briton.
A rather poor imitation of Western Literature by a Chinese author, its only reason for existence being to prove the world that Chinese can do it nonetheless. Has some original observations though.
Mais Lao She est également très critique vis-à-vis des chinois, qui, pour lui, doivent moderniser leur mode de vie et cesser de vivre dans le passé.
Derrière l’humour se cache donc un constat assez triste mais c’est aussi le portrait d’une époque de mutations profondes de la société, après le traumatisme de la guerre, les jeunes anglais aspirent à plus de liberté et les jeunes chinois rêvent d’une Chine fière et entreprenante.
Moins « exotique » que d’autres romans du même auteur puisque l'action se déroule à Londres, Messieurs Ma est néanmoins l’un des plus réussis.
Cet ouvrage fut une agréable lecture.
Témoignage d'une réalité parfois ignorée, volontairement ou non, il s'articule avec humour pour ne pas offenser les lecteurs sans pour autant manquer de faire apparaître la réalité de la situation de Monsieur Ma et son fils.Le choc des cultures - il n'y pas d'autre terme pour qualifier cette rencontre - nous fait sourire, froncer les sourcils et grincer des dents parfois, non ce n'est pas possible de réagir comme cela, c'est exagéré n'est ce pas?
Et bien non, ces réactions sont une des nombreuses réalités qui constituent notre monde.
A beautiful parallel text. The Chinese is quite simple and at times colloquial, and with the help of the English, I was able to understand every last bit of it. I'm giving 4 stars because of frequent errors in the English text (bits of sentences are repeated), indicative of insufficient proofreading. The problem does not appear to exist in the Chinese text.
Mr Ma and son is a short, semi satirical story about the Chinese immigrant experience in London during the mid 1920s. The writing is light and witty and the book is filled with caricatures of both the English and Chinese stereotypes of the time-period. Despite the characters tendencies towards exaggeration, you are able to relate to them and it makes the book a compelling read.
A glimpse into smoggy 1920s London from the point view of Chinese living there. Lao She, one of Beijing's most beloved writers, was able to draw on his own experience living in London in the same period, and produced a fairly decent novel as well as an interesting one.
KOBOBOOKSReviewed by Asian Review of Books
An interesting depiction of Sino-British relations in London.
