https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280240.Rumpelstiltskin
„Round about, round about,Lo and behold!Reel away, reel away,Straw into gold!‟„“Merrily the feast I‟ll make.Today I‟ll brew, tomorrow bake;Merrily I‟ll dance and sing,For next day will a stranger bring.Little does my lady dreamRumpelstiltskin is my name!”„
Rumpelstiltskin! Who the Hell is that guy?Is he deceitful? Manipulative? Cruel and sly?Does he entice? Does he give offers impossible to refuse?Many choices, For a price, which to choose?Inevitably, everybody will loseAnd when he calls in the debt, one will pay their due'sHe will use words, spells, to totally, BemuseAnd leave one trapped, he aims to, ConfuseIt is written in blood, you have sold your soulFor fame, wealth, reverie, and controlDoes he spin on a yarn, or gold from straw?Just a trick to e deceive all🐯👍

I'm no fan of the Rumpelstiltskin tale, and probably never will, but since it's Zelinsky I couldn't resist picking the book up. The art in this edition has a certain likeness to Renaissance paintings, which I'm sure is intentional.
Zelinsky’s writing and illustrations contribute greatly to the story’s tension as the miller’s daughter tries to save herself from being put to death by the king and then from allowing the little man to take her child.
Zelinsky makes the story extremely intense and dramatic as he puts death and child kidnapping as the main themes of the story and he brilliant makes his writing dramatic during the scenes of the miller’s daughter being threatened with death and during the threat that the little man poses to her when he tries to take her baby.
First, a very important thing!
*throws the king by the window* Ok, now it's time for the review.
I never heard about Rumpel-whatever before watching the first season of the TV show Once Upon A Time.
This picture book was an interesting adaptation, I particularly enjoyed the art that looked like old paints (Renaissance?), giving a good atmosphere, and it was perfect for things like gold.
The story was well paced and satisfying regarding the outcome and the heroine, but wow the king was an evil and greedy creature, I think I preferred Rumple.
This is a beyond gorgeous retelling of the classic Rumpelstiltskin. I really enjoyed Zelinsky’s Rapunzel so I was looking looking forward to this book, and I was not disappointed. I was practically getting lost in the detailed illustrations and the storyline that flowed beautifully with the pictures. An excellent read that I would highly recommend to anyone!
I have this book in my bookshelf because it is one of my favorite illustrated book with Paul O. Zelinksy medieval style to a fairy tale classic. I highly recommend this book if you are a fan of beautiful fairy tale artwork.
Rumpelstiltskin is one of those fairy tales that I loved reading as a child.
This was one of my favorite books not only because of the story but the lovely traditional artwork done in oil painting by the author.
This version is a combination of different versions.The story begins with a miller who meets the king on the road and tells the king his daughter can turn ordinary wheat into gold.
The story is simplistic and not everything is explained but that is customary to most fairy tales in picture books, so I can shrug off some of the plot holes I encountered.There is more then one moral in this story.
Every evening a little man saves her by magically spinning the gold and getting jewelry in return, and by morning the king is satisfied and let her live.
If she can find out his name by the next time he visits, she can keep her child.I think there's an interesting theme in this story.
He actually gave the woman a second chance to keep her baby, though he could have just taken it - he was a magical person that were able to sneak in and out of the castle unseen, not to mention spinning straw into gold.
The illustrations are amazing and remind my of Renaissance paintings.
I would use Zelinsky's version to teach the story since it is clear and well told.
I would also use his illustrations to showcase artistic skills and for art criticism lessons.
In this version, a father claims his daughter can spin straw into gold.
He leaves her with the king who will kill her is she cannot spin an entire room of straw into gold over night.
Rumpelstiltskin offers to help the first night for a necklace and the next for a ring.
The text is true to the Grimm version but kind of boring, so the paintings were crucial to give the story sparkle.
Logan, who is almost 7, has asked me many questions since about the nature of Rumplestiltskin: Was he evil?
I explained that he was more like fairies or leprechauns; not exactly evil, but out for his own gain and mischief and not too concerned about humans.
Interesting that L had no questions about the king, who was only interested in the miller's daughter for her ability to create gold and willing to threaten her with death and then 3 days later, to want to marry her.
Love the illustrations!
I read this story as a child, and I really loved it.
Zelinsky (Originally told by the Grimm Brothers)Genre: European FolktaleTheme(s): Greed, Mother’s LoveOpening line/sentence (type directly from text): “Once there was a poor miller with a beautiful daughter.”Brief Book Summary (2-3 sentences in your own words): This book is a folktale about a girl who is sent to spin straw into gold for the king.
A distinguished edition of one of Grimm's favorite tales.”Professional Recommendation/Review #2 (cut & paste, details below): Debra Briatico (Children's Literature) “In this enchanting tale, a king asks the daughter of a poor miller to spin straw into gold.
Rumpelstiltskin is the story of an old miller who tells the King that his daughter has the gift of spinning straw into gold.
As the King hears such a marvelous art, he takes the miller’s daughter into his palace and locks her in a room to spin all the straw into gold.
The King has promised to marry her if she turns the third room into gold; the little man accepts to help her for the last time if she gives him her first child when she becomes Queen.
He gives her three days to guess his name, if the Queen does not guess the little man will take the child.
In this fairy tale, a foolish miller promises the king that his daughter is able to take straw and spin it into gold, in hopes of impressing him.
The miller’s daughter complies by giving him her necklace, and the small man holds up his end of the deal and spins a room full of gold.
The story continues with the man visiting the miller’s daughter two more times, each time asking for something of value in return.
The small man who has helped her spin the gold returns, asking for her son.
Rumpelstiltskin was retold and illustrated by Paul Zelinsky.
Zelinsky used oil paints instead of water colors in a Renaissance style, which helped bring out the medieval time period of this story and gives it more details.
In this retelling, a poor miller wants to impress the king and therefore, tells him that his beautiful daughter can spin straw into gold, which is a fib.
This goes on for three nights and on the last night the girl has nothing left so Rumpelstiltskin asks for her first born child.
Category/Genre: Fairy Tale/Picture BookReading Level: 740LInterest Level: K-3Awards: Caldecott Honor 1987,ALA Notable Children's Books 1995Description: One day, on his way town, a poor miller "bumps" into the king of the land.
He decides to try to impress the king so he tells him he has a daughter that can spin straw into gold, which was a lie.
The tiny man in this story is magical.
He was able to turn straw to gold.Young readers will love listening and looking at this picture book.
They will want to find out what happens to the poor daughter who really can't spin straw into gold.
Rumpelstiltskin is a predictable picture book with a predictable story structure.
Zelinsky’s retelling of the original Rumpelstiltskin fairy tale is a 1987 Caldecott Honor book.
The reliable reappearance of Rumpelstiltskin will encourage emergent readers to take risks.
The style pairs perfectly with the medieval setting, and Zelinsky’s attention to detail and human emotion magnifies the intensity of the media.The award winning picture book can be incorporated into kindergarten through fifth grade classrooms.
Emergent readers will enjoy the repetitive story structure and illustrations while fluent readers may engage in comparing and contrasting the fairy tale to other versions.
This traditional version of Rumpelstiltskin has detailed illustrations that help you walk through the fantasy world where straw can be spun into gold by a little magical man.
A miller, wanting to impress a king, tells him that his daughter can spin straw into gold.
Rumpelstiltskin finds the miller's daughter and helps her the first night for her necklace, the second night for ring, and the third night with the promise that he would get the woman's first born child.
The king, please with how the girl spun all of the straw into gold, married her.
Rumpelstiltskin is one of Grimms’ fairy tales.
In this version of the fairy tale, a father claims his daughter can spin straw into gold.
He runs into the king who is greedy and selfish and wants to bring the daughter back to his castle so she can spin gold for him.
The king has threatened her with death if she cannot spin a whole room of straw into gold by the next morning.
Rumpelstiltskin finds her in the room and offers to help if she gives him something.
Unwilling to do this, Rumpelstiltskin offers the queen this option, if she can guess his name, she does not have to give up her child.
When the poor miller comes upon the king, wanting to impress, he tells the king of his lovely daughter who can miraculously spin straw to gold.
As the daughter looks at the piles upon piles of straw, she is distraught, wondering how she can accomplish something beyond her abilities.
Alas, a nasty looking little fellow appears and bargains for her necklace in return of his spinning the straw to gold.
As the little beady eyed fellow appears again, she barters her ring away in the hope that he can spin the mountains of straw to gold.Once again, the king demands more and more.
Paul Zelinsky retells and illustrates the famed Grimm tale of Rumpelstiltskin in this Caldecott Honor book.
Distraught, the girl makes a deal with a tiny man, offering him her jewelry, and ultimately, her first born in exchange for his ability to spin straw into gold.
Seemingly touched by the queen's devastation of losing her child, the tiny man challenges her to guess his name in order to keep her child.
When hope is almost lost, the queen's most trusted servant comes upon the tiny man boasting and singing of his crime and name.
With older students, this fairy tale could provide several outlets for discussing character traits, consequences, and the portrayal of gender.
His finely-detailed paintings capture the mood and marvel of this suspenseful story, in which a vulnerable young woman is three times required to accomplish the impossible task of spinning straw into gold, and she promises her firstborn to the gnome who offers to complete the task for her.
When she has been made queen because of this feat he comes to collect his payment, and she must solve his impossible riddle to save her child.The fine illustrations carry most of the story -- the vast countryside in which the miller meets the king emphasizes the strange chance which brings her to the castle as well as the impulsive greed of the king.
A girl was threatened from the king to be death if she did not make gold from straw.
When the girl had nothing to give him in return, he asked her to give him her first baby born.
Then Rumpelstiltskin asked her if she can guess his real name in three days then she could have her baby back.
This was the way that the girl got her baby back.
Rumpelstiltskin was not happy about it and flew away on his cooking spoon.This picture book focused its story on the traditional legend of Rumpelstiltskin tale.
This story is about girl whose father had promised the king she could spin straw into gold.
The king locked her in a room with straw and told her, "If you turn this straw into gold, you can keep your life." The girl didn't know what to do.
The king kept wanting her to spin more and more straw into gold and the girl kept making deals with the little man.
For spinning a room full of straw the girl agreed to give the man her first born child.
The little man said if she could guess his name she could keep the child.
The story begins with a greedy miller who sees the king riding through the countryside and wanting to impress the king, he boasts that his daughter can spin straw into gold.
The miller's daughter does not know what to do until a little man, who goes by the name Rumpelstiltskin, appears and offers her help for a gift in return.
With the help of a messenger she discovers his name and is able to keep her child.I liked this book as I think it has an interesting story-line with plenty of twists throughout.
Rumpelstiltskin Retold & Illustrated by Paul ZelinskyGrade level: K-2Genre: Folk TaleTheme: Success This version of Rumpelstiltskin is derived from the original version written by the Grimm Brothers from Germany.
In this story, a poor miller meets a king and volunteers his daughter to work for a king.
Her job is to spin straw into gold.
Twice, the king told her she must produce the gold by night or she would die.
The only problem is she doesn’t know how to spin straw into gold.
I would use this book to assess comprehension and how well students can recall the events of the story.
Perhaps because of the realistic, painterly illustrations, the students experienced some confusion about the extent to which the story really did take place in the world they knew, just in a different time and place.
One boy seemed determined to take "spin straw into gold" as a figure of speech until the little man actually appeared, perhaps because he knew the phrase from the story but not the story itself.
The little details like the fire at the end of the path travelled by the maid to find Rumpelstiltskin's camp make all the difference, and Zelinski's illustrations give kids more than enough to search for.
