https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138398.The_Walking_Dead_Vol_1
This is so, so, so, so good. It doesn’t try to be disgusting and it doesn’t mainly focus on the zombies, surprisingly. It’s more about the little community of survivors and their relationships, their helping each other out, their trying to find a way out of this pit of death. I felt desolate to see some characters gone too soon or left behind, but I have some hope of seeing new ones in the future that will make me stop missing the departed ones.Great, great comic series.
This review contains *spoilers* for both the tv show (season 1 &2) and the graphic novel.I absolutely loved the first two seasons of The Walking Dead, so I decided why not give the comic books a chance. And I was not disappointed. This volume brought back so many memories of the show for me and reminded me of just how much I loved it— even with the jump scares.  But The Walking Dead doesn’t only focus on the gore of killing zombies, it also explores how people deal with extreme situations a
This review contains *spoilers* for both the tv show (season 1 &2) and the graphic novel.I absolutely loved the first two seasons of The Walking Dead, so I decided why not give the comic books a chance.
But The Walking Dead doesn’t only focus on the gore of killing zombies, it also explores how people deal with extreme situations and how these events CHANGE them.It was certainly interesting looking back at how Rick started on his journey and how much he has changed and matured since.
If you're interested in buying The Walking Dead, Vol. 1, just click on the image below to go through my link.
Waffles with strawberries and whipped cream...yum.But she's 6, and none of it tasted like Mommy's food.On day 3, I spied their stash of Froot Loops.Yes!
(hide spoiler)]I've never seen the show (Yes. Really.), so I don't know how this compares to it.Seemed like a fine start for a story about the zombie apocalypse, though.
So.The real moral of the story is that you need to teach your kids how to handle guns.
4.0 stars. You can see by the ratings and the other reviews of this book that a lot of people think very highly of this series and it is certainly justified. This is the kind of excellence in both writing and art that make the graphic novel an incredibly power medium when it is done well. Here….it is done very well indeed. The writing and the art are superb and I don’t think you could ask for better.Basically, the set up is very familiar. It is a zombie apocalypse, society has broken down and t
Therefore, rather then do a detailed plot synopsis which others have done very well, I thought I would mention 3 things (beyond the aforementioned writing and art) that I really thought set this series apart from your typical zombie/undead apocalypse story.
The character development is excellent and the emotional resonance is stronger than you typically see in this kind of story.
For example, there is a scene early on when Rick is leaving the hospital and there is a female zombie that has here lower body crushed and basically can’t move (I haven’t seen the TV show…yet…but I think this is the woman from the show): 
It's like he wanted to have dead time where not much was happening, but then got bored with it and just rushed us on to the next zombie scene where we can be thrilled by Tony Moore's grisly art - mundane chores don't sell stories, but violence does.Moore's art is pretty good, especially the zombies.
The days won't be same anymore! This is the first volume of the softcover editions of "The Walking Dead", collecting the comic book issues from #1 to #6.Creative Team:Writer: Robert KirkmanIllustrators: Tony Moore Additional gray tones to inking: Tony Moore Chapter One DAYS GONE BYE  Rick... Officer Rick Grimes at your service. This chapter is the epic beginning of the mega popular franchise of The Walking Dead that first was comic books, then expanded to a TV series and now there are even pros
As additional info, Tony Moore remained in the creative team for a while doing the covers of the first twenty-four issues and the covers of the first four regular TPBs.A good thing about The Walking Dead, if you want to enjoy it in comic books along with TV series is that both storylines are different, sure there will be connecting points here and there, and you will meet the same names of characters (in some cases) but they aren’t the same persons, and trust me, while this is my first compendium in the comic book’s storyline, I have been watching the TV series since its own beginning, and both stories are different, both truly great, but different, so don’t afraid of spoilers in any of both formats, since the events are developed quite different.
Whether you’re a comic book fan or a television buff, one thing remains certain: Rick Grimes is a badass.
When other members of the fledgling group are panicking and running around like headless chickens, he acts.
He realised very early on how bad things were going to get, and he knew how to respond.
Everyone else is still clutching to old world ideas; they are trying to live in the past and use the same set of customs.
I think because of it Rick has to up his game.
I think I’m going to really enjoy reading through these; it will be interesting to see how it compares to the television show.
No wife and no best friend-partner watching over him; no nurse or anyone answers his call, and then he finds some of them and realizes the world is not the same.
THE WALKING DEAD comic graphic novel was a quick way to introduce me to the story that family and friends have recommended to me for years....and now I'm hooked too!
Confession....I've spent the last nine days binge watching all eight seasons of the AMC series and have found a very addictive character-driven story of survival.
Ohhhhhhhhhh Yeah- I'm hooked!
I have to believe that readers of dystopian fiction or apocalyptic fiction harbour the belief that the world bound by the printer’s ink is definitely looming; would one day come true.
The nature of the media of course requires it to be more graphic, but in the graphic novels the zombies are relegated further into the background and the characters are pulled more into prominence.
So, the apocalyptic world of Kirkman still harbours some prejudices, but it still makes for a great read.
At my snail pace too, I might end up years ahead of the series within a month!
Okay, is this where the random bolding phenomenon is coming from??
sounds like a good idea to give a kid a gun.
And if you think that, you’re an idiot.My dad used to keep a lot of guns in the house at one particularly precarious point in my childhood, and the parents would leave my brother and I alone for the day while they went to work.
Also, I like the sounds the zombies make.
They say, “Gak” and “Iligh” and other non-zombie-sounding noises.
(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]I don't know if that's a spoiler or not, but the zombies do make funny zombie noises.
We are amidst a Zombie phenomena, well they have been around since that movie Night of the Living Dead, But did not have as much coverage, there is so many novels and movies now with a zombie theme.Some neat artwork here representing a zombie gore feast of a struggle for a band of humans against the odds for survival.This is as most people know the genisis of the tv-series of the same name. I have watched one episode with some reservations due to the gore level and wanted to read the graphic no
We are amidst a Zombie phenomena, well they have been around since that movie Night of the Living Dead, But did not have as much coverage, there is so many novels and movies now with a zombie theme.Some neat artwork here representing a zombie gore feast of a struggle for a band of humans against the odds for survival.This is as most people know the genisis of the tv-series of the same name.
I must say I am hooked now, as there is a real good story here, I love the band of survivors, especially the brave son and i just want to be there on the road with them.
I really liked this! I've watched a few of the first episodes on TV, and honestly I liked this so much more. Maybe it's because I'm a baby and I don't think the zombies look as scary as in the show? Maybe that's part of the reason. But this was really good!
"It's not the same as killing the dead ones, Daddy.""It never should be, son.It never should be."  I'm so glad I finally decided to read the comic! It was so powerful to have more depth and more layers to the story, and the comic form is as addictive as the series. It is basically the same story in both but it still gave me the feels. I felt peace, hope and calm  I felt pain, sorrow and grief  I felt hatred, heartbreak and disappointment It is so weird to see the character so unaware of what wi
It was so powerful to have more depth and more layers to the story, and the comic form is as addictive as the series.
I felt peace, hope and calm
I would definitely recommend this book even though you have seen the series, and to my opinion there is no "right way" to start.
Series first or comics first, I think that both are possible and they both add up to each other.(view spoiler)[It missed some Daryl, Merle and T Dog vibe, though And I liked the fact that we witnessed Carol distress with her husband in the series.
That has to do with laughs though.So investing this much time in zombie apocalypse was a big leap for me and I did enjoy the comic series on the first read-through.
But watching the series afterwards I was struck by the differences in character and the stories.
The Governor was just not scary.So here I am a couple of years later and I'm going to reread the comic series.It's interesting to note that like 28 Day Later the story starts with a complete ripoff of Triffids.
The main character has been in hospital and wakes up to the apocalypse.
So recently I find myself in this comic book superhero movie TV graphic novel Marvel DC Universe X-Men Apocalypse Star Wars phase and I ran across this bad boy while browsing the deep dark depths of the interwebs.
They were really well done and added an extra creepy element to the story like when The Mist released a black and white version of the movie and it made it feel a whole lot different than the boring regular old color version.
The story was also really cool and reminded me why I started watching the TV show in the first place.
There is no way to un-remember the visual medium and any first impressions, so it’s all spilt milk.But it is every goodreader’s sworn duty, if you’ve enjoyed the show, to read the books...
The TV show does take some artistic license, but for the most part it’s for the best, especially the Shane arc, which is just a bit awkwardly handled in the book.All in all, it isn’t mind-blowing, and I probably wouldn’t have read it if it wasn’t for the show.
But it’s interesting enough that I will continue to read the series, at least as long as I’m watching the show.
I think some of the pleasure of reading this graphic novel was taken away from watching the first two seasons of the TV series.
Then again, some instances of the graphic novel were better than the series so I don't feel I'm biased towards one or the other.Anyway, this tale focuses upon a police officer (Rick Grimes) who gets shot, goes into a coma at the hospital and awakens to discover a zombie apocalypse.
Rick's fears are demonstrated visually far better in the graphic novels than the series though I suspect too much fear would have turned the TV masses off.
A completely inappropriate birthday gift for someone with necrofobia - or pseudonecrofobia - or hemi-necrofobia - or pauci-animafobia.Well written.
Vividly, horrifically, (in my opinion poorly) illustrated with images that stalk and haunt my waking dreams.I vote - NO.I have tried to destroy, give away and recycle this book but it keeps showing up on my shelf.
It will not die.
I store a copy of the Zombie Survival Guide next to it and it seems to keep it at bay.
It does a good job of obscuring the cover which keeps the zombie on the cover from watching my every move.
Wow. I probably won't review all of these, but I really enjoyed this one. Shane was cuckoo crazy, Lori is still as annoying as she is on the tv show. No Daryl, but he wasn't in the books. Looking forward to more!
I know I'm late getting on this bandwagon...4 stars. Good start to the story.
The character development, surviving without much sleep, always around the same people, the lingering grief that comes with losing everything, everyone, and your past life, how the breakdown of society and everything we know can effect people differently, this was the focus of most of this volume.
The survival and how to move on with life as we know it when everything else has gone to crap.It was a very good read and Kirkman brought a great in your face realism to it, and the black and white artwork was a great touch and throwback to old zombie flicks.
I don't watch the TV show but I really enjoyed this comic. It was interesting and I liked how it focused on people and what would happen to people if there was a zombie apocalypse. I loved the introduction. I really liked the work Tony Moore did too. The comic has left me wanting more and I can't wait to see what happens in the rest of the comics.
The Walking Dead feels like every zombie story ever plus some scenes are lifted wholesale from specific zombie movies.
Kirkman’s approach to the writing of this series is akin to classic horror from the 90s and beyond, incorporating schlocky horror movie jump scares, and artist Tony Moore’s preference for wide panels adds to the cinematic flavour of the comic.
Parts of the book were exciting and enjoyable to read and I’m going to pick up Volume 2.
It’s a decent start to the series but not an amazing comic by a long shot.
I've been watching The Walking Dead for years on AMC (though I'm not up to date on the latest season), but this was my first time picking up the graphic novel series that inspired it.
I've been told by so many people that the graphic novels are incredible, so I finally decided to see what the hype was about.
I LOVED this graphic novel.
There are a few differences from the show, as I assumed there would be, but without spoiling anything, I'll just say that the ending of this graphic novel was so different and unexpected that it made my jaw drop.
So far it's really interesting to see how DRASTICALLY different the TV show is... I mean, SHANE. WHAT.
I LOVE the artwork, and though this is black and white only (not sure if other editions are color - I have the compendium and am just reviewing the individual volumes as I go) I think that the artwork is really effective.
Almost more effective for being just black and white - it adds a bleakness that I think really works.
I'm hoping that, since there are so many volumes in the series, this will start to ease up and feel more natural as the series progresses.
But still, a very promising start and I am definitely looking forward to reading more of these!
I loved how well the characters were drawn, it was really easy to tell them all apart - which is a good thing because there are a lot of characters!
In the intro to my edition the author makes it perfectly clear that his aim is to focus on the development of these characters rather than a traditional zombie plot - which he definitely does - the characters were fantastic!
Even tho the black and white is pretty good, I would have loved to see this in colour, but other than that there isn't much I didn't like about it, I want to pick up volume 2 asap!
well i hate it's in white&dark not colours and i hate Daryl isn't in the comics but still the story is really magnificent it's not focusing only on zombies but it focus more on human react in this disaster and how they change and telling us to not give up and keep surviving after all xDreally enjoyed it :) xD
Im a fan of the tv show and thought id give this a go. Didnt realise is was black and white. Story was pretty similar to the show. Graphic, and gory. I think I would have loved it more if it was in colour. Will defintely continue.
