https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59824.True_Betrayals
A new book friend told me this is her favourite NR novel and I am happy to say it's on the favourites list for me too.Kelsey Byden went to pick up her mail and was expecting divorce papers but instead finds a letter from her mother...who she thought was dead.
As she learns more about Naomi and the past she finds herself loving the mother that abandoned her.
Gabe also has a troubled past so she finds in him understanding and love.
I enjoyed how Naomi and Kelsey started to become mother and in daughter - and their shared passion of horses.
Actually, the first time I read it, I thought it was good, but didn't love it.
But for whatever reason, the story stuck in my head and I found myself wanting to read it again.
And it became one of my favorites.The book has a little bit of everything, which is perhaps why I like it so much.
It's well-thought-out and engaging, the characters are interesting...I'm just never bored while reading this book.
That kind of annoyed me, but otherwise, I love everything about True Betrayals
This is exactly why I love Nora Roberts books!! Awesome read!!
La ambientación del mundo de las carreras de caballos está muy lograda y, a pesar, que que el malo malisimo de la historia ha estado muy claro desde el principio me ha sabido mantener atrapada en la historia.Estamos ante una autora de las más consagradas, de la que tan solo he leído dos libros, y los dos me han gustado.
Pero no sé, no sé si es porque la temática contemporánea no consigue realmente emocionarme, pero sus libros no consiguen "encantarme".
Son buenos, pero no logra emocionarme con sus historias de amor.
Y lo que busco es algo tan terriblemente difícil como que provoquen sentimientos.
El concepto de los círculos y como las cosas que uno hace vuelven y te golpean en la espalda es un tema frecuente en los libros de Nora Roberts, es parte de la historia ver como las últimas personas sobre las que recae el pasado luchan por no hundirse en él mientras descubren sus sentimientos el uno hacia el otro.Muy buenos personajes: Kelsey es una mujer fuerte y testaruda, pero en el buen sentido, es lo que la motiva a tomar decisiones por si misma y no ceder a los deseos de su familia.
Dit is de dag waarop ze haar man verloor en een moeder had gewonnen, zo gaat het door Kelsey's hoofd.Overstuur rijdt ze meteen naar Three Willows waar haar moeder op een stoeterij woont waarvan ze eigenaresse is.Een prachtige cover die aan de achterkant doorloopt laat een smeedijzeren poort met hoefijzers op witte stenen toegangspalen zien in een bloemrijke omgeving.
Dat geeft de sfeer goed weer van de vruchtbare omgeving waar dit verhaal zich afspeelt.Kelsey besluit een tijdje bij haar moeder te gaan wonen om haar te leren kennen.
Niet alleen bij haar is dat het geval, maar ook bij een aantal andere personages in dit verhaal.
Same old lust-at-first-sight and sex scenes that are just moved from book to book automatically. Nora Roberts is a better writer than she thinks she is. Though the surface plot is obvious, the issues and subplots are really good, sometimes thought-provoking. The use of horseracing as a background made for interesting settings and descriptions. I wish she would ditch the hash and write a novel worthy of herself.
A goal she’s finally found.But as Kelsey gets accustomed to her new life, her true purpose, and the possibility of a long-term relationship with her mother’s charming neighbor, Gabriel Slater, a ghost from the past is slowly rising, determined to ruin all Naomi, Kelsey, and Gabe have accomplished.My “experience” with Nora Roberts’s early books is hit-and-miss, unfortunately.
I enjoy all Nora Roberts books. They are easy to read.
Love Nora Roberts.
Ao conhecer a mãe que, “morreu” para a proteger da inevitável vergonha de ter uma mãe assassina, acaba conhecendo o mundo do qual a afastaram, mas que aos poucos vai descobrindo ser o seu mundo.
Gabe é o homem com uma história de vida improvável, com um pai que não o deveria ser, pois que até então só “viveu” para o maltratar e prejudicar.
Oriundos de dois mundos totalmente antagónicos, os dois irão lutar pela justiça e pelo amor.“…Talvez fosse o seu conto de fadas, pensou.
Se aquele era o seu conto de fadas, ia fazer tudo para que o bem trinfasse.
But baddie gets their due in the end.Gage is a gambler who won big in a card game and not has a Virginia horse farm that is now producing winners.
A lot of people are not happy about Gabe's good fortune.
While Naomi's family was racing royalty, Kelsey's father and Grandmother were blue blood to the last drop.
When she tells her family, father, stepmother, grandmother, that she is going to spend time with Naomi, well, you would have thought the world had come to an end.
As Naomi and Kelsey grow closer, Kelsey discovers that she has a deep love for the farm, horses, racing and Gabe.
In almost Nora Robert's books I often learn something new.
It doesn't bored me even when I don't know anything about horses.
And it gives me new knowledge for sure.About the plot, it's good enough that it keeps me from putting down the book, but not much surprise here.
I can pinpoint that the grandmother is the person behind the trouble halfway through the book.
The heroine, Kelsey Byden, is strong enough but still need Gabe to lean to.
Many Robert's heroine is too strong for my taste that made the hero's part seems unimportant and useless.
I picked it up for several reasons: 1.
It had been a while since I read a good horse book.
All of these reasons turned out to be good ones.
I found myself continuing to read on not only for the mystery, although it was compelling, but because I wanted to continue to watch the progression in the relationship between Kelsey (daughter) and Naomi (mother).
Coupled with my investment in the horses and the budding romance between Kelsey and the neighboring horse barn owner, I fell in love with the book and all of its subplots.

Really enjoyed it. Had a good time imagining the book acted out as I read it.
3.5 stars
A powerful story with a heartbreaking climax. Beautiful ending, though :)
A good storyline... lies, deceit, and misconceptions. And a nice romance thrown in. Love it!
this story had horses. And romance. And redemption. Enjoyed it.

I have always found it hard to read about either animals or children dying.
I loved the scenes around the horses and racing, but fear for both the horse and rider had me skimming rather than reading in too many places.
I have a horse I have been training for five years, and all I can say about the training of these race horses in the book is that I dearly wish it was that easy.
The book gets you thinking about the impossibility of "do-overs" but gives you a powerful wish that they weren't and also about how life can be manipulated by unscrupulous people and how different things might have been if they had been taken out of the picture earlier on.
So, I have been curious on reading something from Nora Roberts since I have seen her books everywhere while growing up.
I always figured they were they kind of books that old ladies read on the bus...
My only problem with this book was the pacing, since it seemed to move too fast at times and it would seem like it is all over the place.
Other than that, I enjoyed the book and it was a simple summer read.
While I liked the premise of this book, I found it easy to figure out who was the main orchestrator of the whole problem.
Don't get me wrong, I'm a huge Nora fan, and I still enjoyed this book.
It just lost a little bit for me when I knew early on who did it and further when there was a part when the heroine saw one of the villains leaving a scene and still didn't put two and two together which made her seem a bit stupid.
I will say there was one character whom I had no idea had a part of the "betrayal" so that was refreshing.
When I started reading this, I was like another Nora Roberts , I’m a bit bored of her novels, but then I got drawn into the story and I really enjoyed it!I think it’s because it wasn’t just about the romance, it was a complicated story of loss, failed dreams and revenge. The romance was incidental and actually went quite smoothly, a good novel set in the world of horse racing!By the way, I always think it’s funny that Roberts has her main man smoking, I guess it was cool in the 80’s and 90’s!!!
Kelsey's life is in an upheaval. She has just received her divorce papers (the marriage ended when she found her was cheating on her when she tried to surprise him at his hotel) and she has just received a letter from her supposedly dead mother. When she confronts her father she learns her mother was sent to prison for murder. Kelsey decides that she should at least meet the woman. The story is set around a horse farm and involves family secrets. A thoroughly great read.
I can't hate any Nora Roberts book. This was a romance, true, but with enough suspense to keep you guessing. And it WILL keep you guessing. I would recommend this book to anyone that loves a good story.
I loved this book. I thought the whole horse farm and racing aspect was very realistic. I’m a racing geek so I was hooked from the beginning.
One of my very favorite Nora books...I just can't get enough.
Early NR set in thoroughbred racing horse country. Wicked betrayals, wicked family members, lot of horse racing. I enjoyed this. The villain was OTT, though.
