https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/211724.The_Mystical_Qabalah
Forget the Qabalah you hear about from Hollywood and Madonna. This is an excellent book devoting a chapter to each of the sephiroth on the Tree of Life. Philosophically interesting regardless of your beliefs.

My favorite basic book on the 17th century Kabbalistic tree of Life. Good explanation of how the sephiroth and paths work together. Great primer for building the proper correspondences to each part of otz chiim, which then leads to the phenomenological understanding of the inner workings of the tree. I've read this one several times, riveted all the more with every read as the concepts resonate and form a whole infrastructure.
I am always "currently reading" this book as it is not the kind of book that one can "finish".
difficult to stay focused but very interesting
A clear explanation of the philosophical structure of the Hermetic Kabbalah, filled with easily-understandable but profound analogies and metaphors to point the way towards true understanding.Dion Fortune, being a magician and psychic in the early 20th Century, clothed her discourse with much discussion of the practicum of magic. My interest being primarily to use the Kabbalah as a vehicle to aid thought, I skipped through all the discussion of invocations and ether and psychic emanations.What is left remains immensely valuable. I think I finally have an idea of what the Tree is all about.Highly recommended!
I love Dion Fortune but I found this book quite difficult to fully absorb and understand. Perhaps it is a life's work to understand it and I have been told this is one of the most staight forward and simple books on the subject. It is something to which I shall return, I am sure, but it is certainly not an 'easy' read, I think!!
Very clear introduction to the Qabalah - for NON-Jewish mystics. It is important to note that the Qabalah is used differently in a lot of non-Jewish mysticism than it is in Jewish circles. Very good book. Focuses primarily on the Sephiroth rather than the paths. Fantastic introduction to the topic.
So far, the best, most concise book on Qabalah.
The Qabalah is a very complex system, and one can spend liftimes studying it. This is the best introduction to what can seem overwhelming at the start.
Not for me
Reading The MQ showed not only how much the symbolism of the Tree is present in my favorite game (and also favorite story), but in so many other narratives, as well.One of the major points Fortune brings us to is that though they are named Holy and Unholy Sephiroth which would suggest two trees, in reality there is but the Holy Tree and its shadow.
Once I played it and knew the origin of the name Sephiroth, I couldn't purchase this fast enough, but at the time, the esoteric symbolism was beyond me.
This book was my very first book that I have read on the mystical Qabalah, and the very first book I have read by Dion Fortune.
I think I will keep this book for future reference and reread it.
To be honest, some sections of the book I had to reread and take some time to think about it because it was beyond my understanding.
Take a look at it if you are interested in tarot, the mystical Qabalah, occultism or if you like Dion Fortune's work!
I will definitely look into more of her books in the future.
333)I got really into this book, but at about halfway, it disappeared.
I read other things, and then finally decided to order another copy.
I wasn't able to get into it the way I had before.
At any rate, I wasn't nearly as receptive as I had been a few years ago.
Reading mostly in transit, the completion of the book took an inordinate amount of time, so a rhythm was never established.
Fortune beats not around the proverbial bush, and attempts to lay the concepts out as clearly as possible.
A second attempt with more focus is needed, but for now other texts await.
Contudo, ainda que utilizada como referência por iniciantes e mesmo neófitos nas artes dos mistérios por muitas escolas iniciáticas, "A Cabala Mística" aponta considerações confusas, ora atribuídas à análise psicológica, ora a tradições que não foram explicadas anteriormente, além de se encontrar uma certa discrepância entre algumas considerações da autora e de cabalistas mais ortodoxos, o que revela o viés opinativo e em alguns momentos pouco técnico do livro.
Neste caso, torna-se conveniente buscar referências como Arieh Kaplan, Knorr Von Rosenroth, Frater Achad, Helena Blavatsky e Aleister Crowley e sintetizá-las à luz de uma avaliação mais aprofundada.
Dense, comprehensive analysis of the Western Qaballah's ten sephiroth and the Tree of Life.
Nothing is left under-analysed, every new age sin is here committed, frequently for the first time (physicists just catching up to Theosophists?
Check.
Freud as dimly grasping the truths of the ancient priesthoods?
Check...) and the tired early twentieth century trope of race-as-destiny rolls round yet again (if only this had been its last hurrah).
And yet.There's nothing *fuzzy* about Dion Fortune.
When her presentation of this system (and it is a system) works, it works hard.
Like Ezra Pound in modernist poetry, Fortune has to be taken account of.
Well you could read it in a day but not really understand it, nor absorb any deeper meaning.It is a book about the Tree of Life but not the more mundane Kabalah but rather a higher plane perspective.If read as an intellectual exercise it would provide one lesson.
If studied and each item meditated upon it would take a long time and in some cases it would be beneficial to have a lot of background or a guide.My actual rating is 4.5 stars because some of the ideas and terminology is a little dated and assigning Mars to Water as a primary indicator (in one place) is incorrect.
This is a very thorough survey and guided tour through the Qabalistic Tree of Life as practiced by occultists of the Golden Dawn variety.
Be warned that, although the principles of metaphysics that this book point to are eternal and do not change over time, the author's analogies are quite outdated, making her sound too much like an Edwardian-era British schoolmarm (which may be to one's liking, but in the realm of metaphysics, it becomes a bit off-putting to me.) As a guide for the student of mysticism, the book is indispensable.
Finally finished!
I don't think this was the best book to pick for a complete novice to this system.While it is certainly very thorough, it is just so heavy.
But then, maybe that just goes with the territory.By the end of the book, I must admit I was a little lost and unsure of exactly how to put this system to use, in both tarot and my magick.This doesn't reflect so much on the quality of this book,but just my understanding of it.This is one I will probably come back to after reading some lighter texts on the subject.
A perfect compliment to "The Essence of Kabbalah", a smaller volume that includes almost daily devotionals of the Kabbalistic belief system. This book, on the other hand, delves deeper into the meanings and practical uses of the kabbalistic Tree of Life and its sefirophs. Sometimes difficult (in a good way) to wrap your mind around the philosphies and ideas pertaining to this belief system, it turns out to be exactly what I've been looking for in my quest to understand this mystical system. (It is a system, after all, not a "religion".)
I can't wait to read her other books.
Not that I'd know what a true adept reads like, but Fortune reads like one.
This book has the feeling of an Eastern book, but not in a fabricated way, but holistically.
There are some sentences or ideas that are a bit dated, but for the most part, id recommend this as an introduction to the (at least magical) qabbalistic system.
It does get a bit repetitive, but only to induce several mantras that end up being really effective when used.
This system goes mostly off of the Liber 777 correspondences, so I'd recommend this to any Thelemite.
On the one hand, this is *The* definitive work on Qabalah or at least the Christianized version adapted for European Occultism. On the other hand, it should be noted that it is very long, often boring, and at times quite racist and homophobic (though I'm sure it was scandalously progressive for the 1930's) and it should be noted that it is markedly different than the older Hebrew Qabalah in a few small but rather important aspects. On the plus side again it was one of those works that gave me many ah-ha moments and insights into human nature.
I read this book many years ago when I was first being introduced to Qabalah. There seemed just enough detail to make it interesting (on re-reading it, actually there is a whole lot more that I didn't grasp at first), but not enough to confuse me, and the writing style is clear and concise. It amalgamated my lessons, brought them into perspective, really helped me to understand and whetted my appetite for more. I would recommend this to anyone getting into these teachings as a sound basis.
I revere this book, because it is-- as others already say-- a masterpiece of clarity among its peers. It has proved utterly invaluable to me in my early studies of occultism; I now have a wealth of starter knowledge on the Sephiroth, and how to get at subjective pathworking. Also, my understanding of practices I've been engaged in for years-- tarot, astrology, etc-- have been profoundly enriched. I cannot over-emphasize the power this book instills in the mind.
I am certain I will return to this book and refer to it frequently. Dion Fortune's classic work on the Qaballah presents this system and schematic in a clear an logical manner. How I wish she had completed her work on the paths. After reading this book I now understand that this is a map, a memory palace and a structure. By the way, the cover artists sells lovely posters reproducing her work in greater detail, and I found that it helped me to refer to it as I read.
The Mystical Qabalah espouses a very practical approach to the Kabbalah. This really works for me. Dion Fortune keeps the information in a nice concise format. When I need even more detail I usually go to A Practical Guide to Qabalistic Symbolismby Gareth Knight. I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to delve deeper into the Kabbalah without being overwhelmed.
A classic.Dion Fortune gives a thorough and inspiring run down of the Tree of Life and its qabalistic correspondences. The spiritual facts she presents are detailed and correct, no myths here.This is a book you can read a few times and still enjoy it. It also serves as a reference book in case you need to quickly look up a qabalistic detail.- The Spiritualist, www.thespiritualist.net
The Mystical Qabalah is far and away the best introduction to the esoteric tradition of the Kaballah available. The only exception I take is to the section on Yesod that needs updating due to out of date scientific analogies. This is a supreme reference to the West's body of mystical heritage that makes other books in the field look decidedly substandard.
Dense as heck, but thoughtful and sensible, as is most of Dion Fortune's writings. It's a very different take from Daniel Matt's "The Meaning of Kabbalah", but as I continue to study both the Tree of Life and the Zohar, it will be worth revisiting.
I have been reading this book on a daily basis for months. It serves to be a guide on the paths of the Tree of Life. Dion Fortune has deepened by understanding of the Path of Return from Malkuth to Kether~ the root and fruit of life to the Crown of All.
