https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59660.The_Emperor
This book contains accounts from those close to Ethiopia’s last emperor, Haile Selassie.
I’ve always been intrigued by Selassie and was interested to know more about him.The Emperor is a very dramatic account of Selassie's and I did get a slightly clearer idea of who Selassie was.
I wanted to know why he is so revered in the Rastafarian community for example, but this account didn’t go into that.This book whetted my appetite for learning more about Selassie and Ethiopia.
It was hard for me to accept the content as the Ethiopian people I know speak highly of Selassie.
Fantastical story of the life and fall of Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia. Dialogue seems tad polished to be from real interviews, and seems to me to be a pointed allegory for the Soviet Union.
Bản thân Haile Selasie cũng làm hoàng đế trong 44 năm, và lúc này ở tuổi 80.Mặc dù bề ngoài là phóng sự, nhưng Kapuscinski không viết theo cách viết phóng sự thông thường, mà tác phẩm này là tập hợp các lời kể của những nhân vật trong triều đình H.
The Emperor is aimed at Haile Selassie, who Kapuscinski paints as a vapid, self-important ignoramus.How much of this is actually Selassie and how much is carefully picked in order to make fun of Stalin or Khrushchev or even Gomulka is up for debate, but that's exactly what makes this book a masterpiece: I can't think of a more bitter catalog of the pathologies that accompany political power, and by the end it doesn't matter all that much who's in the limo, surrounded by Quislings and sycophants.
Không kém, nhưng không hay bằng Du hành với Herodotus và Gỗ Mun.
Ryszard Kapuściński luôn biết cách xóa nhòa ranh giới giữa các thể loại, phóng sự của ông hấp dẫn như một cuốn tiểu thuyết, chân dung vị Hoàng đế và những sự kiện lịch sử của đất nước Ethiopia được ông kể lại qua lời kể của rất nhiều nhân vật được ông phỏng vấn giấu mặt, giấu tên sống động và đầy những trăn trở dù ông luôn khách quan, không can thiệp quá sâu vào câu chuyện hay tâm trí người đọc.
A Polish journalist, Ryszard Kapuscinski, renders an account of the last schizophrenic years of Ethiopia’s ancient kingdom and the demise of it emperor, whose ways are not our ways, to say the least.
The fabric of the story gives us that answer, for Ethiopia was just such a place.
The elliptical way the speakers tell their stories adds to the book’s kaleidoscopic dazzle.
But the extremes of hierarchy leave the tragic fates of the many to deface a benighted land.Kapuscinski tells an amazing story amazingly, and his journalist’s sense of having discovered an unprecedented subject is dead-on right.
A little lesson in the blurred lines between reportage and fiction - a "detailed account" of the fall of Haile Sellasie given by the ministers and servants who once waited upon him.
I suppose if you have narrow ideas of what constitutes nonfiction you might find this sort of thing offensive, but if you've already signed on to the concept that monkeying with the truth a little is the soul of all narrative, fictional or otherwise, it's easy to give yourself over to the story provided here.
Hĺbkový pohľad do sveta, v ktorom absolutisticky vládne jeden človek.
Najviac sa mi páčili popisy toho, ako sa v takomto prostredí fyzicky menia osoby, ktoré sa dostanú k moci.
Aj preto, že som si tieto prejavy všimla aj v našich reáliách, dokonca na ľuďoch, ktorých osobne poznám.
Druhé, čo ma nadchlo, boli popisy vládcových stratégií, ako sa udržať pri moci.
My si z týchto praktík robíme často srandu a nevieme, či ide o náhodu, alebo vedomú snahu a tu nám to naservíroval Rišár bez servítky ako zjavne vedomú vec: rozdeľuj a panuj, obklopuj sa neschopnými a skorumpovanými, nikdy nič naozaj nepovedz, vyčerpaj protivníkov nezmyslami..
Fenomenalna ideja da se o nekom vladaru piše iz perspektive onih koji su činili njegovu poslugu i za njega radili.
Kapuscinki in a much more impressionistic mood details the rule and fall of another tyrant the last Shah of Iran in the Shah of Shahs.
By focusing on tyrants of U.S. client states he uses a trick employed by other Iron Curtain writers (Ex. Kadare) to critique autocracy in genera,l as in general most dictatorships are the same whatever the ideological coloring.
Kapuscinski writes in a mixture of tragedy, farce, poetry, whimsy, fantasy, and reportage, an impressionistic or surrealist tapestry of history that resonates with as much myth as headlines, what Adam Hochschild calls “Magic Journalism”.
Go to other writers for the facts, go Kapuscinski for something more.
Iako je Kapušćinjski proglašen za novinara XX vijeka, iako je ispratio 27 državnih udara, pučeva raznih vrsta, revolucija i nasilnih i manje nasilnih promjena vlasti, iako je četiri puta stajao pred streljačkim vodom i za dlaku izbjegao smrt - gotovo je nemoguće doći do njegovih knjiga na srpskom.
Ovo je knjiga o vladavini Hajla Salasija kroz oči njegovih dvorjana, a to je zaista prava riječ, jer je njegov dvor zaista bio konstituisan na jedan gotovo srednjevjekovni način i kao takav nije imao ni najmanju namjeru da se mijenja, što im je na kraju svima došlo glave.
Great historical book describing the mood of the palace in Ethiopia under the rule of Haile Selassie. Excellent in its description of mood. You actually see the insanity and chaos that Selassie created and nurtured in his palace and metaphorically throughout his country. And by the end of the book, you understand how the King of Kings was destroyed by the monster he created. The style was unlike any book I'd read in the past. It was really well done.
یک نظام یا ساختار قدرت ممکن است موجودیت خود را از دست بدهد اما ارزش ها یا ضد ارزش هایش فلسفه اش و اموزه اش در نهاد ما می ماند و بر اندیشه و رفتار و برخورد ما با دیگران فرمان می راند.
در برابر کوره های آدم سوزی آشویتس چه واکنشی می توان نشان داد؟وقتی در دیواری در هیروشیما سایه رنگی آدمی را میبیند که در دمای اتمی از جسم تبخیر شده ای او بر جامانده چه می گویید؟ اعلیحضرت عقیده داشتند که حتی سر سپرده ترین روزنامه ها هم نباید کثیر الانتشار باشند چون این ممکن است عادت خواندن در مردم پدید آورد و سپس گامی فراتر نهد و به اندیشیدن عادت کنند.
اولین کتاب از خبرنگار معروف ریشارد کاپوشچینسکی .
I often wondered what the atmosphere would have been like in Selassie's final years as Emperor of Ethiopia, what factors led to the decay of his empire and the methods taken to depose him. If these interviews are credible then Ryszard Kapuscinski has shed light on the matter. 'The Emperor' portrays the human side of Haile Selassie - as a creaky and venerable old man with both faults and weaknesses - which is a stark contrast to the symbol of humility in power and all-conquering lion, that he usually is presented to us as.
Fascinating book - an oral history of the last days of Haile Selassie's empire told by his palace servants.
There were sections here where I lost interest (mainly as a result of repetition), but what will always stick with me are the little absurdities (the revolution starting at a fashion show; the Swiss calisthenics instructors appearing days before the fall of the empire to conduct fitness classes); and the fascinating, depressing glimpses of professionalism in the person whose sole job was to open the door at exactly the right time, the person whose sole job was to bow just so on the hour, and the person who had to choose the right pillow out of 64 options to slide under The Emperor's tiny feet.
Ta książka nie jest reportażem, tylko bardziej esejem o istocie władzy.
Najlepiej widać to w warstwie językowej, wszyscy bohaterowie mówią tym samym głosem, widać że to styl Kapuścińskiego, a nie autentyczne wypowiedzi dworzan.Trochę mnie irytowała przesadna literackość, najbardziej chyba pod koniec te piętrzące się bez końca częstochowskie rymy "Lepiej nie skakać, żeby potem nie płakać.
Lepiej nie gardłować, żeby nie żałować." Wg mnie odzierają one książkę z autentyzmu; zresztą nie ma co liczyć, że dowiemy się z niej dużo o Etiopii samej w sobie.
Ale jako dzieło filozoficzne, alegoria, w której na miejsce Cesarza można sobie postawić różne postaci z historii, podobała mi się.
I suppose the American frame of reference for The Emperor is probably the "new journalism" stuff from the '60s-- Truman Capote, Tom Wolfe, Hunter Thompson, all that.
So I liked all those guys a grip when I was in high school, and now that I'm a bit more grown-up, I can appreciated Ryszard Kapuscinski.
Rather than writing about kids dropping acid, he writes about the utter insanity of the court of King Haile Selassie at the twilight of the Ethiopian Empire.And rather than being strict reportage, you get the sense of everything converging on this single piece of writing.
History, ritual, materiality, memory, myth, and injustice are all laid out bare.
Som rada, že sa vďaka vydavatelstvu Absynt dozvedám o nových témach. Túto knihu by som si ja v kníhkupectve asi do rúk nezobrala, ale asi by som mohla dosť ľutovať, že o čo som prišla. Príbehy ľudí ma vždy fascinovali a zaujímali. A práve v tejto knihe mi ponúkajú iný pohľad na vec a ukazujú ako dokážu ľudia vidieť svojich vladárov.
The most penetrating, compelling book on the nature of power and the inevitability of it's dissolution within the framework of human nature, Kapuscinski's book should be taught -before- Maciavelli in any self-respecting Political Science class.
Salman Rushdie wrote about him: "One Kapuściński is worth more than a thousand whimpering and fantasizing scribblers. His exceptional combination of journalism and art allows us to feel so close to what Kapuściński calls the inexpressible true image of war".
Na początku zachwyt, potem znużenie. Doceniam kunszt, formę i styl, ale to chyba nie mój świat. Ani sama Etiopia, ani Kapuściński.
The delighted crowd went round to the indicated spot - which enabled His Supreme Majesty to leave unembarrassed through the front door and go the Old Palace, where the court awaited him."Writing about “The Throne” reminds me that there is an entertaining section where the courtier describes the Emperor’s carefully planned visits to outlying districts, where the district had to “be put in order first” (draining the Treasury) and imagines the effects of the Emperor not announcing his visit in advance but simply turning up.
The last witness in the book is the Emperor’s old ‘valet de chambre’, whom Kapuściński had great difficulty finding.
A concise capture of a crumbling Empire. Kapuściński's work is fantastic. He decided to make a Trifecta for the end of colonialism (Haile Selasie, Shah of Iran, Idi Amin) sadly the Amin book was never completed.The Shah of Shahs should also be great from Ryszard.
Aj keď tu všetci dávate päť hviezdičiek, mna skratka autorov štýl nebaví. Radšej by som si prečítal menej príbehov zasadených do kontextu a dozvedel sa, prečo sa udiali. Takto som len čítal, čo sa dialo. Ale možno som len rozmaznaný Seierstadovou.
Ricardo vie písať. No toto nie je jeho najlepšia kniha. Aj preto len 4.
Almost all other sources will indicate otherwise.Here are a few things to think about before and while reading this book.It was written only after Emperor Haile Selassie I had passed away, therefore the "facts" cannot be disputed or verified.All accounts given are from anonymous sources allegedly close servants of the Emperor, identified only by initials, again unverifiable.All the accounts use reverence when talking about His Imperial Majesty, and yet at the same time slander his name and abilities as a ruler.The book rarely mentions anything of worth as being attributed to the Emperor and when it does quickly poisons the accomplishment with a claim of arrogance and corruption.There is no mention of the destroyed infrastructure left behind by the Italian invasion during World War II and the difficulty in rebuilding a poverty-stricken war torn nation.I noticed that in the English translation, strangely the poems, I'm assuming were originally in Amharic, rhymed in English.The book paints the picture, that African's are not capable of ruling themselves, and that they are inherently lazy and hopeless in gaining autonomy.
A book about Ethiopia written by a Polish author, The Emperor tries to reconstruct the waning days of the Ethiopian monarchy through the testimonies of the survivors of the fallen regime, former servants and nobility.
Truth be told I had never heard of Haile Selassie or the Ethiopian monarchy(apart from the vague Solomon/Sheba connection) prior to reading this book.
So Kapuscinski lent his own phrasing to the original English speakers and the English translators lent theirs to Kapuscinski’s Polish text.The story itself seems both old and new.
The new was of course the particulars of the Ethiopian uprising, monarchy and the sequence of events.

The Emperor is so powerful that when he elevates someone to a new position, he changes their body language completely:First, the whole figure of a man changes.
(34)The man becomes old, he becomes slow, he becomes massive and solemn as he attempt to stifle his quirks to fit into that stagnant court atmosphere.
(50) And that, moreover, the Emperor doesn’t like his ministers to be good at their jobs, so that he “shined by contrast”.
Instead he chooses a few details that stick out in the mind: such as the specific way in which a new minister’s body posture changes upon his promotion to power.
