https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29540318-year-of-yes
Ok so I know this review is more of a personal vendetta than an actual reflection of the book itself, but I had to stop reading 5 minutes in when she criticized the idea of being "a quiet librarian in Ohio." As an actual quiet librarian living in Ohio, all I have to say is: what's wrong with that?!
I'm talking life-ruining things she's done to people personally and she just waves it off like it's something small that she will "forgive [her]self for, one day".(view spoiler)[While she also lauds herself for her diversity choices in her shows, I'd like to take a minute to tell her to not be so quick to pat herself on the back when it comes to some LGBT character choices that are quite cringe-worthy.
(hide spoiler)]There are also photos included in the book, and true to her bragging about her beautiful family, you can see that she's genetically blessed.
Who knew this was what I needed to hear? Shonda Rimes did. A gifted writer who has created some of America's beloved television characters, Rimes tells it like it is and reveals her flaws, insecurities, and weaknesses all while sharing the story of the greatest challenge she made for herself. YEAR OF YES gives hardcore helpful advice on how you can't do it all, it's okay to admit you need help, and saying YES to yourself comes in many forms. Highly recommend to all women!
I like the spirit behind this book and I like the author a lot, but I really disliked the tone of the writing. I just felt like: get to the point already.
Don’t get me wrong, there are many good teachers at my uni, but Shonda Rhimes has so much to say and such a fantastic way of expressing herself.It doesn’t matter if what she’s thinking is unlike what others are thinking.
But then I read Shonda Rhimes’ thoughts on the matter, and suddenly I was like, ‘‘You know what, it makes sense that women can’t be in five different places at the same time and that they need help taking care of their kids and maintaining the house, especially if they (like Shonda Rhimes herself) have one or multiple jobs with long hours.
It was sadly more egotistical and focused around a handful of experiences within that year - no doubt profound to Shonda, but not thoroughly inspiring to the reader.
If you like Shonda Rhimes and want to learn more about her, then great, this book is for you.For someone that doesn't like talking about herself, she does a really fabulous job of talking about herself...On the up side, she is witty and charming, warm and lovable.
And maybe this would be empowering to someone who is seeking validation on not wanting what society tells her she should have.
Something clicks and Shonda embarks on a Year of Yes. Her results are astonishing and so is this memoir.I have never watched a single episode of Grey's Anatomy.
You don't need to be an aficionado to appreciate this book.Shonda begins with some crushingly honest passages about her discomfort at sharing her life and her passion for writing.
Without the tales, the fiction, the stories I've spun, it is highly likely that right now, today, I'd be a very quiet librarian in Ohio." pg 6, ebook.
That is to say, it feels shocking." pg 12, ebook.Shonda is just so relatable.
Dear Ms. Shonda Rhimes, I want to be your friend.
You don't know me but I want to be your friend.
And I have to apology again since I will unlikely watch them in the future.
But thank you for saying yes for a year, and writing your experiences in a funny, frank, honest book which felt like we had a long conversation over a delicious lunch as if we were friends.
I will do my best to become Badassery and practice Wonder Woman pose every chance I get and I look forward to another long lunch date in the future.Sincerely,Jenny
Then the publisher advertised it on my Facebook feed, inviting my comments.
I left a negative comment based on what I read, which the publisher then deleted.
So here goes.The self-indulgent twaddle in this book became nauseous early on.
This book originally appealed to me because I thought it would be about prioritizing for joy.
There was a lot more about poop than there was about anything insightful or joyous.Reviewing a book I didn't finish is not my usual approach, but I also don't think the publisher should use my feed to promote its product and then cherry-pick the feedback.
Did you know she's a writer?
She's a writer.
She's a writer.
Although the focus of the book is purportedly about how Shonda Rhimes finds a way to love herself, I can't help but think she loves herself quite a lot.
I think that's great.
But man, does she think she's funny.
And man does she love to hear herself talk.
It felt as if this were the first draft, like she just wrote it all stream of consciousness, last minute (as is clear she does a lot) and she thought: perfect!The book could really be a pamphlet: Get out in the world.
I was happily surprised when I was approached by a representative from Simon & Schuster asking me if I was interested in reading Year of Yes by Shonda Rhimes in exchange for an honest review.
I knew Rhimes’s book was due to be released soon and wasn’t sure if I’d be able to pick it up to give it a try.Even though my work schedule has butchered my reading and blogging for the moment, I’m still managing to read a bit here and there.
Year of Yes was my latest conquest and it arrived 4 days ago and I managed to gobble up this 307-page book in that time.
And I do not like many inspirational books.
And yet here I am, really liking Shonda Rhimes' inspirational memoir.
How do they write a book that doesn't just make you hate them for all the great stuff they have in their life?Well, if you're Shonda Rhimes, you happen to be a great writer with a strong voice and a flair for the honest joke.
You don't need to be a fan of her shows, but if you've watched the first season of Grey's Anatomy, you'll recognize the voice quickly.
That's how Shonda Rhimes writes.
Shonda Rhimes *knows* her privilege.
But the introvert part meant that Rhimes was refusing some “best time of your life” invitations to do things where she would be feted, admired, and all that, but she could also find people to admire.
Not very long after that she tells us about her struggles to do things that she isn’t as good at as TV shows and imagination, like living consciously, victoriously, really.
Or rare.Diversity!As if there is something unusual about telling stories involving women and people of color and LGBTQ characters on TV.I have a different word: NORMALIZING.I’m normalizing TV.I’m making TV look the way the world looks.
3.5 stars
Going into this book, I didn't know that it was by the writer of shows like Greys Anatomy, Private Practice and How to get away with murder.
Since I'm a person who struggles to say YES on a daily basis, that title made me want to read this book.
One or two times, I have already decided against buying an audiobook because of that....But Shonda Rhimes is nice to listen to.
So that gave me a feeling of relief.Basically I like the message, that she doesn't like it when people praise her for her diversity in her TV-Shows.
Dude is totally wrong.)So yes to this book as well.
Shockingly, the problems of a zillionaire TV mogul and my problems have zero overlap. So: nope.
It makes me want to really take care of myself and love myself more.
If anyone needs an inspirational self-help kinda read, whatever your main struggle in life, this book will help make you feel so much better.
Even if you're not looking for particular advice on a thing, like me, read it too.
The main thing is to love who you are and not to worry about who you are supposed to be.
This book makes me nostalgic for the show and I appreciate it even more.
A fun and sometimes enlightening journey of personal growth. I enjoyed myself a lot on various occasions but it failed to truly hit the spot. It was funny, honest, and entertaining non the less. I'd still recommend it especially if you are a fan of her work. One of those quick/nice treats that come in book form.
I’m sure that non-caucasian readers will benefit from reading about Rhimes’ experiences with being asked repeatedly about being a successful African-American woman.One chapter which younger readers will potentially find useful was the one on sorting out real friends from hangers-on.
Not all of us are successful enough to have hangers-on, but I think we all at some point or another realize that not all the people we hang out with are really our friends.
To bravely purge these people from your life is a liberating experience and Rhimes describes it well.I admired Rhimes’ honesty regarding her refusal to get married.
I was slow to warm to this book - I loved the idea of the topic and enjoy Rhimes' work on television, but initially found her writing to be too casual and chatty to really hold my attention.
Rhimes is confessional and funny, writing with a wit and rhythm that probably works best when read aloud (of course, she writes for TV!).
Once I adjusted to that rhythm, I couldn't get enough - many passages made me laugh out loud while also reflecting on my own life choices and how often I choose "yes." If you love Shondaland, you will probably love this.
Shonda became like that theatrical friend who always injects drama or performance into her conversations but can tell a story better than anyone.Not surprisingly, the book also provided a lot of useful advice on saying yes.
Obviously, for many of us, saying no can be just as important as saying yes, so all this was helpful too.There was also a lot of really interesting information on Shonda's creativity—how her work affects her life and vice versa.
But even if you're just looking for an entertaining, interesting look at a creative person's life and how she learned to shake it up, Year of Yes is definitely worth a try.
I'm kind of torn here because I see the value in this book, but it wasn't my cuppa.
Nope this was a book for fans of Grey's Anatomy and Scandal.
I am apparently one of two people on earth who has never seen a single episode of Grey's Anatomy which puts me at a considerable disadvantage in receiving this book.
The good thing is that Rhimes knows this and is OK with it.
And it just might, as far as it goes...3.5 Stars rounded down because frankly Rhimes worked too hard to seem down to earth and grounded.
Last year, when I packed my bags and moved across the country to a land where I had nothing, knew no one and didn’t have a job lined up I did it, because Shonda Rhimes holds an entire night of television.
Yes, I know Shonda is a great writer.
Why hide it?Year of Yes is a very interesting book, because it’s about a specific year in Shonda’s life.
All this time, since I was in high school, I have let a lot of things in life pass me by, because I always felt that if I got to where Shonda Rhimes currently is, I would be happy.
In other memoirs that were hugely successful to me as a reader (e.g. This Time Together: Laughter and Reflection and Born Standing Up: A Comic's Life) I truly felt I was listening to an intimate reflection on parts of their lives.
But I honestly felt like she did not release any of her true feelings into her memoir.
It's as if she approached this memoir as a script with herself as the character she was writing about.I understand that Rhimes has used this overarching idea of saying 'yes' to things and that her decision to do this more often for a year changed her outlook on life.
There's so much I want to say about this book but it appears I have no way to express myself.I'd started to review it a few times but backspaced my words away.
But I loved hearing how she tackled it, I felt so enthusiastic for every success and I cringed at her setbacks, I felt invested throughout.She and I have very little in common except for maybe our personal thoughts on getting married.
Not your comfort zone -well, yes, know that, too, but by this point in the story, you should have figured that out- but your healthy boundaries.
3.5/5 - Although I've never seen any of Shonda Rhimes's TV shows, I picked this up excited to hear how an introvert flipped the switch to say yes to so many terrifying (yet exciting) opportunities.
Oddly, I found the passages where she talks about being a parent to be the most powerful.
I loved the content, but I personally had trouble getting paster her writing style - again, I'm not familiar with her writing from her shows, but it often felt just a little bit cringy.
I would still 100% recommend, but some aspects of her writing just weren't for me.
The writing style was annoying... Very self centered and stream of thought based. I love her shows but didn't enjoy her book.
Anyway, it quickly turned into this mega personal moment, being so perfectly timed on the verge of graduating with this second <<>> Master's degree and maybe finally having all the free time that I never had during my 20s along with desperately not wanting to let myself fall into the hermetic life I got used to by necessity for earning a SECOND GD MASTER'S DEGREE while working full-time.
Yeah so.It really got under my skin.
Long and short, it was a great pick-me-up without actually feeling like a self-help book...which it isn't.
que mulher meus amigos, que mulher.
Upbeat & wonderful hard won wisdom - thank you, Shonda!
