https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1196248.Crystallizing_Public_Opinion
He has had his critics over the years – but this book in my opinion is simply critically well and very relevant today in the computer age.Mr. Bernays touches upon public opinion in association with the newspaper industry of 1923; the radio was still relatively new at this point in time and he touches upon the PRC and the medium that has yet to have been tapped into for this consumer need.
Great book! Just as relevant now as it was in 1923.
i.e. create events that get covered - do things!
Do things out of the normal routine to get coverage.
The long introduction, added after the first addition, discusses the history of public relations. The rest of the book, published in 1923, is about the need for public relations, some of its techniques, and its ethics.
It is a matter of his judgment as to what will absorb the half hour's attention a certain set of readers will give to his newspaper.""The development of the United States to its present size and diversification has intensified the difficulty of creating a common will on any subject because it has heightened the natural tendency of men to separate into crowds opposed to one another in point of view.
His visionary ideas foresaw the role public relations would play in a democratic society at that time and in the future.
I found particularly compelling his views on the "herd instinct" explaining how mass perception works, how marginal their sense of reality is, and how the public mind needs to be managed by an educated elite.
Walter Lipmann's views are also highly visible through the writing.
Also, of equal significance I would rate Bernays' undertaking on stereotypes, susceptibility to suggestion, preconceptions characteristic to the public mind.
This is a fairly horrifying manifesto, penned by the "father of public relations" who in the early- to mid-20th century took the theories of (his uncle) Sigmund Freud and married them to both rhetoric and the logic of capitalism to invent a whole new occupation.
Bernays gives an overview of the mentality of the "herd," talking about the emotions and primal drives for which the herd has an affinity.
Lists of emotions, drives, facets of this thing called the subconscious.
Bernays uses this taxonomy to instruct the new "p.r. counsel" on how to succeed.
Bernays is often put on lists of the most influential people of the 20th century.
"Кристаллизация общественного мнения" Бернейса меня давно отпугивала своей научностью, а зря.
Один из создателей индустрии и автор термина "консультант по связям с общественностью", племянник Фрейда Едвард Бернейс написал книгу в далеком 1923 году, но принципы и примеры, которые он приводит, актуальны и сейчас.
Бернейс четко разграничивает роли и задачи "пресс-агента" и "специалиста по паблисити" по сравнению с консультантом по связям с общественностью, задачи которого - не описывать, а создавать новости, исходя из глубинного понимания стереотипов, мнений, ценностей и желаний разных группы общества.
Скажу лишь, что в процессе чтения книги я несколько раз откладывал ее и брался за тетрадь, чтобы набросать идеи для клиентов.
Bernays gives insight into the increasing importance of the public relations officer and their duties during the time of 1923, which is still perfectly applicable to current life. Interesting read that goes into the real life applications of the PRO, rather than giving theories and hypotheticals. Would recommend to anyone, including his later work Propaganda.
The psychology of marketing. You'll be as mad as I was realizing how easily swayed we are.
Good, solid book. Funny, how most of what we think are our opinions is actually based on someone's else view, be it a book, article, movie....or "news".
A good starter book for understanding the work of the so-called "compliance professionals" (read: propagandists, marketers, pollsters, salespeople, political advocates, etc.). If you are already familiar with this ecosystem and possible channels, then this is not a book for you. The language was also a bit hard to swallow for a non-native English speaker, but overall I enjoyed the book.
Recommended by a friend.I have 5 stars because it was direct and to the point. The book is about directing public opinion in a positive way using the means available. Newspaper, radio, movies, theater but not TV having not been invented yet. It was written in 1923.
"The institutions that make public opinion carry on against a background which is in itself a controlling factor".The print i'm reading has tons of typos and run on sentences. It seems like the writer found specific examples to reinforce his ideas rather than come to conclusions based on events.
Retrospective look into the origin of public relations as a discipline with a lot of historical contrasts. Nice read with a bunch of historical examples.
This should be required reading in high-school.
This book was a bore fest.
It seemed like a college student who was trying to impress his professor by the way he articulated his writing.
Most of the book made little sense, and after you read the first 20 pages you can put the book down because the rest just keeps repeating itself.
And the lessons that it is teaching are common sense facts, that any one person should know.
I don't know if I hate this book so much because I had to read it for a class within a two day period, it probably is..
either way, don't waste your time with this repetitive non-fiction snooze fest.
It's almost like he's daring "the masses" to read his book. To Bernays, this is impossible because there are no individuals in "the masses." I've long watched the wealthy wage class warfare on the poor. This book seems to be yet more proof of this. It also makes Noam Chomsky look terribly unoriginal.
Crystallizing Public Opinion is about the art and science of Public Relations. Bernays shares with us a wealth of knowledge about his life's work.This edition has an Introduction by Stuart Ewen that includes an exclusive interview with Bernays in 1990. A timeless masterpiece!
One of Bernays' books on the theory of Public Relations.
Indispensible material for anyone who studies the subject.
