https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/694997.The_Weirdstone_of_Brisingamen
I remember the first few chapters of it being read to me during the library sessions at school when I was seven and it was the first fantasy book I ever checked out all by myself (I had to know what happened!).Unlike a lot of fantasy books for children, I remember being quite genuinely frightened during parts of this which was thrilling.
I still re-read this occasionally and each time am transported back to that sense of wonder and adventure I felt when I was a very young girl.
A testament to the skill of Alan Garner I think.
I first read the book when I was, oh, 12?
This genre has since been dubbed "urban fantasy", although there's nothing urban about Alderley Edge, the very real place in which this tale takes place.Garner's writing is wonderfully concise and yet perfectly ample at the same time.
He gives exactly the amount of description the reader needs and no more.
I'm rather tired of over-descriptive passages and infinite details about a character's facial features.
Garner's story is so well grounded in its place (Alderley Edge) that he doesn't need to constantly describe his character's gestures or features.
Delivering the Weirdstone safely to the good wizard Cadellin Silverbrow, however, aided by Gowther and by two Viking-like dwarves, Fenodyree and Durathror, embroils the two children in the adventure of their young lives.At this point, you may be wondering why a seemingly adolescent fantasy novel was chosen for inclusion in a listing of some of the best adult horror books, but trust me, those horror elements are present in abundance.
I was bored by The Weirdstone of Brisingamen halfway through, and doubt I would have been any more interested if I were fifteen years younger.Interestingly, however, Garner wrote the second book in the trilogy, The Moon of Gomrath, in 1963; but he then became bored with his creations and later disassociated himself from them, saying he had moved on and developed as an author, and had no intention of finishing the trilogy.
The mythic element is eclectic: here, as in many of his later books, Garner draws on elements of various mythological traditions of northern Europe that have left their traces in the British Isles - Old Norse, Celtic and Old English - and combines them in a way that is particularly resonant, and peculiarly his own.This is a book which can be enjoyed by children of seven and above, and could be read to the class or read independently.
I know that Alan Garner is a big deal for lots of people whose opinion I respect, but I seem to have a blind spot for his work.
Yes, it’s true that this little adventure takes place with some sword-wielding dwarfs who speak in a mock-medieval way, but it’s exciting not because of this.
Another interesting aspect of the book is the way that the fantastic and the real come together.
I’m talking about something I don’t know a lot about here, but in LotR, the model is that the fantastic and real are separate, but co-existing.
Reviewed for the Blast from the Past feature on my blog - Books by Proxy5 StarsI remember my mum sitting on the edge of my bed, my hands clutching at the covers, as she told me the tale of Colin and Susan and their adventures with goblins and demon dogs, with warlocks, witches and wizards, and the forces for good and evil.
This jewel holds the only magic which can defeat the evil spirit Nastrond.When evil stirs, Colin and Susan must embark on a quest to return the Weirdstone to the wizard Cadellin, who guards an army of sleeping warriors in the dwarven caves of Fundindelve.
An odd, simple children's book that meanders somewhere quite impressive.There are a lot of things I'd love to know about this world, especially how the magical bits fit into the everyday bits - at one stage they're on their epic journey from the farmhouse to the hill, hiding from evil enemies in the skies and the dark, and they hear cars driving past on a normal road.
We follow them through smaller and smaller spaces, with more and more rock pressing down on them from above, until we reach a denouement of claustrophobic proportions, four small people inching through a nine-inch-high tunnel that hairpin-bends and twists until you, the reader, are biting your nails for their safety.
I don't know whether it's that whole 'younger readers can accept the unnatural much better than adults' thing that people mentioned when reading Diana Wynne Jones, though, but I found it hard to follow and it all piled in on top of everything else in a haphazard, difficult to process manner.
I know it's a trope of fantasy for younger readers that the kids get to tag along, and be equal to adults, etc, etc -- I love The Dark is Rising, which is almost as guilty of it -- but it makes me shriek, the way the adults easily accept the kids being dragged into it, and the way the kids seem to just...
Such an important, underrated book. Pure, beautiful, terrifying, magical fantasy.Oh, and the scene in the mines I'm fairly sure is responsible for my mild claustrophobia. No, really.
It would be considered a challenging text to share with children these days and yet, undoubtedly, the children would finish the book with a far better understanding of what great language can sound like (I think it's a great read-aloud text); how to evoke a real sense of place; how to pace a story and, perhaps most significantly, how to show readers that often what is not said is far more powerful than that which is.
This is set in a corner of Garner’s native Cheshire, not in a secondary world like Middle Earth; the names and figures draw not on an invented mythology but directly from native traditions and languages, from Welsh, Manx, Irish and Norse folklore and literature (for example Angharad, Fenodyree, Morrigan and Grimnir, respectively); the main protagonists are not adult halflings but two, as it turns out, not-so-ordinary children; and the story is set not in some faraway land many millennia ago but in a here-and-now mid-twentieth century, with trains, waterproof macs, bikes, electric torches and ramblers.
A million years ago and it was awesome!
I was always curious about it and I'd read good things about Garner's writing, specifically his depictions of nature.
Unfortunately, it wasn't as good as I'd imagined, but that's probably down to my reading it as an older, more mature reader.Good descriptions of landscape and weather, you get a strong sense that Alan Garner enjoyed writing about nature and place.
There are nods to Arthurian legend, and you can feel the influence of Tolkien with Garner's inclusion of elves, dwarfs, a wizard, and a stone of power.
3 stars for the nature writing, 2 for the story and characters.
Probably my favourite audiobook. Philip Madoc's voice is PERFECT, as is the accompanying music. Along with the story, this audiobook is PERFECTION. In fact, I used to go to sleep listening to it. I well and truly love it. This time around I listened to this with my kids. Unfortunately, they didn't love it like I do. My 10 year old son said he didn't really understand it, so he gave it 3 stars. My 16 year old son also gave it 3 stars. But I'm the one that counts (damnit), so I'm keeping it at 5. Hmph.
Two children, a brother and sister called Colin and Susan, are sent to stay with relatives of their mother’s when she must join their father abroad for six months.Even for 1960, this expectation feels harsh, and adults throughout the story are not to be trusted.
Even kindly farmer Gowther and his wife, Bess, who are the relatives Colin and Susan stay with, are unable to defend the children when they are caught up in a power grab orchestrated by lower-level entities like the terrifying wizard Grimnir against their master, the evil Nastrond.The titular weirdstone is key to these machinations.
There are some really great elements, but they don’t come together for me because they’re such a mash-up — and there’s no reason given for the mash-up, as in a story like Gaiman’s American Gods.
I didn’t really get a sense of great history to some of the mythology, even though the names given are ancient.
I don’t follow…Maybe as a child I’d have accepted it more easily, with fewer preconceptions and less pre-existing knowledge about some of the mythology used.
Alan Garner’s books always gave me the willies as a kid, though, so I didn’t read it back then.Originally posted at The Bibliophibian.
I first came across Alan Garner’s debut novel, not as a book, but as a serial on the Home Service (the forerunner of BBC Radio 4) in 1963 and it had such an effect on me that even now, more than fifty years later, I still feel the urge to hide if I see a flock of crows flying in my direction – and on the one occasion I travelled to Alderly Edge for a meeting, I could hardly concentrate on the proceedings inside for staring out of the window at the scenery and noisy bird life.In a retelling of the old legend of a sleeping army awaiting a call to save the country from danger, two children, Colin and Susan face evil witches, flying spies (see crows, above!) and sinister localised fog, as they try to prevent the eponymous jewel falling into the wrong hands.This is the first part of a trilogy which took Garner more than fifty years to complete.
Set in Cheshire (England), The Weirdstone of Brisingamen tells of Colin and Susan, brother and sister, who stumble into the magical world that exists under and around the everyday world they know.
Susan wears a curious stone on a bracelet inherited from her mother, and the local corps of witches, wizards and evil beings recognize it as a magical artifact essential to a plan to protect the world from the forces evil (them).
Garner paints them vividly enough to frighten those prone to nightmares.Through the early chapters, the children stumble in and out of mysteries and dangers with no understanding of what they have (the stone) or what is at stake.
Enjoyed the start, as I used to work at Jodrell Bank so know the area pretty well!
Wet and personality-free children essential to facing down evil and fulfilling ancient prophecy?
Evil-but-never-explained-why baddies with unpronounceable Norse-ish and Welsh-ish names?
Check.As for the actual content, 90% of it seemed to be running away from said baddied, mostly on foot and in inclement weather.
Why did they need to be there, at that time, when it turned out that being about two miles away was just fine?
Why didn't Cadellin pick up a payphone and let them know where to meet?
A pretty flimsy bit of fantasy literature for children, since disowned by its author.
It begins well enough, with the young siblings Susan and Colin arriving in Alderley and picking up clues in the rural landscape about a mythic wizard.
The tension builds nicely as the mystery thickens.
But as soon as the wizard materialises all sense of restraint is lost, and the contemporary setting all but disappears behind a cut-and-paste cast of dwarves and elves and knights.
By the end I got the impression that even the author was bored and impatient to wrap things up.

Okay, a pair of kids are sent to the countryside of Cheshire for six months, a classic British fantasy set-up. In the caves under the hills there's an ancient army of knights, waiting to fight and defeat evil. Okay. I'm with them so far. But then there are dwarves, and one of them says, "By the cow of Orgelmir!" and that was pretty much all I could take.
This book was written as a sort of answer to LORD OF THE RINGS, and my! It is thrilling. A wonderful book for people who need more high fantasy after working through Tolkien The only flaw with it is that the third volume is only this year (2012) coming out!
A girl and her brother are pursued by a sorceress and an evil wizard when it is learned that the girl possesses a stone of great power. The children travel through tunnels and mountains and come up against some horribly scary creatures.I felt much better about my meh attitude toward this book when I read that the author himself became bored with the characters and delayed writing a planned third book in the series and called the novel "a fairly bad book."
I loved this, but I don't know what I was thinking trying to listen to anything by Alan Garner by audiobook! I feel like I missed at least half of the plot and a third of the characters. I'll definitely need to revisit this in print sometime.
If that sounds like Narnia, or Spiderwick Chronicles, or Book of Lost Things, or Peter S Beagle's Tamsin, or Holly Black's Tithe, or even Twilight, then, I guess, it means we're dealing with a really deep rooted archetype.The landscape in this case is a rich, heritage-filled part of what I presume to be the West Country (based on the accent of one of the local characters).
In short, the book sometimes feels like it is not a simple, beginning-middle-end story, but an accelerating train of narrative that is building up momentum, almost derailing, and continuing helter skelter on tracks into a more fantastic world than the one we started out in.
This is a book which my mother (a great lover of children's fiction) has been urging me to read for as long as I can remember, and I have finally found the drive to finish it.
I listened to this book on audiobook, and enjoyed the experience well enough, although I think I am a little too grown up and the writing a little too dated for me to fully lose myself in the story.
However, this would be a great introduction to high fantasy for children aged 8-14, and for anyone older who enjoys wizards, celtic lore, and beautiful interweaving of storyline and landscape.
This is just as amazing and poignant as when i first read it as a teenager.
No one gets the pain of contact with the Unseen World the way Garner does, the way its beauty leaves a longing in the human heart that can never be filled with anything in our world.
This book is beautiful and filled with power, and I loved it just as much this time, but I noticed its deep and haunting sadness even more.
I 've heard that one of Garner's more recent books deals with these characters in adulthood and how these adventures altered their lives, and will have to find that and read it.
(Dialect has never appealed to me in books - 'The Knife of Never Letting Go' is one of my rare exceptions.)Colin and Susan are remarkably blank characters - intrinsically good, brave and persistent, but utterly lacking in foibles or distinguishing features.
A sizable chunk of the book is given over to an agonised flight by the Good people across the Cheshire landscape, pursued by the Bad people, and having to time their arrival at the necessary meeting place to make the important thing happen with the precision of an enduro racer.The journey is genuinely gripping and scary (and has dwarves.
