https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17208.Friday
Early on in the book Friday finds herself out of a job and then travels from situation to situation acting as the reader’s eyes and ears for Heinlein to share with us his vision of a dystopic future and expound on his political views.
For all of her strength, speed and deadly fighting ability, Friday is nothing more than an insecure, bubble-headed skank who thinks that SEX is the only valuable commodity she has to offer in this world.
I say “most” because there’s an instance at the beginning of the book when Friday is kidnapped and gang-raped by 4 guys (I’m not kidding folks).
Heinlein first published Friday.Blade Runner was the film adaption of Philip K.
Friday for Heinlein and Priss in Blade Runner have created in speculative fiction an archetypal female: inhumanly strong, sexually active and dancing to the beat of a different drummer.
This archetype may be seen in other later works like Neuromancer and Snow Crash.Heinlein readers will not be shocked to read page after page of sexual discussions, sex talk and long dissertations of sexual freedoms.
This is also like Snow Crash in that Heinlein has described a balkanized, anarcho-capitalistic world order.
The first few pages had me thinking "Wow, when the old goat isn't preaching his agenda of communal polygamist living and actually TELLS A STORY, he makes you remember how good he is at it!" Then he promptly settles in for about 100 pages of agenda and leaves most of the potential that this character had to fizzle.
Even though Friday is just another incarnation of Heinlein's typical horny-bimbo-with-a-Ph.D. dream girl (and there's nothing wrong with that), her artificial person status, ninja-like ass-kicking skills and glamourously dangerous job should have made for a much more interesting read.
I read this book several times as a teenager, because it had sex scenes.
It's, like, here's a superspy and she has a bunch of sex, and that's it.
Which you can see why that appealed to 13-year-old me, but at this point, y'know, I've been a superspy for years now and I'm over the casual sex.
Friday opens with a gang rape, during which our heroine's superspy training allows her to relax and enjoy parts of it, while commenting on each assailant's sexual prowess, and...what?
It's not like Heinlein is claiming that all women should relax and enjoy being gang raped.
A little googling led me to the astonishingly comprehensive Heinlein Dedications Page, which gives the following key:Ann = Ann Nourse, wife of Alan Nourse (see Farnham’s Freehold dedication).Anne = Anne Passovoy, a fan and filksinger (from L’Envoi list).Barbie = Barbara Stine (see Have Space Suit - Will Travel dedication).Betsy = Betsy Curtis, nurse and correspondent of Heinlein’s.Bubbles = Mildred (Bubbles) Broxon.Carolyn = a niece, now married to Douglas Ayer.Catherine = Catherine Sprague de Camp (see Assignment in Eternity dedication).Dian = Dian Crayne, science fiction author, aka Dian Girard.Diane = Diane Russell (see The Star Beast dedication).Eleanor = Eleanor Wood, Heinlein’s agent, now agent for the estate.Elinor = Elinor Busby, wife of F.
Heinlein's age really shows in this one. The most noticeable things about Heinlein's later works are his twin obsessions with free love and breakfast. This book features several pointless sexual encounters and equally pointless detailed descriptions of breakfasts. While the sexuality can come off a bit "creepy old dude" the breakfasts are entertaining, well described slices of an old man's true joys extrapolated into his story. I really would only recommend this one for those with previous Heinlein experience or folks wanting help planning breakfasts.
Notoriously lefty and democratic California in Heinlein’s imagination leads to a leadership that confuses “chief executive” with “chief of the tribe” and puts a feathered hat on the head of their government leader.What’s worse than any of the outright obnoxiousness of this book is that it manages to commit the worst crime of science fiction entertainment: it’s BORING.
but I’d be remiss not to mention the way Heinlein presents sex, sexuality and women in this book.Here’s some prose from the opening after the main character has been ambushed and captured by unknown assailants:But why waste time by raping me?
It was the first Heinlein I'd read.When I first read this book, Friday was among the first female action heroines I'd run across.
Friday is a good attempt to create a believable female character, but she's not very successful, and the excuse that she's an artificial person and not normally socialized only goes so far.
Heinlein is often accused of making "men with breasts" for his female characters, and Friday often strays into this territory.
I don't think he was going for absolute realism with Friday, and with that caviet, the story pulled - and still pulls - me in.I still have that old copy with the Whelan cover art.
I am naming this an all time favorite as it is Heinleins own response to all those misguided self-righteous 'literary critics' and college lit professors who needed a scapegoat in popular fiction for a twenty year period of time.There are reviews here at Goodreads that obviously have been written by those readers so tainted by the 'legend' of Heinlein and his misanthropic misogyny, jingoism, and racism that they fail to recognize or can only grudgingly admit there is much more else to RH and the knocks on his character are mostly unwarranted.
A very well written storied view of the near future of a world ruled by corporations.
Racial and gender equality are obviously important to Heinlein and that and any other form of bigotry is reviled by this author in a clever and demonstrative story.
Loved it.
Heinlein sure knows how to write a good story, even if his female characters are always bi-curious sex maniacs in favor of free love with multiple partners.
For an artificial person, Friday seems pretty damn human.
There are human people who have very little but are rich in dignity and self-respect.
The great trouble with religion - any religion is that a religionist, having accepted certain propositions by faith, cannot thereafter judge those propositions by evidence.
One may bask at the warm fire of faith or choose to live in the bleak uncertainty of reason - but one cannot have both." - Boss 253
He was right.While the exploits of our genetically-engineered superhuman in love, sex and war are fun to read about, Heinlein's futuristic milieu's are always the front runner.
The fascist socialists who kill anyone with a savings account or the theocracy hell bent on removing rights from everyone except white men?At least sex isn't an issue, and there's plenty of it.
Similar to Stranger in a Strange Land, Heinlein has created a world with open, free love, communal sex groups, and perfectly acceptable one-night stands.
So much of this book seems be relevant to today - at least regarding the current political and extreme polarization.
Nearly all of his tropes are here: Open relationships/shared partners, promiscuous sex being no big deal and as taboo as shaking hands, shady corporations, war, people fighting for personal freedoms, people hiding from crooked authority figures who are on their trail, noble older men, an emphasis on scholarship and learning, people getting rich by luck and/or tricky shenanigans, anti-bigot sentiments, anti-organized religion sentiments...I could probably go on but you get the idea.
Again, if you like Heinlein's body of work this probably won't be a very big deal to you.
It is a tale of acceptance and belonging and what is the human soul.
It is a story of an "artificial person", Friday Jones, whose "mother was a test tube, and her father a knife".
Friday asks the age-old question, what is a soul?
What makes a human, a person?
So why does Friday tug at me so?Because it is told from the human point of view.
She has the same fears and desires, and her childlike charm and insecurity makes her all the more human.Her quest to find a family and for acceptance is a long and winding one.
After The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, much of his works started becoming a little redundant in their characterizations ('good' women are always super smart and sexy and love to fuck, 'good' men are always brave and strong, both have frontier ideals and want a free society of people just like them who all fuck each other without jealousy and live in group marriages) and a little slower in their plot machinations (they spend more time on characterizations of people that, if you've read Heinlein of this period, you're already familiar with).
Heinlein, in his later years was a major perv.I had first read this many years ago, and remember it as an adventurous romp about a Balkanized Earth (and beyond) featuring plenty of sexytimes starring his nympho-with-a-brain super agent.
Seriously, there is nothing to this book, it's a prolonged sketch of what I can only assume is Heinlein's dream girl.It's an interesting world, it's not littered with his usual sock puppet sermonizing, and Friday is actually an interesting character.
The biggest problem is she's NEVER tested, which is weird to claim when the book opens with a gang rape, but I doubt any reader would contradict it.
I read "Friday" many years ago, and only because I forgot to send back the monthly card for the book club I was in and this was a default selection!
The world is a different place in this book.
In one passage (and I don't think this is really a spoiler), Friday is in the Big Bear Territory (formerly California) and stops at a lottery kiosk.
There are dozens of different lottery ticket selections, which seemed rather preposturous when I first read it but has since become part of everyday life.
I have my suspicions about Heinlein's women. Friday seems the embodyment of them all.
The ending (view spoiler)[was a little weak for my taste, but it was otherwise consistent with the story.
Just because I want all of the loose threads to tie together doesn't mean that they should, so while the ending was a bit of a letdown, it was completely appropriate for the story, so I guess it (hide spoiler)] was fine.I do not at all agree with some reviewers that would describe the book as misogynistic, or that Friday is merely a man with [boobs] (although I have not yet read any other Heinlein, so it could be part of a pattern, but even there I would argue against looking for patterns across separate works as a general principle).
I read this in high school (the cover really helps these star ratings). If I were to reread this today (which I have no desire to do), I would give it 2 stars, mostly for the ending ((view spoiler)[which reduces the eponymous Friday to a barefoot-and-pregnant housewife of one of the men who raped her in the first chapter (hide spoiler)]). Addendum (11/22/11): Upon further reflection and in light of the comments below, I'm revising my rating to 2 stars: Get past chapter one and ignore the ending
If I were to reread this today (which I have no desire to do), I would give it 2 stars, mostly for the ending ((view spoiler)[which reduces the eponymous Friday to a barefoot-and-pregnant housewife of one of the men who raped her in the first chapter (hide spoiler)]).
Upon further reflection and in light of the comments below, I'm revising my rating to 2 stars: Get past chapter one and ignore the ending and what's in between is Heilein's bloviations, which you can revel in if you're a fan or argue with if you're not.
Serán MUCHAS LAS SITUACIONES EN LAS QUE SE ENCUENTRE NUESTRA PROTAGONISTA Y EL LECTOR, desde misiones de correo – espía, marco dramático – familiar, encuentro de amistad y acogida en el Canadá británico, aborto de un intento de asesinato por parte del presidente de la confederaciones, golpes de estados reclutamiento cómo mercenaria, aventura agrícola en Arkansas, hasta llegar a un última aventura espacial, pasando por estados de duelo, etc.....TODO ELLO BIEN PLAGADO DE ESCENAS Y DIÁLOGOS, PRE, EN Y POST SEXUALES, sin por ello DEJAR DE LADO LOS DOS PRINCIPALES OBJETIVOS DE LA OBRA: LA VIDA DE VIERNES Y SU INTENTO DE ADAPTACIÓN AL MUNDO Y LA CRITICA / DENUNCIA ACERCA DE CIERTOS ASPECTOS Y ENTORNO DE LOS SERES HUMANOS.
"Фрайди" е безнадеждно остаряла фантастика, която има претенци да е забавна, но за съжаление не е.Далеч е от най-доброто съчинено от Хайлайн.
Все пак я дочетох, но от средата ѝ настана голяма мъка, доста скучно ми беше.
Пък и тоя мазничък край...Опасно близо до 1*, ама айде, заради името на Хайнлайн - да са две!Цитати:"Колкото и изумителни да са заплатите на обществените служители, неизкоренимо е убеждението им, че са оставени едва ли не да гладуват.
:)"P.S. Но ето пък от къде се е взела идеята за Кенгурото на Къртис Чен, така че, все някаква полза е имало.
It was a bit of an AH-HA moment, since I am also reading about Robinson Crusoe just now and wondered if Heinlein would work in any reference to Crusoe and his man Friday.
And I also got a kick out of Friday using the phrase 'feeding the Elephant's Child' when she was assigned to do research in The Boss's library archives and kept wanting to find out more about nearly everything she came across...readers familiar with Kipling's Just So stories will understand why this phrase was so appropriate.Only a few pages of math and science facts to work through during a flight through space.
Friday is a wonderful heroine - not one-dimensional, and so on.The world that Friday lives in was echoed slightly in Neal Stephenson's Snow Crash (another all-time favorite novel of mine).
The other "created" lifeforms in the story - Living Artifacts or LAs - did not have to be human at all (one was a dog, Lord Nelson, with voice and minimal intelligence) - and did not have to suffer such injustice.
The prejudice just made me so mad - even as we are ever closer to having real human clones.I also loved the cover art - and only found out later that my favorite covers were all Michael Whalen.
My favorite changes depending on my feelings, my life at that moment, and probably a heap of things I don't even notice.I loved science fiction and fantasy from an early age, but the heroes I found were almost entirely male.
The point of life is to decide for yourself what is best for you, and to go out and grab it if it doesn't hurt anyone else.
The fact that Friday can speak to me at so many different points in my life, with so many different and changing needs, makes this one of my all time favorites.
Friday is the story of a young woman who is a high level courier for the mysterious Boss.
Heinlein's scenes of Boss preparing Friday for her life after courier service are fascinating from a modern view, considering that answers and information surrounding the questions he poses to her are within the accessibility goal of many services like Google and Wikipedia in today's world.
This novel also provides some insights (and good quotes) on Heinlein's view of civilization and its trend indicators.
Overall, Friday is a great book for any Heinlein fan to read.
This episodic adventure story moves along at a pretty good clip, and was a fast read.
She also seems very much what RAH thinks the ideal female would be.I first read this as a "new" Heinlein novel, after having read Starship Troopers, The Moon is a Harsh Mistress and several of the "juveniles".
Upon rereading, I find this connects well to the juveniles (it tells a good story).
It also connects to Gulf, which is one of four short stories in Assignment in Eternity, which I read for the first time in 2014.Overall rating - 3 stars.
I love love love everything that Heinlein ever touched.
There was a brief moment in the story when our dear Friday meets another of her own kind (no spoilers, I hope) and he disappears, convinced that she wouldn't want him if she knew what he was...heartbreaking.Like in Farnham's Freehold, I got the sense that, without climbing up onto a pulpit, R.
A lot of other stuff happened, hearts were won, happy revelations and whatnot...
I just got a lot out of that sort of heightened social consciousness he showed with her interactions in her family, organization and sexual arenas."My mother was a test tube..."
Oh Mr. Heinlein, you are a flaming sexist, and crazy as a shithouse rat. But I love you anyway! I can't help it.Please read any Heinlein novel with your eyes WIDE open. His ego was huge and he liked to pretend he was every character in his books, including the females.
A counter-attack from her own side follows, and we are well away.Following the death of her boss, and a series of assassinations around the world causing anarchy, Friday is recruited to carry out an assignment carrying a fertilised embryo across space to a royal couple on one of Earth's colonies; realising half-way there that this is the sort of mission that generally brings a quiet death at its end rather than a reward, she determines to escape from the ship.This is an enjoyable novel, particularly by the standards of Heinlein's later work.
I had a review, but the browser ate it. In brief, late-period Heinlein about a secret agent who has unlikely erotic adventures while navigating a libertarian dsytopia. The plot exists mostly to just string together action and sex scenes, and while the bones of the setting are interesting, it doesn't match up to fleshed out details of Heinlein's better work. Oh brain eater, why do you have to hit my favorite authors?On the plus side, all characters are of legal age, and I don't recall any relatives sleeping together.
