https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2051.The_Simple_Art_of_Murder
Everybody dies except for the tough guy with a heard of gold and the femme fatale who emerge unscratched; the latter escapes.
All of these tough guys come out somewhat wooden and nobody can hold a candle to Philip Marlowe who feels real.One short story deserves to be mentioned separately.
His witty one-liners of Philip Marlowe are great and make this character come alive, but his is the only example where Chandler's humor works.None of the story is boring or bad however.
He criticises the plotting rather than the writing whilst stating an obvious preference for the more realistic prose of Hemmingway (and himself.) I was astounded to read that The Red House Mystery was an incredibly popular bestseller and yet despite being written by the creator of Winnie The Pooh faded in to obscurity.The short stories do not feature Marlowe and are a mixed bag but all interesting in parts.
DNF-ed!!! As I had mentioned before, I DNF-ed more Raymond Chandler's novels than managing to finish them. Unluckily this is one of the DNF experiences.The writing and how Mr. Chandler described his characters and the harsh world of shady business deals, gangsters, corrupted cops and junkies are still brilliant, but the stories...............are just so boring. Perhaps I wasn't in the mood but I just couldn't focus on what is going on in the stories, so...2 stars only.A much better short stories collection by Mr. Chandler: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
The title is the same as Chandler's classic essay that redefined the detective novel, taking it out of the mannered parlors of English cozy mysteries and out of the hands of amateurs and slapping it in the middle of mean American streets where violence is a bloody but everyday affair and the detective is a loner with a code, but not necessarily a nice guy. Chandler, along with Hammett and Cain, invented the hard-boiled detective genre, which I consider an American art form.
Still i wanted to read this collection of 7 short stories by Raymond Chandler, partly because i adore Chandler's prose, but also because i wanted to see how he had arrived at the Marlowe character.
The sense i got from these stories, is that Chandler was trying out a number of characters & the sum of these & a number of other shorts printed in Black Mask Magazine, provided him with the character who would eventually morph into Phillip Marlowe.If you read this collection & you have read several of the Marlowe novels, you will notice several similarities to scenarios in the Marlowe oeuvre.
A collection of non Marlowe stories from pulps in the 1930s, starring an assortment of police officers, hotel dicks and I forget who. They are just okay. His 1950 Atlantic essay is pretty good. He basically puts down all genre and literature too. He makes fun of everyone who imitates him, but admits he imitates Hammett, and does have nice things to say about him.
Cuando empecé a leer “El simple arte de matar” de Raymond Chandler pensaba que iba a ser una especie de manual sobre la escritura del autor y, en principio, lo era porque comienza con un ensayo sobre las novelas de detectives.
Hay imágenes y comparaciones tan ricas como los ojos del color del humo; expresiones que nos hacen esbozar una sonrisa por su lógica y su evocación visual.
Y, sobre todo, interactúan.Un libro para aquellos que alguna vez disfrutamos viendo a Bogart y Bacal mirándose a los ojos y diciendo esas frases que se nos han quedado grabadas: “No tienes que decir nada ni hacer nada.
He put his head on one side and listened to the frail, twittery music from the radio room beyond a dim arch at the far side of the lobby.
She was wearing lounging pajamas of heavy ribbed silk embroidered with black lotus buds."You like Goodman, Miss Cressy?" Tony Reseck asked.The girl moved her eyes slowly.
"You like Goodman, Miss Cressy?" he repeated gently."Not to cry over," the girl said tonelessly.Tony rocked back on his heels and looked at her eyes.
"She jumped her bill."He put his long delicate hand out and turned it slowly, fluttering the fingers, with an effect almost like a lazy wave breaking.
If you have any intention of writing mystery you have to read Chandler and the 1944 essay, The Simple Art of Murder, which opens this collection of his eight longish short stories, is a must-read for anyone who writes crime.
You could quibble about Chandler's hardboiled style getting in the way of his precious "realistic" approach to writing detective stories (how absurd now it seems for his characters to be downing quart after quart of rye whisky before driving off to confront some corrupt city councillor and beat them in a shoot-out).
Perhaps a little, but the man was a master of detective fiction, a craftsman who created characters and plots that are so good, so iconic, and so fulfilling that Hollywood has remade "The Big Sleep" as often as it has any book of Hammett's ("The Maltese Falcon" was also filmed twice).In some ways, I think that Chandler's work is more seductive, more flowing than Hammett's.
What I can say without hesitation or qualification is that both men and their creations are "must reads"!Here is a book where we get to see what Chandler himself thinks of detective stories and how they need to be constructed.
I had forgotten that Chandler reworked all of his short stories into his novels (incidentally, this is the reason for the famous (maybe not that famous) ‘who killed the chaffeur’ question in the Big Sleep, which is basically that he kept a previous story whole cloth without realizing that his changed made this plot point irrelevant) which was kind of fun anyway because I got to relive my favorite of his novels without having to re read them altogether.
This book is a series of short stories, written in the 1930's and 40's, prefaced by an essay he wrote on writing crime fiction and gives the book its title.I've always been a fan of Chandler's "Phillip Marlowe" and of Dashiell Hammet's "Thin Man." I grew up reading these novels that were in my great grandfather's bookcase.
As much as I'd like to make him a tough PI, it never worked out that way.
But he's tough in his own way.If you write these sorts of stories, or you just enjoy reading them, I'd recommend this book and the opening essay.
It's listed on FictFact as part of the Philip Marlowe series, and that's the only reason why I read it now.
The stories are very dated, uninteresting and badly developed.I couldn't even finish the essay.
It seemed a very unnecessary and purposefully dense study of a subject that has already been developed further than described, and therefore doesn't apply anymore.
The second phrase of it, however, stands to memory: "Old-fashioned novels which now seem stilted and artificial to the point of burlesque did not appear that way to the people who first read them." I love the irony of how well it applies to Raymond Chandler himself...
The essay on writers/writing was of interest. The collection of stories varied in interest for me. I don't mean to speak disrespectfully of writing by author who is held in such high esteem, but I struggle to get through the slang of the 30's. When it was written it had to have made sense to the reading public. For me, I stumble over each foreign expression, and that, I am certain, was not the intention of the author.
I'll Be Waiting 4-starThis is clearly head-and-shoulders above the other stories, with very familiar Chandler prose and pacing, plus a femme-fatale worth far more lines than she got.
The King in Yellow 4-starThis is pretty good, great femme fatale, hard-bitten gumshoe, but too much “info-dump” solution at the end.4.
Pickup on Noon Street 3-starThis is more complex than the previous stories, and it's clearly Chandler, but uneven.Wow, best femme fatale name ever: "Token Ware" ...6.
3rd story “The King in Yellow” is pretty good, great femme fatale, hard-bitten gumshoe, but too much “info-dump” solution at the end." 40.0% "...
In early stories, he presents scenes without his lead character, which he avoids when writing Marlowe.Chandler has stuck to a similar beat in all of works, whether they include the iconic Marlowe or not: Detective entering the crime scene only to distort the murder scene and even take something with him, women of questionable character that toy with the lead male's brain, bad cops who come off like criminals with badges, seemingly calm and calculating criminal masterminds, and the lead PI getting himself in a jam with the law.
Free download available at Faded Page.

Una gran colección de relatos de Raymond Chandler, con su toque especial de personajes de detectives que se sienten abrumados por la presencia de la mujer, figura que juega un papel inesperado en sus historias. Chandler sabe recrear la atmósfera de la novela negra como pocos. Leyendo sus relatos uno se traslada a la estética del cine negro norteamericano de los años cincuenta. Muy recomendable para los amantes de este género.
Mr. Chandler is simply put, the master!just doesn't get any better than this!Anyone who wants to write in this hardboiled, noir style vein simply must read this. And not just once!He writes scenes like no one else can. Present, fast paced, exciting, action packed, on the move!His characters are tough, and bleed out onto the page in your face as you read. Makes you feel like you're actually there in the midst of all the action with them, and that, is about as good as it gets!Will return to this over and over again, for writing inspiration, and pure enjoyment!
Some authors struggle with the transition from novel to short story or from a series character to standalone, but not Chandler - the strengths of his Marlowe novels are reflected here even as his main shamus takes a breather. But the true highlight here is the opening essay, an excellent manifesto for hard-boiled fans everywhere.
Although I am not a fan of crime novels, and although not every story in this anthology caught my fancy, I overall became a fan of how Chandler writes.
I am very intrigued that his first crime short story was published when he was 45, and that his first novel was published when he was 51.
He wrote other short stories before WWI, but it's his crime fiction he is most known for.
This collection of stories is a great introduction to crime fiction, pulp fiction, and the type of story that has entertained Americans since the 1930's.
This isn't a bad collection of hard-boiled short stories but it's not a terribly interesting one either.
It's mostly a period piece, without the humor that makes, say, Mark Twain's critique of the James Fenimore Cooper still worth reading.Also separating itself from the pack is "Pearls Are a Nuisance," a humorous caper very unlike the rest of Chandler's work here.
It's still a crime story of course but rather than the usual hard-boiled protagonist, it features a comical upper class fop, in the P.
A nice, well, 'pearl' among otherwise pretty average pulp.All in all, a fairly unremarkable collection but if you enjoy Chandler, these stories should prove fun breezy enough reads.
The only Raymond Chandler I'd read before this book was his inexplicably famous "The Big Sleep," which I thought was a load of toss.
High body counts and silly contrivances abound.Chandler's essay "The Simple Art of Murder" ought to be called, "why my mystery stories are better than everyone else's, especially those with the audacity to outsell me." It's even more ridiculously self-important than his stories.
A pretty hilarious escape from a car.Guns at Cyrano's: another good female character, loads of shooting (hence the title) and blackmail.Nevada Gas: the most absurdly contrived murders of all, and exactly the sort of thing Chandler mocked Dorothy Sayers for writing in his essay.
Review "Raymond Chandler is a master." --_The New York Times__?[Chandler] wrote as if pain hurt and life mattered.?
Parker, The New York Times Book Review ?Philip Marlowe remains the quintessential urban private eye.?
--Los Angeles Times_?Nobody can write like Chandler on his home turf, not even Faulkner.
?_The Boston Book Review_?Raymond Chandler was one of the finest prose writers of the twentieth century.
. He wrote like an angel.?
--Joyce Carol Oates, _The New York Review of Books _?Chandler wrote like a slumming angel and invested the sun-blinded streets of Los Angeles with a romantic presence.?
This collection of short stories by Raymond Chandler is accompanied with an essay by the same on how murder mysteries should be put together.
He felt that murders should take place in the everyday settings where people tend to die, and be performed by persons whose reason might resolve them to kill.
Chandler's problem with this is that when you transplant murder to an easy setting it becomes attenuated, a denatured exotic satisfying a sensibility removed from that which accompanies it in the real world.
The book begins with Chandler's Atlantic Monthly essay about detective novels which is followed by eight short stories.
In the essay, he discussed the difficulty in creating a good detective story given that they tend to be about murder and given that there are so many such stories out there.
He discussed Hammett as the master of this because of the style he introduced and his carefully revealed details.
He failed to mention that he himself was also a master.
Of the eight stories, half of them worked better than the others.
This story was not typical Chandler dialog or characters.
A fascinating slice of Chandler. four short stories drawn from the early pulps, my favorite being "Pearls Are a Nuisance" (most of these stories,unlike his later novels,are written in the third person and even though Marlowe never appears you can easily see the early influence and shape of things to come) but the real highlight is the title essay where Chandler takes apart most of the classic detective stories and offers a critique of crime fiction.
The sterling title essay is followed by a string of fun but fairly disposable pulp detective stories, full of characters cracking wise and jamming pistols into each other's sternums and whatnot. Best of the bunch is "Pearls are a Nuisance," whose hero is an exceedingly well-spoken alcoholic. His crime-solving adventure proves to be more tongue-in-cheek than hard-boiled.
Read this book primarily for the essay of the same title included in this collection, which by itself is sufficient reason to pick up this book.
