https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10574.The_Colorado_Kid
I'll admit, the variety of authors they've collected to write for them is extensive, and THE COLORADO KID just happened to be the first one in the Hard Case group to make it to the top of my to-be-read pile.
I understand, because just like the main characters in the story told me, a mystery with no resolution plain and simply pisses people off.
People want a happy conclustion to a problem--whether it be why 9/11 happened, why oil prices are so high, why a young woman in Wisconsin was murdered, or how a man from Colorado went to work one morning and ended up dead on a little island off the coast of Maine only hours later.
"Ever come across a real unexplained mystery?"The ratings for THE COLORADO KID were all over the place...I have only started reading Stephen King again in the last few years- after a couple disappointments in the late 90s, but after taking a chance with some of his more recent offerings- and loving them...I decided to take a chance with this one too.The Main Characters:Dave Bowie – The 65-year-old managing editor of The Weekly Islander, the small newspaper servicing the island of Moose-Lookit.Vince Teague – The 90-year-old founder of the Islander.Stephanie McCann – A 22-year-old on summer internship at the IslanderOver coffee- Dave and Vince tell Stephanie about a unsolved case which has bothered them over the years.The Story:WHO: John Doe- The Colorado Kid, eventually identified as James Cogan from Nederland, Colorado.WHERE: Found on Hammock Beach, Maine.WHEN: Early morning, April 24, 1980WHAT: Two teenagers find the body of a man slumped against a trash can.
This is my first by Stephen King, I picked The Colorado Kid mainly cause I love the TV show Haven and its based on this, I was surprised that this is not a paranormal and the show is, its weird the this book being the predecessor is just a crime mystery.I'm not a fan of crime books but its good to come out of my comfort zone that consist of Fantasy,Paranormal and Romance.
The characters in this book are so weird,The MCs consist of a 22,65 and 90 year olds that work together in a newspaper house.No this book is not written in the POV of a cop, Its written in the POV of Stephanie an intern at a newspaper est.
Yeah, like I said, those people who hate on this book because of the aforementioned reasons...
Same shit goes for Blockade Billy, which is two short stories coming in at 80 pages and published by Cemetery Dance for the fucking insane price of $14.99.
So here you have a good reason to hate The Colorado Kid - the price.
Let's mention that King knew that people would hate this book.
To be fair and quote him accurately, he says: "Depending on whether you liked or hated The Colorado Kid (I think for many people there'll be no middle ground on this one, and that's fine with me) you have my friend Scott to blame.
I know I really liked him for about five years, but how many times could I read the same story?).Doing some personal history mental math, I come up with figure that I haven't read a Stephen King novel in about seventeen years and two months.
Even when it wasn't just about the scares or the thrills, most of the themes I find myself enjoying in books today I first came across in Stephen King (he probably is an underrated author, now that I'm actually thinking of it).

Sometimes a small nugget of story from one of his novels is told, a scene plays on the screen right off his pages, Paul Sheldon and the Misery series are mentioned when a birthday gift is one of his books.
I know I can!I read in the Stephen King group here on GR that someone dislikes the show Haven because this book is a perfect unsolved and unsolvable mystery.
I can understand her feelings, but love Haven for exactly the same reason she dislikes it.King wrote the perfect mystery novel.
But if you can give your readers just one unknown thing (two at the very outside) and then kick in what Dave Bowie there calls a musta-been, your reader will tell himself a story.” Stephen King, the seemingly natural born storyteller, offered this little mystery tale up via the pulp/hardboiled crime line Hard Case Crime back in 2005, later seeing it bizarrely adapted in to some kind of poor man's X-Files by SyFy as the supernatural series Haven.I actually decided to give the series a shot after learning of its existence whilst purchasing the book, turns out Haven is terrible, and yet still I remained eager to read King's ripping yarn.
***NO SPOILERS***(Full disclosure: book abandoned at page 66 [out of 184 pages].)Although I appreciate Stephen King’s effort to write in a totally different style as part of the “Hard Case Crime” series, that’s one of the major problems with this book.
I sincerely hope readers new to King don’t choose The Colorado Kid as their starting point.As for the plot, three characters--two older men and one young woman--discuss crimes, with the main topic being the mysterious 1980 case of the “Colorado Kid.” “Discuss” is the operative word here; this is a dialogue-heavy story.
A nice little story that’s more about the characters (and their lingo) than the mystery itself. Just don’t read it expecting a payoff or a satisfactory conclusion, because you won’t get any...
I haven't checked how many pages the text version is, but at just over 3 1/2 hours for the audio version I consider this a short story.
As has been mentioned in other reviews this story presents a mystery without a resolution.
What we don't get is to know or any real answers.I picked this up because a TV series I've been enjoying, the SciFi Channel's "Haven", states it's based on this story.
Perhaps because of the short format, the story is tighter and more concise than King usually is.
Perhaps also because this is basically a character study, a conversation between three people, two of whom have a fascinating "real life" mystery to tell.
Only 184 pages and for seven days I am trying to finish this book. So Boring! To imagine the tv series is definitely much better...
a Hardcase Crime novel,The answer to the mystery is that not every mystery has an answer. Well written with a nice flow and likable characters but there wasn't much in the way of entertainment here. I was into the suspense, looking for the resolution, even though we were warned there would be none, and when the end finally arrived...yes, I got it. Still, I could have used a little more meat and potatoes, even though it was only one mouthful that done in our victim...or was it?
King has always been good at inserting little bits of human mystery like this into his stories.The second story, the one The Colorado Kid is really about, is that of a man from Colorado who was found dead on this Maine island back in 1980.
As the two journalists tell the tale, more and more odd details surface, and as they try to work through answers to each one, the case becomes stranger and stranger.The thing is, The Colorado Kid is actually a bit of a meta-story, and appreciating it requires knowing a little bit about Stephen King.
Este libro de King es uno de los más odiados y desvalorados  .
Nos enseña que no todo tiene que resultar como queremos; el autor nos siembra dudas y las deja ahí, en nuestra mente, germinando y desarrollándose, sin final.
King nos hace subir a una aventura inconcebible, proponiéndonos sacar nuestras propias conclusiones; no darnos él las respuestas.
Nos deja incómodos, con más dudas que certezas.
Como ya dije, King no nos da un caso típico de un libro de misterio, sino explora las profundas y oscuras aguas de lo inabordable, del sinsentido.
In his Afterward to the Hard Case Crime Novel, he almost comes right out and says that the reason the Colorado Kid has the ending it does is because he wants us to enjoy the process, the getting ready, the figuring things out, the guessing and looking for clues the way kids do on Christmas eve when they’re hoping for certain presents but not exactly sure what they’re getting.
King of course goes one step further in the Colorado Kid. To make sure we appreciate the wishing and hoping and guessing etc, we find, on Christmas morning, that he’s taken away the whole tree and all the presents too… especially that biggest one we wanted most: THE SOLUTION TO THE STORY.
"Sooner or later, everything old is new again."This was an unusual book, definitely not King's usual style. I did enjoy it, but ultimately was left feeling unfulfilled. And I get the point of the book and that not everything has an answer... but this just left me frustrated more than anything.The characters were great, as were the interactions between them...and the story of the Colorado Kid itself was intriguing. So there were definitely positives to the book! I'm just a bit meh about it all...
King himself said that there will be no middle ground for this book. People will either hate it or love it. Well, M. King, put me in the love camp. I guess you can have a story without a throughline , it makes for a true mystery and it definitely worked for me.
3.5 stars
But I think the natural conclusion that a reader would draw, is that the young intern hears or learns something from this retelling that ultimately sheds new light on the case.As a fan of King’s fiction, and especially his short fiction (TCK only goes 160 pages), I wouldn’t have a problem with a story without an ending, in and of itself.
As if the title and the Hard Case nameplate by themselves weren’t bad enough, they slap a classic noir cover on the book, with the titillating caption, “Would she learn the dead man’s secret?”, which again suggests a story that is the very antithesis of this one.So, if I’m Hard Case Crime, and Mr. Stephen King wants to publish his grocery list on our imprint, of course, I let him.
In the course of a single afternoon, and prompted by the futile investigative efforts of an outside journalist who was attempting to gather info on some of Maine's 'unsolved mysteries,' Vince & Dave slowly (emphasis on slowly) reveal to Steffi the events surrounding the mysterious death of a man who came to be known as "The Colorado Kid".
But back to that 'mystery:' I think I have a better chance of solving the mystery surrounding the Colorado Kid's death than I do figuring out what the fuck this book cover featuring an alluringly clothed babe with a come hither expression on her face and (what looks like) a recording device in her hands has to do with the story which unfolds behind it's cover.Oh wait!!!!!!
Picked this one up directly following From a Buick 8 and was instantly thrown into "not a story with a start, a middle and an end" and "curiosity killed the cat, but satisfaction brought him back", which kind of gave a deja vu feeling.
In the 80's in Sweden, King had a rep of writing amazing books with the occasional accident in between, the latter ones were often described as "a great idea with a very laboured ending", but these are more in the vein of "kind of a fun idea with very little story and the lack of an ending".

Another great HCC from King. I enjoyed this book just as much as Joyland. Great characters. Excellent story line. :)
το ξερει καλα το αθλημα ο τυπος...απλη ιστορια...πολυλογια ακατασχετη αλλα δεν ξεκολας με τιποτα...
The Colorado Kid is the first Stephen King novel I can remember reading.
I wanted to read it the minute I saw the TV show Haven, and saw that it was based on The Colorado Kid.I hate stories without endings.
However, I love the Afterword here, by Stephen King, where he reminds us all that life is the ultimate mystery, and there are just some things that not only will never be solved, but perhaps shouldn’t be solved.I’m a major fan of Conspiracy Theories; reading about them anyhow.
Though vastly different from Haven, and the whole Audrey storyline, which is even more mysterious, I think I like this book better.
Δεν ξέρω αν αυτή η ιστορία ήταν διήγημα που προοριζόταν να συμπεριληφθεί σε κάποια συλλογή ή όχι.Θέλω να πω πως θα μπορούσα να ζήσω και χωρίς να το έχω σε αυτόνομη έκδοση! :ΡΚαλογραμμένο,στο γνωστό ύφος του Βασιλιά,ενδιαφέρουσα ως ιστορία αλλά τίποτε περισσότερο.Όπως αναφέρει και ο ίδιος ο King,εμπνεύστηκε και θέλησε να διηγηθεί μια ιστορία,αφήνοντας τον αναγνώστη να κάνει εικασίες.Χωρίς να 'προδώσει' κανένα τέλος.Απλά το έγραψε.Κι εγώ απλά το διάβασα,πέρασα καλά αλλά πάω παρακάτω και μάλλον σε λίγους μήνες θα πρέπει να μου το θυμίσει κάποιος για να το ξαναφέρω στο μυαλό μου.
I buzzed through this little book in one day.
It was told in such a way, I felt like I was listening to an old friend tell me a campfire tale.
I sped through the pages, gathering details, making my own notes and theories.
I even liked the end, because it's going to keep me thinking for a good long while, wondering what happened to the guy.
For being such a short book, I felt a kinship with the characters, like I was there with them.
I know this story has gotten disparaging remarks, but I'm going to say I liked it rather well.
3 out of 5 starsThis is the book the Syfy show Haven is based on. While book and show share the setting, they have very little in common. I liked the book just fine, but I'm more partial to the show because of its paranormal leanings.Review moved to http://covers2covers.wordpress.com/20...
3½ out of 5 starsThis is the book the Syfy show Haven is based on. While book and show share the setting, they have very little in common. I liked the book just fine, but I'm more partial to the show because of its paranormal leanings.Review moved to http://covers2covers.wordpress.com/20...
Wow, just wow. Quite a change of pace for Stephen King writing a mystery and not a horror book but I loved it. Some will like it and some won't but you'll never be bored with it. I would recommend this one.
