https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61124.I_Write_What_I_Like
I live in the city where he was murdered.
Some people here don't like it when i voice the notion that we still bear a collective shame over this.
They don't like most of the notions I voice, come to think of it.
I read this book in Dublin in 1993, when I spent a year wandering aimlessly around Europe while my country burned.
It's hard to believe he was in his twenties when he wrote most of these things.
His thinking was way ahead of his time.
What he said is way too important to be ignored like that.
Killed whilst in custody at the age of thirty, he is often regarded as one of the foremost thinkers about racism and was influential in the development of the Black Consciousness Movement.
Biko outlines the development of SASO and the BPC and the need for black people to organise themselves without the help or support of whites:"Blacks are tired of standing at the touchlines of a game that they should we playing ...
This book is a collection of essays by and interviews with the man who has been called the originator of the Black Consciousness movement.
Black Consciousness was a movement designed to help Black Africans relearn to respect themselves and their culture.
Biko was controversial in that he wanted white anti-apartheid groups and black anti-apartheid groups to operate by themselves and not rely on each other.
Building up the pride and psyche of the South African minorities to a point where they could take control of and change their political destiny was the concept behind Black Consciousness and there is no telling how important it was to the movement there.
Read once in university, I decided to re-read I Write What I Like after getting it as a gift from a friend.
He should have been one of the greatest post-apartheid leaders of South Africa, instead he was brutally murdered by the apartheid police.
It is such a devastating thought to imagine what South Africa would have looked like if he had lived.
Biko's writing should be studied by all whites - his grasp on the racial policies of colonisation and the subsequent dehuminisation of people of colour is remarkable and eloquent.
I read The Sabi which was a personal account of life growing up in South Africa and references were made by the author Brown, to Biko and Ture.
In this book the author states that the time of Biko was never over.
Biko's book affirms the realities of the black experience and how it is incumbent on people to own their own identities, to claim it as a prerequisite for real freedom.
It is a great book and one that should be read by Africans in Africa and around its diaspora.
The real freedom can only be defined by the African.
As a black South African born 10 years before democracy, it is only now that I am an adult that I see the effect that apartheid has had on the culture and value system of black South Africans in particular.This book is an effective lesson to any South African that he is not a victim of his circumstances. Every man has the power to make the choice to change his life. A truly inspirational read.
He had the charisma of Mandela, the courage of Hani and the intellectual capacity of Sobukwe and Mbeki....Dead before 30 at the hands of apartheid...
It was difficult to get into, but I suppose I was not ready for it at that point in time. So I parked it for over a year. When I did finally get into it I was absorbed. My own "Black consciousness" was awakened and I am now a better African than I was. I always say this book should be compulsory reading for our children and subsequent generations, lest they forget who they are. I know it will be compulsory in my home.
Insight into the mind of one of the most inspirational and unique South African struggle heroes. Where others were fighting for freedom, he was trying to free the african mind (decolonsing the mind). It's one of the most beautifully written books and makes you proud of being a South African, challenging you to do better.
What shape South Africa might have now, had Biko survived, is anyone's guess – but he had the status at 31 (when he died) to have challenged the old guard that became the post-apartheid government.
The pieces collected here, journalism, interviews, court testimony, give an excellent insight into the idea and goals of the Black Consciousness Movement – an approach to analysing apartheid that accentuated the colonial relationship, and turned back on white South Africa its elevation of 'race', of the politics of skin colour, to the primary factor in everything that was everyday life, and argued that before any meaningful change can be made, black people have to be confident in being black people.
The grandfather of South Africa's anti-apartheid movement, Biko deconstructs racism, provides support for affirmative action, and logically annihilates apartheid supremely. Small book, heavy read. He was a giant amongst small-minded racists.
Whether Biko is right that being at peace with inherent contradictions is an "African" trait in contrast with the "Western" need to approach everything scientifically to find an answer or create a synthesis of conflicting elements is another story, and it's something I would like to consider further regardless of the nationality/skin color/"sort" of people to whom these traits are (glibly?) attributed.As someone with white skin, I have the very comfortable option, as a member of society's privileged and as a member of the majority (at least visually) in most of the places I've lived, to be able to say that I don't "identify" as a white person.
This is an exceptional book of Steve Biko's writings.
His analysis of apartheid got to the heart of the issue, systemic oppression through racism/white supremacy, and his goal of empowering Black Africans through Black Consciousness took this head on.
His writing on integration and the deficiencies it had as an endpoint for Black liberation was one of the few I've ever read that effectively criticized this mode of achieving equality - because it doesn't directly address systemic oppression and superiority/inferiority complexes that won't be solved by integration alone.
I could probably write so much more about how much I was impacted by Biko's work but I wouldn't be doing it justice.
I'll start by saying I am biased - I'm a huge Biko fan and have admired him since I was a teenager growing up in the Eastern Cape, South Africa.It was no surprise that I thoroughly enjoyed this collection and found them both challenging and moving. An exceptional man with a profound intellect and mind the right attitude to change a nation.A lot of focus is on Mandela, but in my opinion the greatest South African leader that never was is Steve Biko. Read this book and see what you think.
The founder of the black conscious movement.A composition of speeches and writing of Steve over a number of years.The book reflects on his sentiments what he views as the problem for the black man in South Africa and to a larger extent Africa.For the time it was written i would say it was indeed needed.This book is highly revered in the black conscious circles.I happen to come from the city where Biko was held captive before being transported to Pretoria so the historical context hits straight home
Intense read.As a black youth existing in the same country that this man was morphed in, it really intensified my love for the African self. A revolutionary writer. It surprises me how well articulated he was and how young he was too. An exceptional life ended at only 30 years of age. His posthumous affect he had on myself any many other people around the world is masterfully strengthened in this book.
I like to get of this book I don't know it had come out
I watched Cry Freedom in 7th or 8th grade, and sort of subconsciously remembered that I had experienced some deep emotional upheaval during the film, and carried the name Biko through the years, though I never expanded my knowledge of the man until I rewatched the film and looked for Donald Woods book.
The portrayal of Biko in film always lays heavy just how articulate the man was, and I have found in this small collection of letters and transcripts that Biko has an incredible command over the English language, such that his racism as thesis explanation was probably clear to me in full for the first time in my life.

Biko is considered the father of the Black Consciousness movement in South Africa. He was murdered by South African police. Although he wrote in the 60's and 70's, his brilliance and vision for dignified communities and a better way of life continue to inspire.
I was just disappointed by the selected writings in this book. I really did try to find what everybody else was hyping the book about. I failed. That probably makes me 1 of the thousand that really love this book. Sorry, I couldn't help it.
I read select articles from this in World Lit. and fell in love with Biko. Here is someone who, against all odds, fought for what he believed in and didn't care who hated him for it. We had a discussion in class saying how Biko is pretty BA. I can't see how anyone aposed him.
the bulk of this book is under chapter 15; where Steve Biko displays a quantum perception of the apartheid realities in his time. The court cross-examination is really illuminating.
Great book still relevant long after his death.
INSPERETIONAL
A difficult book to read, because one had to think carefully over so much said by Steve Biko. A pity that our country lost someone of his stature so young.
This was a beast - To enjoy this you really need the contet of Biko's life - which is NOT in here. Read it if you have already done your research on 70 South African history.
Great read!
I found this collection of writings an excellent analysis of race relations and the fight for civil rights.
Biko discusses among other things, his strategy to fight South African apartheid, what room there is for the non-oppressed (at home and abroad) in this fight, and the merit of certain short-term goals (hint: integration isn’t always good).
Always relevant, one cannot help but see numerous connections between the fight Biko describes, and the BLM movement or Israel-Palestine conflict.
A question I found interesting while reading: which of Biko’s principles extend to non-heritable discrimination (e.g. gender based)?
I think that this is a good book and will inspire the youth of South Africa. This book teaches the reader a lot about black consciousness.
