https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/296696.Bruchko
This was an interesting read about an American missionary seeking to use cultural analogies to share the Gospel with tribal people in Colombia/Venezuela....Why the low rating? My full review is here;http://christianmissionaryuk.blogspot...The book is free of bad language and sexual content. There is some violence/distressing scenes that may make it unsuitable for some readers. It is worth reading (especially for missionaries) if only for the purposes of personal reflection.
Bruce Olsen talks about how Jesus transformed his life as a teenager and the tug God gave him to become a missionary despite how crazy/fanatical everyone thought he was (including his own family).
After some time he was able to learn their language and lived among them as a brother.
Instead of doing what most missionaries had done (by trying to Americanize a culture), Bruce Olsen, called "Bruchko" by the Molitone Indians, allowed God to use their culture to bring Christ to their tribe (and let Him transform their lives).
One of the best books I've ever read!
This was a fascinating read of a man who did mission work in a very unconventional way. He went through so much physical discomfort to show people Jesus.
Probably my favorite biography I have ever read.Powerful!!This is someone who is living the cross (if I may make that statement without irony).The original title was For This Cross, I'll Kill You. I have been graced with a signed copy. (Woohoo!) One of my heroes.
Challenging. Exciting. Inspiring. Relevant. Cultural. Communicative. Application to be made. Helpful. Encouraging. Excellent.
An extremely moving book.
I picked up this book thinking it might be similar to a Jim Elliot or Nate Saint missionary story.But Bruce was a 19 year old boy who went about being a missionary in all the "wrong" ways.
The Motilones, a murderous tribe no less!The mission board denied him and he picked up his studies again in linguistics, thinking that God must have other plans.
Bruce went on to acquire a brother of the tribe, Bobby, and they were as David and Jonathan.
Then I saw Jesus...think I see, It's the Cross." I held up my hand and put my thumb across my forefinger.
This is the story of how God used a klutzy Norwegian boy from Minnesota to bring the transforming gospel of Christ to the hostile indigenous Motoline Indian tribe in the jungles of Colombia.
But there's also some humorous aspects to the story as well.For example, the time when Mr. Olson was new to the jungle and asked an Indian in a certain tribe why his people were rejecting the missionaries that were trying to work with them and do them good.
The Indian replied, "They won't sing our songs now.
How can God be in a square church?

Incredible picture of the gospel's reach in other cultures and understandings. This book inspired us to step beyond how we receive the good news and see how a Motilone Indian might process this gift. Olson is unrelenting in his pursuit of this people group. Through sickness and health, he waits on the Lord and trusts that God will make himself real to this people. Would love to read it again.
Eye opener. Real hard-core missionary adventure. This book was a significant motivator behind my choice to do missions work myself.
Wow! What an amazing story I liked that the 19 year old boy took responsibility and decided to go and do missionary work by himself and then successful in the end!
I read this book 3 times... better then watching Survivor or any multi-million reality TV show out there.
This is a really cool, inspiring, sometimes horrible and heartbreaking story! I wouldn't recommend it to younger kids under 12 probably because of some of the violence described. This is an amazing story though!
Bruce Olson left the comforts of North America at the age of nineteen to serve as a missionary to the murderous Motilone Barí Indians, an indigenous tribe residing in Colombia.
Taken captive by the very people he came to share the Good News with, he writes of how God allowed him to experience unbelievable hardships and pain, then used those awful experiences to soften the hearts of the tribe he was burdened for.
I highly recommend Bruchko to asipring missionaries, young or old, and to anyone looking for a biblical perspective on life, trials, evangelism, and how good we have it here in North America.
There was so much to do...so many things that Christ had called me to do.
So many others would have thought, "This is hopeless." But God used this man in a powerful way.
You feel the emotions while reading this; the struggle of a man to remember his calling.It's amazing to me how Bruce was "alone" from the beginning.
Personally, I didn't feel that a right thing to do.
Besides that, I whole-heartedly commend this book.Definitely plan on reading this again.
A book that will convict the heart and make you look at how you can serve God more.
A surprising autobiography about a 19-year-old who, with $70 in his pocket, decides to become a missionary to Indian tribes in South America.
The tribes, he discovers, are suffering from disease and a culturally bound depression.
And being primarily hunter/gatherers, the tribes are constantly struggling to attain food.
Olson introduces change in a culturally sensitive way.
For example, he introduces antibiotics by giving a bottle to the witchdoctor.
A decade later, the witchdoctors of the tribe have become medical practitioners.Olson introduces Christianity in a similar way, suggesting it as an answer to the tribe's belief that it has angered God and is hence eternally distant.
But nothing I have ever experienced can compare to what young Bruce Olson went through on his journey to share Jesus with the Motilone.
This is not a tale of someone trying to steal away a people's traditional way of life; no, it is a breathtaking glimpse into what God can do when we let Him lead.The Motilones learn about Jesus, but they learn in ways that honor their traditions, their history and their way of life.
This is a life-changing book.
Not one that promises you riches or fame or The Secret; this book will change your life because it is a simple story of one young man who followed his call.
Who takes off as a teenager and lives in the jungles of South America without knowing the language, without a support system and without money? Apparently, Bruce Olson. This is the amazing story of God in the life of someone who is sold out to following Jesus.Need to be reminded what trust looks like? Want to be challenged in your level of comfort and contentment? Willing to have to suspend your credulity for a little while? Read Brushko. You can't help but want to trust God more than you do now.Already recommending it to those around me.
I really enjoyed this book. Im going on a voluteer trip to Costa Rica to build schools in February and the team leader had everyone read this book in preperation for the trip. Its very interesting to see someone that young drop everything and fly to South America to live with the Motilone Indians. I really liked the style of writing that Bruce Olsen used and how he gave a background of his life. Although I was required to read this book, I would definetly read it again and reccomend this book to anyone interested in adventure.
I'm not quite sure how to review this book. I feel no words justify it! This has to be the best missionary story I've ever read! Everything was amazing! There was a situation in which when he was translating the bible in the native language that I normally would not have agreed with but I understand the language barrier and how he did what he felt God would have him to do! I will definitely be reading this book again!
One of the best-told and most inspiring missionary stories out there.
Not what missionary work is like today, but still an adventurous story of what risks people took to share the gospel. I loved this!
Best of the "missionary story" genre, in my opinion. Just a fantastic, challenging story.
Amazing! Inspiring! Motivating!
It's an amazing book that brought me to tears!!
At times depressing and scary but also capable of getting you out of your own head. Really good story and teaches many valuable lessons.
This book is a true story of a 19 year old boy who is inspired by God to minister to the Motilone Indians in South America.
While working for the government in the Ministry of Health and studying at the university, he felt the Motilone Indians were who God wanted him to minister to.
Because of his years of dedication and work, Bruce has built facilities and trained people to work in 18 health centers, 42 bilingual schools, 22 agricultural centers, and 11 trading posts, which really are co-operatives.
"There is a fine line between faith and foolhardiness."Janice Franzen wrote that in the epilogue of Bruchko, and I think it's a fitting description of Bruce Olson's ministry.As I read this book, I couldn't help but compare and contrast it in my mind to Brother Andrew's book, "God's Smuggler." Despite very different experiences, these two missionaries seem to have very similar attitudes toward God's provision and direction.
But I can't help but wonder if there was an easier way for Bruce.
Simply walking into the jungle with little to no plan doesn't seem very smart.Perhaps it's my flesh that causes me think such things.Regardless, God has certainly used Bruce to reach people that had never been reached.
