https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18849438-patchwork-a-story-of-the-plain-people
This book was written in 1920. I chose to read "The Plain People" because I wanted learn about Dunkards. My Great Great Grandfather was a Dunkard preacher. It was an easy read and not very exciting, but it did give me a glimpse into the life of Plain People.
'Patchwork: A Story of the Plain People' by Anna Blamer Myers is an enchanting story of a ten year girl in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania.
Her love of nature connects later with her decision of whether or not to be plain when she grows up.Phoebe is so charming, intelligent and inquisitive.
This story tells of how Phoebe took initiative to get a mother, how she managed to get to Philadelphia.
It is a coming of age story in the sense of growing up and reaching maturity and deciding what is best for her.I enjoyed this book very much and learned about the Dunkards doctrines and way of life.
Phoebe was brought up as one of the Plain People - they seem to be not Amish but some other religious persusion that dresses plainly. She grows up longing to see the world, but finds out it isn't as great out in the world as she thought it would be, comes back home as a school teacher.Copyright is 1920 and it takes place in Lancaster County PA, so maybe this is either about the Amish or about what was perceived as Amish living at the time. Probably a typical 1920 era romance novel.Free Kindle download
Fame and FortuneI gave this book about the "Plain People" 5 stars,because it is a precious story of love, heroic military servitude, Phoebe's learning the importance of simple life vs. a famed life of singing and so much more! It is a story that shows true love in many shapes and forms and the reality that quality time, lifelong friendships and constant showing of love is most important to those we hold dear to our hearts.
Sweet old-fashioned romanceI loved the quaint way with words-- from 1920, and the simplicity of life. The characters are not Quakers, but Pennsylvania Dutch, Brethren. Very well written.
Touching endingI liked the book but had a hard time following the story sometimes. it had very tender moments and I enjoyed the trip Phoebe took to realize what is really important in life.
Great book....I have to say that this story made me laugh, made me cry, made me very happy that I read it. The author, Anna Balmer Myers, did a outstanding job of telling this story.
HoodWonderful, great love story, to l many words for review. It was just a good book, would recommend to a friend
Very educational about the plain people, though sometimes the storylines dragged. not really abou the Amish
Pretty good, clean book. I great look into the life of the "Plain People" Not a thriller by any means but still a great story.
Love it!If you are looking for a delightful tale to read, you will enjoy thus. It is a wonderful tale of childhood and live.
Te story of plain people or actually the story of upgrowing wonderful Phoebe!A story told(written) in a glad and optimistic way!The main character ,Phoebe being most of the time so glad and full of happiness in her environment(community) ,but also far away in the strange and crowded city!overall reading with a bigsmile and really such a peasure to rrading from thne very beggining up till the end!A book which has a lot of value especial in christian way!
for me worth a 4.5star(the next book amanda .I am going to read as well and iam sure it will be as good as this one)
