https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15784909-this-girl
She managed to take a story that we love and retell it from the hero’s POV while still making every single word of it feel new, fresh and powerful.Yes, technically it’s a retelling of Slammed from Will’s POV but there is SO much more.
Not one word of it felt repetitive.Reading this book was like taking a beautiful walk down memory lane.
That tell a story that is so beautiful, real, original, and powerful that it leaves a mark on my heart that I know will be there for ever.This book did that.Soul deep, guys.Just, butterflying perfect.6 huge stars.
5+++++ BUTTERFLYING AMAZING STARS. ❤ COLLEEN.HOOVER.NEVER.DISAPPOINTS. And once again, she has proven this statement right. This Girl was the perfect final chapter to a magnificent series that will forever reside on my all time favorites shelf. This story was so beautifully written that I almost wanted to highlight the entire book. And well, reading the story from Will's POV surely provided a lot of *swoon* and *sigh* worthy moments...But I'll go ahead and reveal it to you anyway... This Girl  i
Every story has two sides and in this final part of the series, we finally hear Will's side of the story...Will --Layken --Let me tell you something about this book...This book is the kind of book that will make you laugh,It will make you cry,It will make you swoon,It will make your heart skip a beat,It's the kind of book that will stay with you forever.This book made me rememberWhy I love reading so much.Spending time with all these special and unique charactersMade me forget about the rest of the world for a while.It made me happy to just be in this own private world.A world filled with two people in love like Will and Lake,With inspiring mothers like Julia,With supportive best friends like Eddie and Gavin,With amazing kids like Caulder and Kell,A world where all of them try to make the best out of the life they're given.There are so many things I'll forever remember about this series;The beautiful slams,The inspiring music of The Avett Brothers,The funny Suck and Sweet time-moments,Kell and his backwards talking.
I love Slammed and Point of Retreat. Seriously loved them... but this, this was something else entirely. Love is not a strong enough word about how I feel about this book! Colleen Hoover’s writing is beautiful, magical, wonderful. This was essentially Slammed, from Will Cooper’s perspective, but it was so much more than that! Will and Lake are (view spoiler)[on their honeymoon (hide spoiler)] and talking about the past... She is asking him questions and we are getting to see all of our favorite
I love Slammed and Point of Retreat.
If you haven't read Slammed or Point of Retreat, you should do that RIGHT NOW!
I may just spend it gushing about all things Will Cooper and tell you how much I loved this book, but thats okay, right?
She doesn't deserve to be kissed by anyone other than me.“Layken Cooper, I love you.
(hide spoiler)]This series is a MUST READ in my book!
I know this wasn’t so much a review, more like an excited rant, but Colleen Hoover’s books do this to me!
This book deserves more than 5 stars...Read it and love it!
Every time I read Colleen Hoover's books, I am left speechless, emotionally attached, and not wanting to let go.
So even though it was bittersweet to say goodbye, I couldn't be happier with how Colleen has ended Will and Lake's story.
It left me with, forgive the pun, "butterflies" and happy tears.I can never get enough of Will Cooper, and reading this book has only made me fall even harder for the man.
It makes me so darn happy, and it closes the series perfectly.I cannot thank Colleen enough for making this story come to life.
She is the Wonder Woman of the book world, and for many years to come!
This review is very longSo long, in fact, that your attention spanMay be stretched to its very limitsBut that’s okay. This GirlThis coupleAnd their Love Story.... ....took my breath away!!! ----------------------------------------------------------Hello Readers,So what do I tell you about this book?Well, let me start with a story....A girl once moved into a new town, far, far away from where she used to live.Along with her were her mother and her little brother.This girl was tough.Resilient.Tho
----------------------------------------------------------Hello Readers,So what do I tell you about this book?Well, let me start with a story....A girl once moved into a new town, far, far away from where she used to live.Along with her were her mother and her little brother.This girl was tough.Resilient.Though she had lost her mentor, her guide, her hero, all wrapped up in one and only....
When she cries, her eyes turn a glossy, deep shade of blue.I used to tell her they were the exact same color as the ocean.
Ok, I am not gonna write slam, I seriously don’t want to show my super talents haha.I loved this book, yes, I did so why am I not giving it 5 stars?
This Girl tells us the story of Will & Lake, just as Slammed but this time Will is the one telling us their love story.Will, you are soooo perfect that I had to roll my eyes so many times it hurt.
I mean, I like reading about perfect characters but sometimes authors don’t keep them real and that’s what I felt while reading this.
It's one thing if maybe it was a novella telling some slightly different perspective points but still offering new insights, or if it were a short story capturing a single segment in time - which were both alternatives Hoover could've perused if she wanted to continue with Will's perspective point, I think.
This didn't feel like a full enough story to be retold in the way it was and it was just a waste of time having to backtrack through all of that just to cherry pick whatever new experiences Will had to offer in the narrative.
What did you think?
I know this book gonna rock the world!
Especially my life.My reactions when i saw 'SLAMMED, #3'My completely absurd reactions to those who hate SLAMMED or gonna give shit to Slammed #3I bet all of you wanna avoid the last gif 11/7/2012 The synopsis is gone O: I wanted this 3rd book to be a continuation of their sweet relationship 27th March 2013  THE COVER!
This Girl is mainly telling you the stories of Will POV during Slammed (Because Slammed was 100% Lake POV) This girl is more and less Will POV during Slammed.
Belief that objects have souls, intelligence, feelings, and are able to communicate.My objectphilic nature towards This Girl stems from the fact I believe that this book without a doubt does have a soul.
Okay, so maybe objectophilia is a bit of an overkill, but it is completely safe to say that I have developed an intense fixation, a "pronounced emotional desire and strong feelings of love" for this amazing series.
Colleen Hoover did so much more than just retell a story.
Colleen Hoover gives us a piece of her heart with every book she writes, every sentence...every word.
4.5 ★'sThis girl got schooled by a boy who wasn't thirty kinds of mean.
This boy fell hard for this beautiful girl, Holy hell, this girl who's not a dream anymore.
This boy and this girl get to have their final piece of the puzzle.★ ~ ☆ ~ ★ ~ ☆ ~ ★ ~ ☆ ~ ★ ~ ☆ ~ ★ ~ ☆ ~ ★ ~ ☆   My Will    My Sweet:  The retelling of the story, mostly from Slammed, from Will's POV.
My Suck:  The retelling of the story that you already know.
My Sweet:  Going through all the emotional drama again but hearing all
4.5 ★'sThis girl got schooled by a boy who wasn't thirty kinds of mean.
The retelling of the story, mostly from Slammed, from Will's POV.
Going through all the emotional drama in bits and pieces.
Getting to read about Will and Lake on their honeymoon.
Getting to read about Will and Lake on their honeymoon in a non adult book.
Getting an epilogue for the end of a series!
You definitely won't understand this if you haven't read at least the first book in the series.
If you've already read Slammed and Point of Retreat, you won't want to miss this.
4 Sweet stars!   “I want to be your soulmate, even if I don't believe in them.”  Short review this time.  This Girl  begins with Lake and Will on their honeymoon. Lake and Will are taking a, um, breather, and Will begins to tell Lake the story of how he met her. Before long it turns into his perspective of their entire story.It's been so damn long since I first read Slammed, it was one of the first new adult type books I had ever read and there's a reason it's a classic. So reading this book wa
Before long it turns into his perspective of their entire story.It's been so damn long since I first read Slammed, it was one of the first new adult type books I had ever read and there's a reason it's a classic.
So reading this book was kind of like reading Slammed all over again, because I didn't actually remember much about Lake and Will after all this time.
She doesn't deserve to be kissed by anyone other than me.”  There's really not much more to say, the majority of us know Lake and Will's story, and for a retelling CoHo did an amazing job.
3 STARS  We're born into the worldAs just one small piece to the puzzleThat makes up an entire life.It's up to us throughout our years,to find all the pieces that fit.The pieces that connect who we areTo who we wereTo who we'll one day be. No snazzy gifs or pictures, I feel bad enough writing this.Before I get pitchforked and stoned to death I have to explain my love and faith in Colleen Hoover. I LOVE this woman. If you've read her blog posts, her books, her poetry, how can you not?! Seriously
I'm going to forget that ever went through this lovely boy's head because, seriously why are you asking me to hate you, Will?What I loved about this book are the ones that were already in Slammed (Layken's 'Schooled' poem still left me a bawling mess), the break up scene with Vaughn, the fact that I got to near-buddy read this with nearly everyone in my feed and every damn scene Julia was in right to that last, gutting star.
MY REVIEW IN THE FORM OF A SLAM ~ THIS GIRL _______________________________________I read a book last year, A book about  love It was heartbreakingly, beautifully, butterflyingly above and beyondWhen I read  I got schooled,  I was completely flooredI’d never heard anything like it beforeI wanted more In  Slammed  she felt rejectedBut by  Point of Retreat  it was beyond what I expectedI could have sworn that was the end of the score,Until  this girl  Colleen Hoover decided to write some moreIt ma
MY REVIEW IN THE FORM OF A SLAM ~ THIS GIRL _______________________________________I read a book last year, A book about 
A book through a boys eyes about a past full of strifeHe totally, completely and absolutely stole my heart 
us,At times they confide us, But in the end they provide us With 
everydayMy suck for the day is that the story is over My sweet is that I love the authorSo now my sweets is not the time for sleepNow I am done foolingSo you now you can start 
Time for you to start 
She doesn't deserve to be kissed by anyone other than me.""I dreamt about this girl last night.Wow. This girl.This girl completely shatters the window to my soul and crawls inside." See what I mean?He is perfect.......in every stinkin’ way.He had me swooning in my seat the entire time reading This Girl.And OMG the love you can feel radiating off the pages between Will and Lake is purely magical.They have suffered so much loss in their lives, so to see them finally in a beautiful place made my heart happy.
Like a butterfly kissing a Lake ❤The best part of falling in love with Will and Lake's story was .....FALLING IN LOVE AGAIN....
All over again and again in a dreamy re-telling of all the moments we fell in love with in the first book ❤ "Every minute I was around you, I just fell harder and harder in crush with you " ~Lake That Almost Obliterated GnomeThe Avett Brothers A soulmate knows the words to your favorite song when you forget the words❤❤Then of course the SLAMMED poetry.
A million butterflying stars !!!!!!❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤MY SWEET : The best part of This Girl Slammed book 3 ???
Check out my blogs for more reviews and book stuff: http://ramblingsofabookworm3.blogspot...http://ramblings-of-a-bookworm.tumblr...Another book !!!More LakeMore Will !!!!No Retreat !!!
I have mixed feeling about this. It's not quite what I expected it to be. I found it much too similar to Slammed. There was nothing exciting, because I already knew what's coming up. As much as I loved Slammed, This Girl was just boring. I actually skimmed some parts because it's too repetitive. Where is the new material??
This Book is BEYOND Amazing!It warmed my SOUL…It brought Tears to my eyes….Even as I look at these beautiful quotes from this book, it brings out emotions which no book has ever brought out for me. Its not often that we come across love stories which touch us in such a way that it will Forever be engraved in our minds and hearts and this is without a doubt one of them... “If I took every romantic poem, every book, every song, and every movie I've ever read, heard or seen and extracted the breath
“If I took every romantic poem, every book, every song, and every movie I've ever read, heard or seen and extracted the breathtaking moments, somehow bottling them up, they would pale in comparison to this moment.
It's every single emotion I've ever felt balled up into an intense urge to grab hold of her and never let go.”“I want her to wait for me.
If I don't stop her from walking away right now, I'll regret it for the rest of my life.”We stand there, neither one of us speaking or moving, for several minutes.
I needed this book. I needed to get back to will and lake. I really needed to get back to will. This was seriously the most perfect time for me to read this. And those last few chapters.... Perfect.
Now hear Will’s.Colleen Hoover’s New York Times bestselling Slammed series has brought countless readers to their knees with a whirlwind of love, passion, and heartache.
Layken and Will’s love has managed to withstand the toughest of circumstances and the young lovers, now married, are beginning to feel safe and secure in their union.
Their future rests on how well they deal with the past in this final installment of the beloved Slammed series.WOOHOOOO, can't freaking wait!!!
Will Cooper, how I will devour you really soon!
I. LOVE.
I can't freaking wait to read this baby!
I just can't wait for another book.
It's hard to even know what to write about this book. I loved it. I loved every single page, every single word. This Girl is so much more than just Slammed from Will's perspective. While I loved reliving some of my most cherished scenes through Will's eyes, I think I loved the "new" stuff even more. It really seemed to fill in all the blanks, even some "blanks" that I didn't realize were there. We got to see some of what Will went through before he met Lake, how he fell in love with her, and mu
It's hard to even know what to write about this book.
I loved it.
I loved every single page, every single word.
This Girl is so much more than just Slammed from Will's perspective.
We got to see some of what Will went through before he met Lake, how he fell in love with her, and much to my ecstatic surprise, a look into their future.
I wish I could explain just how perfect, just how magical, this book was for me.
I read for books like this one, as rare as they are.
This Girl was the perfect conclusion.
2.5 starsOkay, look. Colleen Hoover is one of my all-time favorite authors. Four of her books are on my favorites shelf and I've never rated a book of hers below 4 stars before I read Point of Retreat in December 2016. Point of Retreat, book 2 in the Slammed trilogy, was a 2 star read. Look like this book has joined it, too. However, I did really enjoy book 1, Slammed, which I read around a year and a half ago. Probably if I had read it now, I wouldn't enjoy it as much. “You, baby girl. You’re m
Four of her books are on my favorites shelf and I've never rated a book of hers below 4 stars before I read Point of Retreat in December 2016.
Point of Retreat, book 2 in the Slammed trilogy, was a 2 star read.
However, I did really enjoy book 1, Slammed, which I read around a year and a half ago.
Anyway, in Point of Retreat, I hated both Will and Layken.
This Girl is Slammed in Will's POV; it's actually Will telling Layken during their honeymoon all his thoughts and feelings during the events of Slammed.
Annoying, cringey, and immature.
Check totallybooked for a teaser from THIS GIRL and a chance to win an Ebook copy and a signed Paperback Copy of This Girl http://totallybookedblog.com/2013/04/...Our thoughts by Jenny & GitteThis is a review with a difference so we hope you’ll bear with us.We were going to discuss the contents of this book but scrapped that idea because…well, it’s Colleen Hoover so you know it’s well written. Most of you already know Will and Layken and all the other characters from the Slammed Series (if
Most of you already know Will and Layken and all the other characters from the Slammed Series (if you don’t then pick this series up now!) so you know you’re going to love them and you know from this authors writing style that this book is going to have heart….and lots of it.And let’s face it, we know you guys would rather read the book for yourselves than have us tell you about it.So instead, we’re going to talk about what this book meant to us.We loved Slammed and Point of Retreat with all our hearts.
That special feeling you get when you’ve just experienced a story so beautiful, characters so enchanting and writing so magical that you feel it deep down in your bones and you know, without a doubt, it’s going to stay with you forever.There are moments in life you can recall in a heartbeat.
Colleen Hoover has created a beautiful story with Will and Layken and told it so effortlessly.
except that maybe he is just too perfect!!!!!In this book, Will is recounting his feelings and experiences to Lake on their honeymoon; his feelings about his parents and their death, his breakup with Vaughn, as well as their meeting, and all of the times they shared together.
I also loved sharing a bit of the honeymoon moments with them as well (even though I wished it were me!!!).To me, this was the perfect epilogue for the Slammed Series.
This Girl was superb conclusion to this amazing series and I loved it all!My Will and Lake:SPOILER-FREE REVIEWI am going to be short and sweet.
This Girl reminded me of watching bonus materials on DVD of my favourite movie - you know what is about to happen, you know how it is going to end but you just cannot get enough and you want more, you want deeper insight into the story and characters.
I love them all and I am sure I will be coming back to their story.Anyway, I cannot write much without giving spoilers.
THERE AREN’T ENOUGH STARS FOR THIS BOOK!!! Colleen Hoover is a LITERARY GENIUS! This Girl is Slammed && Point of Retreat in Will Cooper’s point of view.  OHmahGAWD right????? So let me say, I was expecting a play-by-play of Slammed/PoR – just in Will’s POV.  PLEASANTLY SURPRISED  that it wasn’t!!!! Will had his own story, and added his own flair to their lives and how he endured certain situations. Will and Lake have become one of my  MOST FAVORITE  literary couples. Anyways – long and b
THERE AREN’T ENOUGH STARS FOR THIS BOOK!!!
Colleen Hoover is a LITERARY GENIUS!
This Girl is Slammed && Point of Retreat in Will Cooper’s point of view.
So let me say, I was expecting a play-by-play of Slammed/PoR – just in Will’s POV.
Will had his own story, and added his own flair to their lives and how he endured certain situations.
literary couples.
Anyways – long and beautiful story short, I LOVED IT!!!~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~.~
Layken Cohen
Will is the ultimate swoon-worthy boyfriend, and Layken isn’t the idiot girlfriend that are in most books these days!!
This book was butterflying beautiful. So much feels with the epilogue <3. I loved it, and Will's final piece made me cry, it was really touching and the perfect ending for the series. Really, these are books that give you lessons of life and that teach you that you have TO LIVE. I'll never forget the things that make this series special, such as:- The Sweet and Suck of the day.- The Butterfly curse word.- Carving Pumpkins.- Julia's stars.And that doesn't cover it. I fully recommend this series to anyone, for each book is full of life lessons <3.
~~~~~5*I BUTTERFLY YOU* Stars~~~~~I met a girl.A beautiful girlAnd I fell for her. The final chapter of Will and Lake. I LOVED "This Girl" so, so much! Will was absofreakinglutely PERFECT, AMAZING, WONDERFUL, SWEET, LOYAL, AWESOME, FABULOUS, KIND, PROTECTIVE, and LOVING...I could go on and on...I'm in CRUSH :)My sweet: reading this book *sigh*My suck: the book series is over *sigh*“I got schooled this yearbyaboy.A boy that I'm seriously, deeply, madly, incredibly, and undeniably in love with.An
"You're the greatest thing that's ever happened to my life.""I love you, Will Cooper, and I love you, Layken Cooper.""THIS GIRL completely shatters the window to my soul and crawls inside."
She was the fusion.The glueThe cement that bound all my piecestogether.The piece that seals my puzzle.The piece that completes my life.The element that makes me who I am.Who I was.Who I'll one day be.You, baby girl.You're my final piece.
I loved the bejebus out of it.I just can't stomach that there are people out there who might never find someone who makes them feel like Will makes Layken feel and vice versa.
Luckily, I'm one of those people who've already found their love of their life and I really can confirm that this kind love is not only found in books.
Fight with tooth and nail to make them see that what you have is worth all the oxygen you're breathing.This love Layken and Will have is every kind of truthful.
It's the best realistic fiction, romance series I've ever read for two reasons.
