https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1490695.A_City_of_Bells
“He was being difficult and knew it…in pity for his family he decided to go and stay with his grandfather, Canon Fordyce of Torminster, and relieve them of his presence.”Torminster, a small, rather somnolent cathedral town, “could hardly be said to belong to the contemporary world at all” and Canon Fordyce is definitely not of this world, given to sudden whims like adopting orphans and befriending reclusive poets.
He may, as life goes on, modify his beliefs, but he must never modify them on the side of destruction..."But before you get the idea that she's a sober, dogmatic writer of seriousness, here's a bit of her speciality, children:Hugh Anthony, age about 8, speaking to the gardener:"Bates, if I was to pour all the water over one plant in a flowerbed, would it run along underneath the ground and make all the others wet, too?""No, sir, it wouldn't.
Maybe they're fond of a bit of company."Hugh Anthony is described as being a vibrating question mark in his appearance, by the way.And I can't do justice to Henrietta, age 10, so I won't even try.
When Jocelyn Irvin goes to stay in the sleepy cathedral town of Torminster with his grandparents, Canon and Mrs. Fordyce, and his young cousins Hugh Anthony and Henrietta, he is only seeking peace and quiet.
From the orphaned Henrietta with her artist’s sensitivity and her capacity for joy, to Hugh Anthony’s penchant for mischief; from Grandfather’s selflessness to Grandmother’s tart commonsense practicality; from Felicity’s glowing warmth to Jocelyn’s reserve and dogged determination, I love them all.
Goudge writes in a gentle, soothing voice about a time that, even in 1936, seemed distant and innocent.
These are characters whose motivations are always for something, never against; these are men and women whose basic focus is, "How can I best serve the people I love?"For that reason, and almost only for that reason, this is a heartily recommended book.
They are also quite deftly interwoven into the story, such that the book wouldn't be the same or even as good without them.
Modern writers of Christian fiction could take a lesson from Miss Goudge!
It is not surprising that her imaginary cathedral city, Torminster, with its houses, gardens, cathedral and church bells, and the surrounding countryside, is so realistic.
Torminster is not an entirely accurate picture of Wells in Somerset, where I was born and spent the first eleven years of my life, but I think it is an accurate picture of a small west-country cathedral city in those safe motorless days.”The characters who have their ‘entrances and exits’ are as varied and fascinating as the city of bells, which has a distinct personality.
To Henrietta’s delight, from then on she wears ‘periwinkle blue or rose pink for every day and white on Sundays’.
There is always a redemptive ending that comes about through the efforts of love of a godly person, usually more than one.I relate to the description of Jocelyn Irvin, who opened the book shop: "His bent of mind was a scholarly one and his outlook on life that of an artist.
He had it in him to be a valuable friend both to creators blinded by the sweat of their own effort and to the wistful multitude who need an interpreter in the courts of the spirit."I also relate to the description of Felicity, Jocelyn's fiancee: "Inside her was a little room and it was empty and cold.
Such a sweet and gentle book. it is a beautiful thing when a sensitive and creative child is brought up in a steady, encouraging serene atmosphere. And it's also wonderful to read about a melancholy gentle man find his place in life after the chaos of war. I found myself relating so much to Capt. Jocelyn and Henrietta that it brought tears to my eyes at times. Goudge has hopeful insights into people and her belief in the goodness of humanity and God makes this a refreshing read.
I got a new issue copy of this book that has a very tasteful cover so I didn't realise that there was a love story threading through the story of a man who is lost and finds a niche for himself.
It's a sweet little book that I needed as antidote, not realising that I had previously read another book of this author- "Green Dolphin Country" which I found in a thrift shop, a forgotten classic indeed.
I loved it and am glad that I took the chance on this book, since some of the ones I've read lately have not met expectations.
The city of the title is Torminster in which a young man, Jocyln Irwin, whose army career is ended during the Boer War by a leg injury, decides to open a bookstore.
"A bookseller," said Grandfather, "is the link between mind and mind, the feeder of the hungry, very often the binder of wounds.
and there come into him other minds, hungry for beauty, for knowledge, for truth, for love, and to the best of his ability he satisfies them all.
Jocyln falls in love with the house he was living in and sees in it a perfect place for his bookstore.
A young man named Jocelyn comes to the city of Torminster to stay with his grandparents after his army career ends due to an injury received in the Boer war.
The grandparents are bringing up one of their grandsons, and also a girl from an orphanage they have adopted, named Henrietta.Jocelyn, falls in love with a young actress from London, and moves into the house with the green door.
He gets hold of some papers of Gabriel Ferrante, and begins editing them and turning their poetry into a play.
This is one of my favourite books of all time, although that could be said of any of Elizabeth Goudge's books that I have listed here. It is so beautifully written harkening back to a time that never really existed (oh how I wish it did). I read it and re-read it simply because doing so makes me happy, makes me yearn to be a better person.
Just a few samples.On being a bookseller:"It is the friendliest vocation in the world," he announced."Why?" asked Jocelyn...A bookseller," said Grandfather, is the link between mind and mind, the feeder of the hungry, very often the binder up of wounds.
There he sits, your bookseller, surrounded by a thousand minds all done up neatly in cardboard cases; beautiful minds, courageous minds, strong minds, wise minds, all sorts and conditions.
No one ever does anything in this world until they go a little mad."I really loved this book and I cannot wait to read The sister of the Angels at Christmas!
I always enjoy Elizabeth Goudge books, but this one was special for some reason.
I hope they will continue the stories of at least some of the characters in this one.
Jocelyn, a young man, wounded in the war, goes to visit his grandfather who is a canon at the Torminster cathedral.
When Jocelyn decides to stay, open a bookshop and rent a house, he gets caught up in the mystery of Gabriel, the former resident of the house.
I enjoyed the story very much and am anxious to read the rest of the trilogy.
This is not my favorite Gouge book, but it had the same effect as her others on me. I leave the hustle and bustle of modern day and return to a time of a slower pace and space for reflection. "No man, Jocelyn argued, is quite the same person to each of his friends, one will out one quality, one another". Books are my friends. I like many different kinds, but Elizabeth Goudge will always be a favorite author to me when I take the time to pause and savor what she has to say.
This book was far different than I expected and it’s a strange tale, in some ways, but I loved it. The writing is wonderful, so beautifully capturing the imaginative souls who live in the world and are deeply moved by beauty. I suddenly realized what the ending would be in a flash of insight but it didn’t diminish the joy of it. Now if only I could find a copy to own.
I’ve loved Goudge’s books for a while now. This one wasn’t as good as her others have been. I found it hard to get into and relish. It was still a good book, just not the great that’s I’m used to from dear Elizabeth.
Who does not love an Elizabeth Goudge and A City of Bells has all the elements of her writing we love to enjoy. There is a quality to her characters and storytelling that is dreamlike and other worldly. (My edition is an old Hodder paperback)
3.5 Not for everyone, but i found this story of a cathedral city in England to be absolutely charming.
I really enjoyed this book! I can't wait to read another book by Goudge
Not Goudge's best but still a nice way to spend a cozy winter afternoon.
When Jocelyn Irvin goes to stay in the sleepy cathedral town of Torminster with his grandparents, Canon and Mrs. Fordyce, and his young cousins Hugh Anthony and Henrietta, he is only seeking peace and quiet.
From the orphaned Henrietta with her artist’s sensitivity and her capacity for joy, to Hugh Anthony’s penchant for mischief; from Grandfather’s selflessness to Grandmother’s tart commonsense practicality; from Felicity’s glowing warmth to Jocelyn’s reserve and dogged determination, I love them all.
A sweet if somewhat predictable story, but one that reflects the author's weighty thoughts on life and art - in particular, the value of books:"In my experience when people begin to read, they go on.
but if you destroy God you do not solve your problem but merely leave yourself alone with it."and this gem - the value of reading poetry with children:"From the delight of forming letters into words Henrietta went on to the intoxication of forming words into sentences and here her instinct was unerring.
Miss Lavendar, unaware how early a feeling for poetry awakes in children, was astonished at Henrietta's sensitive ear.
I've wanted to move to this captivating village, and work in its entrancing bookshop, ever since high school. The next best thing is re-reading this beloved book on a regular basis. The Blue Hills, is a wonderful companion to it.
She manages to write a life-affirming sort of Pilgrim's Progress, as many of her characters are suffering from different kinds of loss--orphans, the physically and emotionally wounded, the misfits, the bereft, even the artists of different kinds (actors, writers, musicians, mystics) who are misfits in the workaday world and suffer thereby.Like her own Miss Montague in The Dean's Watch, Goudge manages to communicate to the reader that she understands us, perhaps better than anyone else possibly could, and reaffirms us; we come away from this book feeling very fine folks indeed.
For me, the value of it lies mostly in the insight into the characters of Gouge's Henrietta's House, one of my all-time favourite children's books.
The story is entertaining enough, in a mild sort of way, and the overwhelming presence of Christianity is, for me, rather fascinating in a historical, or even anthropological way.
There is a great deal too much flowery description of the countryside (which I skipped) and the Christian moral parts drag monumentally, except in flashes where you can see how faith makes Grandfather the man he is.
Hmm. Time to read Henrietta's House again now, I think.
Elizabeth Goudge describes characters without necessarily giving them eye color.
Her descriptive skills shine in her painting scene's with her words, especially the natural elements of a scene, like shreds of clouds, or golden candlelight, or a garden riotously splashed with color and fragrance.This particular book concerns a soldier, wounded during WWI, and his search for peace and purpose.
An orphan, an actress, a humbly wise grandfather, and a mysterious and tragic poet live according to their particular characters and bring about wholeness for all the players.This is a feel-good book with gems of wisdom hidden throughout the chapters.Enjoy!
I had all sorts of quotes, it was a great review:Read it if you are particularly fond of: Anglican literature (Trollope, Howatch); florid writing with apple-trees and golden sunshine and hollyhocks on every page; literary references (Shakespeare, Shelley, Byron, Melville, Wordsworth, the Bible, etc.
etc.); stories involving bookstores.And that may not be enough if you can't stand the style, a mixture of Gene Stratton-Porter's Girl of the Limberlost and Taylor Caldwell and Susan Howatch, but also reminiscent of Louisa May Alcott.Perhaps some day I'll re-write the stupid review; probably not.
The scenes with Grandfather, Henrietta, and especially Hugh Anthony were enchanting, but Jocelyn was a little bland for a main character, and Felicity, while appealing, was never fully drawn.
I would have liked more about the play within the novel (The Minstrel) since it apparently told us so much about Ferranti, the author, whom we never really get to know.
And so disappointing not to see what his reaction is to the stunning news Jocelyn gives him!Still, some beautiful poetic contemplative descriptions of Torminster--that's Wells, isn't it?
And I appreciate novels in which faith is important--not necessarily religion--there's a difference.
Elizabeth Goudge is probably my favorite author next to Charlotte Brontë and Jane Austen.
Her Damerosehay trilogy and The Deans's Watch are masterpieces of meaningful fiction.
But this book felt a little "off." Jocelyn Irvin comes home from the Boer War with a bum leg and in order to enjoy peace and quiet goes to visit his grandfather in the city of Torminster.
He ends up staying there and opening up a bookshop.
This novel (like Goudge's "Middle Window") was a surprising disappointment, since most of her books are outstanding studies in human nature and the need for faith.

