https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25205422-who-do-you-love
It has been several years since I've read a Jennifer Weiner book, and I would normally categorize her books as fluffy chick lit.
Rachel has a heart condition that meant she spent a lot of time in the hospital growing up, and Andy happens to be in the ER one night because of an arm injury.
And although they have a very deep love for each other, they are very different personalities, proving that love isn't easy, and things don't always work out how you envision them.There were a lot of times throughout this book where I was angry or frustrated at things both Andy and Rachel did.
It's described as an "unforgettable story about true love, real life, and second chances..." "Rachel Blum and Andy Landis are just eight years old when they meet one night in an ER waiting room.
Andy grows up poor in Philadelphia with a single mom and a rare talent for running.Yet, over the next three decades, Andy and Rachel will meet again and again—linked by chance, history, and the memory of the first time they met, a night that changed the course of both of their lives.A sweeping, warmhearted, and intimate tale, this is an extraordinary novel about the passage of time, the way people change and change each other, and how the measure of a life is who you love."______________________*clutches heart* I WANT THIS BOOK!!!
“You have my heart.” Who What Do You I Love? This book! I couldn't put it down.There were times I was happy, giddy and excited for Andy and Rachel. But there were other times, I was really upset and disappointed with the choices they made. Isn't that life though? I think that’s one of the reasons why I enjoyed this so much - it felt genuine. Being riddled with the ups-and-downs that any relationship goes through, lent the story an honest quality. What I adored most of all was that through every
“You have my heart.”
Who What Do You I Love?
This book!
I couldn't put it down.There were times I was happy, giddy and excited for Andy and Rachel.
But there were other times, I was really upset and disappointed with the choices they made.
Isn't that life though?
I think that’s one of the reasons why I enjoyed this so much - it felt genuine.
Being riddled with the ups-and-downs that any relationship goes through, lent the story an honest quality.
What I adored most of all was that through everything, they kept finding their way back to one another.
I wanted more Andy and Rachel.
Andy and Rachel meet when they are 8 years old.
They are both in the hospital; Andy for a broken arm and Rachel for a heart defect.
Andy is an accomplished runner and Rachel keeps up with his public life, but never contacts him.
Andy thinks of Rachel and how easy it was to be with her and talk to her.
It's whimsical when they think of each other as their lives have taken different paths.
Isn't that the beauty of reading when you get immersed into the lives of the characters?
A very satisfying read <3
★★Who Do You Love is a women's fiction novel written by author: Jennifer Weiner. This is a likable love story that takes the long way around so-to-speak. The pace is slow which unfortunately affected how consistently engaged I felt and the characters weren't developed in a way that caused me to feel much investment in them. There were however interesting elements written into the their individual stories, such as family, medical, cultural, religious, economic, and racial dynamics. Based on my ow
★★½Who Do You Love is a women's fiction novel written by author: Jennifer Weiner.
This is a likable love story that takes the long way around so-to-speak.
The pace is slow which unfortunately affected how consistently engaged I felt and the characters weren't developed in a way that caused me to feel much investment in them.
There were however interesting elements written into the their individual stories, such as family, medical, cultural, religious, economic, and racial dynamics.
It’s part of your story.
The story you’ll tell yourself, the one you’ll tell about yourself, for the rest of your life.”
Let me start by saying that I love Jennifer Weiner's writing.
I really do - I love it.
This novel, however, is not one of her best.
Upper middle-class Rachel and poverty-stricken Andy meet by accident in a hospital waiting room when they are children.
Their lives keep intersecting, seemingly at random, as they grow to adulthood.
The premise is that their love (and, in such instances, they're bound to fall in love, right?) is meant to be.
If you'd like to start reading Jennifer Weiner, I recommend that you begin with any of her other books.
That should be Whom.
And between Rachel and Andy, there are plenty of times where it's appropriate to question, 'who DO you love?'I've felt like the multi-perspective stories have been having a moment over the last several years, and for the most part this book just seems to blend in with the rest in terms of its style.
Who should read it?: If you like love stories that don't follow any traditional formulas, I highly recommend you spend some time with this one.WEBSITE | TWITTER | FACEBOOK | INSTAGRAM
The story was one I feel has been done many times and lacked the humorous dialogue I'm used to in Weiner's writing.
2 kids meet in a hospital for a brief time, become friends/start dating in high school.
Each chapter is one of their stories and while interesting in parts, more so Andy's story than Rachel's, it kind of plodded along.
The last chapter was so predictable I skimmed it to the last sentence.
I really wanted to like this one more, and it hasn't turned me off Weiner's writing altogether, but I really hope she gets back to funnier contemporary romance she does so well.
Three is being generous.Good in Bed is my all-time favourite Jennifer Weiner book.
She and Andy meet again at camp and begin their love story.
Strike One.They reconnect a few years later.
He leaves and they break up again.Strike Two.They reconnect a few years later.
Rachel moves in with Andy as he is training for the Olympics.
I think that Andy's story - minus Rachel - would have been book-worthy in it's own right.I finished it to say I finished it - but after the brilliance of Good in Bed, I can honestly say this, now, will be my last Jennifer Weiner book.
Rachel and Andy meet for the first time when they are 8-years-old when Rachel is in a Miami hospital for heart disease and Andy is there for a possible broken arm that he sustained while leaning over a balcony looking for his Mom. He was from Philadelphia visiting.
Over the years they go separate ways yet are also together in college, after college and down the road.
There are just some loves that the heart won't forget and won't let go and Rachel and Andy have one of those loves.
*MILD SPOILERS*We all know from the blurb that Rachel and Andy meet in an ER waiting room when they are only 8 years-old.
Rachel grows up with a heart defect, she says her heart is broken, for real :( Her mom is always worried about her and doesn't let her do hardly anything.
I didn't like some of the parts of the book like when Andy comes to see Rachel at her sorority and she seems like this shallow person.
They go back and forth between Rachel's story and Andy's story.
They come back together at the end of the book when everything has fallen apart for both of them.
I just wanted to say that this is one of my favorite books this year, I loved so much that I couldn’t stop reading!Andy met Rachel at the hospital when they were both 8 years old.
I thought Andy made a lot of mistakes, big ones that was almost impossible to forgive, but he was a lost boy and them a lost man, he was running his entire life and he was never satisfied what he had accomplish, Rachel was a wonderful character, she had so much love to give and *spoiler* I loved that she forgave Andy and finally gave him another chance.
This book is so well written and flows so perfectly, the author did such a great job building these wonderful characters that I wanted to start reading the book again.
You then get too see what happens to them over the years (starting in 1985) and told from both POV’s it gives the reader the opportunity to get into both characters heads at the pivotal points in their lives.This was a pretty long book, and at points it felt it too.
I couldn't read it fast enough-- I was so absorbed in the worlds of Rachel and Andy, so invested in their stories, that I couldn't wait to see what was next.WHO DO YOU LOVE is the story of Rachel and Andy, who we first meet in a hospital when they are both eight years old.
What's more, I really came to feel for the secondary characters, too.Jennifer Weiner delivers what we've come to expect from her 11 other books, her essays, and her live-tweets of The Bachelor-- a story that will make you laugh, make you cry, and leave you thinking once you've finished.
I so loved this beautiful book. I couldn't put it down all day. Such a lovely story of two very different people that met up. They're deemed to be to be forever each other forever. Their life can have up and downs. But so beautifully written. I truly loved this one a lot!!
3,4This reading was a bit bipolar to me, the beginning was very slow and when I started to like reading I could not stop.
Rachel irritate us a little, she ends up disappointing us with her attitudes from her teenage years until the beginning of her adult life, but it is already in adulthood that Andy disappoints us and we live a reverse, we started liking Rachel more than Andy.
And when the end comes, I wanted more, more developments than what happened next.This was a slow reading with lots of ups and downs, I expected more but overall I enjoyed it.
And with this being of a similar nature, of course I couldn’t help loving it!Andy and Rachel once meet at the hospital when they’re 8 years old…and destiny keeps bringing them together through different stages of their lives.
The journey’s that each character took is something which makes you think deeper about how things play out for different people and how people can often miss out on chances.I also couldn’t help but think about people out there who often have to make the wrong choices due to not having enough money to support their families and then the blame coming on a certain race.
"I was born with a broken heart."This past year I have been making it a point to read books from authors I've heard of but are ultimately new to me.
But at different points in the story I ended up disliking Rachel and Andy so much that I was pretty sure I was going to DNF.
(hide spoiler)]"I'd thought that Andy was my destiny, but maybe he was more of a life lesson, a hurdle, I had to keep clearing to show the universe I was worthy of the life intended for me: this life, with this man."But what really had me hesitant from rating this any higher than I did (in which my rating is because I enjoyed Ms. Weiner's writing style and storytelling) was because Rachel and Andy's love story was just underwhelming.
A love story  is sparked by the chance encounter at a hospital between Rachel Blum, a privileged Jewish Floridian, and Andy Landis, a poor, bi-racial boy from Philadelphia, who later in life becomes an Olympic athlete.
They never see each other until years later.Andy Landis, on the other hand, comes from a poor humble beginning.
Years later,  two misfits, with different backgrounds, meet again and begin dating while in high school and college.
A little different twist, than Weiner’s past books-- she delves into the heart of two young kids, their passions, and dreams, and the tragedies and triumphs of life, love, and relationships.

Who Do You Love by one of my absolute favorite authors, Jennifer Weiner, tugs at your heartstrings and makes you believe in the power of love. It's heart-breaking (especially the hospital scenes) and I was instantly attached to the main characters. So life-like, I felt their presence follow me around. A beautiful story and one I highly recommend!My Rating: 5 stars
It is a story about soul mates and destiny.
Rachel comes from a wealthy Jewish family and in many respects leads something of a charmed spoiled existence.
On the other hand, Andy is of mixed race and comes from a very poor single parent family.
Told from alternate view points each lead lives that you want to read about, interesting ones and you really get to know the characters.
There were several times in the read when I wanted to shout at Andy in particular for the decisions he made.
It’s definitely not a bad book but it is far from being an amazing one; it’s cute and romantic, sometimes endearing, sometimes boring and flat.You follow one couple’s relationship since meeting in childhood up until they finally end up together and this is a possible spoiler - literally 10 pages before the end.
In the meantime, they are on and off and on again; go through life, failed relationships, mishaps and the usual trials and tribulations of ‘true love’.A bit predictable really, you just know they are meant to be together since the beginning.In conclusion, can’t say this book made a long lasting impression in me, but I do recommend it to the hopeless romantic readers out there.
I truly enjoyed this story and Jennifer Weiner is a wonderful writer!! It's a very sweet story with ups and downs that mostly leave you feeling good. It is exactly what I've needed after reading dark and heavy stories. I will always read books by this author.
Jennifer Weiner rarely disappoints. In my humble opinion,this is her masterpiece. A story that takes you into the depth of every memory you have of first love. I wanted to crawl inside and live in this book.
Torn between 3 or 4 stars. I didn't love this book like I thought I would. I definitely had higher expectations.
I did not like this book. I thought it was ridiculous. I did not like either main character. I thought their relationship was fake. There was dialogue like:"Hi. Are you hungry?""Yes""Do you want to get some food?""Sure"Ugh. And it dragged on and on and on and on and on with unnecessary details.And the ended was totally rushed. Like Weiner's editor she had to finish NOW!
Rachel and Andy's story took me on a journey that lasted thirty years.
Beginning in the eighties when Rachel and Andy first met and finishing in the present day, their story captured me immediately and I found myself quickly eating up the pages, fully engrossed in what I was reading.
If you took away Rachel's heart problem and Andy's success in running, the remainder of their lives were unremarkable, therefore I found Rachel and Andy's story to be realistic and easy to relate to.
Rachel and Andy's love for each other was a first love and like many first loves, it never really went away.
I loved being wrapped up in Rachel and Andy's story.
Video review HERE: https://youtu.be/yfdLRYMXZDYThis is Jennifer Weiners 12th book but FIRST book about a love story.
We follow Rachel who is a privilege jewish girl who has this rare heart condition who meets Andy, a bi racial boy who lives in poverty with his mom.
Andy on the other hand, after Mr Sills (Andy’s retired neighbor) took him under his wing, became the most precious male character I’ve ever read about.
The one down side of the book is it took us the WHOLE book to get to see what happened with Rachel and Andy.
