https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15698724
I think I should: Chitralekha, ostensibly a masterpiece of Hindi literature would have never EVER found a decent publisher if it was written in English (Is that the reason why there are no translations in print?) You may call me biased.
I have read one more book by Bhagwaticharan Verma -- 'Veh Phir Nahi Aayi' -- and it had the same problems as Chitralekha (though the stentorian philosophizing was absent, which made it passable).
I have not yet read 'Bhoole Bisre Chitr', supposedly Verma's best book, and so I will abstain from making an unqualified comment about his writing -- or about Hindi-Urdu-literature-that-is-not-social-realism.
Superb character portrayal! Searching for sin was a great theme too. Add the logical debates contradicting each other and creating dilemma.Enjoyed the first half immensely. Felt the latter part swayed a bit.Loved the chapters depicted as sketched pictures.
जीवन हलचल है, परिवरतन है, और हलचल तथा परिवरतन में सुख और शानति का कोई सथान नहीं!This is what the protagonist of the novel believes in. Someone who found comfort in unrest, Chitralekha, is portrayed as a woman of exceptional beauty and wisdom.A courtesan who can be seen musing over the philosophy of life and love and seen debating and putting great hermits to shame. Beejgupt and Kumargiri are the other two main characters who just bring life to the story with their different personalities and rem
Someone who found comfort in unrest, Chitralekha, is portrayed as a woman of exceptional beauty and wisdom.A courtesan who can be seen musing over the philosophy of life and love and seen debating and putting great hermits to shame.
Beejgupt and Kumargiri are the other two main characters who just bring life to the story with their different personalities and remarkable opposing ideologies.
Here in the novel you can find pretty interesting philosophical answers to everything.The main topic in the plot was the definition of sin and virtue, and we go on to witness characters stating and pointing out what sin means to them.
A marvellous book by Bhagwati Charan Verma which deals with the concept of sin and virtue and ultimately comes to the conclusion tha neither sin nor virtue exists in this world; it is the perspecitve with which we analyse the situation.
Chitralekha leaves materialistic Beejgupt for spiritualistic Kumargiri (only to regret it later), thus setting a chain of events in motion.
Yogi Kumargiri knows his imminent fall from grace but is helpless against the charms of Chitralekha.
On the other hand Beejgupt rises above ordinary and gives up all his material comforts(does he too regret it later?
nobody knows).What I liked most is Beejgupta's character and his views.
Assertion of Vishal Dev in the epilogue that Kumargiri is a saint and Beejgupta is a sinner even when he knew all about Kumargiri and Chitralekha seem un-natural.Overall I enjoyed the book thoroughly.
What is sin and what is merit, what is good and what is bad? Ultimately, it comes to what is rightful to do at a given time and what is not. This book i read when i was in Std. 8 remains one of my favorite books.
Read way back in school days .. stayed with me forever ...
So this book was something different for me in lot of ways.I was having two hindi books on my reading list for quite sometime, one was “Chitralekha” and another was “Yayati” .
Finally I got in the mood to try Chitralekha, and I was very impressed by the writing style and the content.This book is kind of philosophical treatise, and the fictional story that binds it together is just a means to communicate different point of views with stimulating arguments.I liked this book for the food for thought it provided, for thoughtful and profound discussions between the characters, and also for the atmosphere it portrayed.
I generally don't like philosophical novels and hence I was extremely skeptical to pick this one. I am glad that I did, it is fairly small, not very heavy but shoots like a bullet. One can read it entirely in a single sitting, not because you want to just finish the book out of compulsion which in my case has happened in the past with most novels of similar genre, but only because the story weaves you in. It aids to you to think but doesn't force you to.. which I believe is its USP
Simply superb !
Super Boring.
It's a very interesting book with fiction elements. It describes nothing literally is good or bad. Human goes with the flow and flaws.
Intellectual discourse on spirituality in this book is splendid. Love, lust and its interference in life.
Exceptional dive into deep philosophy with intriguing story narration and engaging writing style!
I have read one more book by Bhagwaticharan Verma -- 'Veh Phir Nahi Aayi' -- and it had the same problems as Chitralekha (the stentorian philosophizing was absent, which made it passable).
I have not yet read 'Bhoole Bisre Chitr', supposedly Verma's best book, and so I will abstain from making an unqualified comment about his writing -- or about Hindi-Urdu-literature-that-is-not-social-realism.
But after reading some examples 20th century Hindi novel, I have decided to be a bit skeptical of its claim of being as good as its Western counterpart.
Chitralekha (Novel) (Paperback) by Bhagwati Charan Verma- The 22 chapter novel is wound up as a charming love story.
A question is discussed between them- what is sin committed by human beings living within a social set up.
To prove his point, he sends both disciples to Beejgupta, a commander in the Mauryan Army and second to Kumargupt, a hermit.
Third character is Chitralekha, a widow who acts as dancer.
In the end the question is to identify which amongst these dancers is Chitralekha.
Beejgupta identifies her from the group.
Here the hermit, Kumargupt falls in love with Chitralekha.
भगवती चरण जी के दवारा लिखी गयी ये कृति काफी अमूलय है । काफी कुछ पढने और विवेचना के बाद मैं इस निषकरष
भगवती चरण जी के द्वारा लिखी गयी ये कृति काफ़ी अमूल्य है । काफ़ी कुछ पढ़ने और विवेचना के बाद मैं इस न
Wakai, Gunah ae Sawab jo Falsafo chaa aahe, hee Novel unji bharpur akaasi kare tho.Jivan ji lorh, bhaj-dduk, musalsal jidojehd ae poe dighee saant- hae! kedo na wannandrr chakarviyoo ahe.. Hee insan b na kedo laachar ahe- Kath'putlee jiyaa haaltun je ishaare te hale tho..Haa, Akhtyaar zarur aahe, par Aqul te b kehro Wishwaas- kadehn Pher khae, kadehn Therr khae..Dilchaspi ae Aanand ta fakat inhi me ee aahe, jo Man ji Sachai saa kyo wanje, chaahe Galat ya Sahee; kehro Faraq tho pawe..
its an exceptionally written, the depth of character is amazing and more than it is the thought process of the author i admire, the book not only tell about paap and punya but it also tell and defines love affection truth, lie and reality of this world. Another thing which i liked about the book is if you connect yourself to varous character of the book one will feel that we all face such situations in life but we dont think so deep and its not possible also.
किसी परशन का ऐसा निषपकष जवाब; न ही मैंने कभी सुना है और शायद ही कभी पढूंगा। कितबों से जो एक सबसे बड़ी सीख मुझे मिली है वह ये है की "मनुषय ममतव परधान है"। कोई भी करम वह कभी बुरा सोचकर नहीं करता है। यह तो देखने वाले की दृषटिकोण है जो आलोचनातमक निषकरषों को जनम देती है। "हम न पाप करते हैं न पुणय करते हैं,हम केवल वह करते हैं जो हमें करना पड़ता है"।
किसी प्रश्न का ऐसा निष्पक्ष जवाब; न ही मैंने कभी सुना है और शायद ही कभी पढूंगा। कितबों से जो एक सबसे बड़ी सीख मुझे मिली है वह ये है की "मनुष्य ममत्व प्रधान है"। कोई भी कर्म वह कभी बुरा सोचकर नहीं करता है। यह तो देखने वाले की दृष्टिकोण है जो आलोचनात्मक निष्कर्षों को जन्म देती है। "हम न पाप करते हैं न पुण्य करते हैं,हम केवल वह करते हैं जो हमें करना पड़ता है"।
An amazing and flawless book which takes reader into deep inside of the society drama of sin. There is nothing like sin and this is the main plot of the book where the reader is already wondering that the definition of sin varies from person to person and has nothing to do with actual existence of anything named "sin"
Superbly written. It isn't the novel to tell you a story but urge you to think youself about the philosophy of life, about good and bad, about sin and virtue.The author concludes that there is nothing like sin or virtue, human being is slave of circumstances created by time. I put this book in must read category.
Had read this book when I was not in age of understanding the main objective of this writing. But the impact of this story based on Sin & Godly was so deep that today as well I can remember it's words so well. A very well described story which provides base of good and bad notions of individuals.
पाप ??? पुणय ???? और ऐसे ही बहुत से परशन जो दिमाग में अकसर सैर करते रहते हैं . इनका बेहतरीन उततर आप इस उपनयास को पढकर पा सकते हैं . साधना और सुख के संघरष को बहुत अचछे तरीके से उकेडा है लेखक महोदय ने. उतकृषट कृति !!!!
पाप ??? पुण्य ???? और ऐसे ही बहुत से प्रश्न जो दिमाग में अक्सर सैर करते रहते हैं . इनका बेहतरीन उत्तर आप इस उपन्यास को पढकर पा सकते हैं . साधना और सुख के संघर्ष को बहुत अच्छे तरीके से उकेड़ा है लेखक महोदय ने. उत्कृष्ट कृति !!!!
I read it in 5-6 hours in a train journey recently.Just wow!At par with Herman Hesse's Siddhartha: search for sin and truth.A must read.
what is paap, what is punya, it is all the game of circumstances.. lovely !!!
A book that will force you to analyze right from wrong i different shades of white and black.
Must read to understand the world of those who stay in world and enjoy and those who renounce everything. Detailed Review here: http://www.anureviews.com/chitralekha...
Love is all about Sacrifice and acceptance.
Reading the Nepali version .. Translated by :Tarini Prasad Koirala..i would say a good translation... Philosophy about life, love, and sin.Really a good read..
