https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/444944.Triplanetary
I wasn't a child when Doc Smith's first works came out, so I don't have that glittering/blinding cloud of nostalgia around his work, like the one that engulfs me when I read Hardy Boys.Maybe seeing Flash Gordon reruns at about the same time that Star Wars came out back in the '70s caused a rift in my mind, a gaping gulf between "then" and "now" (or what was "now" at the time).
In fact, rather than destroying the galaxy, the aliens are saving a bit of the galaxy by keeping my rating of this book at two stars, rather than one.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Realistic Sounding Nonsense: "Triplanetary" E.E.
"Doc" Smith"Immediately before the Coalescence began there was one,and only one, planetary solar system in the Second Galaxy; and, until the advent of Eddore, the Second Galaxy was entirely devoid of intelligent life"In "Triplanetary" by E.
E. "Doc" SmithThere are only three real approaches to physics in SF:1.
Absolute hard core real physics with speculative aspects;2.
Realistic sounding nonsense;3.
Unrealistic sounding nonsense.I am personally a fan of approach 2.
This gave us stuff like "Triplanetary", "First Lensman", etc.In response to those suggesting that dissecting the science in SF novels is redundant and possibly silly, I would argue for a dichotomy.
I found all seven in the series in a second hand book shop a few years ago and, struck by nostalgia, I bought them all.
Reading them again, I found that the clunky writing, the cardboard characters, the outdated social mores, the bad science - everything that should make me drop this book like a venomous snake - was just charming.
maybe another one), illuminates this book with fond memories.
It's just not possible for me, the adult, to betray me, the child, by giving this (and the rest of the Lensman series) anything less than 5 stars.
The "near-miss" theory turned out to be wrong in a variety of ways, but the one which most upset both Barnes and Smith was that stellar encounters would be extremely rare, so hardly any suns would end up with planets.
This offends his complex religious sensibilities, and (arguably for the wrong reason), he concludes that the "near-miss" theory is incorrect.But Smith has no time to think about the niceties of astrophysics; he's got an SF epic to write, and he needs lots of planets for his cool aliens to live on!
Why must they all be so tormented these days?The plot was a little too coincidence driven, but, as I said, I was expecting pulp and that’s what I got.
“Above her, ruddy Mars and silvery Jupiter blazed in splendor ineffable against a background of utterly indescribable blackness--a background thickly besprinkled with dimensionless points of dazzling brilliance which were the stars.” The descriptions alone have sold me on Doc Smith’s writing style, and I’ll certainly be reading more by him just to get to experience more of it.Personally, since I like my fiction on the pulpy side, I think this is one of the best books I’ve ever read.
I'm not terribly ashamed to admit I like Doc Smith, since I'm in good company (see Robert Heinlein's "Larger than Life"). Heinlein's apology for Smith covers most of the usual criticisms: the hackneyed dialogue, the Mauve Decade values, the liberal use of space opera stereotypes such as bug-eyed monsters (although note, please, that these hadn't been overused yet during Smith's time).But I secretly hope that, in a different life, I too might wear the Lens....and in any case, to be a credit to the Patrol.
Old fashioned space opera.Two ancient races battle for the universe, and Earth is a battleground, only most earthling don't know it.It sounds like something I'd like, but surprisingly, it simply didn't hit the spot. I think it was the combining Lovecraftian and Cold War elements into the same novel.
The Eddorians are nebulous, shifting creatures, and can assume a variety of human forms.Gharlane of Eddore occupies several nasty humans, including Nero (Wikipedia claims he is Hitler during the section of the narrative that takes place during World War II, but Hitler is never mentioned in Triplanetary).The reason I felt adrift is because the short sections that take place during the fall of Atlantis, the fall of Rome, the Great War, the Second World War, and World War III aren't really connected in any way.
After finishing this book, I still don't know what a "lens" is in Doc Smith's world, or how one might wield it.I plan to read more of the series, not least because I have the whole stack sitting on my shelf at home, but I didn't feel as if this was a great introduction.
I had heard that this series had dated badly but didn't think that would be a problem for me but I think for once it was.
1930's American slang really began to grate on me after a while and demonstrates a truism I think; steer clear of the slang (either real or imagined) because, no matter how cool it might seem at the time, it will only look silly in years to come.But at the end of the day, it's not just that it's dated.
The story lurches from one event to the next, crisis to crisis, in an erratic fashion.
Plausibility was no constraint on the story telling.
1.5 stars. Classic "space opera" by one of the fathers of the genre. First in the Lensman Series. Not horrible (though the dialogue at times made me wince), but I didn't really like either. This seems to be the weakest entry of the Lensman saga though it does set the stage well for the later novels.
Probably one of the worst books I've ever read. The first half was stapled on in 1948 as a sort of prequel to the Lensman novels. The back half was the original story from 1934. Most fascinating is the anti-fascism fears mixed with cold war era fears as a result of being written at different times.All that said...ugh.
I tried to like this, I really did. Some books age well but this one does not stand the test of time. I can see the seeds that planted in later sci-fi authors and there are some great ideas here, but I found it was poorly written and at times the author really didn't seem to know where he was planning on going and it meandered a lot.
Nutshell: first third chronicles intergalactic duel between super-species, through proxies on earth, mostly; remainder involves virtually unrelated space opera contest between overachiever earthlings and trespassing pisceans.Advertised as the first Lensman book, I’m not really seeing any of the items made famous by that series.
No idea what all that has to do with the later space opera, which is more concerned with the fish-aliens, who are iron-maruaders.
One super-species has a proxy in the solar system during the time, a faux pirate who acts the mad scientist.
"In which scientific detail would not be bothered about, and in which his imagination would run riot," Smith’s biographer Harry Smith said of the Lensman stories.
And how.Interesting more as a historical document than as literature, this includes the 1934 story which was the first Lensman story of classic science fiction.
The writing is over-the-top, the characters heroic and chauvinistic, but it’s all great fun.
The books influenced military development and future science fiction.
(George Lucas read the Lensman series as a youth.)Three stars is a gift.
I wouldn’t have finished such an outlandish tale if written today, but it was hot stuff back then.
I am a bit deceived with this one, but it is my fault. I assumed that classic was synonymous with quality but this is not the case. Triplanetary deserves its place in the history of the genre for the innovative approach at the time and because serialized space operas (pulps) were a very popular form of science fiction in its beginnings. In a near future, I hope, a bit more explained on the blog: girotix.blogspot.com.es V'ger willing ;-)
Smith's Lensman series, which begins here, is a classic of pulp science fiction.
Government is good and always acting for the best.The two powerful races that start the story (in epically dense prose), the Eddoreans and the Arisians, encapsulate the ethos perfectly.
I could have sworn that shears and pressors and the inertialess drive took much longer to emerge, but they all come in right in this first book, seemingly developed over a matter of weeks by geniuses who need only one look at an enemy's polycyclic shield to immediately understand both its foundational principles, and the technology needed to go it one better.Again, though, the Lensman series is not about credibility.
It's Science Fiction 101, and if you read it as a creature of its time, it's a lot of fun.

Wow, grandpa was right!Many (many) years ago my grandfather tried to interest me in E.E. Smith's Lensman series.
He failed then, but the books somehow remained with me, always hovering at the edge of my consciousness.
Now that I've finished Triplanetary I can honestly say: Grampa, you were so right!
This is military-type, space-opera SF at its pulpy best.
It's a really, really fun read from first page to last.
And the Kindle e-book is free!
If you like Heinlein's military stuff (e.g. Starship Troopers), give Triplanetary a try.
I can't wait to pick up First Lensman and keep reading!
I wouldn't recommend this to anyone who didn't like or want to understand 'Campbellian' SF. It's not bad, especially a book or two into the series. After that, it gets to be a bit much.
After all, I’m pretty sure this epic science-fiction series was the inspiration for Steve “Slug” Russell’s Spacewar!, arguably the template for computer games as developed in the early ‘60s.
It's easy to see why Triplanetary is considered an iconic work in science-fiction, as well as how it inspired one video game and “predicted” a maneuver in another.
Still, I liked the entire novel even though the long, slow set-up wasn’t as inspiring as the mid-20th century science-fiction adventure toward the end.
(Other examples were Isaac Asimov's "Foundation Trilogy," and "I, Robot," from Gnome Press, also fix-ups, which were later picked up by Doubleday.)All this activity was in the interest of turning it into an explanatory prelude to the original form of Smith's "Lensman" series, which ran in the science fiction magazine "Astounding" during the late 1930s and 1940s (and was enormously popular).
It did, however, give Smith an opportunity to give the series a wonderful opening paragraph for an epic science fiction story, a pithier version of the opening sentences of "Galactic Patrol":"Two thousand million or so years ago two galaxies were colliding; or, rather, were passing through each other.
But even compared to pulp fiction of the time, this story is pretty weak.The novel starts with a cruise ship attacked by space pirates led by a mysterious man known only as Roger.
Costigan has to lead his team to escape the alien menace and save the Triplanetary systems from iron-stealing aliens and Roger.Some of the scifi concepts are still in use today, like laser beams (called "rays") and video screens (called "plates").
The solution is for the heroes to have even more magical technology, like guns that can burn through anything, and "spy rays" that let them see through any object and can't be detected.The space battles are actually numerous and exciting.
I read it all the way through a couple of years ago, and made it only half way through a few years before that.This is a book of an earlier, ostensibly less-complicated era.
Most science fiction I read is from the last couple of decades, and none of it is even remotely as action-packed as Triplanetary.
Could that partly be because audiences who would have sought out that kind of entertainment from written stories are now getting it from movies?In short, this book is the essence cheesy, simplistic, action-packed science fiction that you'd expect from the pulp age.
Supposedly the granddaddy of all space opera, I was steered onto EE Doc's series hoping to do find the great opus that inspired everything from Babylon 5 to the Green Lantern.
Unfortunately, the years have not been kind to this dusty piece of 30s pulp.The stories were apparently standalones to begin with, but rewritten and retconned into his big lensmaster series to cash in.
That's when they aren't going into hysterics of course.The pros were so cheesy and the plot so hamfisted that it was a real chore to struggle through to the end.
I think I'll leave the rest of the lensmaster series for braver souls to read.
And then a third of the way through the book, we're in space opera territory; our heroes are kidnapped by space pirates, re-kidnapped by an amphibian race, themselves under attack by other forces:[return][return]"[The attackers were] fish some five feet in length.
"[return][return]The war between the alien amphibians and humanity is resolved, the Earth is saved (apart from Pittsburgh), and the pirate captain, in fact an incarnation of the evil Eddorians, escapes to the next novel.[return][return]I can see why this (and I suppose the rest of the series) is a taproot text for so much sf.
It did take me a little while to get into it, but once I did I was really hooked.I love the idea of epic stories, histories that span the eons.
Unknowingly, many of our battles throughout history have actually taken place on a larger galactic stage, and have had puppet strings pulled by greater masters.I loved the idea of the galactic power struggle.
I loved how it shaped human history.
And, I really loved when we got to see humans battling space pirates and the amphibious Nevians.
My mind was blown when this book talked about the bombing of Pearl Harbor in 1941.
Mind less blown.
The first part of this book made no sense to me, a series of vignettes or episodes: an introduction to alien beings and then stories from ancient Rome, WWI, WWII and WWIII, perhaps to show the heroic determination of the good guys in war.
Finally, beginning perhaps halfway through the book, there is a space opera of humans versus the evil aliens.
'Doc' Smith is a big name in the early days of science fiction, the days of the pulp magazines.
I must say that this, the first of Doc Smith's Lensmen series, was something of a disappointment.
It didn't entice me to read further into the series.
And I don't think I ever will.
I got more than halfway done, which I think was an accomplishment, considering the writing.
I understand that this is important in the sci-fi canon, and that it was a precursor to many other sci-fi developments.
But it is basically pulp fiction, and being that I had no nostalgic connections to it having read it the first time this year, I got nothing out of it.
Because of its place as a classic on many sci-fi lists and its significance as an early sci-fi read and the first space opera, it gets an extra star and winds up with 2 instead of 1.
If you want pulp-era space opera, this is what you read.
This is the stuff that George Lucas grew up on.
Reading this book is like experiencing Star Wars in novel form in the 1940s.
The prose is purple, the heroes are manly, the heroines are beautiful and emotional and smart and brave and strong.
The science is soft, but the action is slam-bang.
The scope of the story is galactic, and yet Smith takes us in for a close look at the gritty action.
I look forward to the rip-roaring adventure of FIRST LENSMAN.
For a pulp sci-fi novel, it's very well-written.
What became tedious to me, though, was scene after scene of vast, hideous destruction, described in pretty much the same terms every time, and in such a way that it somehow failed to be horrible.What I mean is that hundreds, thousands or millions of humans or aliens were being killed, and because they had no names and no faces and the named characters were all stiff-upper-lip about it, the horror of war was minimised and it became mere fireworks.
I imagine that being written just after World War II had something to do with it.
