https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19547856-simon-vs-the-homo-sapiens-agenda
It's a story that advocates a world where being straight isn’t the default, where there isn’t any sexuality assumptions and where lgbtq+ people aren't being pressured to “come out”, while also firmly stating that coming out is a very personal thing for someone to do and no one should take that away from them.this book really has a place in my heart nothing else could ever have and I really cannot recommend it strongly enough!!
Simon is that perfect mix of delightfully weird and totally normal - he makes us laugh and roll our eyes, but we secretly recognize many of the things he thinks.I giggled so much at scenes like this:I take a sip of my beer, and it’s - I mean, it’s just astonishingly disgusting.
You can read hundreds, perhaps thousands, of books about the difficulties of dealing with your sexuality and coming out - like the dark and powerful More Happy Than Not - and these are very important, but it was so refreshing to see a warm, fuzzy gay romance where the protagonist is supported by his friends and family.Very funny and heart-warming.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr
This was so great!
It was funny and adorable and just left me with the biggest smile plastered on my face!
I thought the mystery was great (and was so excited when I correctly guessed who Blue was!) and I liked that despite the blackmail and the tension, it was still a mostly lighthearted uplifting kind of book.Overall, I really enjoyed this.
I didn't love it quite as much as I've loved books by Stephanie Perkins and Rainbow Rowell, but I definitely felt that it was along those same lines.
Original Review (December 2013): If Becky wasn't a gay teenage boy with good grammar and a foul mouth in several past lives, then she's absolutely one of the most observant writers in the YA game.New Review (June 2017): Just finished my third or fourth reread of SIMON VS., this time on audio which is narrated by the amazing Michael Crouch, and wow, I love this book more each time. I'm 27 right now and SIMON remains the book I wish I had 10 years ago.
This was a great read! Simon is a hilarious character and I loved reading through his perspective. I also liked that the story didn't just end right after the climax and how we got to see what happened past the big moment of the story.
in honor of me seeing the movie early and then seeing it again on a cheesy and gay movie date: THE BEST MOMENTS OF THIS BOOK, NEW AND IMPROVED!!🌷Simon putting Martin in his phone as “monkey’s asshole”🌹I can’t believe “mom, pick me up, kids are drinking alcohol” isn’t in the book🌷the Drarry fanfiction summer🌹“there are some socks that shouldn’t be washed by your mom”🌷the suck and dick nice weather typo, and Blue subsequently bringing it up, like, eight times🌹the unfortunately correct representation of what high school theater is like.
that’s why I got them” 🌷hashtag roasted🌹Blue’s dad getting him a book by Casanovathe fact that Blue says “as you would say, freaking Casanova” and Simon immediately replies with “FREAKING CASANOVA” that’s so pure🌷Blue being turned on by Simon’s sentence fragments🌹 
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge #12: A Book with an LGBTQ+ ProtagonistI'm trying to spend more time this year re-reading some of my favorite books, and this was a great start! I actually listened to it on audiobook this time around, and the narration was amazing. No complaints! Also I'm SO FREAKING EXCITED FOR THE MOVIEfirst read in 2015THIS BOOK IS WONDERFUL.If a story about a cynical gay Harry Potter fan falling in love with somebody from the inside out sounds appealing to you, do yourself a favor and pick this up when it comes out in April.
Awesome. Video review to come.
This. Book. Was. So. Much. FUNNNN.It has been ages since I stayed up late reading a book, propping my eyes open just to keep going. This book had me up at 2AM wanting to find out what would happen to our precious Simon. The family relationships were fantastic, the friendship dynamics were really well done, the musical was too much fun, I loved that the romance took place over the internet, I just completely soaked it all up!If you're looking for a very readable, very happy, super fun book PLEASE PICK THIS ONE UP AND WARM UP YOUR HEART.
“I mean, I guess I’m wondering if you want to help me talk to Abby.”Seriously, why did he think that was okay in any way?And Simon kept describing Martin as a goofy kid that everyone in their school loves, but Martin has some serious issues and needs to take a huge step back to reevaluate his life choices.I mean:“And then she looks up at me with raised eyebrows and a perfectly round mouth, and I can’t help but laugh.“That was so bitchy of me.
I absolutely loved this book!!! I'm so happy I finally had the motivation to read it. It was exactly as everyone described it; Cute, Fluffy, Healthy, a fast read, an *important* read, etc. I can clearly see why it's such an acclaimed novel for LGBT+ rep in the book community. I'm very satisfied with "Simon" and would recommend it to absolutely everyone in the world because y'all need this book in your life!
There’s this pause. We’re still looking at each other. And there’s this feeling in my stomach like a coil pulled taut.   ‘‘It’s you,’’ I say. 3 stars? 3.5 stars? I’m honestly not sure. Prior to reading this novel, I had read maybe five, six, seven reviews that upped my anticipation like crazy. They all mentioned how ‘‘cute’’ and ‘‘adorable’’ this novel is. And it’s true. I wouldn’t be surprised to see Simon vs. the Homo Sapiens Agenda becoming a New York Times bestseller and would actually be p
I felt as if, throughout the story, Simon fell in love twice, and the third time could have been possible.
When Simon’s exchanged e-mails with Blue are found by Martin, a classmate, this latter starts ‘‘blackmailing’’ Simon into putting in a good word for him with Abby, the girl he secretly likes.
But things don’t always go the way we want them to, and people don’t always react the way we wish they would.Maybe, just maybe, I would have enjoyed this book at least treble if it hadn’t been my third read with a gay character being apart of a play, the first two being Will Grayson, Will Grayson and My Most Excellent Year.
I mean, I don’t even want to look at you.”Still, it hurt to know that Blue was too shy to show himself and the fact Simon was so down made me sad as well!
XD What made it even worse, was that he didn’t even know if his feelings were reciprocated, because they actually stopped to write mails right after Simon’s identity was revealed!
I’m not going to pretend I know how this ends, and I don’t have a freaking clue if it’s possible to fall in love over email.
I know she felt left out, but it wasn’t like Simon could have done anything to stop Nick and Abby falling in love!
It just makes me so happy...but also balances that with a lot of anxiety through Simon being blackmailed.I think books just get the 5/5 when they make you feel all the things.(Also it's SO much fun rereading and knowing who Blue is!!
So I would like to try the real thing, please and thank you.)• IT IS AFDJSKALD ADORABLE IN TERMS OF ROMANCE ERK.
And that's how I like to read characters.
I adore books about friendships!
I think the book is SO epic in its thoughts otherwise, that maybe that was just Blue being a stupid teen?
Joy in others that is, because, as mentioned, I am fully immune to happiness.”Closer to the second one, probably, but that’s because there’s something wrong with me.I guess my feelings are that...this book is…(picture me literally gulping like a cartoon character, which is not something that people do in real life but people in books do all the time)...um...overrated?I am prepared to be pelted with spitballs and rotten tomatoes and framed photos of Becky Albertalli’s face.Here is what this book is, to me:-occasionally fun-quick to read-decent-impressively diverseHere is what it is not, to me:-life-changing-equal in terms of magic-ness to a rainbow or a child laughing for the first time-better than cookies (and how dare anyone even think it)-worthy of even four starsI liked the first half of this book.
As someone who does not typically like books set in high school, I absolutely adored this book.
It is possibly the cutest romance I've ever read.
And I think it is mostly because Simon and Blue feel in love with each other without knowing what the other looked like.
They 100% loved each other for what's inside and that made it all the more beautiful.
Simon felt like a real person.
His voice was so genuine and honest.
And Blue is the most precious person ever.
I can definitely see myself rereading this in the future to re-experience all the cuteness
There shouldn't even be a default.”4,5/5 starsI read this book exactly two years ago.
Since the trailer was released and the film release isn't too far away either, I thought it was time to do a quick reread.The first time around, I liked this book.
I had also figured out who Blue was after less than half of the novel, which kind of took the excitement away from reading it.The second time around, I loved this book.
This is also why I am even more excited to read her side of the story in Leah on the Offbeat.Overall I must say that Becky Albertalli definitely knows her way around teenagers and their feelings.
4.3/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ “Why is straight the default? Everyone should have to declare one way or another, and it shouldn't be this big awkward thing whether you're straight, gay, bi, or whatever. I'm just saying.”Look, this book started very slow for me. And I was very very hyped for it, for obvious reasons. Everyone has been talking about it for months, everyone is crying about it for months, there is a fucking movie about it, I mean, come on, I had high hopes. But for the first 150 pages I was a b
But now let's talk about the last 150 pages, which I read in one sitting and finished the book.This book follows Simon, a gay 16 year old teenager, who has been hiding his sexuality from the world for several years.
Their relationship will grow via email, but a goofy guy named Martin will jeopardize it after finding these emails and screenshotting them to blackmail Simon into hooking him up with one of his best friends, Abby, or else he'll out him.
I WANT A RELATIONSHIP LIKE THAT PLEASE LIFE.Now, let's talk about Simon's close people.
Let's talk about his closest friends, Leah, Nick and Abby.
4.5 stars... Maybe 5? I'm going to let things simmer and I'll get back to you on that, but OH YES THIS THIS THIS! Loved. So much. All of the things.
OMG THIS BOOOOOOOOOOOK
so when does the sequel come out bc i feel like i need 300 more pages of this
Can I just give this book a hundred stars...
reread update holy freakin hell how is this book so fucking incredibly cute? Everytime Blue was mentioned (but like, actual Blue) I'd be like fjghkf my sweet sweet soft boy !!! I love (view spoiler)[Bram (hide spoiler)]so much. HE'S SO SWEEET. I adored this book just as much as I did the first time and I read it in one sitting, again. So It is STILL an all time favourite. What a blessed book. Keeping my OG review bc it's actually good.  “Why is straight the default? Everyone should have to decla
When I read that I thought it was a pretty fucking shit thing to say but it was since addressed by Becky Albertalli and she's apologised and so that was pretty good to see and I'm glad she learnt/moved on ect.
(view spoiler)[ How he and Simon met up at the end was so cute, I loved the way he talked to him and how they were just really sweet together and I liked that he was really understanding tbh?
this book is the equivalent of getting a hug from someone you deeply care about - warm, comforting, strong, and loving. my heart is so full. and i know, no matter how many times i re-read this, it will forever feel like coming home. <3↠ 4 stars
Reread update 3/16/18:I love Simon Spier so much my heart is ready to burst. Also, I’m now fully prepared to go see Love, Simon a second time• • • • • •Original review 9/12/16:This was so adorable people are giving me looks on the train because I'm grinning in a possibly frightening level of happiness. I loved this.
___________I LOVED this book.
For one, there is nothing I hate more than silly drama, and I feel like so often YA authors resort to petty fighting or similar antics to put a "twist" in their plots.
There is NOTHING like young, innocent love.
This book captures young love perfectly and without condescension.
I won't go too far into the plot because I don't want to reveal any spoilers.
I will say, however, that I loved being in Simon's head.
(view spoiler)[I found it really interesting that the author made a character who was both 1/2 Jewish and non-white.
Some of my favorite quotes. :S -“White shouldn't be the default any more than straight should be the default. There shouldn't even be a default.”-“I’m too busy trying not to be in love with someone who isn’t real.”-“It feels like we’re the last survivors of a zombie apocalypse. Wonder Woman and a gay dementor. It doesn’t bode well for the survival of the species.” -“The closest thing I’ve ever had to a journalis probably you.”” If this beauty is any indication of how 2017 is going to turn out, I
There shouldn't even be a default.”-“I’m too busy trying not to be in love with someone who isn’t real.”-“It feels like we’re the last survivors of a zombie apocalypse.
If this beauty is any indication of how 2017 is going to turn out, I'm feeling hopeful!"Sixteen-year-old and not-so-openly gay Simon Spier prefers to save his drama for the school musical.
I've read nothing but magnificent things about Simon vs.
Lock her in a room then guard the door till she finishes the damn book, so we can both fangirl over it...
Though I loved this book with all my heart, I do think they have a point.
The audio narration was really great for Simon, my only gripe is that the narrator read all the female characters in the same unamused sounding voice which usually didn't fit their emotions.Original Review (2016):This book was SO good.
There are 10 million great things I could say about this book but here's the shortlist:-It kept me up til 6 am to finish the whole thing.-It made me cry 3 times.
(Big deal because I am not a book crier.)-I am actually heartbroken that these characters are not real and I am not friends with them.-OTP status.-Beautiful, beautiful first love.-Heck yes, diversity!
No idea why I seem to stay away from contemporaries because all the ones I’ve read this year I’ve loved!
After seeing a post on Tumblr, Simon starts up an online email relationship with another person - Blue, that way both can keep their identities hidden.
This doesn’t last very long until another person finds out about these emails and uses them to blackmail Simon.
I loved the characters!
It was just such a lovely, feel good, read.
I don’t think I’ve ever cried happy tears at a book until now2.
I want to punch old me in the face for thinking I wouldn’t enjoy this!
5 stars!   “Sometimes it seems like everyone knows who I am except me.”   Simon vs. the Homo Sapiens Agenda is one of the best YA books I’ve read in a long while. I started this book (the 6, almost 7 hour audio) and listened to the entire thing in one day. So I pretty much didn’t read at all, just found useless things to do around the house so I could listen. I loved it so hard! Meet Simon… Simon is amazing. Seriously one of the most lovable and endearing heroes ever. I loved everything about hi
Simon vs.
the Homo Sapiens Agenda is one of the best YA books I’ve read in a long while.
I started this book (the 6, almost 7 hour audio) and listened to the entire thing in one day.
So I pretty much didn’t read at all, just found useless things to do around the house so I could listen.
I loved it so hard!
Simon is amazing.
I loved everything about him.
I loved the emails, Simon’s relationship with his friends, his sisters, and his parents.
I loved the narration and highly recommend it!
