https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102095.A_Rendezvous_in_Averoigne
Smith is better than Lovecraft. There. I said it. Don't believe me? Get your hands on this and see for yourself. It's a bit of a splurge, but it's worth it - or you could just borrow mine, if we're friends.
Este señor mola un montón. Es la pura fantasía oscura, mucho mejor que Conan, al que considero más acción y aventura. Es el terror en un mundo fantástico. Nos cuenta distintos relatos en mundos diferentes. En ellos los monstruos están por todos los lados, y no conseguirán nunca huir, ni encontrar zona tranquila.
At the age of 14 I found that my local public library had copies of "Lost Worlds" and "Out of Space and Time", two of the Arkham House collections of CAS's short stories, and I checked them out over and over again.
CAS wrote stories set in exotic locations such as lost Poseidonis (his version of Atlantis), Xothique (the last continent on Earth in the far future), Hyperborea (prehistoric tropical Greenland), in Averoigne (a fictional region of medieval France), and our world.
'A Rendezvous in Averoigne' was published in Weird Tales in 1931 and was part of a series of stories which Ashton Smith set in a mythical country based on twelfth century French and Provencal culture but one where magic, sorcery and devilry are very real and taken at face value.Each story is really a transposition of either a standard pulp horror fiction motif or expands a motif of the era into the pulp genre but always remaining within this closed world where the typical tale involves youthful erotic desire, enchantment and shifts in time to an older pagan era.The resolutions tend not to be very Christian (the central assumption of Averoigne itself) but pagan in their acceptance of fantasy eroticism as a conclusion - at least in some stories.
Ashton Smith may be a less interesting character than Howard perhaps but he is the more consistently good writer
This is a great collection of Clark Ashton Smith's short weird horror stories set in the eponymous region of France. The stories weave together a cohesive region of rural France forgotten by the 'modern' world of the 1930's... Indeed, many of the stories contained within are set in the Middle Ages and make excellent fairy tales.In all a great read for just about anyone fond of myth, magic and weird horror.
Possibly the best collection of work from an author that I've ever had the pleasure of reading. Poetic and morbid at turns; beautiful and remote at others. Clark Ashton Smith was and is one of the most unique and talented voices to write in Science Fiction, Fantasy, Horror, or the Weird.
I have a particular fondness for this book, because I'm the model for several of the illustrations.
It is amazing to me that more people aren't aware of/in love with Clark Ashton Smith's short stories.
I'm amazed so few were adapted to other media (thank you, Richard Corben!) because I kept thinking about what great horror movies a lot of them would make.
The Zothique stories (as is generally agreed) are some of the best, and they're not until the end.
so, once again, I very reluctantly return it to the care of the Rochester Public Library.If you can get your hands on a copy and like gothic horror, this is a great collection of stories!
Great Weird tales in the Lovecraft tradition.
If you're going to have any CAS book, it should probably be this one. The Averoigne stories are great fun.
Read: A Rendezvous in Averoigne. Great vampire story set in France during the medieval period.
A wonderful collecton of CAS tales; eerily illustrated with black and white photos by J. K. Potter; for these alone the books is worth the price.
The entire reason I bought this collection was for one story.
I'd read this book before, it was borrowed from a friend, and there was one story that stuck with me.
And then I was fifteen, so I skimmed the rest.
So now, as a twenty-year-old, I figured that, not only would I enjoy the other stories more, but I could re-enjoy this weird story that I remembered as being totally horrifying, but I must've just made it up or something, because it wasn't in there.
Also I still only liked the Averoigne stories.
Once they got more science fiction-y and stuff...
Not a science-fiction person.
Poco importa que las premisas de algunos de sus relatos resulten un tanto ridículas al principio o que en ocasiones se deje llevar por un torrente de adjetivos hacia sus vástagos, todo eso queda olvidado cuando su pasión por lo que cuenta y su vehemente creencia en ello como autor hace que te dejes llevar y en menos páginas que muchos capítulos de escritores de tremenda popularidad ya estés metido hasta el cuello en su creación.Y cuando llega el final de lo contado, cuando te das cuenta de que la gran mayoría de sus historias (ya sean fantasía más mundana como en el ciclo de Averoigne, la ciencia ficción más oscura delas aventuras en Marte o el terror de muchos de sus otros relatos) tienen finales que no lo son, que te retorcerán las tripas por lo abrupto de su llegada o la falta de lo que se considera un final con mayúsculas, nunca sentí que fuera un defecto de la obra de Ashton Smith.
Great anthology. It's been awhile since I've read CAS, like visiting an old friend. If they had included "Monster of the Prophecy", I would've given it 5 stars
You know, when you read works of the weird and supernatural from this area, you feel you've been cursed - born into an era where the English language has been stripped of its poesy and colourful motion.
Would you describe a man's expression as his "vizard" today?
Or shorten "bewilderment" to "wilderment"?
Where you and I eat food, one once consumed "viands"...This antiquity of writing makes this ghoulish tale, a standard vampire story by any other definition, such a bedazzlement to read.
Dang, it makes me want to use these wonderful words in my own writing.Jolly good show, Mr Smith.
It took me forever to read Clark Ashton Smith’s work, mostly because so much of it is out of print. But I’m glad I finally got to. It’s a perfect blend of horror, fantasy, and sci-fi, often within the same story. The language is grandiloquent and lyric, with a haunting quality.
A man walks into some scary, evil woods. He says, "wow! These are some scary, evil woods." He meets a scary, evil wizard. He says, "wow! This is one scary, evil wizard." The wizard messes him up with some scary, evil magic. The man dies. The end.
Smith wrote absurdly beautiful prose with articulate sentence structures and a rich vocabulary. This is what happens when a poet of the highest degree writes strange stories for fun and profit. His weird fiction is just plain cool and worth emulation.
Doomed, all doomed!
A cute little vampire story from the early 20th century.
