https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13521.Son_of_a_Witch
You will notice, however, that I gave this book five stars.To those who hated it, I say this: I see what your problems are.The story is badly paced (most of the 'action' happens in the last third), the reader spends most of the time being confused as to what's going on (while it is a third person narrative, it is limited third person), some of the characters seemed half-drawn, the narrative is very disconnected (occasionally, emotionless), it completely lacked an ending (...I won't spoil things, but it's left very open ended), and most importantly, that it is nothing like [Wicked].But here's the thing: a book is more than the sum of it's parts.
Liir, son of Elphaba, comes into his own and after 266 pages, he begins to do incredible things to help other people, lead, unite, take the helm of his mother’s legacy.
I love how everyone says to him “if only Elphaba was here to see this…” The Bird Congress aka Witch Nation (charged by Liir to be the eyes of Oz and share info with other species and humans to foil future despots), rides in the shape of a witch on a broom, and Liir rides in the position as the Eye of the Witch.I loved it when he asked Nanny if she thought Elphaba will have a history and she said “She does already, ninnykins!
I love the Wicked series books for the fact that apparently they are "NOTHING LIKE THE PLAY!" to the point that it angers fans of the stage version.
It's like they've been betrayed, tricked into reading this divergence from their beloved baby.
Since the play is based on the book, shouldn't they be upset at the play for switching things up and muddling their grey matter?If they continued on reading the series (which there's no way in hell they would) no doubt this continuation of Maguire's alternative Oz history would further incense them.
Those contemplations bog things down a bit now and then.
An explanation....I liked Wicked and I have read all of Maguire's other books.
Every time a new Maguire book came out, I read it and they seemed to progressively go downhill.
I didn't expect Son of s Witch to be very good, but I wanted to give it a chance.The only reason that this book was possibly written, is due to the success of the stage musical of Wicked.
It is the only possible reason.
Yes, I know that it's a fantasy book, but I couldn't help but feel that Maguire thought that he was being super clever with word play and naming things.
I should have known from the ending of Wicked that it wouldn't get much better.
My hope was that "well, maybe the ending I didn't get in Wicked, I'll get here, and maybe that was the plan all along, to fully revise things in a sequel, as that would be more the author's OWN and he'd be less pigeon-holed."Alas, that wasn't the case.Again, 98% of this book is a great read.
So unless there's a third book on the way, I'm really dissatisfied with the state the story is left in at the very end.
As much as I liked Wicked, I had an inkling I was going to like Son of a Witch even better, especially given the beginning, with the spate of senseless "scrapings" and the discovery of the unconscious boy, who turns out to be Liir, the book's protagonist and the potential son of the Wicked Witch of the West.The beginning was indeed good.
I especially enjoyed the brief time Liir spent with the Yellow Brick Road friends from The Wizard of Oz. I'm a huge WoO nut, but I didn't have any problem whatsoever with the irreverent, perhaps more realistic way the classic characters were handled.
Whatever it was that did not sit well with me from "Wicked" is found tenfold in the pages of "Son of a Witch." At first I thought that it was just Maguire's take on bits of Baum's original story that did not sit well with me ...
I kept reading and hoping that it would get better, that the real story would soon begin, but it didn't and it didn't and it didn't and finally I turned the last page ...
There have been very few times I felt like reading a book was a waste ...
I remember reading this book when I was 11 and being highly disturbed by it.
It's one of the books I remember quite vividly even now and it kinda stuck with me my whole life, but in a very bad way.
I'm still debating whether I should try reading the whole series now that I'm mature enough for it (and have obviously read my fair share of creepy and disgusting books).
The fact that this is a second book in a series where I had not even known the first book existed in the time reading it might also be a factor why I had disliked it so much.
I remember being so confused to what was going on.

Maguire writes books that are impossible to read; as such, I opted to listen to Son of a Witch on tape after failing to get past the 1st few chapters on more than one occasion.
He provides a poorly conceived rambling tale told by an unreliable narrator about an unlikeable wholly self-involved kretin of a main character whose entire drive toward action throughout the story (and that which inspired the story itself as per Maguire's audio interview at the end of the book) is to find his (presumed) half-sister Nor!
I really enjoyed Son of a Witch, despite the feeling that it’s just an interlude in a larger story.
With Wicked, I had lots of preconceptions about the characters, and whilst I liked the slant on them that the book provided, I suppose it did get in the way a bit.
With Son of a Witch, I didn’t have those same obstacles to get past.I enjoyed finding out more about Liir.
I did want to shout at him a few times!There are a lot of loose threads left at the end, so I suspect (hope!) there’s another book in the works.
Deliciosamente bem escrito, assim como Wicked.
Despite Maguire's extremely poor writing style,  Wicked  could at least prop itself up on the familiarity of Baum's characters, but now that we're entirely in original territory it falls flat on its face and stays there.
Despite being written by the author of the original book, it reads like bad  Wicked  fanfic, as mendaciously unimaginative as it is limited in its execution.
I think Maguire may be the only modern author I've read so lacking in talent that he's able to somehow pull this off.
I love the Oz universe, but I don't really like Maguire's style. But for some reason I've read this damn book 2 times.
I read  Son of a Witch because I had read  Mirror Mirror  and  Wicked .
It had a lot more bizarre elements (like the wicked witch of the east having no arms) and a rambling plot.
But Elphaba (the wicked witch of the west) was an interesting character throughout the novel.
The main character, Liir, who may or may not be, but let's face it really  is  Elphaba's son, is two dimensional and bounces around from random event to random event and random choice to random choice.
Frankly, the book is boring, the main character unengaging, and the plot jumpy and unnecessarily gory.
Son of a Witch isn't great book (I would consider Wicked a great book), but it isn't bad.
The problem with Son of a Witch is that it feels like filler to a bigger story.
It does touch upon some of the questions left over from Wicked (despite now being a "series", I don't think Wicked was intended to be anything but a stand alone novel), and it develops the character of Liir.
This seems like Maguire intended to contiinue the series (as he has), but that isn't necessarily fair for the readers.
I really liked wicked, but for some reason I didn't like son of a witch all that much.
Liir is pretty much the complete opposite of what elphaba was, at least in the beginning of the book.
He's religious, timid, signs up for the military, and although it's pretty clear he's doing this to try to figure out who he is,, I didn't like him all that much.
A few questions are answered at the end of the book, but throughout the book you had so many more questions that it hardly mattered.
Kind of I disappointed considering what a great book wicked was.
2.5 stars. Probably the best way to describe this book is disjointed. The pacing is pretty terrible, it's hard to get to know the characters because the story's not told in chronological order, the ending was an anticlimax, and so much of it was just Liir trekking all over freaking Oz that it reached the point where I just didn't give a crap any more. Basically, this was 500 pages of a just-okay story, and I'm really not entirely sure why I bothered to finish it because I was ambivalent towards it for at least 75% of the book...
I can usually power my way through any book, especially fiction, but as much as it galls me to do so, I'm giving up on this fucker right here.
I started this book 10 days ago, and I'm only 120 pages in, which is an indication of how little I'm enjoying it.
Absolutely fucking anything else.
I don't hate this character, and I'm not just neutral towards him, it's more like I have an actively hostile ambivalence.
Whatever it was about the other characters I liked in Wicked seems to be entirely absent here.
Fuck this dull, formless, grey goo abomination.
Upon her recovery, she found that her child had been born; she took vows as a maunt, remaining at the mauntery for several years after that before leaving with a strange young boy for the castle of Kiamo Ko, whose lord had been Fiyero, occupied now by his wife and children and their retainers.Son of a Witch continues the story begun with Wicked, after the fall of the WOO (Wizard of Oz) and Elphaba's death.
Son of a Witch is the story of how Liir (the Witch’s son), lived his life after the Witch’s death in an Oz that is under new leadership now that the Wizard is gone.
Wicked was the Witch’s story and we all know what happens to her at the end.
As another reviewer put it, it did seem to be an “interlude in a bigger story.” After reading this I am curious to know what happens in Out of Oz. How will this bigger political story conclude?
I realized that half way through the book, not a lot had happened, and I could tell that the pace wouldn't be picking up.
None of the mysteries were solved, though there were traces throughout the book that it would come much much later.
The character wasn't particularly likable.
It was hard to like or empathize with a character so simple and selfish.
Eventually, he changed a little, but for the most part, Liir lacked any trace of personality either of his parents (?) had in the first book.
This book is about The Wicked Witch of the West's alleged son, Liir.
Liir was a boring character, but if you were going to write a sequel to Wicked, I guess you had to start somewhere.
I mildly enjoyed the book because it featured reprisals of such characters as Glinda, Princess Nastoya, Nanny, and others from Wicked, including Shell who was only talked about in Wicked.
The story, however, was rambly and boring.
I wouldn't have gone on reading it if I didn't simply want to know where Gregory Maguire was going with it, and the homosexual relationship that developed certainly helped.

I had to keep my Elphaba fix going.
This is the second book of the Wicked series and is centered around Liir, a character from Wicked.This still did not tie up any loose ends.
The first book left a very frayed rope.
I was already warned from a friend when I started Son of a Witch that I would still be left with quite a few questions and very few answers which, of course, means that I have to move on to book 3.The book was an easy read and I read it quickly.
New characters are introduced and there are a few familiar faces.
I didn't feel the intensity of Wicked in this sequel but I was happy to be going back to Oz.
Well written, a solid sequal, but for me a bit of a disappointment. Liir, the "son of a witch" is carrying on after Fabala's death and quite frankly, I expected more of him. The Green Witch remained magical despite Maguire's literary attempts to humanize her and the World of Oz. Or rather, I should say, his attempts to display Oz for a world beyond the everyday transactions of school, politics and relationships. Magic was uncommon but practiced, and in Fabala's case it was inherent. I guess I hoped that Liir would have inherited some more of her fire...
Even if the Wicked Years is a fictional series, Wicked and Son of a Witch have conveyed messages in such a way that no nonfiction book can.
I have to agree that Wicked is better written than Son of a Witch, and I think I know why.
In all the other books he has written, Gregory Maguire based his story on something else.
Anyways, Son of a Witch has a perfect ending, even if it leaves some questions unanswered, which is to be expected, since there is a sequel.
Maguire doesn't have the same structure and plot as he does in 'Wicked'; however this is because we aren't seeing a different side of the story such as with Elphaba, we are watching Liir grow up.
Some points of the plot weren't the most interesting thing but I think that can be due to Liir's character.What really gave the book it's 4-star rating for me was the major contrast between Liir and the other characters we have encountered in Maguire's Oz (mainly Elphaba, through Wicked).
Therefore although I believe that on the plot alone, Maguire fails to live up to 'Wicked', however bringing in Liir's personality I think that it is an interesting afterthought.
It is really hard to compare Wicked and Son of a Witch due to so many differences.
Elphaba was born with certain character while Liirs birth is still some kind of mistery and his character was close to non-existent in the first book.I gave Son of a Witch 3.5 stars because it was quite good way of making Liir his own history.
I was happy to still find so many points connecting the story to the Wicked (the plot concerning Time Dragon or Yackle), it made this book quite good sequell.
Really liked this book and found it an easier read than the Wicked book itself. Didn't really enjoy the chapter about his time as a soldier as not really my interest but really liked the rest. Love delving more into Oz's history and getting to know the characters more, glad that some of the previous people in Wicked were in this one and you got to know new things about them aswell. Plus I loved the ending which I won't divulge but didnt see it coming which is always a bonus
