https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/290112.Lady_Sings_the_Blues
Touching story! unbelievable,interesting,amazing,lyrical Goddess,captivating and factually correct information about the 'real' Billie Holiday..
Touching story! unbelievable,interesting,amazing,lyrical goddess,captivating and factually correct information about the 'real' Billie Holiday (paperback!)
This book is great, regardless of the ghost writing and the liberties with the "truth".
I read it years ago but have been listening to Lady Day all evening.Plus it gives me the chance to post this performance again which, as I have said before, is the greatest musical performance I have ever had the pleasure of seeing.
Not only from Billie, of course, but good god that is a line up - Young, Webster, Hawkins etc etc etc - just perfection and completely heartbreakingly beautiful.So if you have never watched this, get your headphones on and prepare to fall in love https://youtu.be/Jf0ldEBBJhY
I have no idea what people say or don't about this book, I think its beautiful. I have never really gotten much into Billie Holiday, but I will after reading this book. I love her for it, and will definitely listen to her more. I didn't know she had written Strange Fruit, which is a song I have heard more in the Nina Simone interpretation, or Dont explain, which is one of my favourite songs ever ever.Thank you Billie for this book! (Wherever she is)
I have no idea what people say or don't about this book, I think its beautiful. I have never really gotten much into Billie Holiday, but I will after reading this book. I love her for it, and will definitely listen to her more. I didn't know she had written Strange Fruit, which is a song I have heard more in the Nina Simone interpretation, or Don´t explain, which is one of my favourite songs ever ever.Thank you Billie for this book! (Wherever she is)
My mom was a jazz band singer in the same era as Billie Holiday.
All the young singers were in awe of Billie, according to Mom, but her addiction was well-known.
Her nickname in the music trade was "Miss Needles." The music industry in the late 1930's and early 1940's was one of the few places where whites and African-Americans could mingle freely -- Mom was white and worked with many persons of color.
Mom hated that and worked for civil rights all her life.
Her insights into band era life were so very interesting.
there are voices which upset you.
The very sizeable newspaper "Le Monde" titrated : is it still necessary to listen to Sarah Vaughan?
Billie, I can only listen to her records.
There are in its voice so much sensuality and suffering.
And her life is a succession of trial.
Woman, artist and black, she undermined serious handicaps.
In round with Benny Goodman, she could not use the toilets, because she was black.
Billy became Lady, and Edward Ellington the Duke.Which courage, which determination.
And when I listen to Billie, I understand that the life is a combat.
It helps to have some historical perspective on this book as you read it.
But it's also important to keep in mind that the book is not always precisely truthful, perhaps for lots of personal, historical, and publishing reasons.
I think it's best read for the general history, impressions/truths it creates, not as a literal record of specific facts about Billy Holiday's life and works.
It's a good way to introduce those who might not be familiar with Billy Holiday and the history of Jazz to the voice of Billy and as a stepping stone for learning more.
Normally, I would mark this book as a 3, possibly 4, star work, but there are two severe complications in that regard.
As a fan of Holiday and her art, this is a maddening situation, as her truth was stranger, and stronger, than this fiction.
Not only that, but she is an important, canonical artist in jazz's development, and to hear the truth of that experience, with rendering assistance from an expert co-writer (William Dufty, for better or worse, ghostwrites here besides his co-writing) would have laid the groundwork for a pivotal jazz work worthy of 5 stars.
It is important, but not nearly enough in the proper ways.
Eleanora was raised by family while her mother worked; her childhood was painful and short.
At 13 Eleanora was working as a prostitute, by 14 she was singing her unique style of jazz as Billie Holiday in Brooklyn clubs.
In "Lady Sings the Blues" Billie Holiday tells us her story in her own, bold words.
There were parts of her story that made me cringe, others that left me behind.
The stories are not necessarily shared chronologically and words aren't wasted on clarifications.
Either you know who and what Ms. Holiday is talking about or you don't.
Bought the paperback years ago for a couple of dollars but didn't read it until now.
Then there's the limitations arising from 1) the hurry to publish in order to generate money to defend drug charges and 2) the suppression of 20-30% of the original manuscript by folks with business interests in Lady Day. None of those factors count in the end.
Billie's testimony on music, poverty, racism, sexual and physical exploitation, and the selective criminalization of drugs is priceless.
So much of today's madness makes sense after seeing into the world in which Billie Holiday lived.
I read every music biography and autobiography I can get my hands on.
My biggest takeaway: music is by definition political.
Lendo esse livro, dá pra entender porque Billie cantava como cantava. Quanta aventura, quanto sofrimento! Racismo, drogas, falsidade de amigos e amantes, prisões, coração partido, estupros, tragédias familiares, fome. Billie realmente passou por tudo, e todo esse sentimento estava na música que criou e que é tão (inutilmente) imitada. Depois de virada a última página, você vai lamentar nunca tê-la conhecido ou visto de perto, no palco, ou tocado com ela, ou bebido com ela.
Excecional. Na verdade este livro não é uma autobiografia desta grande cantora. É "apenas" a versão de Billie Holiday sobre a sua própria vida, sem grande rigor histórico mas que acaba por ser emocionante. Esta senhora teve uma vida duríssima, triste e marcada pelo racismo e descriminação. Depois deste livro entende-se bem as palavras de "strange fruit". Recomendo.
I prefer her as a musician rather than as an author.
This was a patchy book with missing pieces.
I was aware that there was more than one author since the writing flow and style was often jerky.
Also, this book seemed to me to be a mix of authenticity and untruth.
I think, to capture her life, listen to her voice and read other facts and other biographies about her.
The movie did not add much for me, I did not care for it.
Add all of that to this "memoir" and authenticity peeks through.
I can understand her the most by listening to her voice.
The best part about this book is the language in which it is written and the era it represents.
Unfortunately the admission in the book's foreword that confirms that the validity of it's claims are rightly disputed.
This tends to tint the whole book a little as the reader is left to try and decide which parts are fiction and which aren't.
Still, even if some of the tales are a little tall, it is still an opportunity to hear from a unique performer in a unique style.
I absolutely loved this book! It felt like Billie was talking to me herself. Next to Ella she is my favourite Jazz singer. I love her versions of Good Morning Heartache and Crazy He Calls Me.
When I read the introduction by David Ritz about controversies of just how much ghost-writing Billie’s good friend William Dufty provided and the question of the veracity of the book, I was a bit disappointed.
Yet, as I read on, I grew to love Billie’s voice (or Dufty’s?) and realized that anyone’s memoirs could be scrutinized.
Besides, Billie’s account of her life hardly can be said to portray her as innocent.
Like this one: “You can get in just as much trouble by being dumb and innocent as you can by breaking the law.” But, don’t kid yourself.
Starting with her mother's pregnancy with the singer at thirteen years old, Holiday paints her poverty ridden childhood with so much color and life it's hard to accept the heartbreaking reality of her being a prostitute and nearly raped at age ten (for which she was thrown in prison and then a nunnery).
The reader follows her through a visit to her unimaginable "childhood" to tours where she is ridden with bladder infections because she's not allowed to urinate where white people are, so it forces her to pee outside all year round, to her imprisonments for narcotics, brief work in film, her struggle with men and her love for and death of her mother.
This review at the San Francisco Chronicle says that the book is full of "factual inaccuracies and exaggerations" but "captures [Holiday's] tart voice and unflinching eye," and that Dufty's "aim was to let Holiday tell her story her way." It sounds like a lot of the events didn't happen as described, but perhaps most of the opinions the narrator expresses are really Holiday's -- even the ones I wish weren't.
I'd have to read a thorough biography of her to have a better idea, I suppose.The main opinion I hope wasn't really Holiday's is the narrator's attitude about lesbians.
Can never be another Lady Day!!Her style was entirely her own, distinctive, hauntingUnimaginably smooth and unforgettable. She sang straight from her heart. If you heard a song sung by her you never liked it sung by anyone else, she owned it. Just imagine how different and how much better her life would have been if the law hadn’t dogged and harassed her. She was sick, not a criminal. A good book about a great Lady.
Without a doubt one of the most recognizable voices in the jazz-scene (and possibly the most powerful), Billie Holiday’s autobiography is just as wonderful and emotional as her vocal work.“Lady Sings the Blues” is as diverse, bewildering and touching as her music.
But reading about the tragedies that befell her, yet simultaneously hearing the sober, nonchalant and at times surprisingly funny and heartwarming tone with which topics are discussed, adds up to quite a reading experience.Even if everything described in this book would not be entirely true, it makes for a great story nonetheless.
koji su strastveni ljubitelje biografija in general ( kao što sam ja)Bilo je teško oceniti ovu knjigu....u pitanju je ipak nečiji život a smatram da je nerealno isti karakterisati sa dosadno/uzbudljivo, dobro/ loše, 1/2//5 zvezdica..Pa evo negativnih strana: Ono što je presudilo u korist prosečne ocene jeste činjenica da, uprkos tome što knjiga daje lep i prilično uverljiv uvid u džez scenu , je dosta podataka sumnjivog porekla, neprecizno, rekla kazala - počevši od najosnovnijih kao što su poreklo Lejdi Dej .
This was a riot. A sad, moving riot.
This memoir, ghostwritten purportedly in Lady Day's speaking style, was an eerie, engaging account of her life.
This edition is preceded by an intro that mentions the above about the book's authorship, that it has fielded criticism for taking liberties with the truth, and details about Ms Holiday's demise that lent a certain dramatic irony to the reading that I at times resented (e.g., wondering whether this or that unbelievable anecdote is indeed true) but in the end appreciated.
I'm glad I read this, though the writing style (and, frankly, the knowledge that some of what I read isn't exactly true) has left me wanting to read/watch more about Ms. H to fill in the gaps.
I might have over rated it by a star...
I'm currently enamoured with memoirs.
Lady's memoir is particularly honest and gritty at the same time.
It provides a vivid picture of racism and poverty that most black people went through in the middle twentieth century.
My father tells me he remembers seeing separate bathrooms and water fountains when his parents went to Memphis for a vacation...
Trying to help her father and mother.
In spite of many raw experiences with love she is always open to trying again.
She sings because she has too and the words in her memoir tell us why.
Touching autobiography. As a recovered heroin addict, I am amazed at the stories of other addicts. Billie faced things in her life that I cannot even imagine, as she had to use the back door for performances in the South, as the police cramped down on opiates, given permission through the Harrison Tax Act, and they clamped down on Billie, only after she released Strange Fruit. Damn, Billie was an amazing woman. So full of sadness, pain, joy, and love...
I read this years ago and still remember it. Felt like Billie had gotten off the page and was having an intimate conversation with me. Loved it, loved it, loved it. She got knocked down a lot as you'll see. One of the parts that really sickened me was when she was set to perform at a venue and had to use the bathroom, but they wouldn't let her because she was black. Aaaagh! But the woman, incredibly, still kept her sense of humor and strength throughout.
"I've been told that nobody sings the word 'hunger' like do. Or the word 'love'...All I've learned is wrapped up in those two words. You've got to have something to eat and a little love in your life before you can hold still for any damn body's sermon on how to behave. Everything I am and everything I want out of life goes back to that."It's been 60 years since Holiday published her autobiography, and we still haven't internalized this lesson.
No son sólo las memorias de una de las cantantes más destacadas del jazz, es el retrato de una época. Es un libro sobre racismo, sobre injusticia, sobre amor.Te ayudará a entender por qué Billie cantaba como cantaba."Me han dicho que nadie canta la palabra hambre como yo. Ni la palabra amor. Tal vez yo recuerde lo que quieren decir esas palabras. Ni todos los Cadillac y visones del mundo -y he tenido unos cuantos- pueden lograr que las olvide."
A wonderful read. Lady Day was strong, vulnerable, funny and a very smart person. She had a big heart and an enormous gift. It was a tragic day the day she died. But through her singing and through these words she lives on without the vulnerability. A truly amazing person!
True or not, it really captivated me.
