https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/787184.The_Bridges_at_Toko_ri
Only 22 people have added books to it.
It’s sad to think how little Americans know about it.
“Sky” covers the mission of destroying four Communist supply bridges by air.
This is a sad and realistic portrayal of the war when one of the planes goes down on land and the pilot survives the crash but finds himself in enemy territory.
Apparently this book is looked at as anti-war.
That’s why, one of these days, we’ll knock out the bridges at Toko-ri.” Guess to me, that’s not so much anti-war as the truth.
Read it in a day.
I love James Michener-- one of my favorite authors! A short book about the Korean War, and the pain and loss that are due to war. Sad.
Writes about the Americans fighting the Korean War in the early 1950s.
The content is divided into three sections - SEA: in which we are introduced to the characters on an aircraft carrier in the Sea of Japan, east of the Korean peninsula; LAND: in which the men of war take a shore leave in Yokosuka, Japan, before their final assault; AIR: in which we are led through their mission to destroy the heavily-guarded four bridges at Toko-ri in North Korea.Characterization is present even in such a small book, which makes it more touching.
"Where did we get such men?"This is a brief but epic look at those sent to fight our wars: their motivations, their fears, and their sacrifices. The novel is set among Navy pilots during the Korean War, but the characters would easily fit into the present.For someone like me, used to Michener's massive epics, it is a blazingly fast read, with characters you lose far too soon.I highly recommend it.
I really wanted to like this book, I really did, but it was just so plain boring!
A stirring tribute to heroism and sacrifices of U.S. Naval aviators of the Korean War, with thrilling action scenes and compelling characters (LT Harry Brubaker, green hat-wearing Mike, Beer Barrel, "Cag," the Admiral, etc.) alike.--from the introduction by Steve Berry: "They were poor, barely able to put food on the table.
And though he eventually earned hundreds of millions of dollars from writing, he always feared ending up poor."--(also from Introduction): “As the stars came out and I could see the low mountains I had escaped, I swore: ‘I’m going to live the rest of my life as if I were a great man.’ And despite the terrible braggadocio of those words, I understood precisely what I meant.”--(also from the Introduction): "The treatment proved painful in a multitude of ways, perhaps the most difficult being that it prevented him from straying far from home.
That’s what integrity and heroism is all about, and it’s respectable.For being such a short novella (barely over a hundred pages) I’m surprised James managed to fit in some characterization in these sparse pages, enough for you to feel for the people in this war tale.The book is split into three sections.
And finally SKY: where the actual mission takes place, but of course, encountering multiple obstacles.I think overall the account paints a realistic portrayal of war.
In the words of the General: "All through history, men have had to fight the wrong war in the wrong place, but that's the one they're stuck with."PS.
In this novel Michener, himself a US Navy veteran of the Pacific theater in World War II, tells the story of a naval aviation mission to knock out the bridges at Toko-Ri in North Korea, a vital pass where the supplies of North Korea and China are funneled, and which was consequently well guarded by communist forces.Michener is a master storyteller, and in this short novel, he carries on the tradition.
The main character is a Naval Aviator, a lawyer in civilian life, who is hand-picked to conduct the mission to knock out the bridges at Toko Ri. He resents having to serve in combat at a time when most of America is oblivious to the war and unconcerned about its outcome.
At only 124 pages long, I think this book qualifies as a Michener short story.
Fantastic book.Finished this book on my way to the theater to see Dunkirk.These are the kinds of books (and Dunkirk would be the kind of movie) that my grandparents used to like.It takes one back to a bygone era of selfless patriots, while at the same time reflecting the ever-present reality of the undue burden of war on those few patriots.
Even in a book oozing with American pride, Michener condemns bi-coastal elites in San Francisco and Manhattan.
Sound familiar?Whether you're part of the bi-coastal crew, or the ones who bear the burden of war, or neither, or both, this is a solid, quick read.
At barely over 100 pages, this brilliant novella packs enough punch to completely lay waste to the famous movie adaptation starring William Holden and Grace Kelly. It's a sobering account of modern warfare, a celebration of the human spirit, and a philosophical treatise on the nobility of sacrifice. At times, the book gives you a rush similar to reading a Tom Clancy novel or watching TOP GUN; at others, it gets under your skin and quietly breaks your heart.
Set during the Korean War, the story recounts the activities of a group known as Task Force 77 and the pilots who fly.
I think there is something to be said for reading a book later, just for enjoyment rather than requirements.
If a book about the ugliness of war can be read for enjoyment.
But seriously, this focuses on a small group of individuals and one gets a sense of their joys and fears and struggles.
Unlike most of Michener's other books, this is a short and quick read at 126 pages.
Ziemlich schlicht gestricktes Heldenlied, das als zusätzlicher Handlungsstrang von Sayonara vielleicht eine gute Figur gemacht hätte, aber auf sich gestellt doch etwas eindimensional daher kommt.Von daher ein Stern, auch wenn sämtliche, nicht allzu hoch gesetzten, Ziele, sicherlich erreicht wurden.
As the daughter of a Korean War vet, I try to read as much as I can about the war that changed my father forever and defined his life. This short novel is nontypical Michener--pithy, focused, unwieldy. It portrays the gritty choices war forces upon a man who, just like most men, wants to be home with his family.Michener is my father's favorite author.
I must be frank that I first read this book when I was aboard a troop ship returning from Korea. It was my introduction to James Michener. Obviously I am not capable of a judgment apart but I do believe this is a fine story marvelously well-told. "The Bridges at Toko-Ri," is authentic of a part of the Korea experience for young Americans.
A terrific book that keeps you engrossed with its sharp writing. Hope to read more of the author in the near future.
Right when I started reading this book I thought it was going to be a waste of time and I wouldn't enjoy it at all.
The bad thing about this book was that there was lots of boring parts and I could only comprehend when there was conflict.
One thing that went well in the book was that they did a good job introducing the main characters in a unique way.
The feelings I felt while reading this book were mainly bored and lost because it was hard to understand what was going on in certain parts.
The Story starts with Brubaker and his squadron returning to the USS Savo a Aircraft Carrier, his jet damaged from a unknown cause had crashed into the ice cold Korean Seas he waited for awhile before a US Helicopter appeared and appeared and its crew rescued him from his predicament.
Brubaker is able to see his family living happily in Japan, and a few days of fun, the return to sea, as they prepare to bomb a very risky mission, to bomb the bridges at Toko-ri.
Wonderfully descriptive and great character development - one of my favorites, the "hulking giant" Beer Barrel, "a farmer from Texas who before the perilous days of 1943 had never seen the ocean, but he possessed a fabulous ability to sense the motion of the sea and what position the carrier deck would take...
Forney is a helicopter pilot who is known for "wearing an opera hat painted green, a Baron von Richthofen scarf of kelly green, and a clay pipe jammed into his big teeth." Ditched pilots feel a sense of ease at the scene of their catastrophe when they see those Irish symbols and they know Forney is on the job.
Each character is masterfully developed - you feel like you know each one personally.
Harry Brubaker, a twenty-nine-year-old lawyer from Denver, Colorado, was alone in a spot he had never intended to defend in a war he had not understood.
In his home town at that moment the University of Colorado was playing Denver in their traditional basketball game.
The stands were crowded with more than 8,000 people and not one of them gave a damn about Korea.
And in New York thousands of Americans were crowding into the night clubs where the food was expensive, but hardly anywhere in the city except in a few homes whose men were overseas was there even an echo of Korea."
Thank you.126p of brilliant, patriotic, sardonic fury which successfully predicts the present day debacle against, nominally, non-nation state combat actors.Korean War was the precursor to the Forever War in the Middle East?
Yeah, that went on for awhile.(depending on your bent, insert rant about the astute observation via Romney v.
Maybe that's just the power of Michener?Anyhow, if you got brutal dooks, an upcoming doctor, or DOL, waitroom sortie; or lover of the public transit then yeah this a good lil' one to _mix it up_.
(insert rant against "smart" sometimes left leaning pop-"serious study" book on any topic; w/ attached rant about the thin veneer of serious inquiry to the serious topic)

War. Does it matter when war takes place or where? Is the Korean War from 1950 any different from a current war? Does a soldier find himself like Brubaker or his wife in today's time?These were the questions I asked myself while I read this story. No matter when it takes palace. For each generation, we have a war that defines us and maybe we forget about the wars that were fought long ago. This story had me thinking/pondering the risk/lost/despair soldiers and families go through no matter if it's 1950 or 2017.
Despite being over 50 years old, I found this novel aged very well. It is grounded in American culture of the 1950s, but its the real culture of the 50s (fear, doubt, exhaustion) and not the whitewashed, overly optimistic America that contemporary culture often projects onto the period. The central dilemma of the novel, a pilot's conflict between fear and duty in pursuing a difficult target with dubious strategic effects in a war that America neither knows nor cares much about could easily apply to the modern war on terror.
This was me dipping my toe into the Michener pool to see if his style is intriguing enough to wade into some of his lengthier works.
I think I will give it a go.
I will say, though, that the narrator in this book is DRRRRRRY!
At times I honestly thought it might be a computer just reading the words.
No inflection, no voices for different characters, no change in intensity, pace, or volume ever.
There were moments that really fell flat due to the terrible reading.
I think I'll stick to the physical books since this guy narrates nearly all of Michener's books.
This a very real book about the Korean War. it made me sad to read it because the vets felt they were fighting a war no one cared about. They were treated badly during and after the war. It broke my heart to read about the guy lost at sea that they rescued and then the guy who died with three others when his plane went down. Everyone should read this short book to understand what our troops do for our country.
Where did we get such men?A short book. First James Michener book I have read. It is about American men who fought in the Korean War that began in 1950 and ended three years later. The novel is based on actual missions against railroad bridges in North Korea. There was also a movie in 1954 by the same name, with William Holden and Grace Kelly.
This is a short little Korean War novel. U.S. Navy Lieutenant Harry Brubaker has been called back into service and is assigned to a mission to take out the bridges at Toko-Ri. A novel showing the dangers and tragedies of war. Made into a movie in 1954. Read a copy of the hardbound copy in our local public library when I was a kid.
Having lived through Viet Nam era in the states, I was surprised to see much the same attitude by war non-participants during the Korean conflict. The melancholy nature of the story carried through from beginning to end. This was not the same Michener I have enjoyed in his numerous historical novels.
I've never read any Michener before and have never been much for war stories, but this was decent. Entirely US-centric of course, but not in an exceptionalism sort of way. While it doesn't pack the cynicism of MASH, it does question the worth of war while still championing the men (and women back home) doing their best despite the damage all around them.
