https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5174.Fall_on_Your_Knees
Stupid people read books because Oprah says so.
Other stupid people won't read a book just because Oprah picked it to be part of her club.
The people in the second group will never read this awesome book, and I don't feel sorry for them because they don't deserve it.
They will now whine about the little blemish in the same way they whine when the book they now want to read has just been made into a movie and only comes with a movie cover.
Episch familiedrama gesitueerd in Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia, rond 1900...pijnlijk, rauw...daardoor ook mooi...De jonge pianostemmer James wordt verliefd op de dertienjarige Materia...Haar ouders staan niet achter haar keuze en ze worden verbannen.
Ze leven bewust geisoleerd...door het leeftijdsverschil en het verschil in karakter, voelt James weerzin voor Materia.
Hij richt al zijn hoop en liefde op hun eerstgeboren dochter Kathleen.
Zij heeft 'de stem', hij onderwijst haar en haar volledige onderricht is gericht op haar ontwikkeling en haar carrière.
Dit vormt ook haar karakter.
Alle gebeurtenissen die volgen vloeien hier uit voort...de gebeurtenissen (ik verklap niets...) zijn heftig, rauw...mooi...Een briljant debuut...een aanrader!!
MacDonald covers just about every topic in her book: racial tension, isolation, domestic abuse, and forbidden love, which leads to incest, death, and even murder, but does it in a very complicated way that will turn many readers away.
I consider myself a strong reader-one who has fantastic reading comprehension but this book tests even the strongest of readers.
It was ridiculous.I consider myself pretty open to reading just about anything but this one just was too much....I think I'll stick to my VC Andrews for my abuse and incest stories.
Out of the 69 titles that she chose only 13 (19%) have appeared in at least any of the three (2006, 2008, 2010) editions of Boxall’s 1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die:4 by TONI MORRISON (Beloved, The Bluest Eye, Sula and Song of Solomon)  2 by CHARLES DICKENS (A Tale of the Two Cities and Great Expectations)2 by GABRIEL GARCIA MARQUEZ (One Hundred Years of Solitude and Love in the Time of Cholera) 1 each by LEO TOLSTOY (Anna Karenina), ALAN PATTON (Cry, My Beloved Country), JONATHAN FRANZEN (The Corrections), BARBARA KINGSOLVER (The Poisonwood Bible), BERNARD SCHLINK (The Reader), and ANN-MARIE MACDONALD.
I was in a super geeky frame of mind when I read this book in early spring of 2012.
I had been reading books about metaphors (see I told you...
I literally started writing down metaphors I came across in the prose of this book...
I'm talking about brilliant metaphors,that blow my mind!!"...
WORTH READING.
Worth reading twice.
His young wife, their children and later the story of the children's lives...
Opet poetska kanadska autorka i opet veliko MUST READ... Ovakve knjige pamtite dugo nakon što ste ih pročitali i preporučujete je dalje... Nažalost, ne postoji srpski prevod...
This book reminded me of a grown-up VC Andrews, except you can read it on the subway without feeling like a pervy 12 year-old. Very Gothic at times and the crazy family drama had me reading non-stop, despite all the main characters being unlikeable assholes in one way or another. One thing that bugged me was that some of the writing didn't seem historically accurate. Did people in the 1920s really say "barf?" Maybe they did, I don't know. Regardless, I couldn't put this down and I blew through it in a couple days.
The story follows the Piper family, a unique little set up of father and four daughters.
Kathleen, the eldest of the girls, has been sent away to live out her father's vision of fame and perfection with her glorious voice.
Each girl has their own story which is brimming with secrets that are both outrageous and real.
Every story is intertwined in surprising and unexpected ways.
If you can stomach some harsh, dramatic reality with believable characters in a world covered with a dark veil of the unexpected, then this book may be the right way to go.
There are a thousand stories in here and none get developed.
This book is like taking first rate ingredients and putting them all together in a stew without any thought to how they will taste together.She piles dysfunction on top of dysfunction on top of dysfunction so that something that is initially interesting becomes histrionic and then just plain tedious.I will try another novel of hers at some point and see if she has been able to direct her talent into something more cohesive, whole and ultimately satisfying.
Fall on Your Knees, set in Cape Breton at in the first half of the 20th century, tells the story of Materia, Kathleen, Mercedes, Frances, and Lily - i.e. all the women of the Piper family.
Not like a fallen woman who makes people laugh.
Whom Mercedes loves."When reading some of the reviews, the aspect that I have picked up on most is that people have read this because it was an Oprah bookclub read.
Mercedes is neither a saint nor a sinner.
Actually, I give this sort of a three b/c the author's style was oddly skillful, as a story though, it left a bitter taste in my mouth.
The forgiveness between him and Frances at the end was somewhat redeeming -- sort of.
The way Frances sent Lilly out into the world was weird.
And the ending was unsatisfying regarding every character, except for Frances's son.Hmm...I think I'll be puzzling over this one for awhile, and maybe that was the author's goal.
I guess the best way to describe this book is mostly interesting, and extremely unsettling.
In DROWNING RUTH, the whole idea of a mentally-ill and controlling aunt (Amanda) ruining the life of her little niece (Ruth) after the girl's mother (Mathilda) mysteriously fell through the ice and drowned one cold winter eve was merely depressing; in FALL ON YOUR KNEES, however,the pervading theme of incest was more than distressing, it was just downright gross (and this is from an open-minded reader NOT easily shocked or bothered by sexual content!) Although I am always interested in reading books that deal with sensitive and even shocking topics (sometimes this makes a book more interesting!), I just don't find a need to experience incest in such poetic prose!There's one thing I don't get - in the description on the back cover, the story is called "menacingly dark and hilariously funny" and it is also called "darkly humorous".
She hooked me instantly with her ability to get inside childhood, and her searingly real portraits of life in the 1960s, with the bonus of superb storytelling acumen and writing that is a pleasure to read.
I read Fall on Your Knee second and had that wonderful enjoyment of a second shot of a writer who you liked so much the first time you didn't think you could have that pleasure again.
If I had to compare her to another writer, it would be Annie Proulx for her ability to give great reading plasure from the darkest of stories.
This book left me wanting to slash my wrists-- especially when I think about the time I spent reading it that I can never get back.
The characters are shallow,self-involved and just plain crazy and while I realize that this is just like the people you meet in your everyday I life, it doesn't necessarily mean I want to read about them unless they are delivered in a well-written story that makes them shine a little.
This is not that kind of story.Reading this book (and I persisted because I am an open-minded reader) was like trudging through mud.
i just noticed because i wanted to see if anyone else found this novel picaresque.
(hide spoiler)]it is also an extraordinarily quirky and strange novel, though i've seen reviewers say that it is a straight and ordinary read.
frances' adventures, while fascinating and absolutely crazy, didn't draw me in enough to pull long reading stretches and i think that overall the novel might have gained from being shorter and on fewer tracks.
this story belongs to mercedes, frances, and lily.
if you are reading it for the lesbian story you'll have to wait a good long time, because it takes place at the very end.
The historical detail, layers of generations and depth of the characters draw you in as you live their lives with them.Fall on Your Knees is a story of a family from Cape Breton, Nova Scotia.
Perhaps MacDonald has been wronged by a number of men in her life....if that is so it shows in FYK.Not quite sure how to end this....it is an excellent book..but now as I am remembering all the events that occured and the hurt and pain I felt through mere words on a page perhaps once was enough.
This is a novel set in a coal mining community in Canada and spans from before World War I, through the roaring 20s, and the great depression, as it follows the story of the Piper family.
It follows the characters of James Piper as he marries his child bride Materia, who comes from a conservative Catholic Lebonese family, and due to the scandal of their marriage, is disinherited.
But, even besides all of the above, I actually found myself to be bored while reading this.
I really wanted to start skim reading at one point, and then really contemplated giving up on it altogether.
I loved this book! It was beautiful, witty, poignant, sad and educational.James was a sick,sick man. Families can really have so many dark secrets.
Incest is at the core, which hobbles and fractures the family over a time horizon spanning the dawn of the twentieth century to the 1950'sPivotal events such as Kathleen's tragic birthing of twins and its series of catastrophic aftershocks, Frances' shooting and the events that precede and follow, the unravelling of what happened to Kathleen in New York - are all launching points to move the story forward and grip the reader in a non-stop read.The four sisters emerge gradually from their childhood as the indistinguishable offspring of James Piper, into fully flushed characters with different personalities and histories over the time span of this novel.
We both love wildly different styles of books, so we each choose one of our favourites and make the other person read it.
This was her choice (I made her read A game of thrones in case you're wondering).I hated this book for it's subject matter and content.
(roughly the last third was fantastic, but she skipped over so many things that by the end I was more than a little disappointed.)I didn't give a damn about any of the characters, couldn't identify with the setting and felt like the last third of the book, with it's incredibly different tone, would have better stood as it's own book.That being said I love the author's turn of phrase.
I know so many people loved it, but when I saw it come up on Oprah's book list I just wanted to die.
So much was happening, but being written about in the most boring way possible.
It didn't hold my interest, which is rare since as a Canadian I was brought up on the typical Canadian novel diet.
It amazes me how so many Canadian writers can write books where lots of big important things happen, yet do it in a way that just makes them so b.o.r.i.n.g. It also amazes me that this is what passes for a good Canadian novel.
One of those cases that I wonder if I read a different book than everyone else. I’m not going to give this book anymore of my time by writing a detailed review. The only reason I’m giving it two stars is because I did actually finish it and the beginning was interesting. Then it just dragged on and on until my eyes glazed over. Nope.
What a fabulous year 2018 is turning out to be, as far as books are concerned. I had the pleasure of reading A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, by Betty Smith, for the first time this year. Same with The Last Samurai, by Helen DeWitt. Fantastic novels, both of them, of course, and I had waited far too long. And now this. This!Crazy.I'm in love again. With a book. Again.
Rose che ad un certo punto di questo libro, quasi alla fine, devo dire, conoscerete, dice una cosa che mi ha colpita ma con la quale posso solo parzialmente dichiararmi d' accordo:  "Non sono una compositrice.
"Allora la scriva" e lei "No" "Perché" ho chiesto."Perché così uccidi l' uccello" fa lei.Rose ha ragione, per un certo verso, non si può mai replicare la magia di un singolo momento in musica, per quanto tu possa riascoltare sempre e sempre la stessa canzone, ogni secondo che passa in ogni riascolto avrà una valenza diversa.Però, appunto per questo, anche se la musica è sempre quella, sempre la stessa successione di note, cambia la maniera in cui "ci veste".
A volte poi i dialoghi non sono nemmeno virgolettati.Ma per il grande impatto che dà la storia, ad Ann-Marie si perdona tutto.La V stellina è perché l'intera vicenda si svolge nel mio amato Canada, e più precisamente nella Nova Scotia, dove ho passato 6 mesi della mia vita..
:)Ah, la V stellina è anche per il fatto che la famiglia di Materia ha origine arabe, dal Libano, più precisamente, e quindi nel testo sono frequenti frasi in arabo..
When asked by a co-worker what I was reading lately, I barely knew what to say - "Well, this book about a family, and their gross father, and there's a lot of incest..." But while there is definitely a very strong undercurrent of incesty feelings and behavior running through the entire novel, there is much more to it.It's hard to give a high level summary of the plot without diving into all of the intricacies.
Having had a very normal childhood with very normal parents and a sister, reading about a family like this was compelling and satisfyingly twisted.To me, this book was dark and sad, but there was a beautiful quality to it too.
1) The writing was so good and compelling and addicting it made it difficult for me to stop reading, despite my issues with it.
2) I didn't want anyone else to read it, so I didn't give it away or sell it.
It really bothered me.I don't like artsy descriptions of horrible perversion.
One part of this book that I LOVED was in a marital-infidelity situation.
What he did was horrible.
I enjoyed her writing style, obviously I was sucked in enough to read through it, but my heart was really dark and cloudy for a few days after reading it.
This five-star rating is the one I gave Ann-Marie MacDonald's powerhouse first novel the first time around, but I confess I was remembering and rating it at a great distance.
I'm going to think on my second rating a bit more, but I can tell you that this was a very different read this time.
I don't know that I liked it as much - although I recognize the mastery of its writing and characterization, and the amazing imagination behind the story.
And I love how Cape Breton it was.
I think I'll land on a high 3, so let's say 4.
You know it's going to be disturbing and hard to watch but you can't look away.Fall On Your Knees (Oprah #45)The book follows the Piper family from the late 1890's through several generations of increasingly disturbed individuals.
In the beginning of the book James Piper is a piano tuner who ends up running away with Materia Mahmoud, the daughter of one of his clients.
These are deeply flawed individuals, making horrible choice after horrible choice and yet I became invested in their story.Like a bad talk show, the book is filled with many OMG and WTF moments and even a few that left me asking "Wait....WHAT?" as I frantically read on to see what was going to happen next.Of course I don't get my answers till much later in the book.
What to say about this devastating masterpiece? It's the 2nd time I've read it, and while it was hard to read the 1st time, I think re-reading is perhaps worse, because I knew the horrible thing that was coming (incest/rape). I don't really know how Ann-Marie MacDonald writes beautifully about such dark things, telling the intergenerational story of this fucked up family. The voice actor does an incredible job with the audiobook. If you can stomach it, this is a masterpiece, as I said. But fuck is it ever dark.Full review / personal essay on my blog!
