https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1490691.The_Heart_of_the_Family
I love Elizabeth Goudge.
Whenever I pick up one of her novels my heart rate slows and peace enters my world.
She asks some of the deep questions; Is love stronger than hatred?
How does the love between family members strengthen or smother?
How do we help one another in the deepest, most eternal way?This is the third book of the Eliot Family Trilogy.
We meet again the irrepressible Lucilla, matriarch of the family, and her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren.
There is not one character who is not flawed, but there is also not one character that I have not come to love, admire and learn from.
This book continues the story of Lucilla Eliot and her family and focuses mainly on David, Lucilla's grandson, his wife Sally and their two children.Sebastian Weber has a lot to recover from.
David is handsome, successful, with a lovely wife and children, and Sebastian in his emotional upheaval finds that unlike most of the world, he simply does not like, or even admire, David Eliot.How the author weaves together these lives in the aftermath of World War 2 makes for a pleasant story.
For Sebastian personally, it is the story of his journey from death to life.I read slowly and am still thinking about the characters and their struggles!
I started this and had a hard time getting into it...the main character is VERY introspective and working through bitterness/depression and it was hard for me to read.
Really like her writing style and descriptions. Great insight into the way people think, but she gives her characters too much wisdom and insight, almost a clairvoyance that's not believable. Not a fast-moving plot, but a book to be savored in quiet times.

Heart of the Family is the last in the series of books featuring the Eliot family.
The reader finds David returning after a tour in America with Sebastian in tow and morning a forbidden love affair.
Goudge introduces us to Sebastian who has lost his family in the war and who has developed an uncomfortably mysterious bond with David.
This book though well written was my least favorite.
Goudge understands that even in literature all characters can't have happy endings but as a romantic that is what I wish for.Thanks to Ria who introduced me to this wonderful writer.
Years after first reading and loving Pilgrim's Inn, I was delighted to find out that there was a sequel: The Heart of the Family. Unfortunately, The Heart of the Family lacks the magic and coziness of the previous book. Its message seems to be that if you're not suffering enough, you need to try harder. This is mid-20th-century literary Christianity at its most twisted. One character, Sally Eliot actually believes that her (justified!) terror of childbirth is a gift from God, allowing her to feel less ashamed of her comfortable life. Yuck.
I had not realized this book would be more about internal character changes than actual plot. It begins slowly, and moves its focus from person to person enough to intrigue you, but not to slow you down.I think I surprised myself by liking this.
Nice closure on the life of Lucilla - lovely, real, and sympathetic figure, now that I am a bit closer to her age than the first time I read this book.
One compelled feeling by action, slowly and laboriously by one act of self-denial after another, instead of allowing feeling to control action.""At one time I traveled a great deal, and I tried to read all the best-loved children's classics in all the countries I visited .
Sadly a let down after the first two books in this trilogy. I was thoroughly enjoying the first 75% of this book and two characters in particular fell flat. We were presented with two trials they were going through at the beginning and I felt their problems weren't explained enough nor were they truly resolved. I really hated being disappointed at the end of this trilogy and were it not for the beautiful writing I would have given this two stars.
The third Eliot book several years after Pilgrim's Inn. David and Sally are expecting their third child, David returns from a tour in America bringing a broken-down survivor of the concentration camps home as his secretary. Sebastian finds peace from the horrors of his past years during his days with the Eliot family after a surprising revelation from David.
Dreamy writing. Deep insights. Damerosehay must be beckoning. I have only recently discovered Elizabeth Goudge writing and have been savouring the Elliot trilogy. Worth reading but take your time so that you don't miss the gems of wisdom.
Final book in the 'Eliots of Damerosehay' trilogy.More philosophical and mystical than the previous two books in the series. Sebastian, deeply traumatized by war, comes to work in the family home. Moving in places and encouraging about the future. Long-winded but worth persevering.
A very nice book. I think it is definitely one for the those who enjoy intelligent reading. A lot of musings in this book.
I love the grace and depth of Elizabeth Goudge's writing, and this series most of all. Multiple rereads only increase the enjoyment...
I enjoyed it, though I felt it didn't really have a strong plot. More of a get to know each character more in depth and farther down the road of time. Pretty philosophical too.
[This is Book #3.] The Eliots of Damerosehay series was my very first experience with E. Goudge novels. What a delightful series full of real people and grand vocabulary.
I did not enjoy this last book of the trilogy quite as much as the first two.
I though this would be my least favorite of all the books, because so many people didn't like it compared to the first two.
However, this one actually ended up being my personal favorite of the series because it contained so much deep introspection and thought inspiring ideas.
I liked the addition of Sebastion, the Jewish concentration camp survivor, in this story and how he provided a context to the family as a stranger looking in and forming deep attachments to all of the people, including Meg, Lucilla and David.
This is my second-favorite of the trilogy. There’s still a bit too much of Lucilla Elliott for my taste here. Goudge obviously adored her as a character, but she leaves me cold. It’s wonderful to see the Elliott children again, as well as the additions to their number. Sally Elliott and her daughter Meg are beautifully drawn and make the novel worth reading all on their own. Sebastian Weber’s tormented presence gives a great deal of depth to the book. Goudge’s botanical mistake, the mysterious “wild rue with blue flowers”, puts in another annoying appearance.
Well as much as I live Elizabeth Goudge, I did not care for this book. I would have been content with the last book being Pilgrim's Inn. I would have been more interested in finding out more about Ben and Carolyn and the Twins than reading about Sebastian. This book also made me not like David, since he was having an affair and made Sally unhappy (again). Pilgrim's Inn ended well and I almost wish I wouldn't have read the 3rd novel in the series.
This book is a lot more introspective than the other books in this series. It deals gently with the darker side of personality and experience. Because of this, it isn't an easy read. You have to really concentrate to follow the philosophical wonderings of each character, and so it isn't a book to read when you are tired. I kept having to re-read sections to grasp what was being said. Therefore, it isn't as 'enjoyable' but certainly worth it.
This third book in the series lacks some of the plot momentum of the first two books. Grandson, David, meets a man while touring in the USA and brings him back to England to his grandmother's home to re-adjust to losses incurred during the war. The characters are all wrapped up in various forms of love, respect and caring.
I loved this last book in the trilogy, all of which I have enjoyed immensely. The characters by now have an excellent day that and variety, and reading about the post-war struggles of the main character and Goudge's insights were very healing to some old wounds of mine. E. Goudge has been a favorite author for years now, and little by little I am collecting all her books.
Too much religion and not enough action
This hasn't been my favorite EG series, and this third one was the most difficult for me to enjoy. There were some beautiful moments, but overall the angst and introspection just weren't my thing.
Not much plot. Good thoughts but I had trouble following this one sometimes.
I found this tedious in the extreme; was the Author in her dotage when she wrote it?
Third in the Elliot Family Trilogy, and though a little slow and not my favorite of the three, a satisfying ending to the saga. Elizabeth Goudge is one of my favorite writers of adult fiction.
Once again, Elizabeth Goudge tells a story that leaves me pondering how to better love God and my neighbor.
