https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136088.SAS_Survival_Handbook
If Oprah was really interested in helping people, she'd add this book to her book club. "Read it TODAY. Steadman!!! We need a survival kit and a survival pouch. And one for the cocker spaniels. And Gayle. Get off the Xbox."Zombies: come at me bros.
THE BEST SURVIVAL GUIDE EVER PUBLISHED...I am a outdoor kind of guy..
It is a one-stop deal for survival situation..If you got lost in a wild place like (any )forest and if you have find this book in your backpack, man, you are most luckiest person on this earth..The feature of the book which really fascinated is the GLOBAL EDIBLE PLANTS list..
There is a big list of edible, medicinal and extremely poisonous plants in the book..
I never saw this feature in any other survival guide ever..It has got the procedures of gutting the animals and all, clothing for a particular kind of region..

This book is actually one of the few that I always take me whenever I travel or go on a trip.
This could potentially save your life and it is really so detailed it is crazy.
Having the pages able to survive water is also so useful.
Going from every environment, to what plants you can eat, to setting up traps and shelters this has EVERYTHING.
I never travel without it beside me, it could save your life one day, so I think its better to be safe than sorry.
Even if you aren't that adventurous its cool to read just as info.
Obviously, you don't read a book like this expecting great literature.
The sheer amount of useful information in this book makes it worth owning and worth actually reading.
Besides the obvious worst-case-scenario imagination-stimulation, you might actually learn something that could someday save a life or two.
Two caveats though: 1) The quality of the writing and (I think) the information itself trailed off a little by the last few chapters; and 2) there were three or four places where the writer was either "stretching" beyond his actual knowledge or had someone else slap together that section for him.
I had read about this some time ago as being the "definitive guide" to wilderness survival, a topic of great interest to me.
This book is fantastic - based on a lifetime serving in the Special Air Service (SAS), an elite British army unit, Wiseman packs this invaluable book full of comprehensive, clear, practical information about building shelter, finding food and water, and staying safe and healthy in all emergency scenarios and situations.
The diagrams are very clear, and his writing style is quaint.
Very enjoyable to read, and who knows, one day it could save your life!!On a related note, check out the CDC's fun and educational illustrated narrative on emergency preparedness, zombie style: http://www.cdc.gov/phpr/zombies_novel...
What a bizarre, interesting book! I now feel prepared should my car drive off of a cliff onto a frozen tundra. Seriously, I was fascinated by this book, and I have the strangest urge to buy a good knife and always keep in on my person now...
Probably the best, most realistic, compact and complete survival guide out there. It has everything you 'll ever need in a survival situation, but don't get too excited. Reading about it and implementing it in a real survival situation are two different things.Worth reading, better yet studying.
After the fires in N. California where I live, it has changed my perspective. I feel that I need to be more prepared. This book really helped although practical application is really what is needed. This would also be good to learn about camping too.
When disaster strikes, it is always good to be prepared for any type of emergency. Even if houses have an “Emergency Kit”, the question is whether the family knows how to use the materials properly. The SAS Survival Handbook is great for learning how to learn with equipment, or nothing but hands. SAS Survival Handbook, written by an ex-SAS, John ‘Lofty’ Wiseman, was written so that anyone can learn how to survive with nothing in any situation or climate.  Survival dates back to when the first ma
With the author’s chapter-by-chapter topics, learning new material is easy.
Wiseman focuses on topics such as setting up essentials, being mentally prepared, finding food, navigation, staying healthy, natural disasters, climates, and survival at sea.
With these techniques, anyone can learn how to survive the worst situations.If the reader does not believe that they would not benefit from this book because they would not read it, having a copy around cannot hurt since it covers topics varying widely.
If I were in a survival situation, I would just need Wiseman’s SAS Survival Handbook to live a long and healthy life.
The SAS survival guide provides a wealth of information on how to survive in different situations ranging from a volcano eruption to being lost at sea and tells you how to perform useful tasks like building an igloo and amputating an arm.
While I am undoubtedly better prepared to fend for myself if I get lost in the woods the lack of detail on certain topics and the focus on long term (1 month +) survival prevented me from rating it higher.I didn’t find the organization as bad as some other reviewers the book is broken into 11 categories (essentials, strategy, climate and terrain, food, camp craft, reading the signs, on the move, health, survival at sea, rescue and disasters).
The SAS SURVIVAL MANUAL won acclaim upon its publication in 1986, both because of its clear organization and the illustrious career of the soldier behind it, John "Lofty" Wiseman who served for 26 years and participated in operations all over the world.
There are clear, often colour illustrations for edible and poisonous plants and for tying knots, while the instruction on how to properly butcher a deer or sheep are easier to grasp than in some other manuals.
But learning proper survival would require more than just reading this book, so perhaps those inaccuracies would be corrected in further research.
This is a good toilet read and something valuable to consult before heading out on any outdoor trip.
For a city-mouse like myself, I may 'read' the book, but I'm not likely to remember more than 1/4 of the info contained inside.There was a particularly interesting chapter on snares and traps that look like they only require a survival knife and possibly some shoelaces.
That chapter was particularly fascinating to read because our not-too-distant ancestors probably knew those tricks _very_ well, where I have to learn about them from drawings in a book.
This book covers every survival question you can think of and loads that you can't.
It covers every major climatic region and survival at sea and how to get through various man-made and natural disasters.
It also covers:- what you can and can't eat- identification of edible and medicinal plants- animal tracks and signs- trapping, killing and preparation of animals- where to locate and how to build a camp- first aid from minor to major injury and illness- signalling using yourself, morse code and stuff your find nearbyWritten by a professional SAS soldier, Lofty really knows his stuff and conveys it clearly, in such a way that anyone will be able to understand and follow his advice and methods.

This is probably one of the most comprehensive book about wilderness survival ever written. Right from the top of my head I can't think of a single situation that it does not cover, or in which the knowledge find within the pages of this legendary field manual can not aid you in some way.Absolutely 100% recommended.
I have the newer (2006) edition of this book; it is an excellent and very compact.Here;s a link to it:http://www.amazon.com/SAS-Survival-Gu...This book is a must-have resource for survivalists, backpackers, hunters, trappers, preppers of all sorts, and even bushcrafters.Highly recommended.PMZ
This book is awesome and informative. There is also a smartphone companion app which is kind of cool thing as well. Goes over many situations and climates and the survival issues regarding each of these. Great book.
fits in my pocket, literally, and has great pictures and information for survival stuff, which interests me alot.
Everyone should have one.
If it weren't for this book, I wouldn't know the first thing about rabbit starvation, emergency childbirth, or the deadly candiru.
Now I know how to field dress a hare.
Because you just never know!!! Highly useful information and could potentially be life saving!
Only problem with this book is I know I won't have it when I'm lost in the wilds being chased by a pack of rabid mountain goats.
good book
This is the best survival book I found so far. It seems like it could be useful outside of an emergency just for the first aid and plant identification sections. He really goes into great detail maintaining a level of detail not seen in other books. For example, he shows how to skin/prepare animals and how to collect dew off of plants.
Chock full of information, diagrams, pictures and great advice.....must have for anyone interested in nature and survival. It took awhile to read due to the immense amount of information packed into this one book.
ok...
"Survivalism is a movement of individuals or groups (called survivalists or preppers) who are actively preparing for emergencies, including possible disruptions in social or political order, on scales from local to international.
Survivalists often acquire emergency medical and self-defense training, stockpile food and water, prepare to become self-sufficient, and build structures (e.g., a survival retreat or an underground shelter) that may help them survive a catastrophe."If you consider yourself one, then this is what will be known as the Holy Book for Preppers.
Yes you do have to jump from one section to another from time to time for more details on certain things, but this is more of a reference book anyway.I would have liked to see more detail on certain areas.
People give this book shit for covering things like that but the point of the book is to cover as many scenarios as possible.
As the book states you need to practice your skills and can't rely on this book alone but hey, it's a great starting point.
A good place to start for any prepper, outdoorsmen or traveller and a great place to go back to for reference.
