https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10956.The_Virgin_Suicides
what eugenides does so well is capture the mystery of secluded sisters, as seen through the eyes of neighborhood boys.
it's not necessarily the lisbon sisters' story, but rather the boys' story, and how the suicides affected them all the way into adulthood (the boys are now men and they retell their story).
euginedes' use of a vague narrator allows the reader to actively participate in the mystery and confusion as the boys try to come to terms with the deaths.
it's a thought-provoking novel and one that stays with the reader well after closing its pages, just as the lisbon sisters still haunt the memory of the neighborhood boys.
A group of oppressed sisters kill themselves after flirting with the neighborhood boys.
How horrible that it happened in the middle of suburban America, where white picket fences are supposed to render such neighborhoods impermeable to tragic teenage death.
In the end, all I got from this book was the fact that the girls were peculiar (and hello!
at least one was not a virgin when she committed suicide), the boys were immature, the girls' parents were psychotic.
Okay, sure, I get that there may have been metaphors and themes about the hypocrisy of middle America, oppressive religion, etc.
This book proved he is only an occasional genius.
It is hard to say I enjoyed a story like this - that would be like saying I enjoyed a car wreck; intriguing, but lots of people and property were damaged in the process.One main thing I can say is I don't think I have seen the main story take as much of a back seat to the setting, the symbolism, and the side characters.
And, I think it is important that the "coating" is never pretty.
It is always foul, stinking, decaying, etc.Symbolism - As the story deteriorates, so do the structures and the people.
Looking into other people's lives.
This book is like a preface, where the real book never feels like it begins. Endless foreshadowing mixed in with various teenage boy obsessions about what a home with five daughters must entail...boxes and boxes of tampons, etc. I couldn't wait for these girls to kill themselves just so the book would be over.
I can only imagine it was a very different experience for him.He was born 20 years before the author of this book, Jeffrey Eugenides, but they both grew up in the U.S., in the Midwest, and both of them experienced childhoods that were heavily influenced by the auto industry.They also both watched a lot of changes occur in the U.S., not the least of these being the confusing shifts in the lives of American adolescents.And I wish, wish, WISH that my father had discovered Mr. Eugenides and this UNBELIEVABLE, FANTASTIC, INCREDIBLY ORIGINAL debut novel before he passed, because he'd have been shaking his head in a stunned disbelief.Dad never knew Mr. Eugenides, but I do, and his Pulitzer-Prize winning Middlesex just about knocked me out.
So disappointed with this book.Couldnt get my head round the characters
5/5Tenía ganas de dejar un poco de lado la literatura juvenil, así que decidí coger esta novela que llevaba un tiempo llamándome desde mis estanterías.
Qué sorpresa que se haya convertido en uno de los mejores libros que he leído, pero pocos tienen la magia de la que bien puede alardear esta novela.
Se consigue una transición desde esa confusión inicial, hasta una novela compleja y con un entramado mágico, que me atrapó por completo y me dejó sin palabras.
Being a middle age man myself and having a teenager daughter, the last page upped the story’s impact on me.The collective voice of the narrators who are voyeurs of the Lisbon family oozes with innocence (of being young and sexually curious) and guilt (of being voyeurs who did not do anything to save the sisters).
The Lisbon sisters committed suicide with the blood left on the hands of the boys and the whole town.And the creepiest thing there is that since Eugenides used "we" and "us" and realizing in the end that those narrators were not teenage kids but were middle-age men, gave me the feeling that I, now a middle-age man myself, was with them watching Lux making out with faceless boys and men on the rooftop making me equally guilty.
The writing is luminous and reads more like poetry than a novel.
Eugenides uses metaphor to describe the deaths of the sisters as the disintegration of a suburban neighborhood--the trees are being cut down because of the threat of Dutch Elm disease; there are dying flies everywhere that are described by the first sister to commit suicide as not even having time to eat before their lives are over.
Eugenides did not throw this book together; in my mind's eye I see him sitting at his desk turning each phrase over and over in his hands until he gets it exactly right.
To this list I add myself, since I would give anything to be able to write half as well as Eugenides.
Wow, you knew that this guy was the real deal after all.I see this as a perfect segue to his masterpiece "Middlesex".
It's simple, it's sad, it is capital I Intriguing.
The first novel always announces the author's intentions for those that come next, and Eugenides loves the themes of adolescence in all its tragic shortcomings.
The Lisbon girls are monoliths to the nameless suitors who do nothing else but speculate about them and become passionate voyeurs.
I guess while girls become emblematic of sexual repression, the foolish boys become symbols of generic apathy and cowardice.
It's a symbol of the times; a portrait of suburban un-happiness.
I know you're not supposed to understand why the Lisbons killed themselves, but as someone who was severely depressed and at times suicidal at that age myself, it all rang so hollow to me and I couldn't shake the feeling that the book itself (as opposed to just the narrators) was romanticising suicide.
It's not very long, and I'd been meaning to read it for years after hearing some great things about it.
It's utterly captivating; Eugenides's use of the choral narrative voice was unlike anything I've read before and the descriptions and dreamy and compelling.
It has its moments of melodrama but those are balanced by the utterly mundane aspects of these characters' lives too.
I feel like I need to read it again to pick up on so many elements I may have overlooked or not fully appreciated the first time around.
I can definitely see myself reading this one again and am glad to have finally gotten around to it.
I think maybe a few people are going to be disappointed that I didn't give this five stars, and I mean, I'm upset that it wasn't five stars either, but hear me out.The thing I liked the most about this book is the perspective.
Honestly, every couple of pages I would think to myself "When Jeffrey Eugenides thought to himself that he should write this from the outside view he had one of the best epiphanies ever.
This book is just so true, so pure.
When I'm true to myself, I could act like this was the best book, I could write and essay about how life altering this book is, but it's a lie.
So much better the second time around (and I loved it the first, so...)Gorgeous, creepy.
GUSHHHH.Something that I very much loved about the book (and that lacks from the film), are the moments when the boys realize not only that the Lisbon girls are unique entities, but that they're not perfect.
I love that.
People with crowded smiles.I love the narrator.
Worringly obsessed (especially considering the time that's passed) though he may be, it really feels like someone is telling you something true.
In a fictional world where anything can happen, nothing there makes any real difference, making it difficult for me to care about the book even while it was often thrilling me.Set in the 1970s in a suburb of Detroit, the novel is the first person account of an unnamed narrator who seems to have been a teenage boy once, and who like many of his friends, is obsessed with the secrets of the enigmatic Lisbon girls, five aloof sisters who we're told very early on, in case the title didn't spoil it, take their own lives.
En lo que llevo de año las novelas que han tenido la puntuación máxima han sido más bien pocas, y es en parte porque me quise exigir un poco más y ser más duro con mis reseñas.
Podría decir que me la he leído en un día, pues desde la página 41 a la 230 han sido apenas unas pocas horas de viaje.
Es más que curioso darte cuenta de cómo realmente no llegas a conocer a las hermanas Lisbon pero crees conocerlas, algo con lo que Eugenides juega muy bien.
Me gusta que un autor tenga esa magia.
It begins with the suicide of the youngest girl; the precursor to the preoccupation the boys have with the Lisbon sisters.
And it's basically neighbourhood story; Michigan in the 1970's, one street, one year, five girls and the neighbouring boys.
The sisters are a mystery to the boys then and still some twenty years later where the memory still haunts them.
The boys have almost a reverent need to know; it seems driven by a pure want to be close to the girls.
Insights other than the boys' own are recounted as the narrators later seek out various neighbours, other pupils, parents and teachers.

Con una primera persona plural, no-omnisciente, digamos mejor, “testigo tímido”, Eugenides te hace un narrador más de la historia, y eso, déjenme decirles, está cool.
Es interesante, porque el grupo de narradores son unos hombres que están recordando su adolescencia en donde conocieron (muy de cerca) a las hermanas Lisbon.Sin embargo, sentí que la novela del autor estadounidense tuvo un problema de conexión y de desarrollo de trama (que la trama general está buena, pero la mal desarrolló).
Pero el final de la historia, además de brusco y sin sentido, no siguió la línea que Eugenides había trazado desde el principio y a lo largo de toda la novela.
Jeffrey Eugenides has the unique ability to transform a very simple story into one of complete beauty.
Almost every page of this book had a meaningful quote on it.I think this is mentioned in almost every review, but the first-person plural narration is done expertly.
By using "us" and "we," Eugenides drew me into the story and made me feel as if I was one of those neighborhood boys obsessing over the Lisbon girls.I don't really know what else to say about this since the real beauty of this story comes through when you're reading it.
I really loved the way this story was delivered, told from the point of view of the neighbourhood boys who have an obsessive fascination for the five Lisbon sisters who all succumb to suicide.
It sounds utterly depressing and it is, but the way it's told it really captures the essence of adolescence yearnings, of unattainable fascinations of the elusive repressed sheltered Lisbon girls.
The writing is as beautiful as the sisters, the story travels quickly almost without pause and you get really caught in this captivating story told in this most compelling way.
I was completely swept away with this stunning story with it's beautiful sense of melancholia and despair.
Theresa, Mary, Bonnie, Lux, and Cecilia Lisbon are five Catholic sisters growing up in an upper-middle-class neighborhood in Michigan during the 1970s.
Inexplicable tragedy strikes as the youngest Lisbon girl, Cecilia, commits suicide at the age of thirteen.
This tragic event is the downward spiral that eventually destroys Cecilia's four sisters within two years of her death.
Narrated in a group voice of fascinated neighborhood boys, the girls last year and a half of life are obsessively observed.
Every glimpse of a Lisbon girl through a window and every piece of trash from their house is examined minutely as the boys try to unravel the shocking mystery of the Lisbon girls life and ultimately their deaths.
Que decir..Fue una lectura relativamente rápida, sin embargo, tiene un trasfondo emocional bastante 
Se me hizo eterna, tantas descripciones, tantos detalles sin sentido, personajes que aparecían en una escena y nunca más eran nombrados, una cantidad de nombres innecesaria, datos que no aportaban nada a la historia (como por ejemplo la forma que tenía cada vecino de barrer las hojas en otoño).
😐La historia no era tan mala, pero el autor me hizo odiarla con su forma de escribir.
Tanto me costó que estuve a punto de abandonar el libro, pero vi la película y me gustó un poco más, y me dio la fuerza para terminar el libro.
The Virgin Suicides made me think about what exactly the word 'classic' means when it comes to books (spoiler: I still don't know).
The boys knew the girls better than anyone, but also did not know them at all.I usually see storytelling as being more important than the writing, but in this case I couldn't separate the two – the writing is beautiful and the style feels essential to the story.
I felt that The Virgin Suicides depicted heightened (and exaggerated) realism and it forces you to truly think about the Lisbon girls, not just as characters, but as real people with intentions.
DecostruzioneIl sogno americano crolla dietro ai giardini e ai vialetti in serie, dentro alle case c
"With most people," he said, "suicide is like Russian roulette.
Only one chamber has a bullet.
The other two bullets are impossible to name, but that doesn't mean the chambers were empty."This was a strange read for me, yet still managed to be… I wouldn’t say enjoyable.
On top of that, it’s actually told as almost a recollection of people who were affected by these girls and their actions.
Even know, writing this review several weeks after finishing the book, I’m not sure how to describe how I felt about it.
Writing about specific details is very important to any work of fiction but it can be taken to an extreme.
Especially in some sections where he will just list off thousands of details about the houses or the Lisbon girls with long strings of adjectives.
This all makes me think it could have a satirical slant, but I'm not quite sure.This all functions with a touch of Faulknerian-style writing and brilliant usage of first person plural.
I think everyone should read this book and I should read Middlesex before The Marriage Plot comes out!
You're either gonna think this is really boring, or really solid.
I let out an audible sigh of relief when I finished this last night. Finally, it's over. It just wasn't my book. The writing was good, that's what the two stars are for, but the story just BORED me. It would NOT end. Ugh.
