https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6216854-op-oloop
I have to give this five stars for the outrageously elegant language and fantastically insightful writing.
Just wow.
Wow with bells on.
Wow to the translator.Juan Filloy lived to 106 (died in 2000), and apart from writing refereed boxing matches and wrote 6000 palindromes.
This would be an impressive enough feat in itself, but he also wrote this book about a Finnish statistician on the day of his 1000th sexual conquest.
This book burrows so deep inside the psyche, it's no surprise to learn Filloy was pals with Freud.Just wow.
The writing, too, is bad beyond the meandering pointless structural problems, careening wildly from overblown pompous prose description to self-consciously vulgar dialog in which all characters speak in the same way (except Op Oloop, but then he's a crazy philosopher, a philosophical crazy, and also he's in love, except for that he's also visiting his 1000th whore tonight, except for that his love is pure, as we know because he tiptoed through the phalluses with his beloved that time while they were both in an astral projection that came from the inside of their collective heads, and NO I AM NOT MAKING THIS UP, it really is that bad.)To spare you reading it yourself, I will tell you what happens: he discovers that his 1000th whore is secretly the daughter of the woman he abandoned years ago in Finland and who went mad without him, she is also, then, the child of his mind and soul, and he thinks she should move in with his fiancée and be their charge.
A playful and unpredictable masterpiece of Argentinean literature, raising comparisons to Ulysses and serving as a primary inspiration to authors such as Julio Cortázar and Alfonso Reyes -From Dalkey Archive Press  Op Oloop was the first novel of Argentine author Juan Filloy. Originally privately published in 1934, it was first translated and made available in English in 2009 through the fine efforts of Dalkey Archive Press. Through the course of his 106 year life, Juan Filloy wrote 55 novels,
Also, unlike Ulysses, much of this book shows its age (the opening hundred pages or so being, again, the exception), and while it starts out feeling fairly timeless (it wasn’t until the middle section that I even looked up who Juan Filloy was and recognized when the book was originally written) it ends up feeling very much of a time and place.
Here's just a samply that was my favorite:One day, while eating steak Provençal, I considered the question of the existence of God. I said to myself, ‘The world exists: we have it here before us.
So I gave up on my steak, gristly and absolute as the notion of God, and I plunged into the appetizing reality of the pommes frittes that served as garnish.
And since appearance is what it is not, but only simulates –like a conman—I came to the conclusion that the idea of God and rubbery steaks are both things that people willingly swallow, but which are toxic and, finally, stomach churning.

Maybe this book was simply beyond me, but whether or not it was, I didn't really like it at all.
Long, elaborate words have their place, but reading shouldn't be a chore.
I had to look up a word on almost every page and each time I learned the meaning, I just questioned how necessary it was to use it.
There were a few parts which were quite good, but all in all it lacked any justification for its superfluous writing.
Regardless of the writing, the novel's plot was quite good and it did get quite interesting, raising a lot of questions in my mind.
From my review at Popmatters: Juan Filloy was an Argentine writer with a dramatic bio that includes boxing referee and palindromist. His writing exhibits the love of words and philosophy of the latter; the no-nonsense, unflinching eye of the former. He lived to be 106, having died in 2000, and in some circles is placed alongside some of Latin America's best writers of the 20th century, such as his friends Julio Cortazar and Jorge Luis Borges. As if all that weren't enough, he's also funny. Entire review is at Popmatters: http://www.popmatters.com/pm/review/1...
When life is as ordered as a mathematical equation, you can't just skip a digit whenever you feel like it.No one is more a slave than he who worships freedom.Take as many precautions against happiness as against the plague.My head is a pocket-sized edition of hell."All the errors and inconsistencies of the Creator reach their climax in man."The word is man's eviternal anomaly."I have lived and loved, and closed the door."
Op Oloop oldukça farklı , okuyucuyu zorlayan , bittikten sonra düşünmeye sebep olan tabiri caiz ise beyin yakan bir kitap. Okurken bazı cümleleri daha iyi anlayabilmek için iki bazen de üç kez okuduğum oldu. Cümleleri daha iyi algılayabilmek için tekrar tekrar okudum bazı cümleleri . Freud da kitabı okuduktan sonra el yazısı ile bir mektup yazarak kitabı çok beğendiğini söylemiştir yazara.Kitapta farklı bir güne tanıklık ederken aynı zamanda matematiksel bir zekaya sahip Op Oloop'un duygusal ve psikolojik durumuna da tanıklık ediyoruz.https://kozmokitap.blogspot.com.tr/20...
Un style inédit et des pensées explicitées très intéressantes avec cependant quelques décrochages au début pour ma part. Un maniement de la langue incroyable, aux prémices de l'Oulipo entre illusions et mathématiques. Encore une très belle publication des éditions Monsieur Toussaint Louverture.
Después de mil años me lo he terminado pero huelga decir que no es mi estilo de libro. El autor será un genio pero yo no he entendido casi nada por su vocabulario complejo y también por su retorcida trama filosófica, en mi opinión claro está.
Llegué a él por recomendación y me decidí por Op Oloop porque es una de sus obras más conocidas.
He de admitir que no me resultó un autor fácil, tiene una prosa particular, usa muchas palabras que no son habituales, construye frases de una manera que a veces me pareció insólita o rebuscada.
Su prosa y su sintaxis no son para cualquiera, es un escritor que desafía al lector.
No estoy seguro si recomendaría Op Oloop o no, pero eso depende ya de cada uno y sus gustos.
El único libro que leí de Filloy y me costaría reunir la fuerza para leer otro (aunque Caterva me llama la atención).
Empecé completamente predispuesto a que me gustara ya que reúne todos los elementos que me gustan de los libros - pero quedé desilusionado por la obsesión con las palabras ultra-complicadas y oscuras.
Como decía Borges, no porque existan muchas palabras en el diccionario significa que hay que usarlas todas.
Filloy parecería que busca las más complicadas artificialmente.
Por otro lado, el libro funcionaría mejor como obra de teatro - teatro del absurdo.
Una lástima porque quería que me gustara.
Interessante Prämisse um das aus den Fugen geratende Leben des zwanghaften Statistikers Op Oloop, dazu ist auch der Anfang gelungen und das Ende stimmig. Dazwischen verzettelt sich der Autor aber viel zu oft in (pseudo)intellektuellen Monologen mit einem Hang zur Arroganz, die den Lesefluss stören und der Hauptfigur gewissermaßen auch ihre Glaubwürdigkeit und auf jeden Fall ihre Sympathie rauben. Im Ansatz eine gute Charakterstudie, in der Umsetzung ausbaufähig.(gelesen wurde die deutsche Übersetzung von Silke Kleemann)
Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar, and sometimes a book is just a book. Not OP OLOOP. This is a novelistic journey! Freud was a Juan Filloy fan. I can see why. The acute insights into people, the human mind; but Filloy’s fun and funny! I don't know if I fully embrace Optimus' unraveling from his rational reality, but this could be a result of Filloy's prose being so precise it almost contradicts his anti-rational raison d'etre.
Sorta read--started--thought I got the idea (hints of Ulysses; N Baker?; that one book about the character who collects books in his basement, burns them maybe?, by an Eastern European author, sorry I can't remember any specifics...)--and just wasn't in the mood. But I'm counting it as read, because I FEEL like I read it, and I'm not sure when/if I'll return to it.
Fun use of language, but I grew sort of tired after the first..100 pages or so, emphasis on psychoanalysis (the author was friends with Freud) dates the novel a bit, and brought me out of it. Compared (by the back of my copy of the book) as similar to Ulysses, got me pumped until I remembered that I didn't have that much fun reading Ulysses either.
I picked this book for a book club based on reviews. Its an odd duck of a book. I am glad I read it, but certainly would not suggest it for most readers. One month later I can barely remember the plot but I did love the section where two people had a conversation while not in the same space.
statistician falls in love. and well goes crazy. v. fun.
?!?
stream of consciousness makes me lose consciousness.
Amusing, and essential reading for logophiles!
I should like to give it 3.5 stars.
uno de los libros con mayor libertad creativa para hacer sus personajes interactúen con filosofías sobre el amor, la economía y la vida.
This might be a case of the author being more interesting than his book, although to be fair, I didn't actually finish the novel.
