https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/897825.Wanderer_kommst_du_nach_Spa_
The sentence, a sadly accurate symbol for the cut off, broken culture, the "Trümmerliteratur", is an unfinished line from a Schiller poem, telling the story of ancient Spartan youths willing to sacrifice themselves for the greater good of their nation - a worthy equivalent to the German men signing up for the war directly from school, believing in the old lie "Dulce Et Decorum Est Pro Patria Mori" long after Wilfred Owen and his fellow poets denounced it in World War I.
The education implied in the decoration of the school (pictures of colonial Togo, the Old Fritz and the Great Elector) and the quotation, cut short, from "Wanderer, kommst du nach Sparta, verkündige dorten, du habest uns hier liegen gesehn, wie das Gesetz es befahl" - of Schiller citing the Simonides epigram on the Spartan dead at Thermopylae - manages in a few words and images to describe a wealth of social and political values built in to the education of a society which over-valued martial virtues and a military death, which in themselves explain Germany's involvement in the First and Second World Wars in a convincing and moving way (view spoiler)[ I think Anselm Kiefer does something similar with his Varus painting  (hide spoiler)] as a complete culture, a set of values that ends in a schoolboy facing field surgery in his former classroom - who will learn the lesson?The post war stories are full of the shabby difficulties of the postwar years.
Böll, il Maestro delle short-stories.
O la rapida sequenza di immagini in Una bevuta a Potöcki renda perfettamente l'idea di una Ungheria intima, diffidente, baffuta, rintanata in un'osteria durante l'occupazione nazista.Un denso fluire di sogni, speranze ed amare disillusioni tra i feriti della guerra, uomini orribilmente mutilati, moribondi, ed il loro disperato bisogno di una compagna, una sigaretta, un dolcetto, la fioca luce di una candela nell'oscurità della trincea.Il ritorno, dolorosamente felice, degli anni della gioventù nel riconoscere la tua calligrafia tracciata col gesso su una lavagna che ormai funge da separé per i militari in attesa di amputazione, nello struggente racconto eponimo.La religiosità genuina, saldamente ancorata ai sentimenti umani, o anche il senso del tempo che passa, gli oggetti e gli affetti che ci sfuggono di mano; di tutto questo parla Heinrich Böll, raccogliendo i frammenti di umanità provate, sofferenti, con sussulti di straordinaria dignità.
Regalandoci il volto tenero e segreto di una Germania che abbiamo conosciuto forse solo come il Mostro abbaiante e crudele al guinzaglio di Hitler.
All 26 stories collected in this book* are worth reading.
Just don't pick up this book expecting a frivolous read.
Really, no joke, read this book.I liked all 26 stories, but these more than the rest (with my favourites in bold)Across The BridgeMy Pal With The Long HairThe Man With The Knives'Stranger, Bear Word To The Spartans We...'Dear Old RenéeWhat A RacketAt The BridgeBreaking The NewsReunion In The AvenueIn The DarknessMy Expensive LegBusiness Is BusinessMy Sad FaceBlack SheepI discovered Heinrich Böll only a few months ago when I read Billiards at Half-Past Nine and The Train Was On Time, and I must say, I'm just sorry I didn't get to read him sooner.*Note: This book is included in The Collected Stories of Heinrich Böll
https://nwhyte.livejournal.com/2875639.htmlI acquired this collection of short stories years ago and got around to reading it last month.I must say they blew me away.
They are mostly very short indeed - 26 stories in 185 pages, so roughly 7 pages each on average.
They were published between 1947 and 1951, mostly in 1950.
It's unflinching and unsentimental, and full of memorable images (not all of which seem to have got translated) - the shreds of wallpaper, for instance, in the paragraph above.
Most of the stories are vignettes, but some have a distinct twist in the tail.
Somewhere the war was going on, invisible, inaudible in these silent streetsSomething between obsess
Great book with lots of mystical stories about the II. World War. I was deeply moved by the feelings of the people, being in despair or hope. Highly recommendable!
Notable are "At the Bridge", a story which is Kafkaesque in its absurdism, & yet romantic at the same time.
If the chaos and despair of post-Nazi Germany have such anguish in them, here Böll makes it quite clear that chaos is nothing compared to the horrors of a society imposing a merciless thirst for order upon its citizens.
One can almost really not examine some of the things done by human beings, without recoiling in utter horror.
By using this distancing, this Verfremdungseffekt, one is more able to address sensibly these horrors.) I don't know if Böll really offers any solutions to societies.
A scary story of what war is, who needs it and who pays for it. Surprisingly, the answers to these questions the author can enter into the framework of a tiny five-page story.Exceptionally capacious.
A great piece of WWII literature, simple and without unnecessary pathos. A clear and powerful reminder, that war has a child's face.It was really, really good.
When the last one hits, nearby, an explosion.After recovering and having a short a smoke with the man next to him, he is told:“You’d better get going, and don’t forget to take him with you, he’s lying up there by the old Flak emplacement.” Then he added: “There’s only half of him, you know, in a groundsheet.”In “My Expensive Leg,” Böll whets his knife of irony.
The interviewer calculates how much that would cost over his likely 40 years of life and tries to get him to realize that is very expensive for merely a leg.
ich bin gleichzeitig erleichtert, dass ich das hinter mir habe, und will heinrich bölls komplette bibliographie lesen. die beste kriegsliteratur, die ich bis jetzt gelesen habe - richtig, richtig beeindruckend. die hoffnungslosigkeit und verzweiflung der soldaten und des alltags von nachkriegsdeutschland ist mir noch nie so klar gemacht worden wie hier. hat mir absolut den magen umgedreht, aber auf eine sehr wichtige art und weise. wäre echt dafür, wenn eine oder mehr der kurzgeschichten bölls in der schule lektüre wären, vorallem "wanderer, kommst du nach spa..." selbst oder "steh auf, steh doch auf...". 100% empfehlenswert.
"At first there were two of us, but they shot the other fellow, he's not costing you a cent now. It's true he was married, but his wife is in good health and able to work, you don't need to worry. He was a real bargain. He'd only been a soldier for a month, all he cost was a postcard and a few bread rations. There's a good soldier for you, at least he let himself be killed off."
Fantastic but OMG is it depressing! I loved it because of the insight it gave me into Germany in 1944/45. This was called, "Nullpunktliteratur" or Point Zero Literature, and it really does describe a society that is totally lost. I have no idea if this ever was translated, but if you can find it in English, read it!
Книга про медитації на тему війни смертельнопораненого солдата,юнака який пішов на війну зі школи і в школу повертається на ношах помирати. Глибокий відчуттєвий драматизм, хапання за деталі, щоб ідентифікувати місцезнаходження і сенс всього, що відбувається навколо.
An outstanding collection of short stories. Boll depicts everyday German life following WWII in the small villages and through ordinary people faced with the devastation of the war as well stories of ordinary soldiers during the war.
2.5/5 stars
неплохое описание последних часов жизни раненого
Düstere und sehr traurige Kurzgeschichten über den Krieg aus den verschiedensten Perspektiven. Böll zeigt dabei seine Schreibkunst!
Heinrich Böll'ü ilk defa birkaç hafta önce duydum. Kendisi 2. Dünya Savaş'ına katılmış ve esir düşmüş nobel edebiyat ödüllü bir yazar.Bundan olacak ki yazdığı kitaplar savaşın yarattığı yıkımlar üzerine olmuş. İlginç bir şekilde, bu kitabında tek tema-savaş ve kalıntıları- üzerinde kalarak 25 kısa öykü yazmış.Bana göre, II. Dünya Savaşı sırasında Almanların yaşadığı sıkıntılara odaklandığı için farklı bir bakış açısı sunuyor.Ama yine de savaşın tüm bu yazılanlardan çok daha yıkıcı etkileri olduğuna inanıyorum.
An interesting collection of Heinrich Böll’s early short stories. Written in the immediate aftermath of the Second World War, Böll’s remit is to capture the perspective of the peoples of a defeated country who have to reconcile that defeat, the misery of post-war deprivation with the notion of national culpability. Excellent writer that he is, Böll effectively manages it.As such, it is a very good read. As you would expect, it’s incredibly sombre in tone, and evokes a period that we don’t often hear about. Well worth a look.
This is an absolutely wonderful collection of short stories, most of which focus on the fallout after World War II from the perspective of the returning German soldiers. "Business Is Business" may be the most perfect short story of the Twentieth Century. It describes one returning soldier's difficulty in reintegrating himself back into "normal" society--not unlike more familiar stories (to Americans) of American soldiers returning after Viet Nam. An excellent read.
Eindelijk is hij uit. Hoe beter mijn Duits werd, hoe meer ik het boek begon te begrijpen en te appreciëren. Logisch. 6 jaar zelfstudie heeft toch iets opgeleverd. Böll, geweldige kortverhalenverteller...
It was very interesting, but also very sad. I suppose the ending is the way that it has to be, but some readers may want a little bit more resolution. Every time I read it through I feel like I notice something new.
Racconti molto belli. Da leggere. E' la Germania della Guerra con le macerie. Alcune immagini sono stupende. Leggerete di una donna vista attraverso i vetri di una casa vista tutti i giorni da un uomo su un treno...Viandante se giungi a Sparta e' una scritta su una lavagna
A very easily read series of short stories with a picture of the effects of war that is very difficult to face.
Ein Teil der Geschichten war phänomenal, andere konnten mich weniger überzeugen. Trotzdem ist dieser Kurzgeschichtenband absolut lesenswert!
Finito il 1988
Wow. Trocken, klar, präzise, aber voller Seele und Anteilnahme. Nees2Reread
