https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9999.The_Box_Man
A mystery-filled riff on the nature of identity, the significance of the gaze, the nature of looking and being looked upon and how this defines who we are.The story is told primarily in the first person but we never know exactly who is doing the telling.
The Box Man was cancelled by the Atikokan Public Library after men began disappearing and reappearing with boxes over their heads (probably in the young adult section).
(They must have been issued their own stamper that cancellation day.) How bad could the box man trend have been?
Look like you should be there and you'll be more ignored than anyone wearing a cardboard box.
Does it feel like freedom to be ignored?
Is anyone carried away inside?The Box Man reads like a how-to.
The Box Man is the voyeur feeling of knowing that there are guys who go to peep show booths in triple x shops.
The other man is explicitly a Doppelgaenger and projection of the narrator, so in terms of men's roles, the book is about the nakedness of walking around in public without a box, the temptations of the box's security, and the odd feeling of slipping out of society and living in, and as, a box.
At one point the narrator admits he has made up the other "box man" entirely; several pages are devoted to a fantasy of turning into a fish and drowning; the narrative is often interrupted by notes about the color of the writer's ink or the nature of the paper he is writing on.
Not necessarily best, as book:Secret Rendezvous|10004] is crazy AND highly coherent, but the ways in which this is flirts with incoherency are extremely interesting.
This isn't necessarily a book to be dissected for clues so much as traveled through, getting jerked back and forth by all the narrative switchbacks and rug-pulling maneuvers.Any, what's it actually about.
There's a lot going on, better to just soak it in, reflect, consider.)In retrospect, perhaps all Abe's books are actually about disappearances.
This seems to be Abe at a pivotal point, reflecting all that came before or after in a sanely insane box labyrinth.
This novel messes with your head.
Really.As far as Kobo goes, I prefered Woman in the Dunes for pure entertainment, but the Box Man goes into uncharted territory (whereas Woman in the Dunes grasps at fairly traditional existentialism, albeit from a unique perspective)Who is the Box Man?
You could read this book a thousand times and still not unravel the mystery.
I, of course, have my own opinion, but the beauty of this book is that you just can't stop trying to figure things out.
I definitely recommend a read.
I can't guarantee you'll enjoy it, but I can guarantee that you'll be either completely befuddled or completely obsessed.
And befuddled.
Promising as its weirdness may have seemed to me, sadly I failed to connect. Having read and loved The Woman in the Dunes, I like to believe that there was a certain philosophical depth to The Box Man but it clearly evaded me. Other than a few spot-on existential gimmicks, it was mostly a drag for me, since I had lost interest rather early in the book, while the endless monologues following the narrator's non-linear thoughts didn't really help the situation. By no means trash. Just not what I expected.
So this book is weird, and I have to confess that I wasn't always exactly sure what was going on...Mainly the story reads like a journal of a "Box Man" or basically someone who has decided to drop out of society in favor of wearing a cardboard box at all times.
However, you can also tell that Abe has a background in science (medicine), because we are given detailed directions at the beginning regarding the construction of the box and specific details about survival methods, as though we were reading a manual on "How to be a Box Man." The story can be viewed as an examination of the intentionally homeless, existentialists, or a comment on the nature of identity.
A surreal tale about a fragile identity, and a place of the individual in this uncertain world. We are ready to believe the narrator, but before long we are asking who is he and how much can we believe of what he tells?Was it a real experiment or mystification, fantasies of a troubled mind, or just a dream? There can be numerous interpretations.
The whole intrigue involving the box man's endless scribbling on the walls of his cardboard confinement is heavily marked by Kafka's influence, however annoyingly redundant this statement may sound after countless comparisons having been made between the above and Kobo Abe. Reality not being able to decide on its own boundaries and other deeper connotations aside, if you want to learn how to make a box that would match and replace the comforts of your Ikea-inspired apartment, this book will give you quite detailed instructions on how to go about it.
"Japan's Kafka" or whatever,  (IMHO, any critic who resorts to any version or variation of  that fucking meaningless trick ought to be fired for  laziness, then blacklisted for disrespect.)so if you are into writing serious surreal prose, I'd check him out.Oh, and I like The Box Man better than Woman In The Dunes; so if you liked WITD and happen to like the same things I like you'll probably prefer this book too.
(Note: That fucking mad-ass trick where I totally deflated  the sentence before it was finished is known as "Shirkery".
I found this playfully odd, though serious at the same time. I think I overall preferred "The Woman in the Dunes," but there were some parts of this that I preferred over that. I suppose that doesn't really help anyone real much reading this, but with this book I don't think you can hope for that. Oh well, back to the box.
I liked Woman in the Dunes more-- it was more straightforwardly existentialist, made a bit more sense to me, retained powerful imagery-- but I still had a lot of fun with this one.Every image Abe conjures up brings to mind a different nightmarish thing I've encountered: the Japanese horror films of Shinya Tsukamoto and Takashi Miike, Beckett's Endgame, Eraserhead, the music of Throbbing Gristle, the oeuvre of David Cronenberg.
Note the overwhelming predominance of films on this list...
The whole thing is a car crash of modern primitivism, medical science, questions on authenticity and identity, and uncomfortable sexuality.
Linking a lot of these themes is a muted acknowledgment that Japanese society (or perhaps any form of Western-style culture) underlies the tensions at work in the novel.
This particular aspect is addressed more thoroughly in The Ark Sakura (where one might recognize a re-imagined box man, fake box man, doctor, and nurse), but even here it is significant that the box man withdraws into his corrugated shell, where everything essential in life is literally within arm's reach, where one is responsible to no one but him or her self, and where typical social desires can be sublimated into the dualism of misanthropy and self-loathing.Just an aside for all you Freudians - it is perhaps the most pivotal revelation of the novel that the primal scene, at least as experienced by the box man, is of a voyeuristic nature altogether different from what we find in the annals of classical psychoanalysis.
Abe is a writer who takes one really odd, central conceit or image, in this case, that of a derelict who lives his life inside a cardboard box, and builds a dark, disorienting world out of it.
Kind of like with the whale from 'Moby Dick', the symbol at work here seems to simultaneously represent everything and nothing but itself, which is kind of the point I think?This whole thing works because Abe's prose has this clinical, scientific precision, and he puts that to good use describing the skittering, staccato world of an impossibly weird individual.
էս կոբոյից տենց էլ գլուխ չհանեցի, չհասկացա ինչ եմ զգում նրա գործերի հանդեպ, բայց միանշանակ ա, որ ինքը դիմում ա հույզերիդ, ավելի ճիշտ՝ զգացումներիդ՝ հենց շատ զգայական֊ֆիզիոլոգիական֊մարմնային ձևով, մասնավորապես՝ հասարակություն֊անհատ, մեկուսացում֊կոնտակտ կոնտինիումի վրա գտնվող զգացումներիդ֊զգացմունքներիդ։ չգիտեմ մարդ կգտնվի՞ որ աբե կարդալուց սուր չզգա էդ հակասությունը ու կոնֆլիկտը հենց իր մեջ։ բայց չեմ կարող ասել, թե դուրս եկավ կամ չեկավ, դուր գալու կամ չգալու բան չէր
Πειραματικό, μπερδεμένο, γοητευτικά μυστηριακό κείμενο. Πρέπει σίγουρα να το ξαναδιαβάσω.

Damn--J-Lit Binge #11: The Box Man by Kobo Abe.This is another masterpiece from Kobo Abe. In its sheer metafictional ingenuity, it probably surpasses Nabokov's Lolita, Danielewski's House of Leaves, and other tricksters of modernism.Damn.Seemingly, it's a story about a man wearing a cardboard box getting involved in a mysterious series of events involving a beautiful nurse he falls in love with, a fake doctor who wants to become the new box man, and a real doctor who is a drug addict and who is killed (with his consent) by the fake doctor.And things get all weird as it seems like the "book" is written by the fake doctor and then the real doctor.
"The Box Man" is dimensional, there is something spatial about the way he put it together; when you read it straight through it comes out crooked, and the crooks are never to the left or right, but (forgive me for this) on the Z-axis somehow.
...Yet, I do not think it is inscrutable, or random.I wonder if females take an interest in this book because I find it intensely male, all wrapped up in the problems seemingly specific to men and the construction of their identities, so-called careers, flights from responsibility, sexual objectifications, social personas, formative embarassments, fatherhood issues, relation to women, wasteful fantasy, general ineptitude, violent solutions, guilt and so forth.
The female characters,despite some background rounding, exist primarily to give the male narrators an excuse to chew themselves up...
If I ask you to write 170 pages of whatever comes to your mind about yourself wandering around with an oversized box on your head, you would probably write a far more entertaining book than this...
I guess this is what Kobo Abe did when he pinned down his thoughts in this book, which I would not dare call a novel ..
If you enjoy reading other peoples' rambling thoughts about whatever, then you probably would enjoy this ...
I have four other of his novels on my list to read and I am already feeling the pain ...
While in a fugue state, I took a hit of acid or od'd on hallucinogenic shrooms because I seriously don't know what the fug else happened in the book.
(Let's set aside the fact that it's seriously sad that whilst in said fugue state, rather than going out and accidentally killing a hooker, I read instead.) I'm getting visuals of skinny girl legs pumping a bicyle, an empty box under a bridge, two box men staring at each other, a bunch of garbage, and the stench of my own unwashed confusion - scarily similar to the body odor emitted by a box man after a hot August day.Oh wait, I didn't have any acid or shrooms to take, so the book must have just been a Lynchian nightmare I had after eating too much KFC.
The problem of being looked at. Gazed upon. I wish Kobo Abe had been a feminist. Overall, I found it too conceptual to actually like. By chance, I happened to be handling a lot of boxes during the course of reading this and I have to say they're difficult to resist. They kind of want to be placed over the head.
I liked this much more than I expected. I planned to say something like "Kobo, you can type this shit, but you sure as hell can't read it." But I found that I could. There's two or three really good bits amongst a very tolerable amount of po-mo bullshit (writing upside down, photographs, characters arguing over who is writing the story, etc).
I've watched all five of Teshigahara's films of Kobo Abe's stories, so picked this up as supplementary identity-crisis deleted-scene. One quick airplane-bound reading later, The Box Man reigns as the best, most insane Abe story, the excellent films knocked down to second place.
ცოტა უცნაური წიგნია. ბოლომდე ვერ გავიგე, ბოლომდე გავიგე თუ ვერ გავიგე. ალბათ, out of the box მეტი ფიქრია საჭირო.
Daha önce yarım bıraktığım bir kitap, bugün tekrar döneyim dedim. Yazarın anlatımı ilginç ve karamsar bir taraf sahip. Bu karamsarlık başta beni çekse de pek alışabildiğimi söyleyemeyeceğim, hatta bir yerden sonra klostrofobik dünyası beni kendinden uzaklaştırdı. Yazarın başka kitaplarına bakıp anlatımı hakkında daha iyi bir fikir sahibi olmalıyım.
The Box Man exemplifies this, as Abe engages with the challenges of modern urban living, and issues like social isolation and lack of self-fulfillment, but in a manner that has humor, elements of metafiction, and that is generally far more entertaining to me than the works of the other Japanese authors I’ve listed.
As a matter of personal preference, I much preferred the whimsical tone it starts out with and sporadically returns to, rather than the other tones and the erratic shift between them, which (while understandable), is what made me find this book good but not great.The city is a place of social overload, where you are always surrounded by people, become addicted to constant streams of news, and obsess over material goods.
Also, it is a bit of a disappointing follow up to his great novel The Woman in the Dunes, which happens to be one of the best books I’ve ever read by any writer.Translated by E.
The letters are characters who don’t read very compellingly, and nor are they as memorable as those present from some of Abe's other books.The Box Man is not a particularly fun read, and it’s not very insightful — at least when comparing it to the other two works of his I’ve read.
2.5 starsCompared to his "The Woman in the Dunes" (Penguin, 2006), this novel was simply a bit disappointing due to my tedious reading on and on and I could not find any reason why the weird man prefers being naked and being in a box. ...To continue ...
agak lemas juga bila aku bayangkan aku sebagai watak itu, mungkin sebab aku bukan box man yang 'real'.membaca novel ini seperti membaca jurnal seseorang.
ada sedikit thrill di permulaan cerita yang buatkan kau mahu tahu kesudahannya tapi plot cerita agak berkecamuk dan mengelirukan, semacam suatu pengalaman trippin' - kadang2 kau rasa nak tergelak.
mungkin juga box man dalam novel ini adalah suatu cynicism kepada kehidupan yang terlalu konvensional dan mundane atau Kobo Abe pernah lalui sendiri kehidupan yg eksentrik ini, jadi dia dapat huraikan secara terperinci kehidupan seorang box man dan apa yg kau patut/tak patut buat untuk survive sebagai box man yg sejati.ia juga berkisar tentang isu apa-kau-rasa-bila-kau-curi-curi-perhati-orang-lain dan apa-pula-kau-rasa-bila-kau-pula-diperhatikan-orang lain.
malu?bila aku search kat IMDB, ada sebuah stop-motion shortie yang diinspirasikan dari novel ini arahan Nirvan Mullick.
