https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9903.Angels
It don’t know what to do.”Like so much fluid in a cheap plastic Bic, our lives flow along paths equally perplexing and predictable.
When you’re poor, your options are limited, and when your options are limited, it’s all too easy to take whatever cheap thrills you can get.
When those thrills revolve around substances, sex, and whatever it takes to retain those scraps of solace in your otherwise miserable life, it’s all too easy to end up on the wrong side of the law.
Why do I not have 5 kids fathered by a bunch of different baby daddies?
See, this game is all about making the right decisions.
And when you get stuck at the end with no more moves, you can simply go back go back go back and choose a different path.
Maybe it will be the right one and maybe not, and if it’s not, hey, no biggie, you can keep choosing until you finally get on the right path, or you can give up and accept that you're just not going to win this round.
A totally American book, it’s also got great prose, truly great, some of the ’80s’ best; e.g. lines like “All around them men drank alone, staring out of their faces."'I'd add that it's clear this is the first novel of a poet - one who'd been reading a lot of Robert Stone, Don DeLillo, and William Blake.
Many details hail from a late 1970s America that's now vanished, but there's a bedrock foundation to the characters' struggles and the story's bleak settings that makes Angels feel something like timeless.
I would have put this book down after chapter one except for two reasons: I was reading it with a small group, and it was only 209 pages.
I know it was Johnson's first novel, but if it's any indication of the direction of his work, I will not choose to read another one of his.The quality of the writing, the imagery, and some beautiful sentences has earned it 3 stars from me.
Not my kind of book is putting it mildly, but the novel has won awards and is liked a lot by other reviewers, so don't rely on my opinion alone.
Right from the early stages you get a sense of what type of people they are, Jamie is trailer trash and quite vulnerable who along with her two young daughters (one only being a baby) may be fleeing from her partner, while Bill has a confident swagger about himself but in the end is just a born loser and has lived a life in and out of prison.
There is so much unpleasantness to everything from the bars to the hotels, drugs, sexual violence and madness, but it's Jamie dragging her children around the dark seedy streets that I found particularly uncomfortable.
Jamie and her kids should have just stayed in Oakland.Denis Johnson writes some really dark stuff, even for noir.
I tried to care about Jamie through her 5 year old Miranda and baby Ellen...but aside from one incredibly horrible interlude in Chicago, I could not connect with her.
Some authors can write from the perspective of or about a character of the opposite gender, but sadly, Denis Johnson isn't one of them.
Too noir for me, over all.
The last chapter is a hard one.
The characters are no "angels" and they continue down a slippery slope at a very rapid pace.
This is not a story of redemption.
I can only recommend to folks who don't mind gritty and unsavory characters.
This book has multiple characters who all think they are leaving something horrible for something better but it's in direct contrast to this situation.
Note: another read that influenced Donald Ray Pollock.
On another note, thank goodness a parent didn't ask me what this was about while reading at my kiddo's ballgame....:crickets!
I keep a short list of books that I consider Great-writing-Painful-to-read.
A cringe accompanied by pain on nearly every page.
Powerful.
Memorable.*** Angels.
Squalor, drug use, alcoholism, rape, murder, and good old insanity.
Too well done and Painful.
** Others on the list- for alcoholism Malcom Lowry's Under The Volcano will leave you in a fog for weeks.
* Theodore Dreiser's An American tragedy forces the reader to truly feel the shame a murderer carries.* And last as well as the one I most want to completely forget, American Psycho.
All on my list of books not to read again.
In Johnson’s short stories, the characters are often those who live on the edge of society.
In Angels, Johnson again focuses on people living on the margins and while it’s far from an uplifting book, his characters come alive in all their flawed humanity.
When he shook it out and the world came back, it was the same place again where all his decisions had been made a long time ago”.The dialogue rings true throughout the book and the writing is lyrical and filled with descriptive passages that burn brightly.
This book has been on my to-read list for about a decade.
We start of with Jamie, a runnaway mother with two small children on a greyhound bus who despite being “done with men” hooks up with Bill Houston on the bus and together they journey down into the pits of life – drug use, alcohol, rape, robbery, insanity, murder, execution.Johnson packed a lot into his compact book and I think the story could have been better embelished, the characters more fleshed out.
She’s wonderfully insane.
Desperation.
All the people in this book are bogged down with sadness and desperation.The writing is wonderfully done.
Drogados. Bêbedos. Ladrões. Violadores. Assassinos.Viagens de autocarro. Hotéis miseráveis. Prisões. Manicómios.Marginais...Com este "pacote" abandono qualquer livro às primeiras páginas (não por preconceito, mas por desinteresse), mas Denis Johnson não mo permitiu. Não gostava das personagens nem do que faziam mas fiquei; prisioneira da escrita e fascinada com a forma como Denis Johnson transforma o horror numa obra de arte. Não é um livro para guardar no coração, mas valeu a pena...aquele final...
I got Denis Johnson and Dennis Cooper mixed up. Big mistake. One is a loathsome creep and the other is clearly the American prose master I have missed these many years, but intend to catch up on very soon. I see DJ just won the National Book Award.  To my ears DJ has the best ear for hardboiled dialogue since Raymond Chandler although it's clear he doesn't give a rat's ass about plot. But on this broke busted disgusted bum steer of a planet you takes em where you finds em.
Johnson's first novel, Angels is a savage downward spiral of people who you at first recoil from at their lack of self control, then come to love as the chaos reveals itself as something much greater than mere individuals.
A gorgeous portrayal of confusion, drugs, and madness— a crying angel with roving tattoos is the center of my favorite scene, second only to the ending, which I won't spoil here.
The heartrending moments of truth come with less immediacy than they do in some of Johnson's other works, such as Jesus' Son, and for that bit of down time I'm opting for 4 stars rather than 5, but overall this is an utterly moving read.
My own life was too stressful, and you better be on solid ground when you read Angels, because Johnson isn't going to spare you anything.
Johnson gets away with it because of his immense delicacy.
When he leads his man to the gas chamber, I worried for the author, wondered how Johnson was getting through it (I recall how Chekhov agonized over killing the child in "In the Ravine").
He's going to the same place your brain goes during nightmares—hitting those dread notes, behind which there better be something divine, what Johnson would probably call grace (see angels of title), or we're all in trouble.
One of Johnson's best, and he's at his best when relatively pared down and going for the heart rather than the brain.
The story contains a group of misfits each one stuck in their own self-made prisons, either by addiction or childbirth or both, and the reader cannot help but feel she is looking over a great manmade rat maze with no end but death for the participating creatures that cannot see outside of the walls society, family, and their own choices, even without free will, have erected to make sure they never see another world, another way of being.
DEATH IS THE MOTHER OF BEAUTY
4.5 stars. What an ending. The last 30 pages or so were absolutely worthy of 5 stars.
Angels is the sad story of two people on the fringes of society: Jamie, escaping what she thinks is a terrible life with her two young daughters and Bill Houston, a drifter ex-military, ex-con, alcoholic looking for his next high and easy money.
The horror and powerlessness of how that would feel in brief moments of lucidity was absolutely perfectly rendered by Johnson, and it was terrifying (The Yellow Wallpaper by Gilman comes close, but not quite).
I don't want to give anything away, but I will say that I don't know how a person could read through Bill Houston's last chapters and not be affected, even if it just makes you pause and think.

Denis Johnson's vision of spirituality in a fallen world holds an intense fascination for me.
Johnson is unflinching in his depiction of the circles of hell through which they travel (one scene in particular is among the most disturbing I have ever endured) but at the core of the novel, beyond the ultimate hell- the hell of the self- is a sense of hope both elusive and, paradoxically, blinding in its purity.
Heaven and hell, hope and despair, worldly filth and spiritual cleanliness: seeming opposites are twinned like twisted serpents through these dazzlingly written pages.
This novel is the literary equivalent of a switchblade knife. The prose is luminous. The story is biting. The characters are vivid. David Foster Wallace believed this novel to be sorely unappreciated, and I would have to agree with him. An outstanding work.
deliriously goodHe got up and went to the counter. "One small order of French fries," he told the boy. They were the only customers in the establishment, and so the boy hustled to fill the order, rocketing around in his very own fast food universe, a tiny world half machine and half meat.

Más de 4.
If I ever make it to the end of this short novel it will be a miracle. If I had something good to say about it, I'd tell you. Spoiler Alert! The title Angels is a misnomer.
In there a contributor wrote that it was more powerful than Train Dreams, and I was hooked in - how could it be?The story is about Bill Houston, an ex-con living on his wits and petty crime in Chicago dreaming of the criminal big time when the novel begins.
Johnson spends a wonderful few passages describing Bill's mother and his brothers.
His life in Phoenix soon mirrors the Chicago days, until he and his brothers come up with a plan to get rich quick.
First published in 1983, this was Johnson's first novel.
The poetic tragedy of a bunch of losers who are destined to come to a bad end and don't care much about it until it's too late.
I think David Foster Wallace included this on his list of the Ten Most Underrated and Unnoticed Books of the Late Twentieth Century - or something like that.
The violence isn't vividly displayed because that's not the point - the truth is that there's relatively little - but the thoughts of the principal characters as they swirl in the currents before being sucked down the drain are strangely beautiful, this tension between inviting and avoiding a tragic end - or not really caring - really affected me.
Great book.
Denis Johnson's debut novel is a fractured examination on morality and mortality using sad, lowlife characters.
The story shifts and we meet more sad, desperate characters.
While the scope does expand and the story unfolds a bit unpredictably, at least in its middle portions(where the grinding gears of a plot may be at work, but the writing is so restrained that you barely notice) it is still unmistakably about Jamie and Bill.
The real joy of this thing is the writing.
This is one of the best novels I've read in maybe a year or two and the first in awhile that made me want to throw out whatever I have been writing and start over again.
A história de Jamie e Bill Houston (até a forma como os nomes encaixam é reveladora) começa como uma odisseia inconsequente até se perder nos limites da decadência, não passa muito até entrarmos num submundo aparte, infernal e surreal.Denis Johnson escreve a sua prosa como quem pinta um quadro, com amor à sua arte, trabalhando os artifícios da história e desafiando a realidade que criou até ao limite do que vulgarmente apelidamos de real.
É na irreverência e acidez, da forma como conta a sua visão da salvação, que se nota a estreia literária.
