https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/377993.Joe
Sociologist could use Larry Brown's "Joe" as a Southeastern study journal.
The goodness of heart in some and the evil souls of others.
You would not want Joe in your family.
Would you want Joe as your friend?
Through thick or thin, Joe is there for his friends.
Doesn't matter your station in life, if you're Joe's friend then he'll celebrate the good times with you and he is just as quick to help you in the bad times.
Now if you find yourself on Joe's bad side.
If Joe is your enemy, you've got two choices...
I think Joe is going to become a classic as time goes on for many reasons, and its striking imagery, human honesty and relatable plot make it one of the best I've read so far this year.
You get a view here of destitution so extreme that one family shown here has dropped through a crack and they live in another ( non driving ) dimension.the view from a bench seat at 60 miles an hour is quite different from a muddy high-way shoulder among discarded beer cans miles from nothing.All the men in this novel drink heavily even as they simultaneously piss it out the other end.
He sees a young he when he sees him, and he's trudging his rut, and he ain't wanna see him doin' this.
But usually things ain't work out that way, things often go sour, and one of them two might get ruined or worse.
So him stands out and wards off the odds for him, and him chooses to destroy himself to salvate himThat's all I've learnt from reading this book :)I wrote this for thanking the late Larry Brown(to be continued)
Fay, Father and Son, Joe. That’s the current order, liable to change at any time. Except I can’t imagine an order where Fay wouldn’t be first. I’m glad to know that when she walks out of the story in Joe, she walks right into her own.
I can't recall how I stumbled upon southern writer Larry Brown, but I thank Christ I did. He's become one of my favorite authors of all time. He passed away several years ago, and I truly miss his work. JOE was the first Brown book that I read and I was immediately hooked. Larry Brown had such a feel for characters, place, conflict, pacing, and plot. He was a master.
This man has no limits to what he would do to see the emptying of a bottle, he is the real bad guy of the tale, the wicked heart.The main character Gary, is what has you in the story.The author has you wanting to know of what his becoming will be and hooked in the narrative.The great writing has you immersed in the momentum and has you seeing great words in motion, scenes unfolding like you are there in visceral pace at times.This my first to read of Larry Brown’s and did so now due to the movie adaption, that was longer than i had planned considering Frank Bill’s recommendation to this novel back when i hosted in an interview with him here>>http://more2read.com/review/interview-with-frank-billLarry Brown in my mind can be considered a writer up there with writers who have crafted memorable and likeable southern characters like that of the great William Faulkner and the living Cormac McCarthy, alongside writers like Daniel Woodrell, Frank Bill, Donald Ray Pollock, and many others.Some excerpts that show you his skill.“It was that part of the evening when the sun has gone but daylight still remains.
You might be a redneck if you read this novel, and you feel as though you’ve met a few of your kin.
You might be a redneck if you read between these pages, and you feel like you’re coming home.
You might be a redneck if words like y’all and fixin’ to flow freely from your lips.
You might be a redneck if JOE makes you feel all warm and fuzzy inside.
At least according to the latest poll where we’re ranked as the two most obese states.So, yes, one could make the argument that I already had a predisposition to like this novel, and I’d agree with you.
I must of read a different book than y'all did. The story was slow, with little happening, and an unsatisfying end. The characters were mostly uninteresting and underdeveloped, with occasional hints, and stereotypical: the men were all drunkards, and the women interesting mostly in companionship (or sex.) Male arguments were either resolved with guns, knives or fists. White trash.
Taken together, the characters make Faulkner’s Snopes family look like the Cleavers, and I would understand if readers pulled away from the book after 20 or 30 pages simply because the stench and the naked, ragged lives of the people Brown shows us are almost too much to bear.
Though we would be sorely tempted to turn away from them if we met them in real life, Brown makes us turn toward them, with a language like raw blues and a sympathy that makes them something much more than wrong.
This book is a gritty, character-driven story of an alcoholic ex-con and the 15-year old boy he somewhat takes under his wing.
He meets Joe by convincing him to give him a job, showing himself to be a hard worker and responsible individual, amazing considering where he came from.What makes this book so fascinating to me is the central character Joe. He is both a unapologetic drunk, somewhat violent with very little tolerance for the law.
The author clearly distinguishes between a good murder and a bad one.
It just goes to show, a really good writer can throw away his thesaurus and still create beautiful and literary prose.Brown is also a master at creating a subtle sense of tension and feeling of hopelessness, which is a hallmark of Southern Gothic Fiction...the life sucks and then you die view of the world.
I think what draws fans of the genre, though, is the knowledge that life sucks a lot more for some than others.
There's something sobering and, at times, strangely satisfying about confronting just how unfair and cruel life can be.Would recommend this to fans of the genre.
I LOVE Larry Brown.
I cannot be the least bit rational or objective.
I see his flaws (though they be of the sort I wish I could cultivate in my own work) and I don't mindthat the descriptions are sometimes overlong, the sentiment sometimes just a tad old fashioned.
This was a writer with a heart as huge as the world.
His authority to tell it like he sees it, and hang the consequences, makes for the cleanest and most heart rending prose I can think of.
Brown, to me, is like the soul of writing.
He is a poet in prose's clothing; a prophet spitting chewing tobacco.
I love him.
Southern-fried gothic. Grab a bourbon, put your car up on blocks, get depressed, and read this book. Not bad 'tall.
If you like "earthy" southern books you may like Joe, or anything by Larry Brown. If you like vivid living characters, you will probably like Joe. If you like powerful minimalist writing, you will probably like Joe. You get the point!I am both a writer and a reader. Larry Brown is, for me, among the top 5 most important writers of the 20th century -- along with Raymond Carver, John Steinbeck and Ernest Hemingway. Oddly, I made my book club read Joe and most of them did not like it -- so this kind of book is not for everyone.
Unforgettable masterpiece.I might write more tomorrow but tonight I'm just not up to doing it justice.Previous Notes:November 12, 2013 – Shelved as: to-readApril 8, 2018 – Started ReadingApril 8, 2018 – page 00.0% "My last and final unread Larry Brown novel."April 8, 2018 – page 5415.34%April 14, 2018 – page 10630.11% "I've been caught up with current events for the past several days.
Outrage daily intensifying, I need to return to the world ...Mississippi of my twenties."April 14, 2018 – page 15945.17% "Beautiful writing as mournful as a funeral."April 14, 2018 – page 17750.28% "I gotta lay my burden down for the night, to quote Furry Lewis.Fay walks on page 161.
I’ve read some wonderful books this year, including books by some of my favorite writers, such as, Ian McEwan, Michael Chabon, Alice Munro, Junot Diaz, Gillian Flynn, Joyce Carol Oates, Dennis Lehane, Larry McMurtry, Elmore Leonard, and Kate Atkinson, and what surprises me most about Larry Brown, author of JOE, is that by virtue of that one book he has vaulted from complete obscurity within my admittedly very limited awareness of contemporary ‘greats’ to very near the tippy-top sharp end of the list.
This is not a happy story at all but if you’re a fan of grit lit and the dirty south you will probably enjoy this book as much as I did.
The story centers around the unlikely friendship between Joe and Gary, but the character who really caught my attention was Gary’s father Wade who is probably the most vile and disgusting man I have read in some time.
The ending of the book was ambiguous but I let my imagination run wild and I prayed that Wade met his fate in the proper manner.
A quick, engrossing, and yet very challenging read. Challenging, not in the difficulty of its prose, but in the stark reality portrayed by its elegantly simple prose. Excruciatingly painful to see how hard some people strive to do right and how effortlessly other people slip into total depravity. Also poignantly portrays people's perceived powerlessness to alter what appears to be their pre-ordained path. I found myself wanting to reach through the pages of this book, into the lives of those portrayed within, and fix things. But, honestly, they were simply too broken.
A few in this book lived better than just surviving.
While I enjoyed riding with Joe, working hard by day, drinking hard both day and night, and generally being an easy target for local law enforcement, I kept looking for anything to shock me, to move me, or to lead me to hope for real change.
Joe makes me uncomfortable, he is my neighbor, or my cousin, and Brown made him a little too real.
Oh, and I guess Joe never heard that alcohol is a depressant.
Enough of this abusive realism, I think I'll just stay home and keep company with my bottle of Old Crow.

I can't get enough of Larry Brown's books; "sad and beautiful" does not do justice to the very real, stark and poetic stories he tells.
To simply call his work "Southern" or "Faulkneresque" oversimplifies the originality of his gifts as a writer.
If you haven't read any of Brown's work, Joe is a great place to start.
Depressing as hell, sure, but, like a great sad song (Mark Lanegan, anyone?), tanscendently moving, indelibly affecting and ultimately uplifing through the sheer power of artful storytelling.
The simplicity and power of his words are more important than the plot itself.
A book about a sorry bunchI listen to this as an audible book. I am not sure what to say about Joe and his world of white trash. It is a foreign world to me but Larry Brown presents at convincingly in his writing.
Joe Ransom is a 43 yr old good ol boy who lives and works just south of Oxford, MS.
(I assume it's legal.) Joe starts early in the morning (4:30am) with coffee (maybe a little whiskey too) and is on the phone first thing trying to round up his workers.
They find and squat in an old and abandoned cabin near where Joe is working.
Wade's 15-16 yr old son, Gary, wants to work and he gets a job with Joe's crew.
The writer of this book is Larry Brown (1951-2004).
'Joe' was a memorable, tough, earthy tale, told by a author who had a remarkable handle on the human condition. So sorry we lost Larry Brown so soon. I probably will not watch the movie because somehow I doubt the cinematic version can do justice to the word-painting in this novel.
Larry Brown's Joe Ransom is captured as a hard edged, ex-convict who drinks, (and drives!!), smokes way too much, is his own man, who doesn't like to be told what to do.
The way Brown writes the story is almost like a series of little vignettes, but if you keep going (and you can't help but turn the pages) you'll see how it all ties together.
He was the epitome of a real loser.The book was published about 20 years ago, but in my opinion it is a story that still resonates today.
Don't expect sweet with this story.
Amazing Writing, Frustrating Story!I will read this book again.
The writing is beautiful and descriptive, the characters are raw and real, but right now I am reeling from the ending!Amazon.com summarizes Joe in this way: "Nearing fifty, Joe Ransom won't slow down....But all the fast living in Mississippi won't fill the hunger Joe can't name.
I read through this novel so quickly; I would like to read it a second time and really think about it.
And I will definitely read other books by this author in the future.
Please read this novel and share your thoughts.
But the fact is, all the ugliness in this book was made nearly beautiful by the simple and elegant prose that turned mud, puke, piss, and depravity into something poetic, just another part of the natural landscape these characters traversed.
And it kept me turning the pages, wondering what would happen to these characters by the end, the ending surprisingly vague and somewhat ambiguous, depending upon whether or not you are an optimist.
I would recommend it as a book club selection and for any reader in need of appreciating his own set of circumstances.
I couldn't believe how much I hated Wade as I was reading it, and how much I loved Gary and Joe. I was getting really close to the end, and I actually started getting worried because I thought that there was no way he was going to be able wrap the story up so that I felt satisfied by the end...there was so much going on.
What a great little messed up tale.
If you've ever felt like you were taking one step forward to take three steps back then you have only a taste of what this book is all about.
Character development is outstanding, reads quickly, and the wonderful flow that avoids the pitfalls often spliced into simple plots like this one.
Brown does a great job doling out bits of the past life and background a little at a time, saving some of the most riveting pieces of the puzzle until the very end.
Not a refreshing read, but who reads a book described as this one for motivation anyhow?
