https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/454856.Look_Me_in_the_Eye
I wanted to read a memoir about growing up within a dysfunctional family and also having a condition that makes life different, but what I read was about his experiences with sound engineering, some good stories that you can hear in any bar and, occasionally, his Asperger's.
He writes that he wanted also to show what life with Asperger's was like, how those with the condition are different.
Robison is also the older brother of Running with Scissors author Augusten Burroughs.
One interesting element of this book is that Robison describes some of the same events as Burroughs, but from the older brother perspective.
And where Running with Scissors was a funny, but absurd parade of grotesques, Look Me in the Eye is a balanced, clear, simple, well written account of a life on the periphery of society, banished because of a disorder that also gave him savant-like skills.Finally, the fact that he worked for KISS and created Ace Frehley's stage guitars makes this an even more cool book to enjoy.

I was especially moved by his perfectly rational reason why Aspies don’t show emotion over tragic events that don’t directly affect them: "People die every minute, all over the world.
If we tried to feel sorry for every death, our little hearts would explode." And he’s absolutely right.Look Me in the Eye is one of the few books on Asperger's Syndrome that is not a dry training manual on the condition.
I will always be grateful to Robison for telling his story because someone I'm close to has Asperger's, and I can now see that this person's eccentric way of doing things makes perfectly good sense to him, even if it sometimes doesn't to me.
He had family with troubles, kids and people that were mean.
They didn't know he had something like he had and people didn't understand most of that stuff back then.
A lot of people are just mean.
--->EXCERPT<---By the time I was twelve, I had progressed from "If he doesn't get better, he may have to be institutionalized" to "He's a weird, screwed-up kid." But although my communication abilities had developed by leaps and bounds, people had ever higher expectations for me, and I began having trouble with what the therapists called "inappropriate expressions."John was also abused by his alcoholic father.
John was very smart and making things.
Some are not treated bad but we all know the world, there seems to be more bad people than good.
I guess that's all a matter of perspective - with it being such a wide spectrum and some people arguing that those with Asperger's are just introverts being psychologically diagnosed for being different, a book like Look Me in the Eye is sure to draw out polarizing opinions from both experts and average readers alike.One thing I just found rather annoying personally was the wallowing in dysfunctional family drama.
I was quickly horrified to learn that the author is the real-life brother of Augusten Burroughs, author of Running with Scissors.
But I decided that I would try not to hold Robison's family against him and read his book.I have to admit, given my son's placement on the autism spectrum, books that approach that subject matter spark my interest.
It's clear that I could not read this book with my usual academic detachment.But here goes with the rest.
Robison was able to do something his brother failed to do in Running With Scissors, conclude the story.
Before I read John Elder Robison's LOOK ME IN THE EYE: MY LIFE WITH ASPERGER'S, I knew enough about the syndrome and about my brother to mentally peel off the Asperger's label that my mother stuck on my late brother.
Having no interest in the lives of the abusive alcoholic father and certifiably crazy mother of Augusten Burroughs and John Elder Robison, no interest in KISS and the other bands that benefitted from Robison's brilliance, no interest in complex electrical engineering projects, I read LOOK ME IN THE EYE for only one reason.
I wanted to feel, from the first page of Robison's memoir to the last, that I was not reading about my brother.
I'm always nervous of memoirs and, particularly, adult books...because I am Peter Pan, okay??
And I think this gives you a fantastic view of how being Aspergic is sometimes an "invisible thing" and it can affect your life 100% but people just assume you're being belligerent or annoying or, as was John Elder's experience, "most likely to end up a serial killer" despite him being a very non-violent person.
GAWSH.So for someone who's allergic to both memoirs AND adult books and yet loved this???
I say that it is funny because he is very light hearted about his trials and tribulations.One thing he mentions about asperger's is the autistic spectrum, and that with his strong memories of himself as a child, he strongly feels that if he had not been around other people who offered social and intellectual stimulation for him, he may have slipped into autism.
I think this is incredibly important for parents to realize and to obtain early intervention if they even suspect delays with their child.JER further goes on to explain that as he progressed socially through the years, he lost many of his abilities.
The book often made me angry, however, with its characteristic habits (which I find among "normal" men as well as Aspies) of blowing off anything that he personally wasn't interested in or good at as unimportant...
And not all "normal" people prefer platitudes to actual conversation -- and when we do, it is often for a functional reason.
I do hope to review it eventually, but for now I'm really glad I've finally finished it.I read the paperback, which apparently has been "cleaned up" in terms of language compared to the original hardcover.
I really enjoyed this book. It was insightful, witty, and entertaining. I'm sending it on to a friend whose son has Asperger's. I'm watching Running with Scissors again as there were many references to it in the book.
Worst of all, John would often look at the floor when someone talked to him, and grownups often yelled at him to "look me in the eye!
After he dropped out of high school, he started working with a local band because he was good at fixing their sound equipment.
This led to a job traveling around the country fixing sound equipment for other bands, and he also designed special effects for Ace Frehley from KISS.
Later, John worked at Milton Bradley designing some early electronic games.
The book does a good job of showing the thought processes of someone with Asperger's.
Haven't read Augusten Burroughs' books so didn't feel a connection on that level.
Sorry the author had a crappy childhood (like a lot of kids w/alcoholic parents) and that he had a tough time socially (like a lot of kids) but this guy has had a way more successful life than almost anyone I know ...
Not 1 but 3 amazingly successful lucrative careers, not 1 but 2 deep and meaningful long-term relationships, a great kid, a beautiful house ...
Am I supposed to feel sorry for this guy because he's a genius w/Asperger's?
I dunno.
Easy to read.
While Robinson insists he has feelings (and they can be hurt) (which is a good thing to remind people without experience with autism spectrum disorders) I think he demonstrates throughout the book that people with Asperger's simply cannot ever put themselves in anyone else's shoes.
Instead of at least thinking "Okay, this person is telling me X, and while I can't understand it, I'll at least accept that THEY think X" Robinson (and the student I worked with) go on and on and on and on and ON about why the other person thinking or feeling X is completely WRONG.
Several times I laughed out loud, and then was stumped how to answer my son's question, "What's so funny, Momma?""Well, son, he sent a blow up doll to his crappy teacher."Or:"You see, Sam, he shot a snake that was slithering around outside his hotel room."No, none of those would do.While I loved reading the many misadventures of Robison, I also felt a great deal of sorrow; for his troubled childhood and for how misunderstood he was as a person with Asperger's.
How differently Aspergians (his word) view the world, and while they may seem cold and unaware, they are not.
This is one of the best books I've read all year - and the cover is fantastic too. I've been reading the author's blog (jerobison.blogspot.com) and find myself wanting to read the book again. It's really one guy's story about trying to get through life - but he happens to be Augusten Burrough's brother, he worked for KISS for several years and he has Asperger's - well-written, clever and funny in so many ways.
So much so that I first began wondering if his way of thinking didn't make more sense, then wondering if Aspergian aren't more normal than the normal person, and finally, "Maybe I'm a bit Aspergerish myself."Not everyone will be able to relate to his life (from a fairly normal family, to an abusive family, to severely mentally handicapped parents, out of school at 16, and on the road with KISS by age 18) but his struggles with relationships and understanding are universal.
However, if you are a parent of an Aspergian, this should be required reading.
In his time, the only autism that was "seen" was the extreme cases, the ones that were locked away in worlds of their own, that couldn't function in society at all.I was drawn to this book for a few reasons.
He eventually quit trying because he couldn't take any more rejections from the children he was trying to make friends with.His life took some wild curves and turns, and it wasn't until he was in his 40s that he was diagnosed with Asperger's.
I was just saying the other day that it's interesting to read the family connection between John Elder Robison and his more well-known writing sibling; you can see a literary resemblance between John and his brother.
Sad as it may be, learning otherwise added a new dimension of compassion to my understanding of these disorders.Back to John Robison--he's a funny guy, and it's hard to tell if it's intentional all the time, but I'll take it.
I was expecting this memoir to be an astonishing insight into Asperger's syndrome, a glimpse into the mind of the author.
Instead, what I got was a bunch of semi-interesting stories about this dude's life, with the Asperger's aspect as almost an afterthought.
Other reviews I've read have called Robison a "born storyteller" but I personally didn't find this to be all that engrossing.
You'd think that one would be able to make touring with Kiss into a enjoyable story...but the writing was so robotic that it wasn't holding my attention very well.
I suppose that's part of the syndrome itself, which is why I'm giving this a second star.
This book was a bit odd. It wasn't really about Asperger's as much as it was the story of Robison's life thus far - he wasn't diagnosed with any type of autistic disorder until he was in his later 30s. There were parts that were quite interesting, but nothing seemed really cohesive. Not bad, exactly, just not great.****4/15 - This book was so unmemorable to me, I accidentally rebought it when it was the Kindle Deal of the Day. Crap.
I did a whole bloody review and it disappeared. When I stop being cross about it I will write a proper one. Maybe.I wish there was an automatic save function as there is on some blogging sites.Hate hate hate losing a review.
I struggled to learn as a child, but I was lucky enough to have a happy childhood, full of friends and siblings to play with and wonderful parents.John Robison's story is a funny autobiography of a child growing up with Asberger's Syndrome.
He also tells how he had to leave his little brother with their two nutty parents, though that boy grew up to also be an author and wrote 'Writing with Scissors', which I'm dying to read.John learns in his adult years to connect to people like he always wanted and gets married.
Memoirists focus on details and scenes from their lives that they want to convey without giving us enough context or background to appreciate what we're reading.
However, as a long-time fan of Augusten Burroughs, his brother famous for "Dry" and "Running with Scissors," I was very interested to experience Robison's point of view, especially given his Asberger's condition.
I wanted more about the family dynamics and more information about the other characters in the book, but again, because this is a memoir, we only get details about Robison's inner life, and the focus seems to deviate.
This is a very interesting book. Too bad he wasn't diagnosed at a younger age and he wouldn't have had to discover everything for himself. It makes me want to be more understanding of people with this and other syndromes. Ifthere is supposedly 1 out of 150 people with this syndrome, I think I know some and will be less critical of their behavior.
Two wives, one child and a diagnosis later, Robison is much more content with himself than he was growing up, and after the first release of his memoir, he discovered that pretty much everyone experiences similar feelings of loneliness and alienation, and don't fit in as well as they think they should.It's an amazing story and a wonderful opportunity to see inside the head of someone with Asperger's.
The difference between the way an Aspergian thinks and the way non-Aspergians think comes across in the writing, which also makes it harder to read.The story jumps around a lot, and new phases of life or people's names are dropped in without introduction or priming, which makes it hard to follow at times.
So folks hear some conversational misstep and say, “What an arrogant jerk!” I look forward to the day when my handicap will afford me the same respect accorded to a guy in a wheelchair.Many descriptions of autism and Asperger’s describe people like me as “not wanting contact with others” or “preferring to play alone.” I can’t speak for other kids, but I’d like to be very clear about my own feelings: I did not ever want to be alone.What I do know is that all of us have far more in common than we realize… I may look and act pretty strange at times, but deep down I just want to be loved and understood for who and what I am.
I couldn't see the humor in his interactions or his pranks, (Like leaving his brother head first in a deep hole, or making "cocaine" at work) despite his dismissal in epilogue claiming no one got hurt.
For example in his chapter about naming, he talks about naming people what he like (He calls his wife Unit 2, and his parents Slave and Stupid), but gets angry when they don't respect his made-up names.Last, I was troubled with Robison's chapter about how Asperger's is essentially a choice.
I feel like by making Asperger's seem like a choice, it disrespects and blames the children (and their families) who are on a different part of the spectrum.
This was such a fascinating book - the author has Aspergers, and this autobiography offers great insight into the way his mind(and those of other Aspergians)works and processes things.
The most interesting passage, in my opinion, is when he proposes that perhaps many people born within the Autism spectrum have the ability (depending upon their personal circumstances) to shift where they are within that spectrum -either gradually becoming more outgoing and social, or withdrawing further into their own minds, away from human interaction.
His inability to read social cues, and his unconstrained loathing of certain people make for some hilarious stories.
