https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/956650.Inter_Ice_Age_4
Կոբո Աբեն ծանր գրող ա։ Սա երկրորդ գործն էր, որ կարդացի, բայց երկար կարդացի։ Աբեն տեքստով չի գրավում, գիշերներն էլ չես լուսացնի այս գրողի գործերը կարդալով։ Բայց նրա բարձրացրած թեմաները կարեւոր ու հետաքրքիր են։ Միայն ավարտելուց հետո, երբ պետք ա նստես կարդացածդ մարսես, սկսում ես հասկանալ, որ Աբեն մտածելու տեղ ա տվել։ Այս գործում օրինակ աբորտների մասին ու ինչ կարող է լինել, եթե մարդիկ իմանան իրենց ապագան։
On the other hand, seeing the evidence presented in the ext itself, it's very likely that I and any other reader would have anticipated the endpoint far before the protagonist even without such tips.
A lot of interesting ground covered here, but ground that could be much more mysterious and urgent if I wasn't able to anticipate its course quite so well.Incidentally, I think that Abe -- as the author of Women in the Dunes -- also wrote three other Teshigara films of the 60s, of which I've seen only The Face of Another.
Taču šoreiz man sanāca pamatīgs “aplauziens”.Salīdzinoši netālā nākotnē PSRS uzbūvē pareģošanas mašīnu MASKAVA-I, tā dod lielu atspērienu tautsaimniecībai un liek kapitālistiskajām valstīm satrūkties.
Lai mašīna nebūtu jādemontē Katsumi piedāvā kompromisu, simulēt atsevišķa indivīda nākotni, Tagad tikai jāatrod īstais indivīds.NO viens puses kārtējais fatālistiskais japāņu gabals, kur viss ir slikti un galveno varoni velk uz suicīdu Taču atšķirībā no Murakami šim autoram trūkst idejas plašuma (varbūt netrūkst, bet viņš neprot izteikties) un spējas strukturēti uzrakstīt savas pārdomas.
Viss kopumā ir tik samocīts, ka atliek vien piekrist galvenā varoņa palīgiem, šādā gadījumā vislabākais ir piespiedu iemidzināšana.Es jau saprotu kādēļ padomju laikā šī grāmata bija laba, tajā kritizēja imperiālismu, parādīja PSRS pārākumu.
And Inter Ice Age 4 is all those things, with a startling science fictional premise to boot.One of the joys (or discomforts, depending) of reading Abe is having almost no idea where he is going with a story.
There is a healthy dose of WTF every few pages, and the conclusion of the story - a vignette of one of an unnamed inhabitant of the far future underwater world exploring the ancient remains of a city - is one of the finest science fictional set pieces I've read.
An absolutely unhinged delight - worth tracking down for sci-fi fans or admirers of Abe. The book is a string of surprising plot twists (it was published serially so I think this would have made more sense), veering from intellectual conversations of communism to a quite decent Raymond Chandler pastiche to a Philip K Dick Minority Report vibe to a grotesque horror in the Dr. Moreau vein, to finally, future fiction. It leans heavily on similes and the characterizations are lean (Abe admits this in the postscript), but it's really quite a romp. Check it out.
Without his knowledge, the machine was used to predict the ending of the fourth ice age and the sinking of Japan.
Once the professor discovered the abuse of his forecasting machine, the novel morphed into a philosophical discussion into the morality of interfering with the natural evolution of the human race (which in itself was as a metaphor to argue the morality of predicting the future.)Inter Ice Age blends Sakyo Komatsu’s works (virus and japan sinks) with 2001: A Space Odyssey.
Fans of science fiction will enjoy Inter Ice Age, especially if they do not mind reading endless dialogues.
It is a complex story set in a near-future Japan threatened by the melting of the polar icecaps.
The protagonist Professor Katsumi has been in charge of developing a computer/information system capable of predicting human behaviour.
Fatally for him this system predicts his compulsive refusal to go along with his associates and his government in the creation of genetically engineered children adapted for life in the rising seas.
Most of the novel narrated by Katsumi deals with a philosophical confrontation between his deeply alienated refusal of the future and the computer's knowing representations of that refusal and the alternatives to it.
One of Abe's lesser novels, lacking the ascetic intensity of the works that would follow, but still incredibly advanced for what appears at first to be simple genre fiction. A basic PKD-esque premise (pre-cog operator is implicated by his own machine) mutates into body horror and ends up as Drexciyan trans-humanist parable. Highly recommended!
Weird shit.
Դե արի ու էս ճապոնացիներից գլուխ հանիր. սրանք ավարտ գրել չգիտեն ։))) Վերջաբանը չհաշված, միանշանակ արժե կարդալ։
Inter Ice Age 4 is known for being visionary.
Written in the late 1950s, it accurately predicted: climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions and the melting of glaciers and the polar ice caps as the result of climate change, supercomputers, genetic modification, and more.
Unfortunately, this is all a bit forgotten for large parts of the book because the book is incredibly clunky.Some of the dialogue is just bizarre, and some doesn't even make sense.
I was left thinking about them after I finished reading the book and they had quite an impact on me.
"Странная история профессора Кацуми, талантливого учёного и пошлого обывателя, поразила воображение и заставила задуматься, вероятно, не одного читателя".
Книга заставляющая думать о том, какая ответственность положена на нас как на человека, открывающая конфликт будущего и настоящего.
Это начало конца, которому каждому из нас доведётся быть свидетелем.Для меня эта книга была одной из лучших к моменту прочтения.
20 страниц и я была в восторге, казалось бы - такой сюжет, абсолютно непредсказуемый ход событий, сложные персонажи и невероятный стиль.
Но "Четвёртый ледниковый период" так и остался для меня загадкой.
Ни одна мысль, которую Кобо пытался донести до читателя, не лежала на поверхности.
This is a cruel book, cruel because Abe is deliberately using this narrative to force you to have a dialogue with yourself about the cruelty of the future, and anguish and pain are deliberate effects he wants to elicit in you.This is a terrific and mind-bending book. It isn't difficult to read; I found myself binging it in chunks. It may seem redundant to say that a book by Abe is weird, but it's true--he makes you realize the abnormal in that which is closest to you.
Dr. Katsumi tries to build an AI that can predict the future. The government tries to stop him, forcing him to test his project on single person, who is then mysteriously murdered, revealing to Dr. Katsumi a huge conspiracy connected to genetic engineering. As he get closer to his objective, the government begins putting up obstacles to slow his progress.The usual brilliance from Abe, perhaps the best science fiction/fantasist of his day.
I liked the idea, but I think the translation that I read could use an update (there probably is one). It's got that stilted language, sort of hyper-enthusiastic feeling many '70s sci-fi translators gave to foreign works.
Professor Katsumi is drawn into a secret project to transform the human race in anticipation of the effects of massive climate change. This novel is an attempt to discuss the moral issues involved and is meant to be thought provoking.
I liked this, but it did seem a little like some of Abe’s other books. Maybe I would have liked it more if I’d read it first, and I’m not sure which was written first, but it seems a little repetitive in view of those. It’s still worth reading though.
Напомнило "Войну с Саламандрами"...идея подводного мира - то, что японцев частенько интересует с учетом их национальной фобии. Первая половина книги - это детектив, а вторая половина - утопия.
End is unfinished unfortunately. SPOILERWhat about the teacher's faith? Will he die, or not? And what about his wife?SPOILERI have serious questions to answer.
A frustrating novel, where events happen far away (in time and space) from the protagonist, who drifts through the story and feels like some different essays were stitched together. Points for speculating on the effects of anthropogenic climate change, genetic manipulation and computed-aided forecasting decades before they became well-known and commonplace.
Katsumi narrates the facts as they are presented to him, so in one sense the storytelling is linear.
The story of what the machine predicts and what Katsumi's colleagues do to save humanity is the strangest part and learning about it backwards makes it more surreal.
Often when reading a PoMo book, I get the feeling that the author is showing off more than s/he's trying to tell a story.
However, Abe uses PoMo techniques subtly and to great effect, enhancing the strangeness of the story he has to tell.
Then again, the author's purpose in writing it was not to inspire joy:"Yet I shall have fulfilled one of the purposes of this novel if I have been able to make the reader confront the cruelty of the future, produce within him anguish and strain, and bring about a dialogue with himself."Alas, if I had only read this before beginning, I might not have bothered to start!
The only reason I am not fraught with "anguish and strain" upon reading it is because of my extensive Buddhist training and meditation practice: there is no cruel future to fear or past to rue; there is only the present moment.
Should or should we not predict the future and if we do - should we change/preserve the present in order to have the future we want?
Dale Saunders) starts from the premise that the irresponsible human race causes world-scale catastrophes and can only be saved by re-engineering the human species to integrate with Mother Nature.
As with most of Kobo Abe's writings, Inter Ice Age 4 raises numerous though-provoking questions: What is the moral status of abortion?
Should we abort the whole human race for another, potentially better species?
Unfortunately, the writing is by far not Kobo Abe's best, the questions are too many and too profound to be sufficiently explored in the course of a single book (and this in particular), and the storyline is difficult to follow and also includes too many trite parts.
But this tendency to look at the past through the lens of the present's obsessions plays a very nice parallel to Abe's primary intentions for the novel.Really, Inter Ice Age 4 has little to do with human influence on the planet and much to do with human influence on humanity: a more prescient element for today's reader that Abe does make explicit might be the notion that we're beginning to write our own evolution, although as Abe admits in an enlightening postscript, "You reader are plagued by myriad doubts.
i've read four books by kobo abe so far, and i have to say this is the first time i was disappointed - i didn't love woman in the dunes, but i wasn't disappointed per se.
i think i've just come to expect a bit more wisdom than 'handing the progress of human evolution over to a supra-national corporation will rob us of our souls'.
still a fun book and quick read, but i think i was waiting around for that turn of literary genius that i found in each of his other novels, and it just wasn't there.
Inter Ice Age 4 starts with an interesting enough premise: several world nations have developed a computer technology that can, given enough input, predict the future.
Various of the nations respond in different ways - the USSR computer MOSCOW II is under sanctions because it predicted a communist world government.
In Japan, a government subcommittee demands that their researchers stay away from asking their computer anything with political applications.That's the first premise.
Things get weird when  Kobo Abe tries to connect this story to another one about a future where the majority of the planet is under water and humans have been genetically engineered to live out their lives in the ocean.
I have read and liked many of Abe's novels.
Strangeness piles up in them and as his characters try to make sense of these strangenesses, the reader is usually treated to the feeling that there is no making sense of the Abe's worlds, that logic has been hijacked by bureaucracy.This story, though, tried to make the reader understand where it was coming from.
Because where it was coming from was a little dull, made duller as it was told in great swaths of exposition.Abe is no stylist.
So all the reader has is the story and its convolutions, its mysteries, its magics.
According to Wikipedia, this book was published in Japan in 1959, before Women in the Dunes.
It has a strangely pertinent plot.
Melting polar ice caps are causing the sea level to rise at an alarming rate, which for Japan is a major problem.
So a secret group is genetically engineering aborted fetuses to grow gills and live underwater.
It is a strange book that also includes a super-computer and the communism/capitalism conflict as well.
I don't think it's in print and I bought it on amazon.com's used books.
If you can find it and like science fiction then its worth getting.

