https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74725.Jubilee_Trail
I thought this book was going to be like many of my grandmother's old books: a cheesy romance novel from the first half of the last century.
I'm not sure exactly when this book was written (my old copy has no date!) but it seemed that a lot of the themes were probably pretty scandalous at the time.
In any case, I really loved this book more than I expected to, and would recommend it to anyone, especially if you liked Isabelle Allende's book "Daughter of Fortune." Also, if you watched "Deadwood" at all, you'd probably recognize a few characters.
Within a short time they were married, for better or for worse.I really don't think anyone could read this book and not like Garnet; she was sweet at the same time as having the strength to do what needed to be done, no matter how hard it was.
I felt all her emotions, the strangeness of a new county, the hot, dusty Jubilee Trail that seemed to have no end and the first time Garnet truly felt fear.
It helped that Garnet had mysterious Florinda, who's rough upbringing prepared her for life early on, and it helped that The Handsome Brute was so jolly and of course she had Oliver and his right hand John.
One of the first adult historical fiction books I ever read, and a book that still fascinates me.
Jubilee Trail is the best of her books, centered around the two-tiered society of California as it was just before the Gold Rush, where proud Spanish rancheros existed side by side with Yankee traders and Mexican citizens.
Garnet's best friend Florinda, a beautiful showgirl fleeing murder charges and perhaps something even more sinister, steals the show on every page she appears.
And how nice to read a historical fiction book that doesn't end with a marriage, as is traditional, but rather begins with one.
Oliver is a trader on the trail between Santa Fe and Los Angeles (then a backwater village); he's full of incredible stories and is willing to talk to Garnet like a human being instead of a china doll.
He is so annoyingly stubborn, especially about a certain emotion he claims is "moonshine." (view spoiler)[It was obvious he loved Garnet, he just didn't know it and I think she should have told him so in the first place, avoiding heartbreak.
I wasn't expecting his story to go in that direction but I just loved him for everything he did for Garnet.
(view spoiler)[Do you think he was in love with Florinda?
I loved Florinda and found her complex, lacking and wonderful all at the same time.
The rocks and mountains did not fail you because they could not; even the desert was cruel by its own honest laws.
Only people did this.John reminded her of the desert: he offered nothing, but then suddenly he was like a rock guarding a spring.
It was a matter of self defense.Next time my bishop asks me to give a talk in church, I'm going to steal one of Florinda's lines and say, "Hell on toast, I'd love to," and see how it goes over.
This is the story of just out of finishing school Garnet, who meets and falls in love with Oliver Hale while he's visiting New York from California.
Garnet has an adventurous spirit that Oliver indulges and they're off to California via the Jubilee Trail.
Along the way they meet up with Florinda, the "bad" woman with a heart of gold and Garnet and Florinda become great friends, and support each other during the good and bad times as they cross the country and come to California before it is governed by the US.
This is horrible, horrible, horrible!
This book pretty much lost me when they helped their friend escape from the hotel in New Orleans.
Let me suspend any intelligence I might have and just believe that their plan might have worked.
And on the trail to what was it - Arizona??
No Indian attacks along the way?
No problems dealing with, hmmmm, womanly issues on the trail?
She doesn't get pregnant?
It was UNrealistic every step of the incredibly long way.
I gave up before GARNET ever arrived to CA.
Maybe it got better after that, but it didn't start off too promising and was not worth my time.
Even as I read the book I was thinking to myself, “Hell for breakfast, I have read 50 pages and nothing pretty much has happened.” But for some reason it wasn’t agonizing that nothing happened.
I just look back and think, “Huh, I really can’t figure out what filled all those pages.” So, if you are in the mood for an epic novel that vaguely (and probably inaccurately) chronicles early southern California, READ THIS BOOK!
If you are in the mood for a short story and this is the only book you can find, well, hell for breakfast!
This turned out to be quite an adventure, and very much an improvement on most of the historical fiction/romance being churned out to day about the American West. The characters are not dull at all, the descriptions vivid, and the history great fun to read without being boring. Those looking for the over-the-top sex should look elsewhere; this book doesn't need such cheap tricks to keep it moving. Very much recommended.For the longer review, please go here:http://www.epinions.com/review/Gwen_B...
It took me 3 1/2 months to read this, but what a journey. Loved, loved, loved this book!!!!!
This book I especially loved because it takes place at the time when California became a state; so the history is really interesting.
Bristow has succeeded in writing a masterful tale about perseverance and hard work and love and redemption.
They were rude filthy sweating men who kept going till they got where they wanted to go."Independent love, p 503:"I need you.
You won't have to be told a dozen times a day that you're wanted and appreciated."Hard Work, p 543:The Spanish conquistadores.
The only right and proper way for them to get gold was to murder the people who had already worked for it and to steal what they had.
Once I got a little ways into the book and was used to the writing style it didn't feel cheesy anymore.
I did not have a lot of time to read when I started this book.
I was reading little snippets during my son's basketball games every time they called a timeout and at the quarter and half.
Any time I could squeeze in some reading I did until yesterday when I just blazed through the last 200 pages.
She certainly could have as the story had a good ending that did not leave you hanging but, the characters were still young and off to face another adventure.
Fantastic!
And of course Bristow had also.Her books (I have read three her novels) are rich with historical facts but in the way that you don't feel overwhelmed.
Through them she described many other women and men.I think, that what she did the best are male characters (especially those who are in closer relationship with a main heroine in some point of the story).
Reading this book I was completly immersed in those times and with the story.
Each of them had his own place in the story and in the life of heroine.I love when a book makes own mark in my heart / soul which stays with me for a long time."Life let you have what you wanted.
This is a great book about the settlement of California, from the eyes of a young woman raised in New York society.
Longing for adventure, Garnet marries a man she barely knows, wooed by his stories of magical California, a land that isn't even on the map yet.
But the path to California is hard, and Garnet encounters many unpleasant surprises, in the way of bandits, hostile natives, even more hostile in-laws, and a husband who is nothing like the charming man who courted her.
It definitely gives you the feeling of what it was like at that time with the sparseness of California, the roughness of living on the trail and the political flavor of the times.
I think Gwen Bristow set this one up for the next book so I'm pretty sure I will check out Calico Palace one of these days.Edit: I see that Calico Palace continues where Jubilee Trail leaves off in history but not in characters.
I am sad to see these characters go, I was thinking I would meet them again in this next one.
It was written in the 1950's and it is quite obvious from the writing style, but I found that it added to the charm.
The character's were beautifully written with so many layers, and I found myself in love with so many of them.
There were so many individual and deeply personal stories interwoven in this book that will stay with me for a lifetime.
I LOVED this book, but those who know me have claimed I like prairie books, ha!*Another highlight for me was the way the author portrayed Mormon's as likeable, hardworking, loyal, spritual, obedient, helpful, happy, chivalrous individuals.
While there were plenty of acceptable stopping points that Gwen Bristow could have used to end her book, I found delicious satisfaction in having plenty more pages to turn; she never lost my interest.
The last 50 pages of the book taunted me.
For once in a while, I actually felt I was reading a REAL NOVEL.
It was not some sloppy love novel with graphic scenes to target my hormones, but was rich with characters who were faulted and yet good, and my heart ached with understanding.I did finish the book late after work one night and am now content!
After I read These Is My Words (and the two books that followed) I went looking for more books by Nancy E.
So onto the shelf it went for someday when I didn't have a book in front of me that I HAD to read right then.
Ms. Turner said, "Jubilee Trail is a classic Western, a lush romance, an action adventure, and a survivor story, told with 1950s sensibilities." I had to know what she meant by that.
I did not have a lot of time to read when I started this book.
I loved traveling across the Jubilee Trail (and farther) with these characters, and was so sorry to see the book end!
It's definitely one I will read again and give as gifts.
I already gifted it to a friend in the last two days!
It was a matter of self defense.""How few men there were whose friends could speak of them with such unquestioning certainty.
But then we love it, because that the school that taught us all we know, and gave us all the strength we have."
Life was not a lot of golden adventures that cost you nothing." I read this book once quite awhile ago and liked it, but now I read it with new eyes and I see much more.
Life isn't all rainbows and fairies, but it can be very, very good and sometimes it is good because (not just despite) the trials because you become something better than you were before.Bristow is also very good at writing historical fiction that really brings to life the era.
She was obviously a very well liked and well read author in her time (this book was even made into a movie) and I think the books deserve to still be read.
My dear friend lent me this book.
The story builds and then slows a little and then out of nowhere it punches you in the face with a plot twist that you never expected.
Once I became emotionally invested in the characters - who, in completely different ways are rich, complex, and therefore, endearing - I couldn't stop reading.
And to top it all, I came away from this story, truly wishing these characters really existed.
Horrid, nasty piece of work.And if John Ives could read this, he'd cringe as he read these words: I loved this book and am so grateful to my friend, Sarah for lending it to me.

It is not graphic in text, though, so don't look for a lot of historical accuracy, in terms of the graphic nature of living in the west at the time, but it does include wonderful description and some historical details.The plot is fairly predictable, though there were a couple avenues I expected the author to take, regarding Garnet's relationship with other characters that she did not take - much to my pleasant surprise.
It is important to keep in mind this is a romance - and a well written one.
I'd recommend this book as an enjoyable read, but I'd recommend Celia Garth first.
Then one day she meets Oliver, a trader from a place she'd never heard of called California, and she's smitten.
So the book is about her adventures on the trail to California and those she has once she gets there.
It was rather slow going at first but I've read this author before and like her so I stayed with it and was glad I did as the story got better and better.
One thing I really enjoyed was hearing about people going over the trail to California by the southern route.
I've read a lot about the Oregon trail but never about this one.
It's really a coming-of-age story, as Garnet slowly realizes that her husband is not perfect, that even "soiled doves" can be good people, and that her true soul mate just might be a man who doesn't believe in love.While I really enjoyed this book, it definitely has its weaknesses.
Bristow wrote Jubilee Trail in the 50s, and at times it seems a bit dated in terms of phrasing and childish plot.Overall, this is the quintessential westward expansion novel, and I enjoyed reading it very much.
On a side note, I've been wanting to see the film adaptation, but every time it comes on TCM, I seem to miss it!
The lengthy telling provided fascinating insights to pioneer life on the Jubilee Trail and emotionally connected the reader to the characters in a very vivid way.
I felt all of Garnet's emotions as my own- my heart ached with her, I felt disappointment, grief, fear, her wonder at the beauteous landscapes, her yearning, and her jubilation and thrill.The unlikely friendship that forms between Garnet and Florinda is beautiful in its unconditional acceptance and devotion.
And the support group that Garnet musters in the remote wilds of the American continent is heartwarming.This is often an emotionally-wrenching novel, but extremely satisfying in its own beautiful and inspiring way.
Awesome book. The Jubilee Trail is the passageway to the west in the 1840’s. It takes you from the U.S that ends in Independence, Missouri thru the Mexican territories to Santa Fe. Then on to California. It is a pioneering story of a newly married couple along with other companions that leads to new adventures in the foreign lands of California. It leads up to how California became a state. Pretty fascinating.
What an enjoyable read. Even though it is an oldie it was an intriguing story. Not as good as Forever Amber or Gone with the Wind but definitely a good one. So glad I read this.
Garnet, a New York socialite meets and marries a western trader/ranchero and travels with him on the Santa Fe Trail to California.
She meets a showgirl on their stopover in New Orleans and fate intervenes so that they travel the trail together and in the interim become fast friends.
Once in California other issues arise and Garnet has to find her own way and navigate her own path protecting her loved ones, making fast and furious, if somewhat unlikely friends and growing into a strong and determined young woman unwilling to settle for less than her highest dreams call for.
