https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50548.Hudson_River_Bracketed
Ils sont avant tout profondément humains et, même si certains de leurs défauts auraient pu me les rendre antipathiques, c'est avec un sourire au lèvre que je pense à Halo et Vance.Si je pouvais rapprocher ce roman à un grand classique de la littérature américaine cela serait à Martin Eden de Jack London.
Les passages de ce roman, où Edith Wharton aborde les processus d'écriture et la survenue de l'inspiration sont très intéressants.
But he had read of it in verse and prose; he talked of it with vivacity and emotion; he knew the attitude to strike...while the others gazed, saying 'The poets have sung us, as you know...'"As for Heloise's brother Lorry who sat extended in the hollow of a canvas chair, his handsome contemptuous head tilted back, and his feet on the verandah rail, Lorry, the fool, could see the view when he chose, and out of sheer perversity and posing, wouldn't -- and that was worst of all, to his sister's thinking.
While there are moments in this longest of Wharton's novels that show off her genius and her fine eye for the intricacies of social custom, they are too few and far-between.
There are some fun moments of social satire throughout the text, aimed at the fascination with everything new, the momentary nature of fads in advertising and the arts; but the one character that Wharton should be satirical about (or, at least, subtly ironic), her protagonist, is too often treated seriously.
This characteristic of the novel was so painful to me that this is one of the few works by Wharton that I was tempted (several times) to give up reading.
Vance is an innocent abroad in New York, where his first published work is hugely successful, setting him up, of course, for a fall., While Vance's career struggles are important In the story, his relationships with other characters are just as important and, for me, the best part of the book.
His wife, Laura Lou, whom he marries in haste and regrets at leisure, is a lovely but limited girl.
In addition to wondering how the story would end, I was fascinated with these people as well as with other important and minor characters, all of which were well drawn.
I surely do love most of Edith Wharton's novels and pretty much all of her short stories, but I have to say that Hudson River Bracketed just kind of fell flat for me.
This is not so much the social commentary that most readers have come to expect from a Wharton novel, but revolves around literary creativity.
After reading this novel I had to wonder if the book was some form of cathartic process that Wharton put herself through in an effort to fan the flames of her own creative genius.
I own it in hardcover, and I'm glad I've read it--Edith Wharton wrote it after all.
The artist late in life [Wharton] writing about the developing artist [Vance]in his youth.Often self-indulgent, often compelling; here is a look inside the mind and soul of Wharton.
So different from her major works but so revealing about the depth of the agony of a writing talent [is it genius?] with the many attendant frustrations and demons.Brash, naive and pitiable Vance; why do we urge him on in our own minds?
One of my favorite images is Halo's perspective of looking out from her apartment onto, the until recently 'neglected' view of the East River [paraphrase].
Wharton obviously wants to make Weston sympathetic, yet she can't help but show how his thoughtless egotism affects the people around him, especially the women (several of whom are excellently done characters in their own right).
What I did like a lot was Wharton's depiction of the writing life, of its frustrations and inspirations.
There's a particularly good passage near the end in which Weston sees through a window the fully laden branch of an apple tree, and the sight inspires him: "this mute swinging wide of the secret doors...that flash of mysterious light." It's just a pity that the intriguing core of the book is so often hidden by its much less intriguing plot.
Incredible characters depicted in such a way I bought a few others books by the talented Wharton and I can't wait to read them. Meeting Halo and Vance was quite incredible and I was surprised by their unexpected evolution throughout the book. Halo pleased me instantly and then deceived me often by not being herself until the end. I must repeat it: Wharton is a great storyteller but a better society describer and even a better human reactions depicter.
I think this is one of her best. She really is the American Jane Austen! The title refers to an architectural style and also to life itself. One of the central characters is an old house and how its existence affects entire families and relationships. Missed chances and how creativity is nurtured or impeded all are themes explored in this book. Another Wharton book that could be a movie.
It doesn't quite rise to the level of "The House of Mirth" or "The Age of Innocence," but it's still a wonderful, absorbing read. Even Wharton's minor works are a feast for the mind and the imagination.
Il y a des longueurs et des faiblesses dans ce roman, mais les passages sur l'écriture et l'inspiration sont superbes, malgré un héros apprenti écrivain pas très sympathique... La fin m'a laissé le coeur si serré !
LOVED IT!
If you love Edith Wharton, then by all means, DO NOT READ THIS BOOK.
