https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1003604.Pilgrim_s_Rest
She is about to take a position as a housekeeper in the village Frank grew up in as she has in her care, her young orphaned niece and it is not easy to find a job that will accommodate a 4 year old child.Frank doesn’t want her to go to the house known as Pilgrim’s Rest because there have been some strange things happen there over the previous 3 years and he doesn’t want Judy and Penny exposed to possible danger.Frank’s boyhood friend Roger Pilgrim goes to see Miss Silver because he is convinced that someone is trying to kill him.
Miss Silver ventures off to Pilgrim's Rest for a visit as “an old school acquaintance” of one of the two maiden aunts who live there.And what a story it is that takes off from there!
I'm 10 books into the series... and still enjoying them.
Wentworth really does have a line on very horrible women. Fortunately she balances it with a wide variety of other women - indeed, since a large portion of the men in this particular novel get killed out, we end up with a large majority of women in the story.
I noticed in this book that Miss Silver makes her appearance quite early in the story and her presence is there throughout, unlike some of the other books I picked up.
She makes little suggestions to others around her, getting them on the right path again, but does little else.
She may have figure out the murder by page 10 for all I know, but keeps the knowledge to herself and lets the other run around in circles trying to figure things out.Not only that, the (view spoiler)[murderer gets away!
(hide spoiler)] in this story.
It dragged and there was no one to dislike, simply didn't have the emotional pull for me. However the subject matter would have been quite shocking at the time so it's more a case of not having aged well. What knocked it down a star was And Suddenly Dragons style of the deaths.
Pilgrim's Rest (Miss Silver #10), Patricia Wentworth
This is ostensibly a Miss Silver mystery but she seems like a secondary character, and there doesn't seem like there's any real main character.
But you didn't get to see Miss Silver's POV either and she was constantly running around doing stuff that the viewer didn't get to see until her dramatic reveals.
Sometimes the plot was very predictable but it wasn't bad.The ending was weird, but interesting, for sure - not quite the resolution I expected.
I liked a lot of the characters and the environment.
I liked the actual mystery, the set-up.Overall, it was enjoyable, but had some big flaws.
Very easy to read and quite entertaining.Miss Silver beats the professionals to the solution of the murders and disappearances connected with the "cursed" old house, "Pilgrim's Rest".The culprit was not difficult to spot and the ending very melodramatic and morally ambivalent.The incompetence of Superintendent March would lead me to conclude that his promotion to Chief Constable was not far off!
I really got involved with the characters and the setting of this Miss Silver mystery. Miss Silver makes some appearances in this story, but the mystery and characters dominate. I think I had a sense of who the murderer was. Still, the ending was a surprise. Recommending.
More of the cozies. I a, transported back to fifth grade and the Nancy Drew binges.
This one was a real page turner. It kept me guessing what was really going on in the Pilgrims' household until very near the end. It was fun to have two of Miss Silver's favorite cops on the case and for one of them (Randall March) to doubt her theory of the crimes. Even so, she confronts her suspect in so shocking a way that it throws both of the cops as well as the suspect off balance.
She joins the party at Pilgrim's Rest, which includes two elderly aunts, a cousin who got bashed up in the war, his nurse, a butler and his wife, and now Judy and Penny.
As more people get murdered and secrets come to light, will Miss Silver save the day?Another entertaining mystery with the coughing and knitting Miss Silver, who thankfully is not infalliable--she does lose some clients now and then, though that's mostly because they don't follow her excellent advice.
Those who don't follow her advice--or her intuitions--include the local superintendent, who was once a pupil of Miss Silver.
I've read several of Patricia Wentworth's books....all good.
Very good writing, interesting characters.
Both ladies can read between the lines and see what the Inspectors miss.
Here is a good description of a murderer taken from Chapter 29 of this book: "The murderer does not walk an easy path.
He must not only glove the bare skin lest it leave the mark of his guilty sweat -- he must hood his thoughts and heed his tongue, he must mask his eyes from being the mirror of his mind, and walk the naked edge of danger easily." You can read the rest on page 156.
Another highly entertaining Miss Silver mystery. I love how some of the characters are beginning to become more fully developed -- can't wait to see where she takes them later in the series!!
I was very pleased that Judy keeps her head when she's in danger and saves herself through her own wit and courage, and I also liked that she knew that Frank was not going to be right for her, even if her moral outrage at police work stems from classism as seems likely.Finally, I liked that Lona Day was not given an entirely clear reason for her long-term behaviour -- yes, the first murder was thwarted narcissistic love, but after that, while she thinks she was behaving rationally in killing the various Pilgrim men to try to keep the police out of the cellars, it is clear that she didn't have a long-term ambition -- or if she did, she didn't share it with Judy.
But it was murder, Randall.
Roger Pilgrim was murdered." There was one of those silences which are not noticed because thought talks so loudly.
The voice of blood calling from the earth must always be a dreadful voice, and one before which all others fall to silence.
Randall March broke this one, his voice dry and official as he said, "What proof have you that it was murder?">I like this description of Detective Sargeant Frank Abbott ...an elegant young man with a rather blase manner.
He was still elegant - slim and tall, with very fair hair slicked back and mirror-smooth, and light blue eyes which had appeared to contemplate his fellow-beings with supercilious amusement...
I had not previously read a Wentworth book and she has written a lot so I thought I would try one. This one was randomly picked and it was better than I expected. I'll try another one. The series features an older lady who has a habit of coughing before almost any pronouncement. She seems to have been inspired by Miss Marple. Based on this book she intuits who the villain is and then suggests lines of investigation to pursue to prove her intuition correct. The story moved along quickly with a few surprises and was mostly plausible throughout.
Four stars because I could not figure out who the main character was. Aside from that this was a very lovely mystery which included both of Miss Silver's detectives: Frank Abbot and Randal Marsh. It is very much a novel of time and place. Air raids, rationing, getting called up (regardless of gender) and, of course, the waking wounded.
Several major plot points get left hanging unresolved (who WAS the first victim planning to marry?) and the primary mystery only gets resolved because an otherwise-intelligent character suddenly decides to act like an idiot.
WKKPL | The earlier Miss Silver books are definitely better. Readers familiar with this style of cozy will still spot the murderer practically the moment they're introduced, but the plot has much more meat to it than later installments.
Much better than her earlier works. I think I fell for every "red herring."
possibly also known as Pilgrim's Rest
(2.5) the perpetrator of the crimes is a psychopath … I think that aspect ruined the story for me
The murderer was easy to spot in this one but as always with Miss Silver, a very entertaining read.
Thought this one was better than average - the plot was more interesting, and Miss Silver was on the scene earlier than in the previous book in the series (which I could not get through and did not review).
The story takes place around Pilgrim's Rest, an old house in England, towards the end of World War 2.
There have been several attempts on the owner's life, just after he announces his plans to sell.
And his father, the previous owner, had died - accidentally - after making his own announcement he was going to sell.
Who has reason to prevent the sale of the house?
In addition to Roger and the stout gardener Miss Columba, the Pilgrim’s Rest residents consist of Columba’s tiresome, sickly sister, Janetta; hired help Judy Elliot and her orphaned niece, Penny; Mrs. Robbins, the cook; Mr. Robbins, the butler; Jerome Pilgrim, Roger’s cousin who’s been injured in the War; and Jerome’s nurse, Lona Day. Shortly after Miss Silver arrives, she is shown a fateful curse which adorns the fireplace.
I am quite fond of Miss Marple.
Miss Silver reminds me of her: an older woman that is incredibly smart and had an incredible insight on people.
I completely enjoyed her taking down the condescending inspector.A rather new police officer runs into a woman he had a crush on.
She is taking a position in a house he has concerns about.
The home includes two aged aunts, a nerve damaged war veteran, a nurse, and a couple that have served as caretakers for 30 years.
Of course, there is a mysterious disappearance of an older brother, and a sudden spat of accidents/murders.
I particularly enjoy how the relationship between Maud Silver and the Scotland Yard man, Frank Abbot continues to develop.Recently I viewed new presentations of a couple of Miss Marple stories on PBS Masterpiece Mystery and do think there are some similarities between Miss Marple and Miss Silver.
It has been many years since I read the Agatha Christie mysteries, but I am finding that I really like Miss Silver, as a personality, better, and I think she is much more clever and subtle and not so doddering.
I wonder why PBS has not done these mysteries, and if they did, who would they get to play Miss Maud Silver.
Country manor Pilgrim's Rest has had a quick succession of new owners.
An old Pilgrim family curse says that every owner who attempts to sell Pilgrim's Rest will die, and indeed it is happening.
And each new slice of death duties makes it that much more necessary to sell the house.
Miss Silver arrives in an established collection of family members with military injuries and other damaged skeletons.
A very clever murderer is at work, so much so that the only way Wentworth could prove the miscreant's identity is to provide an unexpected eyewitness.
Miss Silver is an unusual English heroine, a former governess turned private inquiry agent, with a strong sense of justice, genuine kindness and usually a knitting project underway. She stars in old-fashioned, cozy mysteries where right prevails and the heroine and hero are happily sorted out by the last page. The old house at Pilgrim’s Rest is too expensive and impractical to keep up, but every heir who has tried to sell it has had a fatal accident. Add in a mysterious disappearance, and even Miss Silver has her hands full.
