https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174879.On_Becoming_a_Person
He incorporates a gamut of psychological principles from areas such as developmental and social psychology, and he relates them all back to his thesis on clinical, humanistic therapy.Not only does Rogers reach out to different branches of psychology, but he also connects client-centered therapy to education, leadership in the work place, and family life.
As Rogers would say, reading On Becoming a Person will not transform you into a perfect version of yourself - rather, it will set you on the path of creating a more accepting and honest self.
...I have learned to become more adequate in listening to myself; so that I know...what I am feeling at any given momentOne way of putting this is that I feel I have become more adequate in letting myself be what I am....The curious paradox is that when I accept myself as I am, then I change."3.
I have found that truly to accept another person and his feelings is by no means an easy thing, any more than is understanding.
I know little of psychology and its various approaches and perspectives but I intuitively felt that Roger was at the time the book was written, revolutionary, bringing forward into the light a new way of regarding clients of psychotherapy.
What was said often seemed to be mere common sense and yet, I found my views regarding my own feelings, my own fears and my own mistakes to be changing.
I feel that for a short after reading this book my own, my way of viewing the world, my perceptions of what is and was were somehow changed in such a way that to me seemed progressive and positive.
Picked this one up for a course I was taking in college- Personal Development.It turned out to be one of the best psychology-related books I have ever read.
Since this process was from the point of view of Carl Rogers himself as a therapist, I felt I was able to discern how we develop as a person using relationships.I felt like I was given more insight into how people change from this book than from any other piece of literature, honestly.Read this if you are interested in psychology, and want to get greater insight into the backbone of the Humanist movement!
this is an extremely valuable book for all "thinking humans" to read. It really helped me begin to understand myself, and it gave me insights that allowed me to eventually discover what makes me happy, what motivates me, what I truly need to AVOID in life (becuase I'm just not wired to deal with it) and in general it gives you a framework for finding your inner self.
If anyone wants to know Rogers' theoretical framework, I can explain it to you in 5 minutes and spare you the grief of reading this long, redundant book. It was somewhat interesting, but too repetitive.
'To be the self, one truly is ' is the core thesis of this book.
For realising our true self, the need is to free ourselves from all the facades : pleasing others, trying to be good etc.
We can then begin by accepting our real feeling.
With it, comes the beginning of trusting ourself.
It means that we listen to the other person without evaluation, judgements and negative attitudes.
We listen to help the individual explore his self.
the students are allowed to say what they really experience, while Rogers engages in deep listening.
As a psychology major in college, it is somewhat inevitable that some classes will concern themselves with therapy and therapy techniques, regardless of whether or not an individual wants to become a therapist, and this was where I first encountered the book.
So much so that I picked it up and continued reading it after we were done with it in class.
Carl Rogers' work was, and is, influential in the field and I recommend this read for anybody who is interested in the field of psychology or gaining more insight into themselves and others.
Read it many years ago, and his simple, trusting view that we humans need witness and listening, and that will go a long way toward enabling the person to find their own answers within themselves.At the time my husband was a Rogerian counselor.
(In my 2nd summer, my weekend group "kidnapped" Dr. Rogers, set him in a raised chair in the big hall (all 70 participants) and bowed down to him.He said "If you meet the Buddha on the road, kill him.
I am uncomfortable being raised above the rest of you; it is not what I believe."When we told him we had been randomly kidnapping and elevating EVERYBODY in the larger group, he relaxed and had a good time.
This book is quite possibly the best book that I have read as a part of my graduate school experience thus far.
This is the third theory book that I have read (Skinner, Jung) and Rogers is the most easy to get along with and understand.
Rogers is humble, and every step of the way takes you along his journey to how he developed person centered therapy.
At no point does he insist that his theory is the right one, or the only, but he says that his theory is what he has developed from his own experiences.
I would definitely recommend!!
Holy crap. This book just changed my life. I'm going to have to think about how to write a review for it.
This book was a pleasure to read. Reading Rogers helps me whenever I lose faith in the efficacy of long term psychotherapy. It is so important when practicing to get over your own worries and anxieties in order to be truly responsive to your patient. Through his anecdotes, teachings, and overall philosophy, I have been able to make major breakthroughs in my own comfort sitting with my patients.
N-ai făcut nimic altceva decât să eliberezi fiara?” La asta, răspunsul cel mai adecvat pare a fi: „În terapie, individul a devenit de fapt un organism uman, cu toată bogăția pe care o presupune acest lucru.
Atunci când accept cu adevărat toate aceste atitudini ca pe o realitate, ca pe o parte din mine, relația mea cu cealaltă persoană devine ceea ce este și poate să crească și să se schimbe mai ușor.A-mi da voie să înțeleg o altă persoană are o valoare imensă.
Came at the right moment—Bought this book about a year ago, but never got around to reading it.
I also found his dynamic concept of process—as opposed to fixed states of happiness, nirvana, and contentment—fascinating, especially since I'd just read about dynamic inequality in Taleb's new book and since it shed new light on many aspects of Buddhism (e.g., "enlightenment" as a fixed state might not exist, and its dynamic nature is captured by the metaphor of the path, which doesn't necessarily have to have a destination; non-Self as the dissolution of an imposed self, a fixed self, etc.).Highly recommended.
It's amazing how this 40+ year old book still has relevance today.Rogers provides clear reasoning and sound arguments for his beliefs, though this reader walked away wondering if Rogers believed that one can only become a person through therapy.
I would love someone to take the gist of Rogers' thinking and apply this to the bulk of the population.Warning: the eBook version contains numerous typos, some of which are quite disconcerting.
Whoever converted this old text to the Kindle format should be be admonished for their sloppy work.
I would have rated the book lower because of these errors, but felt to do so was unfair to the author.
While Carl Rogers work is foundational to the field of counseling, I did not enjoy his writing. I read about half of this book, and much of the content was incorporated in the many textbooks I read in grad school. I decided to put my time into more current research in the field.
This was the first book I read by Carl Rogers.
I believe that humans are capable of great beauty and great ugliness.
Something else I loved about this book was his discussion of the universal human desire to "know their truest selves;" to be in touch with who we genuinely are at our deepest point.
This very search has been a preoccupation of mine for quite some time so i liked that i was reading a book by an author that was equally interested in this search.
I am still looking forward to reading some of Rogers more personal works.
A beautifully written book written so the layman can understand and apply...simply life changing and brought me to tears in many places.
I read the version with his own intro, a 'to the reader' and 'this is me' section which moved me.
I just wish a lot of the more modern psychotherapy/psychology authors would put their writings in the simple to understand and accessible way that Rogers did.
This is one of those books where you read a page and have to then put the book down to ponder and absorb.
Rogers humility and warmth comes across in droves.
This book is as beautiful as the person who wrote it. It is wonderful how Roger's never gave importance to techniques but rather the process of psychotherapy. And I can connect to it.This book is written straight from the hard and though the length requires lot of patience, it is well worth the effort. The approach of the therapist is vital to therapy and the philosophy of this book is not restricted to therapists alone, but can be easily practiced in everyday relationships.
There are two categories of people: Those who know what's up and those who don't.Carl Rogers knew what's up. I don't know how rare it is for someone to possess the kind of humanistic insight Rogers had, but I do know it's very rare for such a person to apply that kind of insight to his writing and his field. The influence Rogers had on client-centered therapy is huge, yet I had never heard of the man until my third year in college. . .why?
Everyone has long loved Carl. For him, it's all about being authentic. Not living in bad faith. You can give yourself your own authenticity score just by honestly answering for yourself a couple of questions: 1. What do you care most deeply about?2. Given your everyday life, how much of it is dedicated to what you care most deeply about?Authentic living consists of congruence between caring and living.
As a non therapist yet interested individual in personal growth, On Becoming a Person inspired me. It's actually a good read even though I expected it to be more of a technical read. Rogers writes in a similar way to his approach to therapy. It reeds warm and inclusive.
"I trust that it is also evident that the whole emphasis is on process, not upon end states of being. I am suggesting that it is by choosing to value certain qualitative elements of the process of becoming, that we can find a pathway to the open society."Hurrah!
Toward the end of authenticity, the author astutely presents the case for accepting ourselves and accepting others as a prerequisite for healthy relationships.
This book is a great tool for a new therapist to: 1. Understand him/herself at a deeper level, 2. Help gain clients' perspective of therapy.Carl Rogers rocks!!!
Great book, I think I will be reading this book forever. Brilliantly painted conceptual work making the abstract tangible.
one of the most important reads of my life. Highly recommended for those who are tracking certain progressions and their own maturity.
There is the occasional itemization of actions and consequences, but it is soon followed with more explaining that makes vague what first seemed tangible.I will attempt to list and analyze, in the most direct manner, the things I feel Rogers has expressed in one way or another, no doubt missing certain concepts either by fault of memory or understanding.In no particular order:a) Man is ultimately capable of constructive self-direction.This is an area of criticism when it comes to the mental acuity and disorder concerning the person in question.b) Attempts of any outside individual to guide or define experience for another will always limit the receiving person from experiencing and understanding themselves.This makes some sense as reaching in to offer someone answers to their experiences or even something they're learning often handicaps them.
Not for me at this stage of the game, perhaps I will reread this later
Yesterday was Father’s Day. I listened to numerous people vent to me about how the holiday was a sorry excuse for a family gathering: siblings who no longer talk (no, who actually strongly dislike each other) came together and awkwardly pretended to be a “family” for a little while; a few fake laughs, some alcohol to ease uneasiness, participating in activities that might help divert the tensions inside each person that something feels “awfully wrong.”Rogers speaks healing and help into these very hurts.
He wants to help people experience each other, listen to each other, in short, participate in the journey of becoming a person.
