https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149025.The_Sacred_Canopy
This book is an extension of Peter Berger and Thomas Luckmann’s earlier book, “The Social Construction of Reality: A Treatise in the Sociology of Knowledge” written in 1966, in which the authors begin with basic sociological assumptions about mental representations and how human beings come to know the world and form impressions of it.
(Forget temporarily, as I had to, that to call religion a “sacred” form of world-building seems to very much beg the question.) He argues religion to be the oldest, most powerful legitimizing order which plays a central role in construing order and rationality in our lives, and therefore in maintaining reality because they are the only things that can provide sacred legitimation for this socially constructed reality.
I first read it in fall of 2001, and Berger was one of the few thinkers who helped me make sense of 9/11.Based on the work of Emile Durkheim, one of the founders of modern sociology, Berger examines how communities construct their own version of reality and then enforce it among its members.
This socially constructed reality becomes the norm through which the world is interpreted, measured and judged.
To violate the social construct, ie.
to disagree with that reality, appears to its adherents as insanity.
Not appearing insane is a powerful motivation to keep people toeing the line of orthodoxy.This is a thin little book, but it is very meaty and very hard chewing.
In later chapters he explains the trend of secularization that started—wait for it—with the Jews’ exodus...Under secularization, which I found most enlightening, when Berger describes what happens to religion when exposed to pluralistic competition, he unwittingly provides a sociological explanation for the prosperity gospel:“It is impossible, almost a priori, to market a commodity to a population of uncoerced consumers without taking their wishes concerning the commodity into consideration.
The prosperity gospel is therefore not merely a sham mockery of Christian teachings, it is also a new product responding to a vital consumer need!The same market forces that produce the prosperity gospel and mega-churches also produce the strengthening of neo-orthodoxy [brackets added]: “The pluralistic situation presents the religious institutions with two ideal-typical options.
The first half of this is essentially an application of basic principles of sociology to religion.
It is wordy, rambling, uses the royal "we" in an annoying way and probably could just be skimmed.
Part two then seeks to apply those principles to the Christian church.
However, much of the author's style continued to annoy me throughout.
Certainly understand why this was assigned in a multi-cultural context course for Christians, but wonder if someone's written something similar since the late 1960s, with gender inclusive language and easy readability.Hoping the rest of the reading for this course gets more interesting!
So informative, but SO dry. It was difficult to trudge through. I learned so much about how religion is constructed and how it is studied, but it was just so dense and I had to reread paragraphs a few times to understand the meaning. Definitely not for the casually interested.
To begin with, the atheistic assumptions that the theory is based off of willfully ignore that the way man objectivates and internalizes sociological phenomena is not so different from how he does the same with all objective nature.
By reading religion as a purely sociological or group-psychological fact, Berger completely ignores the implications of genuine religious belief as opposed to socio-religious identity.
Perhaps more detail would repulse any possible readers, but conclusions come to without more established arguments and examples become very shakey indeed.The read was interesting, but I found essential elements I disagreed with from top to bottom.
Don't read it while drunk; then it makes NO sense.I think I got this book because of Fromm.
Overall, interesting ideas, but ones that may not be new to you if you're well-versed in the aforementioned thinkers.
Further, I don't understand why some reviews praise Berger's "concise" and "lucid" writing style.
This was one of the driest books I've ever read.
If you're the average reader, and not a student of sociology or religious studies, I'd say eschew reading this text and find a summary of Berger's ideas.
I even saw some Goodreads reviews that would fit the bill, and I guarantee they're a lot less painful to read.
Perhaps I will have time to review this in future. For now, it is an exercise in viewing history from an atheist sociological perspective, as a human construct. The sociological insights of the dialectical process of how societies are shaped - first people shape culture and society (institutions, practices, technologies, processes, etc.) and then they shape us, often in ways we don't anticipate or intend - is superb.
I enjoyed this book, but I would have understood more of its application had he provided more examples. When he does, his points are very clear. When he does not, it is difficult to follow his theories sometimes. This book is very important in the context of religion and sociology, and I think Berger is brilliant, but so far, I enjoy listening to his lectures more than reading his writing.
A very good book indeed about sociology of religion. Should’ve read the english version, I read a translated one in Bahasa Indonesia. Not as easy as I expected to be, translation barriers, but I look forward to every Berger’s explanation to put religion in sociological frameworks and to map all issues and challenges related. New in this issues, and this book is great help.
A discussion of the course of religion in the Western World in the 20th century, as seen from a sociological perspective.
Many themes in the bible, not just the OT focus of values
Humans create meaning structures that are the norms, beliefs and worldviews of the group, and this process proceeds dialectically.
The “essential sociality of man” and the need to order our experiences, Berger states, are the biological foundations for his theory.
Religion for Berger is a subset of this general sociological theory, but now the norms and structures of society take on a distinct metaphysical and divine character that forms a “sacred canopy.” But then the secularization and pluralism of modern society began to dismantle that religious worldview, beginning with the increasing separation of church and state, moving to the split between Protestantism and Catholicism, and then the splits within Protestantism itself, and finally to the ‘death of god’ theories of the 1960s when Berger wrote this book.
Berger asserts that we need order and meaning.
The second and third chapters are about the constant necessity to legitimate this unstable body of knowledge against the chaotic(anomic) forces and how religions take upon this function by embellishing nomos with cosmic or sacred status.
The forth chapter is on alienation and how religion can act as an alienating force by making humans forget their actor status in their dialectical relation with the social and natural environment.
The second part of the book revolves around the project of understanding the world historical trend of secularisation as not simply an effect of social-structural developments (industrialisation, urbanisation, capitalism etc), but also partly as being born out of the substantively religious realm.
I first encountered Berger's The Sacred Canopy: Elements of a Sociological Theory of Religion as I was doing research for an essay on the narrative construction of selfhood.
I remember excitement when I read the first two chapters on Religion and World-Construction and Religion and World-Maintenance.I picked up TSC again in preparation for a lecture on worship, imagination, and our social imaginaries.
Christian worship, I hope, works in something of the same way--though as Berger points out later in a chapter on Religion and Alienation, it may mystify the dialectic leaving us alienated form our work.
(On the humanly constructed aspect of worship, see TSC's appendix on sociology and theology, esp.
This book takes a look at religion from a sociological perspective.
It leads to interesting questions about in what way do the institutions of my society shape me and is it how I want to be shaped.
The link between modernization and secularization is obviously too closely linked here because the empirical evidence does not match the predictions he made, so the next question is to look to see where Berger went wrong.
At the end of the day, this book is a short but thoughtful look into modernity and religion and how the two interact.
This book was written in the sixties, and there is something about the scientific writing of the sixties that makes it feel like a journal entry of natal-circumlocution.
However, Berger is quite thorough, and when one is covering a dialectical process, circumlocution seems to be inevitable.
The words that Berger uses aren't necessarily layman and this is what creates that illusion.
I also found a new way of looking at the zen texts I've read, in regards to identity and how it is related to one's perceived position in the universe.
Nevertheless, this foundation seems to be the only way of escaping anthropo-centrism.
Along with The Social Construction of Reality: A Treatise in the Sociology of Knowledge, I have desire to read this book by Peter Berger. When will there be time?
interesting. i appreciate the concepts he portrays in objectivity. it's interesting to learn how important and how frequently plausiblilty is challenged, and why religions today resemble small businesses, they've been selling out to each other in an attempt to modify their product for the masses. most poignant, though, is how he nails people's height of secularism or decline in religious piety to the economy, when the economy is rolling smoothly, the people are not inclined to be faithfully attending to their religious activities. hm. so very interesting...
Berger was a big proponent of the secularization thesis, that is, religious adherence would dim as the pluralism of ideas spread. How can conservative religious belief survive in an environment of religious pluralism? He argues it cannot. Religious adherence requires a 'sacred canopy' that is a society in which the religious view is taken to be default reality- competing religions destroy this canopy. He later recanted the view put forth in this book because it does not fit empirical reality.
As a religious studies major, I have read a fair amount of social theory on religion. Of all the works, this one best synthesizes the various ideas of the leaders in the field (Durkheim, Levi-Strauss, etc) and offers a comprehensive theory of religion that explains its unique epistemology and social function.
"on the other hand...." Berger loves that phrase and for that I give him a two. I think he makes some solid points and its something that everyone in a religious vocation should read... least you forget where you came from... Some of this is out dated, but considering it was written in the 1960s I think it has held up considerably well.
foundational book for the experienced believer but only to be read in tandem with Berger's "A Rumor of Angles" as well as a great teacher (like Richard Perkins at Houghton College). shows how much of religion is man-made but with faith this can be truth-enabling in believing God to be within this man-made culture of religion that attempts to express the Divine.
The ideas in this book are very applicable to everyday life (I mean, they are sociological principles), but the readability is hindered thanks to all the Latin (among other languages most likely) phrases throughout. It's an interesting read if your comprehension level is extremely high. Sadly for me, much of this book's value was lost due to this problem.
The Sacred Canopy is a little dated now, but it is still a clear and concise introduction to many of the ideas behind social construction theory and discursive analysis. This book is a great starting point for further research, you should check it out.
A bit on the dry side but the idea of socially constructing meaning and religion has stuck with me since I read it!
I know some Southern Baptists who would have a thing or two to say about this book. . . .I'm sure it seemed much more "groundbreaking" when it came out in the 60s.
I had to read this for Intro to Christian Theology. It was an interesting read.
interesting...
Foundational for a fuller understanding of society and religion, if a bit verbose.
