https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4136.Holidays_on_Ice
And yet I’ve been called out recently by a bunch of helpful strangers on Goodreads for not liking their favorite books—this asshole telling me I should avoid all literary fiction, this one here saying that my problem is with fiction in general—and I fear I’m going to develop a reputation for hating books, and then Otis will kick me off Goodreads and all the mean girls in the Feedback Group will cheer and the only people who will care are the one hundred sixty-four people in my friends list, but then a huge chunk of those people are real-life friends who have only ever logged into Goodreads once, so in the end there are about five people who will care.
To the tune of “Frosty the Snowman”Da-vid Se-darisWas a writer oh-so-drollWith a quirky style and take on lifeThat will put you on the floor.Da-vid Se-darisWrites the weirdest stuff you’ll seeAbout the Christmas whore and the Macy’s elvesAnd deathly children’s pageantry.There must have been some crazyIn the Sedaris family tree‘Cause David ain’t the only oneHave you seen his sister Amy?Oh! Da-vid Se-daris!Can your stories all be true?It matters not when you write as hotAs in Holidays on Ice!
After reading the first short story, I thought this was going to be a delightful book.
"SantaLand Diaries," after all, had me rolling down the isle of the plane on which I was reading it...
At any rate, I came home in a dither to read the other stories as well.
It was beyond black humor, to just being black...
Can you say "smug?" That's what I kept feeling about the author when suffering through the fiction stories.
I gave this two stars only for "Santaland Diaries" - otherwise it'd be a solid one (for lack of a worse ranking).
2.5 to 3 stars - rounded up to 3 on the official rating to give Sedaris the benefit of the doubt.
I did not enjoy this quite as much as previous Sedaris titles I have read.
Also, since this is a much shorter compilation of holiday related stories, it did not have the full satisfaction of one of his full length books with all original material.
(Note: I say "holiday related" in the previous sentence, but there is one story in here about cadavers that I was not quite sure how it related to holidays).If you are a die hard Sedaris fan, check it out.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/If you follow my reading, you’re probably wondering what the hell could have happened to make me rate a Sedaris selection less than every Star.
But then December rolls around and I am faced with the daunting task of shopping combined with the busiest time of year at work and I completely lose my mojo and just want to hibernate until the new year.
Sadly, it seems David doesn’t know when to stop when it comes to fictional works and takes the joke to the point of it being the literary equivalent of a beaten dead horse.
You can read that essay for free HERE or take a listen/look HERE.
Because, aside from one inclusion, this is a collection of short fiction, where as when Sedaris is riffing on real life in his autobio journal work, the man is on fire!David Sedaris is best listened to rather than read, in my opinion.
Some of these shorts are not read by him, but rather by guest narrators.
That's like casting Rip Torn as the evil-yet-somehow-handsome villain in your movie...
...and then replacing him with Rip Taylor, because you thought it would liven things up.Just one last gripe.
Just the kind of book to get me into the spirit of Christmas (no sarcasm intended).
I always get David Sedaris and Dave Eggers confused for some reason.
I thought I'd better read it now during the holidays so I wouldn't have to wait another year to get to it--I can never watch Christmas movies or read holiday stories when it's not Christmas; it's depressing.Anyway, this was a perfect little book to read during all the holiday chaos while suffering from a near-mental breakdown.
Soutas, author of this really bad, whiny reviewSo really, thank you Dave Eggers David Sedaris, I like you.
My mother would read these saccharine missives with just the right amount of over-the-top chirpiness, and then would compose her own, much darker, Christmas form letter about our family.
However, even in her darkest moments, I doubt my mother could have matched David Sedaris’ send-up of form letters in his essay, “Season’s Greetings to Our Friends and Family!!!!” Humor has always been about pushing the envelope.
I had a friend once comment vigorously, “You think the movie Fargo is funny?
There’s no way to convey its humor adequately.
He's all about family and one-up-manship in the category of who brought the most unique/popular gift and who created the best dish for the potluck end of the Christmas meal.
So I packed up the dog this one year and drove to a secret get-away for Christmas alone.
(Think "ahhh," not "awww") His gift to me was this book on CD, which I listened to during the 3 hour drive to my holiday sanctuary.
I laughed so hard that I have to say, this was among my BEST holidays EVER.
Long road trip over Christmas to the get-away destination and Holidays On Ice in the CD player.
Like most people, I have often laughed at the strange humor David Sedaris illuminates in his past books, Naked being the funniest, IMO.
I guess I never saw HOLIDAYS ON ICE as a book to give someone for Christmas; it is the type of book that is better gotten at a used bookstore or through a Secret Santa that is the workplace scrooge.
I just want them to experience what it is like to work this type of job.
Sure these essays and stories are misanthropic and sometimes course, filled with crude humor and bleak holiday cheer, but they are funny.
Okay.
Let it be said: "Santaland Diaries," the first essay of this book, is wonderful.
But the rest of the book is basically filler; this was before Sedaris found his niche (humor essayist), and it really shows.
He should never, ever write fiction, for example, and yet he tries to here.
The results are not pretty, or even very readable.It's also notable that half of the pieces in this short book have appeared in other collections of his.
So, really, this is not worth buying; get "Santaland Diaries" some other way, and regret nothing about missing the rest of this collection.
Oh, Mr. Sedaris, how I adore thee. This was my 4th time reading this ridiculous holiday collection and it’s just as good as I remembered. I laughed hardest at the personal essays, my favorites being (of course) “Santaland Diaries” and “Six to Eight Black Men.” If you like dark, twisted humor, and aren’t easily offended, give it a listen. Sedaris is best enjoyed on audio.
I enjoy David Sedaris, in part because of his constant vigilance for finding the worst in people.
Exploring the darker side of man makes for funny personal essays.But when he turns to fiction, he has absolute creative control over his subjects.
But each of his "fiction" stories devolves from amusing and odd to troubling and grotesque.
My advice is to pick this book up at a book store or library and read this first piece, Santaland Diaries, about his time as an elf at Macy's.
That's classic Sedaris and worth reading.
There were only three stories in this collection that I didn't absolutely despise; Santaland Diaries, Dinah the Christmas Whore, and 6 to 8 Black Men were the only ones that were even remotely funny.
The rest I honestly wish I had never read.
I'd suggest reading these in the store or borrowing the book from the library if you really want to read it.
I guess my funny bone is broken or I'm not drunk enough, because after the first story I could not hardly stomach the rest of the stories. My first one star rating. If you are looking for a dark Christmas comedy, "The Stupidest Angel", was in my opinion, head and shoulders better than this mess.
Holidays on Ice is great right down to the cover which features an alcoholic beverage with ice in in it (adorable and much like my family's holidays). It features Christmas themed stories some his holiday experiences, others just featuring his talent as a writer. Santa land Diaries is the first essay and it is the star of this show. These are journal entries from when David at the age of 33 worked as an elf at Macy's Santaland...at the age of 33.  It chronicles the insane parents, the unfortunat
These are journal entries from when David at the age of 33 worked as an elf at Macy's Santaland...at the age of 33.
It chronicles the insane parents, the unfortunate children, an interesting and multi-cultural array of Santa's and the policies Macy's enforces with regard to Santaland.
There is so much gold here it is unreal, a Santa who never breaks character ( he is called Santa Santa) there is a gay elf (snowball) who leads all the other gay elves and a Santa on, there is a designated corner for children to vomit in, I could go on.One of my fav bits "The back hallway was jammed with people.
I had two people say that to me today, I'm going to have you fired.
A collection of humorous short stories.
Years ago I saw someone perform a one-man show of Santaland Diaries and I howled with laughter.
I wanted to read this for that story.
It's a brilliant and funny story.
I found another story that had me coughing up a lung in my car with laughter Six to Eight Black men.
The rest of the stories in the collection have some funny moments or humorous moments.
But the two stories above are enough for me to give this uproariously funny book 5 stars.
Interesting right?I had fun with this and I might just have to read it again next Christmas.
A good bit of humor with some very dark turns sprinkled with subtle social commentary define this collection of both fiction and non-fiction shorts.
I loved the opening story, SantaLand, as well as the one about getting locked out of the house on a winter day by their mother.
As for the fiction stories, well, it seemed Sedaris isn't sure when to end a joke.
I don't mind a good dark turn, but to tack one onto the end unnecessarily after the overall point has already been made is more manipulation by shock value rather than good writing.
This collection intrigued me enough to want to read more even if I didn't love it.
This is a reread for me, although this version has a few more new stories.Sedaris's version of the holidays is a comfort in a world saturated with sentimentality during Christmas.
He pushes the limits, and hearing it in his voice is the way to go."The Santaland Diaries" feels like the greatest classic, about being a seasonal Macy's elf."Six to Eight Black Men" was my favorite this time around, about how Christmas traditions are different in Holland, and how political correctness tends to alter those traditions over time (necessarily, I'd add, yikes!)This audiobook also includes one story recorded live, and that's the best experience.
This book gets one star instead of zero because I did not completely hate "Dinah the Christmas Whore" and thought "SantaLand Diares" was just kind of okay. I didn't like any of the other stories even the slightest bit.
David just sounds like such a jerk in the books. Sometimes I have a difficult time getting into these.Review to come.Audiobook CommentsRead by the author with his signature dry humor - which made it so much fun to listen.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
"SantaLand Diaries" is my favorite Sedaris story, bar none. And it's perfect for this time of year! Ah, refreshing cynicism.
When I’m feeling down and fragile (from too many “emotional” reads), there’s nothing quite like David Sedaris to comfort me.
If you're new to David Sedaris, this collection would actually be a great place to start.
I was a bit disappointed that the final three or four stories are all ones that I’ve heard before, from Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim and Squirrel Seeks Chipmunk: A Modest Bestiary, but really, I didn’t mind listening to them all over again.
I mean, you really can’t have a David Sedaris holiday collection without 6 to 8 black men.
And that’s another thing: David Sedaris simply must be listened to.
From cynical mall elves to the most terrible holiday letter, this holiday-themed short story collection shows David Sedaris at his wackiest–but don’t sorry, it’s still dark and sarcastic, too. One of my favorite ways to get into the holiday spirit, sans the warm-and-fuzzies.–Emily Wenstromfrom The Best Books We Read In December 2016: http://bookriot.com/2017/01/03/riot-r...
You will never look at visiting Santa the same way. The other stories were a bit hit and miss. I did enjoy the review of the children's plays though.
Halfway through I speeded up from 1.25 to 1.5.
For the last hour I listened at double speed.
I love the Santaland story.
So I said to him, "Well Gio when the revolution comes, you're the first person I'm going to kill".
I told them "Good because I meant it!".Yes I am usually a peace loving person but this was Boston in the 1980's.There was one other holiday story that made me laugh.
So many of these stories contained sheer nastiness that I was really taken aback.
Sedaris is (or used to be) well loved.
I always enjoy David Sedaris and this was a fun and entertaining listen. I enjoy reading Sedaris' books, but listening to him makes it so much better.
Mean and Misanthropic.I do not like mean-spirited sardonic wit.
For the most part, the author’s cynical comments are derisive, insulting, and misanthropic.
I didn’t laugh out loud in ANY of the remaining essays.
However, three essays are noteworthy, combining humor with thoughtful reflection: SIX TO EIGHT BLACK MEN, US AND THEM and SANTA SHAVES.
The remaining essays?
Metaphorically clever essays falter or fail to deliver.
While awaiting for his new release, CALYPSO, I decided to read anything of his currently available.
I certainly hope CALYPSO is worthy of the hype.
I was looking forward to reading this as I've never read anything by David Sedaris and I had heard really good things .
plus I was really in the mood for a light/funny book.
But, ugh, this was awful.
His writing did NOTHING for me.
In fact, I was rather turned off by his topics and style.I brought the book to the DMV to read.
During the god awful four hours I spent there I couldn't even bring myself to finish the last two short stories.
I just sat there—bored out of my mind—because that was more appealing then reading this.
