https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10930746-the-silver-key
This charming combination of Dunsanian narrative, philosophical reflection and gothic atmosphere is the bridge connecting all the Randolph Carter tales, and is also contains some evocative details of Lovecraft's autobiography, only thinly disguised.It tells of Randolph Carter, a man who, having dreamed great dreams in childhood, was seduced from the gifts of his own imagination by the limited virtues of realism, the promises of science, the sham beauties of religion, the stark emptiness of atheism, and finally by the false dreams of the occult, until he came to believe in nothing, surviving only through his “love for harmony.” Then, one day, he discovers what is literally the key to his childhood dreams, and he returns to the countryside of his boyhood haunts to unlock the door.The boyhood haunts he returns to looks suspiciously like the town of Foster, Rhode Island, the home of a maternal great uncle he first visited when he was six years old:
A Buddy Read - research with and awesome GR friend Craig into Lovecraft :) A nice short story with a bit of historical spices :) Maybe a An definitely a mysterious key!!! :)
Randolph Carter lost his connection to the dream world. All those practical ideas and science from the real world almost destroyed his ability to dream at all. So, he sets out to find out which is superior.
Negde u kasnim godinama, to mu uspeva uz pomoć mističnog srebrnog ključa, tako da dobija ne samo pristup nekada davno sanjanim svetovima, već i mnogo širem i neverovatnijem znanju poreklom iz drugih dimenzija Kosmosa.
možda je malo prepisivao od ćaće Lavkrafta).Elem, ono što se mene više dojmilo u ovoj knjizi jeste bolno otvoren autobiografski portret autora kroz lik Randolfa Kartera:
(...) A kad nije uspeo da pronađe divote u stvarima čiji zakoni su bili znani i merljivi, kazali su mu da mu nedostaje mašta i da je nezreo, zato što su mu se više dopadali prividi iz snova od privida našeg fizičkog sveta.
Home is Never Enough7 January 2017 This is actually two short stories, though the second one pretty much follows on from where the first ends (and the first is much, much shorter than the second). Anyway, once again we meet up with Rudolph Carter, and this time he is looking for a special key. Apparently he lost it, which is a little confusing because it seems that he never actually had it in the first place (it turns out that the key is the key to his childhood wonder). Well, maybe he at one st
Anyway, once again we meet up with Rudolph Carter, and this time he is looking for a special key.
When we last left him he had been on this huge dream quest through this fantastic (and rather horrific) realm looking for a magnificent city, though at the end of that quest he does a Dorothy and realises that there truly is no place like home.
Oh, I should mention that the second short story is called  Through the Gate of the Silver Key. Oh, and somebody also gets scared to death at the end, but I've come to expect that from Lovecraft.
Never let anyone else tell you what to think, lest you lose your own key to the gate of dreams.
Man is young and dreams of fantastic and beautiful things to rise above the utilitarianism of every-day life.
Man grows up and gets bogged down in the sadness of the real world.
Man gets old and recaptures the dreams of his youth, becoming ever more absorbed until death when he reaches the unity with dreams he has longed for.The standalone story is a little too short to convey much depth, but read in conjunction with his other dream-cycle works in particular I think it is valuable in the way it fleshes out his ideas and philosophy.
lasting beauty comes only in dream
The Silver Key, H.P. Lovecraftعنوان: کلید سیمین؛ نویسنده: هوارد فیلیپس لاوکرافت؛ مترجم: کاترینا ورزی؛ ویراستار: بنفشه محمودی؛ دبیر مجموعه: فرزاد فربد؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، انتشارات پریان، 1393، در 228 ص، شابک: 9786007058121؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 ممجموعه سه داستان خواهد بود، البته به گفته مترجم
The Silver Key, H.P. Lovecraftعنوان: کلید سیمین؛ نویسنده: هوارد فیلیپس لاوکرافت؛ مترجم: کاترینا ورزی؛ ویراستار: بنفشه محمودی؛ دبیر مجموعه: فرزاد فربد؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، انتشارات پریان، 1393، در 228 ص، شابک: 9786007058121؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 ممجموعه‌ سه داستان خواهد بود، البته به گفته مترجم
Zagrebačka nakladaZagreb, 2012.Preveo Toni GolubOvu iduću rečenicu zadnjih dana baš često pišem. Jezik je tipična lofkraftiština . Zanimljiv je jezik prijevoda gdje se u govoru jednog sporednog lika umeće kajkavsko narječje vjerojatno kao odgovor na jedno englesko narječje (vjerojatno neko Nove Engleske) iz izvornika.Radnja je isto tipična lofrkaftiština. Potraga za ushitom rane mladosti, za svijetom snova koje odrasla dob oduzima postepenim glupavljenjem. U biti, glavni lik traži ključ kojim se želi vratiti u svoje djetinstvo, kojim želi putovati kroz vrijeme. Jedna od boljih Lovecraftovih priča.Bilo bi prekul napraviti crtić po ovome.Hasta luego!
The usual Lovecraft story really, except that for once, instead of visions of the deep past, one gets the gift of prophecy. This was a nice little addition to the complex realm invented by this prolific author.
Warped and bigoted with preconceived illusions of justice, freedom, and consistency, they cast off the old lore and the old ways with the old beliefs; nor ever stopped to think that that lore and those ways were the sole makers of their present thoughts and judgments, and the sole guides and standards in a meaningless universe without fixed aims or stable points of reference." Carter's exestential musings made me feel like banging my head against the wall.
He basically realizes how meaningless the whole of existance is, and tries to invent meaning by retreating into the only thing he has left that gratifies him: his dreams.
Cuando elijo un libro quiero sumergirme en un mundo nuevo y seguir las aventuras emocionantes del protagonista, no quiero releer varias veces cada párrafo para entender que me quiso decir.
Probablemente haya habido significados ocultos pero yo me quedé solo con lo que es evidente y seguí adelante, porque no tengo ganas de analizar nada u,u (Por suerte existe el Club de Lectura y seguro Monse se va a poder explayar al respecto de una forma mucho más amena e interesante!).
Luego de la quinta página más o menos se nos presenta recién la trama de este cuento, y no estuvo mal, pero ya el principio me dejó mal predispuesta y lo leí rápido para sacármelo de encima.
Empezábamos bien, Carter filosofaba sobre los sueños, y como estos suelen ser más apasionantes que vivir en la realidad que muchas veces puede ser chata o excesivamente racional (según Carter).
(view spoiler)[ Pasamos de la filosofía del protagonista, a que este nos recuerde tiempos de su niñez para terminar suponiendo que Randolph logró ir al "mundo de los sueños" a ser, quizás, el rey de otro mundo.
(hide spoiler)].Pensé que con este cuento, el autor quiso proponernos otra cosa, un cuento con un personaje más reflexivo, simplemente que cuestione su vida y la vida en general; y no que termine inmerso en un mundo de fantasía.
**Leído para el Club de Lectura**Para la segunda entrega del Club de Lectura le tocó a Gloria elegir el libro, y se decidió por una selección de cuentos de Lovecraft.No fue la gran cosa, me da la sensacion de que se disfruta más si uno leyó (y le gustaron) las historias anteriores relacionadas a Randolph Carter. Se sintió como un preludio a otra historia, como una especie de prólogo, más que como una historia en sí misma.
I would have enjoyed the second part a _lot_ more if the first part hadn't felt so much like "NOBODY UNDERSTANDS MY UNIQUE AND COMPELLING TALE OF WOE. Also, everyone sucks."
Trojka, samo zato što mi svemirske trans-dimenzionalne epopeje nisu zanimljive za čitanje. Budući da je u pitanju Lavkraft, učinio sam ustupak.
Оточуючі глузували з цього уявного світу і привчали вірити у реальні речі.
(view spoiler)[Тож, до тридцяти років Картер перестав відвідувати світ фантазій.
Але в них він зустрів свого двоюрідного діда, який вже давно помер.
Картер знайшов ключ, і через якийсь час відчув, що має їхати до старого будиночку в лісі, де в дитинстві він часто навідував свого двоюрідного діда.
Пробираючись по пагорбу через ліс Картеру почали ввижатися речі, давно зниклі, і скоро він вже був хлопчиком і не міг згадати, звідки у нього взявся ключ.
А наступного дня він відніс ключ до лісу і несвідомо встромив його у знайдену шпарину.
This might be the first Lovecraft piece I've read that contains a character.
Being presented with his insecurities and his transition from the fantastic to the natural and back to the fantastic makes him the most dynamic character thus far and this piece the most literary.
All of this was done from a close 3rd person perspective, which adds to my surprise since most of Lovecraft's successes so far seem to be in the 1st person.The loss of dreams and childhood wonder is a supremely human experience.
من طرفدار ژانرهای تخیلی و فانتزی نیستم واقعا. اما لاوکرفت با جایگاهی که توی ادبیات داره رو نمیشه نادیده گرفت. البته شاید برای شروع کار خوبی از لاوکرفت رو برای خوندن انتخاب نکردم. در هر صورت خوندن این داستان برای من لذت چنانی نداشت. شاید در ابتدا که تصاویر قابل درکتر هستند داستان هم جذابتر بود اما هرچی توی داستان پیش میریم فضاهایی که نویسنده میسازه غیر قابل تصور تر هستند. البته که فکر اصلی فکر جالبیه تفکر اینکه هرکسی یک وجود واحد در یک دنیای واحد نیست جالب و تامل برانگیزه و امروزه توی علم هم خیلی
شاید در ابتدا که تصاویر قابل درک‌تر هستند داستان هم جذاب‌تر بود اما هرچی توی داستان پیش می‌ریم فضاهایی که نویسنده می‌سازه غیر قابل تصور تر هستند.
البته که فکر اصلی فکر جالبیه تفکر اینکه هرکسی یک وجود واحد در یک دنیای واحد نیست جالب و تامل برانگیزه و امروزه توی علم هم خیلی پیگیری می‌شه این نظریه اما من فکر می‌کنم یکی از نکات مهم توی هر داستانی حتی تخیلی و غیر واقعی امکان متصور شدن فضاهاییه که نویسنده می‌سازه.
و بسیاری از فضاهایی که نویسنده توضیح می‌ده برای خواننده قابل درک نیست به هیچ عنوان و این از جذابیت اثر کم می‌کنه.
..the blind cosmos grinds aimlessly on from nothing to something and from something back to nothing again, neither heeding nor knowing the wishes or existence of the minds that flicker for a second now and then in the darkness.MThis idea runs through almost every story Lovecraft writes, and this one hammers the point home incessantly.
Layer on top of that the arrogant ennui of Randolph Carter, with his smug disapproval of all the humans who are just not up to his intellectual standards, as they muck about in the backwaters of science and philosophy.
Surprisingly upbeat for Lovecraft. Existential dread? Just open the forbidden box of your forefathers and find the silver key! Goes a bit overboard describing the ennui before getting the plot moving.
“Existen repliegues en el tiempo y en el espacio, en la fantasía y en la realidad, que sólo un soñador puede adivinar”Cada vez más quiero seguir los pasos de Kuranes y del viajante Carter. Imprescindible el ciclo onírico de nuestro maestro de Providence.
There are portions of this I would really think of tattooing on my body if I were into that sort of thing. Nice rant on modernity. Another dreamer story, which I was preparing to hate story-wise until the last paragraph pulled me back in. Also, hello Arkham, and a returning character.
This was one of my ABSOLUTE favorite stories from the entire collection of all his works. Beautifully BEAUTIFULLY written. Fantasy like. Perfect length. And can be related to much of the world today. A side of lovecraft we don't often get.
UKUPNA OCENA (overall rating) - 4/10Radnja (story) - 5/10Likovi (characters) - 4/10Pripovedanje (writing style) - 4/10Okruženje (setting) - 5/10
8/10
He is not for me.
Anteriormente había compaginado la insulsez de la vida cotidiana con excursiones nocturnas a extrañas y antiguas ciudades situadas más allá del espacio, y a hermosas e increíbles regiones de unas tierras a las que se llega cruzando mares etéreos.
Pero al alcanzar la edad madura sintió que iba perdiendo poco a poco esta capacidad de evasión, hasta que finalmente le desapareció por completo.
Ya no pudieron hacerse a la mar sus galeras para remontar el río Oukranos, hasta más allá de las doradas agujas de campanario de Thran, ni vagar sus caravanas de elefantes a través de las fragantes selvas de Kled, donde duermen bajo la luna, hermosos e inalterables, unos palacios de veteadas columnas de marfil.
The plot would be interesting, but its philosophical message takes to much space and it is of relatively little interest.In this story Carter discovers, at the age of 30, that he has gradually lost the key to the gate of dreams.
As he ages, he finds that his daily waking exposure to the more "practical", scientific ideas of man, has eventually eroded his ability to dream as he once did, and has made him regretfully subscribe more and more to the mundane beliefs of everyday, waking "real life".
But still not certain which is truer, he sets out to determine whether the waking ideas of man are superior to his dreams.
