https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/441816.Love_s_Lovely_Counterfeit
Indeed, this is very much a book of its time: 1942.
there's some witty repartees between lovers, the smoky corners of dusty hotels and the vintage car drives through the "mean" streets - everything we've come to associate with the genre.The book is quite short, but that's OK - it tells its story with an economy of style and with restrained emotion that is quite convincing.
A clever, amoral chiseler aims to overthrow the crime boss of a small midwestern city – so, Red Harvest, but with Cain’s nasty, sexy sheen. Like most of the rest of the stuff I’ve read by Cain, this goes on 30 pages longer than it really needed to, but you can’t quite bring yourself to complain.
Within the first few pages of this book, I hit upon the following exchange: "He hasn't got a chance.""He's got Sol worried.""You mean Mayor Maddux has.""I don't get it.""Well, Sol's the main beneficiary of this, our present administration, isn't he? The boys had to figure some way to make him kick in. So Maddux told him who's back of the Swede.""You mean Delany?" --to which my only real response was, "Look, James M. Cain, if you don't want me to read your novel, you can just say so." It's possib
They're both getting a buzz off the David-vs-Goliath-meets-screwball-comedy vibe of running around Lake City outwitting Caspar and falling in love, and then they succeed, and Ben thinks, "Well, there seems to a vacuum in this town's organized crime structure now, and I think I'm the man to fill it." The rest of the story follows from there.If Cain isn't great at introducing a large cast of characters, he is consistently great at letting those characters come up with prosaically clever schemes, and the section on the pinball games is my single favorite part of the book.
A former pro football player who cannot get into the service (the book is set during WWII) because of an old injury, the protagonist wants to get out of his situation in the worst possible way.
Then, just as things look like they’re going to work out for the character, comes a twist one almost anticipates.
Just when one thinks that everything is clear, the picture becomes murky and dangerous again.For me, this is an extremely valuable book because it deals with a time period in which most big cities had made pinball illegal.
En este caso nos encontramos con una novela al uso, clásica, con esos ingredientes que definieron al género.
Un chófer sirve al gran criminal que maneja todos los hilos del hampa en la ciudad y está emparentado con el alcalde vigente, eso sí, se acercan elecciones y Ben buscará un contacto en el otro candidato para filtrarle lo más sucio del alcalde actual para que gané el otro candidato.
Este argumento nos sirve para encontrar esos elementos ineludibles, bajos fondos, asesinatos, traiciones, trapos sucios, ambición, corrupción policial y política, la vida misma.
Muy bien narrado y llevado hasta el sorprendentemente almibarado final, aún así, una buena novela y claro exponente de este género que nos apasiona.
I'll read more, but there are two basic plot problems, both of which are spoilers.
The fact that the basic plot of the novel is itself a spoiler is part of the problem.
For no particular reason, the sister shows up, and the sister is not much different from the MC's original love interest except for the fact that she is as amoral as Ben (the MC).
However, for all practical purposes, his original love interest was just as amoral, since Ben can blackmail her into doing anything.
If he just died, the sister he loved could have testified against him, letting the dead man be guilty of everything.
Forced into the job by his prematurely ended career in football, he harbors grudges for the station in life that the mafioso appointed for him.The book begins at a time when a naive idealist is running a hopeless campaign for a mayor of the city, believing that he will win a mandate to flush the town from corruption and the mafia.
The revelation elevates June's rank in the campaign.In the course of their work together to discover more mud material needed for the election Ben and June fall in love.
One of the only pieces Cain wrote with a movie in mind, Love's Lovely Counterfeit is lacking in every area that makes his other novels compelling and highly readable.
This seemed like a chore to get through and before I finished it this time I had started to read it several times last year.
Highly disappointing as a whole but there are some great passages that save this one from being a total loss for me.
Another Cain book, this one I hadn't heard of before now. This one's straightforward crime, the story of a mob chauffeur who sees a chance to take over for his boss. Naturally he meets a woman or two, one of whom is truly bad and therefore the love of his life. The story's pretty fun, full of dirty politics, murder switcheroos and guys with nicknames like Goose and Lefty. I admit I was hoping for a worse ending for the bad girl because she sounded like a real pain in the neck.
4th from cain for me. onward and upward. an okay story...just okay...had the feel of something plotted out in advance and written to that device though it did get a tad more interesting as it neared the end. abrupt ending...as if...cue porky pig...da-da-da-da dat's all folks! cue the looney tunes theme song.
B-Movie Cain.We're in Lake City, where the chauffeur of a mob boss takes over the rackets and an idealistic young woman aligns with him, until her trouble-prone sister enters the scene. Mines the same territory as Hammett's "Glass Key" and "Red Harvest," but with lesser yields.
There's a good reason you've never read this one before---it's no-good.
Basically, everybody is evil.
