https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16280._Why_Are_All_The_Black_Kids_Sitting_Together_in_the_Cafeteria_
As a caucasion mother of an adopted african american son...this book was a MUST READ. It teaches us how to have effective and constructive conversations about race. Recent generations of caucasions have taught their young children to avoid using race to describe other people. Unfortunately, all this does is create a society frightened to discuss race. Without effective communication on this topic, we will never achieve true peace and equality among different races and cultures.
White people don't have to confront their racial identities, Tatum says, because society will automatically conform to and provide advantages for them for the duration of their lives.
So, Tatum says, the voices of some of the evil characters in a Disney animated movie are provided by minorities.
Tatum, convinced of overwhelming white racism in modern America provides us with...one underdeveloped girl's dimwitted response and The Lion King.
Tatum tries to redefine racism to mean something like "a system of advantage based on skin color." Apparently, white people hold most of the wealth in America, and they use it to their advantage.
Anything technical (this is a psychology book) is broken down for easy understanding and she goes over a wide range of scenarios, including brief explanations of the specific oppressions of Native/Indian, Asian and Latin@ communities in the USA and how these affect people at different ages and stages as she does with black and white people (pointing out that the latter rarely realise that they have a racial identity).
More important that white people feeling good about ourselves is people of colour being able to access histories in which they are protagonists rather than passive victims, and, Tatum explains how she makes sure to mention how oppressed racialised people have always resisted slavery, colonisation and so on.Tatum’s discussion of affirmative action is really helpful I think.
White people: This is not a Racism 101 book.
Don't read it if it's your first, second, or even third book on racism.
You'll feel attacked and guilty, and write a self-centered, whiny review about how the author is so reverse-racist, and how there's only really one human race, and how you're really just tired of people talking about "privilege" and "racism" and blahblahblah...If you're past that stage of indoctrinated colorblind racism, past the knee-jerk reactionary self-defensiveness that comes when someone points out that you unwittingly support and benefit from institutionalized oppression (and maybe you should DO something about it)...
I suggest this book as a must-read for any serious anti-racist, especially whites.
At times it might get a little pedantic, BUT if you can put your uber-white, privileged, upper-middle-class ego aside for the duration of this book, you will learn a LOT about WHY THE HECK all the black peole DO sit together in the cafeteria!
Best metaphor for race attitudes I have heard thus far is from this book: Racism is a MOVING walkway (think like in an airport)AND UNLESS we turn around and walk the other way or get off, we are BENEFITTING from a racist society, a society built upon a thick foundation of racism that is woven into the fabric of our everyday life.
Just sitting there on this walkway and abstaining from overtly racist actions does not help anything.
What is it about the curriculum and the wider culture that reinforces the notion that academic excellence is an exclusively White domain?....an oppositional identity discouraging academic achievement is not inevitable even in a racist society." (64-65)For Whites who begin to learn about racism, Tatum discusses how, because of the conflict with their self-image as a good, fair person, they often try to turn away from the responsibility of racial advantage.
I was angry pretty much the entire time I was reading this, until the last two chapters about races other than black people, and biracial kids, respectively.
God I hope I'm never that narrow-minded that I would disdain someone based on a race they can't help being.4) Something that might have been relevant when the book came out is, in Chapter 8, she talks about Hispanic kids in high school being discouraged from speaking Spanish, and even of some kids getting detention for being caught speaking Spanish in their free time at school.
It’s useful – and probably necessary – for teachers and others to understand what kids are experiencing.In writing about white people, the author is familiar with common racial attitudes, and explains them in terms of a growth model even though many people get stuck somewhere along the way (the same of course can be said for black people): from not having to think about race, to blaming minorities for their situation, to white guilt, to hopefully speaking out against racism in a productive way.
As an important and foundational addition to the conversation of race in America in the last 10 years, Tatum's "Why Are All the Black Kids..." is a balanced mix of research, theory, and personal experiences that is easy to read and extremely accessible.Tatum not only attempts to answer the question of her book but also touches on race issues beyond the black/white paradigm.
These sections almost work as a self-help book for parents and I would encourage any young/new parents to read Tatum's advice.The only aspect of "Why are all the Black Kids..." that feels unbalanced in Tatum's assessment of racism is the issue of desegregation.
I was told by my peers that I shouldn't enroll in African American studies classes, because there was always a long waiting list, and that if I wanted to learn about Black culture, I needed to educate myself and let the students of color have first crack at those classes.
And, again, in my deep-seeded political correctness, tinged with guilt and fear, I knew only not to ask why.When I went to Northwestern University to study American History on the graduate level, I was again surrounded by good meaning white folks like myself - and no people of color, save for my first year advisor (who soon left to go to NYU).
She attempts to redefine racism (if you're white, you're racist).
Her racial identity theory may hit home (I'm biracial), but it is too narrow.
Blacks do not have the monopoly on discrimination, identity issues, fitting in, etc.
A rejection of education is not a result of discrimination, it's primarily a cultural choice.
This "acting white" idea promotes a false dichotomy.
A young, black child/teen does not have to throw off his ethnicity, unless his ethnic commitments are not good (like disrespect, violence, undervaluing of education, or resenting other races).
But that's not becoming "white," that's becoming educated.
According to Tatum, there are seven common categories of “otherness”, or the basis upon which we define ourselves: race or ethnicity, gender, religion, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, age, and physical or mental ability.For each of these categories, there is a group that predominates over another, based occasionally on population numbers (Homosexuals, for example, comprise roughly 10% of the population) or, sometimes, arbitrarily based on traditional or historical precepts (A majority of Americans, for example, still consider this a “Christian” nation).The Dominant group is the group that tends to set the rules and limitations for the Subordinate group.
Indeed, it is reasonable that in many college campuses in America (especially the elite schools on the East and West Coasts as well as the Midwest and New South), such cross-racial friendships that whites have are almost certainly Asians and perhaps Hispanics, but probably not blacks.
That Taylor persists in lumping them in "Asian Pacific Americans" betrays, inspite of her cursory discussion, a superficial understanding of this group of Americans.Perhaps no where else is Tatum's failure to go beyond the black-white divide more clearly illustrated than her cursory treatment of the experience of Americans of middle eastern descent.
I'm giving this one five stars, mostly because I think just about everyone should read it.I was already familiar with many of the concepts and ideas put forth in this book (thanks, Tumblr), so I'm not sure how it would come across to people running into these issues for the very first time.
In the epilogue, which was written after the book was first published, she does mention where one can find the "statistical evidence," but I still think a better place for it is in the very front of the book.I think one of this book's big strengths, though, is that a lot of (white) people will be able to read this book without feeling too triggered or defensive.
No understanding of identities outside race--made obvious when she conflates sex and gender in one chapter, making transphobic assumptions about boys who wish to grow up and become “Mommy.” The only thing she explains decently enough is the simple fact that RACISM AND WHITE PRIVILEGE STILL EXIST--an obvious point that’s been written about over and over again, in much more helpful ways.My advice: stick to books about race and privilege that are written from anthropological and sociological perspectives.
Thought provoking. Preachy and condescending. However, before giving this book a rating and a thorough review some thoughtful consideration (and maybe a re-read) is in order. But I wonder, if I disagree with Tatum, am I a racist? If I agree, am I still a racist by way of my whiteness and white privilege? Can I be less racist by becoming more aware of my inherent racism? Or does that just make me more racist? Is it even possible for a white person to be UN-racist under Tatum's definition of terms?I need to give this more thought...
And if you look closer, you'll also see kids move from group to group, trying on different identies; this is what adolescents do.This book describes a very black and white world (no joke intended), where the world I see outside my window is all sorts of shades of grey (actually brown, I guess).
In my opinion, it is better to have more a more diverse teaching team in mixed schools/colleges so that children see all sorts of role models as they grow up.I hate the us and them language - exactly who is defining who is in what group?
The author uses research as well as anecdotal evidence to discuss the process of racial identity development from childhood to adulthood among us folks in the US of A.
She has a specific focus on the Black and White issue, but Tatum also embraces a broader discussion to include 'Brown" and other other racial identities in her conversations.
I highly recommend this book for anyone in education, and also any group looking for a book that will facilitate conversations about race and education.This book ends with a comprehensive list of resources and other books to read for further research, for parents etc.
I've gone back to this book quite a few times, jumping through chapters, revisiting chapters, highlighting sections. I finally just sat and read it cover to cover so I can get the whole perspective. It has helped and will certainly continue to help me engage my students in conversations about race and privilege in my Silenced Voices class. It's also a good reminder for me that I am only scratching the surface...the student will have to work to continue the conversation in the future...but we have to start somewhere.
The first portion of the book focuses on being Black, and coming to terms with what Dr. Tatum, and many others in the Black community, see as America's inherent racism.This part of the book talks a lot about "White Privilege." If you don't know what that is, basically it's that feeling that society is designed to fit you, and that causes you to take a lot of things for granted, and to not be sensitive to other people's feelings.My whole problem with Dr. Tatum's point of view is that it focuses on the external - you become "black" not because of who you are, but because of how other people treat you, and that's a really bad way to get to self discovery and identity, in my opinion.
While I liked reading about the development of racial and ethnic identity, I was disappointed the book didn't focus on education. (The title suggests more!) I still learned a lot, just not what I expected!
Everyone should read this book
The book, which I strongly recommend to all Americans, looks at what it means to live in a racist society, discusses the idea of privilege, explores the process of racial identity development, and seeks to understand how racial identity impacts the way that people interact in our society.
While much of the book focuses on development of racial identity in children, there is also significant discussion of the role of race on the college campus (Dr. Tatum is a professor and college administrator).Dr. Tatum shows that students from minority groups face a variety of challenges on college campuses.
It's good for them to do that, at least for awhile.I am retired now, but I can recall uneasily wondering, at first, whether I was doing something wrong when my Black kids would all land together in the same group, when group work was self-selecting.
So by the time I read this book, I had the pieces, and Tatum helped me put them in the right places for a better picture.Turns out that when Black kids have what Tatum calls an "immersion experience" it improves their self esteem.
Now it makes more sense to me.This book is a classic must-read for teachers for all the right reasons.
One of the biggest questions it asks is, "What is it about the curriculum and culture of academic opportunity within the school that reinforces the notion that academic excellence is a largely White domain?" The question itself is difficult to be confronted with..one that I instinctively want to defend & deny, but with a quick survey of my classroom, it simply cannot be.
On a personal level, it forced me to confront & take responsibility for my own complicity.
I’m so happy I got the updated version from the library because her comments on current events were solid.
It was great she had interviewed/shared journals from this group- I’m always on the lookout for thoughts from people who share a similar experience to mine.
Young people are giving me so much hope :) I’m bringing that up because I want to highlight that the author does an excellent job of giving you concrete examples to explore throughout the book and does an excellent job of encouraging you to see for yourself or remind yourself what’s going on in the world.
When I read "Cry the Beloved Country" years ago, a line stuck out - "I have one great fear in my heart, that one day when they are turned to loving, they will find we are turned to hating." It is such a sad reflection on race relations, but it's also a view that is justifiable in light of all the horrible things that have been said and done to people of color.Beverly Daniel Tatum has a more optimistic view of what is possible in this country.
Although Dr. Tatum is an expert on race relations and racial identity, she writes in a manner that is easy for non-specialists to understand.Our library has invited Dr. Tatum to come and speak to the Lynchburg community next March, and I look forward to meeting her in person.
This book presents the basics of race relations in the United States and racial identity development.
While I tend to prefer meatier books in terms of research, the anecdotal evidence and case studies are powerful.
Tatum has written a well-researched, unapologetic book that explains the realities of living as a member of a minority group in the United States.
While the book is largely centered on Black-White relations, she also points out that most people are both victims of oppression and beneficiaries of the oppression of others.
I have no idea if this book is dated, but I found that it was, surprisingly, a page turner.
This book is fast to read in part because of the engaging writing and content, in part because it prompts you to ask yourself questions and consider scenarios, and in part because it is written in short sections and subsections.
This book focuses on continuing issues of race and privilege in the US, but it also allowed me to consider all sorts of assumptions I need to question.
This book is very worthy of a read.
I am currently taking a graduate course on the psychology of race. I was feeling a bit overwhelmed and angry about some of the journal articles we were reading. Then I found this book. Ms. Tatum delivers the same information in a way that is not offensive to anyone, even if you don't agree with everything she says. I highly recommend this book for anyone who is interested in racial identity development or interracial understanding.
