https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7728889-the-diviners
A bit on the slow side, but for the most part I really enjoyed this!
I thought it was great how all of these seemingly separate stories intersected, I just wish it'd happened a little bit faster.
I also loved how scary and gory this book was.
And I really appreciated that this book was satisfying all on its own!
We do get some groundwork for what's to come, but I was quite happy with how this installment wrapped up.Side note, I actually listened to the audiobook for most of this, and I LOVED it!
I'll be listening to Lair of Dreams very soon here!
This book makes me feel so nostalgic for life in the 1920s New York which is weird because I wasn’t even alive for that decade why do I miss it? Seriously. Is it just me or do other people get homesick from books? You miss the comforting feeling of the characters and the world created by the author and wish to stay long after you turn the last page?The impossible wonder of an era I was never a part of still snags at me and I can't wait to read the rest of the series!  So, what's this book?  It’s
Bray is also an incredible writer with a good eye for lyrical text and the audiobook has such a way of enhancing the spine-chilling and ghostly atmosphere she’s crafted.I'm also hard-put to think of a time period that better captures the eeriness and thrill of a roaring mystery than 1920s New York; the stark contrast between the stately stasis of a respectable house and the desperate wildness of the speakeasy and the Ziegfeld girls is the perfect stage on which to turn a story on its head.
THIS WAS SO DAMN GOOD!Listening on audiobook was such a great experience. I loved the writing and the story, oh so chilling! GIMME MORE :)
Let's just say I'll never be able to use the word "naughty" ever again without giving myself nightmares.This book also had a huge cast of characters that we are just getting to know - and I love each and every one!
This did help give us a more in-depth view of each character, but it also made it easy to put down the book and pick up a new one only 100 pages from the end.As for the lingo, I thought it was the cat's pajamas at first!
But having a new slang word on almost every page got a tad much.
It's such a hard novel to categorise, part historical fiction, part supernatural, part murder mystery, with just the slightest touch of romance.Evie O'Neill is a fabulous character who experiences a great deal of development throughout.
One of my favourite elements of the novel is the way in which Bray portrays and develops Evie's relationships with the other characters.
Libba Bray breathes magic into this city at the height of its glory whilst also showing the darker side of America at this time with the KKK and xenophobia, the amount of research that must have gone into this book is astounding.
:D----------Original Review (10/10/12):OH GOD OH MAN OH GOD OH MAN.So yeah, basically this book left me like this:I've been a die-hard Libba Bray fan ever since the fabulous Gemma Doyle books.
Libba Bray masterfully blends the realism of the historical era with the horror/fantasy elements––just as she did with the Gemma Doyle books and the Victorian era.
(Forgive me if I'm mixing up character's names, it's been a while since I read this or Gemma Doyle.) But even so, I found the characters to be well-developed.I found Evie to be a very likable main character.
I mean, I had stars in my eyes and everything…To be frank, I went into this knowing I’d be completely smitten with Sam Lloyd because I saw some beautiful fanart (by one of my favorite artists)— and I was certainly not disappointed with his first appearance in the book.“You can’t blame a fella for kissing the prettiest girl in New York, can you, sister?” Sam’s grin was anything but apologetic.Evie brought up her knee quickly and decisively, and he dropped to the floor like a grain sack.
Because it turns out, Memphis really has almost nothing to do with the Naughty John story at all, Sam and Evie’s other friend Theta very little, and as The Diviners is already a fairly long read, following the stories of these secondary characters when it turns out their stories have almost no bearing on the actual plot feels like a chore.Maybe I wouldn’t feel the way I do if certain sections of the book weren’t just so darn good that I just couldn’t get enough of certain chapters.
I'm obviously late to the party, but I so enjoyed this one! The audiobook took the story to an entirely other level for me; the narrator was fabulous and did so many voices in a unique way without sounding cheesy or lame. Definitely excited to continue on with the series and look forward to answering some of the questions that were left open here.
"Ms. Bray, I have an idea for your next book.""Yes?""Well, the researcher who worked on The Poisoner's Handbook: Murder and the Birth of Forensic Medicine in Jazz Age New York left some notes lying in the library, and someone I know swiped 'em.""Perfect!
Someone took their cardboard cut-outs from the "Young Adult Paper Doll Book" and inserted into the pretty-flapper-Great Gatsby-land.
(hide spoiler)] When I got to the second young man romancing our heroine (oh, it's not a spoiler--this is a modern young adult book), I was ready to stab myself.I tend to read for three things: plot, character and language.
Well it is worth it indeed..with some search of New York pictures from the 20s -and recently watching Buz Luhrmann's The Great Gatsby- the experience got much better..I was already used to the slang and was glad that Mr. Will hates it like me :)Speaking of Mr. Will Fitzgerald , Evie's Uncle ..He reminded me much of Dan Brown's Robert Langdon with all of his knowledge of Occult and Symbols..and the creepy rich supernatural history of US.He is asked to help solving a mystery of creepy horrible murders...and Evie's special supernatural talent helping him..That's a good story to catch my fully attention.And it was getting darker, much complected..It's really worth it..I'm enjoying it so far..
I listened to the prologue and had to stop it and take a break because I was already so creeped out, and there were definitely other parts that I read in the middle of the night that made me want to turn my lights on and check under my bed.
This book definitely has a creepy vibe and is such an amazing, atmospheric listen.
Furthermore, knowing that most characters had powers but they were all too scared to tell each other also got pretty old.
Also, Evie, the main character, could get pretty tiresome.
I wouldn’t go so far as to say extremely enjoyable but I was hooked nonetheless.
🤦‍♀️*Long Sigh* That’s where our “lovely” heroine, Evie O’Neil comes in.
The childish and “rebellious” MC with her painfully annoying slangs and over the top perkiness that I just found too too too annoying!!She was selfish, desperate for attention, so desperate that even she was aware of it, though she wore it like a badge of honour, and so utterly exasperating to the point where I genuinely started dreading coming to her parts because I couldn’t take it anymore.
But something in me really wanted to finish this book, whether I ended up loving it or hating it, so I finally decided to sit somewhere quiet and immerse myself in this story a month ago.The reason why I couldn’t finish it those two previous times is that this is a historical fiction story, and although there are fantasy elements, it FEELS historical and the characters use language that confused me at times.
Many 400+ page books feel like they barely tell a story or they barely show anything new, but this is quite an original work that must have taken the author a long time to write.
“Naughty John, Naughty John, does his work with his apron on. Cuts your throat and takes your bones, sells ‘em off for a coupla stones.”  boy this shit was so good !! i die !!. Everyone kept telling me this series was the cats meow and I JUST DIDN'T LISTEN. And I should have, it's positutely swell !!(okay enough lingo references) but the first thing I LOVED about this book was the setting. It's set in 1920s America and boy that is just such a fun setting to play around in. And Libba Bray defini
And I should have, it's positutely swell !!(okay enough lingo references) but the first thing I LOVED about this book was the setting.
probably my favourite this about this book was the characters oh my godd I literally love them all.
Sam was set up for something really interesting at the end which is nice, but I wasn't feeling him for a good part of the book.
I would never read this series any other way.I am SO EXCITED to continue this series I just loved this opening book so much.
It was spooky, with interesting characters placed in an awesome setting and i loved it.
Like I’m going to tell you anything about him besides he is messed up in the head and he needs the actual Lord and not the Lord he thinks he knows.There are other characters that play a big part even though they aren’t mentioned as often, like Blind Bill Johnson who has a power of his own, The Proctor Sisters who seem to know a lot about magic and what is to come, a gentleman named Arthur who seems to be too interested in Mabel, a crow that keeps bothering Memphis, and a girl with green eyes.SO WHAT IS THIS STORY ACTUALLY ABOUT?Young adults finding out why they have some supernatural power and murders… lots and lots of murders… and ghost… and murders… murders… This book is so well rounded and the setting is absolutely to die for.
The heroine was intolerably stupid, annoying, attention-seeking, and inconsiderate. She grated on my nerves so badly, I can barely bring myself to read on. I find Libba Bray's writing style for this book completely unreadable. I have a strong suspicion she read a reference guide to using slang during the Flapper era and made it her personal goal to use as much speakeasy language as possible in every single spoken sentence.
Really enjoyed this! Loved the characters and the setting, but the mystery wasn’t the best I’ve ever read!
We are the Diviners. We have been and we will be. It is a power that comes from the great energy of the land and its people, a realm shared for a spell, for as long as is needed. We see the dead. We speak to restless spirits. We walk in dreams. We read meaning from every held thing. The future unfolds for us like the navigators map, showing seas we have yet to travel.”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐Buddy read with the wonderful Eli :*I guess I’m a little bit disappointed. I had way too high expectations for this
The future unfolds for us like the navigators map, showing seas we have yet to travel.”  Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Buddy read with the wonderful Eli :*I guess I’m a little bit disappointed.
The story itself is about Evie (and some other characters like Memphis, Jericho, Sam and Theta) who moves to New York after an “accident” in her hometown.
Then there were so many POVs. I was so confused sometimes because the author jumped through the characters like crazy and sometimes I thought i was reading the POV from Evie but then it was someone different.
Re-read 10/3/17: Finished this re-read in one day because I AM OBSESSED OMG.
I love this book so damn much.
I forgot how much of a crush I have on Theta.
So excited to re-read Lair of Dreams now and THEN THE THIRD BOOK IS FINALLY OUT AKZJUSAJBDUAJSRe-read 8/26/15: WOW.
I listened to this on audiobook as a reread in preparation for Lair of Dreams and my review has shot up from a 4 to a 5 out of 5 stars.
I can't wait to read Lair of Dreams now.
Original review 10/14/14: I am pos-i-tute-ly spooked!
This book was so creepy.
I loved it.
I would feel really bad about about not finishing this if I weren't so overwhelmingly bored by it.I LOVE (most of) Libba Bray's books, so the decision to not finish this book did not come without much deliberation.
But 150 pages in, I stopped caring about the plot, Evie had become very repetitive and irritating, and the clichés turned me off.Perhaps someday I'll pick it up again, but I can't force myself to read 400+ more pages of this right now.
(Also it took me 5 days just to read those 150 pages.
Bad sign.)
“Naughty John, Naughty John, does his work with his apron on. Cuts your throat and takes your bones, sells 'em off for a coupla stones.”  WELL I'LL BE DAMNED. GOODNESS GRACIOUS where do I start? Because HOLY SMOKES that was the CAT'S MEOW!! GOLLY, I was completely blown away. Some parts in this book just gave me the flying HEEBIE-JEEBIES. And other parts of the book made me laugh as if I was high on GIGGLE WATER!!......ok modern century talk now and 1920s lingo aside, The Diviners, was a well
And other parts of the book made me laugh as if I was high on GIGGLE WATER!!......ok modern century talk now and 1920s lingo aside, The Diviners, was a well crafted and spontaneous 'hotsy-totsy' of a novel.
I think I wanted the book to go in one direction and was expecting it to go that way, but it actually went into another direction that took me by surprise.
I actually started this book a couple years ago and put it down because I really wasn't into it.
She was tired of being told how it was by this generation, who’d botched things so badly. They’d sold their children a pack of lies: God and country. Love your parents. All is fair. And then they’d sent those boys, her brother, off to fight a great monster of a war that maimed and killed and destroyed whatever was inside them. Still they lied, expecting her to mouth the words and play along. Well, she wouldn’t. She knew now that the world was a long way from fair. She knew the monsters were rea
And then they’d sent those boys, her brother, off to fight a great monster of a war that maimed and killed and destroyed whatever was inside them.
She knew now that the world was a long way from fair.
One thing's for sure: this book is nothing like any I've read before.
Despite the marketing, The Diviners is not a single pov novel - it follows a cast of characters, all with points of view.
And with all these characters comes a great deal of theme work.
I'm excited for the found family potential and for all the baited character development.
somewhere between a 3.5 and 4 i don’t know ratings are hard ok??
This book is set in the 1920’s when prohibition was in full swing and you couldn’t swing a cat without hitting a bobbed haired flapper girl.
Evie (said flapper) was sent away from her fake Ohio town of Zenith to New York City, after a party game showing off her divining power angered the wrong people, to stay with her Uncle Will.
The writing was beautiful and I really REALLY liked the characters, especially Evie.It was a bit slow to start but when it picked up I just HAD TO FINISH IT.World building was great and plot was pretty alright as well.
I think it mostly had to do with the twisted version of the Bible and the really intense insane occult that was a pretty big part of plot events.
It was just a little too sacrilegious for me and while I realize that it's not poking at Christianity but rather a super twisted version of it, it felt like it was closer to it.
4.5 / 5 stars  “Naughty John, Naughty John, does his work with his apron on. Cuts your throat and takes your bones, sells 'em off for a coupla stones.” The Diviners is set in 1926, New York City. It's an atmospheric book that throws you into the most wonderful time, it's filled with speakeasies, showgirls, prohibition, 20's slang and introduces you to such a colourful cast of characters. The main character Evie O'Neill has a special talent and is forever in trouble, always too big and too much
When her parents send her off to stay with her uncle, the owner of The Museum of American Folklore, Superstition, and the Occult, she's estatic—because he lives in the big city, New York City.But her secret talent has gotten her into more trouble than not, and she's determined to hide it from her uncle, not trusting his obsession with the weird and paranormal.Evie's an interesting character, by no means perfect.
It was set up perfectly for the rest of the series, although I think it will be hard to top the antagonist character of this book, Naughty John.
4.5 starsGuys, this book is NOT over-hyped. It really is fantastic. It's one of those rare books that actually made me feel genuinely creeped out.Great characters, phenomenal atmosphere (you can tell Libba Bray did a ton of research) and just overall engaging story.Highly recommended!Full review to come.
I thought about it, and the thing she likes to do is take Jesus' words, twist them, and put them in the mouth of an evil character in order to try to point out the inherent ~evilness~ of Christianity or something.
Ms. Bray seems incapable of writing more than ten pages at a time without hitting the reader over the head with her own personal beliefs.
I've only ever read the Gemma Doyle trilogy before this, but through that reading and seeing reviews for her other books, I think this is a pattern in Ms. Bray's writing.
I am doing a big project in my house: Reading the ever-increasing stack of ACTUAL books that is piling up next to my bed!
The main storyline was resolved really well, and there's a setup (albeit a bit TOO involved at the end) for the next one that definitely made me want to keep reading!I guess my only wish is that the book had been NOT Young Adult.
I didn't really get that when I went into it, and even though the lead girl was 17, I honestly feel like the book would have been a bit more effective had she just aged it up and made it more complex and grittier.
