https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23020954-the-saint-fiacre-affair
In this novel Inspector Maigret returns to the village of his childhood and uncovers a very sordid murder plot that has been arranged in such a way the police are powerless to act against the murderer. The writing is excellent, as always, thick with atmosphere, and there is a brilliant 'stand off' with a revolver around a circular table in a chateau near the end of the book.
***1/2.Maigret hasn’t visited his home region since attending his father’s funeral many years ago.
He makes it to Saint-Fiacre on the evening before the appointed day.
He makes his way to the church at the 7:00 service, only to find about five people in attendance.
The only person he recognizes is the Countess of Saint-Fiacre, who is up at the rail kneeling after taking communion.
As she goes back to her pew, she opens her missal and reads from it while still hiding her face in her hands.
The Countess is no longer rich; most of her properties have been sold off to pay debts and the rest are mortgaged heavily.
Tuttavia l’enigmatica profezia contenuta in una lettera anonima arrivata al dipartimento di polizia di Parigi si avvera.Soprattutto il caso è anomalo perché Maigret funge non da investigatore quanto da spettatore: il suo animo è in subbuglio, il passato gli torna in mente e lo sommerge, mentre la realtà purtroppo cozza inconciliabilmente con i ricordi della giovinezza, provocando nel commissario un malessere che lo annichilisce.La conclusione finale, dove i possibili colpevoli sono riuniti a cena nel castello alla presenza di Maigret, costituisce una scena magistrale, in cui le meschinità, le colpe e i desideri nascosti che potrebbero giustificare l’omicidio da parte dei convitati vengono a galla, grazie all’iniziativa di uno dei personaggi che veste, al posto del commissario, i panni dell’investigatore, mostrando al contempo i protagonisti così come sono: tante figure meschine, pavide e banali.Un giallo dal fascino misterioso come l’atmosfera brumosa della campagna di Francia in cui è ambientato.
Punteggio pieno per questo romanzo (finora il secondo su tredici) in cui Maigret è alle prese con un caso dalle dinamiche atipiche; in primo luogo perché l'omicidio fulcro della vicenda "tecnicamente" non prevede un colpevole, in quanto apparentemente non esiste assassino o arma del delitto convenzionale; motivo per cui l'ispettore è più spettatore che investigatore.
Come se non bastasse, la cena finale al castello è ridondante di così tanti spunti in così poche pagine (i dialoghi, l'alcol, il piede sotto al tavolo, il conto alla rovescia, i moventi…) da renderla una perla di assoluto valore nell'ampio panorama dei gialli/noir di ogni tempo.
Il miglior racconto di Maigret finora in ordine cronologico. L'ambientazione nel piccolo paese e nel castello unita alla descrizione dei personaggi, alcuni dei quali degni dei migliori gialli. Una caratterizzazione mi ha colpito: "Era un altro uomo. Era esasperato. E come tutte le persone deboli e miti poteva essere di una ferocia inaudita."Best Maigret's novel so far.
Své na tom bezesporu udělalo filmové zpracování s fantastickým Rowanem Atkinsonem, díky kterému jsem si k postavě udělal vztah ještě před vůbec prvním čtením.
Oba příběhy ("Případ Saint-Fiacre" a "Maigret a vzpurní svědkové") jsou báječné.
Pominu-li skutečnost, že se v případech řeší vraždy, chybí v knihách dnes už tolik obnošená explicitní agresivita a popis zvrácených nechutností.
Oba příběhy mají zhruba po sto stranách a autorovi se do rozsahu podařilo natěsnat více, než se jiným podaří na pětinásobném rozsahu.
Ještě dlouho ve mě bude přítomno kouzlo z ryzího vypravěčského umu Georgese Simenona.
A často sáhnu po dalších jeho knihách.
A short take:I loved this Maigret novel.
His reaction to ending up in his home village was believable, and his impressions and thoughts provide little, tantalizing peeks into his history.
The final scene in the dining room is absolutely fantastic, almost Gothic in its portrayal and delivery.
Highlights:* All of Maigret's musings.
Normally confident and direct in his actions, he is completely put off his game by being in his hometown.* The fact that Maigret doesn't play a big role in this mystery except as an observer; a fact which he himself recognizes.
* That last scene is brilliant.
Neste caso, por exemplo, curiosamente, o próprio Maigret atua mas pouco faz para a solução final do mistério.Georges Simenon (1903 – 1989), belga, é um fenômeno de produção literária, com mais de 400 livros publicados, dos quais 75 romances protagonizados pelo Comissário Maigret – também presente em 28 contos.
Existe ainda, pela L&PM, uma caixa com dois volumes com todos os contos de Maigret.Atualmente, Maigret está sendo reeditado pela Companhia das Letras.Referências para esta edição> Autor: George Simenon (1903 – 1989)> Lançamento no original francês (L'Affaire Saint-Fiacre): 1932> Publicação no Brasil: 2006, na 4ª edição, pela L&PM> Tradução: Raul de Sá BarbosaReferências para todas as obras com Maigret1.
Maigret goes back to the place of his childhood to find his old familiar home become mishappen and unrecognizable by murder, blackmail, threats and fraud, OR so he thought! Its only in the post-climactic scene when sipping Calvados, he realises that much water has passed through his familiar childhood haunts, and people have changed in their own indeterminate ways that he can recognise his home anymore! And that speaks volumes, in my opinion. My Rating - 4/5
In the 1932 novel  The Saint-Fiacre Affair (also published as Maigret Goes Home, Maigret on Home Ground and Maigret and the Countess), Detective Chief Inspector Maigret returns to his birthplace, Saint-Fiacre in northern France, the town where Maigret’s father was the estate manager for a count.
But, of course, Maigret knows differently, despite the Countess long having had a weak heart.
As in Agatha Christie’s 1950 novel, A Murder Is Announced, the murderer announces the crime beforehand.
Did Dame Agatha glen the idea from Simenon?
And not to take away from Dame Agatha, but The Saint-Fiacre Affair proves just as entertaining — especially the shocking ending.
Georges Simenon's stolid Inspector Maigret feels all the feelings in this outing, but someone else solves the murder -- and the book ends without explaining its central gimmick.
Maigret knows this village well because it's the one where he grew up, the son of the estate manager for the Count of Saint-Fiacre.
The count is long dead, the countess is old and Maigret has decided to go home to investigate a mysterious note sent to the police warning that a murder will occur at the early-morning mass on a particular day.
Magníficamente escrito, es un caso peculiar, en el que Maigret juega un papel secundario casi de testigo en el desarrolo de los acontecimientos.
Maigret viaja al pueblo en el que pasó su infancia y se encuentra con la ruina moral, espiritual y material de los Condes de la zona.
Una nota llega a la policía anunciando que alguine morirá durante la primera Misa de Difuntos.
Maigret asiste y, efectivamente, la Condesa muere sin que haya una causa aparente.La investigación posterior permitirá la redención del Conde que encabezará el cortejo mortuorio con una "sonrisa confiada" y sin vestir de luto al no poderse permitir el nuevo traje.
Wow! A Maigret I didn't like?! It might have been the translation, but I found it difficult to keep characters straight, especially in thoughts and conversations. Also, except for the dead woman and the innkeeper, all were male, so pronouns gave no clues. But I did like the return of Maigert to his home village and the glimpses of his boyhood. Funny thing is, I saw a French TV adaption of this story years ago, really liked it, and was looking forward to reading the original. C'est la vie.
One of my favourite Maigrets. He back in his home village (where his father was estate manager for decades) for only the second time in 30 years, after a warning that a crime will be committed at the first Mass on all-saints' day. The picture created of the isolated village in winter, the insulated villagers, and the primitive life-style, is memorable. As well as the murder in church, and the case to be solved ....
This is a short well written murder mystery which took place in a very small village where the inspector grew up. Since he lives in Paris his presence in the village is tolerated but not really celebrated. So you have a need to solve a murder and at the same time a searching for the inspector's own identity. Who is he a child of the village or a brilliant crime solver. Have fun
This is number 13 in the Maigret series, and was written in 1932. A tragedy (aren't they all), but with a twist. There was a murder, but no criminal act was perpetrated. Some show great strength while others are despised for their weakness and cunning. Maigret, as always, shows great empathy with the characters, and exhibits his usual humanity.
Had high hopes for a Georges Simenon novel, famous detective and all that. Just couldn't get on with it - had four attempts to continue reading it but I finally gave up. Tedious! Too many exclamation marks! How irritating!
MAIGRET GOES HOME (1959) by Georges Simenon is one of the essential works from this master writer. Here Maigret has gotten a note saying there will be a murder committed during the first mass at a church in a small town. Nothing else. But the town is where he grew up and Maigret decides to return and sit through the All Soul’s Day mass. Nothing happens during the ceremony but when mass is over, the old Countess de Saint-Fiacre sits dead in her seat. There is no evidence of an actual murder but
Here Maigret has gotten a note saying there will be a murder committed during the first mass at a church in a small town.
But the town is where he grew up and Maigret decides to return and sit through the All Soul’s Day mass.
Nothing happens during the ceremony but when mass is over, the old Countess de Saint-Fiacre sits dead in her seat.
Margret, out of his jurisdiction and with nothing to provide as evidence beyond the note, has to stand by while events work themselves out about him.
very gripping Maigret novel, with Maigret himself being mainly an observer. Simenon here comes out as rather too pro-aristocratic, but that doesn't detract from how good a read this is
Nu stiu de ce, dar romanele lui Georges Simenon nu ma atrag. Maigret este greu digerabil ca personaj din punctul meu de vedere. Imi e antipatic, ii lipseste jovialitatea lui Poirot. Stilul lui Simenon se apropie foarte mult de stilul americanilor care scria potboilers. Propozitii concise, dialoguri pline de intelesuri ascunse, personaje meticuloase, extrem de rationale.
Neste caso, por exemplo, o próprio Maigret atua mas, curiosamente, pouco faz para a solução final do mistério.Georges Simenon (1903 – 1989), belga, é um fenômeno de produção literária, com mais de 400 livros publicados, dos quais 75 romances protagonizados pelo Comissário Maigret – também presente em 28 contos.
Por sinal, ótimas capas, criadas sempre a partir de imagens do fotógrafo Harry Gruyaert.Esta série da Companhia das Letras, já com quatroze títulos em novembro de 2016, oferece uma boa apresentação para a obra de Simenon.
Diffidate dell'aristocrazia di provincia Un'irrilevante informativa di un comando di provincia porta
Não apenas por ser ligeiro e fazer uma caminha fofa para a temporada de natação entre os clássicos, que é o que aí vem com a queda do Verão, mas por ser inteligente, bem escrito e, acima de tudo, ter a qualidade de não se preocupar demasiado com o crime: a morte de uma velha e devassa condessa que morre de ataque cardíaco ao ver uma nota escrita dentro do seu missal, na missa dos Finados (a ironia).
Ao avançar a corrida da leitura, Maigret amansa e vai sendo jogado para segundo plano, de tal modo que no fim nem é ele que resolve o crime numa daquelas cenas teatrais à Poirot, numa sala de jantar fechada do mundo, onde podem coabitar os suspeitos entre vinho e discursos.
So far I have enjoyed returning to one of my favourite literary detectives and this book; I am reading them in order; previously fans could read them only in part when and if reprinted or buying older copies via the internet.This is a typical Maigret novel with his usual busybody investigations asking questions repeatedly of any witnesses and potential suspects.
The author therefore helps us question with the police officer our own disappointments, values and memories from our earlier years both in terms of people and places.The book also shows how the experience challenges Maigret as we see him give full reign to others to provide justice where the law couldn't.An interesting story on many levels and one which cements Simenon's place in crime fiction.
Father's buried there, but that's not why Maigret turns up just in time for All Hallows Day mass.
No, he's recieved an anonymous letter saying there will be a crime committed in the church that day.
Indeed--Madame la Comtesse is found to have died in her seat at the end of the mass.
More mystery than police procedural this time, as Maigret seems at a bit of a loss as to how to handle the case.
He discovers that things have changed hugely from his childhood days.
Good old Maigret--what would I do with out him?
Maigret tries to get to the bottom of the mystery, and finds himself having to deal with impecunious sons, toy boys, lawyers, crooked estate managers, and corrupted altar boys.
He finds himself outmaneuvered by the son of the dead Countess, and is frequently feeling uncomfortable - heightened by the emotional connections with his birthplace.
In many ways Simenon could have developed the personal history of Maigret in the hamlet of Saint Fiacre more than he did - the few nuggets we get about Maigret's boyhood and how it shaped his character are intriguing but unsatisfying.
The Count of Saint Fiacre (the son of the dead Countess) stages an elaborate dinner party in which the culprit is forced to incriminate himself.
Gli altri elementi che conferiscono spessore sono legati al luogo.
Simenon inserisce non più Parigi o una grande città, ma il piccolo paese di cui Maigret è originario, facendo ripercorrere i primi anni della sua vita con i ricordi legati all'infanzia, al padre e al suo lavoro, alla chiesa; in questi aspetti l'autore conferma la sua maestria nel creare e ricreare sensazioni vivide e intense con poche piccole pennellate (quando entra a casa del sovrintendente o nei dialoghi con il chierichetto).
Je l'ai trouvé fort bein, bien que je n'ai pas tous compris, surtout, pourquoi le meurtrier (ou est ce que c'était quelqu'un d'autre?) envoya à Maigret une mise en garde avec les mots: "je vous annonce qu'un crime sera commis à l'église de Saint-Fiacre pendant a première messe du Jour des Morts".
Je l'ai trouvé aussi difficile à accepter que tous les suspects se laissent rassmebler au chateau à la fin.
Je me demande si Maurice le comte de Saint-Fiacre ne soit pas un portrait de Roger Peyrefitte, (avec des petites amies au lieu de petits amis)?
Est ce que Simenon a connu Roger Peyrefitte?
His curiosity pushes him to travel home where he discovers (view spoiler)[a death without a crime.
Maigret struggles with the reality of being in his old home and finds it difficult to act in is position of Inspector rather than as the son of the former manager of the manor house.
(hide spoiler)]I'm usually a stickler for reading books in order, but I've found that it doesn't make a big difference with this series.
For these last few (thin) volumes, I've requested the next two volumes from the library and then read them in the order that they appear on the hold shelf.
Another entertaining installment in the Inspector Maigret series.
Maigret actually plays very little of a crime-solving role in this book; the chief investigator turns out to be the son of the murdered woman, who has literally been frightened to death by a phony newspaper notice that has been slipped into her missal in church.
These little books are all gems; one can read them in a day (as I did this one) and clear your palate of any residue left over from previous heavy-duty reading (I finished "The Portrait of a Lady" yesterday).
