https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22918050-the-heir
"You know how your mother and I met," Dad began.I rolled my eyes. "Everyone does. You two are practically a fairytale." We've all heard of the term one hit wonder. The singer who blasted out a fantastic, million-pound selling single, but never sold anything else; the actor that was brilliant in that one film, but disappeared off the scene immediately after; the model that did that great campaign, but never modelled again. It's a pretty common thing, to be honest. Sometimes, you also get authors
I could not wait to get hold of the last book and see America and Maxon get their HEA.And then came The One. This is going to sound terrible, but you can feel the utter disinterest in the storyline, the rush to get to the ending and give the readers what they wanted.
At all.But it gave me what I wanted -- America and Maxon got their HEA, and all the other characters were paired off with great love interests and the end came wrapped up in a pretty little bow and glitter.
Fixed the cover
I did a full booktalk for this ages ago..... I FORGOT TO MARK IT AS FINISHED. HERE'S THE BOOKTALK https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GTIIV...
JUST WHEN GILLIAN THOUGHT SHE WAS A FREE ELF
Eady comes across very spoiled and selfish at first glance, but whereas America was wishy-washy and driven by a constant state of indecision, Eady knows what she wants and doesn’t apologize for it.
I don’t think you’d partner up with anyone unless you at least got to reign for awhile.” YES.Eady represents something society either hates or loves.
I didn’t root for Kile as hard as I could because he and Eady were too quick to start making out, so to speak.
I think I loved Maxon a bit more because he was less readable.
Update:What can I say? This book was even better than I hoped it would be. I just absolutely love this series.I can't wait for the next book to come out!---OH MY GOD I JUST FOUND OUT THAT THERE'S GOING TO BE ANOTHER BOOK IN THE SELECTION SERIES I CAN'T STOP SCREAMING I AM SO EXCITED RIGHT NOW OH MY AGSUIDODGFHODPODJF
I think that's because Eadlyn was insufferable and I wanted to punch her EVERYTIME.
Another thing that bothered me was what Ahren did at the end of the book!
I just want to hug him and tell him everything will be alright!So...
characters I liked in this book: Maxon, Kaden, Henri, Ean, Aspen...
America was alright, but I felt her so out of character, maybe that's because she's now the queen and she has really changed (for good).I'll definetly be reading the next book.
Kiera Cass has this thing that I can't stop reading her books!
I once tried to run a mile in seven minutes after hearing some athletes could do it in four but failed spectacularly when a side stitch crippled me about halfway in.Eadlyn has made me hate her in well less than seven minutes…more like seven seconds.
So, apparently Eadlyn and her father Maxon (I see he’s still a bit dim too) get their news from the newspaper.Read this again.THE RULERS OF A NATION GET THEIR NEWS FROM THE NEWSPAPER.News is at least 12 hours old when it is printed.
“I only have one heart, and I’m saving it.” Why do I always finish these books in tears?Okay, so it’s no secret that I loved the Selection books, and I have to admit, that I loved this one too Eadlyn was a character that at times came across as bratty, selfish, and totally full of herself. But then she’d do something that would make me laugh, or something so outrageous whilst totally owning it, and I totally fell in love with her. Sure she was naïve, and her youth worked against her at times, b
Why do I always finish these books in tears?Okay, so it’s no secret that I loved the Selection books, and I have to admit, that I loved this one too Eadlyn was a character that at times came across as bratty, selfish, and totally full of herself.
Sure she was naïve, and her youth worked against her at times, but she also came across as totally real, and it was nice to watch as she learned more real-life stuff, and began to see why having someone to love might not be such a bad thing.
Basically.Update:I'm enthralled, yet confused, with this cover.
Jeez, I don't understand either, can you help me out here?I never thought it's possible to have 35 guys and not be interested in any of them, but that's how I felt while reading The Heir.
While it is obvious which guys Eadlyn prefers at the moment I don't see myself shipping them in the next book.
What I liked in America and Maxon was always their banter and cute scenes, so far none of these happened here.
I feel like these guys are either batshit afraid of Eadlyn or don't care about her at all.
Overall I don't even feel like this edition needed to be written because it really didn't add anything that wasn't already there.Eadlyn the heir to the throne and our leading lady, is a total bitch.
And yeah, I've read snotty characters before and loved them and this just wasn't the case for Eady.
As far as America and Maxon, her parents and the leading characters from the first three books, too me feel completely different than how they were before.
I was so excited to get even just a little taste of them in this book and was again let down.

It's sitting in between a 4.5 and 4 right now, leaning more towards the 4.I actually enjoyed Eadlyn.
I loved that the family played a big role in this book.
I also enjoyed that there's not really a clear front runner for her selection and there's quite a few guys that I think it could be.However, my biggest issue comes with the end.
I know there's still another book to come but I felt this one was very introductory, not much happened, and there were too many loose ends.
I still enjoyed it but not as much as the previous books.
I was going to be queen, and a queen could be many things . . . but vulnerable wasn't one of them.  I have no problem with female characters having an ego. Everyone can have one, right? You can be awesome, and I'll be cool with that. What I hate - what I can't stand, is a person who treats others like shit for no reason, and this beautiful princess named Eadlyn managed to get on my nerves every damn second of my read. Bratty, spoiled and immature doesn't begin to cover it. Quotes a tomar en cu
What I hate - what I can't stand, is a person who treats others like shit for no reason, and this beautiful princess named Eadlyn managed to get on my nerves every damn second of my read.
"Of course, because the only way I could possibly like men is if I bowed down at their feet?"
Lo gracioso de esto es que recuerdo leer que ella no quería ser vista como un premio.
No hay nada remoto a una buena narración.
Y no hay tal cosa como una trama.
“I only have one heart, and I'm saving it.” 3.5/5 starsSo  The Heir  was incredibly entertaining and Eadlyn(what a stupid name) is slightly less annoying than America(which is still too much).This 4th instalment is really cheesy.
Kiera Cass gushed over America's and Maxon's happily ever after relationship.
We get it, they are perfect for each other, soul mates, etc.The protagonist is a strong female character and I like that she kicks ass.
He is so incredibly cute and adorable.I believe that part 4 and 5 of this series are absolutely unnecessary.
The plot was weak and the characters one-dimensional.
I couldn't wait to finally meet Eadlyn Schreave and the rest of Maxon and America's sexy babies.
Although the Selection Series should've ended with The One, I was still pretty hyped about the fourth book, The Heir, because well...
Ahahaaha, I understand why readers disliked Eadlyn Schreave throughout the whole book.
I just wanted to get it over with and finish the book.
I do wish Kiera Cass just ended The Selection Series with The One. Although I am not expectant of the next Selection book to be published, I will read it because Kiera Cass wrote it.
I'm loving Eadlyn's character development so far! Can't wait for the next one!
I mean, a lot of us actually did.What would the funeral for the King and Queen be like?How would America and Maxon's kids look like?Would Celeste have a glamorous funeral?Will Aspen and Lucy get married?What will happen with Marlee?Will The Selection continue or will everything completely change in this book?Having part of those questions answered, I now come to wishing Kiera never published this book and The Crown.
The Heir is book four in the series The Selection by Kiera Cass. I, like so many others, thought this series was going to end with the final book of the trilogy. I was happily surprised when I learned the series would be continued. I have been addicted to these books from the beginning and I loved this new book.It’s been twenty years since the end of the last book. America and Maxon’s first children were twins, Eadlyn and Ahren. Eadlyn was born first so she is the first in line to the throne, T
The Heir is book four in the series The Selection by Kiera Cass.
I, like so many others, thought this series was going to end with the final book of the trilogy.
I have been addicted to these books from the beginning and I loved this new book.It’s been twenty years since the end of the last book.
America and Maxon’s first children were twins, Eadlyn and Ahren.
While trying to find a solution, Maxon and America convince Eadlyn that she needs to have her own selection.
There were a couple of shocking incidents at the end but I also liked the changes I was seeing in Eadlyn.
3.5 stars I could totally understand why many readers think this entire series is a very weak sort of dystopia.
LoL!What I’m trying to say here is that this series, particularly this installment may not have the most complex plot or impressive world building, but it’s completely entertaining and very appealing which I believe is the very purpose of the author and if you read this purely for its entertainment value, I bet you’ll enjoy this too.Was I annoyed at Eadlyn?
Did I think this series is going to be a trilogy?
(refer to above gif)That’s how appealing these books are (at least to me).
official rating 2.5    I have to say I'm really disappointed in this book, the selection was one of my favorite reads of 2014 despite the fact that America is extremely whinny and annoying. But for her daughter, HA! She's just spoiled and mean, for that I have zero tolerance on it. In addition, the plot was extremely dull... Nothing happens. Nevertheless as much as I dislike this book, I would still be reading the next one.   For some reasons this quote annoyed me, if it happened in  Throne of
official rating 2.5   
I have to say I'm really disappointed in this book, the selection was one of my favorite reads of 2014 despite the fact that America is extremely whinny and annoying.
But for her daughter, HA!
She's just spoiled and mean, for that I have zero tolerance on it.
In addition, the plot was extremely dull...
Nothing happens.
Nevertheless as much as I dislike this book, I would still be reading the next one.
For some reasons this quote annoyed me, if it happened in  Throne of Glass  or any other YA books I would have love this.
She's America's daughter and heir to the throne of the ridiculous kingdom of Illéa.The first thing you need to know is how unfair life is for Eadlyn.
Here's what I have to say: I don't know who I am more embarrased of: Me for reading this book, or Eadlyn for being so ridiculous.If you couldn't guess, by that point, I already wanted to DNF this, but I contained myself from doing so because I couldn't believe how hilariously bad this book was.
Those are two incredibly different roles in the world.”Aaaaaaand with her family:“Don’t talk to me like that, Eadlyn.
THIS IS A THING?
I have hope that this one will be good.
AND IT'S NOT JUST ONE MORE BOOK, IT'S TWO MORE BOOKS.
I wasn't totally satisfied with The One, so these next two books better be good.
A part of me feels this series is getting too long.
And the other part of me hopes that this book will redeem the series.SO CONFLICTED I'm interested whose POV it will be in, because apparently it won't be from America's perspective.
(thank goodness.
She gets on my nerves)OH, AND THE COVER.
I wonder if America will be on it still, probably not.
"You can be brave and still be feminine. You can lead and still love flowers. Most importantly, you can be queen and still be a bride."  Highly entertaining, unpredictable, and royally fabulous. This book nailed what a highly enjoyable sequel should be. I like this book as a whole. The only downside I found was Eadlyn's attitude. *smirksI have to admit I had a hard time liking Eadlyn at first because she's bratty, spoiled, and quite obnoxious but as the story went by, I witnessed her remarkable
This book nailed what a highly enjoyable sequel should be.
:)The whole story revolves in the Selection process where Eadlyn chooses a husband out of 35 gentlemen.
The best thing about the book is how you can never predict who among her suitors will win her heart, because you basically live in her POV.
:) But to be honest, I like The Selection series far better than this book.
If you've been a fan of The Selection series, I recommend you to read this sequel.
"I only have one heart, and I’m saving it.”  Blurb: Princess Eadlyn has grown up hearing endless stories about how her mother and father met. Twenty years ago, America Singer entered the Selection and won the heart of Prince Maxon—and they lived happily ever after. Eadlyn has always found their fairy-tale story romantic, but she has no interest in trying to repeat it. If it were up to her, she'd put off marriage for as long as possible.But a princess's life is never entirely her own, and Eadly
My thoughts are all over the place and even though I didn't hate the book, I didn't love it either.The first half of the book was really hard for me to get through because Eadlyn whined the whole goddammit time and she was such a bitch.
I had a hard time liking her even when she got better in the second half of the story.Plus, I was really concerned about what was happening to Maxon and then the thing with America.
I didn't like how Cass wanted us to feel the bound between Eadlyn and Ahren when they had just a few scenes together, no flashbacks and no bounding time with the rest of their brothers.
Jeez Eadlyn.
Around the half-way point, she definitely is less annoying and more tolerable than the first half, but I still had/have a dislike for her.Anyway, back to some more of my thoughts on this book.
I loved seeing the characters from the original trilogy reappear in this book, like Maxon and America and many more.I also loved how, like with the first three books in this series, the book is very quick to get through and it is really easy to read.Now, a major grip I have with this book, and it is that(except for the ones that are from the original trilogy), I felt like none of the relationships in this book had any substance to them.
Is everyone ready for The Bachelor Season 2?Sorry... the Bachelorette.You, yes you! Did you bring the tissues? And the chocolate?"Yes."You! Did you bring the tables for us to deskpalm on?"Yes!"What about you? Did you bring the stress-balls? Just in case?"Yes!!"Did you bring the crackers? For all the adorably cheesy stuff?"Yes!!!"And you. Did you tell everyone to grow their nails out to bite?"Yes!!!!"And I assume we all cleared our schedules?"Yes!!!!!!!!!"Okay... now who brought the book?*crickets*
And the next thrilling installment of "shut up and take my money"Seriously, though, I wasn't expecting a continuation of the series and wouldn't have assumed there was much pretense for another Selection to take place.
Nonetheless, it is interesting to see it from the other side of the coin - "dating" dozens of strangers simultaneously while weighing your personal life against your professional life.Eadlyn will undoubtedly rub people wrong, especially considering how charming and endearing her parents were as characters.
Flawed as she is, Eadlyn is constantly defending herself or justifying actions a man in her position wouldn't need to explain himself over.
