https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/245831.The_Art_of_Memory
Acho que foi na série O Mentalista que ouvi a expressão «palácio da memória» pela primeira vez (qualquer coisa sobre um pato de borracha, numa sala qualquer, para recordar outra coisa qualquer).
Já era um especialista em esquecer coisas nessa altura, mas ainda me conseguia lembrar de ter lido parte dum livro em que Umberto Eco falava sobre mnemotécnica; não sei o nome do livro, nem sobre o que era, mas tem lá aquela história engraçada dum gajo que empregava (?) outro gajo para o lembrar da sua mortalidade (agora há apps para isso).
Ouvi outra vez a expressão na série Hannibal e devo ter procurado um documentário no youtube ou algo semelhante (um sinal de intenções sérias).
This is a fascinating history of the "art of memory"--an imaginary, spatio-visual technique for storing vast amounts of information before the printed page.
When you want to remember something, walk through the "palace" in your memory and look at your sequential displays.
I came to this book after reading John Crowley's strange and memorable 
; the fascinating character Ariel Hawksquill is an adept at the art, having built vast, intricate, and magically potent memory palaces.
I was surprised at the readability of this. But, truthfully, I read it a few months ago and forgot most of what I think about it.
‘The Art of Memory’ confronts the issue head on by telling the story of memory techniques used in classical, Medieval, and Renaissance times.
You need to know where to find the details, rather than remembering them all.By contrast, the classical art of memory involved the use of places (usually buildings) and ‘corporeal similitudes’ (imagined human figures) as shortcuts to the memorisation of knowledge in great detail.
At a time where a scrap of papyrus or sheepskin (the only things to write upon before printing and paper) cost around the equivalent of 20 dollars and a book cost about as much as a new car, today memory was the main medium of everyday knowledge.
People in the middle ages and the renaissance looked upon memory with awe and looked on the art of memory as something bordering on the occult.
If you want to know what the brightest people of the middle ages and renaissance were up to this book is for you.12/25/2017 It is really strange how spooky and occult memory seemed to renaissance magisters.
It has changed the way I read classical and medieval history.This book opened up to me an understanding of an entire discipline dedicated to memory, which I had never discovered previously.
Watching the art of memory develop from a technique that appears to be cumbersome and useless to one that is sleek, efficient, and decidedly modern is fascinating.This book can be a slog.
It's very dense, and at times I just had to put it down because my brain had reached its limit, but the subject matter really kept me going because I found it so darn fascinating.Highly recommended.
The Art of Memory changed the way I'll read books in the future.
It tells the story of the now forgotten art of memory which was practised in ancient times from its beginnings in Ancient Greece up until round about the Enlightenment, when it fell into disuse amongst the educated elite, along with so much else of the wit and wisdom of times past.
Why exactly it works no-one has ever found out, but then the nature of memory itself remains a mystery to this day.Frances Yates writes so beautifully, and the material which she deals in is so very interesting, that this book constitutes a beautiful read from cover to cover.Very highly recommended!
Například Llullovy a Brunovy paměťové kruhy nechápu, protože jsou popsané jen tak, že se v mysli otáčí, ale Yatesová už nenapíše, v čem je praktická výhoda pro uživatele této techniky.
Argument, že to není technická příručka, ale historie určitého vymřelého umění, neberu, protože když nevím, jak se tyto techniky používají, vytvářím mrtvou, popisnou vědu.
Mimochodem sama Yatesová Bruna obdivuje že proti této formě vědy bojoval.Ano, kniha je protkaná občasnými obdivnými výkřiky obdivu k Giordanu Brunovi.Yatesová nejvíce proslula svou tezí, že na rozvoji vědy měla velký podíl hermetická, a tedy okultní tradice.
První kapitola je taky skvělá, protože výborně popisuje klasické, a dodnes živé, zdroje umění paměti.
Závěr: Kniha popisuje umění paměti jako fenomén, a ne jako umění samotné.
Really cool subject matter, I would never have thought about this subject matter as a subject matter, and even cooler is at the center of the subject matter is a mystery, and so you aren't even sure what you are reading about exactly. The beginning of a study, so much untapped into, although also, rather anglo-centric. Maybe some new academic will expand (or maybe has?)this study to include african or asian systems of memory...
There are enough reviews here describing the contents and quality of this book. For me, the best part was the palpable sense of discovery the author conveyed as she began to see how Simonides's artificial memory permeated Renaissance culture and became a hidden strand connecting Thomas Aquinas's Method to Raymond Llull's Art to Giordano Bruno's enigmatic Shadows and Seals and on to Shakespeare's Globe Theatre and Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz's invention of infinitesimal calculus.
I discovered this book when I was at university years ago and it captured my imagination completely. I loved the descriptions of the Memory Theatres in particular and I found it really well written.
Understanding memory has been one of man's greatest interest and achieving the little knowledge we know of our own mind is a great accomplishment as is.Frances A.
Yates explains the history of the 'art of memory' as she calls it, starting from the master of memory himself - Simonides and the unknown author of Ad Herenium.
Giving detailed descriptions of how to go abaout honing one's memory/ I went into this book as a speculator - something in the title and cover drew me in - and came out with in depth knowledge of how to sharpen my memory and most importantly how to integrate it into my daily life.
It is also provides a fascinating look into how the development of scientific method grew out of attempts by Renaissance thinkers to find the great key to all knowledge by blending aspects of the traditional practice of the art with magic, cabalism, astrology, neo-platonism, pseudo-science, and religion.
If you have the time, this book, described as one of the greatest 100 non-fiction books of the 20th century, will provide some great background for understanding what happened in the history of ideas in 17th century Europe and the development of the modern era.
Yates suggests that the talismans in this case were planetary images, perhaps the new instantiation of the imagines agentes (159).The goal of the Hermetic art of memory was the formation of the Magus (161).Raymond Lull is pivotal because he represents a medium in which Renaissance Neo-Platonists chose a medieval figure for their occultic research.
As Yates notes, “the star-images are the ‘shadows of ideas,’ shadows of reality which are nearer in reality than the physical shadows of the lower world” (Yates 213).Several Hermetic Assumptions in Bruno:(1) Man’s mind is in some sense divine and connected to the “star governors” of the world (221).(2) A golden chain connects higher and lower things.Sub-conclusion: the classical art of memory has been transformed to a “vehicle for the formation of the psyche of a Hermetic mystic and magus” (225).
It's not a how-to book, but a history of people who were quite memorious and how the techniques of memory changed over time.
Before the printed word, people were valued for how much they could remember.
If you want to know the basics of these concepts you can get a quick reference on wikipedia or other places on the web by searching for the "art of memory" or "memory techniques".
Once you know the basics you can practice them yourself, right away.
Not many books illuminate a completely different perspective on history.
Even a different view on the influence of memory on history and art.
This is a good introduction to the subject and how widespread the art of memory was up until Leibniz. I felt it lacked a certain context linking the pre-Enlightenment world to our world. For that missing context, try Paolo Rossi's Logic and the Art of Memory: The Quest for a Universal Language.Feels kind of dumb to award it 4 stars, since the writing is far superior to most 21st century academic publications, but star ratings are always going to be a little arbitrary.
What a fascinating work. Groundbreaking history told with a lively voice. Yates pioneered work on the history of mnemonic techniques which were far more influential than was commonly supposed. Essentially a whole area of intellectual history had been ignored for the last three hundred years because its occult connections made it "disreputable" (it's interesting the blinders academics can wear, and always worth remembering).This book has influenced several important writers of fiction in the decades since it was written. John Crowley, obviously, but also Gene Wolfe and Hilary Mantel, off the top of my head.
I found this book a while ago--- through the bibliography in Jonathan Spence's "The Memory Palace of Matteo Ricci", a book I loved (and used to assign to intro World History classes). Dame Frances Yates is a fine writer about the more esoteric side of late-Renaissance and Early Modern Europe (see her "The Rosicrucian Enlightenment"), and "The Art of Memory" is an intriguing account of both the mnemonic arts in 16th-c. Europe and of the way the era imagined ways to describe the world. A fascinating book, and an excellent look into the mind of another era.
This amazing history of the Art of Memory, dating back into the Roman writings of an unknown writer most often associated with Cicero, was absolutely fascinating, and started me down the long and winding road of my love of Giordano Bruno (that John Crowley helped me with). This book has also led me to the wonderful works of Mary Carruthers on medieval memory.
Maybe, a more precise title for the book would be something along the lines of "Art and magic/occult influences on Giordano Bruno and memory"3.
Yates is heavy on the "magic", if you are looking for a say purely scientific and empirical things about Memory I don't think that this is the best book for you, frankly, I loved it for that reason but think that this might be off-putting problem for some people.
(also, I like that it is, in a sense, also a book about magic)
I did get a hang of it towards the middle of the book and by the end of it the reading process turned to be quite enjoyable.
It starts from the ancient Greece and the earliest works on the art that are known to us and finishes in the 17th century when the elements of the art, while still recognisable in human thought, have ceased to be a discipline of its own.
"The Art of Memory" is a history book.
As such, it doesn't go into too many details on how to practice the art itself other than the most recognisable elements.
Yates takes us through the muck at certain points with her innumerable references to arcane Italian, French, and Latin sources, but we emerge at the end with a fascinating notion: that the development of memory was, in and of itself, a method for gathering and storing universal knowledge, thus forming a precursor to the Enlightenment era and, eventually, the invention of computing.
Yates is at times discursive, going so far as to devote an entire chapter to her (still) inchoate theory of the Globe Theatre as the physical representation of an occult memory method developed in the 16th century.
One star is slightly misleading, but I couldn't justify the two.
The topic of this book is endlessly intriguing, but in the hands of this author it became a Sisyphean battle.
Finnegans Wake was a country stroll in comparison.
Every single paragraph of the text oozes with this woman's blatant over-education.
Not her fault, but neither is it mine to feel completely emotionless towards what she's trying to achieve.If you're looking for a direction in which to go about pursuing the techniques discussed, find a manual instead.
This author will only confuse you, and potentially make you hateful towards the subject matter.
Look elsewhere.
Fascinating history of the art of memory. Links up a number of thinkers in refreshing and apparently when this came out, new ways. Some chapters on Lullism and Bruno and the hermetic tradition were a very heavy slog despite being the climax of the author’s most original arguments and I confess to some skimming there. The early chapters through the chapter on Thomas Aquinas were a wonderful survey of mnemotechnics from Greek to medieval European (of course the discussion is limited to the European side of things) history of memory techniques.
Warning: Absolutely don't consider this book if you are interested in the Art of Memory (the actual art, not the book) but didn't read other, modern books or learned at least basic memory techniques or you will be let down.
The book is a historical inquiry of how those techniques evolved and how they affected population, art, etc., but it is a very blurry since there is not much material and the book that were actually preserved are quite hard to understand and lack examples, therefore absolutely impenetrable for a beginner.
What also does not help is the very dry style in which the book is written in - author focuses heavily on names, dates, historical facts which makes some parts quite hard to read.
Quite technical and not at all what I was hoping it would be. Arasse brought me here and did not tell me everything I was up to find. Interesting, though.
It then follows the art of memory as it goes through the ages, eventually becoming some kind of mystic, magical technique.Basically they go and take the idea of the loci and make it so it uses the Signs of the Zodiac.
The man was burned at the stake; a really tragic end to an interesting person.The book seems to go on a few tangents, but the author is pretty good at reining in the story.
These two seem to lend scientific support to the theory of memory.In any case, the book was interesting, but I don't think I will be reading it again.
Percorrendo la storia il libro cita poi come questi metodi di memorizzazione, che a partire da concetti di associazione di immagini e luoghi per fissare le informazioni nella memoria, assumano via via una componente sempre piu' "magica" e "occulta" fino a diventate con Giordano Bruno un autentico "scrigno" che deve essere aperto solo a fronte di studio e applicazione accettando anche una dimensione soprannaturale dei meccanismi utilizzati.
Apprezzabili sono i passaggi attraverso le vicende di Giulio Camillo con il suo "Teatro della memoria", di Pietro Ramo, di Raimondo Lullo e di Robert Fludd che difficilmente sono percorribili e cosi' correlate in altre pubblicazioni.
It's a scholarly investigation of the "art of memory," a technique dating from ancient times in which one memorizes a speech or a series of facts by "placing" the information on various locations in the memory.
For example, you would walk through a building and stop at a pillar here, a shield resting there, and fix the locations in your memory.
Then, you associate what you are trying to memorize with the locations you have fixed in your mind.
I enjoyed reading about the origins of this technique - how masters were said to be able to recite the poems of Homer backwards, or memorize hundreds of names upon a single hearing.
The ancient Greeks, to whom a trained memory was of vital importance, created an elaborate memory system, based on a technique of impressing "locations" and "images" on the mind.
Inherited and used by the Romans, this ars memoria passed into the European tradition, to be revived, in occult form, during the Renaissance, by the remarkable genius, Giordano Bruno.This is the main theme of Frances Yates's unique book, in which she sheds light on such diverse subjects as Dante's "Divine Comedy, " the form of the Shakespearian theatre and the history of ancient architecture.
