https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/339019.In_the_Heart_of_the_Seas
Shmuel Yosef Agnon (1888-1970) won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1966 "for his profoundly characteristic narrative art with motifs from the life of the Jewish people."The book is basically about a group of Jewish men (rabbis mostly) from Poland who decides to go to a pilgrimage to Jerusalem.
I have a feeling that I missed many of the meanings that the allegories are actually representing in real life.The mood of the storytelling that is told by a third person but in the point-of-view of the main protagonist, a man called Hananiah is ethereal and sublime.
I spent most of this picaresque account of a group of Jewish friends attempting to reach Jerusalem on a pilgrimage from the Ukraine trying to figure out why it’s on the 1001 books list.Unfortunately, reading the entry in the 1001 Books book didn’t really enlighten me much.
And, this novel, understandably from a Jewish point of view with its focus on the seemingly unattainable prize of reaching Jerusalem, would have been a common theme among the diaspora when the book was written in 1933.The group of friends who embark on this pilgrimage do so with their only knowledge of Jerusalem coming from their scriptures.
This is a story about a party of men and women who, during the early 19th century, set out from Buczacz in Poland (the author's home town) to go to Jerusalem.
The itinerary they follow is real, but everything is related in a style, somewhere between folktale and scripture, that makes it sound like an allegory.
There are lots of prayers, parables, and miracles; nothing is mentioned by chance; the party finds few physical hindrances (in fact they're welcomed wherever they go) but overcome spiritual obstacles.
However, it's told in a smooth style that makes it easy to read.
Solo per la mia inadeguatezza non sono stata capace di apprezzare questo libro, di cui ho comunque percepito la preziosità e la complessità.
Il mondo ebraico appare difficile e distante, occorre un bagaglio culturale non indifferente e una profonda conoscenza delle Scritture, dei riti, dei significati che stanno dietro ogni gesto dei protagonisti di questa storia corale che narra del viaggio di un gruppo di ebrei della Galizia polacca verso Israele.
Correda il volumetto un apparato di note che rimanda ai passi biblici citati nel testo, oltre che un glossario prezioso per avvicinarsi alla cultura ebraica.
Comunque resta un testo affascinante.
Sa riannodare i fili di una piccola storia tra quelle numerose narrate dai personaggi e che rendono Nel cuore dei mari anche un gioco di aneddoti fiabeschi sentiti dire e ricordati, uno dentro l'altro, uno di seguito all'altro, raccontati e ascoltati intorno al fuoco serale, accovacciati, nelle pause tanto attese di un lungo viaggio.
E' proprio per poter svelare il travisamento e scongiurare l'oblio che Hanania si perde tra la folla di Kushta la Grande, Istanbul?
(Title should actually show: In the Heart of the Seas.)Interesting book by Nobel Prize winner, Shmuel Yosef Agnon. Mr. Agnon deals with the clash between traditionalism in the Jewish faith and modern dealings in the faith and the conflict with traditional members of the Jewish faith and society as a whole. Parablistic story of a group of Russian Jews leave all of their earthly possessions behind as they journey to Israel...the Promised Land...to partake of the higher things. Some extremely interesting things in the book, from a cultural point of view. Quick read.
A short and sweet story about a group of zionists who make their way from Poland to Israel before Israel existed. It gives a clear insight into the mentality and fervent belief that drives this group to travel into the unknown and to brave the storms and adventures of such a long journey. The language is stylised and formal as befits such a religious group and it feels like an excellent charcoal sketch than a full colour oil painting but it is very effective and well written. A book that shows a great economy with words.
This is a mystical tale from a master of Jewish scripture, I read it in one sitting, I will return and re read it with deep interest. At one level it is a travel pilgrimage to Jerusalem by a group of Rabbis, at another level it is the journey of the wandering Jews, in exile, to the new Israel, yet another level, at is the spiritual alchemy of the soul to the Kingdom of God. As a Christian I have studied some scripture, which helps appreciate this treasure of a story.
Un viaggio un po' particolare quello che ho scoperto in questo libricino. Attirata dal titolo, mi son ritrovata a navigare su una nave un po' speciale e visitato luoghi lontani nel tempo e nello spazio e ho fatto conoscenza di Hanania, colui che ha «girato mezzo mondo e superato tante prove».
I want to read this book
very gentle
