https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/533690.The_Magic_of_Oz
A lazy good-for-nothing inhabitant of the Land of Oz stumbled upon a magic work which transforms anything and anybody into anything and anybody.
Frank Baum was milking the popularity of the series for what is was worth.
The rest was spent on fairly unexciting happenings.This is one of the weakest book of the series which barely made it to 3 star rating range.
Still it is a decent read which does show (occasionally) why the series was one of the most popular and beloved children read in the early twentieth century.
Not the best Oz book but not the worst, either. The plot is a little scattershot and it's difficult to care much about the protagonists' goals (finding a birthday present for Ozma). It also peters out a little at the end.There's still plenty of the usual Oz magic on display, though, and I did enjoy it, despite its flaws, so I don't want to be too harsh.
you wrote a whole book about looking for birthday presents for Ozma?), my favorite villain (Ruggedo all the way!
(Although, as I remembered, her pink brains are back; Baum seems to have [conveniently?] forgotten that he had the Wizard replace them with transparent brains to make her more humble.)I wish Trot and Cap'n Bill retained more of their old character from Scarecrow in Oz; they've been subsumed a little into the sort of general spunky-but-nondescript-human-in-Oz persona, which is too bad.
Not the silly unicorn or old favorites Trot and Cap'n Bill or even Ruggedo.
Cuando era niña vi la caricatura del Mago de Oz y por eso recordaba esta historia con cariño, por eso decidí leer la novela gráfica, pero esta paso sin pena ni gloria.
Por eso cuando decidí leer el libro no esperaba mucho y debo decir que me sorprendió encontrar el encanto que no encontré en la novela gráfica y eso hizo darme cuenta porque es un clásico.
Quizá lo único que no me hizo ponerle las 5 estrellas es que al principio me costo encontrar el ritmo, pero fue lo único malo que encontré.
Free download available at Project Gutenberg.
Me leí una edición ilustrada muy bonita, no aparece aquí en goodreads así que decidí tomar este libro como referencia para poder escribir mi opinión. Me gustó muchísimo la historia, sabía muy poco de ella por las películas y algunos programas de televisión en donde hacen algunas referencias a este libro, pero adentrarme ya bien a la historia fue una aventura fantástica!!!
Well, this one wasn’t a favorite. I enjoyed it in 6th grade when I read it the first time, but by and large I’d rate it on par with DotWiz. While there are parts of the book, particularly those segments focused on the Magic Isle and the Magic Flower, that are wonderful...there’s a lot of recycled stuff, such as our good friend Ruggedo and the party at Emerald City that just makes me feel blah.
I could've sworn I read all of Baum's original Oz books as a kid, but "The Magic of Oz" was too unfamiliar for this to be true. Not great literature, but a few creative elements -- the Lonesome Duck, the magic flower, the Glass Cat -- move this a bit above OK. 2.8/5Available on Gutenberg.
Ruggedo makes another appearance in this story, as do Cap'n Bill, Trot, and the Glass Cat. Young Kiki Aru is an interesting character--early in the book he says "I didn't know I was being wicked, but if I was, I'm glad of it.
I've always wanted to be wicked, but I didn't know how." Yikes.
He has great power with his knowledge of the unpronouncible magic word, but he uses it casually, almost without regard to consequences.
The unpronouncible magic word was fun to try to read out loud, by the way--sent us into laughter more than once.
The plot was thin (thinner than usual - the "main plot" was Dorothy and Trot going on a quest to find a birthday present for Ozma.) The subplot had more potential - a selfish Munchkin boy who gets ahold of a magic word of transformation, and he reluctantly teams up with the Nome King on a quest to conquer the Emerald City.
While that plot had more potential (and had some really clever and suspenseful moments), the Munchkin and Nome were vanquished almost accidentally, cheapening the whole thing.
Again, Baum's cleverness with inventing fun creatures and new magical ideas is strong in this book, but with such a flimsy plot, it's not an Oz tale that I would re-read.

I picked up a copy of this version since, for 99c, I could have the complete series along with "All the original artwork by the great illustrator W.W. Denslow (over 1,000 classic illustrations)", and to read the complete 14-book text at bedtime with all original color illustrations on my Kindle Fire knowing that there would be cross-linked tables of contents and no layout issues, it was worth my buck rather than taking them all out of the library.
#5 The Road to Oz (1909) READ August 12, 2014 – February 22, 2015 My Kid – The love magnet was pretty awesome, and Dorothy meets the rainbow girl and Shaggy man...
Now granted, darker is a bit subjective here, and it's not "King" or "Barker" dark, but for a children's book, it can get a somewhat grim.
He meets up with Rugedo the former gnome king who convinces him to use this power to take over the land of Oz and help him mete our revenge for the way they have treated him.At the same time, Ozma's birthday is coming up and her friends seek out that special gift to give her.
They way their adventures cross was clever and fun and the whole story was just one of the more delightful Oz books, that it was.
Ugh. Baum is definitely back to his old tricks with this one.
Another pointless story related to celebrating Ozma's birthday.
If Baum had to pick one of his Oz books to reprise, why on earth did he pick The Road to Oz, which in my opinion is the worst one?!
I rated this one slightly better because there was a little bit more of an actual story, and two major plotlines were woven together pretty well.
There's only one more Oz book that was written by Baum himself, and after that, I'm done.

"But now, O mighty Wizard, you must come with me to where six of my people are transformed into six great giant men," he said, "for if they are allowed to remain there, their happiness and their future lives will be ruined."The Wizard did not reply at once, for he was thinking this a good opportunity to win Rango's consent to his taking some monkeys to the Emerald City for Ozma's birthday cake.The Wizard of Oz is kind of a jerk.
(Spoiler: Rango agrees.)Jack Pumpkinhead remains kind of unsettling.

An interesting little tale. The story, not uniquely, revolves around the celebration of Ozma’s upcoming birthday. This time the adventures revolve around finding a gift for the girl ruler who has everything — as well as the magic to produce anything she might come to desire. As to be expected, while off seeking enchanting presents, the cast of familiar characters befuddled a plot to invade the Emerald City and dethrone Ozma.
Finding presents for Ozma's birthday is a pretty flimsy excuse for a story, seeing as how she's an immortal fairy and all, but I guess Baum was running a little low on ideas to get folks out of the Emerald City and into the Oz hinterlands at this point. He was definitely running out of villains; the Nome King gets recycled yet again and is defeated in the same way as before. But the magic flower on the island was a neat touch.
This book probably would have been more enjoyable had I been more familiar with Baum's previous works in the series and not just Judy Garland.It is interesting to note that there is no currency in the Land of Oz and the final chapter of the story was about the Fountain and Water of Oblivion and transformation.
So, I have to admit that this one was very good! I liked that Baum get to explore other places on the other side of Oz. The ending has left me with some questions, especially of Kiki Aru. Looks like the Oz people will never know how he learned the magical word and I wonder if his parents are worried and will look for him?
What I liked about this book was that there were hardly any new characters, so the reader gets to spend more time with the already familiar characters. There were some elements of the plot, which were a bit weird, but overall the story was ok.
cute read about Ozma's birthday, but not extra special like the others. A bit interesting that the magic flower plant also produce fruit, but I guess they start as a blossom as well. Did the monkeys ever get transformed back to normal size after the party?
One of those books that does give you a bit of a vibe that Oz is under a tad of an oppressive regime. At least everyone does get a happy ending.. ish
*3.75
I read the first book, then this which is book 13 or so? The glass cat was great. Could follow easily despite not having background on half the characters.
Gran obra!
Este cuento me ha sorprendido mucho. Aunque no deja de ser un cuento para peques, tiene muchos mensajes ocultos, sutiles. Es inspirador.
What do you get the girl who has everything? Well this wonderful addition to the Oz series...
Me cayo muy infantil, y eso fue lo que en algunas partes me saturaba un poco, pero fuera de eso, es una buena historia llena de imaginacion.Feliz de haber leido por fin El Mago de Oz.
