https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61896.The_Winds_of_Darkover
The thing I've always appreciated about Marion Zimmer Bradley's Darkover series is that it works as both scine fiction and fantasy; not many authors can pull that off.
Natives of Darkover do, and Dan keeps on doing things he doesn't understand that inteferes with his duties because he keeps blanking out during telepathic incidents.
Still, worth reading if you like Bradley, and I do find her work well worth reading.
Not an interesting jerk, mind you, just your garden variety dude whose usual response to intrigue is, and I quote: "what the devil?"The Winds of Darkover takes us on a journey with Barron as he is psychically manipulated, drawn against his will to save people who are being held captive after their castle is stormed and overtaken.
He is unhappily pulled outside his comfortable, Earth-like spaceport home, and into Darkover proper, where he generally fumes about his situation.Then he disappears for a good portion of the book, his personality completely subsumed under that of the force using him to save those prisoners.
One of the earlier stories, more like a novella these days. It's not an essential part of the chronology, but explains more about the issues between Aldaran, Storn and the Compact as well as giving insight into some of the societal limitations.Many of the plot elements recur in other Darkover stories, but I think this was probably the first to introduce them.
I have a 1978 edition published by Arrow Books Ltd
Research read. A bit distracted by the heroine's name.
Long story made short - Marietta escapes, Storn overshadows Barron, they meet in Carthon.
While the Lord of Aldaran offers no help, they meet Desideria, a powerful telepath trained to act as a Keeper, who upon learning that there are still forge-folk who worship Sharra at Storn, offers to help them by focusing the energies of the worshippers through Sharra to fight Brynat and his men.
They defeat Brynat, take back Storn, and it seems very likely that there will soon be a double wedding - Barron and Marietta, Desideria and Storn.
(view spoiler)[He isn’t able to ship Barron off planet, because he can’t prove that the accident wasn’t Barron’s fault.
(hide spoiler)]Barron is befriended by Lerrys, (from The Bloody Sun), (view spoiler)[and through him learns that he is seeing the Darkover deity Sharra.
Melitta is surprised to find out that Barron is Loran Storn and not the strange Terran before her.
(view spoiler)[However, once Barron walks through a field psychic dampener, Loran is forced to lose his link to Barron’s mind.
How will Melitta and Barron be able to regain their rightful possession of Storn Castle, free Edric, and save her sister Allira from Brynat’s dirty hands, before it is too late?
"The Winds of Darkover" is the first work in Bradley's Sharra arc.
Alyssa Rosenberg of the Washington Post has this to say about our re-reading of Marion in the post-revelations period:"Zimmer Bradley’s descriptions of the awakening of sexual desire, the devastating power of sexual assault and the psychic damage wrought by constricting women’s roles in society remain beautiful and evocative in ways that much contemporary pop culture could learn from.
Many of her characters are young women, married in their teens, and Zimmer Bradley handles their shifting thoughts about their husbands, their roles as wives and their nascent sexuality with care and consideration....How, then, to reckon with the masterful public work and the allegedly monstrous private life?
Darkover is a "lost colony" of Earth that falls into a medieval society ruled by a psychic aristocracy and is later rediscovered by a star-spanning advanced human federation after centuries, giving the series a feel of both science fiction and fantasy.
Most books in the series examine this culture clash and this book is no exception as a member of the Terran spaceforce, Dan Barron, gets involved with the comyn, the planetary aristocracy.
This was the fifth book published, and I think Bradley came into her own as a writer later, and the best Darkover books were in my opinion written from 1974 to 1984, before her stroke.
The Terran POV is good grade A scifi.
The Darkovan POV is typically dark and tedious grade B fantasy in places and I routinely speed read those chapters.
After the merging, the pace fluctuates and I speed read maybe 25%.
With speed reading the grade is B+.==================================Notes on Winds of Darkover.
These notes were taken during reading long before the internet existed.
Terran spaceship dispatcher Daniel's mind is taken over by "Loran" Sorn, amateur loran user and blind lord of Sorn Castle.
Daniel has powerful latent loran.---- charactersDaniel Firth Baron"Loran" SornMelita SornDesidra Allard (16)Larry Montray (Lerrys Alton) (21?
A Terran mapper and explorer, Barron, goes out into the wilds and his mind is taken over by a non-Comyn telepath, Storn, who is lying blind and besieged in his castle.
Meanwhile, his sister Melitta manages to steal out of the castle, has a nice little epic journey through some gooky caves, and eventually meets up with Barron (really Storn) in the barbaric Dry-Towns, where women are chained.
The forge-goddess - another woman in chains - is eventually invoked by a very young Desideria to drive out the bandits, and it emerges, incidentally almost, that this power - this forge-goddess - is called Sharra - the same force that causes all the problems in many other books.
This is the fifth book published (in 1970) in Marion Zimmer Bradley's "Darkover" series.
There are several "firsts" in this book.
This is the first book to have "Darkover" in the title.
It's also the first Darkover story with a female viewpoint character.This is a relatively straightforward adventure story about a minor Darkovan noble whose estate has been taken over by bandits.
The noble picks a Terran with latent telepathic powers as an unwitting acomplice in his quest.The story moves along well, although Zimmer Bradley may not have the best grasp of geography.
Be that it as it may, I found The Winds of Darkover compelling and a page turner.
Dan Barron, a very rational member of the Terran Spaceforce on Darkover finds himself having "nightmare visions" and his career in shambles.
When he ventures into the "unmapped heart of the Darkovan mountain ranges" he finds himself caught in the planet's mysteries, such as the Ghost Wind, and strange forces that may be real gods, as well as a war against murderous bandits who are attempting to displace a mountain dynasty.The ending is quite satisfactory.I wanted this book to be longer.
This fifth Darkover novel finally begins to show the promise of Bradley's talent that would flower in the 1970s, with her important and groundbreaking works in the series.
At base, this short book is an adventure story in the vein of Burroughs, though it also shows more clearly than any of the previous volumes in the series the Lovecraftian influence that the young author was under when she first imagined the world of Darkover.
This volume fills in some of the backstory of the rise of the Sharra rebellion, as well as being a connecting volume between that part of the Darkover series and the other major strain within Bradley's writings, the theoretical development of matrix technologies and (just a glimmer here) the issues-oriented later novels.

Incredibly short, more of a novelette (or maybe I've just gotten too used to 800-page monsters?) Yet another Terran alienated and finds his home on Darkover.
All these things that are supposed to be taboo happen every which way and on the end, nothing happens in the way of punishment.
Are we supposed to believe it's because Darkover is changing whether they like it or not or because out in the Hellers, the Comyn laws can't be enforced?
Who travels into space to make everything exactly like what you left behind?
Questa antologia contiene tre chicche godibilissime (“Il fuoco della vendetta” di Susan Schwartz, “Il compagno di giochi” di Elizabeth Waters e “L’Erede di Aillard” di Diann Partridge), ma – ahimè! – per il resto ha troppi racconti che riguardano Hillary Castamir (personaggio che appariva solo in menzione in “La Torre Proibita”), con i suoi drammi mestruali, e altri incentrati sia su Lady Rohana di “La catena spezzata” sia sulle Libere Amazzoni, tutti soggetti la cui mistica non ho mai compreso.
The Wind of Darkovers is the first Darkover Roman I've red.And I'm positively thrilled.On ca. 190 pages Bradley tells a story which could fill 1000 pages if she would dive deaper into the characters and the storyboard.And this is the beauty of this story. Because its short there is no dangling around over endless desciption how nice the sun reflects on the see in rainbow colours never been seen before.If you look for a science fiction roman easy to read take this one.I can't wait to read the others of the darkover series.
This is the first book in about 20 I have in the Darkover series I have read. The beginning was a bit confusing, and even at the end I still don't know what to think of this world, but that will likely come with more being read. I would give this a 3.5 out of 5 with a lot of the more enjoyable parts coming halfway to 2/3 of the way in.
This book is useful for passing the time after nightfall when you live in the woods and/or the back of a van, and you have already read your other books.The author really wants you to like her characters, and to be taken in by her world. Sorry, gotta work harder than that.
If it has one star I liked it a lot If it has two stars I liked it a lot and would recommend itIf it has three stars I really really liked it a lot If it has four stars I insist you read it If it has five stars it was life changing
Yeah, I just have to agree with Will on this one. Marion Zimmer Bradely's been sort of hit-and-miss with me, and the Darkover novels have all been pretty miss.
A good Darkover novel.
there are lot of mysteries around red hot sun. but i feel "the boy who played with dark matter" is better read.
Interesting world building
One of the more interesting juveniles"," as the main character spends a lot of his time overshadowed by someone else!
Found this an enjoyable read and quite hard to put down!
Thoughts on rereading: http://simner.com/blog/?p=4206
