https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103203.A_Coin_in_Nine_Hands
About his novel Marguerite Yourcenar declared to the Portuguese newspaper Expresso, during his visit to Lisbon in 1981 and in an interview conducted by Antonio Mega Ferreira:Interested me mainly to describe the environment, people and the problems that lived in Italy, but deep down in all my works, it's about this time I intend to intervene because it is about the great human problems, those who the passage of time does not solve, I like to write.Note of the Editor
This is a spare but elegant little novel. The device of the same coin moving from person to person provides a little window on each character, some wealthy, some poor,but linked together in a sort of "six degrees of separation" way, in 1933 in Rome. The focus of the book is an attempted assassination of Mussolini, and each character's reactions, or lack of reaction.
This is neither a collection of short stories (too many tie-ins with preceding episodes for that) nor a well structured novel in the classical sense.The central episode that gets most attention is that to do with the assassination of the dictator and yet all of the stories are about life under Fascism in one way or another.The opening words of "A Coin in Nine Hands" are "feeling tired." Exhaustion, frustration, disillusionment, hopelessness, failure - a kind of unstoppable historical slide into chaos - is the current pulling the lives of the characters through the narratives.Future prospects, happiness and human feeling are stripped away under Fascism and Yourcenar's shows this from a range of perspectives.The first - and best - episode relates the story of Lina Chari, a prostitute, dying of breast cancer.
Code Inconnu---a prequelYou might have seen "Code Inconnu" or "Code Unknown", a French film made in 2000 by Michael Haneke.
In that film, people from startlingly different backgrounds and walks of life intersect for a brief moment in Paris.
Their lives entangle for that instant, then they soar off into unknown regions again.
The only thing that ties them (and the film) together is that one tiny moment.
Yourcenar, sixty-six years previously, created a novel with a very similar approach to life.
It's a powerful theme and Yourcenar presents her work most subtly, without any lecturing or pontificating.
There is a remarkable concept here: the idea of a small token being both the driving element and main character of the work, passively travelling through the mundane, heroic choices of those who retrieve – bear – abandon it; creating the history (not story) that is told.
There is none of MdH’s transcendence here, or the nostalgic doom of L’OaN – but the short story temperament of the author's small works that, in context, go beyond what Denier puts forth.
Pas si réussi, ce roman-ci. Le procédé d'enchainer les personnages par une pièce de 10 lire qui va de main en main, me semble très orginel, mais ne donne pas plus d'ampleur à l'histoire. Le thème, la vie sous Mussolini dans l'italie des années trentes, est naturellement très intéressant, mais Yourcenar le racconte plutôt d'une manière monotone. Et alors, la marque d'auteur de Yourcenar, les remarques de sagesses, commence à énerver. Dommage.
No pude terminar, porque realmente no me motivó. Se supone que trata de un atentado que nunca vi muy claramente...no sé si darle una nueva oportunidad, ahí estará esperando, porque tengo que cumplir con otros libros por ahora.
I did not like the writing (or maybe the translation) and it really didn't make me think or feel anything. I'm not sure what the whole point was. But hey, you might like it!?
Yourcenar escribe la literatura que he buscado toda mi vida. Dice cosas que yo nunca podré decir. Si me preguntan por mis escritores favoritos, ambas se llaman Marguerite y son francesas.
It tastes like watching Fellini.
Hiç beğenmedim desem yeridir. Dil o kadar yavaş o kadar bayıktı ki benim için, kendimi zorladım bitirmek için. Halbuki cevirmenine (Roza Hakmen) bayılırım.
Valoda manam līmenim drusku par sarežģītu, kaut brīžiem ļoti smuki sarakstīts. Pagaidām atliku malā.
Don’t be deceived by the number of pages in this book. It is not a quick read. Emotionally intense. No wasted words. Each sentence is packed with nuance. For me, a second reading is required (if I ever run out of books to read) in order to understand and appreciate it fully. QUOTES Page 32-5For Giulio, living in a world of uncomplicated ideas, a votive candle was only a nobler, finer taper of wax, a good thing to offer the Virgin when you have a favour to ask; ... But the wax object, paraffin di
Page 32-5For Giulio, living in a world of uncomplicated ideas, a votive candle was only a nobler, finer taper of wax, a good thing to offer the Virgin when you have a favour to ask; ...
These flickerings had been consumed infinitely faster than brief human lives: some wishes had been denied; others, on the contrary, granted: the unfortunate thing is that, because wishes sometimes come true, the agony of hoping is perpetuated..
And yet the thin wax tapers burning under the unmoving gaze of the Madonna were not useless: they were there to maintain the fiction of a hope.
Kitap 2.Dünya savaşı faşist bir ortamdaki Roma da geçiyor.
Birden fazla karakterin hayatındaki aşağı yukarı birkaç gününü her birindeki hayatın ve çevrenin etkileri, siyasal ve ekonomik düzenin nasıl bu insanları birbirine bağladığını bir bozuk paranın aracılığıyla anlatılmış.Bu farklı çevre ve kültürel geçmişi olan insanların nasıl bir şehirde yaşayarak komşuluk adı altında birbirlerini etkilediğini görmek, onların dışardaki biri tarafındaki gözünden yorumlarını okumak aslında hayatın acımasızlığını yetişkin bir gözle bakmak gibi aslında.
Kafa yoran bir anlatımı olmasa da bu insanların hayat koşuşturmacasını takip etmek, bolca içinde bulundurduğu karakterleri daha sonra birbirlerine bağlanmasını anlamak için dikkatli bir okuma gerektiriyor.
Bu kısacık gibi görünen ama dolu dolu bir anlatıma sahip olan kitap evrensel bir hayat draması-tarzını seven okuyucularına özenle tavsiye edilir!!
This was a short read but an interesting story.
I am wary of translations but this one seems to be well done - many of the passages are lyrical.
The passing of the coin is not always obvious as I got caught up in the story, an attempted assassination of Mussolini, and the ripple effect that has on people both connected and unconnected with the assassin.
Set in Rome in 1933, it offers an interesting cross section of Roman life in time past.
I'm glad I did and I will definitely read her seemingly better known Memoirs of Hadrian.
Nella Roma dell'anno XI dell'era fascista troviamo una serie di personaggi ruotare attorno a una moneta da 10 lire mentre viene preparato un attentato contro il duce.Assistiamo così alle ragioni di Marcella, l'attentatrice, così come di altri co-protagonisti con le loro problematiche, tra povertà, malattia o confino politico.In quello che forse è il primo romanzo francese ad affrontare la problematica di quegli anni la città dell'epoca e la città eterna si fondono nelle vite dei protagonisti, a metà tra sogno e realtà.
Marguerite Yourcenar avec son « Denier du Rêve » contribue à nous faire découvrir, comme d’habitude, son écriture et son styles soutenus.Passionnée d’histoire, son domaine de prédilection se retrouve dans ce livre, où se mêle allégorie et métaphore du pouvoir et de l’oppression. Un Big brother romain à l’époque contemporaine où l’on se retrouve un certain Jules César !Le passage des 10 lires, entre les différents personnages des nouvelles qui s’imbriquent dans le roman, est un leitmotive absolument entrainant !
Bu yazarın okuduğum 2. kitabı. Yazarın üslubu, anlatım tarzı oldukça ağır geldi bana. Yazıldığı dilin de bunda etkisi olduğunu düşünüyorum. Bahsi geçen özel isimler bir kasaba adı mı, bir otel adı mı, bir şahıs adı mı ayırdetmekte zorlandım kimi zaman....Özetle kitap birbirine bağlı olay ve kişilerin hikayelerinden oluşan bir roman. Bu hikayeler kişilerin birinden diğerine geçen 10 liretlik bir bozuk para ile birbirine bağlanıyor....
This was a short, lovely book. On the day a young woman tries to kill Mussolini, a 10-lire coin changes hands nine times. The story follows each person who has the coin and their relationships with each other. Some of the characters interested me more than others, but the prose was always graceful, sometimes even arresting.
marguerite yourcenar might just be too educated, serious, and academic to tell the kind of story i want to read. another way of phrasing that is that i might be too dumb, young, and frivolous to handle her books.
Aslında 3.5
Italy
Several threads involving people living in prewar Italy during the reign of Mussolini conjoin in various circumstances. This creates a rather curious mosaic of life as it is lived.
I did not like this book as much as Trina seems too. Perhaps I have read a different translation. I had savored every page of Letters From Hadrian. This book paled for me.
Very similar to Calvino's The Path to the Spider's Nest
This powerful little novel evokes for me the fatalism of  Milan Kundera and the placid naturalism of  Balzac.
Yourcenar’s story follows a ten lira coin as it changes hands over the course of a day in Rome.
Each person who holds the coin bares their deppest hopes and fears and helps sketch the outline of the story.
The ensemble give a picture of life in pre-war Fascist Italy.
Yourcenar’s exploration into the human psyche and society offers many insights that resonate today (especially with our own fascist pig governing the USA).
Pequeno romance que fala dos sonhos de cada um de seus personagens, os quais se ligam entre si a partir do intercâmbio de uma moeda (um denário) O pano de fundo é a Itália de Mussolini.
Alguns trechos refletem isso:“as palavras nada podem contra a surdez da alma”“Nem o preconceito imemorial que reserva a posse de uma alma unicamente ao homem, nem esse grosseiro orgulho que faz cada vez mais o homem moderno o apogeu da natureza, jamais haviam conseguido persuadir Clément que um animal é menos digno que o homem da solicitude de Deus”
