https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13661.Tehanu
May 2013I don't know anything anymore.A Wizard of Earthsea and The Farthest Shore, you can take your dragons and shove em. Your wizardry's not wanted here. All your quests are just cruises and island-hopping, boys' own adventures. Fuck it all. This is the real story. The tedium and horror of regular life is more epic than your silly jaunts, and all your hoity-toity man's magic won't do nothing to save you here. Goddamn.
Of all the fantasy realms I’ve read about, lived in, imagined, there is only one I prefer to Earthsea and that’s Tolkien’s.
She doesn’t waste words and her novels are always quite brief and very character driven, though somehow I have a keener picture of Earthsea than most other fantasy realms.
He thought he had learned pain, but he would learn it again and again, all his life, and forget none of it.” Ursula Le Guin is one of my favourite fantasy writers.
1. A Wizard of Earthsea-  Four worthy stars 2.
I remember reading Tehanu in grade school; I also remember not liking it very much.
The first three Earthsea novels were good, interesting, entertaining, but Tehanu belongs to another tier entirely.
Its character development and world-building are par with Tombs of Atuan, but its pacing is better and it ties in more tightly to existing lore.
It's heartening to learn that, without the crutches of myth and magic and religion, they still stand as individuals, well-developed and interesting to read about.
Tehanu is a book about people, the good and the bad, about life and growing up and the mysteries of someone else's way of seeing.
Instead the book concentrates on Tenar (from the "Tombs of Atuan") and her life on Gont Island and that of the small damaged girl Tenar finds in the road one day who has been so badly burned and mistreated that she is terribly deformed.The book deals with discrimination on the basis of appearence, the everyday sexism of the society, and the will of a strong woman to defy that sexism and live her life and protect her adopted, damaged child, and also care for her damaged rescuer turned lover (Ged).It's a quiet but incredibly powerful book with a stunning and unexpected ended.
I think this was an interesting installment for the Earthsea books not because it continued the grand tradition of huge fantasy implications and events, but because it flips our expectations and gives us a very domestic view of Earthsea.That's not to say that evil things don't happen, because they do, but the scope is pulled all the way back in, with Tenar from book 2 and Ged meeting up again after almost a lifetime, with her as a middle-aged woman and Ged much changed after the events of book 3, having lost his magic.Reader expectations can be a huge complication to any tale that wants to be told.
This is the fantasy book that I've always hoped would be written but thought impossible in the genre: a beautifully crafted tale of humanity where the magic and dragons take the back seat.
It makes me want to be a better reader, a better writer, a better person.In 2017 I spent so much time reading ULG that many of the 133 books begin to pale.
The world is a better place because she decided to put pen to paper and teach us.Rest in peace, Ursula.
Because in them, female characters are written only as decorations and toys for the male characters, are drawn so vaguely and so stylized that they're barely recognizable as human beings with internal lives and self-driven motivations and needs.
"Maybe the change coming into Earthsea has something to do with no longer identifying freedom with power, with separating being free from being in control." And what le Guin says of the conversation between Moss and Tenar on the difference between men and women: "Moss is pretty contemptuous of men in general, having been treated by them with contempt all her life.
I’m finding it increasingly difficult to articulate how and why the genius writer Ursula K.
Le Guin’s work pierces my soul as I read more and more of it.
There is so much hard-earned, plainspoken, painful, loving wisdom in this book.
It feels like she absorbed everything that she had created in the first three Earthsea books, written decades earlier, and found a way to filter them through her own accumulated life experiences and ideas, and poured everything that she was into this new tale.
It feels profoundly personal to her in a way that is just magical and utterly moving.
I must have been about 10 when I read the original Earthsea trilogy for the first time and was just blown away by it.
I was thrilled when Le Guin decided to write another story in that world - until I read it.
One of the posters said there are actually two Ursula Le Guins.
Good Ursula is a gifted storyteller who writes beautifully crafted and thought provoking novels.
Bad Ursula never lets the story get in the way of The Message.
Yerdeniz serisi okuduğum ilk fantastik seriydi, zamanında çok beğenmiştim ama yarım kalmıştı. Kaldığım yerden devam etmek istememe rağmen bu kitaptan sonra yine ara vereceğim. Kitabı sevemedim, bana hitap edemedi. Ursula'nın başka kitaplarını okuyup onlarda sevebilmeyi umuyorum.
The darkness, sexuality, and gender role issues in this book, though valid on their own merits, felt really out of place to me in this fantasy world.
My other gripe is that this book would have been infinitely more entertaining if it had been written from Tehanu's perspective.
The other three books are written in this way, from Ged to Tenar to the young prince.
She is old and bitter at the world.**SPOILERS**Also, to those who would say that Tehanu's perspective would give away too much to soon concerning her true nature as a dragon person, I have two things to say.
It's possible that people who have never experienced much actual trauma or severe discrimination might not understand how on-target this book can be.
And The Macho Paradox by Jackson Katz is a surprisingly good book on male violence (and not just against women).Reading the first 3 Earthsea books, I couldn't understand why some people called Le Guin a "feminist writer." In Tehanu this finally comes across clearly - and it works very well.
I love that each of the Earthsea books is very different, and this one certainly takes fantasy novels in a new direction.
Ήθελα πολύ να παραθέσω κάποιο απόσπασμα του βιβλίο στην κριτική μου ώστε να πάρετε μια ιδέα,αλλά δεν μπορούσα.
και,πιστέψτε με, αξίζει τόσο πολύ αυτή την ανάγνωση!!
Υπάρχουν αναφορές σε γεγονότα των προηγούμενων βιβλίων, αλλά διαβάζεται άνετα μόνο του.
Η υπόθεση: μια χήρα, η Γκοχά, παίρνει υπό την προστασία της ένα κορίτσι που επέζησε από μια επίθεση με φωτιά που την άφησε παραμορφωμένη.
Η ιστορία είναι από την οπτική γωνία της Γκοχά και διαδραματίζεται σε έναν φανταστικό τόπο, το νησί Γκοντ.
Το προτείνω σε όλες κι όλους σας.[Readathon17: 9/52 "Ένα βιβλίο με 1 λέξη μόνο στον τίτλο"]
Jednostavno rečeno, ovo je serijal koji ne treba propustiti.
If Wizard of Earthsea is a coming of age tale, and Atuan is about the power of self, where Farthest Shore speaks of death and the power of adulthood, Tehanu is the story of the power of the feminine.
All the joy, all the horror, the frustration, loss, fear, deep love, the resilience and resentment.
Either it will speak to you so directly you will know anger, fear, and despair...or, if you have not reached for the feminine inside yourself, shame.
May some dragon free you, and may she choose to be kind about it.CONTENT WARNING: (view spoiler)[ This is a tale of feminine horror.
Bu defa okuduğum diğer iki kitaptan daha farklı "daha derin" tabir edebilecegim şeyler de vardı.
Sanırım bu yüzden diğer kitaplarda favori karakterim Gedken bu defa Tenar diye yaptım grizgahı.
Dikkatimi çeken satırlar vardı örnek olması açısından paylaşayım: #1 Sonra kurtuldum, seninle ve Ogion ile kurtuldum, bir an için.
Ama bu benim özgürlüğüm değildi.
Sadece, bana seçme şansı verilmişti; seçtim...
Kendimi bir çamur gibi, bir çiftlik, bir çiftçi ve çocuklarımızın hizmeti için şekillendirmeyi seçtim.
Kendimi bir kap yaptım.
Hayat bana dans ettirdi, dansları biliyordum.
Ama bu dansları yapanın kim olduğunu bilmiyordum.
Le Guin had picked up a strident feminism in between The Farthest Shore and Tehanu, and it shows in Tehanu in the worst way possible.
Literally every female character in the book is worthy (even dirty, crazy Aunty Moss), whereas all the men in the book are weak and ineffective at best and downright obnoxious at worst.
I can only imagine how a male reader must feel about this book.) It's a pity Le Guin had to ruin her book like this, for the story itself, about the former High Priestess of Atuan who adopts a special girl and finds she is very special indeed, is interesting.
Ovo je baš jedna od onih klasičnih knjiga koje su to bolje što ih više puta čitam i koje sa svakom pauzom dobiju neko novo osvetljenje. Mnogo pozdrava četrnaestogodišnjoj meni koja se žalila da je Tehanu previše feministička.
Also posted on imbookedindefinitelyIt is surprising that it has taken Le Guin up to the fourth book to bring to the forefront one of the most conspicuous and prevalent inequities not only in the fantasy genre but more importantly in the living world, that is the inequity between the sexes.
Perhaps this is by reason that Le Guin was severely criticized for not touching sexism up until this point or that the Earthsea cycle was originally slated only for three books.
Though i guess this is one of the more elegiac themes albeit of real life importance that Le Guin presents (considering further what characterizes her writing).
In the third book, Ged sets out with an aristocratic youth to save the world, and in this final installment, Tenar cares for an abused girl, whom she names Therru ("fire" in her own language).
What's awesome is that Le Guin, I think, succeeds in putting that story on the same level of importance as the previous installments (Tenar's care for Therru seems no less vital than any of Ged's acts in the earlier books), while at the same time showing how gender structures her struggle.
Tehanu kadının toplumdaki yerini sorgulayan bir kitap. Yerdeniz'in dördüncü kitabının temel konusu kadın. Ursula Le Guin okuyucuyu Yerdeniz'in büyüsünden biraz uzaklaştırıp o diyarların toplumsal yönünü gösteriyor. Kadın - erkek eşitsizliğinin baskın oldugu metinler ile büyü birleşince ortaya harika bir kitap çıkmış. Şimdiyse seriye biraz ara verip Le Guin'in kalemini sindirmenin zamanı.Devamı için: https://buyuluayrac.blogspot.com.tr/2...
Wow... In less than 10 pages Le Guin is able turn all the tables, lead the reader to climax and finish the novel altogether.. She is the master of storytellers in my regard. Highly recommended
I could not like this book very much as a child because I think it takes an adult mind to feel the depth of its questions and to understand the pain and the characters' reactions.
What is a woman's power?Now I think this is probably the strongest book of the Earthsea series (or at least of the quartet), but it wouldn't have been nearly as great a book without the previous tales and the writing of those books.
You can clearly see Le Guin's own evolution, as a writer and a thinker and a woman, through the first four books of Earthsea, and it culminates in Tehanu.Where are the women in A Wizard of Earthsea?
Serinin en yoğun diyaloglu kitabı sanırım bu..Yani 200 sayfada " ne oluyor, bir durun, o neden bunu yaptı " demekten dikkatinizi toplamakta güçlük çekiyorsunuz.Biraz da sıkıldım sanırım. Eğer serinin bitmesine 2 kitap kalmasaydı bırakırdım.Neyse bitireceğiz artık :/
I loved the original trilogy and considered it complete.
But how glad I am there was!Tehanu catches up with Tenar years after Ged left her on Gont.
She's a widow with grown children who has quite left her past as Ahra-the-Eaten-One behind.
Why do men hurt women and children?
Who is a parent, someone that bears you or someone that loves you?
If your life is based on wielding power and you can no longer do so, what are you and what can you do now?I love all the Earthsea books.
Every time I read them I catch something new and learn something about myself.
If more children--boys--read the Earthsea saga, finishing off with "Tehanu," the world wouldn't have this fucking "meninist" problem.Loss, shame, the weight of love: it's all explored here, with patience and honesty.“She thought about how it was to have been a woman in the prime of life, with children and a man, and then to lose all that, becoming old and a widow, powerless.
Perhaps only a man could feel so.
A woman got used to shame.” Re-reading this series was a beautiful, emotional experience, and I'm sad it's over, yet very grateful.Only in silence the word,Only in dark the light,Only in dying life:Bright the hawk's flightOn the empty sky.—The Creation of Éa
Put another way, the Great Feminist Revision of Earthsea started here, though in a small, quiet way, with one woman taking in an abused child and a lost man mourning for his lost power.The discussion of the roles of women in Archipeligan society is clearly a transposed discussion of women's roles back here in the "real" world as well as in epic fantasy generally.
Their romance seems entirely natural, indeed somehow incipient in The Tombs of Atuan.So, as usual LeGuin gives deep insight and characterisation and makes a powerful, important point, but this book only gets three stars, because of LeGuin's one weakness - the plotting.
Tehanu is very strange and hard to read because it is so different from the first 3 books.
I read it to the end though because I kept hoping that it would eventually become an earthsea worthy book...sorely disappointed in this author for ruining a perfectly good fantasy series.
It would be like Tolkien writing a 4th Lord of the Rings book about Gandalf's life after his wizarding power has been taken away and he's afraid of a local orc who teases him, but he can't do anything about it (you get the idea).
Please save your good image of Earthsea and DO NOT READ THIS BOOK.
Tehanu... Yani "öteki". Toplum içinde hep aykırı kalan, farklı olan, genel geçer ne varsa üzerinde durmayan herkes biraz Tehanu. Sevginin iyileştiren yegâne güç olduğunu, bir de bakmanın değil görmenin kıymetini çok güzel anlattığı için bu romanı çok seviyorum.
She started studying magic but did not feel that she fit in the man's world of wizardy, and so chose to marry a prosperous farmer and raise a family like a normal woman.As a teenager, this was a disappointment.
Weren't they women of power?""A queen's only a she-king," said Ged.She snorted."I mean, men give her power.
Tenar the woman has to learn to trust herself and it is more complicated than "believing in yourself.""Tehanu" is a complicated book about gender and power and creation and (of course) dragons.
