https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/204276.Split_Second
You craved everything Star Wars.Then The Empire Strikes Back came out and it added so many layers.
Yoda letting the audience know “No. There is another” led to rampant speculation for a few years about where the story was going to go next.And then we got Return of the Jedi which pretty much showed us that George Lucas was just making this stuff up as he went along.
I want to call the prose workmanlike, but honestly, I've read a lot of myster-thrillers, it's a genre that generally lends itself to fairly functional storytelling and the prose in Split Second was clunkier and less inspired than its peers.
(view spoiler)[The relationship between King and Dillinger at least relates back to the plot, but Maxwell's instant fascination with King, her immediate deference and trust, her weird, out-of-place jealousy about Dillinger and the stupid, ugly catfighting between Dillinger and Maxwell over King was predictable, tedious and made me feel like I was an unwilling voyeur into Baldacci's id.
Secret Service Agents Sean King and Michelle Maxwell watched their careers go up in smoke in a split second.
Though their events occurred eight years apart, they become connected by the events that altered their courses.
It also seems now that the two events might have their own connection.
I liked the murky characters and odd directions the story would take, sometimes making it a bit convoluted but always interesting.
Scott Brick's narration set the right tone for King and Maxwell's relationship dynamics.
I'll continue listening to the series as I liked the interplay between the two characters.
A good quick read by a very talented storyteller.
"Split Second" is the beginning of another Baldacci storyline called the "King and Maxwell Series".
Through an elaborately connected chain of events, though not seeming at the time, Maxwell and King team up to discover who is responsible for the conspiracy.
Admittedly, I like Baldacci's later "Camel Club Series" much, much better.
This was an engaging read, and maybe I shouldn't be so quick to compare it after having only read the first book of the series, but I thought even the first book of the Camel Club storyline was superbly written and meticulously plotted.
Great story. Loved the weaving mystery. It was a great one. Loved the explosive ending!
I bought it in India international trade fair at Pragati Maidan, New Delhi.
I wanted to read a new thriller writer and the salesman suggested this.
Maxwell and king of secret service has this is common.
They complement each other and form a good team of investigators.
It gives very good thrill.
Climax explains everything and ties up loose ends.Some excerpts:It only took a split second, although to Secret Service agent Sean King it seemed like the longest split second ever.
Sean!”------Another explosion rocked the structure, and she jumped off the front porch a few seconds before it came tumbling down.
I have completely forgotten to review this book. Read it this summer thought it was ok, nothing really special. The two main character felt a bit boring to be honest it was nothing like reading about Patrick and Angie by Dennis Lehane. Will perhaps read the rest of the series if I run out of books...lol...
Published and set in 2003/2004, the plot revolves around the assassination of one Presidential candidate eight years before the start of this book and the kidnapping of another one in the story's present day.
The main characters are the two Secret Service agents, Sean King and Michelle Maxwell, whose errors in judgment factored heavily into the aforementioned assassination and kidnapping.
King and Maxwell make for likable characters; he's in his mid-forties and has managed to rebuild his life after his career took a nose-dive after he lost his protectee to an assassin's bullet.
Split Second is a typical Baldacci first book in a series.
It has interesting characters and excellent writing but the plot is a bit weak.
I have seen this trend across his various books and this one is no exception.As always, the lead characters are extraordinary individuals (secret agents in this case) who have had to deal with a personal/professional tragedy.
They have differing views on life and this makes their interactions interesting.The plot was weak though.
In the end, the plot fizzles out.
But, regardless, I still enjoyed the book because, you know, it's Baldacci.
Sean King is a former Secret Service agent whose split second lack of attention 8 years ago caused a tea party type presidential candidate to lose his life (before there even was a tea party)when a brilliant professor working at a third rate college (he was a UC Berkeley PhD who had fallen from grace after his activism over the Vietnam War and Watergate) stepped up and shot him while Sean was being flashed from an elevator by the female agent he was screwing (someone sent her a phony request from Sean).
His books are one of those I see around bookstore a lot (in mystery section) but I haven't felt compelled to try.
Because I like the pilot of King & Maxwell, I decided to check out the series.I love a good mystery.
And I think this one provides a good mystery.
Yay!King and Maxwell have good chemistry of being partners -- and I hope it doesn't move into romance territory, because as much as I love romance, but sometimes it is not necessary.
I guess my first experience with Baldacci is a success...
The book started out kind of slow, and jumped around a lot, and hard to follow, but after about 100 pages it started to pick up, then it got really good!Split Second follows former US Secret Service Agent Sean King who's career ended when a Political Candidate who he was guarding is gunned down right in front of him, and failed to stop the assassin.
Now with Michelle's career on the line, she teams up with Sean King who is now working for a small law firm after his career with the Secret Service ended.
Just finished Split Second and, as with The Winner, was very impressed with Baldacci's style.
The research and planning that went into this book was amazing.
Unlike The Winner, I did figure out who 'the bad guy' was about a third of the way in, even when he tried to make it look as though I was wrong a bit later.
It will be interesting to see if Total Control, next on my list, is similar to these two books.
Fortunately Split Second was every bit as good as The Winner.
This was the first Sean King and Michelle Maxwell book in the series.Eight years ago, Sean King's career as a Secret Service Agent came to a screeching halt when a presidential candidate was killed on his watch.
Now, eight years later, Michelle Maxwell gets a taste of what Sean felt like when a candidate she's in charge of is kidnapped.
Sean has worked hard to put his life back together after the Ritter assassination.
Then the man working with Sean is found murdered in Sean's office.
Michelle seeks Sean out after her own failure with the secret service.
Sean King and Michelle Maxwell have one thing in common, albeit 8 years apart.
This story had a really good pace and made you think (because there were a butt load of characters, lol!) Sean is the older of the two and even though his situation happens first, he is somehow intertwined with the later incident involving Michelle.
There’s action, suspense and again, enough characters to keep you guessing as to who’s involved.
Sean and Michelle are just getting to know each other in this book but I liked their budding friendship and they complement each other well.
Dva dobra agenta Tajne službe prave fatalne greške zbog kojih je njihova karijera završena.
Predsednički kandidat Klajd Riter, koga je agent Šin King trebao čuvati, je ubijen.
Osam godina kasnije, predsednički kandidat Džon Bruno, koga je trebala čuvati agentkinja Mišel Maksvel, je kidnapovan.
Dva različita zločina, na izgled su međusobno nepovezana.
Ali usled nekih novih dešavanja, stvoriće se sumnja da su ipak ova dva zločina nekako povezana.
U nadi da će otkriti tu povezanost, a i rešiti oba slučaja, bivši agenti King i Maksvel udružuju snage.Citati:"Ako se predugo dvoumiš u vezi sa nekim stvarima, život proleti pored tebe, tako bar ja mislim.""Šta fali da bude odmah?
Intense action and a devious puzzle that kept the pages turning.
I did enjoy the first season of this series so decided to have look in the literary origin and see how much the actual difference would be.Mr Baldacci has been read by me before but those books were more of the one offs written by the writer and as thrillers they did not fail to entertain me.
The tv show decided to go for the duo to be already a PI partnership when we first meet them.The book starts with the assassination of Kings' presidential candidate and how he got the blame.
This is the first in the series of Sean King/Michelle Maxwell novels where two former secret service agents team up to solve a murder and in this case a kidnapping as well.The story: A Secret Service agent, Sean King, has his primary (protectee) assassinated while standing right next to him at a hotel reception.
Michelle Maxwell is currently a Secret Service agent and while her protectee is not assassinated, she is blamed for his kidnapping and she wants to get him back.
Very good misdirection by the author...you sneaky devil.) I'd read it again even knowing how it ends.
Often when you know how it ends, it spoils the reading, but I think this book can hold up under that.
Overall, an exciting debut for King and Maxwell, with strong character histories to help build the partnership, but I thought the plot was overly complex and the main protagonist's motivation lacking credibility. I look forward to reading the next one, though.
Abandoned after 100 pages. This author's writing style is just not for me. I couldn't get interested in the main characters.
Sean King and Michelle Maxwell - a formidable duo. I enjoyed this first book in the King & Maxwell series although I'll admit that I do prefer the ultimate kick ass partnership of Robie & Reel more. However, I'm definitely planning to continue with this series, as there is no doubting that David Baldacci writes an action packed thriller.
As an avid Baldacci fan I'm so happy to go "back" in time to this series! Love Maxwell and King already and can't wait to read the next book! Great, riveting plot (as I've come to expect from Baldacci) with enough twists and turns to keep you guessing. I enjoy Maxwells snark and Kings no-nonsense attitude! My rating: 4.5*---This was an audio book read for me.
~ 4.5 stars ~Even though I figured out part of the mystery early on, I enjoyed this book a lot and I'm looking forward to the rest of the series.
The author, David Baldacci, is renowned as one of the world's outstanding bestselling authors, and this work serves to show why.
The general plot and characterization here is excellent with so many twists and turns.
The chapters are essentially short too, making the book easier to read.
Also, there is a premium on prurience and outright sex which many might appreciate.
And for good measure there is plenty of old-fashioned humour too.
Of course the book is not devoid of some glitches – the plot might seem rather far-fetched, for one - but on the whole this is a very good read.
Michelle Maxwell, a Secret Service agent assigned to a presidential candidate, sees her rising career slip away when the candidate is kidnapped.
Eight years earlier, Agent Sean King was assigned to a candidate who was killed.
With their professional lives similarly shattered, the two meet and uncover unlikely coincidences between the two events.
Suspense mounts when a body appears in King's law office and when they are violently attacked.A decent-enough premise, but I found it disappointing.
Maxwell's an interesting character but insufficiently developed and the attempt to build a will-they/won't-they aura of sexual tension between her and King feels false and forced.
My online reading group plans to read the second book in this series in July.
Since I do not like to read a series out of order, I decided to read this in preparation.
Once I started the book, it seemed somewhat familiar but I was unable to decide if it was because I had already read the book or if I knew things because of the tv series.
Turns out, that I had read the book before but so long ago that I forgot most of it...most importantly - the big reveals.
Great travel, beach, bedside reading. Short, pithy chapters and action that seldom slows down. Two Secret Service agents who make little mistakes on the job with big consequences. The mistakes are related but the plot is pretty complicated and will keep you interested to the slightly hokey end. I might be a little generous at 4 Stars as there were flaws. But I want to see King and Maxwell carry on in future adventures. Maxwell is great, she kicks butt. King is more of the braniac and moody. Should be a great pairing.
This was an awesome beginning to a series. There was twist at every turn with a strong female character. I will definitely continue with the series. I want to see what other trouble King and Maxwell will get into.
Michelle Maxwell and Sean King, both shining stars in their field, have something in common.
They both, as Secret Service Agents, were charged with protecting a presidential candidate when in a split second and eight years apart their careers collapse around them when they both lose their charges, one candidate is killed and the other is kidnapped.
Michelle seeks out Sean because of their similar stories and as they try to make sense of the facts they have the two combine efforts to find the kidnapped candidate before he is a dead candidate and answers to what really occurred and who is puling the strings.
