https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248787.The_World_Without_Us
If you are like me “The World Without Us” will cause you want to do one of two things.
I recommend it because (not only do I want to drag you down with me) of its important information.
The World Without Us examines what the earth would be like if man were to just disappear.
Turns out not very long geologically, but bronze statues and Barbie and Ken in the landfill will stand the test of time.
I don’t see this happening but, I do think maybe we should stop glorifying women who have litters of children.
Hopefully it's in a color that raptors enjoy.) The book is really about what we're doing to the planet, and how long our nefarious activities will outlast us.
It's tempting, when reading the book, to take the long view of things, that the Earth endures and that if we disappear from our own foolishness, it's no great loss.
and since dogs are the greatest things on the planet, it gives one pause.
the badness of all the bad shit we've done outweighs even the goodness of the dogs.
remember the dog situation) paradise.
http://www.churchofeuthanasia.org/these are some of my favorite people on the planet.
we'd live out our lives with each other and the dogs.
it'd be me, rosario, and five millions dogs traveling the globe, swimming in lakes climbing trees, rolling around on grassy fields...
at night the dogs would ball up together and create the world's largest and warmest mattress for me & my girl.
While it’s a fascinating premise, one that Weisman undoubtedly put a lot of time and effort into, the execution falters.
In reading this book it’s clear that Weisman realized that, a) that it’s strange to read a book without any people; and b) in order to predict the future, you must delve into the past.
It’s like when you see a science fiction movie: all the future computers are still based on the technology we have available now.
It seems like Alan Weisman realized it, too, as the hook chapters to each part are far more interesting than the remainder of each section (save the terse final part which is fairly solid throughout).
I'm not sure if it was the author's soporific style, or that I was let down by his overly repetitive rundown on floral succession: "asparagus and trumpet vine take hold as dingleberries and snorfle-weed provide shade..." Over and over; it felt like the author was attempting to display the fact that he did thorough investigation with environmental biologists and was flexing his bio street cred, After the first 4 times, the remaining 18 were overkill.I did learn that there's a voluntary human extinction movement, something I found interesting and hadn't heard of before.
But what humans leave behind will change the Earth as we know it, forever.Environmentalist have been fighting battles to save the planet for years but the damage has partially been done.
The author gives quite a bit of information about what effect non-biodegradables will have on every thing from plant life to animal life (remember, only humans have disappeared).The second huge consequence of human "progress" will be the nuclear missiles, power plants, and nuclear waste that remains with no one left to regulate it to prevent detonation.
Humans have already gotten a bit of a taste as to what might happen based on the Chernobyl accident.
Well written and researched exploration of the premise of how the world would change if humans suddenly disappeared from the earth.
The virtual disappearance of great Mayan cities into the jungle is another fascinating example of the ephemeral quality of civilizations.
A consideration of what human-made structures will last the longest turns up some surprises.
A nice coda to the book is a reflection on how the examples of human literature and music sent out of the solar system with the Voyager spacecraft will likely outlast the sun.Update Weisman is back on the job pondering Earth's fate with a follow-up that puts people back into the picture.
It simply proved his bias.Some of our changes to the environment are obvious & horrible, the best example being the ocean sinks & coral beds that are choked with plastics & other polymers.
These he condemns without fully discussing how much the exact composition really matters from the larger perspective, though.I'm no happier than he is about the extinction of the American Chestnut or Passenger Pigeon, but other species have taken their ecological niches, for better or worse.
Hydro-electric dams & wind turbines are never mentioned at all, yet he spends a lot of time pointing out that radio & cell towers kill possibly a billion birds each year with their flashing red lights, electromagnetic radiation, & guy wires.
I am disappointed that in spite of the tremendous scope, the book never manages to rise beyond the past and the present and truly explore its potential - that of imagining a post-human world, far into the future.
This was interesting and informative, but was not really the reason I started the book and was not what the dust jacket promised.But, despite the shortcomings or rather the under delivery, it still manages simultaneously to be a celebration of our existence, a warning about our imminent departure, a swan song for humanity, a warning for a world on the brink and also an evocative and imaginative pointer on our place in this world.
Unfortunately, in otherwise excellent work, a lot of potentials is given away, a weighting in favor of less unnecessary detail and more promised content would have done very well.Detaillierte Reise in eine wieder sehr naturverbundene, menschenleere Zukunft Eine Goldgrube an Ideen für durch Science Fiction- und Weltuntergansszenarien affektierte Leser, die die verschiedensten Aspekte des Zahnes der Zeit nach einem fiktionalen Aussterben der Menschen beschreibt.
Und in verhältnismäßig kurzer Zeit noch dazu, nach ein paar hundert bis paar tausend Jahren ist nicht mehr das Geringste übrig von den grandiosen Bauwerken der einstigen Krone der Schöpfung.Auch die Langzeitgrüße der Menschen an die Zukunft in Form von Industrieanlagen und Atomkraftwerken werden erläutert und der Aspekt hochgradig gefährlicher Auswirkungen von Fehlfunktionen und daraus resultierenden, massenhaften GAUs in gigantischen Industriekomplexen zählt zu einer der bemerkenswertesten Ideen des Werks.
The only creatures who are dependent on us for survival are the miniscule mites that live on and in our bodies, eating our dead skin cells before we suffocate in them, and nasty bacterias.This is not a doomsday book.
It's actually playfully optimistic, and is more of a history and science lesson than a judgement on our sins.
Some of it is downright scary, but I'm not one to put my head in the sand and expect someone else to take care of it all.If you're interested in history, science, environmentalism, impressing people at dinner parties with your knowledge or just plain interested: this is the book for you!
He gives the reader a vivid sense of wonder at the doings of the natural world, a palpable sense of awe at how our little detour on the course of history will be covered and gone, no matter what we wreak upon the planet.
The fact is, there is much included in “The World Without Us” that goes far toward explaining how discussion provoked by this book will surely feel like it is concerning an eventuality not quite as far away as might feel comfortable.
I don't think that humans are going anywhere in the near future so drawing conclusions from an scenario that will likely never happen seems a little bit masturbatory but at least among all the information in this book , there is some usefulness.
And I was surprised by the conclusion of the book where it stated that the one solution that would work both for nature an humanity is to restrict all females in the world to just one offspring.
A conclusion that while it would work pragmatically, I think it is at best a pipe dream .
He starts off pointing out how much human beings, since they left their African cradle, have changed their environment; one illustration being the mass animal extinctions, due to human development, that have already taken place since prehistorical times (e.g. the giant proboscideans of the Holocene).
What will become of our intellectual and artistic legacy?Weisman has travelled the world to find some answers, from New-York to the Panama Canal, from Korea to Cyprus and from Houston to the atolls of the Pacific Ocean, and overall his research is well documented albeit easy to read… What I take away from this book is that, should we suddenly depart, we would leave the Earth in a pretty disastrous state.
So us westerners have left depleted uranium with a half life of 4.5 billion years all over Iraq and expect them to like us?
How could I have not given thought to armour piecing weaponry that leaves radiation traces of a half life of 4.5 billion years.
Did I mention a half life of 4.5 billion years?
Did I say that those weapons we have been using in the middle east leave radiation with a half life of 4.5 billion years?
The World Without Us - Alan Weismanماذا لو انقرض البشر يومًا ما؟كيف ستتعامل الطبيعة مع هذا؟ كيف ستعي
The answer, according to that book was that the main, and probably only long lasting, detectable impact that humans will have on earth, is the species that went extinct due to humans.
This book gave me an answer concerning the long term impact of humans on earth.
While we are (fully justified) concerned about the impact we have on the planet, it's weather, life and environment, after we are gone, everything will be erased, and nature will repossess the planet.
I think that this is one that I will have to read again myself at some point, because I feel like it's one that I would need to really take my time with, and absorb.
I kind of already think that people are jerks, and this book did nothing to dispel that notion.
Parts of this book were just so mind-blowing to me that I feel ashamed of humanity.
Millions and millions of years to decrease by HALF.
I sincerely hope that people read this book, and think about it.
On the surface, this clever book describes what the world would be like if humans were to suddenly disappear from the face of the earth.
Interestingly, our longest-lasting legacy will probably be the radio signals transmitted into space.But the majority of this engaging book is really about ecology.
The earth's natural ecology would heal much of the damage wrought by humans.
But certain types of damage will be difficult to heal; the oceanic spread of plastics will take geologic time scales to disperse.
And the scariest of all is the nuclear by-products, some of which will stick around even over geologic time scales.
هل تخيلت يوما العالم من دون دوننا؟يساعدك هذا الكتاب علي تخيل ذلك بصورة علمية؟هل تستطيع الطبيعة القيا
Fascinating. Just amazing and scary.
How nature has taken hold of the DMZ in Korea is good; even better was the unexpected equivalent in Cyprus, where the description of suddenly abandoned buildings is haunting.Some portions would better be described by the title The World We’ve Really Screwed Up. It is understandable, of course: while researching how things will be after we’re gone, the author must have done a great deal of research into how things got that way, and some of those stories are juicy.
This was my first time listening to a nonfiction book, naturally there were some reservations, mainly…would it be dynamic enough to prompt outside time.
The way nature would move in to repossess its own, the way the world would continue unobserved and uncaring, finally freed.
Really fascinating reading and so very informative.
It’s the best sort of educational material, the kind that’s accessibly written (yes, miraculously enough even chemistry) and entertainingly presented.
Terrific book, one of the best ones I’ve read recently, significant, intelligent, important.
Although this seems like the sort of book that ought to be read, more so than listened to.
The sacry thing about the book is that when reading about how humans have dissappeared and nature reclaims her property, I'm not thinking 'how terrible', I'm thinking 'how wonderful'.
Weisman delves into many scientific areas and talks to extremely interesting and truly specialized people to explore questions ranging from: what happens to major cities like New York, to what happens to wildlife like birds or farm animals, what happens to nuclear plants and waste, what happens to our artifacts, like art, plastics, heavy metals, piping systems, bridges, petrochemical plants, etc, etc.The scariest fact: did you know that the wind and waves erode plastic like it does rocks, ie, into little bits of silicon or plastic sand?
Birds were found dead with enough plastic accumulated in their intestines that equates to several pounds if in a human being.
Instead, Weisman uses the device of the "thought experiment": what would happen to the planet if humans *poof* simply disappeared.
There has never been a situation where–especially in the face of annihilation–those with power and resources have not wielded them to their own advantage, to the extent of overtaking and enslaving those without.So, I struggled with the premise, and before humans are wiped from the face of the earth, I wonder how much more damage we will do, not just to each other but to our home planet.
There’s some good stuff on places where humans don’t go, which are proving to be wildlife sanctuaries even when they’re utterly radioactive.But mostly, I think I hoped for a bit more of the future, and a bit less of the past and present.
Of course, the past can tell us what some environments used to be like without human intervention, or after specific types of human intervention.
But I still hoped for a bit more about the future, what kinds of animals might thrive, what it might look like.If you’re already depressed by what humans have been up to, this will make you feel worse.
Even if you took out all the stuff about what will happen to the world when we are gone, this would still be a fantastic book.
I'm glad the author didn't tiptoe around the overpopulation issue.
So many people are afraid of stepping on toes with this topic, but population growth is exponential, folks!!
By the time people recognize crisis, it may be too late.
The amount of travel and research he did for this book is truly impressive.
I'm glad I got my own copy so I didn't have to race through a library book.
I've been reading this for a few months, a few pages at a time. It was simultaneously uplifting and depressing, and I really learned some things.Life pro tip: in the event of the Rapture, don't try to get to New York. The subway tunnels will be flooded in a day or two, and it won't take that long for things to come crashing down.And a lot depends on whether the guys at all the refineries on the Gulf Coast have time to turn things off or not.
It is true that disasters like Chernobyl happened and we scarred the land for a long time into the future and yet while the present offers bleak hopes, Weisman does not dwell for long on the future.
Also, at a time when 2016 has been titled as the hottest year in recorded history it is rather farfetched to imagine the earth as a green paradise in the future.What it might have beenIn the broader scheme of things human beings are immaterial to this planet.
I would have adored this book if Weisman began with an extrapolation of the points he understands from the experts and recreated a vision of the world a few centuries from now.
At the risk of being platitudinous, this book is no fine wine.The literary world is definitely instep with our current go-green zeitgeist and, as past president of Earlham's Environmental Action Committee and as someone whose economic footprint is minimal, I am quite pleased.
That being said, there are a handful of books in the green vein with which I actually can interface with pleasure--the best among them being Jared Diamond's wonderful novel, "Collapse".Weisman has done what so many before him have done: He went out into the field and gathered opinions from experts instead of overtly forming an opinion himself.
Instead, I felt like I was constantly sifting through Weisman's raw data.
