https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1043837.Know_Why_You_Believe
This book looks at the twelve most-asked questions in a university setting that Paul Little encountered during his many years of ministry with Intervarsity Fellowship.
Is Christ God?4.
Is the Bible God's Word?6.
Is Christian Experience Valid?Expecting this book to echo many of the same themes and arguments found in Lee Strobel's "The Case for Christ" and "The Case for Faith," as well as Timothy Keller's "The Reason for God," all of which are excellent.
It is always encouraging and instructive for me to review the essential Christian answers to the most profound questions.
I read, well, listened to this book for school-- it is jam packed with lots of interesting and great arguments and knowledge!
Paul Little takes 12 simple, common questions that both believers and nonbelievers ask about Christianity and, chapter by chapter, expounds on and answers those questions in an easy to understand manner.
Required reading for Christians and an excellent book for seekers and scoffers alike.
Favorite quotes: “It is improbable that anyone thought up, last week, a question that will bring Christianity crashing.
Merely believing it doesn’t make it true.
Disbelieving it doesn’t make it untrue.” “Peace comes when we recognize that in this life we do not have the full picture.
If God were just, or if there was a thing as divine justice, then that justice would look like everyone getting their just reward according to their good deeds and bad deeds.Little then says the most interesting thing to me in the book: "To see the logical consequences of Mill's "exact reward" concept of God in his dealings with man, we need only turn to Hinduism."And by turning to Hinduism, and the lands effected by Hinduism, we are looking at "laboratories of theology." What are the results of this "exact reward" atheological experiment when the people believe that the god of the universe creates a system based on the thought of John Stuart Mill?
Maybe this book would have been more enjoyable if I hadn’t been forced to listen to mindless dorks in my class read it slower than molasses in January.
Paul answers many common questions and gives reasoning behind your faith.
The Bible is a very hard book to understand at times and can raise a lot of questions for a new believer.
One of my favorite questions this book answers is why does God allow suffering and evil?
Paul says that God allows those things because it is part of His will which is totally separate from our own.
The book is great for any Christian who has questions about their faith; which we all do at times.
Little presents and the questions he answers are like your own.
The book would be good for new Christians or those wanting a basic introduction to Christian apologetics. Many of the arguments would not withstand modern skeptics, but it is a good primer for thinking through the issues.
I finished it. But just barely.I don't know if this book is bad or if I'm just unconvinced by apologetics generally...
I always read the bad reviews of a book after I finish it to gain a fresh perspective, so I did the same with this.
I noticed they're the typical "such a bad argument" responses, but I have yet to see such a review present reasons for those assertions.
I appreciated this book because it reminded me of the importance of not taking beliefs merely at face-value, and always understanding them in their historical contexts.
Ideas have beginnings, and it's important to revisit the roots of beliefs we so easily take for granted, whether they be religious or secular.
A(n extremely) thorough study of apologetics with a generous amount of references taken both from scripture and theologians.
I wish I would read Know Why You Believe slower, as the author put an immense amount of effort into forming his arguments in favor of Christianity.My favorite chapter would definitely be on the subjects of sin and suffering.
Paul Little covered the chapter with graciousness and passion, fully acknowledging how messed up our world is.
"God's pledge is not that suffering will never afflict us but that it will never separate us from His love." - Little stated, and I don't think I've seen that truth written in such a concise manner.
Loved reading this book! I especially liked how the author defended Jesus' resurrection. If Jesus wasn't raised from the dead then the whole point of Christianity is lost. But did Jesus really rise up? How would we know for sure? I like the arguments that Paul Little puts forward.I think it's a great book to read if you're struggling with the faith and trying to balance subjective experience and objective fact.
Paul Little's strength is in asking thought-provoking questions and phrasing things in interesting and personal ways. I used this book, along with his Know What You Believe: Connecting Faith and Truth, as a textbook for my grade 11 Doctrine class. It works well as a discussion starter and to get young students to think about these topics in ways that may not have occurred to them before.
This gives you the basics of faith and where they are found in scripture. This book was originally written in 1966 so some of the statements are a little dated, but much of the work still rings true. This may be a good book for new believers because it covers the basics of a lot of faith questions.
A great, succinct treatment of the basic questions of faith - by a writer who has devoted his life to discussing these matters with university students. Though does not deal with any issue in extreme depth, it provides well-reasoned answers to the basic issues of faith, Scripture, Christ, science, comparative religions, etc.
I first bought and read this book in high school. Since then I have reread the same copy of this book half a dozen times perhaps. Not only has it become a treasure from my youth, but its teaching helps me to indeed know why I believe. It is a great tool for explaining your faith too.
This is a good overview of general Christian Apologetics. It's a little shallow in spots. But like a good appetizer, it will leave you wanting more. Thankfully, there's a feast awaiting those who move from this book to the main course!
A great single volume covering the most common apologetics issues. Well written and as through as one could expect in a single book. All young believers would be well served by picking up this book or one of similar ilk. ⭐⭐⭐ of ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
A great single volume covering the most common apologetics issues. Well written and as through as one could expect in a single book. All young believers would be well served by picking up this book or one of similar ilk. ⭐️⭐️⭐️ of ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
It wasn't a bad book at all, but it covered the exact same ground that so many others cover that it's hard to find anything that stands out. It's good to know the basic apologetic for the Christian faith and what evidence is out there, but I would say there are better books.
I enjoyed this primer on the most common question asked about Christianity. It's well-reasoned, but accessible. It's another one I listened too.
The fundamental basic of belief. Not a lot of meat on the bones with the one.
I read this book on a suggested to read book. I'm glad I did there where some valid points made and some good arguments to ponder. I'm going to get the audio version for my husband to listen to.
Made my brain hurt at times. Definitely loved slowly making it through this one. Worth rereading a chapter here and there down the road.
Good book - more of a resource than a cover to cover read. Each chapter focuses on a common/typical question about Christianity.
Thought provoking answers to common questions/objections to Christianity. Well organized and easy to read.
This was a wonderful treatment on apologetics.
This book is a fantastic read for Christians and non-Christians alike.
It is an easy to understand form of questions and answers to some of life's biggest questions especially as they relate to faith, world religions, and belief in God. Christians should read this book to grasp better why they believe what they believe so they can share it more effectively with others.
Those who are not Christians should read just so they can know what Christianity is about in a non-threatening, easy to grasp format.Within the book, the author answers a different question in each chapter such as "Is there a God?", "Did Christ Rise from the Dead?", "Do Science and Scripture Agree?", "Is the Bible God's Word?", "Are Miracles Possible?", and "Does Archaeology Verify Scripture?" to name just a few.
It hits the sort of stuff covered in a class like Contemporary Christian Belief at a school like Taylor University.Little faces questions like:-is Christianity rational?-is there a God?-is Christ God?-did Christ rise from the dead?-is the Bible God's word?-are the Bible documents reliable?-does archaeology verify Scripture?-are miracles possible?-do science and Scripture agree?-why does God allow suffering and evil?-does Christianity differ from other world religions?-is Christianity experience valid?Little answers the questions ably.
I'm sure there are counterarguments he did not answer, and rebuttals to the rebuttals, etc.
Like another book I recently reviewed, this book could serve as a springboard into research of any topic listed above.
This book was recommended by our church for small group studies and we were excited to get into it.
The discussion questions were okay, not great.
We just went with what people wanted to talk about and didn't try to cover all of them, which would have been burdensome.The tone was questionable in some cases (seemed simplistic, don't you see it, condescending).
In the end, I personally found group members much more stimulating than the book.
After working through a few chapters during our summer study, we abandoned it for something new in the fall.
I could not recommend it.
A great starting place for studying apologetics. Paul Little spent years on college campuses answering tough questions from students about the Christian faith and has filtered it down to twelve commonly asked questions, devoting one chapter to each in this book. Whether you're looking to arm yourself with knowledge, strengthen an existing faith or simply engage in some thought provoking theology, this is a great down-to-earth look at the Christian faith. And as Little says in his own words, yes, the gospel can successfully be defended in the open market place of ideas without kissing your brains good-by.
This is an excellent book for either the Christian who is researching their own faith or for the non-Christian who is looking into the "why" of the Christian faith. It presents the logical, historical, philosophical, and archaeological supports for Christianity in concise manner and with clearly delineated topics. It is a small book and a quick read, and it includes a list of more in-depth sources as an appendix, for anyone who wishes to delve further into any of the topics.
