https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/723438.The_Tale_of_the_1002nd_Night
Um fresco em filigrana,da vacuidade, superficialidade e palermice sociais. A forma como Joseph Roth constrói personagens de vidro, frágeis, vazias,ocas e ... realistas, é incontornável. Tornei-me fã instantâneo do autor,e a feira do livro, hoje, alimentou a vontade.
Mille e una sono le favole che la bella Sherazade racconta al sultano Harun al Rashid per avere salva la vita.
Il denaro, le donne, le sue proprietà sono solo cose che gli scivolano addosso senza importanza per lui.
Attorno a lui ruotano la signora Matzner, tenutaria di una casa di tolleranza, una donna avida, infida e cattiva; e la giovane Mizzi, innamorata del barone e che cercherà di coinvolgerlo nella sua rete fino alla fine.
C’è solo una fine possibile a questa notte.
Correct, without him we would not have had some very important elements in the story, but it could as well have been the King of Farawayland.When Roth picks this frame for his tale, it is more a matter of making the scene recognizable to his audience.Nevertheless, the Persian Shah is a mirror to our antihero Baron Taittinger.To a degree, they are both bored stiff with their life, the first has total power and in the long run it is not fun to have everything you like when you feel you have tried it all before.The latter is a man of convenience, not without means or influence but unable to see any real meaning with life and perhaps most important, not very good at attaching himself to anyone.Going with the flow, occasionally picking the fruits of others´ labor and not really paying attention to what tomorrow may bring.
Οι τρεις λέξεις που είπα με την ολοκλήρωση της ανάγνωσης: έξοχο, έξοχο, έξοχο!
Like Radetzky March and The Emperor's Tomb, it is set during the twilight years of the Austria-Hungarian Empire, and although the trajectories of the main characters' lives are tragic, Roth wrote the story with a light hand.
In this relatively short span of time he wrote more than a dozen novels, a book's worth of short stories and novellas, and several volumes of journalism and essays.
There is nothing in his oeuvre that I would not recommend -- Roth's insights into the times in which he lived, and the hearts and minds of people of both "...the 'beau' monde, the 'demi-monde' and the underworld" is always illuminating and interesting, and his writing always concise, humorous and often elegant.
The characters don't have enough will power to change their unhappy circumstances.
The novel is pessimistic to the core: when you think that finally there might be a solution and that these people might change, they are all quick to return to their original ineptness.
However, their unhappiness, whilst fed by their own inability to cope, finds its origins in the caprices and follies of powerful men.
Thus, like a pyramid of responsibility, you realise what happens when the people who lead, those who ought to be good and virtuous, turn petty and cruel.
But The String of Pearls is set in the nineteenth century, and so it tells of another world now lost – the court life of Old Vienna – but by binding such loss to more contemporary losses and fears, Roth turns his novel into a requiem for all.The Shah of Persia has come to Vienna.
Roth’s prose is sweeping and expansive – it takes in high society and the prisons, happiness to loss – and it is exemplified by the love, or lack of love, between Mizzi and Captain Taittinger, whose story forms the spine of his quite wonderful novel.For what is such a brief looking novel (just 250 pages), Roth manages to encompass a whole lost world.
The novel weaves realism and fairy-tale elements together in seamless, edgy ways that keep us from getting too close to characters and from judging them.
It is as if we are to read the circumstances of each character with the same helplessness they feel at each step of the way.
No one in "The Tale" can get enough traction to change the course of history in a meaningful way, and though this is a comic novel in tone, it isn't hard to sense the clouds of a gathering storm of unimaginable proportions.
Me gustó bastante. Cruel, lenta y con bastante de cuento oriental
Secondo me, è proprio questo il fine ultimo di Roth: dipinge una serie di personaggi "negativi" perché è quello che il popolo vuole e richiede - non a caso, infatti, il romanzo si conclude con una battuta emblematica.Il personaggio di cui l'autore si serve per dare voce alla saggezza, invece, è il primo eunuco dello Scià che sembra essere l'unico a conoscere la vera natura dell'uomo perché, come dice al suo signore e padrone, è castrato.Ho deciso di dargli tre stelline perché mi piace il modo in cui le vicende si susseguono e si intrecciano fin quasi a confondere il lettore, nonostante la trama non sia poi così complicata.
In the spring of the year 18——, the Shah-in-Shah, the great, exalted and holy monarch, the absolute ruler and overlord of all the lands of Persia, began to feel a sense of malaise of a kind he had never experienced before.And so begins Joseph Roth's novel, The String of Pearls.
The String of Pearls has an enormous number of characters for such a small book and it is from this point in the novel that it became a bit disorienting for me as I was no longer sure who was the main focus of the book; we switch from Mizzi to Matzner to the Baron to a writer called Lazik and back to the Baron.
Not as engaging as "Rebellion," but Roth's dismal world view is certainly here in all its glory. It does not seem to me that the story is meant to showcase that view (like "Rebellion" does) - instead, I think that the story is relating and examining the end of Hapsburg society (and its ilk), especially in regards to the aristocracy vis-à-vis the common people. The glum view of people just comes along for the ride (not that I necessarily disagree with Roth's sentiments).
Der Schah von Persien ist in Wien, verliebt sich in eine junge Dame und verlangt, dass die ihm zugeführt wird. Und da muss ein armes Double ran. Hört sich nett an, ist es auch ein wenig, aber doch hauptsächlich sehr bieder und öde. (5/10)
Это, в сущности, точно такая же книжка, как «Марш Радецкого», тем и прекрасна.
Krásně napsaný příběh z Vídně. Vlídně a střídmě. Roth je jazykový kouzelník.
The premise of the novel is the visit to Vienna by the Shah of Persia (as Iran was then called) during the 1870s.
This is based on a historical visit by the Shah to Europe about that time.
Sandwiched between the Shah's first and second visits, two decades apart, the novel recounts the events set in motion among certain Austrian characters who come in contact with the Shah.
Roth uses this premise to explore the decadent society that he nevertheless loved, even while he was able to explore its cyniicism with an ironic wit.
In Persia sono state scritte le novelle delle 1001 notte, e Roth ci regala invece quella che dovrebb
And I more than appreciated it, which always (to me) sounds like a polite way of describing a classic that one didn’t really like but doesn’t want to say that because, hey, it’s a classic.
This novel’s events hinge around a visit by the Shah of Persia to Vienna in the late nineteenth century.
The story traces how a variety of people’s lives change because of this visit, and while it’s not exactly a happy story, it’s a fascinating tapestry (and, by the standards of bleak classical literature, this one’s almost happy go lucky).
But Joseph Roth isn’t the sort of author I love.


nat har ikke samme format som andre af Roths bøger.
Den rummer ikke samme overbevisende eksistentielle smerte som Job og har heller ikke den poetiske tone som Roths noveller.
Den har en satirisk-ironisk kant, som minder om Radetzkymarch, men mangler dennes historiske swung.Dermed ikke sagt, at Den 1002.
Det er en lettere sag, nærmest en komedie, men ikke uden satirisk bid og er i det hele taget præget af Roths sikre hånd (selv om den også bliver lidt lang i spyttet i passager).
Det virker som om, Roth har tilladt sig selv at lege lidt mere i denne roman, som blev hans sidste.Læs hele anmeldelsen på K's bognoter: http://bognoter.dk/2015/02/20/joseph-...
Uno degli ultimi romanzi dello scrittore e giornalista austriaco, "La milleduesima notte" appare quasi in bilico tra la dimensione del testamento spirituale e la profezia apocalittica sui destini e l'eredità di un mondo, l'Austria dell'ormai ex Impero Absburgico, che nel 1939, anno di uscita del libro, sta per essere inghiottito da un baratro ancora più profondo del precedente, la follia nazista dell'Anschluss e della seconda guerra mondiale. Continua su http://ghettodeilettori.blogspot.com/...
Joseph Roth é impiedoso e mordaz na sua análise da melancólica, aburguesada e decadente sociedade austríaca do fim do Império Austro-Húngaro, brilhantemente corporizada pelo inútil Barão Taittinger. Com ele e mais umas quantas personagens densas, este romance popular é um cordel de episódios divertidos e sádicos que acontecendo num contexto, capturam na verdade certos aspectos intemporais de qualquer sociedade humana.
I really enjoyed this novel, but was expecting more from the ending, which just fizzled out and didn't seem to have any conclusion. It had a nice circular plot, with all the characters from the start drawn together in the same place at the finale, yet the finale lacked power. I really liked the character of Baron Taittinger, and Roth's descriptive prose.
A frothy, enjoyable exercise that starts out Wodehousian and ends up Wharton-ian, if Wharton's characters perceived their lives as a constant mixture of confusion and despair. Ultimately maybe a bit glib for my taste, but the sense it conveys of spending one's life grasping at something that seems just beyond reach, and not quite understanding why, seemed pretty profound and true.
The Shah of Persia, a beautiful countess, a look-alike-lady-of-the-night, her madame, a eunuch, an opportunistic baron, and an ambitious editor converge in 19th century Vienna for what is best described by translator, Michael Hofmann as "an index of folly and alienation" in this novel by Joseph Roth.
While the initial premise of the Persian Shah's visit to Vienna may seem odd for Roth, the tale as it develops is not at all out of character. Low life, high life, the disappointments of life even among the "titled".
Pat ja dažas lietas lasot nesagāja kopā, jūtu, ka pārlasīšana to atrisinātu. Aizraujošs un dziļš 19. gs. Vīnes sabiedrības šķērsgriezums.
Coenowie w c.k. Monarchii
Qué personaje más extrañamente entrañable: Taittinger. Leí la versión en español.
