https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/765281.Lady_and_the_Tramp
This is one of the very first books I read.
A cute bedtime read for Minnie
The illustrations are colorful and children could tell the story through the pictures.Learning Experience:When Lady was out on her own and she encountered some dogs she didn't know she was scared and ran away.
It is important for children to know the safe way to approach a strange dog.
To start this activity ask the children how many dogs they know, are they afraid of dogs, and has a dog ever scared them.
Let the children know not to run or scream with excitement when they see a dog.
1.) Ask owner permission to touch dog.
Lady and the tramp is another classic told through the story and could be read within the age ranges of about: 8-14.
This book tells the story of two dogs fall in love.
This book ensures that best friends can come when you least expect and things happen unexpectedly.
This book is a great story of how to not think too much, because things happen when you least expect them to.
A lot of the times in a future classroom I'm sure that things are going to happen that will be beneficial to me ensuring that the classroom is a great place to learn.
Awesome! This one I don't have but a different one from Disney! I recommend that you get it but if you don't like Disney you follow your mind and see if its like: later or not really. I say YES that you should get it.
The book I learned to read from in 1980. It changed my life.
A classic in books. One of my favorites. I read this to my son for his daily reading time.
I'm just in love with this story and movie 仇벒잺
I loved this book. The scalawag (Tramp) taking the debutante (Lady) to an alley for spaghetti. Again, the best memory is of my mother reading to me.
"This is the night!" I love this love story about two opposites of the dog world. This is one of the best Disney film adaptation books.
The songs in this book/record (which I played on my SHOW-N-TELL) were AMAZING! The scotty dog song, the tramp song... come on. COME ON.
My children loved this book and now my grandchildren love it too.I remember taking my children to see the movie years ago and would you believe I cried.What am I like I ask you?
GB 86 (3)
I enjoyed this movie as a child because I could relate the characters to my real life events.
My family had just found our first dog so I was super excited to read this book.
Young children can appreciate a book more if they can relate to characters in it.
I will have this in my classroom because it is just one example of a story that has characters that children see in real life.
It can be entertaining to watch a movie all about dogs if the student can relate to having one in real life.
Esto es lo que mas amo de tener a mi hermanita peque침a! ella me hace recordar mis 칠pocas de infancia! y me hace re-leer estos viejos cl치sicos que me acompa침aron muchas tardes y me iniciaron en el camino de la lectura! A pesar de ser una historia sencilla nos ense침a de peque침os que los sue침os no deben olvidarse, y que el amor no conoce de l칤mites ni impedimentos. Todos debemos luchar por lo que amamos y hacer frente a cualquier desaf칤o! Solo es cuesti칩n de sentir!
Lady & the Tramp: Adapted by: Teddy SlaterThis book is a tale of two lovers from different backgrounds and how they become friends. I would use this book to show children that we are all the same and can all benefit from friendship no matter where we come from or what we look like. This book would go well with activities made from the social-emotional domain.
This is one of the worlds classic stories and taken and put into a childrens book. This book uses smaller words and vocabulary that give the younger readers a chance to learn and grow on their own. This classic story enables readers to connect without even having been read. Children will love this classic book.
I chose this book because Lady and the Tramp was such a great movie growing up. The book correlates with the movie well. The book was for older kids because of the smaller sized pictures and lots of words on each page. Many of the Walt Disney movies are made into books by The Little Golden Series.
7/23 Time: 60 minutes 7 words: rich /family / dog/ adventure / trouble /love / happy Discussion Question: Have you ever involved some accidents in your visit place?When I went to Boston, I and my host family were involved car accident.I like this story so much. When I was child, I watched this many times. Because I have this video.
Dama i skitnica je ne코to romanti캜no kako su dva psa zaljubljeni prijatelji. Onaj dio kada ju prijatelj odvede na 코pageti,kad ju spasi iz 코interaja ja i sve druge knjige ovo je ne코to predivna. Ne코to tako romanti캜no i mal캜ice tu쬹o zato jer joj zlo캜esta teta stavi brnjicu ali dabar joj pomogne skinuti brnjicu. 游뱅游땘
One of my favorites as a child - had to purchase it for our home library! The classic story of the guy from the wrong side of the tracks and an elegant debutante falling in love! And they lived happily ever after!
Disney Magical Stories5/2 20minDogs, Family, Baby, Trouble, Love, Help, HappyQ. Have you ever experienced any adventures?A. Yes, when I was a child, I often went to anywhere I had not gone with my friends!I love this story and I would often watch this video.So this is very memorable :)
And written adaptation of Disney classic animation, so I don't need to say that the pictures are beautiful and the story is faithful to the animation. <3I think this is one of the most wonderful plots i've ever layed my eyes on <3
My sister and I both agreed Lady was the most BEEOOTIFUL girl in the world. We were 5 and 3. I still think Lady is beeootiful. Tramp, not so much.
Such a sweet and timeless tale. The only issue I have with this book is that the ending is completely different from the movie.
This is a book version of the Disney film.
Lady a Tramp jsou jedn칤m z m칳ch nejobl칤ben캩j코칤ch Disney p치r콢.Jak j치 jsem je milovala(st치le miluji).Pro romanti캜ku jako j치 je tenhle p콏칤b캩h jedn칤m z nejkouzeln캩j코칤ch ;)
A cute adaptation of the Disney classic.
Cute book about two dogs that fall in love, it follows the story we all of Lady and the Tramp, a great book for young children who are learning about fairy tails.
i love it
