https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156808.Mystery_in_the_Sand
We listened to this book on CD on a long car ride with the kids (12 and 15.) The 12 year old chose the mystery because the beach in the book matched the setting of our trip.
That never bothered them before.They ended up, to entertain themselves, acting out the parts of the story while in the backseat of the car.I must say that this mystery is very mild compared to the others that we enjoyed on this trip - Father Gilbert, Sherlock Holmes - and is undoubtedly for younger children.
I've given up wondering why the Boxcar children aren't usually chaperoned, although, by this time in the series, Henry is old enough to be driving a car.
They are staying in a mobile home on the beach while their aunt and uncle, who own it, are away travelling.
On their first morning they befriend an older man, Mr. Lee, walking on the beach with his dog, and discover that the strange object he carries is a metal detector.When Mr. Lee allows Benny to try the device, he discovers a locket, and the children try to find the owner using clues the locket provides.
When the children go stay in their aunt and uncle's trail home on the beach, that's when they meet an old man ,and his dog.
They used the mans metal-finder .They find a gold locket that side on the R.L. Then they see a big 5 tower house.
They want to know how lives there,but is what they about the person who lives there may shock them ,and is what they hare true or not.When they do see that there a lot of stories about the people how live there and that they are vary nice,shy people that did not like people.
I love this touching story of 4 children in the boxcar children.
There were no suspects, the Aldens just needed to find who the old locket belonged to.At first, they think it belongs to someone in the Tower House, and it does, just not who they think it should be.As a clue, there is also a fire behind the house.
But as if, only for a short amount of time, the owner of the house comes out to thank them.Soon they find out it belongs to the short, plump artist in the house, Ruth Lane.
They have lunch and give the locket back to her.I thought this book was pretty good!
This was a fun read-there was a bit more character depth, and the mystery was more interesting than usual. It was also fun to see Violet featured more prominently in the story-usually she barely gets to speak, but this time she was the heroine! Still a fun read for children, and the magic is still there-this book even rekindled the series for me a bit. I would recommend to children working to break into chapter books-or those already into the series.
I wonder if Grandfather Alden's wealth was why they always met such famous people. Did he purposely send them to those places? In any case....they're always being intrusive in sweet ways in people's lives and radically changing things. They solved All The Things including secret decade long heartaches. Of course. ;) If only real life were like that.
This one seemed a little cutesy and pat for the earlier Boxcar Children books, but was pretty solid compared to some of the stuff that came in the late 90s and 00s. Not my favorite, but not horrible.
A very good mystery, another case of misunderstanding. I very much enjoyed this story and look forward to getting the next one.
Great book .
A good series for the young reader.
JEAR3-War
love it
My children and I enjoyed this audio story while we drove, but oh my, the woman who narrated it sounded just like Steve Urkel when she did Benny's voice.
great my second favorite
Such a good series!!
This one had me smiling from cover to cover. Oh the feels.
Loved this series when I was younger. I owned every book out at the time. My four year old liked this book and hopefully she will enjoy the rest as much as I did.
Good story as the Boxcar Children solve another mystery on the beach. When Benny finds an old locket in the sand, the children immediately set out to find its one. Easy read for 2nd & 3rd grades.
Warner, Gertrude C. PB
the girl was siting in the sand
great when ur little
not my level
it's a rat mystery!
JF War
Good book
So cute and adorable
The mystery wasn’t as intriguing as some of the other stories in the series, but it’s still a good story.
I know these kids go everywhere but who in their right minds allow them to go off this often by themselves.
my favorite character was Benny cause he loves to eat like me nothing surprised me i would not change the ending
This book is a graphic novel spinoff of the popular series, the Boxcar Children.
They go on a search for the owner and are led to the Tower House, which is mysterious and empty.
The next day, Violet saved a kitten from being hit by a car, and it turns out the kitten belonged to the owners of the Tower House.
The Aldens become close with the owners, and receive gifts from them as a thank you.
It may be because I do not enjoy graphic novels altogether.
As a kid, I absolutely loved reading the Boxcar Children, but I would much rather read them in a chapter book format.
