https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22623.Existentialism_and_Human_Emotions
This is a 5-star book, with one small condition: Find the page with the chapter title "Existentialist Psychoanalysis", locate a pair of scissors, and cut it out, along with every page after it.
After taking the time to so wonderfully lay down his pillars of existentialism in the first 2/3 of the book, with emphasis on "forlornness, anguish, and despair" of YOU being the ONLY ONE who defines your own existence, the only one who gives it meaning, and that NOBODY can help you make your most important decisions in life; Sartre then flippantly suggests that a new form of "existentialist psychoanalysis" should provide easy answers.
I'm just going to pretend that some perverted Freudian fanboy slipped the last chapters in right before it went to press, and those were never really Sarte's thoughts.
This one is a goodin.
Jean-Paul Sartre is one of the greatest free thinkers in modern history.
I didn't care much for philosophy until I became curious about it from watching the Big Lebowski.
Unsure I hit up the book store looking for answers.
Sartre was top of the list at the book store.
This book is a quick enthralling read.
For like minded individuals this book will read like the inner workings of your own mind.
The lonesome world becomes at one inside your head.
Pick other Sartre books to delve deeper into the philosophic world.
Anyway, the overall theme of the book was good, and in a lot of respects it does do a good job of defining and analyzing human emotions through existentialist thought.
The way this book is written, and the examples used throughout are trashy.
What I am saying is that perhaps if read in French, or instead of read actually discussed with Sartre, the ideas would be more vividly understood.
One thing is for certain, Sartre may have been a great thinker, but Camus shamed him when it came to actually expressing concepts in the written/translated form, and after all, isn't that how we know the existentially ideas?
An excellent primer by the father of Existentialist philosophy.
Sartre's concept is at the same time simple and radical: man is fully responsible for what happens in the world.
We are moral artisans, painting actions on the world's canvas.
Yet the existentialist is overwhelmed by anguish (that everything I do essentially sets a standard, since none exist apriori) and despair (that there's no outside system or authority to which I can appeal when acting in the world).
From a moral standpoint: is "everything permissible" in a world where we are freed from the yolk of pre-enlightenment religious doctrine?
Sartre argues to the contrary.
It is mostly that he just takes himself so seriously that you have to laugh at times, especially when he starts using terms like the being-in-itself-for-itself-of-itself.
At one point, I thought "Jean-Paul, if you say 'a priori' one more time..." Of course, he used it about 100 more times after that.
And then, of course, I always end up thinking about the fact that he and Camus split hairs at some point.
Still, there are a few ideas here that made the whole thing worth trudging through.
It isn't really that long a book, after all...but sometimes it feels like it.
Some parts I found very interesting, while other part were extremely convoluted. His take on existential psychoanalysis was intriguing, and seemed to revolve around introspection. The last chapter almost seemed like nonsense to me. Fortunately, the entire book is fairly short. This means that all parts, including the ones where Sartre's philosophy seems closer to the rhetoric of Socrates than existentialism, are quickly over.
One of the more 'approachable' books by JPS. Foundation for “existence precedes essence” is presented and explained. - key to open other 'doors' to JPS complex philosophy.
Did he believe we'd all change our human nature and give up excuses as a result of his writings?
That might be fine, and good even, but somehow I have my doubts about this taking place.He also says that my choices should speak for everyone [god forbid!].
Did he write a book about what the world would look like if we were all existentialists?
I think we need a new philosophy, one that's realistic and accounts for real human behavior.
Only a political philosophy incorporating human psychology is capable of changing the world, not just words, not just rhetoric.
In my new home,one day I was spending time thinking about free people, and affectively bounded choices that seemingly contradict freedom according to some, and choosing silently.
Not any more.It was hard to get in to the first essay, Existentialism, but once in, it was hard to stay outside of it: says something relevant to method -so if you have a question about the worth of participant research designs, that gives you a good deal to think about: how do you know?
If I leave out that essay, this is a book that will stay with me, together with its controversial twists about freedom and being doomed.
Although I don't entirely agree with his philosophy the main section of this book (which is, I believe, the text of a speech he gave) illustrated Sartre's though in an easily digestible way.
The later sections, which are excerpts from the massive Being and Nothingness are almost totally incomprehensible (probably in part because they're taken out of context, but probably also because they're from a massive philosophical tome instead of a speech).
Um, but yes, I'm not really qualified to judge the usefulness of this book, really, since I don't know anything about Sartre or if this is a good representation of his thought.
این اثر سارتر با نام های مختلف و مترجمان مختلف به فارسی برگردانده شده که به گمان من از همه بهتر "اگزیستانسیالیزم و اصالت بشر" ترجمه ی مصطفی رحیمی ست که در 1344 توسط انتشارات مروارید منتشر شده استدر مورد ژان پل سارتر، مطلبی جداگانه نوشته ام؛ http://www.goodreads.com/author_blog_...
It was a hard read. The thing I feel is the contradiction all the claims made by Satre about freedom of human actions with finding in sciences, typically, neurosciences. It is a good practice for the mind, trying to understand the logic, but still, too much contradiction with my view that freewill does not exist.
[redacted]
If they truly believe that (maybe they do, or maybe it’s just a tactic to draw everyone toward onto their religous path), I would disagree because the majority of all people want to be ‘happy’ and, at least those with basic deductive reasoning, innately understand that their quality of life is dependent upon their own actions.
Human nature would be predetermined, and if the body existed prior to being categorized, a pre-determination of any kind is impossible.
Another argument that human nature does exist.
23 "What about consequences?" in reference to destiny and man's future without democracy.I’m not sure what he means by asking that question.
This was written early in his carrier and i'm led to believe that Jean-Paul Sartre regretted printing some of the ideas espoused... However the chapters, "Existentialism" and "Freedom and Responsibility" were particularly legendary.
Hmm wel Mr. Paul does certainly make me feel as though am I a bit of a truly free dude ill tell you that much. Thanks Jean-0
An alternative view is that the basis for our (free) choice is within our biology (our emotions, passions, interests), the very thing that Sartre denies.
While not perfect by any means (many of us are overly egoistic, and our social groupings are tribal [group-centric egoism]), this view nevertheless goes a long way toward dispelling the notion that passions and emotions lead to inevitable conflict.
Outside of this and a section from page 41-51 where he addresses 3 major emotional objections to existential philosophy, he is speaking on a more general plane – I almost think that it would be published today under the title Existentialism for Dummies.What I found most engaging in the text (mostly the section simply entitled “Existentialism” that takes up the first 51 pages) was his connection of the notion of subjectivity in religious, philosophical, and practical discourse, summed up in this passage from pp22-23: “If existence really does precedes essence, there is no explaining things away by reference to a fixed and given human nature.
I've never read Sartre before.
The first thirty pages or so were Sartre explaining that he wears sunglasses for blocking out the haters, and the remaining twenty were a brief summary of what existentialism is.Freedom and Responsibility: A little eight-page blurb explaining that by being alive, we have taken the responsibility of our lives and actions upon ourselves, and it's a responsibility from which we can't escape.
It's a dirty job, but somebody's gotta do it.Existential Psychoanalysis: Our boy Sartre takes a shit on Freud.
It's artful.The Hole: Our boy Sartre than proceeds to offer an INCREDIBLY Freudian explanation as to why vaginas are icky, and what attraction to them suggests about our ethics.
I can now say I've read Sartre, and avoid doing so in the future.
He gets deep into the idea of existence preceding essence, in that man is unique in that he exists before his purpose because he is writing the story of his purpose / essence / value each moment of his life.
This is a departure from all religious thought, in which man's essence is assigned my God(s) and man is a tool for a purpose.
There is no idea of a perfect man because each man's essence is intertwined with his string of life experiences, which are intertwined with and inseparable from his environment and the situations he inhabits.
EXISTENTIALISM AND HUMAN EMOTIONS is a collection of essays by Jean-Paul Sartre, one of the most well-known intellectuals of the 20th century.
Exactly how much the reader likes HUMAN EMOTIONS will depend entirely on how much they like Sartre in general.
Sartre didn’t want existentialism to be an excuse for self-doubt or lazy inaction even though he understood the validity of such emotions.
Many of the essays are taken from longer works, which makes it difficult to follow when Sartre references earlier chapters/writings that weren’t reproduced or summarized in HUMAN EMOTIONS.
I would just recommend picking up "Being and Nothingness" and just read that so you get the whole complex and complete writings.The last complaint I had with this book is that it is dated, and there are some Freudian psychoanalytical influences in sections, and since modern psychology has moved far away from id/ego/libido/everything about sex, it renders some of the observations rather useless.
They're interesting to read from a historical perspective, but not really useful otherwise.So, do I recommend this book?
This very short volume collects a series of essays and lectures Sartre wrote on separate occasions.
They do not live up to the project of explaining human emotions through an existentialist outlook - and not a psychoanalytic or orthodox psychological one.
The chapter on existentialism and psychoanalysis seems outmoded and awkward today - and in no ways shows how existentialism improves the psychoanalytic project.
The best chapter seems to me the brief piece "The Hole" - for once in the book does Sartre do justice to the existentialist project in an inventive, concise, and enigmatic manner.
The rest of the book may very well be neglected.
I found the first half of the book to be quite insightful on the topic of existentialism even though I don't completely agree with the notion, however his train of thought takes a nose dive after that. It reads as if he was trying to get reasoning to take him to a predetermined unreasonable conclusion, I wouldn't be surprised if he has confused himself in the process.
Love Sartre. My only complaint has nothing to do with the author or publisher but with the copy I got, used off Amazon, underlined and highlighted, with questions and notes scribbled in the margins. Should get a clean copy at some point. Of course, what do you expect when you buy the cheapest used copy available?
This was pretty accessible in terms of existentialist philosophy. I definitely got lost a number of times, but it was not an exhausting or frustrating read. The first half convincingly addresses misconceptions about existentialism, and the second explains the difference between Jungian and existentialist psychoanalysis.
The french title is way better. I really like Sartre's and I think this is is greatest work, along with a really important ideal for this whole period of time.
His first two chapters are great introductory reading on existentialism followed by some succinct responses to some of its critics.
The rest of the book, however, is a load of rubbish.
Psychoanalysis is a fascinating field — especially the Lacanian strain — but Sartre, in typical fashion, quickly devolves his discussion into the obtuse and impenetrable language of the Sorbonne school.
If I read the words “being-which-is-not-what-it-is” or “the being in-itself and for-itself” I will cry.
Sorry, Sartre.
But it’s done in such a roundabout way that it hardly justifies being the books supposed subject of interest.
I've tried hard, reading original works as well as great summaries of original works (like Bertrand Russell's History of Western Philosophy).I picked up a copy of this book at the big Friends of the Library sale out at Fort Mason.
But the man whose blood s poor is not coward on that account, for what makes cowardice is the act of renunciation or yielding.
What people would like is that a coward or hero is born this way...What the existentialist says is that the coward makes himself cowardly, that the hero makes himself heroic.
Here the idea has already been put on the table in previous works, and now JPS defends against several different criticisms and addresses in brief several other areas that further his big idea.
He manages to get at some universal truths, or at least hint at them, even outside the subject of Existentialism, and that is the subject of the book.
Human emotions are not discussed, even in one of the several three-page chapters(some chapters are longer, some much so), but Existential Psychoanalysis is briefly spoken of.
Sartre practices a kind of reductionism on other ideas, while trying, sometimes in vain, to expand upon his own pet theory of Existentialism.
