https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/446342.The_Shadow_of_the_Pomegranate
Audiobook #247
Ik wou haar dus zeker een kans geven, maar ik verwachte een verouderde visie op de gebeurtenissen.Dit boek gaat over de eerst jaren in het huwelijk van Katherine en Henry.
Het boek is geschreven vanuit Katherine's standpunt, maar heel wat andere personages doen hun zegje.
En het boek focust op hun huwelijk, maar schuwt het politiek plaatje zeker niet.
Ik was op veel vlakken akkoord met haar neerzetting van de personages.
Maar echt een detail, want dat personage wordt in dit boek nog maar 1x vermeld.
De schrijfstijl is heel feitelijk en misschien wat cliché, maar ik neem zeker nog meer boeken van haar op.
A nice Tudor read , told from the points of view of both Henry VIII and Katharine of Aragon.
"Then he began to pace up and down again.....a lion, not sure of his strength, but aware of the cage that enclosed him.
Then there would be nothing - no person on Earth to restrain him."The Shadow of the Pomegranate follows on from Katharine, the Virgin Widow - not only focusing on poor Katharine of Aragon, Henry VIII's long-suffering first wife; but the politics in Europe, involving Katharine's father, Ferdinand of Spain (and his duplicity and sneakiness), and Louis of France, highlighting Henry's embarrassment and rage at being tricked and used by both these countries."His face was suffused with rage.
Please visit my blog for my full review: http://bookchateau.blogspot.com/2012/...This story begins shortly after the marriage of Katharine of Aragon and King Henry VIII and tells the tale of their tumultuous marriage, their desire for heirs and Katharine’s battle between pleasing both her husband and her father at the same time. Book 2 in the Katharine of Aragon trilogy but works as a stand-alone novel as well. Like her other novels, it was very well written and I really enjoyed the story. It was a little slow to begin with but it definitely picked up about half way through the novel.
I am continuing to read through Jean Plaidy's,the Tudor Series bit by bit as I like to read different genres. I think her writing style is so easy to read and the factual stuff is easy to absorb.I can't really say any more other than her books are superbly written and anyone interested in the Tudor dynasty, should read this series, even though there are several other authors out there who have written on this topic.
I have struggled to find Plaidys recently & was delighted to find this one in a second hand book store.There is no one as good as Plaidy at creating the feeling of mistrust & unease that minor royals & coutiers must have felt in Tudor times. Fascinating watching Henry the VIII change from a rash & petulant boy, to a terrifying tyrant.
This instalment of Plaidy's Tudor series sees Henry VIII beginning to turn from a glittering boy into a sly, selfish young man. This novel begins to track the decline of Katharine of Aragon as well as the political struggles across Europe at the time. An enjoyable historical novel whereby you cannot help to feel sorry for poor Katharine of Aragon.
The more I read novels about Henry VIII the more I grow to dislike the man. This was a great book, you can not help but feel sorry for poor Catherine of Aragon. Poor devoted soul who put up with so much for so little reward.Good read for those who like English history.
It was a turn-around for me to actually like third-person perspective novels (I started hating third-person perspective novels after reading a terribly written third-person perspective novel).Reading the plot from the back of the book, I felt disappointed.
Spoilers begin here: Neglect only began halfway through the novel when the king started having mistresses, and throughout the entire novel, I never saw Catherine engaging on dangerous political affairs.
She has a great list of novels which I hope to read when I have the time and the book I should like to read from her.
Second in Plaidy's series on Katharine of Aragon, this starts with the teenaged Henry VIII choosing to marry his brother's virgin widow despite the difference in their ages and against the advice of his senior advisors.
We follow Katharine through a series of disastrous pregnancies while her husband grows up from boisterous youth to paranoid adult desparate for a son and heir and looking for reasons why the lack of success is someone else's fault.
This episode ends with the baptism of Henry's first healthy illegitimate son (by Elizabeth Blount) shortly after Katharine's last miscarriage of a male foetus.
Katharine is required to attend, and the threat to her is clear.Steadily paced and well readable.
Meh.
Wonderful series!
There will be no review at this time
This was my very first Jean Plaidy – the pseudonym used by prolific author Eleanor Hibbert, who under this pen name alone produced at least 92 historical fiction novels.
From what I’d heard of Plaidy previously, her prolific output made her the staunch backbone of the historical novel genre.
It was straightforward, and not in a snappy, bold, attention-grabbing kind of way.
This is the story of a young King Henry VIII and Queen Katherine of Aragon, told from many points of view.
Also because as a woman, how can I not be sympathetic to Katherine's plight.So this book was going along good and all, and I was listening to it on Audio (playaway) so I couldn't really tell how far along I was.
I thought this one would go on until the death of Katherine, but it only chronicles her early marriage to Henry.
I would definitely read more historical fiction by Plaidy.Recommended for fans of English history/historical fiction, Henry VIII historians, fans of period pieces.
This is the true heart and soul of the story of Henry and Kate.One of the things that I enjoyed was the way the story of Bessie Blount was described.
Although my all time favorite characterization of Katherine still has to be in The Constant Princess by Philippa Gregory.As this is an audio book, commentary on the narrator is a must.
I really enjoy it when the narrator really gets into the character and their emotions.
Although this is part of a trilogy, this book works well as a stand-alone – especially if you know anything about the relationship between Henry and Katherine.
Meanwhile, ambitious bishop Thomas Wolsey rises to be one of his most important consultants and tries to influence the king ...The third part of Jean Plaidy's Tudor series was not able to convince me either.
Feelings and thoughts are tediously and lengthily described, which makes them appear wooden and lifeless.The historical events at the court of Henry VIII themselves are not uninteresting, and characters like Catherine and her confidante Maria de Salinas are not unlikeable, but somehow the whole book was kind of drab.
The Shadow of the Pomegranate by Jean Plaidy continues the story of Henry VIII and his first wife, Katharine of Aragon, after the events chronicled in Katharine, the Virgin Widow.
Eventually Henry becomes quite frustrated with his life, sometimes blaming his misfortunes on having married his older brother’s widow.
(view spoiler)[As this volume of Plaidy’s Tudor Saga comes to an end, Henry finally has living children, but he is deeply frustrated that his only legitimate living child is a daughter , while his union with his mistress has produced a son.
It is the 2nd in the series about Katharine of Aragon and Henry VIII.
It was more of just a recolection of what happened and didn't draw me in.Most of the book was of Henry VIII and Katharine and their attempts to create a male heir and them both growing into their roles as King & Queen of England.
Also, the book covered the first affair of Henry VIII...Bessie Blought.
She was the one to give Henry VIII his first male heir, not a legitimate one though.
Katharine, knew of all his goings on too....what a strong woman she seemed.
Jean Plaidy seems to have gone out of fashion, but I can't think why.
Her Tudor novels (especially the first 3-4 books in this series) are just as enjoyable as the novels of Philippa Gregory.
I'd even go so far as to say that, if you enjoyed Wolf Hall, you'd probably enjoy this series, too.
Plaidy's novels are also exceptionally well-researched, but the historical detail never feels as if it's just been bolted on.
Rather, you simply feel that you understand the events that took place during the reign of the Tudors far better as a result of reading her books.
Review - I didn't enjoy this one as much as the previous book, Katharine, the Virgin Widow.
I thought that the emotional depth wasn't as well dealt with, but that was my main problem with it I think.
It was as well-written as other books I've read by Jean Plaidy and she really brought the Tudor court to life.Genre?
- Historical / DramaCharacters?
- Henry VIII / Katherine of Aragon / Ferdinand of Aragon / Mary Duchess of Suffolk / Margaret Queen of Scotland / Maria de Salinas / Bessie Blount / Charles Brandon / William Compton / Francis BryanSetting?
- Tudor #3Recommend?
Katharine is now established as the wife of Henry VIII, for better or for worse, as far as she is concerned.
The ups and downs of their marriage, and the taxing concerns of the kingdom, are chronicled here.
Queen Katharine does all she can to become the perfect wife and queen, but fate denies her what she needs most, an heir for the throne.
She worries that her husband's interest in her is beginning to wain even as she gets pressure from Spain, her home country, about maintaining his interest and putting their needs before all others.
This was a fantastic book and I really enjoyed reading about King Henry V111 Queen Katharine. There was a time when they really did love each other. This book helped me to rediscover the connection that they once had.I found that I had a hard time putting this book down. I can't wait till my next book arrives. I have always enjoyed reading or watching shows about Anne Boleyn. She is one of my favourite past Queens.
Another good book by Jean Plaidy! I really haven't read many books from the point of view of Katherine of Aragon and am happy to have read this one. Most books that I've read take place during the later years of her life; this book really lets you know who Katherine of Aragon is during her childhood and teen years in Spain and England which set her foundations of royal behavior. These books truly made me feel sorry for Katherine and gain a new respect for her.
I have always loved historical based novel and best of all the ones regarding the royals of England. Their stories make a better soap opera than any Hollywood writer could come up with. This one is Catherine of Aragon and Henry the VIII (yes the one with all the wives, she was the first). His efforts to assert himself as king and her efforts to hold on to her position as Queen of England. A good read!
I love Jean Plaidy. Her novels hasn't disappointed me so far. She is a great historical fiction writer. This is my third reading of her "Tudor Saga" focus on Katherine of Aragon. It spans the time period from shortly after Katherine’s marriage to Henry up until shortly after the birth of Henry’s son with Bessie Blount.Plaidy has done a great job of capturing the personality of Katherine of Aragon and the basic history of the period.
This is where the story of King Henry VIII and his first wife Katharine starts to get interesting. This book was an enjoyable fictional account of the early years of their marriage and Henry's reign. The story moved along more quickly than the first few in this series, and I'll keep reading because this is a palatable way to learn more about the kings of England.
Esta es de las primeras novelas históricas que leo y ha sido muy ilustrativa, la manera en la que la autora mezcla hechos reales con un poco de ficción me ha encantado aunque en general me parece muy precisa. Además, el estilo de escritura resulta muy adecuado y para el genero creo que es bastante sencillo de leer.
Disappointed, but mainly because I thought there would be more about Katherine, since the book was supposed to be about her. A lot of unnecessary jib-jab about other people/events. I guess I expected more of Katherine's thoughts, actions and events surrounding her and her relationship with Henry. But, yeah not so much.
