https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/186182.Kull
Almost immediately, he puts down ERB's John Carter.
(Talk about a large ego!) I found myself with less & less patience for his opinions, so after enduring him for 20 minutes, I came back in to the house & figured out where he quit so I could start in on the actual stories.
Tantor Media if you are reading this, please be advised that putting the introduction & each story into a separate track would be very much appreciated.
I know a lot of Howard buffs dislike the Lancer editions because deCamp & Carter finished & heavily edited REH's original words, but they're what I started with & I'm more interested in a full, rousing story.
I'm glad that I took advantage of a SF Book Club sale to pick up this reissue of the series because on rereading them, I found Kull much more interesting.Is Kull a "failed" Conan?Well, if you're looking at it from a popularity point of view, then the answer would be "yes." But if you're looking at it from a literary point of view, then the answer is definitely "no." True they're both barbarians from a lost, prehistoric world and both carve a bloody path to the thrones of civilized kingdoms but even a cursory reading of a Kull story shows that Howard was experimenting with a very different type of story and character.
My rating is 3.5 stars. Full review to come. My main feeling about this one is that I really like Kull and his close companions, but the incomplete stories were difficult to read at times.
And in proof of trust, look ye!”And with the speed of a striking hawk, the ancient snatched something from his robes, something that flung a weird green light over them, and which he replaced in an instant.“The stolen gem!” exclaimed Kull recoiling.
We towered above a strange world, ere Atlantis and Lemuria rose from the sea; we still shall reign when the green waters sigh for many a restless fathom above the spires of Lemuria and the hills of Atlantis and when the isles of the Western Men are the mountains of a strange land.”“How many kings have we watched ride down these streets before Kull of Atlantis was even a dream in the mind of Ka, bird of Creation?
Good reliable sword and sorcery.
Kull the barbarian king of Atlantis kicking butt and having his scribe take names.In the introduction of the book our organizer of stories goes to great length to tell us that Kull isn't really Howard's warm up for Conan.
Look I know I don't have a degree and I'm not an authority but at least to a certain extent I have to disagree.
Kull is where Conan goes.
There is a more complete feeling (for me at least) in the Conan stories.Still this is a good read and like the Conan stories (and other of Howard's works) can be read over and over with continued enjoyment.
Kings of the Night can be found in both Kull: Exile of Atlantis and Bran Mak Morn: The Last King.
Kings of the Night is also a rarity among Howard's stories because there isn't a single monster in it.Kull was a swords and sorcery character Howard created a few years before Conan and it shows, both in terms of concept and writing.
Kull plays along with the sorcerer and soon ends up in command of a band of Norsemen against the Romans.Before this story was published, Howard told his contemporary, H.P. Lovecraft, that it contained the best battle scene he'd written up to that point.
Each of the stories are quite a bit different from one another and show a definite progression of Kull as a character, sometimes gruff no-nonsense and even ruthless conquering King and other times compassionate and charismatic leader who acts on other people’s behalf even when no recognition for his good deeds comes his way.The final story in this collection, “Kings of the Night” is intriguing in that it is a crossover between the Kull stories and the Bran Mak Morn stories.
I have the Bran Mak Morn: The Last King collection scheduled for next year so that story was a good lead-in.As always with these Del Rey versions of Howard's work, the accompanying essays, untitled fragments, poems, and artwork make for a well-rounded and enjoyable collection.
It is also great for those who just want to read about another of Howard's characters, those who want a change from Conan, although of all of them Kull is probably the most Conon like.
Aided by a few trusted advisers and his Pictish allies, he endeavours to resist all efforts to unseat him.Apparently, only three stories featuring Kull were published during Howard's lifetime.
I probably wouldn't advise starting with this character if you are new to howard, but if you have liked any of his other work, it is worth giving this one a read.
When you read the following who doesn't feel their heart miss a beat; "The great shield turned the lance and Kull struck back as a snake strikes; the ponderous mace crushed helmet and head like an eggshell, and the very steed went to its knees from the shock of that terrible blow.
The latter was very strange indeed which really stuck with me.Kull of Atlantis was definitely a character I wish Howard would of written more of but we do have Conan though, and reading his exploits is kind of an extension of Kull's at least.
Howard's stories about Kull of Atlantis are generally more reflective than his better-known Conan ta
Kull was Robert E Howards pre-Conan sword and sorcery character so you could make a case that Kull is where the fantasy genre began.
Kull follows a formula similar to the Conan stories where the stories often resemble horror and/or Lovecraft stories as much as fantasy.
However Kull, while similar to Conan, is a very different character also.
Through might Kull has become King of a mighty empire but must deal with constant conspiracies against him from within his Kingdom.
These inner intrigues and how Kull deals with them are what comprises most of these stories.
A collection of some of Howard's earliest stories. "The Shadow Kingdom" is a masterpiece (and worth reading the closing essay to understand what Howard was doing with this story and it's relationship to the Biblical Saul). The remainder of them are erratic in quality but interesting as a window into the past as Howard develops the vibrant style that would characterize the Conan stories. The inclusion of "Kings of the Night" only highlights the contrast, as it is a later story featuring two other Howard characters. Worth reading for the completist, but casual readers should stick to Conan.

There were times when I've liked Kull as a character more than Conan. He seems more thoughtful at times, but overall there's no doubt that Conan is a more consistent, and in that sense more believable, character. Still, it's nice to have this collection of all the Kull stories, as well as some fragments and drafts, because it shows us a lot about the development of Howard's characters across his writing life.
The two characters, although sharing a similar barbarian origin, are very much night and day when it comes to personalities.Conan was a man of action, who lived for the moment and seized the pleasures of life – the lust for battle, the taste of good brew and the pleasures offered by the embrace of voluptuous wenches.
Without meaning to depreciate and disrespect the greatness of the latter characters, for they battled foes both of and out of this world, their adventures where almost always of earthly manner, while Kull’s often venture beyond – they are adventures of the body, the mind, and the soul alike.Kull shares a grim kinship with the last king of the Picts, Bran Mak Morn.
Kull seems to be something like a blueprint for the later Conan.
He is a barbarian but unlike Conan he does not try to solve everything with his sword.
This seems to hurt him the most.[return][return]Only character that comes to my mind that is similar to the Kull in behavior and temper is Wagner's Kane - but unlike Kane Kull is not immortal and still has some faith in human kind.[return][return]Only thing (same as with Solomon Kane collection) that only makes readers want more is that only about half of the stories are finished stories - others are either unnamed drafts or semi-finished works.[return][return]Nevertheless great collection with some very nice illustrations.[return][return]Highly recommended.
Except for the introductory story "Exile of Atlantis", they all operate consistently and common themes repeat. Kull is king, and trouble either comes to him or he goes looking for it. A young couple wish to marry despite social barriers. Kull stands on the brink of otherworldly knowledge.I wonder if Howard ditched the character because the stories were running out of gas. The Conan series as he originally wrote them had greater diversity in terms of plot and setting.
Kull is a badass.
I have always loved Robert E Howard from the time I found my older brother's Lancer books when I was a child.
Conan was of course a favorite, but my imagination was always captured by the Atlantean King Kull, a barbarian who rule the fabled kingdom of Valusa back in the dawn of time.
Kull was a more intellectual hero than Conan, always brooding about the metaphysical world, but still ready and able to swing a sword in order to crush a tyrant or kill a wizard who threatened his rule.
I bought this book back in 2011 on Amazon and was happy to revisit these fields of imagination.
The Kull stories tend to be somewhat overlooked in the wake of Conan and Solomon Kane and some of Howard's other work, but they're good, interesting adventures.
Kull tends to be more introspective and less consistent than Conan, and his character is never quite as clearly defined.
This comprehensive audio version is comprised of ten discs, including a lengthy introduction and afterword, and draft versions as well as the final versions of some of the stories.
It's good for completists, but those who just want to be entertained might want to just skip over the commentary.
Out of the various heroic incarnations Howard produced in his short but fruitful career, Kull is a bright spark that comes and goes all too quickly. Only three Kull stories were ever published in Howard's lifetime, so to read a collection containing unpublished works starring him is a real treat. Kull is like Conan in a lot of respects, but bears a philosophical side that gives him a more brooding aspect. I recommend this collection to anyone who enjoys swords and sorcery fiction, combat scenes, or the dramatic tension between individual freedom and the preservation of society.
As for the stories, for anyone interested in the genre, Kull is the original, the first Sword and Sorcery hero, and whilst not as detailed, epic or brutal as Conan, Kull has a more philosophical edge, where our hero questions reality, dreams and existence, when he isn't fighting skull-faced demons (The villain Thulsa Doom, is the original Skeletor) and snake-headed warriors.
As for the Kull stories, many are fragments and some unfinished as only 3 were published but they are imaginative and lush in adventure.
The 2 page stories "the altar and the scorpion, and 'the curse of the golden skull' were amongst my favourites, these brief revenge tales only have mentions of Kull, but set in Valusia they transported me into a vanished world of adventure and supernatural danger.
Kull is often considered a mere prototype to Conan and while the story 'By this Axe I Rule' was indeed rewritten as a Conan story the Kull stories are still very much their own thing.
In the essay 'The Hyborian Age' however it is described as a precursor to the Hyborian world, but this idea seems to have occured to Howard only after he was done writing the Kull stories.
Howard did not put the same effort into Kull's universe and ultimately the main character and his world is not as fleshed out as that of Conan.
Not as good as the last time I read it, but I'm not sixteen anymore. Robert E. Howard was like the Grandma American fantasy: primitive and self-taught, but energetic and primal.
He has travelled to the mainland and become king of Valusia, the greatest of the ancient and decadent Seven Empires, but being a barbarian, Kull spends as much or more time fighting people as he does actually ruling.
Unfortunately, there are a lot of fragments and incomplete stories here, in large part because Kull didn't sell too well and Howard soon moved on to Conan.
In the end, I had a great time with this book, and I do regret that Howard never did more with his first barbarian king.
Kull's metaphysical musings and the prevailing mood of unreality, dread, and obsession in the published stories are very compelling, so it's particularly vexing when Howard jettisons all that in favour of pure action in unpublished snoozefests like "Swords of the Purple Kingdom".
I would be willing to reconsider some of the almost-good unpublished stories if Howard's polished texts ever turn up, and I'd be even more interested in seeing the rest of "The Black City", which leaves us dangling in Lovecraftland after only a couple of pages.
If you are familiar with Conan or Solomon Kane stories, you know that they vary pretty widely in quality.
I suppose some people might argue that, no, when Howard goes out of his way in every story to remind us that Kull has no interest in women, he means that he just lives for battle and such.
Is this me, a modern reader, projecting my modern sensibilities onto stories from another era?
I mean, maybe, though I think it's more a case of an author from another era exploring some interests on paper that he had to repress in life.
Though some of the entries are good Weird Adventure fiction, it's best to appreciate this collection of Kull stories in the context of Howard's other work, particularly his most famous, the Conan stories.
Not surprisingly, those that were originally published are the best in this volume, and getting the critique immediately after the stories and fragments would make this collection cohesive.
As it is, it's a grab-bag, with two stories and the poem repeated (in first draft and final forms) for the sake of completion.
However, make no mistake - this is not only proto-Conan (despite some strong similarities), Kull is a character in his own right, with his own motivations and philosophy.The Kull stories are not as satisfying to read as the Conan or Solomon Kane ones are, but reading through this was still an enjoyable breeze - Howard's style is, as always, easygoing and inviting, even if, thematically, Kull isn't as interesting as either of the two other characters I mentioned.Those who dismiss this part of Howard's heritage as being "a stepping stone for his better works" may be right in that regard, but are still doing themselves a disservice.
