https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/662262.Get_Tough_How_to_Win_in_Hand_to_Hand_Fighting_As_Taught_to_the_British_Commandos_and_U_S_Armed_Forces
Fairbairn was a Police Commisioner in Shanghai in the 1920s, was one of the first non-Japanese black belts in Judo (certified by the founder of Judo, Jigoro Kano), and during his time in Shanghai, devised systems of both close-range gunfighting and hand-to-hand combat--assets that were desperately needed for him and his men (both westerners and ethnic Chinese) when locked in lethal struggle with the ruthless Triad gangs (many of whom were crack shots, and highly skilled in Chinese Boxing, aka: kung fu).
So...Maiming an opponent with your bare hands is easier than it sounds.You can knock someone unconscious with a matchbox!And kick break someone's spine by throwing your opponent to the floor!I only read this for research, but damn, I felt like training this with my mother (she is 40 pounds heavier, way stronger than me and once knocked some heavy-builded 20-year-old man with the side of a knife - he had the mark "Tramontina" in his back for days) and turning into some girly form of badass-ery!
A World War era British military martial arts handbook, not too dissimilar to a primitive Krav Maga.
The difference in content is that "Get Tough" lacks the final chapter of "All-in Fighting", which covers the use of the bayonet.This book is an important cultural artifact, in that it encapsulates the teachings of Fairbairn as given to British forces.
However, as a book on effective combatives, it falls flat.
It's not all bad, though, and several good points are still offered even if some of the content is a little out there.Further (informal) analysis can be found at this webforum: http://www.bullshido.net/forums/showt...If you're looking for a piece of history, this is a great read.
One of the seminal books on unarmed combat, with practical, effective techniques proven on the battlefields of World War II and still very relevant to soldiers on today's battlefields, law enforcement officers on the thin blue line, or civilians interested in self-defense. Just remember that reading a book is no substitute for training with a competent instructor (for example, DefendU) and practice. There are also techniques from judo, aikido, aikijitsu, jujitsu, Krav Maga, and armed self-defense that should be integrated to form a complete, modern system of self-defense.
I love how blunt it is. Example:Seize both his hands with your right and flip him downwards...Finish him off with a kick to the face.The drawings are really good and it's actually quite interesting to read. It's written so that it's easy to access and it is relevant for people interested in self defense. It has pretty much every situation you'd be in and a (slightly bad sportsmanship) way to get out of every one.I'm going to spend all of tomorrow practicing it on my friends. Kidding. ;-)
Probably one of the most concise, practical, and comprehensive texts I have ever read on fighting. This should be in every martial artist's library as well as anyone interested in self-defense. I would like anyone who trains with me to read it, as, as far as hand-to-hand combat, this are many aspects of what we do here.
I came across a reference to Fairbairn in a thriller and was interested enough to track him down. 'All-in Fighting' is an illustrated guide to the kind of lethal combat skills that were taught to WWII commandos. If you were thinking of writing a WWII action book that involved hand-to-hand combat this would be an excellent reference.
I read this years ago. In fact, I think I had a copy at one time. I didn't appreciate it much then. Now, older and wiser, I see its value. While some of the techniques may be outdates or ineffective, the spirt of the book is there. Keep self defense (or your offense) simple, brutal, and effective. I'm glad I re-read it.
Brilliant book, well presented and timeless self protection manual. Capt. W.E Fairburn was doing mixed martial arts long before many, many others. Cannot recommend highly enough............like Geoff Thompson/Peter Consterdine( 2 of the best self protection authors) meets Mr Chumley Warner era.Brilliant book welcome addition to any library.
This is the self-defense manual for the rest of us. The goal isn't to make one a martial artist; it is to teach some of the most brutal techniques conceived by the mind of man for saving one's life when things go very bad.
The real deal
Fairbairn served as the Shanghai police chief under British rule. He developed fighting and defense techniques for his native policemen as well as for the British coomandos and American Marines.
