https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/246.The_Colossus_of_Maroussi
We must abandon the hard-fought trenches we have dug ourselves into and come out into the open, surrender our arms, our possessions, our rights as individuals, classes, nations, peoples." It's bombastic, to be sure, but it's also a reaction to events, a pained cry of: why can't we just act differently?
It's an attempt to imagine a different, better world, and I was sympathetic to it, just as I was sympathetic to Miller's imagining of the Greek spirit he wanted to capture, a spirit that was as much a creature of his own mind as anything else.
This beautiful and nearly flawless travel memoir is marred by this unfortunate sentence on page 121: "On the way to the library, I made kaka in my pants." Wha? Here's this fabulous surreal narrative about Greece, and suddenly the narrator doesn't just shit himself, he "makes kaka?" Skip page 121.
The Colossus of Maroussi is a book of those later times, when he, an "American Savage", entered the world of peace, beauty, and most of all, simplicity he was longing for while living in America.
Although enamored with France, Miller's passion for Europe goes way farther in this book, which at times reads more like L.
Yet, at the same time, he manages to wrap himself in the beauty he encounters, dive into it without holding a breath and resurface a new, more complete being, spellbound by his experience.
I have shared this book with many people who did not like Miller and their minds were changed forever.
We were in the dead center of that soft silence which absorbs even the breathing of gods...Through the thick pores of the earth the dreams of men long dead still bubbled and burst, their diaphanous filament carried skyward by flocks of startled birds."Here, as always, we see Miller as primitive shaman, awed and humbled by nature and humanity, disdainful of modernity and materialism: "Mechanical devices have nothing to do with man's real nature--they are merely traps which Death has baited for him."He underscores this view of us, as animals caught in a steel maze of our own making, by his frequent metaphoric mixing of nature's fecundity and manmade tawdriness, as when he describes the approach to Delphi:"This is an invisible corridor of time, a vast, breathless parenthesis which swells like the uterus and having bowelled forth its anguish relapses like a run-down clock."No, this is not your grandmother's travel writing, with its propriety, politeness, and "realistic" depictions, but word-pictures of an emotional landscape.
On the Road in Greece.
As does Kerouac in On the Road, Miller displays the same quickening to judgment, the same contempt for the bourgeois, the same obsession for the real.
Greece to him is real.
Unfortunately, the Greece that he sees is anything but.
Miller falls in love with a vision of Greece that is as much made of present Greek poverty and past Greek myth.
Part lengthy diatribe against modern civilization, part poetic paean of the Greek landscape, The Colossus of Maroussi is more a voyage into Miller than it is into Greece.
This example of his work is in some ways a peculiar one since it was written during a turning point in modern history, namely the Second World War, and was inevitably a turning point in Miller's own life as well.Henry Miller has not always had kind things to say about his native U.
Here, in "The Colossus of Maroussi," he uses the American state as a kind of false backdrop for his discoveries in Greece.
Besides being the work of a truly formidable writer, it will take you to places you probably never dreamed existed.
...the last parts of the mosaic:"We say erroneously that the Greeks humanized the gods.
The gods humanized the Greeks.
There was a Moment when it seemed as if the real significance of life had been grasped, a breathless Moment when the destiny of the whole human race was in jeopardy.
They made mythology of a reality which was too great for their human comprehension.
We Forget, in our enchantment with the myth, that it is Born of reality and is fundamentally no different from any other form of creation, except that it has to do with the very quick of life.
But in our myths there is no place for the gods.
I found much of this book unreadable. Occasional luminous passages and insights nestle between large swathes of nonsense in which Miller abuses the language. Self-centred, self-indulgent ramblings of a privileged white guy abroad. Gross.
I always think that i will like travel books when i return from traveling, but that has never been the case, especially when they are written by self centered wankers like Henry Miller.
Too bad he never read Homer. It might have helped.
Miller bu anlatısına 'en iyi metnim' demiş yaşayıp da yazdıkları kuşkusuz doğruluyor bu söylemi, yerinde olup Katsimbalis'in gerçekle kurmacayı harmanladığı hikâyelerini, Seferis'in caz plaklarını dinlemeyi Durrell'la adaların ücra köşelerine yolculuk etmeyi çok isterdim."Bütün insanlığa barış ve daha dolu bir hayat dilerim."(s. 210)
The book-learning gradually dribbles away; problems melt and dissolve ties are gently severed; thinking, when you deign to indulge in it, becomes very primitive; the body becomes a new and wonderful instrument; you look at plants or stones or fish with different eyes; you wonder what people are struggling to accomplish by their frenzied activities; you know there is a war on but you haven't the faintest idea what it's about or why people should enjoy killing one another; you look at a place like Albania—it was constantly staring me in the eyes—and you say to yourself, yesterday it was Greek, today it's Italian, tomorrow it may be German or Japanese, and you let it be anything it chooses to be.
The absence of newspapers, the absence of news about what men are doing in different parts of the world to make life more livable or unlivable is the greatest single boon.
I'm so disappointed. What a hunk of junk. I don't know what this book is supposed to be, but a travel book, it is not. This is more like some self-centered, old-fashioned guy's philosophical blathering about a trip to Greece he took ages ago -- except it's not even interesting, nor is it funny, and it doesn't make a lick of sense. He goes on and on for paragraphs and paragraphs with no seeming point, and doesn't have anything interesting to say. The best thing I can say about this book is that the cover is pretty. Ugh.
I heard him say, “so someone drinking a Heineken, it’s like driving a Lamborghini…”, and “another thing is that now everyone tips…” Remembering that this guy was Greek, I concluded that he was probably speaking Greek to his nephew, and probably describing a trip he’d recently taken, perhaps to Athens (which made sense, since, again, I hadn’t seen him at the diner for a while), the same city that I was reading Miller’s account of visiting.Strange.
but here the often under-praised sooth-sayer concerns himself essentially with human happiness and the folly of self-imposed suffering of the modern west.
His proclaimations in Colossus-- that we must endeavor ever-more-so to rid ourselves of our learned tendencies to mistake progress for happiness-- are as true today in the face of terrorism as they were when the work was concieved, at the onslaught of WWII.
Some people have called this Miller's best work, but I won't say so, even if it is deliciously rhapsodic and delivers his best soliloqouy on the value of mirth and light in life.
عندما تقرأ لهنري ميللر لاتعرف من أين يبدأ ولا أين ينتهي، لأنه دائماً يحاول أن يؤكد قوله:(أفضل القصص التي سمعتها هي بلا نهاية، وأفضل الكتب هي التي لا أذكر عقدتها أبداً، وأفضل الاشخاص هم من لا أصل معهم إلى أي نتيجة....)من عشية الحرب العالمية الثانية يقدم لنا هنري ميللر، يقول:(الكل يسير في الاتجاه الخاطئ....
ولن يحل السلام إلى ان نلغي الجريمة من القلب والعقل)لا يوجد كاتب يكتب بهذه الطريقة من الاتقاد، كما يفعل هنري ميللر:(لا يزال أمامنا بعد الكثير من الاشياء الاعظم لنقولها، أشياء تعصى على اللفظ، أشياء لا حد لها ولا تصدق، أشياء لاية خدعة لغوية ان تحيط بها)
If I ever do go to Greece, I will have this book as my travel companion.
Henry Miller gave himself completely over in this homage to Greece.
His love for mankind is in every line.
Some times it's a tough love...The book closes with the dark ominous threat of WWII coinciding with Miller's return to New York.
The timing of the trip really adds to the experience because Miller writes it like it is an urgent testimony to our world before it blows.I urge anyone who needs a little dose of grace, truth and beautiful humanity to read this gem.It makes me want to be a little more alive, physical, awake, grateful, hungry, honest, giving, contemplative and bold.
Embora não me sinta muito atraída pelas edições mainstream da obra de Henry Miller publicadas em Portugal (nunca me seduziu a leitura do Trópico de Câncer ou do Trópico de Capricórnio, assim como a trilogia Sexus, Plexus e Nexus, títulos de referência deste autor americano), foi através dos trabalhos, digamos, secundários, que optei por iniciar a abordagem à sua obra.
A mitologia grega que sempre nos garantiu que os deuses foram criados à imagem e semelhança do homem, Miller contrapõe precisamente o contrário: “A impressão mais forte que me deixou a Grécia foi a de ser um mundo à medida do homem.
După o lungă perioadă petrecută la Paris, Miller, simțind amenințarea războiului și sătul de capitala Franței ajunsă acum ca o Sodoma, dă curs invitației bunului său prieten și poet Lawrence Durrell și merge în Grecia.
Acum, se spune despre cartea aceasta că ar fi un jurnal de călătorie, iar la bază chiar asta este, numai că vizitele lui Miller la Eleusis, Epidaur, Micene, Argos și așa mai departe sunt o călătorie interioară foarte puternică.
Evadarea, acum completă pentru Miller, rămâne un exemplu splendid de descătușare de orice limitare pe care realitatea de atunci ți-o putea impune.
Driving through Big Sur from San Francisco to LA, I stopped by the Henry Miller Memorial Library and bought The Colossus of Maroussi; it was recommended by the shop-keep as "Miller's favorite work written by himself." Tropic of Cancer was already in my pile of to-read, road-trip-reading material after recommendations for its "dense, sexual force." So I figured: Why not a phase?
A great travel memoir for anyone interested in Greece, or a tedious a thicket of language for anyone interested more in the impetus of a good story, Colossus is an undeniable body of love, an Outsider exercise inputting positive images into the imagination; and it's a no-brainer why it's Miller's favorite work, showcasing a cavalcade of experiences, which are long-worth remembering.
The colossus of maroussi, Henry Millerعنوان: پیکره ماروسی؛ نوشته: هنری میلر؛ مترجم: مهبد ایرانی طلب؛
Miller's praise for the Land of Greece, her light and her people is genuinely touching. It makes one want to experience the greatness of the place, to be reborn like him. You also get to know more about him in this book. He's a madman and very opinionated but he's also an endearing romantic. His prose is straightforward and beautiful. His accounts were interesting, some really funny. For people who stereotyped him as misogynistic and egoistic, you know nothing about him.
This book has made me fall in love with Miller... just sayin'
A cantankerous stream of consciousness travelogue through a Greece of memory and imagination.
I read every book Miller mentioned in this memoir. Following his excellent taste was a great starting point for me as a young reader. (I read it in the spring of 1974.)
After spending months in Thessaloniki, Greece, a city which Miller understandably calls boring, I sent an email to my crazy university friend who was then finishing his Ph.D in history.
I determined to carry the book with me always, so that no matter what happened, I could one day read the first half again (and again?).Slow forward to Sofia, Bulgaria, a city which makes boring sound like a long lost art form.
But do I remember much of any book?Miller had a kind of religious experience in Greece.
I see now that the craze I picked up for reading Greek histories after Thessaloniki was a false move backwards somehow.
After a decade of frenzied writing in which both “Tropic of Cancer “and “Tropic of Capricorn” were composed, Miller’s intention was really nothing more than to relax in preparation for a journey to Tibet in which he planned to, in a popular phrase Miller himself would have despised, “find himself.” “Colossus of Maroussi” is pure prosopography, which isn’t of course to say that he does not give flashing insight into the individual lives of others.
In fact, the colossus of the title – a Greek poet by the name of George Katsimbalis – has a personality which sometimes threatens to marginalize Miller’s.
A Micene ho camminato sui morti incandescenti; a Epidauro ho sentito un silenzio così intenso che per una frazione di secondo ho udito battere il grande cuore del mondo e ho compreso il significato del dolore e della sofferenza; a Tirinto sono rimasto nell'ombra dell'uomo ciclopico e ho sentito la vampa dell'occhio interiore che ora è diventato una ghiandola malaticcia; ad Argo tutta la pianura era una nebbia infuocata in cui ho visto i fantasmi dei nostri indiani d'America e li ho salutati in silenzio.
the greatest travel book ever written??
I know many people are not really into miller.
Those over-the-top rants he always has in his books are truely inspiring when applied to traveling.
To see someone so in love with the spirit of a place is such a wonderful thing.
But this is not one of those Miller books that just goes over the deep end and keeps free-falling.
Instead of just gushing at length of his travels; he really tries to get at the "authen tic" spirit of a place and its people.
I only everyone could aproach travel this way!!!!
Miller's journey to Greece before the outbreak of the Second World War is a rough, poetic, cultural, philosophic hommage to Greece.
It took me quite some time to grasp and comprehend what Miller wanted to say.
I have never experienced that in such a strong way like in Miller's Colossus of Maroussi.
But what touched me the most is the feeling of passing, as Miller talks about Greece as it is (at the time when he was writting the Colossus of Maroussi) and how it it is going to change forever because of the war!!
