https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2794.The_Crying_of_Lot_49
it gets a much heavier that you would ever expect for a first encounter like this, especially because you just met this guy (scandalous!!!) but you feel so wrapped up in his world that you just go along with it and enjoy.
and trust me, you do enjoy it.
and right as your about to come to the full, uh, realization of your enjoyment, he says, "oh god!" and stops and looks at you awkwardly.
and you recognize at that moment that the enjoyment is um, bust, and you will never have that full realization.
that's what reading this book is like.

My first excursion into the Pynchonesque…and it left me disorientated, introspective and utterly confused about how exactly I feel about it. I’m taking the cowards way out and giving it three stars even though that makes me feel like I’m punting the responsibility football and doing my best imitation of an ostrich when trouble walks by. I am going to have to re-read this. My assumption is that I began this book taking Pynchon a little too lightly. I decided to start my exploration of Pynchon he
“Though she knew even less about radios than about Southern Californians, there were to both outward patterns a hieroglyphic sense of concealed meaning, of an intent to communicate.” At least I think that is what Pynchon was getting at in this book.
My problem was that I didn’t clue into that until late into the story and by that time I was simply riding the crest of the enjoyable language and mini-scenes into the finish line.
Having now read the book, I feel like if I were to go back and read it again knowing what I now know, I will be able to get far more out of it.
Maybe that’s how Pynchon works, I’m not sure.
This book is the literary equivalent of some hipster noise band that everyone knows sucks but people will say they are good just to be in the "know." I must say this before I get a bunch of messages from people looking down their nose at me.
I do "get it" I got an A on the paper I wrote on this book but what I "get" more is that there is nothing to "get." It's the act of "getting it" and being part of that special little crew that does that makes people enjoy this book.
Get what I'm saying?If you enjoy art that makes a statement, try this book.
Thomas Pynchon’s The Crying of Lot 49 is not for everyone (mostly I know this because I’ve recommended this book before and been dismayed when it was not loved).
When you have all that, it’s just a waste of time to talk about whether or not there’s a real plot.
V is another one of Pynchon’s masterpieces, but The Crying of Lot 49 (written decades before its time in 1966) is both much shorter and more accessible.
Hold it tightly by its little tentacle, don't let the Freudians coax it away or the pharmacists poison it out of you.
Muted  – I am in an alien way, Post  – reading this weird novel about a Horn  – that despite many mouths, remains Muted  – across the  Post  – offices of circuitous US lands although the blare of this  Horn  – is audible to a secretive group that moves in Muted  – shadows and sews in its hem, high Post  – bearers and zany professors who insist to Horn  – out any intruders who, in public or Muted  – way, attempt to Post  – any letters sent with this Horn  – bearing stamp to any Muted  – or alive
– delivery, the estate holder might 
You go on blowing that muted post horn and throw at me concepts like entropy, teasing verses with Humbert Humbert, dandelion wine, Russian tanks, outdated cartoons and what was that: 'perhaps to arouse fractions of brain current your most gossamer microelectrode is yet too gross for funding.'(???) and expect me to be sane?!
I mean just to tell a little story about a woman who goes to execute an estate and gets confused after stumbling onto a few secret letters flying through a postal network, you had to bring LSD drug into picture??
Immoral in beginning; mostly about how we think (deep)2.
She's searching for answers because she thinks there's a conspiracy in the male (sic).4.
All the people she knows have non-realistic things going on.
She's searching for truth alone.7.
All characters are in there to show "loss of truth." (hmmmm)8.
People always try to silence of truth.
(oh are we?)12 People that complain never gets anywhere (sic).
My goodness, I can't imagine reading whatever brainchild was spawned from this nonsense, but I'm going to bet it got a C+ at best.So, wanna know what I think about this book?
Things get lost from time to time, but whatever our complaints against the various couriers, what we forget in those moments of frustration is that 99.99% of the mail addressed to us in our lifetime does eventually make its way into our hands, and usually right on time!It's simply astounding.
If people couldn't send things by mail, they'd have to make every delivery in person.
Royal European delivery services eventually came to be rivaled by private outfits, subsequently squashed by postal reform in this country, only to return sub rosa in a campaign of guerilla mailings in 1966.
While trying to deal with that, she begins meeting odd people and seeing symbols that lead her to a bizarre conspiracy theory about a centuries old society called the Trystero that is mostly known for running an underground postal system.
But the more evidence she finds about the Trystero existing makes Oedipa increasingly paranoid about whether she’s the victim of an elaborate hoax or if she’s losing her own sanity.This is one of those books that I enjoyed while reading, but knew that I was missing a whole layer of meaning.
I loved the idea of a rogue postal service and how Pynchon played with it as the idea of an urban myth or conspiracy theory.
If you stand back from this novel and try to see it as Pynchon essentially taking the piss out of all the tropes and plots and characters often found in postmodernist literature, then I think it starts making the most sense.The novel follows Oedipa Maas who, after discovering a strange trumpet-like symbol on the wall of a bathroom, goes on an incredibly convoluted and complex journey to unmask the symbol's true meaning.
Despite the novel's brevity (only 142 pages), Pynchon's trademark dense but intricate prose turns what is essentially a long short story into a fully-fledged novel, packed with a vast cast of characters and an equal amount of plots.Pynchon has a lot of fun with The Crying of Lot 49.
I know everyone thinks that this - along with Gravity's Rainbow - is Pynchon's masterpiece and yes, Oedipa Maas is one crazy-ass protagonist and an incredible addition to the post-modern canon. The story itself was funny and absurd and exciting. I guess I just wanted a conclusion. Sort of like with V where I was really invested but then was like, ummm so what does this all mean?All that being said, it is still Pynchon and is still amazing.
"So, what do you think it's about?" she asked, as she took a preliminary sip from her cocktail.
"Entropy, to start with," he replied.
It follows from thermodynamic calculations that the information content of a black hole is proportional to the square of its radius, not the cube, and the Universe can reasonably be thought of as a black hole.
Hence all its information is really on its surface, and the interior is a low-energy illusion.
Wouldn't you say that the book is rather like that too?"The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
Og think nasty writer-man laughing at Og.
Ακόμα και το όνομά της άλλωστε είναι ένα σύμβολο: « Όπως ο Οιδίπους μπροστά στην Σφίγγα, έτσι και η Οιδίπα μπροστά τον κόσμο του αμερικάνικου ονείρου έχει να απαντήσει σε μία σειρά από αινίγματα και γρίφους, προκαλώντας την μοίρα της.»Δεν θα είχε κανένα απολύτως νόημα να σας αναφέρω περισσότερα πράγματα για την εξέλιξη του έργου αφενός γιατί θα σας μπερδέψω χειρότερα και αφ’ εταίρου γιατί, ας είμαστε ειλικρινείς, δεν τα κατάλαβα όλα απόλυτα.
Έτσι ήταν διευθετημένα τα ζεύγη.»Ολοκληρώνοντας την ανάγνωση είχα την αίσθηση ότι μόλις έκανα έναν τρελό γύρο με τρενάκι στο μυαλό του συγγραφέα, από το οποίο δεν βγήκα αλώβητη, όπως άλλωστε μας προειδοποιεί και το εισαγωγικό σημείωμα, αλλά βγήκα σίγουρα καλύτερη.
Dumb. Overrated. The only plus? It's a short novel.A mystery with no solution. I think the only person that can pull this off is David Lynch. But he's nbo novelist. This is absurdism and pretentiousness at its utmost. I really did not enjoy trying to "figure out" a, truth be told, lost cause.Skip. Please vanish from the 1001 Musts list! We do not need a hybrid Don DeLillo, Nathaniel West, David Cronenberg. Truly. A ridiculous embarrassment.
Είναι ο καλύτερος στο να βρίσκει πολύ εξειδικευμένες πληροφορίες σε τομείς όπως η φυσική, άλλωστε εντροπία λέγεται η τεχνική που χρησιμοποιεί, όπως αναφέρει ο Δημηρούλης, ο μεταφραστής.
Πολλές από αυτές τις πληροφορίες δεν χρειάζονται πουθενά πλην όμως αποτελούν αναπόσπαστο στοιχείο του συνολικού σκηνικού.
Αποτελεί μια πολύ ιδιαίτερη κατηγορία και μας θυμίζει γιατί η λογοτεχνία πρέπει να είναι απαιτητική και να μας εξιτάρει.Υ.Γ.
Πολύ ενδιαφέρουσα είναι η κριτική του Harold Bloom (ίσως ο κορυφαίος κριτικός λογοτεχνίας) στο "Πως και γιατί διαβάζουμε", που το συμπεριλαμβάνει ανάμεσα σε τεράστια έργα των Φώκνερ, Μέλβιλ, Προυστ, Ντίκενς, Μακάρθυ, Μαν κτλ.
There is a central character called Oedipa who becomes co-executor of an ex flames estate and inadvertantly steps into what may or may not be a global conspiracy stretching back through the ages.
Lots of interesting characters turn up and may (or may not) be part of the conspiracy.
Oedipa's therapist turns out to be an ex-Nazi who worked in Buchenwald and there is an ongoing Beatles theme in the form of an American group who sing with English accents called the Paranoids.
There are lots of other themes; entropy to name but one; and the conspiracy races away in a pleasing and slightly sinister manner.
Reading The Crying of Lot 49 reminded me of the first time I watched Mulholland Drive.
There was hair pulling.
There was rewinding and pausing and what?!what?!thefuck?!what?!
The remote was flung across the room.
There may have almost been tears.
It was wonderfully frustrating and deliciously delusional.
Yes, Mr Lynch, Mr Pynchon , you're so so clever and lil average me is a mere mortal squirming around on your chess tables...
But I don't care.
Confuse me.
It's better than most of the crap out there.
I'd rather be scratching my forehead than slapping it.
Chaos.
'Shrooms.
Change.
Awakening.
Sleep.
Dreams.
Life.
Ahhhh, yeah.
Αν κοιτάξεις το χώμα, θα δεις ένα έντομο να περπατάει στο έδαφος, μετά ελευθερώνοντας τη σκηνή από την εστίαση σου, παρατηρείς τον αέρα να κινεί τα φύλλα, τα κορδόνια στα παπούτσια κάποιου που διασχίζει την απέναντι γωνία.
Δεν υπάρχουν τελικοί στόχοι γιατί μόλις αναγνωριστούν φαίνεται πως δε διαφέρουν σε τίποτα απ' όσα ήδη ξέρεις και η κορύφωση είναι τζούφια.
Το πως φτάνεις κάπου, ο συνδυασμοί, οι έλξεις κι οι απωθήσεις, οι άνθρωποι που συναντάς και τα στοιχεία που επιλέγουν να σου αποκαλύψουν για τον εαυτό τους στην παρούσα φάση δημιουργούν αυτό το ενιαίο σώμα που κάθε στιγμή όμως αποτελείται από μόρια, συγκρατούμενα αλλά μόρια.
Harold Bloom (and apparently everyone else I know) is clearly out of his G.D. mind.
This book is not hilariously funny.
I did not appreciate the humor in this book at all.
I liked the bit about the play but the book seemed too cutesy and gimmicky to me.
I've been looking at reviews all over and (much like the reviews for the film No Country for Old Men) I seem only to find the same old enthusiastic descriptions of the book and no compelling reason for why I should appreciate the longest 183 page book I've ever read.
Ωστόσο μέσα σε αυτό το δίλημμα που ενυπάρχει σε όλα τα έργα του Pynchon, αλλά πρωτίστως στο συγκεκριμένο, αυτή η ανάγκη να καταλάβουμε και να αντιληφθούμε τα μοτίβα που διέπουν ένα κείμενο, τη ζωή και την ιστορία, μπορεί εύκολα να οδηγήσει στο δίπολο μιας παράνοιας εξαιτίας την οποίας από την μια υπάρχει ο φόβος του παραλόγου και από την άλλη η επιθυμία μας να βλέπουμε παντού διασυνδέσεις, συσχετισμούς και συνοχή».
And there is the story itself, with so many other stories within stories and allusions and self-references that it is impossible to know what is signal and what is noise.I thought it was clever, for example, that the husband at the start of the book had worked in a used car lot and had hated it.
Any wonder the guys that started this whole information theory thing said information is entropy and patterns so that as long as there is signal and noise and those can be somewhat separated, that’s as good as it gets, don’t ask for more meaning than that.This is a very clever book – perhaps too clever, hard to say.
“Beneath the notice, faintly in pencil, was a symbol she'd never seen before, a loop, triangle and trapezoid.”“The seventh angel sounded his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven…” Revelation 11:15Thomas Pynchon is a cognoscente of all sorts of conspiracies and The Crying of Lot 49, a somewhat sad post-noir burlesque, set amidst trashy cultural and behavioural patterns, concerns itself with a weird global postal conspiracy.“Decorating each alienation, each species of withdrawal, as cufflink, decal, aimless doodling, there was somehow always the post horn.
Ιδιαίτερο.Για Ιδιαίτερους.
On the one hand, The Crying of Lot 49 contains interesting ideas, culminating in a weird trip down Paranoia Lane.
Keen to find answers, Oedipa digs into the clues, only to get sucked into what is best described as a wild and obsessive brainstorm.As I said, there are some interesting ideas going on here.
These passages do serve a purpose in that they make the reader as confused as Oedipa herself (a confusion further strengthened by the maddening open ending), but for all their paranoia-inducing quality, I wish Pynchon had taken more time to flesh out his story, to turn it into an actual novel with flesh-and-blood characters and emotions rather than an exercise in cleverness.

But what’s this obsession with myriad dimensions of entropy, Thomas?
The executor of Pierce’s will, Maas is relentlessly under hallucinogenic high with a healthy sexual appetite.
What was that blessed letter Maas got which made her frantically drive up to San Narciso.
Better watch out for the non-linear existence of Metzger Mike Fallopian, Nefastis and Cohen, they could be a handful with their coherent scientific interpretations.Stamps- Things I used to like licking as a kid.
Suddenly I have an urge to listen to Beatles and roll a rizla at Tristero.

A novel where the plot isn’t used to move the story but to move the language, to compel it.
If you’re wanting a good story, this probably isn’t what you’re looking for (so, by all means, blame the author for you’re having read the wrong book).
If you’re looking for a good story told with a compelling use of language—language to be savored and considered and wallowed in—this is a great one.
For a good intro to this novel (especially for those who miss the days of an inspired professor talking about a favorite book) consider Amy Hungerford’s classroom discussion of The Crying of Lot 49 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3dtqt0...
One of most intriguing moments of the class came during the famous ‘play within the play’ part of Hamlet, where Hamlet puts on a play to show the king that he knows what had really happened to Hamlet’s father.
Although our teacher outlined the importance of the scene and the role it served, when the audiobook got around to the dialogue of that meta-play, our teacher held up a flapping hand, speaking loudly over the recording telling us that there was no need to pay attention to this scene, as it was literal gibberish nonsense, its meaning so obfuscated so as not to even be bothered to be given any thought.
