https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25817162-america-s-first-daughter
This book is downright delicious, and hands-down wins the award for my favorite novel of Revolutionary America.
Thomas Jefferson has always been my favorite Founding Father, simply because he's so darn enigmatic.
While the events are told from Patsy's point of view, the entire world of Revolutionary America and France, Monticello and Washington City unfold to breathe new life into a dusty chapter of American history.
Patsy Jefferson is as complicated a character as her father ever was, and I suspect that she'd be proud of the way Stephanie Dray and Laura Kamoie have retold her life in this amazing novel.
DNA testing has today shown that Sally Hemings' children were fathered by Thomas Jefferson but very little is known about the complicated personal relationships that existed between Sally and Thomas Jefferson as well as between Martha, nicknamed Patsy, and her husband Thomas Mann Randolph, Jr. What is offered here is merely one possibility.So the authors wished to romanticize.
While the relationship between Patsy and Short is possible, there is no substantial evidence of its existence.
The authors state that we are getting Patsy’s view and that they wish to write a story with dramatic punch!
This novel took me by surprise.
The writing started off a bit shaky, however once Dray & Kalmore found their rhythm the writing became much more fluid and completely sucked me into the story.
What I knew of Thomas Jefferson was from high school and college history classes, so I was not expecting his story to read like a soap opera.
And Patsy.
The sacrifices she made for her father and for his legacy are staggering.
I don't know that history would've embraced him as reverently as it has if not for her efforts.
'Behind Every Great Man Is An Even Greater Woman'.
Definitely well-researched, the authors do an excellent job of bringing the era to life.
While seemingly a paragon of female virtue at times Patsy played fast and loose with the truth.
Patsy was fiercely loyal to her father and her family and she didn’t have an easy life.
The work of daily life was hard and the sacrifices were many.
Overall, this book teeters on the edge of the melodramatic and I seriously doubt that Patsy played as pivotal a role in the making of a nation as was portrayed.
AMERICA’S FIRST DAUGHTER is the story of a generation caught between the past and the future of a nation, and illuminates how the actions of one woman managed to sustain a family in spite of the consequences of both privilege and poverty. Not since GONE WITH THE WIND has a single volume family saga so brilliantly portrayed the triumphs, trials, and sins of a family in the American South.Highly, highly, highly recommended.
Jefferson said to be "a swindler begot by a mulatto upon a half breed Indian squaw" and Adams was called a hermaphrodite.
Her mother died when she was young in childbirth so Martha was by Jefferson's side throughout his career.
What to do?Jefferson wrote those famous words, all men are considered equal but not women or slaves.
He wrote in a letter on the subject, "Justice is on one scale, and self-preservation in the other." Martha had 11 children (tired just writing that) and raised her husband's sisters.
This is an interesting book and I really learned a lot.
I'd like to read a good book about her.
"Wonderfully readably and extensively researched; fiction that is built upon facts and/or widely presumed inferences and accepted conclusions, with only a modicum of creative liberty taken here and there for enhanced dramatic affect.
And women would lie for it."  America's First Daughter is powerfully enthralling, addictively entertaining, and decidedly eye-opening in regards to Thomas Jefferson and his eldest daughter, Patsy, their private affairs, political parleying, and conflicting ideologies, in addition to the general temperament/mindsets and societal expectations of the times - both in Virginia and Paris.
FIVE **** Historical Fiction Par Excellence: Readable and Noteworthy, Enlightening and Highly Entertaining ***** STARS
Drawing upon authentic letters written during that period of time, Patsy' s story with her father begins with his death as she explores the thousands of letters that Jefferson wrote during his lifetime and reflects back on how her father should be remembered.
In Virginia it wasn't a matter of pride---- it was a matter of survival.
Patsy Jefferson is a woman of her time (albeit a very privileged one ) and we do see the young nation with its many contrasts ( equality for all versus slavery for some).
Patsy Jefferson isn't a famous figure in American history, but she should be: everything that we know about her father Thomas Jefferson--and the nation he shaped--came to us through the hands of his daughter, who saw her life's work as shielding his legacy.
Her life is chronicled through the years as her father's helpmeet, steadfastly at his side through the revolutionary years in France, the White House years acting as his First Lady, and his old age when the nation he helped found hit its growing pains.
An absorbing, compelling read!*I am acquainted with the authors, but became an honest fan of their work years before I met them in person and became friends.
It a historical fiction as well as a tragic love story and gave an outstanding example of Patsy, who truly was intriguing to read about.America's First Daughter follows (obviously) Thomas Jefferson's eldest daughter, Martha "Patsy" Jefferson Randolph, as the synopis says, starting at age nine.
It takes place in America, when Patsy and her father went to France and then back to America.
5 amazing informative superlative starsMy reviews can be seen here: https://yayareadslotsofbooks.wordpres...After having read and so enjoyed Stephanie Dray and Laura Kamoie's book My Dear Hamilton, I knew I needed to read their America's First Daughter.
Happy to say I was not disappointed in their writing, the story they told, and their attention to the life of Martha, (Patsy) Jefferson.Patsy was totally devoted to her father, Thomas, and knew how much he loved his family.
They had thirteen children, eleven of which survived into adulthood.This was a fascinating story showing what is the best in the historical fiction novel genre and giving those who love this type of book many happy hours of intriguing thoughts and words.
Gorgeous Cover Reveal!  Blurb:In a compelling, richly researched novel that draws from thousands of letters and original sources, bestselling authors Stephanie Dray and Laura Kamoie tell the fascinating, untold story of Thomas Jefferson’s eldest daughter, Martha “Patsy” Jefferson Randolph—a woman who kept the secrets of our most enigmatic founding father and shaped an American legacy.From her earliest days, Martha "Patsy" Jefferson knows that though her father loves his family dearly, his devoti
Blurb:In a compelling, richly researched novel that draws from thousands of letters and original sources, bestselling authors Stephanie Dray and Laura Kamoie tell the fascinating, untold story of Thomas Jefferson’s eldest daughter, Martha “Patsy” Jefferson Randolph—a woman who kept the secrets of our most enigmatic founding father and shaped an American legacy.From her earliest days, Martha "Patsy" Jefferson knows that though her father loves his family dearly, his devotion to his country runs deeper still.
This is an interesting historical fiction that centers around Thomas Jefferson’s daughter Patsy and the choices she made to support her father (and essentially sacrifice her own wants and desires in doing so.) So much historical information and details conveyed in this one.
I think the biggest overall emotion that comes to me as I read was just the overall sense of powerlessness the vast majority of people had over their own lives and outcomes at the time, with the exception of a few wealthy, white male landowners.
Not a great time to live for the vast majority of people.
This novel utilizes the letters that Thomas Jefferson wrote and received in his life, whilst reminding us that it was Patsy who guarded these letters.
Of course this isn’t a bad thing, history is compelling in itself, however I do feel that when the lines are so tightly set the author runs the risk of also putting their imagination on a tight leash and thus creating a very prosaic novel.For me personally I read historical fiction for two purposes.
First I gather as much knowledge as I can about a subject and then I read a novel that brings it to life for me.
The forgotten Jefferson, Martha “Patsy” takes center stage in this moving epic about impossible choices and Jefferson’s eldest daughter’s conflicted devotion to her father, her country and herself. America’s First Daughter is historical fiction of the highest quality. The authors’ meticulous research is evident on every page and yet never overpowers their skillful storytelling. This is a novel to savor and yet you’ll find yourself turning pages as quickly as possible because you have to know what happens next. The fact that it’s a true story makes it all the richer.
This is a must-read, especially if you are a fan of historical fiction.The story begins at the end of Jefferson's long, distinguished life.
His daughter, Martha "Patsy" Jefferson Randolph, is preparing her father's private papers, documents, and personal correspondence for publication.
I feel I must say this because I read so many reviews by readers that don't get the concept of historical fiction and end up slamming an outstanding book negatively because of inaccuracies.
Day. I'm telling you now, historical fiction authors know their history!!
Hmm. Historical fiction authors ROCK!!
America's First Daughter by Stephanie Dray and Laura Kamoie is written as a novel but uses so much research to tell the story of Thomas Jefferson's daughter Martha Patsy Jefferson Randolph.I haven't spent so much time reading a single book for years.
It allowed the authors to delve into the ideas of Jefferson's personal life--though it could be seen as apologetic, it offered sympathy and understanding to a confusing and horrific issue.The time I spent reading America's First Daughter was valuable and enjoyable.
Like Dray and Kamoie wanted Patsy to just be grown up so they quickly got the reader there.
I felt like an outsider looking in instead of this being told from her PoV.
The letters voices' were different than that of Patsy through the writing, so I struggled to believe that they were from the same person.I read all of Stephanie Dray's novels about Cleopatra's daughter and thoroughly enjoyed them, so this book was a disappointment.
I was looking forward to reading this book and enjoying it--based on the number of five star reviews--like so many other people have.
It's refreshing to read such a wonderfully written novel.The novel is told from the point of view of Martha (Patsy) Jefferson Randolph, oldest daughter of Thomas Jefferson.
She looks back over her entire life as she goes through her father's letters after his death.
On her mother's deathbed, Patsy promises to look after her father and that's exactly how she spends her life.
Patsy settles down and marries Tom Randolph and bears him 11 children.
But Patsy's constant role is as her father's protector.
This is the story of her life as she lives to look after her father.This is a definite historical masterpiece.
5.5 starsI think this is Stephanie Dray's best book yet and she is a favourite of mine (her HF, that is).
I take note that she is a joint author with Laura Kamoie, a historian.
I have history with authors claiming to be historians but I believe this one!
The characterisation throughout was convincing and had an authentic voice.So, my congratulations to both authors!
Stephanie Dray's book America's First Daughter is a book about freedom, slavery, and the lack of women's rights .
Martha "Patsy" Jefferson Randolph, the eldest daughter of Thomas Jefferson, tells her story from age 10 when her mother dies until after the death of her father.
She tells of her years in Paris going to a convent school, her first love, her fears in the French Revolution, her marriage, her choices, her 11 children and of course her father.
The reader experiences her anguish, fears, joys and sadness.
It’s not like writing about ancient Rome or the crusades, because the people Stephanie and Laura are writing about here are real people whose families still exist and might be picking up the book and reading about great, great, great, great grandpappy.
To tackle such troubling social situations involving those families is impressive.One line from the book that stays with me and goes some way to explaining the epic scale of the work is “Though I’ve known personally five of the six presidents before him…”If you are a lover of deep, very personal, very emotional prose, then you’ll probably buy this without my recommendation.
Each chapter begins with a quotation from one of Thomas Jefferson's many thousands of letters written throughout his career.Patsy (her childhood nickname) lost her mother at the young age of eight and had promised to not only care for her younger sisters (Polly and baby Lucy), but also to keep her father, the famous Thomas Jefferson, from grieving too deeply.
The first half of the book centers on Martha's growing up years, much of it in France when Thomas Jefferson was sent as ambassador.
An amazing piece of fiction based on an enormous amount of historical research, this novel will churn your emotions.I can't say that this book impressed me in the beginning and I wondered about the hype.
I grew to love and respect this piece of historical fiction, but it wasn't always an easy book to read.
AMERICA'S FIRST DAUGHTER begins when Martha Jefferson is fifteen years old and follows her life as an adult until after her father's death.
I wasn't getting a true sense of who she was, a teenager or an adult, until I remembered that in that time period, young women were getting married at fifteen and expected to handle grownup responsibilities.
This book chronicles the sacrifice and cost of her unending devotion to supporting her beloved father and protecting his legacy.
She was also heroically devoted and capable of both enormous compassion and sacrifice."If you're a fan of historical fiction (heavy emphasis on historical), you will love this book and its focus on one remarkable woman doing her best to survive in the most turbulent time in American history.
I don't even want to review this book...it's so good, I'd never do it justice so I'll keep it short. Totally blown away by the writing, not to mention the historical details and obvious research that went into it. As the kids say these days "I am deceased" (aka in total awe). America's First Daughter is Patsy Jefferson, and what a character she is. A fast read despite its 600 pages, and utterly compelling from start to finish.
And so it goes for Martha "Patsy" Jefferson Randolph.
Sisters, husband, children, but father.
Of course her father is none other but Thomas Jefferson, the man known not only for drafting the Declaration of Independence but also fleeing his state of Virginia during the American Revolution, a complete egomaniac.
Although a loving creature, she cares for no one like she does her Papa, never begrudging him all she sacrifices for his good name.
These sacrifices lead her to develop a most meddlesome personality.
Martha is for the most part a likable heroine who takes on the world in the midst of revolution.
She is her father's daughter.
What a tremendous undertaking! Dray spins a captivating tale based on the letters of Thomas Jefferson through the live of his daughter Martha Jefferson. I think I learned more history about our country's beginnings from this book than any textbook and years of education. Thank you! This will remain on my shelf forever as reference and entertainment.
It has been such a treat to see more histfic set in America on the market and with great books like this, I am hopeful that this trend will continue!Often in historical fiction, it seems that the action is centered around one or a few events.
In this case, the authors' are able to show how Patsy grows and changes throughout the book so by the end, I felt like I really understood where she was coming from and wanted more!
I really liked the way the authors treated all of these hurdles throughout the book.
This book is a treat!
And I was perplexed by the early very young, and inappropriate, romance that Dray includes.
I have no idea if there is any actual historical substantiation to her claims of this romance between Jefferson's assistant and his daughter.
I switched to audiobook to see if I could get more out of the book.
I am not a fan of first person POV, but at the beginning I felt like that was completely appropriate for Dray to use.
The problem was that as the book continued on I grew wearier and wearier of the first person POV account.
This book is not a romance but a historical fiction.
