https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26599.Selected_Poems
I am particularly in love with how he uses the words themselves and these incredible grammatical distortions as living things - not just tools, to make his stories and sentences come to life.
Here, have a few examples, and be convinced!:"pity this busy monster,manunkind,not" (manunkind is the most magnificent play on words)or "nobody,not even the rain,has such small hands" a favourite line of mine, I love the idea of the rain having small hands - perhaps then getting soaked is an embrace?These don't even begin to touch the variety or beauty and wit of the poems in this book - there's a very wide selection, both in themes and in style, so if you feel you want to get to know E.E. Cummings (a pursuit I can only recommend) this is a good place to start.
"time is a tree (this life one leaf)but love is the sky and i am for you just so long and long enough"I have been teary-eyed, breathless and left in a deep trance as I read through these pages.
Grateful that I made the effort and took the time to let the words speak for themselves.
'Cause they really do have a lot to say.Cummings had a peculiar way with words and even punctuation.
E. Cummings probably wrote some of the most beautiful love poems of all-time.
Another collection I wish I could give 5 stars to. Cummings was truly a wordsmith and I was in awe by several of his beautiful poems. However, at times I felt as though I was reading Finnegan’s Wake; some of the poems were just a bit too crazy and nonsensical.And as for favourites, here’s mine:“some ask praise of their fellowsbut i being otherwisemade composure curvesand yellows, angles or silencesto a less erring end)myself is sculptor ofyour body’s idiom:the musician of your wrists;the poet who is afraidonly to mistranslatea rhythm in your hair,(your fingertipsthe way you move)”
True, e e cummings was doing new things with poetry, but I have read better poets, or at least poets I liked better, who were also brilliant.
Also, to be honest, some of the sections were things I never like, such as a long section of satirical poetry and a section of erotica.
I will also admit that when I ordered this book from the library I wrote ee cummings in a brain fart when I wanted to read Ogden Nash--two very different poets.
I have never read a collection of Ogden Nash, either, and am not sure how that will go when I someday do that, but hopefully better.
Well, he gave us the perfect line: cut, edgy, bold; like a shining diamond.
He was more modern than the modern poets today.
In times when almost everyone wrote like they wrote 200 years ago he showed us that there is another way to put the lines, another way to go at the subject; you can just cut it in half and to hell with it.
One of the best avant-gard poets and he was guarding his style with his massive work, you know.
So read, you all, Edward Estlin Cummings, just to know that there is still some beauty in the poetry today; that not all of it is academic and dry as bacon.
this edition is wonderfully organized. it's split into sections, and each contains an introduction of biographical context. (also, i didn't read this in one day: i've been slowly reading it over time, but forgot to mark when i started it. such is life.)
Reading this collection was like watching an impressive fireworks show!The greatest moments of excitement did not come instantaneously at the first encounter with the poems –it took me some time to see beautiful images and feel vibrations of meanings penetrating my heart.
So much delight to spend some time inside!To me, the most beautiful poem from the entire collection is the one for his mother ( from whom he inherited his poetic gift)"if there are any heavens my mother will(all by herself)haveone.
I got to know E.E. Cummings through Youtube, YES, he was among certain poets Tom Hiddleston read for.
He read May I Feel Said He; a really dirty poem.
So yep, I got my hands on Cummings as soon as I could, and I was happy that his other poems were as dirty and erotic as my first impression of him.
E.E Cummings is hard to resist, and this collection gives a great insight into his unique poetry as he doesn't follow any traditional rule or pattern, he makes his own words and rules.
I've been on a bit of a poetry binge so decided to get this book and see if I liked more of his work.I really do enjoy it.
There are little intros to the sections which help explain a lot about some of the poems thank god.
To work out the layers and meanings and these really helped.
You feel like you deserve to understand the beauty and the humour he's portraying after suffering over a passage or a turn of phrase for a while.It's beautiful and this copy is a lovely selection
The Greatest American Poet of the 20th Century. That's all.
Some poems did not catch my interest despite their linguistic acrobatics, but for the most part, this was an interesting collection with many memorable poems.
your slightest look will easily unclose me though i have closed myself as fingers,you open always petal by petal myself as Spring opens(touching skilfully, mysteriously)her first roseor if your wish be to close me,i andmy life will shut very beautifully,suddenly,as when the heart of this flower imaginesthe snow carefully everywhere descending;(i do not know what it is about you that closesand opens;only something in me understandsthe voice of your eyes is deeper than all roses)Hays. Nakakakilig.
Sevenleri, Cummings’i neden sevdiklerini hatırlasın, kendisiyle önceden tanışmamış olanlar da ne yapmaya çalıştığını iyi anlasın diye (bence yani) farklı bölümlere ayırmışlar kitabı: bir çocuğun dünyası, insan olmanın farklı boyutları ve tabii ki aşk gibi… E.E. Cummings şiirleri, insanın beynine, kalbine, pek çok hise dokunan türden şiirler.Björk’ün şarkıya çevirdiği, en sevdiğim şiirinin kitapta yer almaması beni biraz üzdü doğru söylemem gerekirse.
Ama en azından I Like My Body When It’s With Your‘u dahil ettikleri için affettim gitti.Gördüğüm kadarıyla Türkçe’ye çevirilen Seçilmiş Şiirler kitabının baskısı yok artık; o nedenle pek alıntı veremiyorum size.
Ama “nedir yahu bu adamın olayı?” diye merak edenleriniz varsa Türkçe’ye çevirilen şiirlerinden bazılarını siir.alternatifim.com sitesinde buldum.
OK, I know it's kind of cheating when I put a poetry collection on my shelf, thereby adding it to my reading challenge, but on a normal basis I would read poetry books by flipping randomly to a page, read one or two poems, and then set it back down, perhaps picking it back up weeks later.
But E.E. Cummings' collection is the only poetry book I've actually read cover to cover, marking each poem that resonated deeply within me (the Contents page is now near full with highlights).I read them all within a single day, and then spent the next few days rereading them and falling more deeply in love.
He's so weird.
I love him.
This is why I read poetry-- I don't feel like I'm supposed to get all of it.
I don't want to constantly read things that I think I could have written.
Sometimes it's nice, when a writer reaches into your soul and pulls it out on paper, but e.e. cummings shows me a whole new picture, one I have never seen before, and it's muddled and confusing but it fills me with awe.
But it stretches and redefines the limits of what poetry is, to me, and the parts I get I carry in my heart (haha!
*3.5 stars*First off, just let me say that even though I "only" gave this 3.5 stars, I really did enjoy it, and I consider Cummings one of my favorite poets.
However, I have to rate this as a cumulative piece of work, and there were so many poems (around 150 I believe) that overall it was such a mixed bag.
I think it's a great collection of his poetry if you like him, I really appreciated the little essays before each section, and there are definitely some standouts within the book.
Overall I think this was a well-rounded collection of his work that I would definitely recommend if you enjoy Cummings!
This was not my cup of tea. I don't love poetry generally and I found most of this to be nonsensical. If you're the type of person who enjoys sitting and reading poems, spending time interpreting them and appreciating variances in form and verse etc., you might enjoy this. For me, it was more of a headache than anything else. Some verses and poems were entertaining, and I can see that E.E. Cummings was thought-provoking, experimental, and thoughtful, but it's just not for me.
I cannot read 'anyone lived in a pretty how town' aloud without crying. I think it's one of the most perfect poems ever written. Everything he wrote in the height of his career in the 30's and 40's is pretty much terrific. It's a shame that he lost it later on and grew cynical and complacent, but I guess he earned it. These are some of my favorite poems to teach, if for nothing other than confounding the students with the diction.
I don't really care for poetry and decided to give it another try with Cummings. Alas, I love his poems but I'm still on the fence with poetry in general. Thanks to a college professor who ruined my love for it a few years ago. Maybe I will come around one day.
O e.e. cummings,i love,the words andmashed and somethingsrules aren't realit would domany of us goodto ,some, remember
real good primer on ee cummings, learnt a lot and really loved it also im in such a reading funk at the moment, does anyone have any recs?
I love love love love it. Cummings was a creative genius. Read his poems. *in time of all sweet things beyondwhatever mind may comprehendremember seek (forgetting find) and in a mystery to be (when time from time shall set us free)forgetting me,remember me*if a world ends more tha all worlds begin to(see?) begin*-far away(as far as alive)liesapril;and i breathe-move-and-seem someperpetually roaming whylessness-*wherelings, whenlings(daughers of if but offspring of hopefearsos of unless and children of almost)
უნდა ვაღიარო,ზოგიერთი ლექსი ძალიან მოსაწყენად მომეჩვენა,თუმცა,მთლიანობაში,ძალიან ლამაზია,რასაც და როგორც წერდა. ა,ბატონო: What if a dawn of a doom of a dreambites this universe in two,peels forever out of his grave,and sprinkles nowhere with me and you?
I really didn't think I would love his poetry as much as I did. I haven't met a poet in a long time that I wanted to memorize several pieces of their work. He has an amazing ability to craft words and phrases and feelings. This is going on my favorites shelf at home. As a point of note - there are some sections of poetry that focus on the erotic and I passed over that. But the other sections on non-erotic love, the seasons, religion, and war were phenomenal.
-1 ⭐ por los poemas dadaístas. Lo demás es sublime. ♥️
Will investigate Cummings further, as this was fantastic.
I decided to read more about him and learned that he was a visual artist and that fascinated me even more.
There are poems in there that I can't decipher but I find myself coming back to them over and over again...and when I do "get" what he was trying to do with the placement of words, or with a line break, or a parenthesis, I scream with excitement.
Now that I do write poems for the page, I have him as a model.
He's taught me - and continues to - how to use the page to represent my words in a very visually engaging way.
It's organized and invites you into his life with more depth and understanding than you would have if you were reading them separately.I've come across quite a few poems that have made my heart ache with their beauty.
Sticky notes have become mine and this book's friend.'The Cubist Break-Up' section was enjoyable until the eighth poem, and now my brain just hurts.And I'm quite disappointed that this selection of poems didn't include 'i carry your heart', 'you are tired (i think)', and a few other ones.
But then again, this is a selection and not a complete collection (though it still bothers me because 'i carry your heart' is my favourite).
life is more true than reason will deceive(more secret or than madness did reveal)deeper is life than lose:higher than have–but beauty is more each than living’s allmultiplied with infinity sans ifthe mightiest meditations of mankindcanceled are by one merely opening leaf(beyond whose nearness there is no beyond)or does some littler bird than eyes can learnlook up to silence and completely sing?futures are obsolete:pasts are unborn(here less than nothing’s more than everything)death,as men call him, ends what they call men-but beauty is more now than dying’s when
Well, that was somethin'! I don't do much poetry. Perhaps that is why although Cummings's brilliance is obvious, I didn't care for most of the non-traditional forms. A few of them seemed like well crafted puzzles that I was happy to have unlocked, but most of the others didn't have much meaning for me. I do have to say though, that when he did stick to the traditional forms, especially the sonnet, I enjoyed him very much.
