https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/529252.Double_Love
How unjust it seemed at the time that I must share my name with the wanton airhead twin, while brainy, responsible, wonderful Elizabeth wrote for the school newspaper, and clearly had all her kind, charitable, writerly priorities in perfect place.
When I was in elementary school, I had friends who weren't allowed to read Sweet Valley High, who were left with the vastly inferior Sweet Valley Twins series, which was stupid and boring with no boyfriends or kidnapping or motorcycle crashes, and was just about going to ballet lessons and Unicorn Club meetings....
SVH: WTF? Cover Models: Jessica and ElizabethPage count: 182Special Event: Some sorority thing.Number of times "a hundred and thirty-seven" was mentioned: Two, plus five hundred and thirty-seven and seven hundred and thirty-seven. See below.Mental Illness Winner of the Week: Jessica. Is there any surprise there?Jessica's Bitchyness scale: ***** (out of five)WTFery Meter: ****1/2 stars (out of five)-------------------------Quotes & Snarky comments:What a peach:"How can you be best friends wi
Yeah, real selfless of ya, Jess."He has got to be the most wonderful boy in a hundred and thirty-seven states!" - Jessica, page 108 Uh, she does realize there are only 50, right?Elizabeth wondered how her sister could possibly descend from cloud nine with Todd Wilkins to the pits of depression so fast and simply because she had to do a little thing like help fix dinner.
Way to go Steve!"I'll never forgive you, not if I live to be a hundred and thirty-seven years." - Jessica, page 182Aah!
these books made me feel worse about myself than my parents, the media and every man i've ever known combined. i mean, talk about a self esteem body slam, these books damaged pretty much every lady i know in the 24-34 age range. I mean, some really fucked up shit...I think they even made fun of retarded people. Terrible.But fuck it if I still don't want to be them. UGH THAT FRANCINE PASCAL IS GOOD!!!
She letsThe cop believe she's Eliz.Much gossip ensues.The whole school believesThis BS; not one soul stopsTo think, hey, maybeWe're gossiping 'boutThe wrong twin!
Jess goesTo the dance with Todd,Liz's crush.
Side storiesAbound, but they are evenMore dull than the mainOne. Cheesy dude Rick"Talked the way he drove - fast andDangerously." HeAlso nicknames Jess"Heaven." Is anyone elseHere suppressing theUrge to vomit?
Liz: repulsed.Rick tries to kidnapThe girls and take them to theEvil bar.
Liz and ToddRealize Jess's lies.
AndShe gets the school to once moreConfuse the twins withEach other so thatJessica gets thrown in thePool.
I was about 11/12 years old when I got hooked.
I'd sit on the floor in the bookshop and have half the newest book read by the time my mum said it was time to go.My high school life was nothing like these books so these were pure escapism for me.
Pure fantasy.
I recall loving all of the series and had my set on display until I hit my Goth years at 15 when they went to be replaced with much darker books like Dracula and Poe. 5 stars for this first book and the series.
Fond memories of my early teens reading these.
I remember reading this in High School, but I can't remember if I enjoyed it or not hahaha
I read a lot of these books, so this review goes for the entire series.I found these books in middle school and fell in love with them.
I hadn't been a big reader up to this point, but these books drew me in and wouldn't let me go.
I read nonstop.
I read during class when I was supposed to be learning.
I read during dinner.
I read in bed.
I loved these books.
One of my friends bought all these books and let me read them.
I miss those days of reading something I loved all day long.
Nostalgia! I LOVED these books as a schoolgirl!!!! This series helped me become the avid reader I am today. My Mom or Dad would take me every couple weeks to buy one at the local B Dalton Booksellers at the mall once I had saved up enough of my allowance to get a new one.
I had more or less forgotten about the Wakefield twins until I listened to an episode of the SSR Podcast about one of the books.
I'm now the owner of the first twelve books in the series and it was the exact palate cleanser that I needed.Jessica Wakefield is a complete sociopath and her family is full of people who are either A) enablers, or B) completely terrified of her.
This book was ridiculous and left me feeling snarky and ready to dish with literal anyone who will listen.
So as a result, when I graduated from the Babysitters Club on to the Sweet Valley series I ended up reading the horrible 90s add-ons, such as Jr. High and Senior Year, and the reissues of the later books in the SVH series, where the twins work as au-pairs in France and get jobs at a fashion magazine.
While 'Double Love' isn't going to make it on to my list of favourite Sweet Valley books of all time, I do wish I'd had the chance to read it as a teenager as I'm sure that I would have loved it.
Her sister, Elizabeth Wakefield is a doormat.
In the first SVH book, Liz has fallen head over perfect-size-six-ass in love with Todd (affectionately known on our blog as Throat Punch Todd or TPT.) Jess decides this can't happen because all boys must love her.
So, basically we get a book full of Jessica cockblocking her own sister, Elizabeth crying a whole freakin' lot and uh, doormat-ing.
Jess gets sexually harassed by someone because that is what happens in Sweet Valley.
All's well that ends well when Liz and Todd talk it out and realize that Jess is just a crazy bitch.
How about a long conversation over clams and a shake at the Dairi Burger tonight?" The only proper answer to this inquiry is, "Who DOESN'T want to have a long chat over clams and milkshakes?" It's the combo of champions!"Within seconds, he had jumped into his Datsun and was speeding after them." The mention of a Datsun is just amazing!As a child, I only read books 1 and 2 of the Sweet Valley Twins series.
It started when I was either 8 or 9 when my dad bought me a SVT from the bookstore I spied in the bookstore.
From then on until I was 14, I've read everything in SVT, SVH and SVU and I had the complete collections.
I went on a holiday and during that time, our house was flooded and about 500+ of my books (other YA novels - all Christopher Pikes, Nancy Drew) were wet and beyond saving.
I got home and they were burning all the wet books in our backyard and I was just heartbroken.
I just bought the first 25 books on Ebay to again start my collection.
Home to perfect size-six California-gorgeous Wakefield twins Jessica (the sociopath and flirt) and Elizabeth (the writer and actually, a bit of a sociopath herself).I loved reading these books as a youngster.
They seemed so grown-up!
And looking back on them now, they still seem grown-up.
So many tragedies, everybody was always hardcore in love (without having sex), they dressed all mature and everything was drama, drama, drama.
My goal is to get my hands on as many of these as I can find - I don't think I saved them at home.
Sweet Valley was never again as Sweet Valley as in this book.
Jessica was never again either so devious or so quick to change emotions as to suggest she has a serious personality disorder, Elizabeth was never so saintly or such an incredibly deadly doormat, Todd never again had anything approaching a personality.
Liz is particularly awesome - she spend the entire book weeping over what a terrible person she is not to roll over and beg herself to trample on her quite quickly enough, although she's always pretty fast off the mark.
The good news is I read a BUNCH of these as kid and still grew up to be a feminist.The bad news is basically everything else??http://www.frowl.org/worstbestsellers...
I always remember identifying with Elizabeth to some extent (her love for school and journalism), but now that I read this as an "adult", I realized that I am not much like her when it comes to her personality - she forgives literally everything Jessica does (who is a total bitch btw).
But despite all of that, there's no way I could give this any less than 5 stars, just because of the fact that I still remember how much I loved these books over 10 years ago :D
I read this series of books when they first came out a long time ago I decided to read these books again just for fun and for a quick read. this book was still cute and fun. I read it on my kindle.
2/5Maybe it’s because this book was published so long ago, but like how does anyone like either of these twins?Jessica is a total bitch, who actually seems to think attempting to steal her sister’s would-be boyfriend is no big deal.Meanwhile Elizabeth wouldn’t know a spine if it walked up and inserted itself into her back.
Neither of these girls were likeable and it wasn’t even a good thing like it can be for some novels.
Instead they were two girls that I wanted to yell at, entire book.
It is like finding out my high school crush turns out to be not charming anymore and that sinking feeling of having bad taste bugs me no end.
In this book, I didn't enjoy reading what a meanie Jessica is to her sister.
There were of course some parts that I enjoyed reading like how Elizabeth gets back at her sister towards the end of the book and some of the dialogues were fun to read too.
It is a quick and instant fix read when you feel nostalgic, like very, and crave for some high school reminiscence.
Okay, I've read all the original SVH books a hundred times, but I'll only add this one to my list for simplicities sake.
What can I say, I think it's more nostalgia than anything, but these books have a special place in my heart.
I've read a couple of the updated books and didn't like them at all; I didn't think they held true to the original story.
On a side note, I always loved the beginning of the books where Ms Pascal described the twins and their "perfect size 6 figures," so I couldn't help but note that the twins slimmed down in the modern version- size 4.
Look who's back!
It's our favorite twins Elizabetha nd Jessica Wakefield.
I got this pre pub in and I thought it was a joke.
Cougar thought Francine Pascal was dead.
I'm so happy!So it looks like Bantam is trying to compete with Gossip Girl and all the Priv.
Jessica and Elizabeth are now a size 4 instead of a "perfect size 6." I guess they were too fat before.
They no longer drive a Spider or hang out at the Dairy Barn or whatever.
It's a tao stand and they drive a Jeep.
Ah, the Wakefield twins.
I read over a hundred SVH books when I was actually in Jr High, many many years ago.
I remember going to the library every week or so during the summers and getting another 8 or 10 books to devour.
SVH was undoubtedly in that pile, somewhere.
Because of the Wakefield's, I have had a lifelong obsession with wanting to own a Fiat.
I never even knew what one looked like, but it sounded exotic and fast.
I may need to revisit these in the future and see if they were as fun as I remember.
I read this book so often that I have resorted to the trick of reviewing under different editions in order to have it count in multiple years' reading challenges. Yes, I read it yet again. I was taking study notes. I enjoyed it anyway ;p
Continuing my stroll down memory lane, I'm adding the first Sweet Valley High to my read list. I'm not going to go on to add the other twenty or so books in the series I'm semi-ashamed to have read. I think this was a 6th grade project of mine....
I absolutely adored these books when I was growing up.
4 stars for nostalgia ... Obviously compared to the YA we have now, these books can't compare, but they do have a special place in my heart. Love the memories!
I loved this book. I especially liked where Elizabeth got even with Jessica at the end of the book.
While Elizabeth relies upon blushing glances, Jessica is far more proactive when it comes to nabbing her man, thus entangling Todd just enough to make Liz believe the two are together.
Her big dream is to be a writer, much like every female on the internet between the ages of ten and thirty, and she writes the school gossip column, "Eyes and Ears", so she's obviously well on her way to fame and fortune.
Drives a pimped-out silver Camaro, smells like a combination of petrol and leather, and is a fan of cigarettes and underage drinking.Mr Collins: Faculty adviser for the Oracle and in possession of strawberry-blonde hair."Chrome Dome" Cooper: The "stuffy" principal of SVH.
Wow, I'd forgotten how unhealthy EVERY SINGLE RELATIONSHIP IN THIS SERIES IS.Born of the soap opera generation we have the Wakefield Twins living out lives of quiet desperation, where they're constantly floundering for control, undermining each other, creating drama where none needs to be created, and otherwise acting like idiots.
Apparently so because they have drama of their own that affects the lives of their children.Knowing where the series goes, now when I read this book I see a lot I didn't before.
It's interesting to see the side characters now and compare them with their incarnations in other series within the SV universe.But really, this book doesn't model anything healthy at all.
