https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6294549-rosemary-and-rue
2/7/18 - ON SALE for $1.99:  http://amzn.to/2fFn8pCReviewed by: Rabid ReadsThere are two things I want to tell you in advance:1.  October Daye  is one of my Top 5 Favorite UF Series.2. The first time I tried to read ROSEMARY AND RUE, I DNF-ed it.YEP. I did.I didn't pick it up again for a couple of years, and when I did, it was b/c DESPERATE for new UF.So I was more patient . . . Which was good, b/c I made it past the '90s flashback of a prologue, and the depths-of-despair aftermath that had init
*waves at Tybalt* Once he showed up, it was easy to push through the next couple of chapters, then Toby was back in thick of things.
*orbit gum smile*October Daye is a changeling, or part fae/part human.
*winks*Which brings me to how fantastic McGuire's writing is across the board--not only is this series about fae, but her style embodies the very faeness that makes them my FAEvorite:
Do you see why I'm hooked?ROSEMARY AND RUE is the first installment of Seanan McGuire's OCTOBER DAYE series, and it is the full package.
The Winter Long (October Daye, #8)
So, Steven recommended this to me, and since I've enjoyed his recommendations in the past...I snagged this one from my library the same day.Was it any good?Hmm. Kinda.I'm going to settle on 3 stars, because it wasn't bad, but I wasn't immediately sucked into the world, the plot, or any of the characters.
And now I'd step on my children to get a copy of either of those series' new books.(view spoiler)[That's only KINDA true.
And you, Jessica, with your fantastic review that had me nodding along, and getting excited to do a re-read of a book I wasn't even sure I liked all that much!You two better not let me down...
I don't mean to insult the fae is this particular book, I'm talking about the silly fae in general here *eyeroll* Because yes, the time has come for me to confess the awful truth: my name is Sarah and I don't like the fae.
I'm useless and I'm bland.So we have a pretty boring, lackluster story about the silly fae.
You're so funny, you crack me up!!!▧ Pre-review nonsense:► BR with my MacHalo Freaks starting Oct 5, 2015.✔ Bleh.✔ Meh.✔ Yawn.This has to be one of the most boring, lackluster books I have read this year.
Because Toby loves and respects the Duke, she will try and find his wife and daughter.Toby is able to find Simon in the San Francisco Japanese Tea Gardens.
Just to add some emotional angst for Toby because before she was with her human lover Cliff, she was with Devin.We meet Sylvester who Toby seems to still respect but can’t stand at the same time.
His wife and daughter were returned safe and sound and Toby never once confronts these people as to where they were or wanting revenge against Simon who gave her gills.
That never happens.We never meet Cliff or Gilly because for reasons I can’t think of, they feel betrayed by Toby.
Well, it wasn’t hard to guess who the killer was, but it hurt like hell for the fact that the one who tried to kill her was (view spoiler)[the one she fully trusted (hide spoiler)].My only major problem with this book was TOBY.
I went into the book expecting Toby to be a kick-ass heroine, instead, I found a very weak character.
She couldn’t even fight her own battle.
She’s the reason why I gave this book only 3.5 stars!Aside from my issue with Toby, I had nothing to complain.
Please don’t let me down, Toby!
Toby is a bit dark, the entire book is a bit dark and I somehow thought eventually it would get a little lighter….but it really doesn’t.Urban Fantasy….well I’m pretty much a fan of it and I’ve read a few different series now in this genre that are clearly UF and not PRN.
There is quite a bit going on and I think that there are some things that I’d only pick up the second time through when I could drop back and enjoy the language and characters a little more instead of picking up all the story.╰⊰✿ The Good Stuff ✿⊱╮ஐ – The writing is really well done.
ETA: I've continued reading this series and want to point out I gave books four and five considerably higher ratings.
The answers were found through a taste-test that could have happened 100 pages earlier, saving Toby some scars and me some boredom.McGuire’s foundation for the story intrigued me.
What began as a noir-ish escapade devolved into half-assed ideas and miles of blood-soaked bandages.The curse she’s under didn’t help matters.
I’m not eager to follow Toby through another muddle of unhappy coincidences.
3.5/ 4ishI really missed a good UF!I admit, it took me a bit to get into the story. But well, once I got there, I couldn't get out!I absolutely loved it! Loved the world it created and the characters, even the "case" was a damn interesting one (and that's not very easy to find).This series has a lot of potential, can't wait to get to the next one!
I swear, it was like a giant Xanax.30 minutes of the endless descriptions and the politics of every single fae creature will do that too.Plus, on top of the endless descriptions and explanations, October/Toby was weak as hell.
Seriously, there was one scene when she just needed to shoot the freaking gun that was in her hand to stop everything, but she hesitates and ends up getting someone else killed and herself even more injured- if that were possible.
He was interesting and hot, but there wasn't enough of him to keep me awake.All in all - good book if you have insomnia.
are bandied about and obviously if the very powerful people took care of their own shit and/or got other very powerful people to do so you wouldn't have much of a story, but as with all such things it becomes a little frustrating after a while.I also found the book very easily telegraphed, which doesn't have to be a bad thing, but since it revolved around a mystery that sort of took away any suspense.
There are insignificant things that mostly just make me do things like go "...He obviously doesn't hate you?!" at various intervals throughout the entire book.
*** 4 ***An impromptu buddy read with the UF loving BB&B Fae maniacs!!!This was fun.
This is very much an Urban Fantasy and it is full of multitude of Fae creatures.
Several times I stopped to research the mythology of different classification of Fae. I love getting this involved with a book:-)The main character, October "Toby" D.
I also loved and was a tiny bit creepers by the blood magic, but I found it fascinating!!!As a whole, I enjoyed this book and am planning on reading all the rest in the series!!!
I recommend it to all Urban Fantasy fans and wish all of you Happy Reading!!!
When she recovered from this (I'm careful with spoilers about this shocker), she was left with a lot less ties to the human world, to say the least.This book's pretty grim - a lot of bad things happen and good people die.
It's not written in the typical Urban Fantasy or fantasy tone, but more similar to a noirish/hard case mystery crime style.Despite the writing style being workable and the worldbuilding unique, Toby makes a great main character: she's smart but not unreasonably so; she's kind but not mushy and unrealistic; she's tough but average-tough, not that unrealistic stuff that's growing old in UF trends.
They're that well-crafted, that full of things that draw me into Toby's world and make me want to stay; I don't just want to know what happens next, I want to know how; I want to know what it's going to look and feel and taste like.
One thing that hooks me most in a book is world-building, and the Toby Daye series has that in spades.
I genuinely and highly recommend Rosemary and Rue to fans of urban fantasy, or murder mysteries, or P.I. novels, or worldbuilding, or complex characters, or folklore, or fairy tales, or Shakespeare, or British folk ballads, or just plain exciting and engrossing stories that are likely to keep you up half the night reading just one more page.
I ended up skimming in a lot of places.
The book went like this....Tobey doesn't want to do anything...but now she's accidentally caught up in some trouble...
I'd like this book better if she was good at some of these things, but she's not.
The best part of this book to me was the secondary characters, I found them much more intriguing.
The secondary characters made this book for me.
I'll most likely be reading book 2, as I wish to know more about the cat man and the rest of the secondary characters.
San Francisco is a beautiful setting for this story, this grand old city of hills, water, and mists.
When I read books this rich in authentic details, I have trouble doubting that Faerie is real afterall.It's not fair to compare, but I did feel like October Daye could hang in the Dresden club, with that feel of the ne'er do well, who gets wounded more than her share, much like the wizard from the series by Jim Butcher.
There's a place for Disney, but it doesn't satisfy like the real thing, tears and all.Rosemary and Rue was a good start to a series.
Even though I'm not usually a fan of Irish myth urban fantasy this one won me over, mainly on account of October. Fun!
Now not only is Toby forced back into fae society, she also has no choice but to step back into her old role as a private investigator.Many people I know who have read both Seanan Mcguire’s books and also her Mira Grant books have told me that the writing styles under each name could not be any more different.
The two Grant books I’ve read, namely Feed and Parasite both suffered from very hackneyed plotlines and stunted character development, but Toby Daye was a breath of fresh air with her very unique and natural voice, along with the author’s vision of fae politics and their interactions with the human world.
This was a really good read. I enjoyed the magical world and the blend with urban fantasy. I'm looking forward to continuing with this series.July 2018Even better on a reread. The first time I entered Toby Daye’s world, it took quite a few books to get a full handle on both her and the world she lives in. I decided to reread the series because I’m still waiting for the most recent one to come out on kindle and it was well worth it. If you haven’t tried this series yet, I recommend you do!
09/03/2016 Buddy read with Jessica, Robin, Choko, and Maria over at BB&B b/c we are craving UF, also Jessica loves this series and seeing that she is never wrong.... :-)   “By my word and at my command, you will investigate a murder, and you will force justice back into this kingdom. You will do this thing.” There was a long pause. I was starting to think the message had ended when she continued, softly, “Find out who did it, Toby, please. Make sure they don’t win. If you were ever my friend
I just wanted to devour this book, with its magical world of Fae, and changelings, and Cait Sidhes and rose goblins and Selkie’s and so many more fantastical creatures.
But then things go horribly wrong, and her whole life is upended by evil Fae, and for fourteen years she is lost to the world.
I loved learning more of this world as the story progressed, and going along with Toby on her journey of finding clues and solving them.
A must read for all who loves UF with an amazing and captivating world and characters.
But the thing is, not liking the MC has never stopped me from reading a book, continuing a series, or even enjoying the writing.
However, in spite of that, Seanan McGuire's got a good thing going here, such as the interesting modern-day San Francisco setting, an alternate world filled with otherworldly creatures, and a long-term story arc that's fitting for a long series.
I see so many people on my feed enjoying this series, reading all the way up to book #10, and I just wanna know...
Rating: a grudging 2* of fivePearl Ruled at 33%Nope. Not one eyeblink more. I cannot do this. Too much is too much and the rose goblin escapade in chapter 8 lasted about a week too long.This idea is fine, though the choice of San Francisco as the intersection point between humans and Faerie borders on OTT, and I guess this could still make a good TV show if they get the budget for the f/x, but oh HELL no on the bloviations of the book.
Reminds me a bit of the Tim Pratt books, where I enjoyed #1 but LOVE LOVED #2 on.SPOILER:The only thing that bugged me about this book was that the main character has been trapped in a fish pond for like, 12 years from the top of the book, and the whole time I'm waiting for her to go and find her family, husband and daughter, or at least have that be a big story point later in the book, exploring what happened to those she loved while she was condemned to a life as a fish.
The writing in this book is just so radically different and, honestly, kind of bad.
I don’t expect a whole fantasy world to get built in one chapter, but the rules of this fae world are neverending and incredibly difficult to follow.
I just started the second book in an attempt to give this series another chance and there’s still *more* world building being added.
I like it to feel like I just learn the world organically without having to be told every single thing (I do accept that stating the world rules outright via a sassy female protagonist is common in UF, but I’ve seen it done much better in other books).
So what would you like first?I suppose you've already seen some of the "good" news in that I went all the way to a 4 star rating.
A 4 can't be that far behind.This one held my interest, didn't fall into the things that have driven me away from so many "so called" Urban Fantasies lately and on the whole I'd say I enjoyed this book.
So many books I've had recommended or picked up on the strength of a synopsis as an Urban Fantasy have turned out to be PNR.
Mmmhhmm debating between 4 stars and 3 stars.
I liked it but I didn't really connect with Toby, and I was cursing her a few times for acting so dumbly.
But, I've heard good things about this series and that it's going to get better.
Often the first book in an UF series is the weakest so I'm not worried at all.
I'm super excited about this series.
I love everything Fae <3 I'm really interested in Tybalt.
(was it Tybalt??
Wtf was his name again??) Anyway, fae guy with cat eyes ????
Also, he hates/dislikes Toby ??
Very interesting..
Very interesting..
This one was a DNF @ 34%.This book had one of the best prologues I've read in a while.October "Toby" Daye, is following a suspect for a case in her PI firm, and she gets caught and turned into a freaking fish for fourteen years.
Fourteen Years A life lost.
He was also the first man I'd ever loved, and now that I was Home, I was starting to realize how much I'd missed him"
I'm not sorry to say that I'm not up to read about abusive relationships.
After working as a PI and having a case go terribly wrong, she disappears for 14 years, returning where this book begins - into the human world and trying to forget about the Fae.But the murder of one of the full blood Fae that she used to call a friend has her embroiled in a dangerous mystery and make into the world she has been trying to ignore.I like October.
I quite enjoyed the world building, and the other characters, and for a first book in a series I thought this was really promising.My only criticism, really, is that she talks to the reader a lot to describe the world and it can be repetitive rather than just letting it all unfold.I am intrigued enough to continue.3.5 stars
[4 Stars] Review to come soon, but I will say that I really enjoyed this one! Much of this book was spent world building and Toby pretty much introducing us to all the major fae players, but I didn't mind. I enjoyed seeing the worldbuilding, and it is cool that Toby is a changeling. I did have a couplenof problems with this, but overall they weren't big enough for me to give this anything less than 4 stars!
Re-read: November 2018 3.5 starsAlmost exactly a year after I last re-read this book, I came back to it. After reading my last review of Rosemary and Rue (see how it rhymes?!), I have to admit I have nothing to add to it. My thoughts during this re-read where same as before - Toby's love life is disastrous, her friends are shady and the book is pretty dark. To be honest, I don't even know why I always have this dark feeling after reading Toby Daye book, because there wasn't anything specificall
Just the overall tone was kind of grim, what with Toby living alone, isolated from everyone by her own choice.However, I think this book is worth more than 3 stars I gave it last time, so I threw in extra half star.
I still like Toby and her friends, but knowing what I know now after I read most of the series, I realize that some things about this book bothered me.First of all, Toby has a terrible taste in men in the first few books.
Despite her lowly Safeway job, as she tries to catch up with 14 years of societal progress, one of her powerful full-blooded faerie frenemies binds her once again—this woman (who knows that she will be killed) tasks October to avenge her murder using her investigative skills.There is copious use of one trope that really bugs me—that of the person who is absolutely sure that no one wants to hear from them or spend time with them because of something they have done.
I hope now that October has re-connected with friends and family, that I will feel less annoyed with her behaviour in book 2 and be able to completely enjoy the story.
