https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33954.The_Spook_Who_Sat_by_the_Door
I once read this book for class and fell head over hills for Greenlee's talent for summing up what it means to enact a revolution for change in the African-American community.
In our current atmosphere of #BlackLivesMatter, the need to understand the mechanisms of revolting and the tactics that should and should not be used are important.This book packs a punch in it's blunt use of racial slurs, violence, and intellect.
However, if you want to push yourself and your thoughts on the plight of African-Americans in America, you'll definitely need to give this book a try.I talk about it further in my 
This book should definitely be on your #LemonadeSyllabus/#RootsSyllabus.
The book isn't exactly homophobic, but it doesn't really grasp sexual orientation: Freeman is presented as such a skilled and respectful lover that the sex worker, although she's lesbian and in a relationship, lies to her partner to spend a weekend with him.
In a way, the built-in misogyny coupled with a self-destructive ideological commitment reminded me of another revolutionary fantasy, Edward Abbey's Monkey Wrench Gang.The book was published during the Vietnam War, following a wave of nations declaring independence around the world, and following the disastrous riots and political implosion of the Democratic party in 1968.
To boost them up, they come up with a query then expose on the CIA not having negro officers within their ranks and the CIA in turn decide to recruit a set of young men to go through(but make it hard for them NOT to pass it)and the games are on.
They truly expected NONE to pass but one young man by the name of Dan Freeman DOES pass it and even pass by those who considers themselves of the "black bourgeois" class since he himself is not.
the revolution will not be televised.
He reminded me immediately of Ferric Jagger of Norman Spinrad's the Iron Dream, and I could easily imagine an alternate dimension blurb for this book:"Let science fiction virtuoso Malcolm X transport you to a far-future Earth, where only Dan Freeman stands between the remnants of true black humanity and annihilation at the hands of the totally evil Whiteys and the mindless hordes they completely control." In the final analysis, and as action and violence escalated, "Spook" became indistinguishable from a million right-wing survivalist pulps I've read over the years.Yet Spook is better than most of those: it can be well written ("wall-to-wall drags with split-level minds, control color TV souls and credit-card hearts," "another black baby with no future in the land of milk and honey, replete with goodies in white plastic cases for god's own children with white plastic faces,") even though style is used only as a means of propaganda, never to be style itself.
It moves fast, it's got that pulp feel where you always know the color of the whiskey label and the size of the man's lapels.
For just a taste of the prose Drop those names: doctors I have known, lawyers, judges, businessmen, dentists, politicians, and Great Negro Leaders I have known.
Wall-to-wall drags with split-level minds, remote-control color TV soulds and credit-card hearts.Play who-do-you-know and who-have-you-screwed.
And it's got heart too, and friends on two sides of the wall, and you know when they start quoting Billy Holiday that it ain't going to end well, but it's true that God blesses the child who has his own...
The author paints a very real dividing line between the desire to be accepted in the social norms of America and the desire to embrace one's own cultural and racial background.
This story plays on the fears of upper class america and the idea that the urban and inner cities will rise up against economic limitations to rebel against the government.
This is relevant even today as we face the fear of a declining middle class.
Regardless of race this book reminds us all what society is like when it is harshly divided by the 'haves' and the 'have nots'.
Saw the movie years ago; this book does not disappoint. I'm halfway through + am thinking about how interesting it is in conversation with 'Django Unchained,' the current political climate, and the bad ass protagonist cannon. Can't wait to talk to someone about this book. Can't wait to start giving the book to folks as gifts, Can't wait to finish it.
Sam Greenlee's scope is amazing. I am still trying to figure out how he got this published in the 60's.
This is one of my favorite books. I read it at an impressionable age and in many ways tried to emulate the protagonist. Now I'm trying to emulate the author!
Back in the day, this book was a revelation to me.. it made me proud to be a black women.
It was one of the first books that climaxed at the end.
The closer I got to finishing the book, the more eager I was to find out what the end would be.
I believe that's what kept me reading, otherwise, I probably would've gotten tired of the book.
About half-way thru, I was really eager to finish the book.
It definitely was a good story and just REALLY made me think.
And to think, it was written in the 60's and much of what was stated, I believe, is still going on today.
I want to think it has happened and maybe the government hid it from us.
Fast paced and cool like a good pulp movie. Many of the dialogue exchanges between the main character and white characters in the book are especially painful to read, painful like nausea inducing and that's just how the main character feels as well we find out sometimes. The dialogue exchanges between him and the people he considers bourgeoisie blacks are similarly tense and disappointing/quietly upsetting. And the descriptions of police and state brutality against Black people are absolutely NO different than what you read about Ferguson the other day. Really makes you ask yourself some things.
Impotent black fantasy of a doomsday that simply cannot happen. Don't get me wrong; I love the book. I love its pacing, its sense of timing, of language. I identify with the sense of determination, with its attempt to find an answer and with its single-minded protagonist. I'm simply angry because this stands out, along with Chester Himes' Plan B, as a story of action to meet headlong a challenge and condition, in the midst of a reading public too apathetic to give a shit or too comfy in their condition to support any change which brings others up.
A blistering read. A black revolutionary joins the CIA and learns all about revolutions overseas, then quits and uses his knowledge to organize a street gang into a revolutionary cadre. When the Detroit ghetto rises up, the cadre attacks the National Guard, sends out organizers to other major cities to organize cadre there, and the Black revolution breaks out across the United States. Tragically, it is not a feminist book.
This book was recommended to me years ago but I decided recently that I would read it. I was not disappointed. I won't give a long drawn out review but I will say, those that are interested in the well being and seeing 'black' people progress as a whole will not be disappointed. Just imagine if every 'black' person read this book and took it to heart?
Fun read. Written in the 60s about an African-American guy who goes to work for the CIA and then uses what he learned.
LOVE IT! A must read!
Pretty awesome book. Better than I thought it would be. Again I have to read this again for class so will save my review until then. Can't wait to see the movie!
Love this book. It is a must read.
How is it possible that I did t read this book in the late 60s?
In fact, astonishingly enough, I think it's better that you don't feel like part of the story.
I usually don't like books with morally gray main characters and prefer them to be definitely good, so I think it's exceptionally impressive that I still liked Freeman.Overall, I'd recommend this book about the potential of black power to everyone, with the caveat that there are plenty of racial slurs.The end of the book left me frustrated (in the best way) because I desperately wanted to know what happened to Freemen & Co. But as they say God bless the children who have their own...
Billed on the paperback jacket as "the first black nationalist novel," this is a quick, engaging book for those interested in American culture, race, and urban affairs.
Dan Freeman, the titular "spook," comes from the ghettos of Chicago to become the first African-American CIA agent.
After a few years at the agency, he leaves to take a social service agency job back in Chicago and surreptitiously plan a revolutionary uprising against police brutality and white supremacy.
If that sounds like your thing, you may like this book (though the gender dynamics are retrograde throughout).
Also, certain parts of this book may have been the inspiration/template for aspects of Spike Lee's 2015 film CHIRAQ.
This is hard for me because most of my dislike simply comes from the copious use of racial epithets.
I understand the wording is crucial to the feel of this book but it made it hard for me and I constantly got tangled up in my personal feelings.
That aside, what a powerful work, detailing what happens when enough is enough.
I rooted for Dan and then scorned him by the next page.
I was forced to check my biases throughout this book and search for myself and thoughts in these characters.
Way better than the movieAfter hearing about the book and the movie based on the book from Tariq Nasheed, I first saw the movie and then decided to download the book.
A lot of the things in the book , I adapted to my own life.
Such as waking up early in the morning, reading a book or articles about notable figures, events or developing an assortment of new skills that could help me currently or in the near future.I won't spoil the ending of both the movie or the book.
But I will say they both will satisfy you.Since the character Freemen was astute in the martial arts was I.
I'm considering retraining in it sometime soon.
For years I have heard of the 1973 movie, which had spotty distribution and little or no video release.
However, the source novel should be on that shelf with the best of Richard Condon.
Dan Freeman (as symbolic a name as you're likely to find) is an angry but brilliant black man.
Little do they realize the depth of Freeman's schemeing.
By turns funny and horrifying, the novel posits what would happen if the oppressed had the organization to plan and execute a full-scale revolution.
If Ross Thomas were black and ghettoized, this is the book he would have written.
Classic style. Classic style. Open writing, like moving along on a timely train and watching the stops roll past without a hitch. Gives enough detail but not enough to hamper the imagination. This is good because the reader imagination is tactfully called on to fill some of the welcoming spaces.
Gives me George Orwell-ian vibes! This book gave me the same feeling I got when I reread Orwell's 1984, in the sense that I feel like these books all but predicted the future, or maybe it's simply that nothing in "new" and everything is cyclic and we are back in a place that we've already been but it was a great read and a unique concept.
Rad politics in a lot of ways, though the gender trouble is substantial.
The blueprint for revolution. Should be required reading for all people of African descent.
