https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/640181.The_Warlock_in_Spite_of_Himself
The book starts off as typical sci-fi/fantasy fodder: An undercover agent, Rodney Gallowglass, discovers an entire planet of earth-descended espers who cut off communications with their home planet centuries before.
By the time Rodney finds them they've structured their civilization based on a medievel monarchy.
Rodney's use of technology gets him branded as a wizard and he finds himself balanced between the monarchy and a large group of "witches" and "wizards" who are, in actuality, regular people with telekinetic, teleportation and mind-reading abilities.But then it gets interesting because Rodney finds himself battling to protect a monarchy that is slowly blossoming into a democracy against two factions, both from the future.
The reason I liked this book was because 1.) Rod Gallowglass is a smartass.
July2014: Rereading this for the first time in a lot of years with the Sci-fi and Heroic Fantasy group.https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...I'm hoping it won't disappoint since it is an old favorite.It's fast moving & a lot of fun even today & knowing what was coming.
Some of the ideas of SF are a bit dated, but I found the observation on literacy & the spread of knowledge interesting, especially in light of today's Internet.These are 2 paragraphs from very early in the book.
It should be noted that the first email was sent about the time this book was originally published in 1969.-Databases so efficient that no one memorizes facts.
I have no doubt, though, that it will be a fun and comfortable read for readers who originally encountered it and loved it a few decades ago, for readers who get nostalgic about old-fashioned science fiction, or for readers who occasionally (or always) enjoy a light, shallow, slightly silly adventure story.The audio version of The Warlock in Spite of Himself was produced by Wild Voices and performed by a full cast.
If you decide to read The Warlock in Spite of Himself, I suggest that you read the paperback or Kindle version.ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.
Honestly, this book may constitute a 'guilty pleasure' type thing for me.
The premise is really great - a scifi story that reads like fantasy, where the magic is psychic and the culture is basically a giant Renaissance festival made a lost planetary colony.
And I have a weakness for puns, you see, and he clearly loves puns.But why guilty?
There is an entire page where the protagonist, Rod, explain the game of cricket to his erstwhile servant, Tom. Why does he do this?
So that Stasheff can then have Rod make the pun "no rest for the wicket".Yeah.
In this future, communications have improved to the point where pure democracy is possible, with every human having an equal say in all aspects of the government.
Gallowglass lands on a planet that split off from the main human culture centuries before, having deliberately cut itself off from technology to the point of total ignorance of their past history.
He lands in the middle of a volatile political situation with three warring factions supporting absolute monarchy, warlordism, and totalitarian communism (though a weak straw man only) respectively.
Gallowglass suspects off-world influence, given the sophistication of some of the political dogma (spoilers, duh, he's right).
This was the first book that I read by Christopher Stasheff.
At the time, being twelve-ish years old, I knew practically nothing about any form of government other than republican (representative) democracy and monarchy.
I learned a lot about my own government and other forms of government by reading this.Christopher Stasheff seems to be on a quest to educate through entertainment.
(In fact, in a number of his other books he has characters that do exactly that.) It's a fun read, with an epileptic robot, a psionic population, and a protagonist who is determined to help a recently rediscovered monarchistic world become a democracy.
I had first come across Christopher Stasheff years ago with his Rogue Wizard books.
The combination of sci-fi, fantasy and politics intrigued me and though the books weren't masterpieces by any stretch of the imagination they were good reads which were slightly educational.
This is the first book Stasheff wrote and the progenitor of the Rogue Wizard books so when I wanted to reread those books I decided to go back a little further and start at the very beginning.While I didn't enjoy this as much as I did the later books I kept in mind that this was written well before them and before he had hit his stride.
It was still enjoyable and a good quick read and good to see where it all began.
A classic sf fantasy tale of a man from an advanced technological universe who comes to a planet where strange properties can be used to create magic, and becomes a powerful warlock to maintain peace.
Druhé čtení po více než dvaceti letech. Čtyři hvězdičky z nostalgie.
I read this book in high school and couldn't stop till I got through the whole series. Now I love to go to the RenFair every February and it always makes me think of Rod Gallowglass.
I read this book first when I was much younger and found it to be a wonderful read.
Or at least that was what my memory told me.
After reading it again, I am not sure that wonderful would be the word I would use for the description, but I did enjoy it a great deal.
It was a fun read, enjoyable, easy to work through and complex enough in the plot to hold interest start to finish.
I am looking forward to re-reading the rest of the series to see if it holds up as well as this one did to my memories.
I refer anyone doubting this to the title of Part 1 of this novel: "A Visit to a Small Plantagent." The number of puns in this book is massive, as well as great fun centered around the use of acronyms.It is the story of an agent of SCENT (The Society for the Conversion of Extra-Terrestrial Nascent Totalitarianisms), Rodney d'Armand who has come to the planet Gramarye to help along the cause of democracy.
Because of his own advanced hardware, the locals all think he is a warlock and how is he to argue, especially when he falls in love with a most beguiling witch?This is a fun romp from beginning to end and Stasheff does not allow his generous sense of humor to get in the way of the story.
3.5 starsI loved the concept of this story but I did have some issues with the execution.
(view spoiler)[Rod's struggles with falling in love was my main grouse.
I never like "insta-love" so the fact that he fancied himself in love with not one but two people after their respective first encounters was highly annoying to me.
Similarly Gwendolyn's desperate devotion didn't sit well.
Surely the most powerful witch could have a better storyline.
(hide spoiler)] However, for the most part I quite liked the characters (except for Catherine).
I particularly loved Fess!
This has been one of my favorite books since I first read it. I immediately fell in love with Stasheff's unique and quirky writing style. The humour is clever and subtle and you'll find romance, politics and a study of fundamental human nature all wrapped in an entertaining science-fiction fantasy tale.
Story that's hung on to its amusement value over the years. An odd mixture of science fiction (spaceships, Ray guns, robots and time travel) with fantasy (witches, gnomes, elves, banshees.) A fast-moving plot keeps things simple in the odd environment of a feudal society being tugged between differing galactic organizations and its own internal political struggles.
I remember reading the first 2 or 3 books in this series as a teen-ager. I remember liking the first one but apparently the conceit palled by book 3 (or was it book 2?).
A pretty good portal quest fantasy; nothing to get too excited about.
Or at least I think I did, back when I was still riding my mastadon to school.I need to reread this one.
I was about to give it one star for being obnoxiously sexist, but then saw the date of first publication. The book is well-written but omg hooray for social progress!
This entire series is one I will love forever. Read originally in my teens, I started re-reading it a few years ago, and it stood the test of time.
Just re-read this; still excellent. Fantasy meets Science Fiction. A little political intrigue, romance, and a little bawdy.
Celkom zabavne citanie. Ano je to stare, ale ako zabavny mix fantasy a s/f to vobec nie je zle :).
Help comes from computer Fess inside iron horse, Big Tom, elf King dwarf Brom, ghosts, and most powerful witch Gwendylon, Rod's lover "flaming hair and emerald eyes" p 185.
Diplomatic skills manipulate others - silly teens in love, Cath and Tuan, and advisers, stereotype big-head on wizened body brainiacs (view spoiler)[with future time-travel machine and tech (hide spoiler)].
(view spoiler)[ Why is Big Tom so physically different from fellow advisers who want to prevent telepathic witches whose long-range communication abilities will help democracy?
Big Tom lays geas, Brom offers home, finally Gwen warns enemies may come again.
Read this when if first came out, so my star rating reflects what I thought at that time, place and age.
That being said, I enjoyed it enough when it came out to do a rare thing and buy the next 2 in the series - however, I did lose interest around number 5 or so.Find a copy and read it, fun story and reasonably good writing - you may not find anything 'new' in it, but just remember it was one of the first of it's type back in the day!
What I mean is that the story has a background world that is given enough form to allow for extrapolation, elements that work within the plot for both a Fantasy and Science Fiction genre, and several characters that I adore because they are realistic to the time period it was written within and the world it is about while still making sense here on Earth if a person will consider the differences and not try to cram it into OUR world's view alone.This world is with a medieval Fantasy belief system nestled with a Science Fiction technology that is seen as "Magic".
The blend of sci-if and fantasy was particularly enjoyable, as witches and elves and other such things are expertly explained by an increasingly frustrated Rod in a scientific way.Fess, Rod's trusty ship computer/robot horse, could have been a terrible deus ex machina device, but because of the ingenious inclusion of his epilepsy, this is avoided and so tension is still very much present when needed.I really enjoyed the world that Stasheff created, both in the large and small scale.
He could have been quite an infuriating character, especially with his political worthiness, but somehow he seemed to have just enough flaws to make him likeable, such as his obsession with the Dream, his wistfulness and his short fuse.All in all, a very enjoyable read.
Rodney d'Armand's is a SCENT agent, whose job is to rediscover lost colonies and prepare them for re-entry into the confederation of worlds.
His latest mission has taken him to the land of Gramarye, and soon realises that he has found the planet settled that was by a group that wanted to recreated Renaissance European society.
Sounds just like the SCA to me!
I like the overall plot of a secret agent arriving on a medieval-esque planet to sow the seeds of democracy, discovering that there are other forces trying to turn it into a dictatorship or a communist utopia.
The main character, Rod Gallowglass, is generally likable, but perhaps less so than his epileptic robot/horse, who has a sort of dry humour.
I like how different forces are constantly plotting against each other and forming alliances at need.
Rod Gallowglass seems almost invincible, even though he has arrived on a world and at a time that are not his own.
The Warlock in Spite of Himself, by Christopher Stasheff, is an incredible story about Rod "Gallowglass," a scientific explorer that finds a new world.
There is real magic on this planet, and they believe Rod is a warlock, but he only uses science.
This is a great story about lies, the truth, and learning to believe.This book's theme is all about finding truth, lies, and some of the things that lie in between.
For instance, the people on this planet believe that Rod is a powerful warlock, but he is not.
Even though it gets confusing, after rereading, it is a great book.
This book has been sitting on my shelf for several years and I was surprised to find that I hadn't read it after all.It's a nice SF/Fantasy "romp" - a direct application of Clarke's Third Law executed in a relatively original fashion, although, being forty years old, it perhaps doesn't feel quite so original now.I enjoyed the clarity of his writing, which has a good visual style, and the characters were generally distinctive and well defined.
Whilst it was refreshing not to have undiluted libertarianism presented as being the only logical position (cf.
