https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7234875-the-little-stranger
Whatever our modern feelings of distate for a formal class system may be, the author makes us feel how devastating the loss of it was for those at the top, and how it left them adrift, not only physically due to lack of servants, but ethically as well: for if they are not, as Mrs. Ayres describes, "an example" of all that is good for those below them, what purpose do they serve?Another lingering remnant of that way of life that plays an important role in the story is the idea that what you can achieve is - at least partially - determined by who your parents were in local society.
sigh. i tried to read this slowly and still finished it in two days. i suck. but i can't help it - she writes so well, and her stories are so damn compelling; the pages virtually turn themselves. but sorry, ladies, no lesbians this time. i never thought i would see the day. what else is sarah waters for, if not lesbian love?? evidently, dickensian ghost stories in postwar settings... ooooorrrr iiiiisss iiiitttt?come to my blog!
Departing from her preferred 19th century context, as she did in her last book The Night Watch, Sarah Waters sets her latest novel in post-World War II Warwickshire and tries her hand at an Old Dark House, Haunted-Or-Is-It story in the Jamesian tradition of subtle, ambiguous psychological chillers (The Turn of the Screw, The Beast In the Jungle.
But while James intuitively understood that the atmosphere of such tales depends on sustaining the unsettling mood, and so they’re best realized – and indeed intensified - by the concentrated form of a novella or short story, Waters’ book trudges on for more than 450 pages, grinding all the tension and eeriness out of her narrative as it inches glacially forward like a literary Bataan Death March.
Hundreds Hall is said to be haunted and as the months pass by it becomes more and more confusing to tell whether the effect of the house on the people living in it is due to it being haunted or the steady deterioration of the estate and the status of the people who inhabit it in a world changing around them.
There was one thing that annoyed me though was Dr.Faraday's obsession with the Ayres and his desperation to be friends with them.
It was really well done though and his obsession with the estate really just added to the whole creepy feeling surrounding it.
This review is going to be like one of those fridge poetry thingymabobs because I'm tired and coherency isn't a top priority of mine right now.Here are some words and phrases that came to my mind after finishing this book, in no particular order.Atmospheric | Subtle| DON'T LOOK THROUGH THE KEYHOLE!
| The TV adaptation of this that is inevitably going to be shown at Christmas on the BBC is going to be as terrifying/cracked out/what the hell is going on?-esque as 'Whistle and I'll Come To You'.
Looks like I'm going to have to write that book.
Any reader of Fingersmith will know how Sarah Waters drags the old tricks of ancient fiction out of retirement and makes them dance for us again.
There it was Dickens and Wilkie Collins; here its Henry James and his Turn of the Screw, The Fall of the House of Usher, and any number of novels and movies with huge crumbling stately homes at their centre.
Lightly and effortlessly the political-cultural background weaves into the tale, which is set in 1947, as the radical Labour government steams ahead with such socialist solutions as the National Health Service, and the upper classes, personified by the blighted Ayreses, crumble and visibly wither.
Like all huge old houses, or castles.
Once a splendid home that was renowned throughout the district of Warwickshire, Hundreds Hall now stands in a state of ruination, due to the effects of World War II and the Ayres’s declining family fortune.
The characters are well-drawn, including the dignified Mrs. Ayres, her surly son Roderick who returned from the war with his share of battle wounds, her slightly awkward yet intelligent daughter Caroline, and the ingratiating family doctor, Faraday.
From the time he first set eyes on Hundreds Hall as a child, Dr. Faraday has had a peculiar fascination with both the house as well as its inhabitants.
The one thing I’ve learned from reading my first two Sarah Waters novels (Tipping the Velvet and The Paying Guests) is the value of patience.
The Little Stranger is a bit of a departure for Waters in that she plays things straight.
The story is set in motion when Dr. Faraday is summoned to Hundreds Hall due to the illness of Betty, one of the few remaining servants.
Part of the problem is that Waters is clearly more interested in her sideshows than in the central mystery of the haunting of Hundreds Hall.
3.75 Stars → I've had THE LITTLE STRANGER on my wish list for years, so I decided to use an Audible credit and listen to it in October.
That said, I also thought it was a bit too long and drawn out, and the ending doesn't wrap up with a tidy bow.
Set in the late 1940s, this book centers around an English physician's relationship with a down-on-its-luck aristocratic family and their crumbling ancestral home called Hundreds Hall.
Like I mentioned before, there's no neat and tidy ending where everything is explained, which is a bit frustrating.
I love most of Waters' books.
I loved Tipping the Velvet and Affinity was a great ghost story, but this book was like her other book Night Watch-long, drawn-out and left me wondering what the point was.
The book ends with no real wrapping up of any details-though you are left with this feeling that the author is trying to be clever and point the finger many different ways.
It took way to long to try and figure that out.
I wish Waters would go back to writing about the Victorian time period.
The trusted family doctor relates the tale as his life becomes closely interwoven with that of the family and gets a front row seat in time to watch their collective mental health unravel faster than a ball of wool with a platoon of kittens at one end.Many have rightly asserted that this is neither full on ghost story or an assessment of the plight of the landed gentry in the wake of the war however that doesn't detract from the overall charm of the story and as always Sarah Waters has produced a well written page turner.
An eerie,engrossing haunted house tale. The plot pulls you in and holds you firmly in it's grip. A deep,disturbing, gothic ghost story of the highest order. Subtle and poignant. I could not put it down!
In "The Little Stranger", we get to follow one doctor and one family living in Hundreds Hall.
The whole story is set around these characters as their stories are entwined and their destinies develop in macabre directions.
The first part of the book is very much about the characters, whereas the second part is more about the haunted happenings going on at Hundreds Hall.
However, while this might seem like a ghost story, I believe it's more about England in the 1900s and how classes were split and developed in different directions.
That's when the doctor appears in their lives, and it's from his perspective we get this story.
The Little Stranger by Sarah Waters is a book I picked up from the library.
I accidentally gave it a four star with my fat fingers when I wrote "rtc".
It really is a 3 star to me.
It took a third of the book before anything weird happens.
Then just when comes start getting strange, the book lags down....ugh.
It does start getting creepy but I really didn't care if something killed them all off, maybe I cared about the servant girl.
I am not cruel, these characters were not fleshed out enough to care.
This was an audible book and the narration was fair.
Meanwhile, here the family sat, still playing gaily at gentry life, with the chipped stucco on their walls, and their Turkey carpets worn to the weave, and their riveted china..."The Ayers family consists of the middle-aged widow, Mrs Ayers, her 27-year old daughter, Caroline, who has resigned herself to a life as a spinster and a 24-year old son, Roderick, who is now the reluctant owner of Hundreds Hall.As Dr. Faraday becomes more closely acquainted with the family, he finds out that there are supposedly strange happenings in the house.
Like I said, The Little Stranger is completely different from any other Sarah Waters books.
I know some of you out there know what I'm feeling.I'm not going to get into the plot too much...there's a huge old estate falling into disrepair in post-war England.
(I hope this makes sense to you.) This tale had the feel of M.R. James to it, but there's no doubt in my mind-James did it better and in far less words.Overall, I enjoyed this tale-be it of a haunted house, a psychological horror story, or a commentary on society, or all of the above.
Recommended for patient fans of haunted house stories.
One of the more enjoyable aspects of Sarah Waters' slow paced (occasionally excruciatingly so) ghost novel, "The Little Stranger," is how subtle and contemplative its frights are, rather than being necessarily immediate or shocking.
The ending is cleverly done – and softly done – so much so that to hint at it might ruin the question Waters finally poses; a frustrating notion since the slower tone and pace of the novel, combined with readers' preexisting expectations for what makes a good "ghost story," may be off-putting to some.
Moments come in "The Little Stranger" when the reader wonders when the novel will resemble the shock dramas he might see in a film.
Video review will be up later today!
I finally read a book by Sarah Waters and, even though this book had its faults, I’m so glad I did!What I thought was going to be a pretty standard classic ghost story actually turned out to be more of a study of post-war Britain that really delves into the complexities of the downfall of a whole class system (oh, and yeah, there’s a ghost).
If it had been cut by 100-150 pages (shortening some of the dialogue and descriptions), this would’ve easily been a a 5 star read for me, because despite its lengths I pretty much enjoyed everything else about it.
I was too busy wanting this book to be something that it wasn't, that when I realized my frustration at the narrator was Water's intent and plot strategy, I couldn't get passed my disappointment to fully enjoy what she created.
I have read similar books, which I won't mention here for fear of ruining them with the comparison, but this too may have played into my reading/opinion/frustration at The Little Stranger.
I wouldn't go out of my way to recommend this book, but if you want to read a slightly chilling tale on a cold, gray, day you could do worse.
Sarah Waters' The Little Stranger was an uncomfortable book to read.
That was the whole point of this book, his views of what he's owed and placements in life, and taking everything he said at face value would rob the story of its true creepiness.
I could care less about the "big house" way of life coming to an end.
It was about a dick thinking he was owed, every time.
I'd rather not read a whole book rationalizing shit because of a goddamned house.
It was too hard to read between the lines of Faraday's mind to reach anything else.
Downton Abbey meets The Shining in a house worthy of Daphne du Maurier. A creepy, atmospheric, and puzzling ghost story. Or is it?
As much as I enjoyed Waters' writing, I felt the pacing at times was excruciatingly slow.
I am glad I decided to listen to the audio version of this novel, because, truth be told, I don't think I have enough stamina for such a slow-moving, atmosphere- rather than plot-oriented story.
The audio allowed me to keep up with the narration easily (in reality, not much happens in this novel), while not missing out on much during the times I found my mind drifting away from the story.
It is amazing how different The Little Stranger is from Sarah Waters's debut novel.
The narrator Dr Faraday is a doctor who tends to the residents of the Big House, the Hundreds, the Ayres family; mother, daughter and son.
It is a very English novel in its treatment of class, respectability and the inability of a certain section of the landed gentry to maintain their impossibly large and crumbling houses.
The ghost part of the story seems to be something stalking the residents of the house; possibly the ghost of a dead child, but it feels more like the dead hand of a lost Edwardian and 1920s past forever gone.
between this and The Upstairs Room i think i've discovered that the very specific genre of "gothic/horror mystery in which this house may or may not be haunted because there's some strange psychological miasma hovering around" isn't precisely my thing
A stream of stubborn realism runs alongside the supernatural elements and so while it is a ghost story if you wish it to be, it doesn't have to be if you don't.I think it is worth mentioning the characters in the novel as they are brilliantly formed and as essentially one of the main characters is not a human but Hundreds Hall.
The strongest of the family, and the main connection with Dr Faraday, the narrator - we as readers probably knew her best and yet there was a feeling that at the end of the novel that we might not have known her at all.
My main problem with this book was that I went into it thinking it was going to be another kind of story.
My other problem is that the only other Sarah Waters book I’ve read is Fingersmith, which features approximately a thousand plot twists.
So as I read The Little Stranger, I keep waiting breathlessly for The Twist, only to be deeply let down.
It’s definitely suspenseful, and Waters keeps you guessing until the end about the exact nature of what’s going on at Hundreds Hall, but if you go into this expecting the kind of twists and revelations we got in Fingersmith, you’re going to be disappointed.
I don't know why I didn't write a review of this when I read it, presumably because I didn't have time - I'll have to rectify this at some point, but would have to read the book in full again in order to do it justice.
I can say that I thought it was absolutely wonderful - an automatic addition to my all-time favourites list; I'd give it six stars if I could.
In my eyes The Little Stranger is an outstanding book with one of the most brilliant, subtle, yet absolutely revelatory endings I have ever read.
A story of ghosts or madness? If ghosts, ghost or poltergeist?If the latter, caused by whom?If madness, whose?Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
I read other reviews that praised the depth of the characters, but I never felt engaged enough to agree. The premise was good, the details were lovely, but the story itself didn't seem fully realized and I didn't miss the characters when I closed the book. A decent read.
