https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36320.Tales_of_the_Cthulhu_Mythos
Iä! Iä! Cthulhu Fhtagn!…but not forever: If the Universal Church of the Congregation of His Most Cosmically Cyclopean and Magisterial Mightiness, the Impenitent, Indomitable and Indefatigable Cthulhu (aka He With Whom One Does Not Fuck) ever designates a single tome as its bible, then this collection will surely be the one chosen as its most revered scripture*. This is the Rolls Royce of mythos anthologies with nary so much as a single turd in the sacred punchbowl.* I must qualify this statement
Plus a veritable who's who of the best talent to ever scratch pen across parchment in the name of "The Mountain That Walks," including Henry Kuttner, Fritz Leiber, Stephen King, Karl Edward Wagner, Philip Jose Farmer, Colin Wilson, Ramsey Campbell, Joanna Russ, Richard A Lupoff and Brian Lumley.
However, this one makes the honor role because it is a masterful homage and gushing love letter to all of the great mythos stories that came before it.
From "The Call of Cthulhu" to “The Mountains of Madness” to "The Dunwich Horror" to "Dagon" to "The Shadow Over Innsmouth"...to handful of non-Lovecraft stories (several of which are in this collection).
(This story also has somewhat more bad language than any of the others, which either follow Lovecraft in having none or have very little -- though even Farmer's selection doesn't have much.)Despite a passing reference to the Necronomicon, Russ' "My Boat" is actually not a Cthulhu Mythos story as such; it's Lovecraftian, but its inspiration comes from the fantasy side of his work (The Dream Quest of Unknown Kadath is also mentioned, and plays a role in the plot).
Contiene quasi tutti i suoi racconti migliori (almeno secondo me) che sono legati non ‘da un’ tema ma ‘dal’ tema per eccellenza del solitario di Providence, l’aspetto esteriore poi: tra copertina, pagine dal filo nero, illustrazioni grottesche… lo trovo particolarmente suggestivo.
L’unica pecca, se così la si vuole chiamare, dell’opera è che essendo appunto composta da svariati lavori non tutti sono al top (ecco perché il mio voto finale è stato di 4 stelle e non 5).
Personalmente lo ritengo il migliore nel suo campo e sono abbastanza convinto che altri la pensino come me, molti altri.
Glupo mi je što ima milion izdanja njegovih priča , pa se jedva i snadjoh.
Ovdje se nalaze 2 završene priče od Lovecrafta i jedna nedovršena (The Bell in the Tower)koju je Lin Carter završio .
Call of Cthulhu mi se užasno svidio , Dagon je tak-tak , ali je čitko , a The Bell in the Tower je poprilično zanimljiva.
Nisu me "dirnule" .Ocjene pojedinih priča:H.
P. Lovecraft - Call of Cthulhu 4*Robert E.
P. Lovecraft,Lin Carter - The Bell in the Tower 3.5*D.
P. Lovecraft - Dagon 3*Christian von Aster - A portrait of Torquemada 1* (zaspao sam koliko je dobra bila)
I can't give it more than three stars because the other tales are derivative, but if you've read all of Lovecraft and you want to read stuff he inspired by mostly competent horror authors, this is a great book.
The stories are hit-or-miss, but I should point out that a lot of them are from the 1930's and written by Lovecraft's friends, so they have some historical relevance to the general Lovecraftian mythos.
(Only two or three stories are by Lovecraft.
If you want to read him, go buy a Lovecraft-only book and do it properly, or listen to the radio plays)
4.3/5Ojalá los siguientes libros que lea en el año sean igual de buenos que este.
This is a good book to have to see some very important Mythos tales penned by HPL's friends and contemporaries, which add a lot to the Mythos. There are also some Lovecraft-inspired stories that were written later, after HPL's death. Some of the stories are what I'd consider "required reading" for HPL fans just as much as the original HPL stories. Not all of these stories are winners, however. For example: I understand August Derleth's importance in getting HPL widely recognized, but that doesn't change the fact that his Mythos stories are punishingly awful.
I honestly don't think it's because I grew up in an era where horror and violence are pretty freely shown in movies and on TV, and therefore Lovecraft's stories don't have as much of an impact.
This anthology started out brilliantly, with the iconic Call of Cthulhu, and other stories by writer's in Lovecraft's circle.
I think that Bloch's The Shadow from the Steeple, a continuation of Lovecraft's Haunter of the Dark, was my favorite story.However, I found some of the newer entries in this Mythos to be a bit out of step with the original feel of Lovecraft's writings.
A lot of fun stories, but they have the pace and subtlety of pulp.
The two Lovecraft stories, on the other hand, are masterful, and the stark contrast between HP and his imitators shows why Lovecraft, in his sweeping imagination and incredible technical skill, has become the cultural touchstone that he is.If you're interested in Lovecraft's influence beyond simple engrossing entertainment value, you may find this collection more interesting.
P. Lovecraft, Clark Ashton Smith, and other greats, as well as genre authors who are not traditionally Cthulhuians (Fritz Leiber, Biran Lumley, Stephen King, et.c.).
The stories vary in their quality and style from the excellent, classic, Victorianesque prose of the greats, to more free-form styles of contemporary authors.
I tend to prefer the former style, but some of my favorite stories also come from the more current authors.
Some of my favorites were: "The Return of the Sorcerer" by Clark Ashton Smith, "The Shambler From the Stars" by Robert Bloch, and "Sticks" by Karl Edward Wagner, but none of the stories were too horrible to read (exept in the way intended).
Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn
The Necronomicon makes its presence known in a superb piece of old-fashioned pulp which is even better than the Lovecraft tale that preceded it.Smith is back for UBBO-SATHLA, this time about an occultist who comes into possession of a weird gemstone.
It's a perfect combination of detective fiction and Cthulhu lore.Just when you thought it couldn't get any better, Bloch's NOTEBOOK FOUND IN A DESERTED HOUSE makes for excellent reading.
The events are predictable, but the idea of having a 12-year-old narrator makes for a fresh and involving read, unique among Cthulhu fiction.
Era da un po' che mi ero proposto di leggere qualcosa di Lovecraft, e quando ho trovato questo tomo, con una copertina bellissima e il bordo delle pagine nero, non ho potuto resistere.
Al di là dell'aspetto estetico di questa edizione, sono rimasto molto soddisfatto dalla lettura di questo libro, che contiene diversi racconti e romanzi brevi appartenenti al "ciclo di Cthulhu".
Come accade sempre quando si legge una raccolta come questa, alcuni dei racconti mi sono piaciuti più di altri.
I miei tre preferiti: Il richiamo di Cthulhu, Il caso di Charles Dexter Ward e Il colore venuto dallo spazio.
Here we have just the right mix of modern authors as well as Lovecraft's "Mythos" peers collected into one solid volume. The Hounds of Tindalos, The Black Stone, The Return of the Sorcerer, and Jerusalem's Lot are all stand out stories and give a great primer to people that not only want to see what is out there (without Lovecraft's fingers in their pies) in regard to the Mythos, but what can easily be seen as stand-alone stories in their own right.
This book as a whole was a bit disappointing because so few of the stories contribute to or even draw on the Cthulhu Mythos. “Raising with Surtsey”, “The Shadow from the Steeple”, and “The Hounds of Tindalos” are notable exceptions. As are the two Lovecraft stories, obviously. But many of the stories seem more like homages to HP Lovecraft by admiring authors— which is fine— but don’t result in great cosmic horror. But, the book is worthwhile for gathering the above stories as well as “Sticks”, and Stephen King’s masterpiece of short horror fiction “Jerusalem’s Lot”.
It didn't describe anything particularly gruesome until the end, and yet it did a fantastic job of filling the reader with unease at the quiet solitude of the town of Jerusalem's Lot.Sticks - This one started off with a bang by giving the main character a terrifying experience, but then it followed the rest of his life as that experience changed him.
Many of them tried to use the same formula as "The Call of Cthulhu" which was that an investigator begins discovering something but then the horror gets too great and they end up dieing.
Arranged in rough chronological order from the late 1920s to the late 1970s, Tales of the Cthulhu Mythos includes a pair of Lovecraft’s stories to “set the scene,” including my favorite tale, "The Call of Cthulhu" itself.
The rest of the stories can be fun but none, with the possible exceptions of Joanna Russ’ "My Boat" and Karl Wagner’s "Sticks," really stand alone outside of "Mythos tales." Only Derleth’s tales were actually boring, though.
It is interesting to see the progression of Lovecraft’s concepts and creations, the “Cthulhu Mythos,” as coined by Derleth, into the horror/fantasy/sci-fi genres, through the 20th century.
La palabra que mas aprendí en este libro fue "omnioso" y es así como concluyen esta selección de la etapa de Mitos de Cthulhu de Lovecraft.
Todo queda en historias aisladas de humanos que se enfrentan a lo indescriptible.Podría creer que hace casi un siglo esto daría miedo, hoy con tanta capa de raciocinio en el mundo estos mitos parecen estar cubiertos por una niebla de incredulidad, y es por ello que son tan geniales y auténticos, abogan a los miedos primigenios del ser humano y es lo que les da veracidad y vigencia.Si tuviera que elegir un favorito sería "La Sombra sobre Innsmouth", ese viaje a la decadente ciudad con toda la incertidumbre de ir descubriendo un misterio mas que evidente y con ese giro final que si bien es cliché (hoy en día) correspondería a una atracción natural a los orígenes de uno mismo y nuestra naturaleza monstruosa."The only way to keep the monsters at bay is to embrace them..tightly".
H.P.- Lovecraft.
Took me weeks to finish this book. And I really wanted to read it. Cthulhu is fundamental, and every time I read Call of Cthulhu I want to read Terry Pratchett's Jingo. And I think about Buffy. And Hellboy. And Ozzy. And Girl Genius. And Sandman. And Merciful Fate. And Darkover. And The Eternals. And Metallica. [And I could go on]. But all of the overt and unconscious racism and sexism makes it tough going.  There’s a lot of good writing here. Not just Lovecraft, but Fritz Leiber! Stephen King!
Took me weeks to finish this book.
And I really wanted to read it.
Cthulhu is fundamental, and every time I read Call of Cthulhu I want to read Terry Pratchett's Jingo.
But all of the overt and unconscious racism and sexism makes it tough going.
But reading this excellent compilation makes me realize that unmitigated horror just doesn’t hold my attention.
But horror unmitigated by humor and/or radical feminist agenda just doesn’t hold my attention.
HPL put his thumb on the terror that lurks just past what we can see.
But it’s the terrors I can see that worry me.
An mixed bag of short stories, two by H.P Lovecraft (including the classic, The Call Of The Cthulhu), and the others are by authors who have been influenced by him.
All of the tales are set in the Cthulhu world of weirdness or reference certain characters or books that Lovecraft created.
Some of the stories are really weird and creepy, a couple were just painfully dull to get through and a few had a lot of racist/sexist references which annoyed me (but I can understand the times in which they were written originally - most of these are from the 1920s onwards so its to be expected to some degree).
I'm happy that I finally had a chance to read the original Lovecraft Call of Cthulhu.
I'm not sure how I felt about how self-referential the ancillary authors were to the writing of others perpetuating the Cthulhu mythos as though it were a real, academic, historical field.
The stories that were stand alones (King's Jerusalem's Lot, for example - referenced a book that came up multiple times in other stories, but stood on its own).Perhaps I'll read a collection of just Lovecraft tales at some point, but for now, I'm sufficiently satisfied with this collection as an introduction to the Thing That Should Not Be to leave the universe it resides in well enough alone for the time being.
If nothing else, this book taught me that I am apparently not a fan of Lovcraftian fiction.
Sure, "The Call of Cthulhu" is a fun read, and certainly a classic in the sci-fi pantheon, but the slew of imitations that this book collects from Lovecraft's contemporaries and correspondents were cookie-cutter boring.
Scientist/writer/philosopher discovers occult object, researches it against the advice of others, goes crazy and/or dies.
Of the stories I did read, Joanna Russ's "Our Boat" and Stephen King's "Jerusalem's Lot" were the true standouts, though it must be said that not even King did something particularly novel with the Lovecraft mythos.
A perfect primer to Lovecraft's Cthulhu Mythos as expanded by his contemporaries and disciples, as well as Lovecraft himself. This book is full of Lovecraft-inspired wierd fiction of highest quality, with entries by authors such as Robert E. Howard, Clark Ashton Smith, Philip Jose Farmer, August Derleth, Robert Bloch, Stephen King, and Lovecraft himself. This is the perfect launching pad for those looking to discover short genre fiction in the vein of Lovecraft's twisted and frighteningly unique imagination.
The verbose gentleman with bean-reeking breath slithered heinously off the pages.
The greatest fear is fear of the unknown," said HP Lovecraft. I have never met a soul who did not...appreciate...the genius of Lovecraft's historical works. Cthulhu ftaghn!
In my opinion, the best single collection of Cthulhu Mythos fiction. There's only one story from Lovecraft but a magnificent sampling of all the major writers who dabbled in the Mythos.
As Lovecraft himself has said before, “The oldest and strongest emotion of mankind is fear, and the oldest and strongest kind of fear is fear of the unknown.” He utilizes this to inflict great amounts of fear to the readers.Another factor contributing the senses of horror in his work is that he presents very clearly, the lack of control the protagonist character truly has.
Knowing and recognizing how powerless a human is to those beings who the human mind cannot even properly comprehend, truly agitates the fear and anxiety in one’s mind.The only problem I had with this book is that some of the stories in the collection feel a bit repetitive.
August Derleth gav ut den första utgåvan av "Tales of the Cthulhu..." 1969 och sedan släpptes en nyutgåva 1989 (den jag läst), även den på Arkham House men i regi av en James Turner.
Men jag kan absolut säga, även utan att ha läst den, att Turners utgåva är långt mycket bättre än Derleths.
I vilket fall som helst är det en helt okej samling noveller med några riktigt bra.
En samling som inte är värd fullpris, men om man kan hitta den begagnad så absolut köpvärd.
Se till att det är utgåvan med Turners namn på-
It kicks off with the famous "The Call of Cthulhu" by the man himself, and wends its way through Lovecraft collaborators and contemporaries, all the way to modern authors like Stephen King and Brian Lumley, finishing off with a hyper-futuristic tale, "Discovery of the Ghooric Zone." Favorites for me were:"Notebook Found in a Deserted House," by Robert Bloch"The Salem Horror," by Henry Kuttner"Sticks" by Karl Edward Wagner"Jerusalem's Lot," by Stephen KingAlso of note:"The Black Stone" shows how hard-core eldritch Robert E.
I really enjoyed the way she melded magical realism and frank social commentary, all in a humorous-but-poignant frame tale."Discovery of the Ghooric Zone," by Richard A.
Or, White Men Are Dumbasses, The Anthology.I picked this up (well, requested it through ILL) because I wanted to read Sticks, by Karl Edward Wagner, and I couldn't find it anywhere else.
Lovecraft himself and a lot of his imitators are boring, repetitive, and racist (as fuck, my friends, and these aren't even the super racist stories), but the later stories, especially those by Joanna Russ and Stephen King, turned out to be much more interesting, diverse, and fun to read.
A few of the stories, particularly My Boat by Joanna Russ, were actually pretty good, but seek those out on their own.
