https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/312743.History_of_the_Concept_of_Time
"A translator's introduction to this volume, by Theodore Kisiel, is published separately as 'On the Way to Being and Time: Introduction to the Translation of Heidegger's Prolegomena zur Geschichte des Zeitbegriffs,' Research in Phenomenology XV (1985)." --from the copyright page. Google has a substantial portion available for your browsing pleasure::http://books.google.com/books?id=ZMGw...
This deficiency naturally calls for a more fundamental investigation on the being of Dasein and the meaning of being in general, which Heidegger takes as his lifelong project.The main part resembles the first division of Being and Time in terms of structure, although expressions and terminology differ here and there.
Facticity is rather the integral structure of existence out of which the body and the bare nature becomes manifest.Second, Heidegger explores here a world that precedes all worlds.
Heidegger at his most readable, taking new directions on fundamental problems while he still acknowledges that he has relevant interlocutors (and readers). (Oh, and in case this even needs to be said, not even remotely a history of the concept of time, but something significantly more interesting - an exegesis of the basic problems of phenomenology. The great joke would be if BPOP were a history of time, but alas, no.)
I prefer this to Being and Time, and I prefer two of the first men cited in Being and Time to the text itself, Aquinas and Pascal. I have never eaten an egg or seafood in my life. Not all taste buds are created equal.
This book was an interesting read, though I cannot say that I understood everything.
As most say, the benefit of reading Heidegger lies in the possibilities his work opens, and it is this capacity of having possibilities presented to you that interests me in the History of the Concept of Time.With Heidegger I have the impression that he does not aim at giving you answers.
If a book is entitled the History of the Concept of Time do not expect it to be about time itself.
It will not speak of time at all, or it will wait until the end to give you an approximate understanding of what you seek.
a first partial draft of Being and Time.the first part is a kind of "advanced intro to phenomenology", followed by an "immanent critique" of it.
it clarifies how "the question of being" arises from phenomenology and it isn't answered by it.
I first read Heidegger's Being and Time as I entered graduate philosophy studies in the summer of 1969.
After all these years i have found a partial answer: his lectures in the early 1920's have been published and translated, and they provide a very interesting record of his intellectual journey.
The title of these lectures and the book was History of Concept of Time.
I had put off reading Heidegger for some years because of my disgust with the man's commitment to Nazism.
I recommend this to anyone who wants to tackle Being and Time: read this book FIRST!
Thus far, the book has been wonderful and a good source of preparation for Being and Time. Heidegger's explanation of Phenomenology and its various nuances has been the only source of difficulty, though the difficulty is managable and is mainly due to my lack of familiarity with Phenomenology and its methods. I especially enjoyed the section on being-in-the-world and knowledge as a derivative mode of in-being of Dasein. I am just beginning the section "Positive exposition of the basic structure of the worldhood of the world" and am looking foward to the rest of the lecture.
This is a nice precursor to reading Being & Time, and probably should be read. I especially found it useful in understanding Heidegger's idea of "care" which plays such a central role in B & T. Care is traced through the Phenomenological idea of "intentionality," which Heidegger explicitly rejects. Anyway, this book is probably better if you have some idea of the history of Phenomenology pre-Being & Time, but even if you don't, it's super helpful to understanding Being & Time.
The history of the Concept of Time was a much more thorough set of lectures on time and its phenomenological importance; how time is perceived, historical differences in time perception. This is also a much meatier read than Being and Time; there are more numerous examples, and more thorough explanations. It is still recommended that one has some sort of background into perception and phenomenology first before reading.
Introduction is the hardest and most confusing part of this book. Throughout the book Heidegger doesn't really get anywhere, but basically he keeps trying to go to the basics (understanding of Dasein) from first-person view. Toward the end there are some more vague ideas on some side-issues, which I found more interestng.
Perhaps one of the works I would suggest to introduce someone to Heidegger. It really lays the phenomenological foundations for understanding his work moving forward.
