https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2052462.Etiquette
I truly enjoyed reading this from a sort of ethnographic perspective. So much has changed since Emily Post first published this book in 1922 and I found this first edition fascinating.
So dated as to almost be fiction - I don't know why Bertie Wooster hasn't switched genres and turned up in here. But a fascinating glimpse into the upper echelons of society in days gone by.
If you're reading it now, you are literally reading it out of date!
If you're looking for actual current advice on how to act right, you might want to check out the dozens of updated and specific versions put out by Emily's estate.
But the original is a fascinating read.If you think this is all about what fork to use and how humiliated you should feel if you do anything wrong, it doesn't take much reading of the actual text to see how wrong that impression is.
Sure, if you're looking for detail about how the rich actually ate and lived, this is a treasure trove - and there's lots about forks, since she was specifically asked to include all those details.
Yes it is old and sections are a bit outdated, but this book is still a fun and enlightening read. And even almost a century later, Emily Post's wit and humor is biting, clever and never the least bit dry.The chapter on camping was especially entertaining.This may be your grandmother's etiquette book, but the granddaughters and great-granddaughters will still enjoy it.
I pretended this was science fiction and had a hilarious time. As a chronicle of an alien society's customs on a far-off planet, this book is the gift that keeps on giving.
This is one of the most important books that you can ever read on how to conduct yourself in society like a lady or a gentleman.
I like manners
The primary aims are to make your guests and yourself comfortable, and not to overstretch yourself: if you're newly married and only have a cook and part-time maid, don't try to throw a lavish 12-person 6-course dinner, for example, because no-one expects it you.
She covers how to be a good guest as well as a good hostess, how and what to pack for a visit, and what sort of things might be essential for your household.
Of course, much of this doesn't apply any more as social rules are no longer as rigid, but sometimes I do wish our current rules weren't quite as flexible; at least back then people knew what was expected in almost every situation!
Old and a bit pompous, but it never hurts to know how to be polite.
Terribly outdated, but some rules are timeless. And, regardless, it was pretty interesting!
Published in 1922. Mrs. Price Post (Emily) 1873-1960. The situations read like Downton Abby!! Butlers, lady's maids, motor cars. How appalled she would be with emails and cellphones of today.
