https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/253292.The_Last_of_the_Just
For the Lamed-Vov are the hearts of the world multiplied, and into them, as into one receptacle, pour all our griefs.” — from The Last of the Just, by Andre Schwarz-BartScattered throughout the world, their identity is unknown, even to each other.
Judaism is at its most powerful when it is about ways of Being in the World, rather than creed and dogma, which is why it is perfectly possible to be both an atheist and a Jew.So, how does this concept, and the way it is expressed in this novel, enrich or illuminate our understanding or “experience” of the Shoah?
Today, I write to tell you about it.From Wiki:Mystical Hasidic Judaism as well as other segments of Judaism believe that there is the Jewish tradition of 36 righteous people whose role in life is to justify the purpose of humankind in the eyes of God. Tradition holds that their identities are unknown to each other and that, if one of them comes to a realization of their true purpose then they may die and their role is immediately assumed by another person:The Lamed-Vav Tzaddikim are also called the Nistarim ("concealed ones").
How common is a phase of Shoah exploration? I found it rather odd and off-outting when I fell into a period in my early 20s, I was nearly obsessed and read constantly from scholarly analyses, memoirs and novels. I found the subject nearly untenable for most people in Southern Indiana: why would you want to read about that? Since then I have encountered a half dozen kindred souls who likewise went inexplicably overboard on this darkest of subjects.I read this novel in 1994 and was ripped as if by the throat and throttled violently.
One of my favorite pieces of realistic fiction, Schwarz-Bart's book is nothing less than a masterpiece.
The book examines antisemitism throughout historic Europe up to WW2.
The story goes through several pogroms throughout Europe's history and ends with the worst act of evil to ever befall the Jewish people of Europe, the Holocaust.
Having some background knowledge about Europe's history after establishment of the Roman Catholic Church, as well as a bit of background knowledge about Judaism may help establish a better contextual footing for somebody reading this book for the first time.
I highly recommend reading this book several times throughout your life.
This book, written in 1959, was one of the early accountings of the atrocities inflicted on Jews in Europe during World War II.
There are many parallels with the Jewish boy in the novel The Oppermanns by Leon Feuchtwanger, including the idea that some German Jews considered themselves “more German than Jewish” but, in the end, that did not save them.
The book begins as a family saga following several generations of this particular family lineage of “just men.” There is a lot of history of the family in the book going back to 1200, but the story comes to focus around World War II.
schwarz-bart takes his readers on a roller-coaster ride through the history of the story of "the last of the just" which commences back to the time of the prophet isaiah, jumping from chapter to chapter from the life of ernie levy ("the last of the just") back to...the begining...then back to ernie once more until, eventually, we stay with ernie and his attempts to escape the almost inevitable fate of every european jew during the rise of hitler's nazi war machine and attempts to wipe the jews off the face of the earth.
All I can say is that this book made me weep. Literally. If you read this book and are unmoved by the terrible inhumanity we are all capable of exhibiting, you may not have experienced a healthy dose of love in your life and therefore have no heart. Seriously. This book follows the Jewish experience through pograms to an entire family's extinction during the Holocaust. It examines anti-semitism and an all-too-human reaction to atrocity of "not my problem." It is tough to read, but worth it.
It's based on a twist of the Chassidic legend that there are 36 righteous people hidden in the world whose very existence justifies the existence of the rest of it, even evil.
In his book, the status of being one of the righteous is passed from father to son, which is NOT part of the Chassidic tradition.
My husband tells me that the number 36 isn't even Chassidic tradition, but that one has become particularly well-known.All this aside, it's a beautifully, haunting book that begins in the Middle Ages and follows through with every generation.
An absolutely essential read for anyone who has any interest whatsoever in trying to understand the Holocaust. It is a singular work and one of the most powerful novels I have ever read. The ending is something that I will never get out of my mind. Devastating.
A great book that I must re-read.
The story of the persecution of Jews is structured with the legend of the 38 Just Men. From the death of Rabbi Yom Tov Levy in York, England, in 1185, to the end of Ernie Levy's life in the gas chamber at Auschwitz, we follow the sufferings and joys of Jewish people over the centuries, through the lineage of one of the Just Men.Schwartz-Bart created characters that drew me into the story.
He shows human suffering so effectively that I found myself pulling out of the story at times - thankful that I'm not the one suffering the taunts and physical violence the characters in the book endured.Description is another strength of Schwartz-Bart.
The legend says that there are 36 just men who take on the world suffering onto their own shoulders,
God only knows why this book isn't taught in every school. Okay, so on the surface, it's a story of Jewish oppression in WWII, but it's so much more.
Schwartz-Bart, a survivor himself, starts this novel with a beautiful and intriguing genealogy of the just men of the Levy family preceding Ernie Levy, all destined to suffer and die horrific martyr-like deaths in massacres and pogroms, though at certain points in history, they don't die when and where and how they are supposed to, a puzzle that leads this book into the territory of existential comedy, where it soars.
His grandparents survive a pogrom, after which Ernie's father (to be) moves to Germany and opens up shop as a tailor.
The family Levy who have one man each generation called the Just Man, travels all over East Europe searching for a place to call home and finally settle in Zemyock, Poland and find peace for a few generations.
When the last son of the family, Ernie is born, it is the beginning of the 20th century, and most people knwo what happened to the Jews in the thirties in Germany and other countries invaded bu the Nazis.
Leaving Poland, Ernie Levy goes to France, but his freedom is short lived when the Nazi's invade France.
The book is the generational story of Ernie Levy, who is one of the 36 Lamed Vav Tzadikim (just men) that exist at any and all time that keeps the world from ending by justifying the purpose of mankind (unknown as such by Ernie himself).
Of course Ernie's existence is both difficult and very different from other men as he tries to relate to the world in general and finally to his responsibilities both as Jew and as a human being.
Terms like "powerful", "tragic" and "beautiful" will not prepare you for the story this book tells - it truly is one of a kind
All I can say that after that one has read this novel, one can not be the same as had been before.
This is an epic book. Okay 383 pages isn't that epic but it covers a long period of time, from the 12th through to the 20th centuries. I have to say, from my point of view, the Jews vanished from history by the end of the first century and then reappeared just in time for the Holocaust. I never had any idea what happened to them and I was never that interested. This book redresses the balance. I would not pretend for a moment that it's an easy read but I would say it is a necessary one.
One of the most beautifully written novels of all time So sad, but one of those books you must read in your lifetime.
Awe inspiring. Unforgettable.
a classic, but excruciating to read.
Through the epic story of their ancestors, the author clearly portrays the Jewish culture, their customs, their beliefs and what they go through up until the Holocaust.
I don't want to state the reasons here, you have to read this novel to discover them.Reading this novel to me, was like listening to a symphony full of beauty, strong feelings, sensing the suffering yet being a song from the soul of human heart.I can't recommend this novel enough.
This one is incredibly difficult to rate.
I read it in the Norwegian translation, which I'm doubting a little, and that doubt gives the fifth star to a book I wish I had read many years ago, before I had read so many others on vagely the same(-ish) topic.
Or is there one topic in this book?
I think there are many smaller topics which merge into one or two, but it'll take me some more reflection over it to figure out which they are and how they merge.
You don't simply put it down and then never think about it again.
This book narrates the life of Ernie Levy, who in 1942 turns up at a concentration camp where Jews are being processed for extermination and seeks admission. But the novel starts more than 800 years before his birth. Out of necessity it is long, and it sprawls; but in its English translation from the French, the prose is beautiful, and the story accelerates. To me the book is timeless and perfect. I know that the impression it made on me is indelible.
The story of one man caught up in the Shoah, sent to the gas chamber. One man, one of the lamed vavs ... one of 36 special people who are chosen by God in each generation to experience the world around them fully - as if they have no particular ego but become the container of all that happens to those around them.
À part de sa significance culturelle et historique, ce roman est incroyablement bien écrit. Et je pleurai beaucoup, c'est ne pas humainement possible de ne pas le faire. Pourtant je pris du temps pour lire cette livre, et les dernières pages étaient les plus dures à lire. Des semaines et des semaines pour lire la part Plus jamais. Et je vais le relire, une fois, deux fois ou encore plus.
I came to this classic latterly -- as in a few months ago (mid-2014). Great, great ending. Painful but characters written with such humanity that it earns the right to be on the bookshelf of those titles capable of changing a life.
A thought-provoking story that places one of the 36 Just Men of Hebrew legend in a WWII concentration camp.
Scenes from Last of the Just have stuck with me all these years and after reading it again that is no surprise.
It is a powerful story that follows a family, the Levys, through centuries with especial emphasis on what happened to Jews in Germany in the years after World War I through the extermination in Auschwitz and elsewhere.
The Levys are "just men", a Talmudic tradition that the piety of 36 just men, hidden saints, on whom the fate of the world depends.
The harrowing scenes of the spiraling discrimination, then abuse, then killing of Europe's Jews do not leave many innocents in the Germany of the time.
It is a book about the idea of the "Lamed-Vav"nicks, the 36 Just Men. It is a story of suffering by members of the Levy family through the ages, starting with the 1190 massacre of the Jews of York, but progressing quickly through to the late 19th century, and focusing on the early 20th century.
It's hard to know if the reason is that it was written in 1959, or if it's because it was translated from the original French.The most compelling part of the book describes how the Levy family is slowly caught in the changing political climate of Europe before WW2, and how this affects all the members of the family.
