https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3030513-the-fifty-first-dragon
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
23 MAR 2014 -- a fantastic recommendatio from Bettie. She knows well my love of dragons. Many thanks. “Gawaine le Cœur-Hardy,” followed by the inscription, "He killed fifty dragons.” The record has never been equaled. All because of a single magic word -- Rumplesnitz. Say this word and you are courageous, brave and true. Found here -- http://www.bartleby.com/237/33.html
The story's about a young trainee knight, Gawaine le Coeur-Hardy who had a "marvelously versatile gift for forgetting things."A coward though he was, a magic word did do the trick.
He slayed fifty dragons, but alas!
The magic word was but a trick; his fifty-first dragon was his fall.
A coward was given a magic word and told that it would help him slay dragons.
And dragons he slayed over and over again.
Oops, turns out the magic word was only something to give him confidence (which sadly he found out before he went out for his fifty-first dragon).
A funny story about a young cowardly boy who is forced into becoming a dragon slayer.
The boy is told that saying the magic word "rumplesnitz" will make keep him safe while slaying dragons.
Then, after slaying fifty dragons, the boy is told that the magic word doesn't mean anything at all, and the boy loses his confidence.
A happy ending.All it took for the boy to lose confidence was to know that there was no secret.
If it were me, knowing that there was no secret seems like it would only give me more confidence, but it didn't for the boy.
"Is he a real hero?" Main point is, no. He was not brave when he had a lesson. He was a bad person by drinking,smocking.He was so show off by cutting Dragons ear by tropic.  Finally,he was selfish that as soon as he knew that the magic word was not a magic word,he muttered and became scared and not brave. Then he had killed by Dragon next day,even though he killed fifty dragon!And it was such a small dragon. I really didn't enjoyed this book.Or a part.
I liked it though I pitied the main character. He freaked over that? You'd think he'd be proud that he didn't need magic to slay the dragons. Oh well. This was one of my favorite short stories that I had to read in my english class this year.
Good Story
