https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38469.Going_to_Meet_the_Man
No SurrenderWhenever I’m in danger of feeling smugly self-satisfied or, on alternate days, resentfully dissatisfied about my place in the world, James Baldwin is always on hand as a corrective.
The world must be destroyed entirely in order for it to be saved.Gnosticism provides a solid explanation for the world and the suffering one experiences and sees in others.
To be able to transport oneself into gnostic bliss is enough rational comfort.
And what he writes shares the pain.
It doesn’t rationalize or reduce the pain, but it spreads it so we all can know about it.
James Baldwin. James fucking Baldwin.Love of my life. Master of prose. Destroyer of my heart.Perfectly incredible selection of short stories that ripped me to pieces. Devastating and wonderful.Goddammit, my love for Baldwin has only increased. What a perfect way to start 2015's reading.
I was slightly disappointed with the first novel I read by the late great James Baldwin, Giovanni's Room.
This solid collection of 8 short stories is a great primer to his writing style and the themes that permeate most of his work, such as race, identity, sex, life in Harlem, and the influence of art, religion, and family.
Baldwin's writing is consistently sincere, although some stories kept my attention more than others.
The following quote is one the best descriptions of what great music, especially "the blues" is supposed to do, and what it means to be a musician:
I didn't like 'The Man Child' as much as the other stories because the violence of Jamie to the son of his smug friend with so much (for now) wasn't inevitable.
I think Baldwin is better than the little kid who thinks people in their thirties are old.
Without anything to connect to Jamie's old look other than his own now death it didn't mean much to me.I like it less connected to the story 'Going to Meet the Man'.
Passing bar-stool orbits look like her old lover, another white boy.
If you look through my notes below, you might decide that it is better to stay safe and not read this scary, sad piece of life.
Well the choice is yours of course, whether to choose to see, to taste a bit, to let the stories touch you and make you feel, to think, or you can stay safely away."The purpose of art is to lay bare the questions which have been hidden by the answers."  — James A.
The result – anger, violence, despondency, despair.The Man Child Chilling, the results of living a lie are scary - fullstopPrevious Condition Sad, tired, lost, angry and scared.
I know everybody's in trouble and nothing is easy, but how can I explain to you what it feels like to be black when I don't understand it and don't want to and spend all my time trying to forget it? Οι πρωταγωνιστές κι οι πρωταγωνίστριες των 8 μικρών ιστοριών προσπαθούν με πολυμήχανους κι απελπισμένους τρόπους να κρατηθούν στην επιφάνεια, αποτυγχάνουν κι όμως αγωνίζονται.
Everytime I read one of these short stories, in particular 'Going to meet the man', I found my jaw dropping open in amazement: the detail, the horror of human nature, Baldwin's ability and humanity through it all...completely awe-inspiring.
There was a long pause, while they talked up there in the indigo light and after a while I saw the girl put a scotch and milk on top of the piano for Sonny.
He didn't seem to notice it, but just before they started playing again, he sipped from it and looked toward me, and nodded.
Then he put it back on top of the piano.
For me, then, as they began to play again, it glowed and shook above my brother's head, like the very cup of trembling." --from "Sonny's Blues"The brother can WRITE!
This week one of my African-American students, 19 years old, told the class he is a racist.
When I asked him to explain he only said, "Well, everyone's racist." I first started reading James Baldwin many years ago, before I understood and acknowledged the truth of what my student said.
I loved his writing but didn't know what to do with his rage.
All of these stories were painful to read and I could almost not get through the final, title story.
But Baldwin's artistry and, more importantly, his humanity, makes it possible for people like me to confront the myriad awful truths of American racism.
Zbiór przejmujących i poruszających opowiadań. Nie jestem przyzwyczajona do czytania opowiadań, dlatego po skończeniu pierwszego tekstu, pierwsza mysl jaka mnie naszła, byla "czemu juz? Chce wiecej!"Mądrość wymowy z połączeniu z genialnym stylem sprawiają, że uważam to za jedną z najlepszych książek jaką przeczytałam w ostatnich latach!
• THE MAN CHILD: the chilling life story of an eight year old white boy...• PREVIOUS CONDITION: the dynamics involved with being a down and out black actor in apartheid America.
• THIS MORNING, THIS EVENING, TOO SOON: a black man plans to return to the US from France with a Swedish wife and their son to … • COME OUT THE WILDERNESS: a black woman comes to terms with life in Greenwich Village and her ghosts from the south.
In the first story, the family consists of Father, Mother, baby, son Roy, and son John.
David, John's friend, Roy, and John have bought a birthday gift for Sophie, who goes to the same church.
As the day goes on, John begins to feel that David is more interested in Sophie than in him.THE MAN CHILD is one scary story about an 8-year old white boy.
COME OUT THE WILDERNESS tells about a young African-American woman from a small town in the south who came to NYC with a much older man, an artist.
The short story "Going to Meet the Man" lured me in, I resolved to read this whole book when I got the chance.
It is a collection of several short stories by Baldwin, dissecting the ideas of love, hate, life, death, sexuality and race with his persistently poignant prose.
Baldwin proposes the possibility of racism being driven by this innate hunger for domination--something that is manifest within the story's redneck deputy sheriff Jesse--in the form of extreme sexual sadism.
The last story (flawlessly) links together sexuality, violence, sadism, racism, and religion to form this surreal and haunting chunk of short story fiction.
I don't always love short stories, but dear goodness, these are magnificent.
And brutal.
And so easy enter into, even if the scenarios are wretched, even if you think "I can't imagine feeling that way" you listen for ten more minutes and find yourself thinking "of course he feels that way.
Or a story of two brothers, one of whom is just out of prison and hasn't played the piano in years.
If you listen to audiobooks, Dion Graham is a stunning reader for this book.
Part of me wishes that I had read all of the Baldwin books years ago so that I could be rereading them now.
Most of me recognizes that now is a fairly perfect intersection between my readiness for Baldwin and Baldwin's forever increasing relevance.
His work seems more vital and more alive and more necessary this summer than any other work I have ever known.
I have yet to read a word of his work that I do not hope to reread many times over.
There is no one better than Baldwin.
A few years ago I was assigned a handful of these short stories for an African-American lit course (taught by a white man, naturally) and I really liked them, but my intention to read the whole collection fell away with other coursework.
I'm happy to have finally read the entire collection now, and I was right to not read it in the middle of the semester--these are stories that are meant to be taken in slowly and savored.
His writing is thoughtful, careful, and poignant.This is definitely a collection I will return to again and again.
After having read Between the World and Me by Ta-Nehisi Coates, I was, despite the gloomy descriptions of black male life, uplifted.
And this is the thing, for me, about Baldwin's prose, which is so fantastically can't-keep-my-arms-down, screaming-at-the-top-of-my-lungs intoxating.
I could even highlight it's relevance in today's segregated world, where blacks in the US still struggle and suffer and scream for justice, and where refugees flee the Middle East's war-torn countries in search of redemption and safety, but instead are met with violence and prejudice.
Baldwin does this thing in this collection of stories (the titular story excluded) where he leaves you wanting so much more out of the lives of these characters.
The characters are wholly and simply human, complicated in just the right fashion to let you know that you can go out into the street and meet them there.The last story, Going to Meet the Man, is written with such frightening and chilling accuracy that I could hardly stomach it.
Baldwin easily captures the psyche of a racist, depraved, southern sheriff and you almost wonder how.
Reading Baldwin is a complex experience.
I end this collection of stories wth feelings of disgust, bitterness, anger, loss, love, and in complete awe of Baldwin.
The master of deeply confusing and traumatic prose.
No one writes of complex emotions better than Baldwin.
He was himself a highly conflicted and complex man as is evident in his stories.
But if his fiction is anything to go by he was also deeply capable of loving and being loved.
He was highly political and the finest of African Americans.
Round of applause for you once again, Mr. Baldwin.
What can I say except, "Wow"! This was an exceptionally written book of short stories that gives the reader a vivid view of the negative side of humanity. My favorite stories were 'The Man Child' and 'Going To Meet the Man'. The latter was superbly written with such intense detail, that at some points it was a bit difficult to read. However, it really gives the reader an intense look at the evils of the mistreatment of African Americans, particularly the men. James Baldwin, once again, shows the genius writer that he is through this book.
what can i say, i love "sonny's blues" too. the rest of his writing appeals to me, but not as much. i have a really bad memory but i can still remember reading sonny's blues for the first time. that image of him playing the piano at the end and the "very cup of trembling" they might as well be etched into my brain matter. they've stuck with me for ten years, and i'll continue to be influenced by that story.
Baldwin is a master. I wish each of these short stories was a full novel that never ended. I could read his words forever and not get tried. His characters are all wounded, dark, and suffering just the way I like, but they are also filled with joy and hope and in search of a better world. Again, not really for younger readers, but read Baldwin when you are in IB or Uni, you will love it.
I wasn't able to connect with the writing style in these stories. Some stories I felt ended abruptly that I didn't understand what was going on. I jumped between the stories and did not read them in order, and some of the stories I stopped after a few pages and went to the next one.
ilk kez okuyuşumun üzerinden üç yıl geçmiş ama gördüm ki "sonny's blues" hayatta bana en çok dokunan öykülerden biri hâlâ.baldwin'i okumak bedensel bir deneyim gibi geliyor bana.
yer değiştirip birbirlerinin üzerinden atlıyor, içimde oynuyorlarmış gibi hissediyorum.
içim dışarı çıkmak için bir yol arıyor gibi.baldwin'in son yazma konusunda çok yetenekli olduğunu düşünüyorum bir de.
yine bedensel bir deneyim aslında.
ama bu, nefesin hızlanması ya da kesilmesi gibi bir keskinlikle yaşanan bir şey değil.
olağan hale eklenen küçük bir es gibi, göğse takılan minicik bir kanca ve onun getirdiği belli belirsiz, çökertmeyen ama yine de ağırlığını hissettiren bir sızı gibi hissettiriyor kendini.
Heartbreaking, beautiful soul-stirring- Baldwin gets me every time...
There are so, so many layers to this story, as with all the other stories in this collection, just as there are for each of us as human beings.One thing Baldwin often does that is generally considered taboo in fiction writing is break the "show, don't tell" rule.
But, the same way certain boxers can drop their hands in a match and actually do better because of it, Baldwin is able to break this rule and have those parts of his writing be among some of his best.
If you're looking for a good short story collection, you simply cannot go wrong with this one.
I was expecting devastating looks at American racism & that was certainly there - esp in the sickening title story.
It was the fictional realism that contributed to my putting off the reading.
It seems that in fiction I prefer transcendent formal absurdist imagination to realism & wd rather just read political essays when it comes time to take a hard look at the hard subjects of racism & human nature..
BUT, that sd, thank goodness for Baldwin b/c he says what oh-so-desperately-needs-to-be-sd in the fictional form that's likely to reach the most people - & I reckon he's as famous as he is b/c he did it so well.
I've read and taught "Sonny's Blues," so many times over the years, but this is the first time I've read this entire collection, and it just devastated me in that way only the best fiction and writing can do.
The feat of empathy that Baldwin achieved to write the voice of that white man filled with such hate and confusion, and to imagine him as an eight year old innocent, who loses his innocence, is truly astonishing.
Simply an outstanding short story collection.
But as good as everything before it was, nothing quite prepares you for the power of the collection's title story, "Going to Meet the Man".
If all the stories before it were like a friend gently poking their finger on your chest, to make a point, then "Going to Meet the Man" is an electric cattle prod jammed against your heart and held there.
Take all the black civil rights books you've ever read.
Add a drop of nitro glycerin for good measure, and then lean back and read.
James Baldwin writes with such insight and beautiful description.
We can see echoes of Baldwin's life in the stories, but Baldwin branches out to explore the points of view of many characters, some of whom are grossly unsympathetic (like the sheriff torturer in a small Southern community), but all of whom are very much human and not presented as caricatures.
Baldwin often takes the point of view of a woman, and he does so effectively.
His intuition and perception are always present.
Once again, astonishing insight and perception.
