https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100915.The_Lion_the_Witch_and_the_Wardrobe
This is the first book where I chronicled my thoughts as I read through it with my son.
I've read a lot of books to my little boy these last couple years, and I can honestly say that This book is among the best.
But honestly, this book was written 60 years ago, and you need to cut it a little slack because of that.
And in my opinion, it only needs a little slack.
Truth be told, I've read books written this year that have ten times the sexism this one does.
“If ever they remembered their life in this world it was as one remembers a dream.”  The real world is boring; it’s mundane, unimaginative and dry. So humans create fantasy as a means of escape. We watch movies or go to the theatre to see something more interesting than the standard realities of the everyday. We paint pictures and gaze up at the stars. We play video games and roleplay. We dream. Authors like C.S Lewis and J.K Rowling show us this miserable world; they show us its tones of grey.
“She did not shut it properly because she knew that it is very silly to shut oneself into a wardrobe, even if it is not a magic one.” Sure, there’s a war going on.
For in Narnia there is also Aslan and a whole bunch of interesting characters.
Though one issue I have with the book, and one that makes me very much aware of the text as a construct, is the questions over why Aslan actually needed to the four children.
Though what Narnia does have is Aslan.
It’s hard not to Aslan.
The only thing the kids do is help run the battle, but this is only necessary because Aslan is absent, and he's only absent because the kids screwed up, meaning the entire thing would have gone off without a hitch if they had never showed up in the first place.In that regard, I have to say Lewis did an excellent job boiling down Christianity into a fable, and leaving the problem of evil completely intact.
It is unfortunate that many of today's readers think of Lewis' writings as defining English fairy tales, since his late additions to the genre are not original, nor are they particularly well-executed examples.Many authors have come to the genre with much more imagination, a deeper sense of wonder, and a more far-reaching exploration of magic.
One day, you will be old enough to start reading fairytales again. It's like C.S. Lewis was speaking to me. I never read these as a child but now that I'm in my mid-twenties, I'm feeling the urge to visit all those childhood classics I never read. And I'm so glad I did.  Peter did not feel very brave; indeed, he felt he was going to be sick. But that made no difference to what he had to do.  Four siblings on a rainy day play hide-and-seek. The youngest discovers an incredible secret in the back
One day, you will be old enough to start reading fairytales again.
Peter did not feel very brave; indeed, he felt he was going to be sick.
The youngest discovers an incredible secret in the back of the old wardrobe in their uncle's house.
After a fair amount of convincing, she and her three siblings set out to explore and are soon whisked into the land of Narnia.
It's all in the wardrobe just like I told you!
I've watched the movie as a kid but reading the book?
I felt like a little kid being read to!Blog | Instagram | Twitter
I must have read it three or four times as a child.
Hits all the spots in my reading dreams.
Every child should read it.Imagination runs free here.
1 goes exploring and finds herself lost in the world of Narnia.
The book shows what happens when you don't listen to one another.Aslan, the hero lion, helps show what sacrifice is all about.
Good stuff.I spent many a days looking for the secret world hidden somewhere in my closets.
While I never actually transported to another world, this book is like its own Narnia - a transport into something magical.
And once through the wardrobe, there was this wonderful and friendly creature called a faun, Mr Tumnus.
As the chapters progressed we got to know more about the siblings and the other creatures who inhabit Narnia.
To my joy, I discovered there were other books about Narnia and I eventually read all of them too.
I will always be grateful to Mr Goodwin, he started off by telling me about Narnia, but in the end, he introduced me to so much more through my on going love of books.
Lucy is the first to enter the wardrobe and be transported into the secret world of Narnia.
There she meets a talking faun who eventually warns her about the white witch who keeps Narnia in a constant state of winter.
Once back home, she informs her siblings who do not believe her until they too eventually enter the wardrobe and the world of Narnia.Narnia is full of talking animals, magic, and the loathsome witch who turns animals into stone statues if they do not do as she pleases.
I don't like C.S Lewis's non fiction books, but here he knocked the ball out of the park.Aslan, whose antics and decision making and beliefs are difficult to map, is the way by which the children triumph.
If Alice in Wonderland was positively secular, TLTWaTW is heavily defined by the Christian mythos.There are many shining examples of pause to let the tension play out, before a little more of the adventure is revealed.
Curiously, along with wonder, it is with the realization that I read this book.
It's a book that does not belong to any age, decade, or era.
It's a little wonder of writing.
I hadn't read this in forever, so it was fun to come back to. I definitely remembered it being much more detailed, though. It's a pretty fast read... so that's funny how much my mind added to the story as a kid. But I still adore these books so much!!And I still think this movie was one of the best adaptations ever.
It is the first published and best known of seven novels in The Chronicles of Narnia (1950–1956).
(استیپلز) لوئیس؛ مترجم: امید اقتداری؛ منوچهر کریم زاده؛ تهران، انتشارات ایران، 1377؛ در 218 ص؛ شابک: 9646038085؛ چاپ دیگر: هرمس، 1379، در 166 ص، چاپ بعدی 1382؛ در 169 ص؛ شابک: 9647100116؛ چاپ سوم 1384؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی برای نوجوانان - قرن 20 معنوان: شیر ساحره و کمد لباس؛ نویسنده: سی.
(استیپلز) لوئیس؛ مترجم: پیمان اسماعیلیان خامنه؛ تهران، قدیانی، بنفشه، 1386؛ در 236 ص؛ شابک: 9644178505؛ چاپ بعدی 1392؛ در 238 ص؛ شابک: 9789644178504؛عنوان: ماجراهای نارنیا 1: شیر و کمد و جادوگر؛ نویسنده: سی.
The main arguments against this novel as a 'Christian allegory' that I have heard are: 1)Aslan is not a strong Christ-figure 2)That C.S. Lewis 'preaches' a black and white morality.
Of course I explain roughly and inadequately.Ultimately I see that there is room to argue that C.S. Lewis does a poor job of writing an allegorical novel.
And that is what The Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe is, a story to be enjoyed by everyone.
But I argue that as Lewis only wrote this story based on the story of the crucifixion in many ways that it was not intended as a preachy book.
Novels were not a part of my life until my mid teens and therefore I missed out wonderful reading experiences like the Chronicles of Narnia but while I wish I had read more as a child I am having an absolute ball catching up on all these enchanting books when I can appreciate them on a different levelimage: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe is a compelling story that is both enchanting and filled with fantasy and adventure and I think can be appreciated by both adults and children alike.Writen by C.S. Lewis in 1950 for his god daughter Lucy, The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe is part of a book series which is known as The Chronicles of Narnia.
Come buddy read this with me and my dear friend Julie this Decemeber! brNarnia➽ 12/17 chapters 1-6➽ 12/18 chapters 7-11➽ 12/19 chapters 12-EndBlog | Instagram | Twitter | Tumblr | Youtube | Twitch Buddy read with Julie from Pages and Pens! ❤
*The very mention of Aslan's name caused certain positive feelings to come over them all they didn't know why.
Aslan neither excused him nor condemned him.*They all knew better than to go into a wardrobe & shut the door as the book mentions a whole bunch of times.
Edmund shows the worst side of human nature, to betray & let others down.*I love that Father Christmas comes giving gifts that represent the gifts & talents we each have to help others with and to overcome evil with.There's more but I have to go!
Strange that a lion should be chosen to represent the big man when Lions are notoriously aggressive, solitary carnivores who are more likely to eat any potential apostles than than teach or lead them.The white witch = Satan or Eve the temptress depending on which side of the tree of knowledge you're most likely to be barking up.
Like Alan Rickman in Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves, she has cancelled Christmas.Edmund = Judas Iscariot.
An unusual scenario given the general hoo-hah about whether or not any of apostles were female (see last supper male/female image debate).Mr Tumnus the faun = an aberration.
late to the party but better late than never. :D
“Once a king or queen of Narnia, always a king or queen of Narnia.” The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe is the second novel of C.S. Lewis series, The Chronicles of Narnia.
The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe brightens up my imagination, which I have forgotten with my dreary adulthood duties.The children were realistic with their thoughts and perspectives of life.
It was a shameful message, and I couldn't for the life of me shake it off.The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe is another magical, highly imaginative adventure through the land of Narnia.
I'm 32 and this was the first time that I'd ever read this. It was great fun. Great for children and adults alike. Completely enchanting. x
“Once a king or queen of Narnia, always a king or queen of Narnia.” In this magical whirlwind of Narnia, four children – Lucy, Peter, Susan and Edmund all enter Narnia – a magical world where animals talk and the White Witch who reigns as Queen makes it always winter and never Christmas.
Susan and Peter enter together and find Lucy and Edmund.
Together, the children join forces with Aslan's army against the heartless and wicked White Witch.I simply loved how Lewis created the world of Narnia, a land of magical creatures and awesome adventure.
It dawned on me the other day that I'd never read The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe.
The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe is seriously a sleek book!
What impressionable young mind could not get caught up in a fantasy of monsters, magic, evil queens, heroic lions and more with boys and girls to follow into a mystical land, leaving behind the mundane?The only thing about the story that I could speak negatively about is its everything-and-the-kitchen-sink tossing in of whatever legendary beast Lewis could think of, plus, what the hell, let's throw in Santa Claus, too!
The ride was awesome and I found the characters warm and fuzzy despite the eternal cold that had been placed upon Narnia.
The kings and queens of Narnia.
It's amazing how short it is, I only read it in one and a half hour, I simply devoured it.
I'll certainly be reading this to my kids in the future.
As a result you are already too old for fairy tales, and by the time it is printed and bound you will be older still.
But some day you will be old enough to start reading fairy tales again.
Read as a little girl and loved it. Loved the mysterious places and fantasy lives and I always wanted my wardrobe to enter into a magical land. This book is worth more than 5 stars.
After I first read this book as a young boy I remember distracting my father one day whilst he was working in his shed at the bottom of our garden.
When I got back to my bedroom I closed the door and went about removing the panel pins from the backing boards at the rear of my wardrobe.
I had lots of fun inviting friends around after school and showing them that when I stepped into my wardrobe I disappeared into a portal and into a new world.
The fun lasted for about two weeks before my mother found out and my father reattached the back boards.
What a great family read aloud. My eight, six and four year old (and husband) enjoyed hearing this. The four year old flagged a bit but the eight year old got the allegory. A fantastic story, so well told.
She freezes their hearts like block of ice, she makes their eyes to see only the bad and ugly in people and things.
There are the talking animals that we meet in so many old fairytales like Three Little Pigs Little and Red Riding Hood with the evil wolf (Brothers Grimm).6.
There is a touch of Alice in Wonderland (Lewis Carroll) where Lucy instead of falling through a rabbit hole into a fantasy world and following the rabbit, she goes through a Wardrobe and follows the faun.8.There is Santa Claus or Father Christmas (the traditional English name for the personification of Christmas) who brings useful gifts9.
Nesbit).The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe teaches children merits like personal sacrifices for the general good, friendship, love and commitment.
Going into the world of Narnia was like a dream. Exploring the new world and creatures and seeing it all through the eyes of these amazing characters was just the best time. Other than what was probably the biggest plot conveniance I've read since Harry Potter (view spoiler)[ Santa Clause showed up (for the first time in a lifetime), gave all the children swards, and bows, and a horn that can call help whenever needed, then flew off again (hide spoiler)] this book was just amazing. It had such a
Exploring the new world and creatures and seeing it all through the eyes of these amazing characters was just the best time.
Other than what was probably the biggest plot conveniance I've read since Harry Potter (view spoiler)[ Santa Clause showed up (for the first time in a lifetime), gave all the children swards, and bows, and a horn that can call help whenever needed, then flew off again  (hide spoiler)] this book was just amazing.
I almost didn't continue to the next one because it was such a satisfying ending but I just want to spend more time with these children and in this world.
This is one of those books that takes you to a land where you feel like you've come to this place many times before, it feels like home, you keep hugging this book, every time enchanted and when you return to your world.All you feel is MAGICAL.
"I wrote this story for you, but when I began it I had not realized that girls grow quicker than books.
As a result you are already too old for fairy tales, and by the time it is printed and bound you will be older still.
But some day you will be old enough to start reading fairy tales again."
I'm glad the scripwriters did not destroy the essence of the story, which is (though simple), a charming tale!Anyway, coming back to the story, it is about four adventurous children, who accidentally discover the magical world of Narnia behind a wardrobe in an old strange house.
It read: " My dear Lucy,I wrote this story for you, but when I began it I had not realized that girls grow quicker than books.
But some day you will be old enough to start reading fairy tales again.
Dear God, I hope I'm NEVER too old for fairy tales!
I am tempted to give this book a zero but the idea of going through the wardrobe to another land is fantastic.
Everything else, however, is not fantastic, including:The over-the-top Christian allegory.The complete absence of dramatic tension - the characters are static and the conclusion is foregone.
There is nothing to keep you reading, to challenge you, or to even vaguely interest you.The writing is mediocre at best.The dialogue is mediocre at best.Awful book, it as if someone read Matthew through John, and then said these four gospels are good but it would take a master writer to retell them with talking animals and have it be worse to the point of complete boredom.
And Aslan stood up and when he opened his mouth to roar his face became so terrible that they did not dare to look at it." pg 161.The film did a solid job capturing the magic of this story, but nothing compares to the book."Once a King in Narnia, always a King in Narnia." pg 186.In fact, just writing up this review makes me want to read them all again.I'll see you on the other side of the wardrobe...
