https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/958668.The_Corner_That_Held_Them
This will inevitably be frustrating to some readers, but it's where the real beauty of the book is felt: the narrative drops in and out of stories, characters lunge towards and away from objectives, and there is nothing at all (save the location) that ties the story together into a neat little bow.
Its color was an unflawed virtue; it lay there and knew nothing but the God who had made it.There's a sense of a turning point, that Lilias could escape her life and her self by traveling, by seeing new things.
And we see a little of the daily life of one of the convent’s dependencies.EPISODE #11 “A Sacrifice to Woden”: Dame Sibilla, Bishop Walter’s great-niece, comforts him on his death bed, “a new truth was made plain” and Dame Lilias’s dearest wish is revived.EPISODE #12 “The Candlemas Cuckoo”: The Peasants’ Revolt touches the nuns and prompts simple Dame Adela to leave; and Ursula’s Jackie has a hand in despoiling the convent of its altar cloth.EPISODE #13 “A Green Staff”: Father Ralph finally passes on, and the nuns are faced with electing a new prioress.EPISODE #14 “Prioress Margaret”: In our final episode, the convent loses its silver altar pieces, Dame Lilias and Dame Sibilla go to the cathedral to beg alms, and Dame Sibilla becomes a pilgrim to the Holy Land.The Corner That Held Them is a tale of small people leading small lives but its Warner’s attention to the details and her loving descriptions of these lives that make them precious.
Eschewing traditional plot structure, Sylvia Townsend Warner recounts life in a small Benedictine convent during the 14th century.
I didn’t adore ‘The Corner that Held Them’ with the same intensity as the former two, but it still made me smile on a long train journey with observations of this sort:Entering, Dame Matilda received a meaning glance of comradeship from her prioress.
Sylvia Townsend Warner brings this world of the past to life beautifully, with a mordant wit and eye for striking details.
There is no plot as such; although there are many stories, the novel follows the fortunes of the convent over many years.
Many of the women find themselves leading a religious life due to family connections or business like transactions.
The characters in this novel are subject to jealousies, deceits and ambitions, these emotions drive the stories of the convent.
A priest who is not really a priest, the building and then collapse of a spire, a murder, a disappearing nun, elections of prioresses and visits by a bishop and his custos are among the stories that are told in this beautifully written novel.
This novel, in part, about a medieval building project in an isolated village, is finely written and is truly the antidote to a recent book, Pillars of Earth, that takes on similar territory but with execrable, cornball writing and supermarket checkout stand plot twists. Ugh. The Corner That Held Them is the real deal.
confess to having skimmed the last half pretty quickly as had lost all interest....there is nothing wrong here really, and I am sure others may find much to enjoy, I just found the prose dull and the narrative and characterisation similarly boring.
The story is expansive and runs on at a pace, but narrower concerns (the pain of loneliness, the discovery of a new kind of music, the desire to become an anchoress), when they appear, are excruciatingly poignant.
The bell rang and the nuns went into quire.
The bell rang and the serfs in the great field paused in their labour and crossed themselves, and then scratched themselves, and then went on working.
The little bell rang and Christ was made flesh.
The bell silent, Christ not made, the world snapped like a bubble.
Slow, ponderous, meandering, vicious, fascinating, dragging, feminist, difficult, uncomfortable, and ultimately ambiguous.I would not recommend this to anyone, per se, because it was incredibly time consuming and I'm not certain the effort was entirely worth it. But, as usual, Warner's skill with a phrase can cut through any drudgery the reader is feeling in one incisive instant. Her knack of winnowing out the way women were treated, whether it be in a long-distant history, like here, or in a curious modern day (like in Lolly Willowes and shining a quietly strong light onto it never stops entertaining me.
I found this book of a medieval convent very interesting.I had no idea that for many young girls it was a business transaction bringing in much needed funds!An outbreak of the Black Death,the collapse of the convent spire, a mad priest who isn't all he seems.A disappearance, dramas of a cloistered community has been brought vividly to life.
The novel appears light on plot - there is a lot of description of the everyday struggles that the nuns face, the many illnesses, deaths, financial problems that they have to deal with, but the general feeling I got as the novel progressed was one of a community of women who pretty much had to look after themselves, with very little help from the outside.
The fascinating thing of course is that it was mostly about women, living together and surviving (for the most part, as a lot of them died) largely without the help of men.
Loved it, hated it, liked it, loved it. I will miss reading about these nuns. Whatever happens to Dame Sibila?
http://vulpeslibris.wordpress.com/201...
A history of a small English nunnery in 14th-c. England presented as a kind of Buddenbrooks saga. The most interesting characters appear towards the end, and then everything abruptly stops.
But there will be ports of safety.The community of nuns depicted here may be from the 12th through to the 14th centuries,may be 'sheltered' from the world,but they are "not exempt from the ambitions, squabbles,jealousies and pleasures of less spiritual environments."Hollywood's "Bells of St Mary's" with a crooning Bing Crosby as the priestand a perfect illusion of a nun in a habited Ingrid Bergmannis just that - Pure Hollywood."What's a person like you doing in a place like THAT !!!"asked the non-Catholic psychologist to whom the company of priestshad finally sent me.This too would be good Hollywood Fare.But that's because it is Real.Read this book.I promise you, it is Real.My book will be published under the title "Dirty Habits".Hollywood has already asked me for the First Copy.I'm just glad Bing and Ingrid aren't around.This book first read in 1987.
Good - felt rather like you were eavesdropping on the convent rather than a standard plot driven novel, however that is a real problem when it gets to the end because it doesn't!
No tying up of loose ends, nothing!
For which I docked it 1 star from the 4 I would otherwise have given it.
I wanted to know if they raised the money for new plate etc etc.
I must say that it felt like a reasonable, if grim, depiction of the realities of a medieval English convent; fleas, rioting peasants, petty politics and unappealing food.
this is a great read. if nabakov had been a woman who wrote about the day-to-day goings on of a 14th-century convent, this witty, irreverent, delightful, surprising and very earthy work would've been the end result. so vividly imagined. a modernist novel in historical clothes. considered starting over right from the beginning to get even more pleasure out of it. i also loved her novel Mr. Fortune's Maggot.
My love affair with Sylvia Townsend Warner's work continues. Here she tells the story of the nuns of Oby,a religious community of flawless mediocrity and relentlessly poor management. Henry VIII and the dissolutionof monastic houses could not have come fast enough to tear apart this place: it was already in tiny pieces.Reading this made me glad to be a card-carrying heathen.
I rarely re-read novels but this book demanded it. I can't effectively describe to my friends why this is one of the best things I've ever read, but I found it an unparalleled unique and wonderful book -- so hopefully simply mentioning that is enough.
Good.
What a peculiar book this was.
The result is that the book becomes very easy to put down and it took me forever to wade through it; and yet perhaps because I lived with this story for so long, it worked its way under my skin and I found myself enjoying it quite a bit.
I can only think that when it was published in 1948 it must have seemed an alarmingly modern way of writing historical fiction, and it has certainly aged very well.

Fantastic - I loved the experimental approach to writing a novel and the in depth analysis of a community of nuns over a long period of time. The title is so apt - their lives are constrained by the one small area of convent land on which they live.
Sorry - really well written but not for me.
I was bereft when I reached the end of this book as I had become so immersed in the story and the characters. Brilliant.
Beautifully written - manages to be timeless and to evoke a distant age, when religious houses, many of them small, inefficient and unregarded like Oby, covered the land. And often wryly witty too.
This aspect of her plotting was what began to convince me that she actually was a modernist writer, even though she seems in many ways to be quite different from other modernists; her sentence-level style, for instance, is gorgeous (I was compelled to read aloud more than once) but not particularly experimental, and she tends to write historical fiction, not especially popular among modernists.The Corner That Held Them , she does not have the subtle plot shift that the other two novels have.
Published the year I was born.A disappointing follow-up to the first of Warner's books I read--Lolly Willowes.
Perhaps this is just Warner's way of talking herself out of this romantic ideal and into the reality of petty grievance, incompetence, and the constant wearing of small souls against one another that is the hallmark of any community.Still, I didn't throw the book across the room or even set it aside as unreadable.
I want to continue to read more of this writer if only to see how that early novel Lolly Willowes could degenerate into such a tedious jumble of this late one.
I'd loved Summer Will Show and liked Lolly Willowes, and the premise of this one - plotless slice-of-life kind of story, historical fiction, groups of women living together, etc.
The prose was lovely, and the story definitely had its moments, but in general I kept finding myself zoning out and having to go back and read 3-4 pages to figure out what I'd missed because no matter how hard I tried it just could not keep my attention.
I guess Sylvia Townsend Warner's tendency to write radically different types of stories with each novel she churned out was bound to stop working in my favour at some point.
This was glorious!
This is a gentle tale of a medieval convent and the people in and around it.
There is no plot as such just a series of events.
As a portrayal of a convent in the C14th it rings true, although it's not an area of expertise for me.
The writing is beautiful too - a wide and varied vocabulary which awakened my love for words as the tale unfolded, vivid descriptions of people, places and events.I intend to read other of Sylvia Townsend Warner's works as I understand they are equally fascinating and all different from each other.
A remarkable and original recreation of the small world of a Norfolk convent from around 1350 to 1380.
Details the relations among the nuns and with the people in the surrounding countryside.
A central character is the priest who isn’t really a priest.
Captures the uneventful rhythm of life in a remote corner of the medieval world and the parade of the small concerns of those living in it.
A very humane book that deserves to be much more widely known.
The dense and real texture of that long-passed world is revealed vividly, reviving a vocabulary of long-forgotten terms for the everyday life of those times.
