https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/825.Zodiac
His main area of expertise is all the illegal dumping into Boston Harbor, and he spends most of his time zipping around on his Zodiac boat charting the chemical levels, figuring out how it’s getting in the water, and then ripping the ass out of the corporation doing the polluting ST is cocky, smart and has the MacGyver-like mechanical skills to use toilet parts and salad bowls to block off a mile long underwater pipe being used to illegally dump toxins.
ST’s crusade against the illegal waste dumpers of the Boston area eventually gets him mixed up with a conspiracy involving some extremely dangerous toxic waste and a presidential candidate.As usual, Stephenson is a bit ahead of his time in this book written in 1988.
Sangamon Taylor  just might be the love of my life (and, as far as I'm concerned, the fact that he's an emotionally unavailable, fictional character is kind of a win-win). By my metrics of greatness, billing  ST  (that's what all the cool kids call him) as the “Granola James Bond” undersells him by a long shot.Employed as a  “professional asshole”  (his words) by GEE, an environmental activist group in Boston, ST is a chemist by training, a fan of avoiding Boston traffic by taking to its waterw
just might be the love of my life (and, as far as I'm concerned, the fact that he's an emotionally unavailable, fictional character is kind of a win-win).
In a pinch, ST would definitely know how to make use of dry ice and a fun, sexy little molecule some like to call 
6. Last, but not least, Sangamon Taylor understands that it's not about the size of the boat…it's about the engine, and knowing how to use it.
is an exception to the rule for those who, otherwise, are not big Stephenson fans.
If not for the voice of Sangamon Taylor, Neal Stephenson's Zodiac would have been a relatively okay eco-thriller, but the book isn't just the voice of Sangamon Taylor, it IS Sangamon Taylor, and once again Stephenson's ability to create compelling leading men (think Hiro Protagonist in Snow Crash) makes one of his books superior to the pulp it was inspired by.Sangamon Taylor is Boston Harbor's very own Toxic Avenger.
Working for GEE -- a thinly veiled, fictional Greenpeace -- ST spends his days testing the waters in his Zodiac so that he can trace the waste dumping of Boston's big, bad corporations.
It's a fun book, and decent in its own right.
The ending ties things up more neatly that he does in his other books.
I've always been a bit dissatisfied with Stephenson's endings (except for the Baroque trilogy, which has a few amazing and perfect endings).
And there were some entertaining, but very brief, digressions and infodumps here -- the sort of thing that become the meat of the later, fatter books.
An extraordinarily fun book - Stephenson meshes hardboiled crime with the pacing of a thriller, and he populates the book with his typical nerdy, witty humor. It's not so much a sci-fi book as it is a thriller with a lot of hard science behind it. It is so delightful reading a Stephenson book narrated in the first person!Zodiac was WAY ahead of its time upon publication in 1988. Computers, gadgets, pollutants and the corporations (legally inculpable for complex reasons) that dump them everywhere, you name it, Stephenson foresaw it.
Zodiac is the first book I’ve read by Neal Stephenson, an author I see mentioned fairly often, often with mixed reviews.
The story is set in Boston and is told from the first-person perspective of a character who tries to catch, publicize, and prevent corporations from dumping toxic chemicals into the Boston Harbor.
There’s a decent amount of science, usually explained well enough for the layman to understand, and I never felt like I was reading infodumps.
Since the book is more story-driven than character-driven, it was hard to be too enthusiastic about it if I wasn’t enthusiastic about the story itself.
When he finds on that mysteriously disappears again, he is on a search that puts his career in danger, and then puts his life in danger.More science-based adventure thriller than science fiction, it is still a fun little romp through the Hub of the Universe and my old stomping-ground.[Fulfills several possibilities on my St. Mary's County Library Summer Reading Challenge bingo board.
Fulfills part of several Seasonal Reading Challenge tasks, primarily Task 25.10 - BellaGBear's Task: OLD LOVE AND NEW LOVE.
Another book towards my goal of Read All The Books 2017 Edition - A New Hope]
Zodiac is described as an eco-thriller, which about sums it up, actually!
He's out to get the companies dumping toxic waste into the harbour and the rivers and canals that feed into it.
He has three company logos on the bows of his inflatable raft with its over-size outboard motor, capable of making it fly.
None of those companies is trading anymore.
The man on a crusade has a big mystery, more enemies than he can figure out reasons for, a neglected girl-friend, a freak-show of friends, a knowledge of chemistry, his wits and a Zodiac boat.
To protect the aquatic eco-system or bash big corporations?
At first I was a bit confused since I was expecting a science-fiction novel.
I don't think I've ever read such a fun thriller.
I did feel that maybe you started a bit late to get into the pith of the matter (around page 120 from 307) but that wasn't much of a problem.However, S.T., I wasn't thrilled about you falling back to drugs every time when you're stressed.
It made me a bit sad since a chemist would be the first one to understand how dangerous those drugs are.
Watch out...I have to finish here since I'm sure you have lots of fan-mail to read.
An early variant of Stephenson's 'Snow Crash' writing style. More down-to-earth plot, set in the present rather than the near-future, but just as much fun. It definitely feels rougher and less polished than either Snow Crash or The Diamond Age, but it's great fun. And the description of trying to cross the street in Boston is worth the purchase price.
Zodiac by Neal Stephenson is an environmental thriller. Sangamon Taylor works for an environmental activist group GEE and investigates toxic waste being dumped into Boston Harbour. A fast paced thriller which I enjoyed very much. S.T. is a fun modern day superhero, witty and smart. A very entertaining book.
Omg, I need more! Is there a sequel? Who knew an eco thriller could be so absolutely amazing!
This is a Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas meets 1980's thriller story. I couldn't help comparing Sangamon Taylor to Hunter S. Thompson, they both used whatever substance was at hand to fuel the madness. Sangamon Taylor's madness was fighting uncaring, corporate polluters and who wouldn't want to cheer for that. His methods and plans were equally ridiculous, inspired and undecypherable.  The story itself is loosely held together and mostly a vehicle for Sangamon's character who, although very entertaining throughout the book, gets old and tiresome at the end.A bit too over the top for me to really love.
This was the very last time period during which one could be both a mainstream environmental chemist and a environmentalist acceptable in radical circles.Also, as far as literary technique, the slow build up of the world before the plot events really get going--that was acceptable in the 80s, but in our more rapid paced and text message-driven society, it wouldn't cut it.This probably wouldn't have gotten published today, at least in its current form.So, to judge this work fairly, it must be remembered that what's portrayed is 1988, not the present day, and this was published in 1988.In the protagonist voice, you see the roots of the Stephenson that came later: erudite to the point of nerdy, cynical, not above a funny one-liner here or there.
Главный герой, он же рассказчик — человек знающий, что делает и что делать (мы уже давно для себя поняли, что профессионалы за работой в книгах — это лучше, чем распиздяи за бездельем; особенно если автор знает, о чем говорит; у Пинчона это освежало, здесь — тоже приятно).
у какого-нибудь прости-господи Гришэма или Дика Фрэнсиса, это как-то… ну, мелковато.
Ну и натянуть государство или крупную корпорацию — вообще любимый аттракцион, особенно если изобретательно и с хорошим чувством юмора.Кроме того, эко-террористы — излюбленный тип изгоев и героев (в т.ч.
литературных), если они не идиоты, конечно, а такие, как у Стивенсона (да, я знаю, что в «Зодиаке» они подчеркнуто НЕ-террористы, сути это не меняет).

Really, 2 1/2 stars.If you have never read Neal Stephenson, then you will probably rate this book higher.
But having read a good cross section of his other work, it was hard not to be a tiny bit disappointed.This is not like his other books!
If you can get past that (or are happily ignorant!), and take it for what it is, then this is indeed an entertaining eco-thriller.Everybody needs to cut loose and have some fun once in a while, right?
Even authors.Character development is somewhat lacking, but this is quite a twisty thrill ride.
It also had some good laughs.
Zodiac was a bit muddled at points, with a large, mixed cast of eco-terrorists, corporate drones, scientists, and blue-collar Bostonians dropping in and out of the story, but overall it was a fast, exhilarating thrill-ride -- not too dissimilar from riding an actual zodiac. It was reminiscent in a way to the cable television show Leverage, and if it were the show, it would have broken up nicely into three episodes -- the Swiss Bastards Job in Blue Kills, New Jersey; the Boner Chemicals Job in Buffalo, New York; and the Basco/Biotronics Job Boston, Mass.
I couldn't find what I was looking for on my first visit to the library, so I settled for this because the author had penned one of the other books I was looking for. Glad I picked it up. Written in the first person, this yarn follows the self-proclaimed Toxic Spider-man on his crusade against giant companies who love to pollute the Northeast. A fast read with a sarcastic voice, and some decent science to back it up. Guns, germs and mayhem.
Fast paced, humorous and info-dumpy, this is a through and through Neal Stephenson novel. The only reason for its lesser circulation is that the author was still obscure at the time. It merits its place on the shelf of any Stephenson fan, especially if they enjoyed Snow Crash and Reamde.
As much as topics like genetic engineering and environmental responsibility are important to our society, it takes a really skilled writer to pull off a story that I will enjoy.So in Zodiac, our protagonist, Sangamon Taylor, cruises around in an inflatable motor boat.
This is another issue I take with many thrillers: they don’t realize that, with exposition, less is more.
Zodiac has a satisfactory story, plenty of action, and a nice science-fiction premise involving some scary PCB-eating bacteria.
The characters aren’t the greatest, but he somehow manages to use them and some fascinating science-fiction ideas to create a genuine thriller.
And for anyone else who's a big fan I'd definitely recommend the book, if nothing else to see the basics of his style in a still very formative period.The is the earliest book of his that I've read.
And since the last book I read by him was his most recent REAMDE, it was even more of an obvious chance to observe how his style has developed.but yada yada yada....
right?So ok, let's get past the fandom for a moment.This is a pretty fun book.
Especially in the shadow of S.T.'s dominating personality.As with any Stephenson novel, at its core are some pretty cool and interesting scientifically-based ideas.
True, the Stephenson trait of the ending being more of a stopping point rather than a true finale is here too, but in this shorter work, it's less of an issue.
The fact that protagonist Sangamon Taylor is a smart, funny, asskicking type of eco-activist was a genuine delight and I desperately wish this was a character that Stephenson wrote a sequel on.
The main character and narrator of this book is one awesome dude.
For example, they have a diabolical way of trying to save their own asses, which end up getting them into worse trouble, only after some clever detective work on the protagonist's part.
The suspense wasn't credible, so it didn't work well.
Anyway, I found the most entertaining aspect of the book to be the recreational drug use by the protagonist.
Also, a good biological science fiction aspect was present, and important to the mystery/suspense aspects of the plot.
Getting rid of a colony of bacteria does not destroy the enzyme they possess.
Holy Moly, a Stephenson book with a satisfactory ending!
Well knock me over with a feather!Seriously, though: this is more about the environment, and activism, than technology (speaking in the context of this book as a Neal Stephenson novel.) So it's a little bit less appealing.
He's the Waterhouse character of other Stephenson novels, but slightly less socially awkward.
He's very likable (a comment I often make about Stephenson characters), and also very scary, as he makes clear just how awful (and routine) are the things that big corporations are getting away with.
Uh, read this book, it was good.
The end.
I would say it was easily 60/40 or better in favor of action over science, and I might have given it more stars for more science.
I was just expecting more science, and I don't read a lot of "thrillers." But it's an excellent way to sneak in some science and hopefully get people more alarmed about polluting the environment.
The main character is both intelligent and passionate about the environment, and the reader can kind of join him in his surprise when he runs across people who are either smarter or more passionate than himself.
This is an action packed book about exceptional people.
I really enjoy reading Stephenson because of how he writes exciting stories with lots of nerdy technobabble.
This book, as one of his earlier novels, lacks some of the polish and plausibility of many of his later ones but is still a fun quick read.
Zodiac seems almost autobiographical with his focus on the city of Boston's toxic legacy, following a character Sangamon Taylor who is just out of BU like NS was at the time.
ST acts as a nuisance to big corporate polluters until he discovers a web of crime so deep that he becomes labeled a fugitive terrorist and has to flee Boston.
I was a little worried this would feel dated, but luckily it was pretty much set in the present of when it was written and felt more like a period piece for late '80s eco-terrorism. Not the best Stephenson, but all the elements are there, tons of science, complicated plots with interesting twists and convergences. It just jumped around a bit too quickly. A fight might be over before you even realized it had started. It was hard to gauge character feelings and motivations.
I learned that it could transfer me from my room to literally anywhere and anywhen, and (of course) science fiction was always a source of exploring those niches of time and space where the Golden Age authors cared to take their audience.Now we can see an entirely new constellation of authors, and with them comes a body of work devoted to the science of today, as the stories reflect a knowledge and an appreciation of the scientific explorations and discoveries of the Twenty-first Century.
I read this as part of a bookclub challenge but I am so glad I picked it up. I wasn't sure what to expect from a self-proclaimed eco-thriller but this was a ride from start to finish. I found ST to be a delightful narrator despite his tendency to be an asshole and really felt like I wanted him to win. I liked that he wasn't the perfect detective figuring it all out on his own. I liked that he was forced to work with his allies and that the solution wasn't just magically there.
