https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31812961-the-crime-at-the-noah-s-ark
The Dean St Press edition has a very helpful introduction, which says after writing one novel when younger, Miss Thynne (pronounced "Thin") in middle age wrote 6 detective novels - then never wrote again.
My only criticism is that the denouement (look at me writing French) went on a little too long.Based on this novel I definitely want to read Molly Thynne's other detective novels - & thanks to Dean Street Press's generosity with free offers, I already have most of them downloaded on my Kindle.The Dean Street Press edition also contains a very informative introduction.
Published in 1931, this re-published Golden Age crime mystery, was one of six written by Molly Thynne and the first featuring her chess playing amateur sleuth, Dr Luke Constantine.
Of course, the weather, already bad, turns worse and our central character, author Angus Stuart, finds himself stranded in the snow.
Our characters are stranded by the snow, there are some expensive emeralds, just crying out to be stolen, lots of secrets and, of course, murder.
I would try more by her and I do applaud publishers for bringing so many ‘lost’ Golden Age authors back into print.
Un "murder mistery" de lo más clásico e inocente (aunque haya un asesinato) que se hace muy disfrutable, aunque es cierto que el hecho de haber descubierto al culpable antes de que se revelara en la novela le restó algún punto.Hacia el final del libro es bastante obvio (o me lo pareció) y probablemente en tiempos más modernos se hubiera añadido un segundo giro para sorprender.
De hecho, hay cierto punto en el libro de Thynne que estoy segura fue lo que le dio la idea a Christie para ese misterio de Poirot en concreto."Crimen en la posada Arca de Noé"sigue los cánones del género, con mucho diálogo y muchas pistas falsas.

3,5⭐
-De hecho, cualquiera de nosotros podría ser el asesino -comentó Soames sombríamente-. Es un agradable pensamiento. Novela clásica policiaca en la que los personajes son el punto fuerte. Muy de novelas detectivescas, Crimen en la posada 'Arca de Noé' cuenta con una buena dosis de misterio mientras la acción (y alguno de los diálogos) posee alguna que otra pincelada cómica. Todo ello tiene como resultado un buen final. De todas formas, no me ha entusiasmado como lo han hecho anteriormente otras
Muy de novelas detectivescas, Crimen en la posada 'Arca de Noé' cuenta con una buena dosis de misterio mientras la acción (y alguno de los diálogos) posee alguna que otra pincelada cómica.
De todas formas, no me ha entusiasmado como lo han hecho anteriormente otras novelas de la famosa Golden Age. Eso sí.
Solamente a los amantes de la novela policiaca clásica o si directamente ya has leído (y te han gustado, claro) Diez Negritos y Asesinato en el Orient Express, de Agatha Christie.
3’5 ★★★ «Pues bien, todo lo que puedo decir es que si su tonto policía de pueblo tiene un caso de asesinato entre las manos, ¡adiós a mis esmeraldas!» Reseña en español | Review in English (below)Crimen en la posada «Arca de Noé» es la primera novela protagonizada por el doctor Luke Constantine, un detective aficionado y personaje con gran carisma, creado por Molly Thynne. La novela, escrita en 1931 y perteneciente a la denominada como Golden Age of Detective Fiction, nos narra la historia de un
Lo recomiendo si sois lectores habituales de whodunits y queréis conocer una autora diferente a Agatha Christie pero con muchas influencias en común.––The Crime at the Noah's Ark is the first novel starring Dr. Luke Constantine, an amateur detective and charismatic character, created by Molly Thynne.
As in Murder on the Orient Express, all the characters become suspects of the crimes and everyone will suspect of each other.You can read this and more reviews on my blogThrough a third-person narration from the point of view of Angus Stuart, a young Scottish writer author of a recent bestseller, Molly Thynne characterises a series of hilarious and charismatic characters who represent with great irony the English society of that time.
A group of people meet in a hotel, the Noah’s Ark, by chance and necessity.
The roads are closed by a severe snowstorm and they cannot pursue theirs originals plans.
Gather in this place, they had no choice instead of spend time together.
Different persons with different backgrounds in the early 20th century England lived with one another and had to copy with an unexpected theft and a murder.
This Golden Age Mystery by Molly Thynne is readable and interesting.
This was the first work of Molly Thynne that I read.
It gave me the desire of reading the other ones.
Me ha gustado bastante. Qué buena idea el haber traducido este libro. Un hilo conductor que se va enredando, en ocasiones en exceso, todo hay que decirlo, para dar lugar a la resolución de un asesinato lleno de misterios. Próximamente reseña en https://rincondemarlau.blogspot.com
A twist on the country manor mystery -- in this case, a group of people, mostly unknown to each other, are caught in a December snowstorm in an inn called Noah's Ark. While stuck there in the days leading up to Christmas, there is a jewel robbery & a murder. I liked the fact that while there were some romantic subplots, they remained very much in the background. It was also pleasant to see that the village constable wasn't portrayed as a boobie, even though he required help to catch the culprit(s?)...
Un libro precioso tanto en contenido como en forma. Para todo aquel que sea amante del misterio. Muy recomendable.
Una buena novela de la Golden Age de habitación cerrada. Bien escrita y planteada.Mi reseña: http://elmundodeaylavella.blogspot.co...
Over a stormy, snowbound Christmas, a rural inn known as the Noah's Ark hosts a group of stranded strangers.
Some of these strangers are not quite strangers, however, and before a couple days pass, a murder is committed, prize jewels are stolen, and nobody at the inn gets much sleep as they try to disentangle the facts and deceptions and heists.I found this book a pleasant surprise, full of interesting and dynamic characters, and it includes some pretty delightful moments of humor.
Thynne has a knack for group dynamics and for sticky character descriptions, and I especially enjoyed watching these characters try to figure out what happened.
Molly Thynne fue, en su momento, una autora que cosechó bastante éxito con sus novelas, aunque con el tiempo cayó en el olvido.Como siempre, esta editorial nos da la oportunidad de conocer la obra de autores que, aunque fueron muy reconocidos en vida, con los años han perdido presencia y Molly Thynn me era totalmente desconocida.En esta ocasión me he encontrado con una historia que está bien contada, pero que no ha terminado de engancharme.
Enjoyable Golden Age mystery of people stranded in a snowstorm.
However, the storm put an end to their plans.
I've been in my fair share of whiteouts and have found myself stopping several hours earlier than originally planned.
There is some humor to this book.I didn't completely understand all of the goings on - especially the rope out the window and no prints in the snow (although I think this got cleared up during the conclusion).
With multiple staircases it reminded me much more of a farce.But I think she is an enjoyable writer.
No idea what a "shindy" or "frowst" is.
Although at times , this reminded me of a farce, where characters were running about this old inn and missing the whereabouts of others , I did enjoy it. Definitely had me guessing for quite some time, even though I did have some suspects in mind. I liked the three sleuths and the others were a good assortment . I felt sorry for the village copper having to put up with some of the characters , but all gets sorted in the end
Très sympa ! Un bon polar golen age comme je les aime, et en plus j'avais raison sur mon suspect et ça ça fait plaisir ;p (impossible d'en trouver un avant au moins 70% d'ailleurs et ça j'aime bien). L'intrigue est vraiment sympa, et je lirai d'autres livres de cette auteure, même si le niveau d'anglais était parfois un petit peu au dessus du mien.
Again, not quite so enjoyable the second time around reading this tale of jewel-theft and brutal murder.The writing is good, but the plot suffers from two fairly common faults of the second rank 1930's British detective novel, a sag in the middle (a lot of repetitive and fruitless hunting around the hotel at night) and the overlong wind-up after we know the culprits.Some interesting and well-fleshed-out characters as well as a few stereotypes and a not-overdone love interest.3.5 stars
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
Maybe by the end of all her booms I'll have a favorite.
I'm happy that Dr. Constantine will be in the next two books.
I just hope he is, I liked his character in this book very much.
Even though he was in this one till the end.
I hope that whoever reads this so called review will try this book plus all the others.
This is the first one that Dr Constantine is in, & he is also in the next two books.
(I'm a terrible review person, I just enjoy these period books immensely!)
Me ha encantado leer un libro en el que no hay prisas y no hay tecnología, es una novela de misterio y crímenes sin más pretensiones, y se disfruta en cada página.
No hay momentos de intensidad como en otros libros en los que no esperabas ese giro dramático de los acontecimientos, pero tampoco hay pretensiones, y eso convierte la historia en una lectura muy agradable.
La escritora se toma su tiempo para enredar al lector y presentar a los sospechosos, no es tan predecible como parece al principio...ha sido uno de esos libros de misterio en los que he disfrutado no sólo cuando lo estaba leyendo, sino desde antes, esperando con ilusión los momentos en los que poder leer otro capítulo.
| Although I was still correct in my guesses, the true explanation was clear mostly by the time-honored method of understanding how most authors of the time wrote their characters, not by specific clues or moments in the text.
This is the fourth of Thynne's books I've read, and the others I solved early by the latter method, so this was a bit better.
So this one fell flat a bit, but I do love a British cozy set at Christmas, so I still enjoyed it.
In an atmosphere of fear and suspicion, elderly chess champion Dr Constantine (assisted by young writer Angus Stuart) directs his powers of logic to solving the crime.Nice setting and lots of enjoyable if rather stereotyped characters - from the stuffy upper class Lord to the dotty old ladies and the stolid local policeman - make this novel quite fun to read.
It does get a bit bogged down with repetition in the middle, as the protagonists sit up to watch for the culprit, but the ending is sharp and engaging.Would appeal to lovers of classic crime, and I would read more from Molly Thynne, as I liked her style.
This Christmas setting is pretty well incidental to this: it functions only to give all these people an excuse for being out on the road in a late-December storm.The 4 stars are generous: 3 1/2 would be closer to the mark.
And the ending is far too drawn out: we know whodunnit by about the 75% mark, and the rest of the book is just explanation and other characters belatedly coming forward to reveal what they know.The Kindle version is riddled with typos, not all of which seem to be the OCR type.
The weather is getting bad and Angus Stuart along with a mix of other people end up staying at the Noah's Ark Inn, a couple of nights in to their prolonged stay there is a robbery and a murder!
Dr Constantine, a Mr Soames and Angus Stuart have to assist the local Policeman to sort out what is happening, why it is happening and to stop anything else happening!
(They are not that successful with the latter part of the assistance), Christmas will never seem the same again for this group of people (or indeed the Inn's owner and his staff!)
I enjoyed this book quite a bit, but it isn't quite in four-star territory. The setting of the snowbound inn full of stranded travelers is very atmospheric, and the sprawling old building is almost a character in its own right. The resolution of the two crimes was clever, but the way they finally get the evidence that proves the murderer is guilty isn't really believable. It was an interesting read, though.
Would have made a good short storyThis is a variation on the locked room mystery, in which a robbery and a murder take place in a snow bound country inn. As a short story or a novelette it could have held my interest. But the thing went on and on much too long. The three amateur detectives chased their fellow guests and each other around in the dark till I lost track of who found out what and when and why I should care.
A varied group of people marooned by a snow storm at an inn trying to solve a murder and thief of jewels. A gem from the golden age by an author I never heard of. There is a lot of running up and down stairs and the resolution of the murder isn't the greatest but it's great going back in time and enjoying a fun romp.
Aburridísima novela policíaca que cuenta con una trama una tanto simple pero con la que el autor no termina de hacerse. Es un constante ir de un lado a otro (más bien pasillo adelante y atrás) en el devenir de la historia, sin llegar a ninguna parte.Personajes planos y una historia sin intensidad alguna.
Fairly typical "snowed in" mystery where none of the suspects can get away nor can Scotland Yard get in. I found it quite easy to figure out but that didn't make it any less enjoyable. Molly Thynne writes beautifully and I can forgive some shortfall in the plot because of that.
