https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90666.In_the_American_Grain
A short note for those who may have an interest ::William Carlos Williams’ 1925 essay collection ought to be read as supplementary by those reading William T Vollmann’s Seven Dreams: A Book of North American Landscapes.
And more than the mere sweep collected in this slim volume, and Williams’ concern with the what and wherefore of what being american is all about, are his stylistic choices, mimicking the subject in its own voice, using the subject’s own voice, writing from and out of the source documents themselves.
Williams’ choices of style, form, and voice should be familiar to Vollmann readers.
But they knew they lied—the blood-smell proof."  Those who struggle with the separation of "author" from "text", or, more specifically, the distance between the "ideas" and "views" of an author, and those in his texts, may have problems with this book (and a brief online search demonstrates this).
This is written in the book, can we criticise WCW for being a misogynist?
Not one to "wield her beauty as a scepter." It is a brilliant opportunity." Can we claim anything about WCW's "beliefs" from this book?
No idea why I bothered to write that, nor what I am rambling about.
Williams approaches his subjects, who range from Viking cast-out Eric the Red, through Columbus and Daniel Boone and finishing up with a brief sketch of Abraham Lincoln, from a variety of angles, including quotations from primary sources, real or imaginary debates between contemporary (1920s) speakers, fictionalized monologues in the style of the subject's time and place, and poetic dissertations on the ongoing demons of our New World society.I know a common opinion is that the "point" of a "review" is to give an impression of whether one liked a book or not.
(It is amusing when Williams dismisses the Augustan elegancies of an 18th century account of Daniel Boone as 'silly language'--his own quasi-Nietzschean vitalist rhapsodies are now just as dated as those pompous periods of Johnsonese.) Williams meditates on what are to him key episodes and figures in the New World's enthopsychic secret history, from Eric the Red to Lincoln.
I like it when poets riff on incidents of history; they can compress a pithy essence better than the less speculative historians.
Boone was not of 'that riff-raff of hunters and Indian killers among which destiny had thrown him--the man of border foray--a link between savage and settler.'6.
im not sure why i thought that the ezra and co.'s racism wouldnt rub off on WCW but jeez, even as one of his devotees, i cant stand this.i get that WCW was always self-conscious about his status as the modernist that got left behind, and feels ashamed that he is not able to pull from a well of cultural mythology like joyce or pound can so he feels the need to create one, this is why he dwells needlessly on his six weeks in paris...
does it need to claim that slaves were brought over on ships to america just like everyone else?
Maybe he respects the Spaniards more, for at least attempting to see the "flower" of the New World, its glories and pleasures, whereas the Puritans, who similarly annihilated indigenous people and plundered the land as their own, maintained their own littleness and refused to be seduced, and instead turned inward.The idea of the book is great: to pick out elements of history to reform, to recreate, but to understand for the first time.
There are some good things to quote here:Page 69: "Is it merely in a book?
In one letter, among other things, she said that no one could *imagine* what it meant to a girl to lose her virginity.
I probably missed the point of a lot of this, which Williams assures me is part of what it means to be an american, but other passages stopped me cold, ~90 years after its first publication and in the midst of the current political cluster****: "A most confusing thing in American history, as we read it, is the nearly universal lack of scale," and, "morals affect the food, and the food the bone..." There is a lot here that struck me as sort of a preface for later American writing, arguing (or pleading?) for an organic place-based consciousness, rather than denying our own location and history.
Dr. Williams has some ideas about the inherited psychological character of the American people: as you might guess, the Puritans have ruined us all.
Anyway, this is an interesting look at American history by a poet with a distinctly heterodox view, and who plays around with some well-known, and some other lesser known characters in building his version of the myth.
Look it up!
"La mezquindad de nuestra historia, nuestra estupidez, nuestra pereza de espíritu, la falsedad de nuestras notas históricas, la completa pérdida de los objetivos. Abocada al disparate, la tenacidad con la que el temor inspira leyes y costumbres -la supresión de la magnífica danza del maíz de los Chippewas, símbolo del proceso generativo- como si la moral sólo pudiera tener un carácter... hasta, en la confusión, nada resta del gran Nuevo Mundo Americano sino el recuerdo del indio"
It seems silly to assign stars to these sorts of books—these Important Monuments of Culture—as though my or anyone's assessment that "it was amazing" has any meaning. At any rate, I found the book difficult, opaque, unsettling, and disturbing on several levels. And utterly unlike anything else I have ever read. I will be pondering it for a long time.
"that they had seen a tern"
The inversion of a Gothic Calvin.") Williams can be difficult to parse at times, and I admit to getting lost now and then while reading this book, but if you slow down, take a deep breath, and concentrate, you can work through most of the thickets.
Some standouts were the Eric the Red chapter and those on Daniel Boone, Aaron Burr, Cortez, and DeSoto.
The book reminded me some of William Vollmann's Seven Dreams series (I'm a huge fan of his), and I wouldn't be surprised if he took some inspiration from it.
Observations on earliest explorers are perhaps the most striking as they deftly weave together Williams' berserk commentary and lengthy selections from original sources such as the journal of Columbus.
His revisions of Poe, Aaron Burr, Washington & Lincoln are also engaging while his skreeds against the Puritans go on a bit too long and are, if you've encountered Williams before, predictable.
It's also here where he backs away from incorporating original sources and his method of putting the book together seems to get lost.
Using the same premise as Borges in his A Universal History of Iniquity, Williams here attempts to shed new light on history by writing short, fiction-esque accounts of historical topics which have fallen into cliché.
the strange phosphorus of the life, nameless under an old misappellation."Williams, like Borges, wants to rewrite history, to participate in it in some way.
He writes short fictions in styles to match the period; a tale about Lief Ericson is in mystic prose-poetry, Columbus's story is written in the tense, descriptive style of a 15th century legal document.Because WCW has a genuine, almost naïve interest in the subjects he wishes to explore, his volume succeeds.
What it lacks as a book, it makes up in other ways.
It is to his very great credit that when he can't exactly answer the question, he doesn't guess or cheat...
he feels towards an answer, goes as far as the language will take him, leaving us with a sort of impressionist historical criticism that will mean different things to different people and at different stages of life in the reader.
This book is a project, art attempting in an essential way to be something more than play.
I guess this book did not become the foundation of anything, but maybe it still could be.
I'll confess that the book didn't capture me as much as I had hoped.
Too much jumbled stream of consciousness about American history for me, and maybe the biggest fans of the book are ones with deep revisionist opinions about American history.
I appreciate the thrust behind the book; i.e. challenge your biases and perceptions about legendary events and people, and don't let the myths overtake reality.
But it is a book that cried out for an editor both to trim down his most expansive detours and demand elaboration on some of his seemingly random analogies.
This is a difficult to read and powerful book.
It addresses the question of what it means to "be" American or to "be" native.
Think of it this way: from the time that the Americas were discovered by Europeans to present, our existence on this side of the ocean has been one of transplantation, not adaptation.
What does it mean to be an American?
What is the American spirit, the American Dream?
WCW pulls no punches here and you get a blunt and critical assessment of American history from before colonization to the (then) present.
He do America in different voices.
Here we have WCW's examination of the American character from Erik the Red to Abraham Lincoln, Williams channels many voices to tell their stories.
Each piece written in a style appropriate to the subject matter.
WCW is in fine modernist mettle here, requiring careful and slow reading if you want to unpack all that's on the page.
He's at his best when passionate, either in his love for his subject (Poe, Père Sebastian Rasles) or his utter contempt (Cotton Mather).
It's not long, just under 250 pages, but there's much to digest.
I almost gave it 5 stars but you get the idea.
We have here an American History lesson book about 200 pages from an American/New Jersey doctor.
A must read for poets and prosewriters alike.
A classic in every word.
The NY Times called it one of200 most influencal books of ALL TIME.
His essays begin From Lief Erickson toAbraham Lincoln, these scetches are American, we are American, etc.even though we(our ancestors) immigranted from old Europe 1600-1920.
Williams wrote most it in the NY Public Library.
His secretary inRutherford tyuped most of it.
jsut an old Royal typewriter.
American history as seen through the eyes of a major American poet.
A patchwork of episodes, beginning with Red Eric, the discovery of the Indies, the destruction of Tenochtitlan, Ponce de Leon, the voyage of the Mayflower, Cotton Mather and the Salem witch trials, Daniel Boone and the discovery of Kentucky, Poor Richard, Aaron Burr, Poe, and Lincoln.
Even though the episodes are presented in chronological order, Williams doesn’t provide any historical context that would frame each episode for the reader.
If he had, it would have made a more cohesive whole.
But I don’t think this was an oversight.
I would describe it as poetic license.
Couple good turns of phrase, but the whole project seemed weighted down with overly ornate language and Williams' tendency to valorize whoever it was he happened to be writing about.
Some sources have commented on the extent to which he was critical of colonialism within this text, but this attitude tends to be rare (if a reader can find it at all).
But politics aside, there's little surprise Williams didn't get the renown of so many other Modernists.
All the elements are in place, but the references aren't integrated as slyly as others and the language tends to flit about like a boxer more sure of his footwork than his ability to land a punch.
The syntax and meaning-making in this 'classic' 1925 collection of American essays by the early 20th C poet Wm Carlos Wms was very difficult, so I did not make it all the way through. It presupposed a huge familiarity with early American history, grammar and thought forms.It conveyed the writer's ambivalence about savagery as an imperative in the business of territorial dominance. Hard to comprehend how the author, a poet, and, incidentally, a physician,could have sustained such polarizing emotions.
A unique take on the American character. Takes an expansive view of "America"--including a discussion of the Spanish conquest of America, which reminds me of Octavio Paz's argument that North and Latin America are separated by different religious worldviews (Catholic and Protestant). Williams is at his best in criticizing the Puritan origin of the United States and how it has contributed to a culture of fear (best expressed through the utiliatrianism of Benjamin Franklin)
I read this before I read Williams' "Paterson." I appreciated "In the American Grain" because it is Williams seeking to establish his American voice through the revision of American history. It rewrites the stories of (as Williams might like to declare) America's unsung - or not-quite-as-sung - American heroes, including Daniel Boone and Edgar Allen Poe. It's tedious, but it also reflects Williams' progression toward his later prose and poetry in "Paterson."
"History must stay open, it is all humanity. Are lives to be twisted forcibly about events, the mere accidents of geography and climate?It is an obscenity which few escape -- save at the hands of the stylist, literature, in which alone humanity is protected against tyrannous designs." fulfills this project quite nobly, I'd say.
took me a while because i was savoring the hell out of it. not exactly essays, not exactly fiction, sort of like prose poems, sort of not, but each piece written in a style appropriate to the subject, a pivotal character in the early history of america, from eric the red to cortez to aaron burr to poe to lincoln. in sum an un-categorizable prism on the main character of america.
This is probably one of the most thought provoking books I've ever read. William Carlos Williams writes about the Colonization of the New World with incredibly lyrical prose that always contain layer upon layer of meaning. This book has truly changed the way I think about the world and is a must read.
I read this years ago, but it remains one of my favorites. His take on the malignancy of the Puritan ethic is especially relevant in today's political climate, and illuminates its pernicious effect on the evolution of American culture.
Mostly brilliant series of essays on the formation of American culture. Published in 1925 and infused with Modernist flair. Some parts are dull, but there is something intriguing if not ingenious about reading a fictionalized journal of Sir Walter Raleigh that feels like The Waste Land.
Those who love Williams as a poet should read his fascinating takes on received history. Great, great stuff.
