https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1604523.Capricornia
When I saw it in Dymocks as an audio book and had a book voucher to spend, I didn’t hesitate, and I’ve been listening to it in the car on the way to work for weeks now, because it’s a long book, 23 hours listening time on 20 CDs.Written early in the 1930s but not published till just before World War Ii, Capricornia is mostly set in the interwar years, depicting life in the Northern Territory through the story of successive generations of families both black and white.
A telling tale that has the guts to put on paper the truly pathetic way the government and citizens of Australia treated them, while countries like Canada and the United States bury this aspect of their country's past (and present).It is no wonder that Herbert won an award for this story, as it touches on so many of the key aspects of rural Australian life, while keeping the Australian purity of the language, flora, fauna, and peoples.
Written in its early years, Herbert gathers enough of the Australian northern area to show just how the rurals lived, while life in Victoria and the National Capital Region progress with ease.
An unpleasant book, but I think important to read, for the way that people thought then. Few white writers now could be that honest about prejudice. They can condemn it with sickeningly violent examples, but seem to miss their own complicity, or avoid the hypocrisy that nurtured its existence in the first place. Herbert the author faces it head on, as an unapologetic white man of those times, and his appropriation of the voices of others is racist in itself. But he has laid it out for all to see and for this we can thank him.
Even the narrative follows a Dickensian format - except for the very beginning: various scenes involving minor characters (clowns in the Shakespearean sense) developing the main theme of inequality of the two races, with one story becoming the dominant in the 2nd half of the book & supplying the dramatic conclusion.
All that was missing was the page turning introduction.The main premise is the distinction and ultimate acceptance (if the region is to develop) of reducing the difference between European and Indigenous tribes and embracing the strengths of both, and the outcome of an ever increasing half-caste population.
Herbert considers the half-castes - the "New Men" that will make the place a strong and noble region.
It is a very real look at the history of Australia, and how the North was very different to the South.If you don't know Australia, I can try to sum up the differences for you.
And there is the underlying mystery - where is Mark Shillingsworth?I thought Capricornia was a fantastic novel and felt a little shocked by the end (in hindsight I think I should have seen it coming!).
It is an important piece of Australian history that we should remember, although I have to agree with the following line from the novel : How could anyone understand the ways of Capricornia unless he lived there?
An Australian classic that took on a challenging view on the treatment Aborigines received by the invading whites.
The first third of the book was a bit slow as author sets up the world of Capricornia; beginning with the first exploration until our main protagonist, Norman Shillingsworth, was born.
Despite its slow beginning, author shows his passion for the Aborigine people and was very clear in his comments how unjust the Aborigines have been treated (like animals).
In fact, the way they have deteriorated as a people is because of the treatment they have received from the invading ‘civilisation’.
Norman Shillingsworth is born of a white father and an Aborigine mother.
I've read this twice and still can't believe it's not rated as one of the best books ever. Guess that's what personal taste is all about. For me every paragraph is gripping, entertaining, informative, genius... etc. Australian true history is a romp. Who needs fantasy when you such a colourful history. Australia has yet to come to terms with its indigenous people and culture. This should be on every Aussie's read list.
An uncomfortable read which must have been shocking in its day for its honesty about race relations and the abuse of Aboriginals and immigrant labour by white Australians in the deep north. The story is engaging and humorous at times (particularly its treatment of the police and legal system) but ultimately ends tragically.
Awful book. I was forced to read this for class and suffered through its racist and sexist violence. This was written by an evil white supremacist and misogynist. Of course then it's an Australian classic and never been out of print. A truly disgusting book with no redeeming features
Unwieldly and rough as guts and a punch in the guts to knock the wind out of the sails of the whitewashed version of Australian history. Kick 'em in the ribs too, Xavier. Couldn'ta said it better.
There are many interesting and unique scenarios that don't feel like cliches, sa Herbert explores the relationships between Aborigines and white Australians.
The book gave me a deeper understanding of Australian culture and environment, and I recognized many of the things Herbert was talking about.Capricornia follows several characters over multiple decades, constantly changing the point of view.
The functions of trains and ships are explained in great detail, but when one character spends several months with Aboriginals, his whole experience is summed up in a few vague sentences.I enjoyed reading Capricornia, but I wasn't thrilled by it.
I was constantly wishing for the book to end soon.
a very big book its use of certain words appropriate to when it was written in the thirties difficult but gripping and has the full verses of waltzing matilda no more dardaddardar .
terrific about aboriginal life in the outback and city
A classic of immense vitality and energy befitting its subject.
Review title: Herbert writes like Australia's Dickens, reads like its Dos PassosI bought this book cold while I was working in Melbourne, Australia, and found I had picked up a classic.
This mix drives a powerful racism that Herbert addresses with a bold realism, powerful dialogue, and direct description that echos John Dos Passos USA trilogy written about the same time.Norman Shillingsworth, the central character through most of the story, is a half-caste whose dead mother was an aborigine and whose white father abandoned him to be raised by an uncle when he fled the country leaving behind a pile of debt, a failed business, and the murder of a Chinese store owner.
This novel is an Australian classic, and deservedly so - epic in outlook, Dickensian in the best senses of that word, and forward looking for its time, Capricornia is not only a moral tale for the citizens of Australia, it is one of the great books about the "Deep North" of this continent.Capricornia is the inter-generational tale of the extended Shillingsworth family, and their life in Capricornia, a fictional area of what is recognisably the Northern Territory of Australia (Herbert also fictionalizes the names of the cities in the South - Batman for Melbourne, Flinders for Sydney and Churchton for Adelaide).
Na jejich osudech, osudech jejich potomků, sousedů, přátel i nepřátel, se před námi rozvíjí příběh tropické Austrálie a její zaostalosti, rasové nesnášenlivosti a příkoří, o chybách, nehodách a šťastných náhodách, které tvoří život.Přestože působí autorův tón při popisování neradostných životních osudů postav poněkud odtažitě, právě tento odstup přiměje čtenáře se zamyslet, jak by asi vypadal jeho život podobně shrnutý do jedné kapitoly.
Na rozdíl od ostatních protagonistů se v příběhu vyskytuje pouze sporadicky a o jeho životě nevíme prakticky nic, ale je to právě jeho hlas, který je hlavním nositelem poselství románu a vyjadřuje autorovy názory k rasové problematice Austrálie.
I really enjoyed this book and read it just after visiting Darwin, a city I have visited several times.
On the one hand the novel is a rattling good tale of life on the frontier of the Top End of Australia, and on the other, it is an expose of the treatment of the indigenous people and those of mixed race by the whites, who saw themselves as their superiors in every way.Although the place names are disguised, the localities are clear to anyone who has travelled in that part of the country.
It was tough going in places, but then all of a sudden the action would start again and it would be hard to put down for a while.Taking into account the era in which the book was written, I was extremely surprised by the positive light in which indigenous Australians were portrayed.
It is easy to imagine the controversy this would have caused among the mainstream at the time the book was published.Apart from indigenous rights, the book also, at times, makes some interesting political statements as well as thinly veiled criticism of the Australian Public Service.
Read while I was visiting northern Queensland, this book provided a shocking picture of the early years of settlement, and particularly the brutal treatment of aboriginals, and the rough tough life on the frontier. The book was slow to warm up, often rambling, had many side narratives, peopled by stereotyped characters that never evolved (even down to Dickenesque character names), and told by a detached narrator. Nevertheless. I became entirely absorbed by the narrative arc in the second half of the book. Brought 'The Grapes of Wrath' to mind though it was originally published a year before that classic.
A long, funny, sad, fascinating yarn.
It's hard not to compare it to The Thornbirds for sheer length and scope and belovedness, and I have to give credit to Herbert - his treatment of race, while not entirely unproblematic, is surprisingly progressive and generous for the time when this was written.
Unlike the beautiful and somewhat silly (let's be honest) Thornbirds, in this story the complicated mix of Aborigines, immigrants, and white Australians is not only not ignored but is actually the central theme.
I can see why it's earned it's place in the Australian canon.
(Also I love his prose!
This is an important and influential book which starts off with a clear, piercing voice. The plight of the aboriginies of Australia and their human worth was not high on any agenda when this book was written. As the story progresses it disintegrates. There is no clear direction and there seems to be no point. It's a book everyone should read, it's ashame the storyline isn't more tightly and interestingly woven.
I don't know what to say about this book, other than it was hard work to get through, so much so that I couldn't finish it. On the hole I found it a very interesting story as Australian history is something I don't know a lot about. The relationship between white people and the Aborigines was also interesting. But it was just to much of a heavy read for me. I would recommend for any one who is interested in Australia and it's history.
Unbelievably unappealing portrate of the settlement of australia. But I got into it and finished despite the almost complete lack of appealing charcters even 10 hours into the book. Racism, eletism and entitlement are diseases. Gave up on it after 18 hours of listening. I thought that the two central characters might begin to build a more apealing world, but when he hit her I just threw in the towel
Įdomi nuotykių knyga apie Australiją. Verta paskaityti, norintiems susipažinti su Australijos istorija. Knyga atspindi to krašto XX a. pradžios realijas, apie kurias sudėtinga kalbėti: rasizmą, metisų engimą, aborigenų išnaudojimą, visuomenės kvailumą, politinės sistemos spragas ir pan. Nagrinėdamas šias temas, autorius naudoja ironiją. Su knyga „Australija“ filmas neturi daug bendro, knyga daug įdomesnė.
This novel seems influenced by The Grapes of Wrath; its comparable to Catch 22 with its huge cast and removed, bemused narrator while it seems to have influenced Tim Winton’s colloquial humour and affection for the bush rascal. Long patches of crude sermonising in the middle. It seems as if he ran out of puff. But he comes back compellingly. The other writer he reminds me of is Cormac McCarthy, because of the passion for the landscape that they share and the harshness.
Awesome tale for anyone not familiar with Australia, great insights into the history of this great nation. Fascinating read for me. Perhaps the story could have been more tightly told; it does become tedious a bit somewhere in the middle, but still a great read! Highly recommend it for anyone interested in people and culture.
A very long, very depressing look at the Aussie Frontier as told through the eyes of several characters. The characters' stories are interwoven throughout the novel which spans several generations. I liked that it was a look at the early conditions of Australia and didn't hide the treatment of the poor Whites nor of the Aboriginals by the settlers.
Dickensian! A most enjoyable read, and probably should be read by pretty much anyone Australian or living in Australia. Heaps of characters, most of them just there to get the author's ideas out, which is fine: he has some ideas worth considering.
A slightly forgotten Australian classic. One of those sweeping historical epics, this time covering the development (in the white blokes' way) of Australia's north. Some may have a problem with the now considered racist terms used but over all it seems to capture the times well.
