https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21853636-all-the-rage
This book is about the brutal reality of what it’s like to be a teenage girl.
It’s about how the voices and opinions of young girls are silenced, even by the “good guys”.
It’s about what no one talks about; what happens to survivors of rape.
You’re not the girl that thing, that terrible thing happened to.
Being silenced by others, in ways so minute and insidious that you don’t even realize it’s happening.
I couldn’t tell, and at that point, I didn’t really care.
This book shows you what happens when you speak up.
You know all the ways you can kill a girl? God, there are so many. This story... these characters... those words... Courtney Summers has done it again.I don't think, on the whole, I am a person who is afraid of much. I'd even go so far as to say I have a somewhat reckless, risk-taking personality at times. But I am scared of a few things... you want to know what one of my biggest fears is? Telling the truth and having no one believe me. Honestly, I think that's truly terrifying. Knowing you're
That's the first reason this book affected me so much.What I mentioned above is a running theme behind the scenes of this story, but Summers incorporates many other elements that she excels at.
…how can you put something so golden, a girl who can barely open her eyes or her mouth - how can you put something like that in front of them and expect them to be better people?Summers' writing improves with every book she releases, writing scenes with words that manage to somehow be beautiful and horrific at the same time.
I just finished this and, oh my book, I need to breathe, I need to breathe, I need to breathe... he covers her mouth.   That’s how you get a girl to stop crying; you cover her mouth until the sound dies against your palm. Everything this girl has been through – what she’s going through, throughout the story – scared me. I know how it can feel like for someone to be bullied in school and picked at, having lived it myself when I was in middle school, but middle school and high school are two diffe
So much unfairness.This was my first book by Courtney Summers and I must confess I never would have picked it up if it weren’t for the beautiful reviews on Goodreads praising this novel like crazy and making me feel like not reading it would be a sin.
I wasn’t sure what to think of him at first ‘‘glance’’, since Romy didn’t either (that’s how related to the character I was), but he treated her like she was the only girl in the world for him, so I couldn’t help but succumb to his charms, too…It makes me so genuinely happy to know that I’ve discovered a new gem of an author.
Unpopular opinion time: The blurb of this book says The sheriff’s son, Kellan Turner, is not the golden boy everyone thinks he is, and Romy Grey knows that for a fact.The thing is....we never meet Kellan Turner in this book.The book starts after Kellan Turner rapes Romy. (That is not a spoiler) This is the after effects of Romy's story. It begins with her using her nail polish and lipstick as armor against the hate from the small town that she lives throws at her. She accused the sheriff's preci
The blurb of this book says The sheriff’s son, Kellan Turner, is not the golden boy everyone thinks he is, and Romy Grey knows that for a fact.The thing is....we never meet Kellan Turner in this book.The book starts after Kellan Turner rapes Romy.
I kept thinking things would clear up later in the book but for me it never really did.The main character Romy.
Every-time she would have something bad happen it seemed like she just made things worse for herself.
I'm not.The story line of a girl being shunned for accusing a popular boy of rape.
:::5 Stars::: Utterly gripping!Even better than expected and, after loving Some Girls Are, my expectations were set pretty damn high. There are writers who tell stories, and then there are those who give their stories a pulse. All The Rage felt alive, and every breath it took was jagged, labored, and suspenseful.   You know all the ways there are to kill a girl? I do.  Courtney Summers knows how to captivate her readers by constructing some of the most flawed characters I’ve come across and bold
I’ve grown smitten with this author’s unique prose and find myself inhaling her words as easily as air.The subject matter in this book is dark and intense, dealing largely with rape, abuse, bullying, and all the messy aftermaths.
These areas, although vivid and intense, are handled with taste.Romy’s anguish was so incredibly raw and real, I felt like I’d somehow swallowed some of it.
She suffered a gut-wrentching tragedy and is forced to keep it buried inside—festering and intensifying—because no one has the decency or courage to believe her.
▪  Plot: Surrounds a young girl who quietly suffers a tragedy until she can no longer be silenced.
Guys, I do not know how or why or for how long it will last, but ALL THE RAGE is currently $2.99 on all ebook platforms and if you want to show it some love and/or help spread the word about it, I'd appreciate it more than I can say! It's a steal of a price, so pick it up while you can! ❤AMAZON: https://www.amazon.com/All-Rage-Court...AMAZON CANADA https://www.amazon.ca/All-Rage-Courtn...KOBO https://www.kobo.com/ca/en/ebook/all-...NOOK http://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/all-t...ITUNES https://itunes.apple.com/us/book/all-...
Speak is a book I personally think should be required high school reading while ATR is a novel I could have gone without reading.
which made me think of that episode of New Girl where Schmidt pretends to be related to Mitt Romney, so I had a hard time saying her name or taking it seriously throughout the book.
No seriously, it's just a book about Romy sometimes going to school, sometimes going to work, and most the time just being rude.
Romney is bullied at school-plot builds builds builds- then falls flat.
This book put feelings into words that I’ve struggled with since I was a victim.
I haven’t read a book with such an honest and important portrayal of these issues since Laurie Halse Anderon’s Speak.
It can help victims cope and put things to words, it can help others sympathize and understand, and it could help people make the movement towards fixing these issues.
This book is an ugly, painfully honest portrayal of the struggles of more women than we can ever know, but maybe if people see the stark reality, we can make it better.
Trigger Warning: Rape My finger has hovered over the delete button for a few minutes now, and decided to leave that warning, despite the fact that my attacker gave me no such courtesy. I am a statistic. I am a percentage. I am a warning story. “When I was sixteen I was raped.” Put like that, it sounds really simple doesn’t it? I woke up one morning an innocent girl who had never been, and the next I was a girl who had been. Raped. How can five letters change your entire life? In every possible
To press against those moments that still feel like they own me, in a way, sometimes.
I didn’t rage reading this book, I broke.
I can outrun the boy in the truck bed and all the boys that made themselves in his likeness just because they could, just because no one said they couldn’t…This was one of the hardest books I have ever read.
I know that it feels like it needs to hide in the shadows where no one can see it.
I know what it feels like to be ashamed that this happened to me BUT I SHOULDN’T.
She reveals naked ugly truths (thanks for the term, Aunt CoHo) about people in her stories with assertion and undeniable truthfulness and for these things; my salute goes to her (always).
In retrospect, she IS a survivor and even though there weren’t real resolutions to the conflicts in the story like most Summers books, it ends with a tiny sliver of hope to the characters and to the reader and that little hope is all it really takes to make us believe that the good could still prevail.
She has a way of dissecting her characters until you can't help but feel just as lost, just as completely broken as they are.
This is not the book you pick up when you want a light read, or even just a diversion.
It's not the kind of novel where you will connect with the character in the way one might expect.
As expected - having read Summers' books before - the ending is somewhat open ended, though full of hope.
But that's the thing with her books, you need to know her characters to be okay, so these somewhat open endings, while appreciatively realistic, can feel very abrupt.
It is Romy's story and it tore my heart out, made me feel so very sad and like the title says full of rage.Romy is....a young woman hardly more than a child...working class poor....a social pariah....bullied by the girls and harassed by the boys....has lost all her friends....wants to love but feels she is a shell.....suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder....likely has a horrible future.....WAS RAPED AND NOT BELIEVEDA book so very powerful, realistic, gritty and raw.
An important story that should not be lost among others.
Reach out and help your hurt sisters and brothers.
You get all sad and moved because it's a book about a rape victim (or cancer kids) and feel like you have to like it despite its flat characters and confusing narrative.Nice Natalie: The characters weren't flat!Cynical Natalie: I thought you weren't getting involved?Nice Natalie: Yeah, but I'm not going to sit here and let you bash it like that.
(Cynical Natalie: Kitty's grown teeth) We've no right to dictate how a rape victim should react or feel, but I thought Romy was a very good representation of someone trying to pick up the pieces in a world where no one believes her.
want more awesomeness by courtney summers? do yourselves a favor and  check out sadie   Essential Items When Reading All the Rage: 1. One stress ball (two could work, but you'll need your other hand to flip pages. Duh.) - This book will make you so angry at how horrible some people can be. You'll want to scream, kick a brick, bite the head off a gummy bear... You get my point. The stress ball will help during these moments.2. A box of tissues - I don't know about the next guy, but this book mad
You'll cry because you're going to want the best for the main character, but maybe she doesn't always get it.
You're going to need a good place to lie down and think about life and how much you loved this book.
Romy's been through (and is still going through) a lot of shit in her life, and she feels that she believes what the people say: that she'd be better off dead.
You're not going to love all of the characters in this book.
They're attentive to Romy, and they really do want what's best for her.
A sweet romance--check.
3.5 stars but rounded up to four because this book doesn't deserve less than 4. Honestly, I'm still confused and it was a little meh but it was also powerful and left me a little shook.Rtc maybe but honestly my feelings are just akdhskbdksd.《》《》《》《》《》《》《》《》《》《》《》I can't believe I haven't read every Courtney Summers book out there. I'm a fake fan. :((BUT THAT'S GOING TO CHANGE. Buddy read with an exasperated mother
wow, im destroyed. this is fantastic. RTC ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it's time for a courtney summer's marathon reread, folks, i can't wait to get my heart punched again by ms. summers buddy read  with my #1 contemp trash
This review was also posted on HER BOOK THOUGHTS. "...and how do you get a girl to stop crying?You cover her mouth."I won't tell you anything about this story because I want you guys to have the whole experience for yourself. BUT. I would tell you how this story made me feel.I am no wordsmith and this was one of those times that I wished I was so I can tell you guys how fantastic this book was for me. This freaking ripped my heart out in tiny pieces and then it wasn't still satisfied so it stomp
I would tell you how this story made me feel.I am no wordsmith and this was one of those times that I wished I was so I can tell you guys how fantastic this book was for me.
This freaking ripped my heart out in tiny pieces and then it wasn't still satisfied so it stomped at it so many times after that.This book made me angry for a lot of reasons.
The people, God. I can't believe this thing is happening right now but I sort of do, too, because that's how messed-up this world is today.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to St. Martin's Press and NetGalley.) “His hands are everywhere and he’s a vicious weight on top of her that she can’t breathe against so she cries instead, and how do you get a girl to stop crying?You cover her mouth.” I have to say that this book is aptly named; because boy did I feel rage!I felt so sorry and angry and frustrated for poor Romy in this story. Not only had she gone through one of the most
I have to say that this book is aptly named; because boy did I feel rage!I felt so sorry and angry and frustrated for poor Romy in this story.
At every turn it seemed like someone was doing or saying something unnecessarily cruel to poor Romy, and the way things were held against her, the way she was bullied, and the way she was generally treated like trash just really annoyed me.
When all you can do is watch, you see. Well, I begrudgingly give this five stars....Oh, come on. Yeah the hell right. Did anyone really expect me to give this any less than a bajillion stars? I am still awaiting the day I'll pick up a Courtney Summers novel and not be floored by her simple words that portray deep, meaningful messages so many authors gloss over today. And even if that day comes? I know to the bottom of my soul, even if the story isn't for me, I will still write her name, like, t
I know to the bottom of my soul, even if the story isn't for me, I will still write her name, like, ten times in my review because that's just what I do with my two favorite authors and because her words will never cease to have an impact on me.
In Summers's previous works, we see lots of broken girls who don't quite know how to handle what they're going through, what they feel.
And while this book alone won't heal the life-threatening wound that is rape culture, it might hopefully open people's eyes.I am glad that All the Rage shies away from romanticising the harsh reality of rape and the trauma and struggle it leaves behind in a world that blames a rape victim for being raped in the first place.
Her stories are ugly because they are true, they hurt because they are brave, they are important because they are powerful and give a voice to so many that have gone unheard before.While I enjoy cute, funny, feelgood YA, my favourite books in this genre are those that empower you.
Finally a YA novel worth reading!Very angry, very painful, very real look at the current rape culture and victim blaming.
But don't get me wrong - I didn't want to actually smash it to a million pieces; rather, I wanted to go inside the book and punch several awful characters many, many times due to how disgusting and sickening their narrow-minded mentalities were.
And All the Rage definitely makes all this more than just a statistic to people who feel this problem is far away from them, because of the honest, angry, and genuine way it was written, portraying this awful reality in the rawest way possible.
4.5 Stars!!  “You know all the ways you can kill a girl?God, there are so many.”  This book is about life and how hard is nowadays to be a teenage girl, about society and last, but not least about rape and how survivors of rape are struggling to move on, to accept they deserved more, to accept they are more than a victim. Like many realistic fiction novels this is a read you are not supposed to enjoy. It supposed to open your eyes, to make you realize how society really is, how is easier to beli
On top of that, you are bullied because you were brave enough to speak out against rape, you are bullied because THEY think you don’t have the right to live (no like them) because you are a 'LIAR', because you are just a girl who 'wants attention'.
How can you learn again how to act, think, feel and trust after everything was stolen from you – your right to choose, your innocence, your voice.Romy Grey is a 17 years old who knows what is like to be seen like a liar, a girl who lost her friends and not only, just because she ‘dared’ to speak the truth.
It would have been nice to get a bit more resolution on that front.I also wasn't expecting the book to take the turn that it did, and it ended up being more of a mystery novel than anything, which I found interesting.
As a reader, I like to get the whole picture of what I'm reading, at least by the end of the book.
I still felt like I was in the dark about some important plot points, and the explanations were a bit too foggy for me to be satisfied.
This book is like bitter medicine for all the easy, comforting lies we tell ourselves.
Lies like:She really shouldn’t dress like that.Some girls are just asking for it.She led him on.She wanted it, really.Why else would she have been at a frat party at night?
They give us all the illusion that rape is something that we can control, if only we act, think, speak, dress, and comport ourselves in a certain way.
And if a girl gets raped, it’s so easy to blame her, to think that she could have prevented it.
Rather, it is a chilling, immersive first person account of a girl who experiences rape and everything that happens in the after.
In our world, in our time, tackling real world issues and dilemmas.But this book, I realized, was somehow too realistic, at least for me.
The wrong people are given power 85% of the time and it sucks.
This is exactly what I was talking about when I said there will be people who will stand by you and care for you in this situation, because as you play Max, you'll be able to stand by Kate--the victim in question--since everyone else seems to be against her, and even save her life.I strongly suggest you guys to play it because it tackles many issues like this.

The things that happened to Romy were unfair and the people surrounding her were being awful.At least not everyone in the book treated her like that, though.
Like, you get to feel how being a girl really is, that a victim of rape is not a weak person, etc.
Courtney Summers is certainly a great author.
She's now beaten my list of my favorite authors.I'm not going to spoil you any more details about the book.
I'm just going to say that you seriously need this book in your life.
Every girl needs this book in her life.
We need more authors like her because she's great.#ToTheGirls
It's called All the Rage, by Courtney Summers.
Yeah, you should totally read it.Yes, it is a brutal look at rape culture in today's society.
Yes, it draws our attentions to things most of us would rather not think about.
Summers's prose is crackling and vibrant: the story will draw you in, and the writing will keep you hooked.
Some of her reactions are unreasonable, some of her choices irrational, but it just makes her story that much more heartbreaking.This book has been boiling inside of Courtney Summers for years.
Do me a favor--do us all a favor--and read it.
But read it.
Plus, he's a POC!) But when a person from her past comes up with a bit of information that shakes her, let alone seems to disappear without a trace, Romy has to figure out what she should do in the aftermath.This book seems to focus more on the overarching mystery/disappearance (which is intriguing and kept me guessing through the narrative), but there are some very true commentaries on sexual shaming/violence that stayed with me long after I finished "All the Rage".
It’s a book about girls taking back what is rightfully theirs: the voices, their bodies, their place in society as humans.
Even the characters who filled me with rage and hate had me caring enough about them to allow those feelings to come up, hard, each time they returned.
This isn't a book with a message, but the implications of what it is like to be a girl in a world that regularly chews them up and spits them up come through clearly in Romy and the entire diverse cast of characters.
