https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24137.Catherine_Called_Birdy
Entertaining, but overall highly anachronistic.
Yet another author who transplants a spunky, modern heroine into a vastly different culture without an explanation of how such a character could have developed.
People forget that 'teenagers' have only existed since the middle of the last century.I wish Cushman had created a protagonist who was both engaging to the reader and able to provide illumination of how much people have changed over time.
That's the book I want for my kids.
You know, if I wasn't half-convinced that I would destroy the poor things with my eccentric brand of madness.
Then again, I couldn't do any worse than most parents.
While her father plots suitable arranged marriages for her and her mother tries to prepare her for being a wife by teaching her manners, needlework and herbal medicine, Birdy, the ultimate tomboy, plots ways to get rid of the suitors and sneak off to the village where she can help with the hay harvest and sing hey-nonny-nonny amongst the peasants.The book is written as a journal and spans a year, during which Birdy learns to stop fighting against the position she was born to (including the arranged marriage!) Through her eyes, we come to see and know the village peasants as if they were old friends.
It has all the elements relevant to 14-year-old girls in America today: the longing for a best friend; the parent-related angst; the feeling that no one understands you; the compulsion to do something that really matters in the world.
In reality, this probably isn't a five-star book, but I'm giving it such a high rating because this is the book that made me love reading.I first picked it up in 4th grade and started reading it for no particular reason, and I loved it so much I decided to read all of Karen Cushman's other books as well. The rest is history. One of my favorite parts of the book is when Catherine complains about her brother Robert and how he likes to "drown ants by pissing on the anthill."Ten-year-old Madeline: "Humor and dirty words? BEST BOOK EVER!"
My biggest complaint about this book is how horribly she speaks of her father.
We listened to it on CD (edition wasn't available to post) but the girl who does the reading has a very "common" accent.
Combined with her sharp tongue I couldn't feel for the character.
She sounded like she should be cleaning out the stables instead of the daughter of a knight and a lady.
(I wonder what I would have thought if I had read it years ago before I had my own daughters...)
Recently reread this for probably the hundredth time and continue to love Catherine entirely too much.
Sadly, a revisit to this book as an adult highlights, to my great despair, that I always wanted her to marry the goatherd, and that part of me has been mourning the fact that she doesn't for like more than a decade.
What is my life.
Accessible for kids and (obviously) for adults, it felt very in the moment, like I could see and hear and live all the delights and discomforts of Catherine's time -- still one of the best books I've ever read.
Corpus bones, this book was terrible. i hated it. it was very boring and horrible.
They found the remains of several spindles, many skeins of wool, and an unfinished tapestry in the muck from the privy. Why is everyone so certain they are mine? Catherine is the best. I wanted to be her best friend when I was ten, and I now want to read her adult diary more than anything in the world.
I won't be able to read another book for a while.
I'm ruined.
This book boasts a delightful heroine, and in spite of the (wonderful!) medieval setting, all the angst and rebellion and other feelings I had in my own adolescence came spilling out of the pages.
I loved the characters (the goat boy, the dairy maid, the brothers, the uncle, the best friend!), the hilarious diary entries, the main character's love of animals (from ants to sad, dancing bears!), and the descriptions of medieval life.
Because I'm scared the next book won't be, can't be, this enticing.
Gods thumbs!!!!! It was horrible and i hated it.
I didn't like it at first. After I got farther into it, I started disliking it even more. I will say, I LOVED the ending. I had predicted that she had liked this guy, and I was right!
Hilarious, endearing, and determined, Birdy's trenchant observations of the life around her are told with a refreshingly earthy honesty so real and direct that you put down the book sadly, feeling like you're being parted from a dear friend.
A must read."CIP: "The thirteen-year-old daughter of an English country knight keeps a journal in which she records the events of her life, particularly her longing for adventure beyond the usual role of women and her efforts to avoid being married off."SLJ: "Grade 6-9.
This unusual book provides an insider's look at the life of Birdy, 14, the daughter of a minor English nobleman.
This is one of the "classic" books that they like you to read in late elementary school or early junior high.
And it is rather intriguing to read a book set in medieval times, especially with a spunky heroine.
Perhaps it was like that back then, I don't know.
I do know that I don't like that kind of humor, or that kind of talk in general.
I've never been all right hearing that in daily life, and I'm certainly not all right reading it in books.
Perhaps I would have enjoyed and/or appreciated the book more if I'd read it when I was younger.
The problem, as I've noted with other great books such as 'Tuck Everlasting' and 'Dragonwings,' is that the joy of finding a good book that truly fits you and inspires you has been robbed by 'Catherine, Called Birdy' being required reading, in this case for a seventh grader with whom I have been working.
I don't think I'm reading too much into these types of requirements by assuming this they are assignments that have been recycled over many, many years.
No real thinking is necessary.Is anyone energized by this kind of reading?
Sassy and charming and full of wit, I had completely forgotten how hilarious Catherine and this novel were! Or maybe I didn’t get some of the humor at the time..? Either way, I’m thrilled I decided to pick this one up again after so many years and I know it’s one I’ll be revisiting time and time again.For the full review and more, head over to The Pretty Good Gatsby!
Excellent! Both funny and historically realistic.Books like this is why I would never want to live in the past (even if there was a hot Scott involved) - dirt, stench, sickness, boredom, ugh.
Catherine, Called Birdy by Karen Cushman was not one of my favorite books.  Catherine had many of the characteristics of Ella from Ella Enchanted, such as determination, wit, and assertiveness, but without the vivacity which came through in the characterization of Ella. I found myself not really caring what happened to Catherine. The format of the novel was interesting. Over the years, I’ve realized that writing in first person without becoming repetitive, pedantic and downright boring is diffi
Catherine, Called Birdy by Karen Cushman was not one of my favorite books.
The format of the novel was interesting.
This book, if the information is accurate, would be an appropriate option for extra reading in a history or social studies course.
Some if the information and customs written about through Catherine I did find interesting.
The one redeeming part of this novel was the lesson which Catherine got from the Jewish woman.
“I am who I am wherever I am,” comments Birdy toward the end of the novel.
The lesson was good, and very appropriate for the young adult audience.
Catherine, Called Birdy is a book that I probably would't have picked up on my own, seeing as I am not a big fan of historical fiction books. The book wasn't like I expected it to be, and could be pretty interesting in some parts. I found it a bit slow in some parts, and the setup of the book was different then I was used to. It definitely wasn't a favorite of mine, but I would recommend it to anyone who really enjoys historical fiction books.
("I wondered why Jesus used his miraculous powers to cure lepers instead of creating an herb or flower that would cure them so we could continue to use it even now when Jesus is in Heaven.")Like Bridget, who cataloged her calorie intake, cigarettes smoked, and alcohol units consumed everyday, Catherine tells us which saint's day every day is, after she comes into possession of a book of saints.
She said one reviewer -- an old, white, male historian -- said he finds it much more interesting for historical fiction to portray a powerless woman instead of a powerful one.
Catherine, Called Birdy is an engaging work of historical fiction that shows both the similarities and differences between our times and Medieval ones.
I think for sure that I would've loved this a lot more as a kid, yet at the same time I would've understood far less (all the references to people "tumbling" lmao).
If I'd had a diary-esque book like this for a model as a kid I think I would've been a lot better at keeping a diary.
My favorite passage in the whole book was the entry where she wrote about nothing but helping an ant get to the other side of road: "I felt like I had saved the whole world." I literally almost cried reading that.
I was surprised at how much I laughed as I read this book.
She acted very much like I would think a young adult would.
It was a pleasant book to read with interesting things going on.
I felt like the story line was lacking a little bit though.
It just kind of started and not much happened to the story throughout the book.
I felt like it didn’t have a super strong ending.
It could have kept going and told more about her life and her getting married but it just kind of ended.
Catherine Called Birdy was a witty, charming book to read.
Catherine is such a great character because while she is aware that Edward will eventually read her journal, she is hilariously honest in her evaluations of people.
While there is not really a plot and the entries are scattered, it is a very accurate opinion of many girls' journals, which is one of the reasons the book is so much fun.
This book could very accurately be labeled as a "girl book," but it is quirky and interesting enough that boys would find it amusing as well.
This book was a very fun read.
I think this book wouldn't have been so effective if Birdy had modern ideals and attitudes.
I remember reading a book in high school that was supposed to be set during the Industrial Revolution but the main character acted as though she was living in modern times.
She traveled where she wanted, did what she wanted and talked about birth control so much I suspected that the book was put out by planned parenthood.
Birdy, on the other hand, is a pure delight and leaves you with the texture of that time period in England.
This book is a jewel!
It's a little surprising that a Newberry Honor book like this has some pretty adult themes (aren't Newberries supposed to be juvenile fiction?).
I suppose the author has given a realistic view of medieval life in all its gritty-ness, but I don't think I'd want my kids to read it until they are teens.
Too bad, too, because it's pretty readable and the main character is funny and likeable.
Very interesting, too, to read about all the Saint's Days that were celebrated (the book is in diary style).
I loved Catherine Called Birdy.
This book was so good I just couldn't put it down!
I was very happy at the end of the book because she did not have to do something she did not want to do.
I felt happiness inside of me because of it!
This book takes place in a palace, and a chamber inside the palace.
It was surprising how Birdie' s father is making her get married.
This book makes us think of how when we are parents not to make our child do something they don't want to do, such as get married.
Totally charming.What an irrepressible child Birdy is. Her ingenuity in getting rid of prospective suitors is especially fun, though she's irrepressible in every other context, too. For a story to give you the flavor of the times, you could hardly do better. Of course it's quite obvious how the story is going to work out, and it does take a certain deliberate authorial intervention. Though for all I know, Birdy really would have poisoned that lout if necessary. I mean, I probably would have. Also, I am SO GLAD I did not live in Britain during the medieval period.
Absolutely excellent. Best YA historical novel I've ever read. Thirteen year old Catherine records the doings at her father's manor's house the year before she gets married. Sassy and smart, Catherine would fit in perfectly in modern times, but she lives in a medieval world where women are supposed to know their place (under the heels of men). But still, Catherine finds a way to make her mark on the world. Highly recommended. This book deserved to win the Newberry award.
I STOPPED READING THIS BOOK, I DID NOT FINISH IT! I honestly could not have finished it because it was so terrible. I have never really disliked a book, but this book I really could not have finished.
Deserving of the Newberry awardBest YA historical fiction novel ever. Birdy is just as sassy as any modern girl but she's stuck in a medieval village where woman are property to be bought and sold. Her diary records the year before her marriage at age 13.
I found this book to be interesting at first, but then as it went on began to see how boring it actually was.. It was a new kind of writing style for me, that I have decided that I don't particularly enjoy. I would not recommend this book unless you like a diary style writing format
În Anglia anilor 1920, Catherine, o copilă de 14 ani își documentează un an din viață într-un jurnal adresat fratelui ei. Asistăm cu drag și atașament crescând la descoperirile ei despre viață, familie, sine. Îi admirăm dârzenia și individualismul. Dorim nespus să se termine cu bine.
