https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/329417.French_Cooking_in_Ten_Minutes
students, dressmakers, secretaries, artists, lazy people, poets, men of action, dreamers, scientists, and everyone else who has only an hour for lunch or dinner, but still wants thirty minutes of peace to enjoy a cup of coffee.”The ten-minute meal is possible because de Pomiane will tell you how to be prepared with a small number of cooking utensils, an ordinary stove, and an understanding of basic cooking techniques that he explains very clearly.
However his basic methodology still applies, perhaps now more than ever, with calls for slow cooking and eating, de Pomiane's sage advice, practicality, candor and passion answer those calls.
Apparently the trick to being fast is to leave your hat on. Huge timesaver.
Except for his weird assertion that canned asparagus is really good and that fresh asparagus takes too long to cook, this is an excellent read and I aim to try these recipes soon.
THis is a really fun reading cookbook.
It reads with a sense of humor and is the very basics of cooking in a french style without getting too crazy.
It reads a little clumsey in places, since it was written in 1930, and some modern availability of food would be unfathomable to Mr. de Pomaine.
Fresh aparagus for instance, is available to us year round.
When he speaks of asparagus he recommends getting quality asparagus not from a can but in a glass jar.
If you like to cook this may be a book for you.
This is an old 1930 cookbook that does what it says. Of course, there are no fancy meals here. Lots of plain and simple dinner and lunches, though. In accordance with "modern" times, there are plenty of cans of vegetables, as these take next to no time to heat. Some recipes are definitely worth trying and the others are just fun to read and speculate.
I love this book. I reread it every few months and am inspired every time.
Excellent cook bookDated but useful, I bought this on a friend's recommendation and really liked the style, a lot to learn here
I didn't have high expectations; after all French cooking in ten minutes?
It is also implied that many of the recipes are for two, precede by an earlier course, accompanied by a side and followed by cheese then fruit All in ten minutes - and he explains how to do that as well.There is quite a bit of frying and lots of butter and sauces (which are amazingly simple and build on an earlier basic sauce) but good butter is the delight of French cooking.A wonderful little book of 150 pages which moved immediately to my 'keeper' shelf.
I was hiking up a canyon in France, to see a waterfall in Vaucluse -- the "Fontane de Vaucluse".
Oddly, there were various attractions along the trail and one of them turned about to be the Museum of the Resistance -- Musee de la Resistance -- where aspects of daily life during occupied France were portrayed.
Make do with wine corks!Imagine my surprise to see a slim volume by Edouard de Pomiane, with helpful advice to the war housewife on how to prepare a meal with diminished resources.The present volume, French Cooking in Ten Minutes, dates from 1930.
First published in 1930, this sweet little book purports to open the door to an understanding of simple French cooking.
The most helpful thing Pomiane (who was in fact Polish)does is organize the sections into such things as sauces, eggs, noodles, vegetables, etc., and then starts with the basic (10 minute) recipe and goes on to riffs on each one.
You could really learn to cook if you just went through the recipes in here, and learned about all the variations.
(excepting the Chaucuterie section with such things that are not "big" these days, like brains, tripe, kidneys, etc).

Have loved this book since I discovered it in my local public library and would take it out frequently. Then one day it was no longer part of the collection and I tried everywhere to buy a copy. I now own a re-release and am so very pleased. Part story of life and mostly a cooking advice book that resonates with me. If you are going to eat start immediately by putting water on to boil! I picked up some great advice over the years.
One of the wittiest, silliest, wisest books on cooking I've ever read. Originally published in 1930. The author's Polish heritage lends itself to several idiosyncratic commentaries. I have no idea how practiceable the recipes actually are, but it's a fun read with dramatic expositions in the style of old time radio commercials.
this is a tiny book and one that you would not expect much from. who can cook anything in ten minutes, let alone french food? i bought it as a curiosity when i was buying some other french cookbooks online. well, edouard de pomaine was brilliant and witty. even if you never make a thing from this cookbook it is worth owning, reading and consulting.
A delightful, little cookbook filled with straightforward recipes. It is somewhat dated, but in a charming way. Several recipes are pretty unthinkable for Americans (such as blood sausage). But most of the recipes can be made today in our kitchens and with the food we can easily find at our grocery stores. I'm looking forward to incorporating some of these recipes into my dinner rotation.
I really can't remember when I first read this book, but it's a treasure. When you arrive home to cook lunch, you put a pot of water on to boil before you even take off your hat, because you'll need that water to prepare the meal, if only for a cup of coffee to finish. Out of date, of course, but a wonerful read.
He cheats a little (cooked potatoes don't really count as an ingredient), but I love the overall theme of the book: healthy eating habits are a lifestyle choice, not a luxury. The shirred egg recipe has brightened many bland winter afternoons for me.
An inspiring little cookbook, in which speedy preparation sacrifices neither flavour nor quality. Not suitable for beginners, but if you've got a bit of experience under your belt, this is a nice, quick resource. Despite its age, it holds up well for life in the 21st century.
This tiny manual remains one of the best cookbooks I have ever read. Given to me by a Parisian, so I had no reason to doubt it's authenticity... I find it pithy/succinct AND philosophical, if you can believe it. And accurate, pretty smart cooking instructions.
Classic, timeless & witty !
Maybe takes longer than ten minutes, but it is still an interesting concept.
This book is pure pleasure to read, and very practical also: simple and direct, with wonderful results. I love Pomiane's writing, and recommend this book unreservedly.
A pretty book, and some good ideas to make delicious and nourishing meals in a short time.
It's a short little cookbook, and a totally delightful. It was written in 1930, and manages to feel vintage and fresh at the same time.
food
Superb recipes and writing. Easily one of the greatest cookbooks ever.
Forget Tim Ferriss - this is the cookbook you need as a man about town. Menus that will not fail to impress. Hungry.
A 1930 French tutorial on how to make a quick weeknight meal. Some of the descriptions made me laugh out loud, but I just may get some inspiration from this adorable little book.
This is an utterly charming little book with excellent recipes. I have to admit to being surprised at how good the onion soup is--this one will be made often!
