https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/561895.Amazing_Love
She shares different stories of different people as well as cultures and the beautiful thread of God’s amazing love that was able to touch each person.I do want to say just a few words about the narrarator, Nadia May. She has the warmest voice!
Corrie Ten Boom by far is one of the most inspirational people I have ever read about.
She does not judge, but she does pose a challenge to live out the love of God, rather than just talk about it.
I loved these quotes, "At Ravensbruck I had had good training in casting all my care and burden upon Him; for He careth for you" (I Peter 5:7).
My suitcase of cares was full to the brim, and when I emptied it before the Lord I prayed, "Lord, here they are; help me now to leave them with Thee and continue my way unburdened." What a great image of useless carrying around heavy burdens.And my favorite, "Jesus does not patch things up.
It is not one of my favorites of hers but if you want some light inspirational reading this is the ticket.
I love Corrie ten Boom and her story. This was a short read and it was interesting to learn more about her life and ministry after WWII. What a strong woman!
This book is 27 different chapters.
Each chapter is basically unrelated to the others.
And each chapter has a little story about her life and a sort of application point attached.In brief, it was very enjoyable to read.
Ten Boom's faith simply was beautiful.
And being able to read about it in the stories she told, and then in the way she told them, is convicting and comforting.
It isn't the type of book that will intellectually change much of one's theology or thoughts, but it is a book which changes you as you read her stories and see her beautiful faith.
Ten Boom writes about her travels and evangelistic teaching, sharing stories of conversion and counsel for believers.
It's really a wonderful little book.The only sections where I had 'mixed' feelings were her discussion of God directly telling her things (Hi, my name is Brandon, I'm a cessationist), and her discussion of spiritual warfare, spiritism, and demon possession.
I certainly do believe in spiritual forces beyond what we can see, and am open to the idea that demon-possession continues today.
But ten Boom seemed to have definite ideas of what this is and how it works than what I think Scripture says on it.
This is a small book, a collection of 27 true encounters Corrie Ten Boom had with God and people to whom she was ministering as she traveled the world. I enjoyed it very much. First published in 1953 less than a decade after she was released from a concentration camp. Of particular interest is that she met with and impacted Germans who were literally on the other side of the fence after the war ended, as they were in desperate living conditions then and suffered from mistreatment. Ten Boom recognized that everyone was affected by the war, Germans included.
Corrie Ten Boom was such a strong spiritual women that she put aside her personal life in order to spread the Gospel around the world. Through this book, she tells of different places she has traveled around to around the world and how she related and reached out to whoever she came in contact with. She is an inspiration as advocate for revival around the world. Due to her caring personality, she wanted everyone to receive their eternal reward with Christ.
Nothing like a dose of Corrie to put things in perspective. Love her stories. She only gets a little silly when she complains about how doctrine divides and then fusses at people over various takes on doctrine.Read by Nadia May, who's one of the best.
Such a display of love. Indeed this book is amazing. An inspiration to everyone!
So different from other forms of love.
Wonderful little devotionals that each illustrate a wonderful Bible truth.
Please read Corrie's The Hiding Place.I wish I could could speak so easily of my faith. Corrie's essays/letters make it seem so natural.This is wonderfully inspiring
Simple truth and love presented.
Short anecdotes, each with a poignant message.
Simply written. Full of depth and simple wisdom
Polishing off some of the shorter audiobooks in my collection to end the year with. As ever with Corrie Ten Boom, a beautiful and sensitive look at the world.
In Amazing Love, Corrie recounts twenty-seven of her life experiences.
Corrie uses her trials and triumphs to encourage Christians from all walks of life.Listening to Amazing Love was entertaining and encouraging.
I found listening to this audio book while doing chores quite enjoyable and I would definitely do it again.Some of my favorite things in Amazing Love were: The discussions about the power of prayer and the different forms of prayer as well as the recurring theme of victorious living through Christ.
Corrie used stories of personal victories in her own life to demonstrate her beliefs.
Amazing Love, by Corrie ten Boom, is an encouraging book recounting her ministry for God and includes her experiences, struggles, and how God showed love to her.
Corrie ten Boom also used her vacation time in Bermuda to spread the Gospel.
I liked how Corrie ten Boom incorporated verses at the beginning and throughout the book.
The verses really brought everything together and made it somewhat like a devotional book.
I would recommend this inspirational book to everyone because we can really learn from people who have gone through hard times like World War I and experience suffering, but through it all they continue to serve God.
Abby WheelerMrs. LarioEnglish 110/03/16Book ReviewAmazing LoveCorrie Ten Boom “Amazing Love” by Corrie Ten Boom is a nonfiction book about the author and her life after she was released from a concentration camp.
Corrie Ten Boom goes around to different places and she teaches others about the lord and how he has impacted her life.
I feel like the overall theme of this book was that no matter what position you are in, no matter if you’re wealthy or poor, the lord is always with you.
Overall “Amazing Love” is a great read and I believe everyone should read it.
Corrie ten Boom was an amazing woman of courage who survived concentration camps during World War I, saw her beloved sister die, and then spent her later years bringing the good news of Jesus to people all around the world, including some of her former captors.This book is a series of anecdotes which Corrie ten Boom described after talks she had given, or people she had met, when the discussion turned to the love of God. Unfortunately, although the stories are positive, and the experiences must have been powerful at the time, the writing is stilted and there's not enough detail to make them particularly interesting.
I just finished listening to Amazing Love by Corrie ten Boom.
This is the first audio book that I am reviewing for ChristianAudio.com.
It is a very good book.
Corrie ten Boom's language is not lofty or intellectual.
I view myself as a very new disciple, and so it was very good to hear another perspective on some of these concepts: trust in God to provide for us, we are to allow God’s love for others to flow through us, our sins our forgiven, we must forgive those who have sinned against us, the Devil and demons are defeated spirits.
I read it twice, love books like this one that inspire and uplift!
Favorite quotes:"Whatever the love of God would do is never, by His power, denied.""Jesus is Victor and He uses everyone who is willing to obey Him.""If there is a shadow somewhere in your past of which you do not like to be reminded, stop where you are and take it to God in prayer.
For the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses from all sin and His presence changes the darkness into light.""Do not ask what can I do but what can He do."
Corrie shares from her life, travels, and speaking, but there were also lots of good quotes from others.
I read the book in a few sittings, but it could serve even better to be read in small snatches and contemplated.
One of her gems of wisdom was the prayer she had to pray numerous times as she left people with great needs: "Lord, here they are; help me now to leave them with Thee and continue my way unburdened."Karl Heinz - Forgiveness requires more strength than hatred.Nietzsche - Maybe I would have believed in a Redeemer if the Christians had looked more redeemed.I liked this observation: "What a delight it is to look out over the world from the back of a horse."
I was drawn by the idea of forgiveness. Especially how one can experience a Nazi concentration camp and forgive. Along the same idea that I've learned so much of spirituality and positive outlook from Viktor Frankl. This book is Corrie Ten Boom's 2nd written in 1953. It is a collection of stories of her evangelism after her release from Ravensbrook because of a clerical error. I see now that I should have read "The Hiding Place" which is more about her family's betrayal by a Dutch informant for hiding Jews, and what happened in the concentration camp.
Not as great as the hiding place or tramp for the Lord, but True Stories of the Power of Forgiveness from the Author of The Hiding Place Corrie ten Boom survived a Nazi concentration camp to become a worldwide witness for Christ. Her story has been told in the movie The Hiding Place, and in this wonderful book she shares with us many more amazing encounters with people in camps and jails, with students and actresses, and with the sophisticated and the illiterate. We meet on these pages not Corrie, but Corrie's Christ.
There is much to learn from someone so wise and kind hearted.
I was put off at first once I learned she was an Evangelist, but then I grew to understand that she was so much more.
She survived the holocaust and truly learned to live her life in love rather than hate.
So many people turn bitter under lesser circumstances.
One can learn so much from someone like this.
She taught Down's Syndrome and special students and treated them as equals.
She spread her understanding that we are all part of this human race and we should live like it.
I listened to the audio version of this book and loved it. the stories may not meld together like many novels, but it is read like a diary of sorts. God is great and these stories of Corrie Ten Boom inspire me to be a better Christian and give me hope for a greater tomorrow! May 18 2015I just listened to this a second time! Corrie sure humbles me and encourages me to live out my faith more boldly and consistently!! March 16 2016
This book makes you think about about the need to forgive others.I chose this rating because it has much depth to the writing. It is easy to read and leaves one much to think about in your walk with God. I highly recommend to others. If she can forgive those for her treatment in concentration camp, then surely we can forgive others.
After reading The Hiding Place, and being completely blown away by it, I was interested in reading more by Corrie Ten Boom. So I picked up this book, and I really enjoyed it. I decided to use Amazing Love as sort of a devotional and read a little bit of it a day. Which worked out very nicely. I gave Amazing Love by Corrie Ten Boom 4 out of 5 stars. definitely worth the read!
I've never read a book by Corrie Ten Boom I didn't find captivating and inspiring. This book contains could be read ad a daily devotional of short vignettes of the power of the redemptive love of Christ. What a testimony Corrie is to God's grace, mercy, love and forgiveness to us in Christ and the transformeing power of His love and forgiveness.
