https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6334.Never_Let_Me_Go
It is a pity that people are told this is a science fiction book before they read it.
The themes that make this book most interesting are to do with the social alienation of groups of people on the basis of inherited genetic characteristics.
One reads these books in much the same way that one wakes from a disturbing dream, with feelings of disorientation and anxiety.
It has an honesty of feeling that brands one's soul.I loved this book and have thought about it a lot since I finished reading it and will think about it more.
Maybe because I talk like that, and get off into tangents and anecdotes.Also, at the heart of the store is the purpose/fate of the main characters.
Like -- these people know their fate, but they never think to question it, and, in fact, seem to be glad for it.This was supposed to be a coming of age story.
And they find out that they can't defer their fate, but they don't really seem to care; they don't even seem to be particularly glad that they tried.I've seen a couple of reviews compare this to book to Aldous Huxley's classic "Brave New World" and Margaret Atwood's "The Handmaid's Tale".
It's very important, if you're intending to read this book, that you don't read any reviews or listen to any talk about it first.
I had no idea what this book was about before I read it - and the blurb gives you a very different impression, actually - and so I slipped easily into a story that was as engrossing as it was revealing.If you know something about what to expect, though, I don't think you'll enjoy it nearly as much.
Because of this, there's no point in writing an actual review.
While there they do rounds and rounds of arts and crafts and come of age together, grow up, & yet there is something so not right with their seclusion and it takes page upon page to discover why it is that they are there.
It is horrific, it is bizarre, this secret is handled with so much craft that it is indeed this attribute that marks this outstanding (quite brutal) masterpiece apart from others.
There is an incredibly subtle mastery of several different genres here.
Because the characters are trapped in all of this, the end result is (The Genre Supreme:) Tragedy.
They’ll call it “The Remains of the Meat Tray”.K: Ha, I hadn’t thought of that, I was going to call it “The Remains of the Creche”.Publisher: It gets worse.K: No, honestly, I was thinking of “Never Let Me Grow”.Publisher: You mean, like…never let me grow up?K: Yeah.Publisher: Do you think you could turn the people into pigs or something, you know, like “Animal Farm”?K: I was sort of hooked on the idea of using people and narrating the story in a really dead pan voice…Publisher: I don’t know about dead pan, it sounds more frying pan to me.K: …If it’s dead pan, people won’t be able to tell whether it’s set in the future or the present.
The beauty of this book is not in the plot, but in its execution.Another friendly warning: Never Let Me Go is for some reason often classified as science fiction.
So if you look down on literary fiction and consider books written by authors like Ian McEwan, Margaret Atwood, and Jose Saramago pretentious, this is not a story for you.Now to the novel itself.
There is nothing particularly shocking, gruesome, or intense about Kathy's story, and yet it leaves you with a sense of being a part of a nightmare.After reading quite a few reviews of the book, I can say that I loved the aspects of it that many abhorred.
The sun may have never set on the British Empire, but we Yankees have a guy who can fly faster than the speed of light.) But then I found myself alone in a big bookstore in a big city trying to divine what the angelic face on the book's cover was looking askance at (itself manipulated, no doubt, like the fictional clones whose story it was fashioned to sell) and thinking of Kurosawa's definition of art being about the ability to look at humanity in its entirety without flinching.Mulligan.
(semi-spoilers ahoy, you've been warned) So the book is about a sort of alternate-universe England, where people are cloned and the resulting kids are raised in isolated boarding schools, spending all their time painting and playing sports and getting vague hints about how when they get older they'll have to make "donations." We learn (eventually and with no drama whatsoever) that these kids were created specifically as future organ donors, and that's all they're meant for.
Ishiguro plays with the reader as he unfolds his exploration of what it means to live—but never does so unfairly or at the expense of his characters' right to dignity and reality (a right that he very much does grant his characters).Never Let Me Go is narrated from nearly a decade before its publication.
Better explored.Some may be tempted to see Never Let Me Go as ethical question and admonishment to this generation of readers and to the one that follows us.
These could all be clichéd topics but Ishiguro approaches with such a vaguely detached sublimity that he breathes (through Kathy his narrator) a certain verdant spirit into these things.
The thing I enjoy most about Ishiguro’s writing is the sheer level of depth he gets into his characters; he captures all the intensity of real emotions whether they are self-serving or destructive.
However, for all his talent, I don’t think this novel was as effective as  The Remains of the Day  or even  When We Were Orphans.This is his most popular work, and his most critically acclaimed, and I think that’s only because of the particular themes he explores here.
And for me that’s why I think it’s worthy of study.
They didn’t seem to look beyond their own situation.
I had this book on my TBR shelf for years without realizing that it was essentially dystopian science fiction.The main character is a woman in her early thirties reflecting back on her life as a child at a private school in England.
Where does it go and who sees it and why?Much of the plot is built around a three-way love story between a boy and two girls at school.
Late in life a romantic relationship develops between the other girl (the young woman who is our main character) and the now-young man.
A combination of heavy introspection and soft-scifi, Never Let Me Go has a thought-provoking premise and is brilliantly written, but fails to reach its potential, spending all its time in excruciatingly slow buildup and none of it in impact, theory, or debate.
The characters just barely exceed the gradual revelation of the book's premise and are largely just passive carriers of the story, and so the other various issues, the possible debates, never enter into the text.
The kind of despair that suffocates you, that makes you want to break things, or, at the very least, go out for a run so you can let out the agony bubbling inside you.It's ironic, but Never Let Me Go is about three friends who are destined to let go of everything - their bodies, their dreams, their lives and the people they love.
And these two people in the water, trying to hold onto each other, holding on as hard as they can, but in the end it's just too much.
It's a shame, Kath, because we've loved each other all our lives.
I'll admit, reading a book that you love for the second time is a scary thing.
I read Never Let Me Go for the first time 2 and a half years ago, and I loved it.
Now, the second time reading this book, I will admit there were some writing techniques that threw me, that I didn't recognize or at least didn't bother me the first time.
Tommy & Kath's relationship didn't move me as much as I remember.
I love Ishiguro's ability to give away so much by sharing so little.
I loved it, every single word of it, from the beginning to completion.
Are you complete even if you share your DNA with somebody else, somebody with higher priorities, and a more privileged position?
If you think, see, feel and love, you are a complete human being, no matter what an oppressive, obscene and dehumanising society does to you on a larger scale.
If your thoughts and feelings are yours, and you are able to share them with other human beings, you are complete.
Maybe more than the people who fed on your body to add minutes and hours and days and months and years to their own privileged lives.Never let go of your humanity!
Just announced as Winner of the Nobel Prize 2017!!!
Well deserved.
****I believe a good book transmits a feeling, happiness, sadness, outrage etc.
Of i do not feel anything after I read a certain book I do no consider it was worth it.
And this book defenitely made me feel something.
A feeling that made me take a break from the for two weeks but also made me return to it when I felt I was in the right spirits.
I do not know why but I really liked this book.
It is quite different than anything I've read before.
And yet, the sadness I felt after finishing it, and even before that, was so disproprotionate, it took me wholly by surprise.It wasn't a love at first sight by any means, I needed a whole month to finish it.
I get why she resisted believing there was a 'way out' for them.
And I understand why Kathy wanted to avoid that kind of heartbreak.
I felt so sorry for her.
For their 'fate', for their ruined friendships, for everything.It's hard for me just writing about this book and these 'cursed' characters...
3 stars The story is interesting but it is not exciting enough for me. I liked the main characters, their backgrounds and everything but something was definitely lacking and I can't figure out what. Was it worth reading? - I don't know. Need more time to process it.Will I read it again? - Highly unlikely.Do I recommend it? - It didn't work for me. Maybe it will work for you.
Still remains one of my all time favourites.
Um...I'm sorry but I just didn't like it. (Insert frowny face) A few times I thought "okay, here we go!" But then nope, nothing, nada. The majority of the book felt like an epilogue.
Mention is made early on about (view spoiler)[carers and donors and they are told of "people who shudder at the very thought of you - of how you were brought into the world and why" (hide spoiler)], but it's only towards the end that the details are made explicit.
This exaggerates the contrast of the first part: they can indulge their hobbies (reading and sex, mostly), living comfortably without the need to work, but they are increasingly aware that soon things will change.LOSING CREDIBILITYThe final section follows the three of them when they leave, and this is where the book completely lost any trace of believability for me.
You know those irritating people who talk to children and old people as if they were babies, in a puerile, singsong voice?Well, those idiots sprang to mind as I endured the narrative voice of this glacially slow yawnfest of a novel.This is a book so plodding, so dreary and so pretentious that I gave up on it halfway through.With a less-than-pleased harrumph, I shoved it into a slot on my bookshelf alongside The Remains of the Day, which I'd bought at the same time, anticipating dual sublimity.
1. Never Let Me Go, Kazuo IshiguroNever Let Me Go, is a 2005 dystopian science fiction novel, by Nobel Prize-winning British author Kazuo Ishiguro. The story begins with Kathy, who describes herself as a carer, talking about looking after organ donors. She has been a carer for almost twelve years at the time of narration, and she often reminisces about her time spent at Hailsham, a boarding school in England, where the teachers are known as guardians. Along with classes, they often emphasize the
...هرگز رهایم مکن - کازوئو ایشی گورو (ققنوس) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: نوزدهم فوریه سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: هرگز رهایم مکن؛ نویسنده: کازوئو ایشی گورو؛ مترجم: سهیل سمی؛ تهران، ققنوس، 1385، در 267 ص؛ شابک: 9643116271؛ چاپ دوم 1386؛ چاپ سوم 1389؛ شابک: 9789643116279؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 معنوان: هرگز رهایم مکن؛ نویسنده: کازوئو ایشی گورو؛ مترجم: فاطمه امینی؛ تهران، نوید ظهور، 1394، در 352 ص؛ شابک: 9786008008132؛با آنکه عنوان کتاب عاشقانه است، اما داستان عاشقانه نیست، از عشق سخن میگوید، اما عاشقانه نیست، آغاز داستان چنین است: «اسمم کتی اچ.
Ishiguro starts with an interesting premise but makes very little out of it, and ends up with a limp, unsatisfying story.Some of the positive reviews about this book seem a little strained -- we're supposed to reflect on the similarity of our own "doomed" lives to those of the clones.
But by the time the book ambled to a close, I felt like the characters might as well be carved up for their innards -- they didn't seem to be willing to take the risks necessary to have an actual life.
Even when we, as "enlightened" human beings, look back in disgust at such historical injustices, shouldn't we ask ourselves the question: "Am I any different?" I constantly do, and am frightened by the answer sometimes...The writing of the novel is weak compared to "Remains of the Day", and the main plot device (art and literature providing evidence for the "soul") is rather trite, but Ishiguro must be congratulated in creating a future which is a dystopia only from the main protagonists' point of view, and drawing us into the same and making us feel the horror.
Thought provoking.Life shattering. Gut wrenching. Searingly painful. Utterly beautiful. A story about what it means to be truly human. five stars "So you’re waiting, even if you don’t quite know it, waiting for the moment when you realise that you really are different to them; that there are people out there who don’t hate you or wish you any harm, but who nevertheless shudder at the very thought of you and who dread the idea of your hand brushing against theirs. The first time you glimpse yours
"So you’re waiting, even if you don’t quite know it, waiting for the moment when you realise that you really are different to them; that there are people out there who don’t hate you or wish you any harm, but who nevertheless shudder at the very thought of you and who dread the idea of your hand brushing against theirs.
The first time you glimpse yourself through the eyes of a person like that, it’s a cold moment.
It’s like walking past a mirror you’ve walked past every day of your life, and suddenly it shows you something else, something troubling and strange."
I must admit that when I picked it up, I was looking forward to a dark & mysterious tale, and that isn't altogether what I got from this book so I can't help but feel let down in some ways.
But that being said, the most eerie thing about this book is how the characters being affected never rail against the system that's oppressing them.
There's a bit of hang wringing, some muttered disappointment, but most of all there is a quiet acceptance.The characters we often look up to in Dystopian tales are the ones who sacrifice life & limb to dismantle their society's flawed ideas about social justice.
So the rest of this class that is awake can hear the discussion that grows from this interruption.""Sir, do you think it was morally right that President Truman made the decision to drop the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki?"I watched Dr. Johnston's chest expand as he swallowed a mouthful of air.
Madame rapidly turns and departs without explanation, a continuing mystery woman whose comings and goings at the school have no apparent reason to the children.The growing horror of the fate that awaits the children of Hailsham is created by the simple straightforward delivery of Ishiguro's chosen narrator, Kath.
I finally finished reading this book.
I've never read any Kazuo Ishiguro's works before, but this book is just pure boredom.Now don't get me wrong, the idea, the story, the characters are amazing.
Right after finishing the book I downloaded the movie based on it.
I honestly got the impression at some point that Ishiguro was just filling up empty spaces to ensure that the book gets published.Hope I haven't offended anyone with this, but I'm used to expressing what I really think about books.I regret that I spent so much time on this book.
Somtimes sad is ok. If you are looking for something "Ok sad", might I recommend Sad Keanu. See it is sad, but kind of funny and people can have fun and have had fun for quite sometime. Sad Keanu in a boat  Sad Keanu watching football and my personal favourite Sad Keanu with panda. With "Never Let Me Go" there is no fun to be had here,none. Not only is it sad and depressing as shit, it is also cold. It is set in England which goes without saying...damp(the worst kind of cold). The teachers are c
Somtimes sad is ok.
If you are looking for something "Ok sad", might I recommend Sad Keanu.
See it is sad, but kind of funny and people can have fun and have had fun for quite sometime.
Sad Keanu in a boat 
Sad Keanu watching football
and my personal favourite Sad Keanu with panda.
Not only is it sad and depressing as shit, it is also cold.
It is set in England which goes without saying...damp(the worst kind of cold).
