https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6456323-the-crystal-crypt
The last Terran ship is preparing to leave the orbit of the Red Planet when it is forced to land at the final checkpoint: the Martians, having just learn that one of their cities have been destroyed, is looking for three saboteurs, and they insist on subjecting the passengers to a lie detector (a voice analyzer, a large metal box).
But the scene shifts to the lounge, where one of the passenger/saboteurs soon begins to tell his story.
It is exciting, but rather predictable too—like one of those stories of the French Resistance—until he gets to the part where we learn how he and his comrades “destroyed” the city.
and the grim red planet was not far behind."PROs:* Easy, quick, and relaxing read* Interesting story* Good twist ending* Original use of technology* Never a dull or slow momentCONs:* Not a lot of detail* Lacking character development* The book never wraps up and left me wanting moreThis was the first Philip K.
The Martians and their civilization remind me of the Combine from Half-Life 2, as they are quite mysterious and always dressed in black clothing.The story remains interesting throughout and there was never a dull or boring moment to be found.
A Wacky, Creative, Quick Story"Stark terror ruled the Inner-Flight ship on the last Mars-Terra run.
For the black-clad Leiters were on the prowl ...
and the grim red planet was not far behind."In "The Crystal Crypt," war between Terra (the new name of Earth) and Mars looms as one of Mars's great cities was destroyed.
(How Mars has civilization at all is not explained.) The tension builds from the start; who destroyed the city?
Why did they do it?"...I'll be glad to spin you a story.
And I'm sure it will be interesting enough to keep you awake..."Yes, it was interesting enough to keep me awake and entertained.
The short stories are among the finest by the standard of their author, though, this stern entry-level edition is severely lacking. This issue comes out as a mere printing of the texts, bound together by a cheap pixelated cover, no summary that I remember of. This is the closest you can get to shameless, botchy self-publishing at its worst.Not the best introduction by any means to the lush universes of Philip K. Dick.
What if the problem with science fiction is that it is not formulaic enough so that readers know what they will get? The novelty is strong, but the amorphous structure doesn’t automatically draw readers in like detective novels do.
It gets only 3 stars because it was pretty much predictable all the way.But, we have to remember that this book was first published in the 1960's where twists and turns were defined differently.As Philip K Dick's short stories go, it was a very short one. But, the story was filled with Dick's trademark intelligence.It narrates the tale of how Mars fights back against Earth's oppression.A very decent way to spend 20-odd minutes.
When the ship has finally set out towards Terra, three passengers tell a young man how they entered a Martian city in the guise of native people, how they carefully planted their devices in different areas of the city and then turned tail and ran …Reading The Crystal Crypt was a rather strange and alienating experience to me in our day when terrorist attacks have cast their shadow over everyday life, and for all the antipathy those Martian Leiters filled me with, I found the trio from Terra even less prepossessing because I could not stop thinking of all the unoffending people living in the city they targeted.All in all, I found this short story less intriguing in terms of Dick’s typical ability to come up with fascinating ideas.
The story opens with the scene of the last flight of Terrans or people from Earth heading out of Mars.
The Martian authorities come on the Inner Flight Ship looking for three specific people who are responsible for eliminating the main city of Mars.
The Martians had a closed theology in that they kept the Terrans from coming into their City where the main governance was based and I think that they were fearful that the Terrans would somehow contaminate their people’s subservient lifestyle.
Solid short story by PKD, (I wouldn't call it a 'short novel' like the title says, barely a novella).A quick read about three people of Earth who are being hunted by the Leiters of Mars for destroying one of their huge cities.
Sometimes even knowing what's coming can be enjoyable - that's PKD for you.
A Must Read Science Fiction Story!!!A wonderful Philip K Dick Science Fiction short story! Mars and Terra (Earth) are on the verge of war and you are aboard the last space ship carrying Terrains back to their home world. Three of the passengers are on the run from Martian authorities for causing the lose of a major Martian city jut hours before the last ship to Terra was scheduled for departure. Will these three escape? A great story that I think all readers will enjoy!!!!
This was my first book by Philip K Dick, and it was only short. I was a bit disappointed with it as I have heard so much about this author and how great he was. However, I will try others, just to see.
A quick one. Read during the weekend. A Martian city is "destroyed" - a brief whodunit.
Nice short story.Well written. Succinct. Reminded me of short stories I had read as a kid. Good introduction to Phillip K Dick's work.
OK, OK, I know it's back from 1954, but Phil Chenevert's narration just killed it for me.
Very satisfying ending.
Story within a story. Man against man. Ally is really an enemy.
3.5 starsI could use one of those "snow-globe-thingies."
Might have liked it as a child. Too predictable as an adult.
The people of Terra create a debigulator and steal a martian city. Yikes!
A good piece of science fiction, somewhere really banal and trivial, somewhere else cool and with suspence. But nothing special, overall.
So this was a relatively short story which left me feeling like it cut off right when the story was getting good.
On the other hand it left me with a lot to think about.
I mean good grief the Terrans (spoilers) shrunk an entire city and it's inhabitants into the size of a snow globe in order to get what they wanted from the Martians.
The Martians have withheld certain technologies, but what planet wouldn't in order to protect itself from hostiles and it certainly seems like Terrans hate them.
So while extremely short, this is still a worthwhile read.
This was not my favorite Philip K. Dick story. It had some clever elements but it didn't really capture my interest.
Making use of the little leverage they have they try their best to find the Americans before the ship departs.Philip Marlow meets Alfred Hitchcock on the set of the Outer Limits is the only way to describe this story.
Part detective story, part sci fi and a lot of that mysterious man on the train.One of Philip K.
Not as technological and sophisticated as some of today's imagery, they refer to Mars vehicles as "cars" and carry machine guns.
This guy was really out there. His writings are spacey, no pun intended.
This story is set on a ship leaving Mars on a return trip to Terra (presumably Earth).
The book was written at a time when people thought Mars might just be inhabited.
Mars and Terra are not on good terms and the last of the Terrans are on this ship, leaving the planet.
It's a good story that suffers a little by the fact that, in this day and age, we're a bit more sophisticated in our demands of inter-planetary interaction.
In fact this was more of a political thriller than a Sci-Fi book.
It's still a nice little read from a very good author.
This PKD short story got a 3 star for these reasons.
Even though it was pretty predictable, i happened to look past that part considering the fact that it was published in the 60's.
I'm sure when it was first released the world had not read or seen so many twists except from the twilight zone series.
It would have received a 4 star rating if it ended differently.
Yes i was predicting how it was going to end, and for the most part i was correct; however, i feel he could have put more into the ending then what he had written already.
Terrran terrorists have allegedly blown up a whole Martian city and are thought to be attempting to escape from Mars on the last shuttle to Terra before war breaks out.
The Martian secret police board the shuttle looking for the perps but do find them.
But some of the passengers on the shuttle aren't what they initially appear to be .
. .I was expecting this story to blow my socks off, being a Philip K Dick story, you tend to expect great things.
But there wasn't any fireworks going off in my mind.
The Crystal Crypt is a science fiction short story by Philip K Dick and was first published in the US magazine Planet Stories, January 1952. The Crystal Crypt tells the story of the very last Mars to Earth space flight, an mass evacuation that took place after hostilities broke out on the Red planet. Of course the last ship isn't going to leave easily, not when the black-clad Leiters are on the prowl. A great little Philip K Dick short story, and one that has a genuine surprise plot twist and a great ending.
