https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19687.The_Bear_and_the_Dragon
All non-Christian Chinese characters are evil, (except one naive girl who likes sex), and Chinese-Americans, even those in the CIA and military, aren’t trusted with sensitive information (and don't get a single word of dialogue).
Clancy even suggests that the Chinese government might be harvesting the organs of aborted newborns and selling them on the black market.Besides constant rips on China, Mao, and everything Communist, there’s lots of pro-capitalism.
Ok, so I've read probably half a dozen Clancy novels over the course of time, most recently this and Executive Orders.What's interesting is that today, in 2013, how wrong Clancy has been about practically everything, from both foreign and domestic policy.
It's that Clancy paints everything in heavy-handed, straight-up racist terms.
His Americans routinely pepper their speech with racist slurs about the Chinese, something that its difficult to imagine Clancy doing if this novel was about a conflict with Nigeria or Somalia.
Furthermore, he goes off on these pointless disquisitions about the virtues of capitalism, the flat tax, anti (abortion) choice, and other right-wing positions, whilst showing his lack of depth of knowledge on almost all these subjects.
This is something of a mash of previous Clancy plots with 600 extra pages thrown in for good measure. China, who is facing a major economic problem ( Red Storm Rising ), decides to start a war with Russia. The Chinese are lead by a cadre of arrogant, out of touch oligarchs ( Debt of Honor ) who are unable to see that they are in over their heads. This culminates in the US coming to Russia's aid, where they wreck all comers (Just about every Clancy book ever), and the Chinese attempting to nuke a
This culminates in the US coming to Russia's aid, where they wreck all comers (Just about every Clancy book ever), and the Chinese attempting to nuke a US city (
Fortunately these books read pretty quickly, and the action bits were good.One thing I picked up that I hadn't noticed reading Clancy books as a kid: dude is obsessed with money.
Yeah, having the distinct honor of being the chief executive of the greatest nation in history is a real pain in the ass, I'm sure.
Hopefully his millions of dollars (which the book keeps mentioning) will console him.Oh, and this book has the worst closing line in the history of printed media.
I wanted to die while reading this book. It is awful. Clancy picks about seven key phrases - "six five and pick 'em", "the Navy makes great coffee", for example - and repeats them every two pages and then calls it writing. Oh, and he repeatedly calls Chinese people "Klingons". I'm not joking.
This is one of the worst book I have ever read. what a waste of time. I lost alot of respect for Tom Clancy after this book.
"You still reading that fascist crap?" --Mr. Brady, my 8th-grade History teacherThis book has been brought to you by Drunk Uncle.
I had pretty low expectations going in but, wow, this is easily one of the worst books I've ever read.
She giggled...") Clancy even closes the book with one last reference to Nomuri's genitalia as a "Japanese sausage," as though that were some crude joke he alone finds especially funny.Speaking of funny, there are unintentionally hilarious throwback moments, which illustrate just how behind-the-times this was, even for the year 2000.
This book needed an editor.I believe the Clancy universe jumped the shark with the previous book, Rainbow Six. The plot for the Bear and the Dragon seems to involve much rehashing of previous storylines and ideas (which would not have been such an issue if the writing was more interesting, particularly in the first half of novel).All this aside, I enjoyed the story, with one major exception that I found difficult to overcome - the attitudes of the US and Russian characters towards the Chinese.
THis is the book that made me quit Clancy's Ryan series. **Spoiler alert***Well, I kind of wish I could spoil this, but it was all so cliche and predictable. It seems Clancy has found his Novel script, and the only thing that differs is the name of the good and bad guys.In this one, Russia is the good guy that is being attacked by the bad guy China. RUssian characters are oh-so-noble and the Chinese evil or bland (they're gonna die anyway, so why bother making them human)It's all just too obvious and predictable.
His writing has gotten sloppy, and his personal politics have taken over his story lines.
I'd like to think he was a better writer than this back in his "Hunt for Red October" and "Cardinal of the Kremlin" days - and that my love for his writing wasn't purely a lack of maturity on my part.Bear & Dragon has all of the granular over-detailed descriptions of every little working part of every military piece of hardware one would expect, with a completely obvious plot.
And women.
Clancy doesn't like women.Like I said, last Clancy I'll ever read.
But in this book, the US finds out China is going to invade far enough in advance that they get Russia into NATO and eliminate any and all suspense.
Did Clancy honestly think that the Russians were in awe of the US (rather than bitter) at the end of the Cold War?The Chinese have replaced the Russians as the communist ideologues.
I was going to move on to Teeth of the Tiger after this, but I’m going to need a break from Tom Clancy before I start on Jack Ryan Jr.
Ok, I have liked many of Clancy's books, but this one is one of the biggest, most offensive pieces of sh*t out there.
Any likeability of the Jack Ryan character is immediately out the window just a few pages in to this book, as he starts spouting his fascist, racist, sexist views.
If the man hates being President so much, why does he quit?
This book would probably be a real page turner for a middle aged, white, gun loving, racist US male.
Everyone else would probably be thoroughly insulted and offended by page three.
At some point I'm going to revisit the early Clancy's in the hope that they are as suspenseful as I remember them. This, however, I've read for the first and last time. I'm not sure where it all went wrong or why, but this is not good and at a thousand+ pages it's not to be taken lightly either.
60% politics, 30% religion, 10% war. 100% mediocre.
This book is for anyone who wants to read and has the time to take in a thousand page book.
It doesn’t fell like a thousand pages once you start the book flies by with relative ease.
The book starts off with a Russian head of state being caught up in an attempted murder and narrowly escaping with his life.
The book continues like this for a while but it adds even more people to the story with the addition of a Russian head of state and a NATO Special OPS team that is specialized in counter terrorism.
OK...so I like Tom Clancy's "Jack Ryan" books.
When you devour books the way I do (usually a couple hundred pages at a sitting), a 600-900 page book that holds your interest is a fun read!
All the Jack Ryan books since "Debt of Honor" have required suspension of disbelief on a galactic scale and this one is no exception.
Still, they seem to be a weakness of mine and I keep picking up the latest one, usually in the summer, and dutifully devour it over a week or so at the pool or on vacation.
Here's another complaint about Tom Clancy books--yeah, still not sure why I end up reading them--it takes him 400 pages to get to a plot.
For 400 pages, he's meandering among too many potential plot lines, and really, it's a lot of work to keep track of them all.
But hey, he still sells books, and I still keep reading them, so that's my fault.This one--which is hopefully the last of this ridiculously long series--was WAY too heavy on the anti-abortion stance.
That had really nothing to do with any way the plot developed, and really, do we care what Tom Clancy's view on the subject are?
Definately not my favorite Tom Clancy novel. It took a while for the plot to unravel, and even then it was a little bit of a stretch. Took too long to get the real battle, and once there it was over too quickly and too hokey. Clancy is usually rock-solid on this stuff, but missed the mark on this one. Not horrible by any means - still finished it, at least - but definately a couple notches below what i would expect from Tom.
I didn't get very far in this book. I read just a couple chapters- enough to see that swearing was going to be commonplace.I stopped reading because of that. If I want to hear the F-word, I can just come to school and not tell the kids to knock it off... Too bad- the story was very promising. I was excited for the exciting read.
The book is based off a plot by the communist Chinese government to invade Siberia and take their natural resources, especially the gold and oil hidden well under its surface.
This made me wish that these countries would stop their conflict and try to reason with each other.Reading the book The Bear and the Dragon made me realize that most countries are only focused on themselves and would plot to attack others for their gain.
They attack other countries for resources because their own economy is failing from their leadership.
finished this one this morning, 'bout 4:30 in the a.m. great story, 5-stars, quite the tale.long.
don't know for certain, read the kindle version, library copy.
sheesh, the story is political.
as are the reviews.an impressive story, emphasis on story and clancy takes the reader through the hallowed halls of the political kingdoms here on earth, from the soviet union, to d.c., to peking.
and then some.i think it's a hoot that the top review here laments that some of the characters herein use politically incorrect terminology.
that or pick up that jawbone of the ass lying on the ground over yonder and go to work.great story!
Abandoned this 200 pages in.I use to read Clancy in high-school and I was curious to know what I thought of his writing many years later.
Here is a sample regarding the Chinese, (p178):“Remind the little slant-eyed fucks that they need us a shitload more than we need them.”I’m disappointed that my favourite high-school author (the Hunt for the Red October etc.) thought this (and many, many other horrible lines) were okay to publish.This book is going straight to the recycling bin.
Clancy's newest Ryan opus is somewhat of a disappointment in comparison to his past stories.
If you have read all of the Ryan novels, this book is like attending a family reunion.2)The Clancy Roller Coaster: The use of multiple story lines and his awesome sense of pacing make TC's novels difficult to put down.
In my mind, `Clear and Present Danger' will always be Ryan at his best.4)Get a new editor: You would think a techno-freak like Clancy would utilize a repeated phrase/grammar/spell checker before publishing.
I’ve read and enjoyed some and mostly enjoyed the films, but lately I’ve struggled with the Politics of Clancy projected by his Character Jack Ryan.
He ends the last book confirming that he will run for the Presidency and this book appeared to be the culmination of the story arc begun in Debt of Honour so I thought I’d follow through despite my reservations.
That and the strong streak of Catholicism and Racism which runs through this novel.I mentioned that this was the culmination of a story Arc. The Chinese are the shadowy puppet masters behind the scenes pulling the strings of the other aggressors in the two previous Ryan books.
Not many of them in this book but one CIA field agent reminds himself that his female boss "takes her leaks sitting down." Since we can assume he has no first-hand knowledge of this, we can only assume that he's showing that great deductive reasoning which makes him such an effective field agent!
(Apparently, even if they're perpetually drunk on vodka, there are no "limp noodle" problems here!) All I can say is that Clancy really shows his age here with all his droning on about bladder problems and right-wing politics, and Jack Ryan is turned into a sort of a Rush Limbaugh action-figure, bent on "how things oughtta be." A sad end to an entertaining saga but unless the family sells the rights to some ghost-writer (á la Robert Ludlum), we've finally heard the last of it.
This is easily the worst Clancy book I've read.
(That makes Clancy's propagandizing a bit disappointing, though it doesn't completely undercut the value of the book.)Indeed, all that would be tolerable and would make for a fun piece of summer beach reading.
This book, however, is crammed with unnecessary descriptions of sex (all of which is done by promiscuous Asians—even the activities of the Russian prostitutes is only implied, not explicitly described), incredibly offensive racial slurs (made by nearly all of the book's heroes), and a range of other unnecessary and derogatory language.Perhaps Clancy was trying to give to give his characters moral depth.
(That's hard when your main character is the shining beacon of what is clearly Clancy's vision of an ideal American.) In that he fails.
President Ryan, upon finding intel that the Chinese were planning a hasty invasion of far eastern Siberia, asks NATO to allow Russian entry, so Russia, fragmented after the collapse of the USSR would be under NATO protection.
The PLA skeptical about the NATO-Russian alliance goes ahead with preset invasion plans.
The NATO response is a destroyed PLA Navy by US carrier fighters, the destruction of most mechanized ground units in Russia and the eventual collapse of the communist system under politburo control in Beijing.
In contrast, this one is a disaster.The book could easily be half the length if Clancy had decided to do two things:* Stop repeating everything.
Most memorable things people say are repeated at least two or three times, many are drilled by repetition to the point of making you want to cut somebody.
Generals/leaders not happy having to kill other people, but still doing it because it's their job?
Seven or eight mentions.
At least four mentions.
At least four mentions.
So real men don't get divorced, or work night jobs, etc?That's at least 600 pages right there.
It's sad how Tom Clancy went from being a compelling author to one so rabid in his politics that he couldn't keep that out of his novels.
It's so long that you would have hoped an editor could have slashed a few hundred pages by taking out anti-Clinton shots, pro-GOP rhetoric and very thinly veiled homophobia.Whether you're liberal, conservative or something in between, if I pick up a novel like this, I'm not looking for a lecture on your political view.
Tom Clancy wrote some great books (The Hunt for Red October and Red Storm Rising being two of my favorites), but he went off the rails.
“The Sum Of All Fears” this is not.When I read “Executive Orders” a few books back, it seemed as though Clancy’s writing was beginning to slip.
It may sound crazy, but I really do wonder if he was slowly slipping into some mild form of dementia towards the end.Maybe it is because I read this novel in 2017, but the geopolitical outlook seemed a bit strange to me.
Yeah, we get it, Jack Ryan doesn’t like abortion.
Only in a Tom Clancy novel would an abortion start World War III.
Once I was reading about Jack Ryan complaining about abortion.
I couldn't find the audiobook listed on Amazon.
The audiobook by Frank Muller was distracting.
He chose the third party narrative voice to sound like Keith Ledger's Joker voice.Now for the book.
It had plenty of action, plot and subplot--complete with spycraft, politics, and assassination attempts.
What I found the most interesting was the way the CIA agent "bugged" the Chinese minister's secretary's laptop.
The book had its shortcomings.
There were things repeated later as though it was a novel thought, and I swear I am sick of hearing of "you bet your bippy," a Rowan an Martin Laugh-In saying that has been dead over thirty years.All in all...what can I say?
