https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5310515-when-you-reach-me
a super short review, karenstyle!!someday, i am going to venture down to the second floor where the kids/teen section is and i am going to grab a whole bunch of books that i like and i am going to just shelve them in my adult fiction section because the young'uns shouldn't get to hog everything that is good in this world and also not have to pay rent, and there is something creepy about a 35 year old man browsing the shelves in teen fiction.* i am doing everyone a favor here.this book is great.
Coincidentally, I just read a sci-fi story about time travel before this.
This adorable little book talks about time travel too and is absolutely enthralling.
It’s one of the best elements of the story because it is told by the 12 year old Miranda through her letter in response to the notes of a mystery man- a man who seems to know things about Miranda even before they happened.
I love how the book talked about life’s most ordinary things- little things in the perspective of a 12 year old girl but which made the story even more meaningful.
Thank goodness there are authors that can still capture the feel of being a kid growing up and how simultaneously painful and wonderful it can be.Miranda is a sixth grader who lives in New York City.
Miranda is feeling all muddled and confused, but what she does know is that she lost her best friend and can't seem to piece together why.
Miranda's mother and her boyfriend play vital roles in her life and though they might not know everything that is going on you can tell through the pages that they love her dearly.
Throughout the story Miranda is reading her favorite book, A Wrinkle in Time.
W H O A.To say those last couple of chapters caught me off guard is an understatement. I’m stunned and (or because of) I found myself getting really emotional towards the end...Just so good.Read in one day.rating: ★★★★½
First I have to say that A Wrinkle in Time has been my favorite or among my very favorite books since I was nine years old, and I’ve never been able to write a true or worthy review for it; I can’t even try.There are dozens, maybe hundreds, of books I wish I’d written.
Occasionally, I come across a book I should have written.
Really, if you know the book A Wrinkle in Time, add this book to your to-read list.
There are worse fates in this world.The crazy thing is that it’s also the kind of book that kids will really really like AND the kind that award-giving librarians will really really like.
I believe that author Rebecca Stead may have read and reread that book just like Miranda does when she was a kid herself.
How many times would a person have to read it before they caught on to what was going on?In the end, there’s a darkness to When You Reach Me. A darkness and a depth that pulls you in, but somehow doesn’t depress you.
But you have to give me the book first, I want to read the summary and see what the hype is about." I said.
When I was reading the summary, I understood why the book was so good.
When I was about to read the book, I kept thinking that I knew what was going to happen in the end.
I wanted to know the ending of the story so I kept reading.
Now I understand my friend and why she was so excited for me to read this book.
I don't know why my friend said the main character was kinda like me.
Newbery Winner 2010 #2 on Barnes & Noble's Top Ten Children's Books of 2009Maine Student Book Award Nominee 2010-2011I feel like I'm missing something because every other review seems to be five stars.
But the ease with which I solved the mystery is why I don't think I can give this book as glowing a review as everyone else seems to.Really, why is this book getting so much praise?
I feel like this is the first time that I've ever been so confused by a book that people praise as awesome that I found predictable and thought was just okay.
It’s all cute, but could one of those books satisfy me?It probably deserves more than three stars.
I didn’t expect to encounter these in a children’s book and they were artfully applied.
Indeed, during the event, Rebecca spoke about how she didn’t think kids needed to be so protected.
Rebecca also spoke about the inspiration for the book.
When they finally identified this man, he had a fiancé named Penny and no children.
She wanted to describe how books can feel so personal.
Miranda and her friends know all the major plot points on school and coming home from school.
She starts getting notes from someone and has to figure out the mystery and leave a clue behind.
The story is fascinating and explores some major themes that are fleshed out with diversity and inclusion.
The best part is that the story gets better and better.
By the time you reach the end you want to start it all over again.
Oh and PS- Miranda is obsessed with A Wrinkle in Time, so any character that's bookish checks a major box for me!
The books we love from childhood are as much about who we were when we read them as it is about the books themselves.
I suppose I fear that I won't enjoy A Wrinkle In Time as much as I did when I was twelve.Rebecca Stead's When You Reach Me might change my mind.The book takes place in 1979, and the protagonist, Miranda, is a sixth grader, just like I was.
If this book does not win a Newbery medal, I will eat a paperback copy of A Wrinkle In Time...
$1.99 Kindle special, March 2, 2018, for this 2010 Newbery award winner. And karen gave it 5 stars! so I'm off to buy it now.
I liked this book, though I'm not sure I can jump on the bandwagon of rave reviews.
What I did not like about the novel is that it takes too long to get into the real meat of the story, coming very close to "boring" territory.
Halfway through the book I was still waiting for the author to get me to the point.
And then it all seems to end rather abruptly with little development of the other characters or their stories.
I wanted more, and not in the way that a really great book leaves you wanting more.
I just felt like something was missing.
I love middle-grade books.
Here are examples of wonderful chapter headings:Things you keep in a boxThings you hideThings that sneak up on youAt times that first part is interesting, at times slow (as life can sometimes be :-), but always well written.
I guessed who the sender is after the second letter and who the sender was after the third, but wasn't sure.
And the end is amazing.
One of the best endings--easily 5+ stars.
And when she thought of the implications her letter would have on the mystery person.
A wonderful book.
And did I mention those chapter headings?
(Hats off to the author--no one ever does that!) I knew even more with the odd clues and the references to A Wrinkle in Time.This book left me stunned and thoughtful for a week afterward.There were sweet moments to the story--working at a restaurant with friends, baking a ridiculously awful but fun cake, and Miranda’s interactions with her mom.
(It was also heartwarming to see how she and Richard were totally in cahoots.) I loved how, through the events that happened, Miranda learned to love those around her in small but tangible ways (prime example: Alice).
Also, if you haven’t read A Wrinkle in Time this book includes spoilers for it.
This is why: 1) I rarely like any books whose target audience is middle-schoolers; 2) "When You Reach Me" is a sort of homage to Madeleine L'Engle's "A Wrinkle In Time," a novel which I couldn't get myself to finish.
And then Miranda starts finding mysterious notes that plead her to write down all details of the events leading to Sal's estrangement and those that happen immediately after.
What follows is a very peculiar mix of mystery, adventure, and time-travel, a story about friendship, family, and growing-up.
I am not sure what exactly I liked about the book, I just know that I couldn't put it down.
This intriguing modern day story draws inspiration from Madeleine L'Engle's A Wrinkle in Time.When Miranda's mother unexpectedly fell pregnant during college, she put her studies on hold and took time out to care for her baby. Twelve years later mother and daughter are poor but happy together. Miranda is a good girl, but like many her age her world is small and revolves mainly around herself. When strange notes appear which tell her about things that will happen in the future, she is intrigued.
This intriguing modern day story draws inspiration from Madeleine L'Engle's A Wrinkle in Time.When Miranda's mother unexpectedly fell pregnant during college, she put her studies on hold and took time out to care for her baby.
Miranda is a good girl, but like many her age her world is small and revolves mainly around herself.
I'd recommend this for relatively mature readers who can handle a mystery that may at times appear worse than it is, they can be assured that the resolution is as inspiring as it is surprising.
It's a time travelling story.
It will remind you of other time travelling stories.
Miranda is twelve and lives in NYC with her mom.
Her mom has rules about city living like never show your money on the street and always have your key out before you reach the front door.
"If I'm afraid of someone on the street, I'll turn to him (it's always a boy) and say, 'Excuse me, do you happen to know what time it is?' This is my way of saying to the person, 'I see you as a friend, and there is no need to hurt me or take my stuff.
But by now you’ve guessed that When You Reach Me is no ordinary novel; instead, it’s one of the most unconventional novels I’ve ever read — and I’m including The Name of the Rose, The Icarus Hunt, Dorp Dead, and Miranda’s favorite book of all time, A Wrinkle in Time.
The book didn’t reach me emotionally in the same way as, say, The Wrinkle in Time or The Ring of Rocamadour or The Magic Thief did, although I can’t quite put my finger on why.
2.5 stars.
Going right in between "okay" and "I liked it" on this one.
On the good side, this is a clever YA (emphasis on the young) mystery that is fairly well paced and a good ending.
I also thought the discussions about time were pretty good and may interest younger readers in wanting to learn more.
On the negative side, I didn't really like the characters and the prose, while good, was not as engaging as I would have liked.
That could very well be simply the result of its aiming for a younger target audience.
My New York Times review. A blog post about reading it aloud to my fourth graders  with links to their own blog posts.
While I label this great book (to be published in July 2009) science fiction, that element is not the most obvious part of the story.
Rather it's the story of Miranda, who doesn't understand why her best friend from the floor below her has cut her off since the day a big kid punched him in the stomach.
With all this going on, there is one more mystery: the tiny notes that show up, giving Miranda strange hints about the future.The notes add an element of suspense that hangs over the entire book.
This is going straight to my best of all time list.
A very smart book.
Just as good the second time.7/29/2014: My fourth read!
Always amazing, but this time was really cool.
She has to read this over the summer for school!
We stayed up all night reading it right to the end.
Gianna was cool about it.
:) I'll always remember staying up late and snuggling with Gianna and reading this book, and how excited she was when she put it all together.
I can't say it enough: this book is just so wonderful.
When You Reach Me is a middle grades science fiction novel set in the late 20th century in the Upper West Side of New York City.
The novel is a bit of a mystery, as well, as it focuses on the identity of the mysterious letter writer contacting sixth-grader Miranda.
There are other elements woven in, additionally, including A Wrinkle in Time, some time travel, and Jewish culture.As a whole, this book had much to discuss (in a classroom) as far as plot, characters, and setting, despite being a quick read.
Good for a middle school audience, but not exceptional otherwise.
This was such a good book! I've learned to be wary of Newberry winners because, for some reason, they tend to be awful, but this one was so wonderful! It was well-written, touched on a lot of sticky issues in a really open, but tactful way, and the first person narration felt very authentic. The "twist" was fairly obvious to an adult, but I have no doubt that lots of kids' jaws dropped. I will definitely be recommending this book to all the middle schoolers I know.
I think I wanted something a little more realistic and I was hoping the author was going to tie things up in a different way than I saw playing out.
Don't get me wrong though, the end didn't spoil the book for me, I just felt like things could have gone differently.I think a lot of people will enjoy this book for years to come; it's funny, heart-warming, at times sad, and has a great mystery as well.
I liked the New York setting, the kids running around on their own with latch keys, and the visits to the sub shop at lunch time.
The story is about Miranda, who lives with her mom in New York, and whose favorite book is A Wrinkle in Time, which is one of my favorite books, too.
Miranda and her mom's boyfriend help her practice.Miranda's friendship with downstairs neighbor Sal is suffering, and she's not sure why.
I'm still wondering if it really works, in this book...I'm thinking I missed something, that I'd benefit from a re-reading.
Shouldn't I be thinking about friendship, and sacrifice, and stuff?Newbery winner 2010.
Tiny, tremendous book!
True story – I was reading this morning in the waiting room at the doctor's office.
Twelve-year-old Miranda starts getting notes that say things like, "I'm coming to save your friend's life."This is a bitty little book, but every second of it works.
Miranda is a perfect twelve-year-old, and this book does a whole lot of sixth-grader relationship work in a very small space.
And behind that and the wonderful cast of characters is another story, a creepier, scarier, sadder one.
Just tremendous.
I had heard lots of good things about When You Reach Me. I read several excellent reviews about it.
Then, our Children's Librarian chose it for her Book Thieves Book Group.
So I waited a bit to hear how the group liked it.
I'm quite impressed that The Book Thieves got the story.
There's rumor's that lots of adults are choosing Young Adult books to read these days.
Though a bit younger, When You Reach Me, is certainly a good choice for the middle school age group.
If you're a fan of well written young adult novels, you can't go wrong with Stead's book.
This book was really good! I'm giving this book 8. 5 stars because it was so amazing. In love how everything was tied together all into one outcome. I will write a better review later on because I'm on a bus right now!
