https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117565.The_Temptation_to_Exist
Really, Emil?
But just FYI, Emil: we do that all the freaking time.
Reviewing a book by Cyril Connolly, who happened to be an old friend of his, Orwell wrote:Obviously, modern mechanised life becomes dreary if you let it.
The awful thraldom of money is upon everyone and there are only three immediately obvious escapes.
The third is certainly the worst, but in any case the essential evil is to think in terms of escape.
And for what it's worth, I'd say that last line contains more wisdom and nobility than the entire published output of Emil Cioran.
Poor Cioran. I often think of him as he was depicted in the introduction to  On the Heights of Despair , a withered old man with a thick sprouting of silver straw flaming from his skull, softly admitting to Ilinca Zarifopol-Johnston that he was weary of slandering the universe; in the end, even the great decrier slumped back against the walls of our earthly prison. Imagine being such an acute and acerbic diagnostician of despair, decay, and delusion, and yet fully aware that not only was there n

How can one resist this title - just the title alone! One of the great cynical thinkers in the 20th Century. I recently discovered him, and once I read this book, i had to go out and get every title by this incredible writer. Good volume to have by the bedside, when you have one of those nightmares that wake you up. When he's there, the real nightmare happens!
Bir başka yazım sırasına göre okuduğum kişi ve kitaplar da Cioran'ın eserleridir. Eğer bilmediğim başka eser yoksa 2 kitap sonra bitiyor ve tüm eserleri kapsayan genel bir yazı yazmaya çalışacağım.
Cioran mi diverte, nel senso più puro e completo del termine.
In un'epoca dominata da un pragmatismo acritico ai limiti dell'idiozia, i suoi pensieri sfondano le più elementari barriere concettuali con sfrontatezza.
Il suo nihilismo appare pesante, funereo e privo di respiro, solo a chi non riesce mai a liberarsi dal proprio "determinismo necessario"; a chi è incatenato alla propria, militante, monodimensionalità di vedute.
Salvo poi, in caso, non condividere; comunque ringraziando.Questo è un testo fondativo, essenziale, nel quale riconoscere i cardini della speculazione contemporanea sull'essere.
Precorre i tempi, anche storici, disegnando implicitamente (già nel 1956) i contorni del degrado inglorioso dell'Uomo, cui assistiamo oggi.
Bu kitabında zaman konusuna eğilmemiş (ben aslında böyle bir beklenti içindeydim) ama eğilmediği de konu kalmamış. İyi kitaptı.
Any positive stance we take on the question of Being is not just a gamble anymore, but pre-determines its own "exact mode of collapse." The self creates its world ex-nihilo, unsupported by any meaning-producing encounter with the world.
Ultimately, Cioran shows just how little grounding is left for the self that is determined to place its -entire- life into question (and not just select domains within that life, as past philosophers did).
All this Cioran denies and treats as a self-alienating projection onto the inhuman world of meanings that we create.
The only essay that grabbed me at all is "on a winded civilization".
It has some fine insights on the meta-psychology (I'm just making up a word that doesn't really mean anything here) of cultural decay -- which he dates (Anti-Enlightenment guy that he is) from the end of the 18th cen.And even that very brief essay mostly bored me.
A lot of it is just verbal fluff, I'm afraid.But then again, maybe it's me...One problem is, in talking about the decay of Europe, and the vitality of the Huns -- there's a not-so-subtle glorification here of the Nazis -- and this, long AFTER he's supposed to have given up that particular vice....
Çürümenin Kitabı'ndan sonra kalemine vurulduğum Cioran'dan bir inci daha.
Agresif, öfkeli ve umutsuz bir yazar Cioran.
Bu kitapta da yine dinleri, din adamlarını, sanatı, romanı, sanatçıyı ve var olmayı sorunsallaştırıyor.
İntihara eğilimli olsa da yazarak hayata tutunuyor Cioran.
Hem kendine hem de dünyaya kin, öfke ve nefret kusuyor ama yine de dünyayı sevmekten alıkoyamıyor kendini.
Depresif, melankolik ve kasvetli yazılar yazmış olsa da Cioran'ın 84 yaşına kadar yaşamış olması da bir parça ironik.
Cioran'ın dili beni ne kadar yaralasa da ben de onu okumaktan alıkoyamıyorum kendimi.
Beyin yakan, zihin açan ve can acıtan bir şeyler okumak istiyorsanız Cioran'ı mutlaka okuyun.
Now, down to some specifics:"Thinking Against Oneself": I couldn't agree more with Cioran's statement about it being a mistake for Western minds to expect themselves to be able to live Eastern philosophies, "truths incompatible with their nature." Joseph Campbell said much the same thing: that it was a mistake for people raised in Western culture to seek a guru and try to transform themselves into something totally alien to their history.
Those who preside over her destiny, those who take her interests to heart, should prepare her for bad times; in order to cease being a superficial monster, she requires an ordeal of major scope.
Este, pentru mine, de departe cea mai bună carte a lui Cioran (a scris-o pe când avea 45 de ani).
Și când mă gândesc cât îmi mai ardea sângele la acele urlete pe care acum (cand imi par nesfarsit de ridicole!) abia dacă le mai pot îndura.
Acum nu mă mai pot oferi în mod absolut decât îndoielii, care nu necesită din parte-mi nicio intensitate - ba dimpotrivă, pentru a-și asigura viitorul, pentru a putrezi liniștită în mine, îndoiala îmi cultivă calmul, paralizându-mă în blândețe și duioșie, dorindu-mă incapabil să mă revolt, condamnându-mă să rămân până în mormânt, un cumpătat prin nehotarâre.
i kept thinking, while reading cioran, of what sheeper said about edward dahlberg: "Read [him] but pay no attention to anything he says.
The quotations he burdens his work with are never to the point, and, as he is incapable of placing two sentences in logical order, such a thing as a quiet, scholarly paragraph let alone essay or chapter is outside his reach.
i'll admit part of the rub for me was that first essay, which has as its point the justification or rationalization of "western man's" inability to accept the "eastern truth" of taoism and the buddha.
Fixar o que de importante aqui foi dito:«Aniquilamento primaveril, consumação mais do que abismo, a morte dá-nos vertigens apenas para melhor nos elevar acima de nós próprios, como faz o amor, com o qual ela se aparenta sob diversos aspectos: uma e outro, forçando o quadro da nossa existência até o fazer explodir, desintegram-nos e fortificam-nos, arruínam-nos pelos atalhos da plenitude.
Se, até certo ponto, o amor nos perde, através de que sensações de dilatação e orgulho o não faz!
E se a morte nos perde por completo, com que frémitos nos arrasta!

He lost me during 'Beyond The Novel'.It's hard for me to see beyond a cynicism, brooding fascism, and a genuine disdain for the human condition.
This is my second try, and every time I pick Cioran up I just end up wanting to throw the book across the room.There's just something about a guy who refers to the construct of the novel as 'The rubbish of Western Civilization...' then goes on to proclaim the need for the return to the Philosophical antiquarians because to attempt to study the character of man through literature is futile, because apparently we already know ourselves to be nothing.
"Il Nulla era senz'altro più confortevole"La morte di cui racconta E. M. Cioran, - Questa morte e Quella, "dato immediato" e "stato limite" - non è Perdita di occasioni. E' l'indicibile Occasione. Perduta. Per chi, maldestramente, scientemente, onniscientemente, evita di 'sostenerla' con voluttà.Sì, avete letto bene.
Who the fuck would actually want to exist?
I found these essays dull and repetitive. The one on "the Jew" was repellent and strange. Who in the modern world talks about Jewish people as cursed to be separate from all others?
„Tiranul din noi freamătă; simte nevoia să facă ceva, să se descarce de furia lui, să se răzbune; și se răzbună pe noi.
De fiecare dată când am crezut că-l găsisem, eram nevoit, după o cercetare atentă, să reduc din pretenţii: noul ales avea şi el câte-o pată, câte-un cusur, resturi ascunse de inconştienţă sau slăbiciune ce-l coborau la nivelul comun.
Ghiceam la el urme ale dorinţei, ale speranţei - sau umbra câte unui regret.
Era o nebunie să-l concepi: nu putea să existe, luciditatea absolută fiind incompatibilă cu realitatea organelor.”      „Dacă mi-aş face inventarul zilelor, probabil n-aş găsi niciuna care să nu facă, singură, cât mai multe iaduri la un loc.”      „Mă atrag lucrurile care n-au şansa să se-mplinească ori să dăinuie.”
Deeply flawed yet deeply interesting. The final two essays, “Rages and Resignations” and the titular piece, are by far the strongest. More cynical and skewed than his French Existentialist contemporaries, Cioran resonates with a 21st-century audience all the more deeply. (Though his European male privilege is on full display as well.)Philosophy sucks, which is why we read it. There’s a lot here to appreciate, even as there’s a lot here that sucks.
He is a remarkable writer and has many incites into the dark truths about people and the times we are living.
He asks the right questions and sees the abyss fairly clearly but his outlook which is a dark, romantic, nationalistic and in love with vigor and action are the kinds of answers to our despairing situation that lead to bad responses namely fascism.
It is pleasurable to read his prose but disappointing to see many people come up with his answers to this problem this life that we find ourselves living in now between the eternities.
Questo libro è un lungo aforisma.
Cinico, sagace, ironico, Cioran esplora, con la sua prosa eccelsa, gli argomenti più disparati, dalla letteratura alla teologia, dai commenti biografici all'ontologia, mettendone in risalto i lati paradossali e contraddittori, ridicolizzandoli con intelligenza e, di fatto, facendoli a pezzi, con quel nichilismo ridente o, meglio, sogghignante, che lo contraddistingue.
A metà tra Nietzsche e il Pessoa del Libro dell'inquietudine, Cioran parla a ruota libera, lontano da qualsiasi sistematicità o struttura, passando agilmente dall'imminenza delle sue vicessitudini personali alle questioni più astratte e intellettuali.
Ne risulta un libro pesante, che richiede un'attenzione continua e una riflessione ininterrotta: ma i contenuto brillante e la scrittura (non mi stancherò mai di dirlo) sublime saranno un premio valido.
I can't figure out if I love or hate this dude.
He's like the Don Rickles of philosophers--he spares no one a ripping (Proust, Balzac, Voltaire, etc.).
Though he does seem to sport wood for Gogol and Nietzsche, but even then the praise feels backhanded.
In the essay, "Some Blind Alleys: A letter," Cioran writes, "Poem, novel, essay, play--everything seems to long.
The writer--it is his function--always says more than he has to say: he swells his thought and swathes it with words.
Every word is a de trop.
Yet the question is: to write.
Let us write..., let us dupe each other.
E.M. Cioran turns out to be the arrogant bore you wish you hadn't invited to dinner. I have to admit here that I ducked out of dinner early, in the middle of the second essay.I was bombarded with assertions that were supported only by wit, and wit isn't enough. And if what's being asserted is supposed to be self-evident without developing argument, what's the point?I should invent a did-not-finish bookshelf, just for this one. My usual rule is, "You bought it, now you finish it!" Impossible.
"it is by refining our excruciations that we become conscious of ourselves"
Astfel, printre altele, deşi într-o scrisoare a sa compatimeşte un tânăr care vrea să fie scriitor, atrăgându-i atenția cu privire  la imposibilitatea de a scrie ceva nou, la dezgustul scormonirii propriei răni (în proaspătul val al scrierii subiective), la orgoliul cosmic al artistului şi la felul în care el "lungeşte pelteaua", disecându-şi suferințele în mii de rânduri ce ar putea fi reduse la o frază, şi în fond, la nimic, tot el afirmă că "mai ușor se renunță la pâine decat la cuvânt".
Tot ce condamnă el sfarşeşte prin a ierta printr-un oftat, căci tarele lumii le recunoaște în el însuși.
Según Emil Cioran, todo éxito es un malentendido. Y bueno, tal vez sí. Un afortunado malentendido.Todo un personaje este señor. Bien podría ser uno de los referentes filosóficos del pesimismo racional.El libro es filosofía existencialista no muy "comercial". Cioran es de esos pensadores enojados con medio mundo que le vale un pepino lo que la gente entienda de sus textos.Un libro más aburrido que interesante. Se puede existir sin él.
"Una religione s’instaura sul crollo di una saggezza: i raggiri di quella non si addicono a questa. Gli uomini preferiranno sempre disperare in ginocchio piuttosto che in piedi. Alla salvezza, sono la loro viltà e la loro fatica che vi aspirano, la loro incapacità di elevarsi all’inconsolabilità e di trovarvi ragioni d’orgoglio." (p. 164)
A collection of essays in order to reflect about our culture and ourselves in it. Not very easy to read but also not that hard - demands ones attention. Dynamite of similar caliber as Nietzsches. Just two further notes: 1) I was perplexed how similar was his and my style of writting. Truly "jesuitic"...2) Not something to read before bedtime if you want to sleep afterwards.
A collection of essays in order to reflect about our culture and ourselves in it. Not very easy to read but also not that hard - demands one´s attention. Dynamite of similar caliber as Nietzsche´s. Just two further notes: 1) I was perplexed how similar was his and my style of writting. Truly "jesuitic"...2) Not something to read before bedtime if you want to sleep afterwards.
Excellent book. Not for a day when you are feeling down.
