https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25734248-the-widow
but reading this i just never had that moment you have as a reader when a book clobbers you; that hard to pin down sparklethe thing about Gone Girl that made it noteworthy isn't that it was a great psychological suspense novel.
it's the recognition of "there but for the…" encouraging the reader to take a hard look at themselves and their relationship and questioning whether they (or their partner) had gotten complacent and lazy and could either of them be doing better or giving more in order to avoid resentment and … consequences.The Girl on the Train was the next big psych suspense hit marketed as Gone Girl and it provided some of the same appeal factors as Gone Girl but it was less ambitious, less surprising, and less lasting.
But the book jacket is a LIE!This book is about a dishrag of a woman who married a horrible man who's probably a child murdering pedophile.
You are told whats going on, you already know who did it, and then you get to the end where what you already knew is verified by the characters and (if you are me) you put the book down and stare at it quizzically for a minute thinking "heh?"Look I'm not saying that every mystery has to have a twist ending but don't sucker me into thinking I'm going to read a book about a woman who's such a master manipulator that she's managed to con a pedophile into marrying her so she can use him as a scapegoat, or a book about a quick witted narcissist who's playing every single person she encounters who think they can get her to do anything when you're really writing some kind of lame character study.This was honestly a huge waste of time.
(You could have lost the frequency of some of those other POVs without much impact, too.) It's also remarkable how lacking in tension this felt, and how facile the emotions and plot machinations.
And given how serious the crimes were, the writing style and glossing over of certain scenarios or lack of detail often felt like a cop-out.
Was this supposed to feel distant/occasionally humorous?
On the one hand, it does work in the plot's withholding-key-information/half-unreliable narrator thing.
I like being surprised by thrillers, not checking constantly to see how many more pages there are until things are wrapped up.
3.5 StarsI've now listened to a quite a few audio-books and I'm starting to enjoy them more and more.
There have been one or two that I didn't care for, but that may have been the same if I had read the book.
Told from the viewpoints of The Widow (Jean), The Detective, The Reporter, The Husband (Glenn), and The Mother.
The majority of the story is told from Jean/Jeanie Taylor's (The Widow) point of view.
Jean's husband Glenn was just killed in a freak bus accident.
I really enjoyed hearing the story from all the different perspectives.
Firstly let me say that I am beginning to tire of publishers who pump out books with the following description, as it seems to come with every new Thriller on the market of late. My opinion is that if a blurb is good enough a book will sell regardless and doesn't need the hype of Gone Girl or Girl on the Train in the description.Example:  For fans of Gone Girl and The Girl on the Train, an electrifying thriller that will take you into the dark spaces that exist between a husband and a wife. I en
Firstly let me say that I am beginning to tire of publishers who pump out books with the following description, as it seems to come with every new Thriller on the market of late.
My opinion is that if a blurb is good enough a book will sell regardless and doesn't need the hype of Gone Girl or Girl on the Train in the description.Example: 
Well yes, that's actually entirely possible - it is a novel of the type very much in the public eye at the moment, domestic noir, unreliable narrator, girls, sisters, daughters, wives or whatever and secrets.Fiona Barton writes extremely well in places, I have no problem whatsoever with that, knows how to pull you into a story yes, pootles around the reveals yes - The Widow has a high readability factor in many ways.
My problems with The Widow are similar to the problems a lot of readers had with The Girl on a Train and Disclaimer (two books that actually I loved so there's your reading mantra, we all see things differently) And it's nothing new.
She never once thought of him as a barbarian beast monster.....However,Jeanie said she couldn't live with a man who looked at pictures of children the way he does.
Some of them are really in their thirties." "But they look like children, they do it for people who want to see children and men doing those things." Jeanie Taylor accepts that her husband is just a bloke doing his nonsense.
Jeanie loves her husband ...
and Jeanie keeps her husband's secrets because she feels she caused their troubles with her own obsession.
The Widow is a psychological suspense novel about Jean whose husband has died recently and now she has to decide how much to reveal about the crimes he was being investigated for. The books is a good read for when you just want something light and it kept my attention but it wasn't anything special. The characters were okay and you kind of know where the story is going to go as soon as you start reading it. There aren't really any surprises.
and for a while she wasn't sure if he was guilty or not and has to pretend that she doesn't suspect him and doesn't notice his strange behavior.
When he is gone for good, she no longer has to pretend and she can tell the truth to the press or make up her own version.
Unfortunately, I wasn't grabbed by the story, didn't find it suspenseful, immediately grasped what Jeans' husband's "nonsense" was and was not invested in the characters.
I gave it 3 stars however, because the writing was good and the characters were well developed.
It came as a surprise to me that this book was the author's first.
Despite the flaws, I think there are promising signs.
The plot came from a very interesting concept and, as a hook, really made me think the book was going to offer something surprising.
Barton's note at the beginning was intriguing- who are those people that stand behind the men/women who are branded a 'monster' for their crimes?
This was because I wasn't accepting anything at face value and was waiting for the moment of surprise.
THE WIDOW by Fiona Barton is a gripping debut psychological thriller that deals with the premise of the story-How much does the widow of a suspected kidnapper/ paedophile know about what he is alleged to have done?What secrets are hidden inside a marriage?
They include:(1)	A single Mother, Dawn, who has her 2-year-old child abducted.(2)	The Husband, Glen-the main suspect, but no proof.
LET THE TRUTH COME OUT!The chapters alternate between these main characters, each one remembering their recollection from the time of the abduction until Glen's death.
Such a gripping debut novel…all I wanted to know was the truth!
It’s often a bit like watching a toddler on a tricycle when you buy one of those novels, you know.
It’s like, can the work ride on its own right out of the gate, or will it be wobbly on the training wheels that the publisher and public expectations have placed on it, needing them as props?
Some may not like “creepy” or the way that it was offered here, but I LOVE it because it’s so much harder to pull off than “scary” or “gross.” “Creepy” toys with the mind in its subtlety.
The Widow is not a book filled with twists & turns so I wouldn't consider it a thriller. The Widow just has a simmering sense of dread through out the entire book. The reason I didn't give it 4 stars is because the characters weren't very deep. I didn't really feel connected to any of the characters in the book. The one character I felt closest to is Bella and we never actually get to meet her. If you like psychological thrillers I would recommend it but there are way better ones out there.
This is a good read, but really not comparable to those two.Second, I didn't like one single character in the whole story.
Each chapter was dated, and often would jump from present time to the past.
I had to go back to the start of each chapter many times to confirm which time frame it was in.But...there was a lot of good in this book that I did like, for example: -It certainly kept me guessing!
-While I didn't like any of the characters, I have to say the author certainly made them memorable with unique quirks and flaws.
But the one lesson Jean has learned in the last few years is that she can make people believe anything… MY THOUGHTS: Put simply - I loved this book!Jean's husband Glen, a cold controlling man with a penchant for porn, is accused of abducting BellaElliot the gorgeous toddler daughter of Donna.
Jean, ever the dutiful wife, stands by her man despite the things she discovers about him along the way.After Glen's death, everyone wants to talk to 'the widow', sure she knows more than she let on, hopeful that she will reveal all now that Glen is not there to control her.The dispassionate style of writing only serves to emphasise the awfulness of what has happened.
So I’ve already written a review recently about the bumper crop of child abduction themed books I’ve read in the last year.
I swear that I didn’t know that The Widow focused on another disappearing child.
I probably should have read the blurb more carefully, but the title in fairness does not suggest child abduction.
Anyways, as I point out in my review of What She Knew, I’ve quite enjoyed some of these books although I swear it’s not a theme I seek out.
The story jumps around in time from Bella’s abduction to Glen’s death, slowly revealing what happened and Jean’s perspective on the whole thing.
This book touched me so deeply that I simply cannot talk about it. Anything I say will destroy the feelings I am left with.I don't even want to fall back on clichés such as magnificent, wonderful, brilliant, unbelievableMy emotional reaction to this book astounds me. I urgently need to take a walk ... Later then.
Jeanie, do not call her Jean, has to face the possibility that her husband Glen in addition to being guilty of viewing internet pornography may also be the pedophile that abducted and possibly murdered Bella.
After all Jeanie and Glen can’t have children and Jeanie would give anything to have a beautiful child like Bella.
Can Jeanie continue to swear allegiance to Glen when she’s certain he has looked at pictures of women dressed as children, what she comes to term as his nonsense?
Steve West as The Husband and Jayne Entwistle, The Mother, read smaller, but key parts to flesh out the rest of the story.The Widow stands on well it's own merits.
3.5 starsI jumped at the chance to read an arc of the third book in this series, The Suspect, even though I hadn't read the previous books in the series.
Definitely love her writing style and can't wait to read the second book.Jean Taylor and her husband were thrust into the spotlight after Glen was suspected of committing a crime.
For that reason, I obviously enjoyed the story more for the characters rather than the mystery or suspense elements.
I do enjoy how the author uses multiple characters to tell the story rather than just one.
Definitely recommend as a solid read.
Once I finished this book, I had to let it settle in my mind for a little while.
Now that I‘ve had time to reflect on it all, I believe the plot is well written and very crafty.
So, in conclusion, I would strongly urge those fans of suspense and psychological thrillers, to approach this book with an open mind, and allow it to stand on its own merits, which it is quite capable of doing without further comparisons.This review is the copyrighted property of Night Owl Reviews.
It seemed like a pleasant change from the normal scenarios for crime/psychological thriller type reads.The story starts off very strongly and I enjoyed it at first but to be honest it fizzles out pretty quickly.
Jean, as a character, in all fairness isn’t strong enough to carry the story on her own.
She doesn’t do a lot for most of the read, and not much happens to her, most of the action seems to go on around her.After a while the story does start to drag a bit, especially with the overlap in some of the different viewpoints.
3.5 - 4 StarsThe widow is a fast paced thriller that opens with the female protagonist telling the reader her husband has just died in front of her eyes.
As the story unfolds showcasing the past and present, the reader learns more about more about the relationship between husband and wife, the crime he was accused of and the actions of Jean Taylor and her character.
The Widow was read by my local book club and there was a definite mix of those who were not entirely enamoured with the story and those who very much enjoyed.
If you’re a fan of Thrillers and enjoy a good page-turner, The Widow is certainly worth a read!
I've read both and this book doesn't resemble either of them, remotely.It's a debut book for Fiona Barton.
Still not sure if this head-hopping really works, since the whole idea of the book was seeing it from the widow's point of view (and the other characters were wooden and one-dimensional).The book is only okay for me.
I was propelled along only by the morbid curiosity of what was going to pop out of the box at the end rather than caring about any of the players.
(Sadly, the ending wasn't much of a surprise either!)
The Widow is a standalone, psychological thriller written by seasoned journalist and now fiction writer: Fiona Barton.
So she gained further inspiration from documented criminal cases as well as her own imagination and wrote a story about the widow of a man found guilty of a horrible crime.
In The Widow, Ms. Barton wrote about a parent's worst nightmare and the investigation that ensues.
She wrote about the alleged perpetrator and the submissive little wife that stayed by his side.
But ultimately, she wrote about power dynamics in relationships, whether it's between a husband and wife or a journalist and subject.
And to say much of it is unflattering is an understatement, especially after the primary suspect is killed in a bizarre accident.The story is told in alternating points of view from the lead detective, a key reporter, the mother and the wife of the suspect (there are a couple of others who only have one scene).
The narration was very well done and I found the use of multiple performers essential, especially given the alternating points of view and flashbacks.
This was an interesting and disturbing story, not just because of the subject matter but the disappointing behaviors of most of those involved.
Ignorance is bliss....Until I started reading it and got messages like.."You are going to enjoy this Sue"and"Its an amazing read"When I hear that, I think....hhmmmm I hope so.But if its from some reviewers who I know is 'spot on' then it makes all the difference and I got some of those, so I thought.....yes!I have to honestly say that I am gobsmacked this is Fiona Barton's debut book.
This story is told between four people, the wife, the husband's mother, the detective and the reporter.
The story is fast and dark involving a missing child, an abused wife, and a husband who is living one life and hiding another.
The premise for the story is great, but I don't want to say too much more or I may give parts of the plot away.
Lets just say though that I did find it hard to connect with these characters probably due to the fact that all of them were living a lie in one way or another, lies that can ruthlessly destroy others.
As it happens Glen was the prime suspect in the disappearance of a two-year-old girl, Bella Elliot, who was kidnapped from an English suburb several years ago (and never found).
The story is told from rotating points of view including the widow; the reporter; the detective, Bob Sparks; and Bella's mother, Dawn Elliot.
Detective Bob Sparks is convinced Glen is guilty though there are some other possible suspects.
Top 50 Books of 2016!Smartly written, Fiona Barton’s debut THE WIDOW,  most definitely lives up to the hype-a wicked, deliciously evil, slow-burning, taut psychological suspense—the author definitely knows her way around the media, investigations, obsessions, and crazies.
Filled with complex and intimate glimpses into the lives ruled by obsession, crisis, and fear; where mood and characters drive the novel—Thought-provoking; creating a dark, chilling, disturbing and unsettling tone.
She is crafty and works herself smoothly inside the door, for her kill.Why the interest in Jean?Kate wants the story.
Does Jean know what Glen did with Bella?
در زمان امتحانات کتاب هایی بخونید که صرفا جنبه سرگرمی داشته باشند. :دیمن ترجمه پگاه ملکیان رو خوندم که خیلی خوب نبود و بیشتر از ترجمه، ویراستاری کتاب جا برای کار بیشتر داشت.
