https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108942.Bad_Luck_and_Trouble
This is one of those books that made me want to turn the pages faster so I could see what would happen next, but at the same time, made me so scared just thinking about all the bad things that could possibly happen to the protagonists.The story started off with a shocking scene where a man was sent free falling 3,000 feet into the empty California desert below.
And this is where Reacher and his three old friends from the army’s special investigations unit had teamed up to seek out the truth and the persons behind the murders of their friends.
(well, I do) I like the author's style but I can imagine it can annoy - but I fell in love with Reacher when he was younger and sassier (weren't we all) and have remained faithful eevr since.
Some of the other books have been poor on plot, but this one's good - though I think the author's chickening out of anything too gory or heart-breaking for the reader as time goes on.
I like the plots where Reacher has to contend with a hostile character, not just a criminal setting.
There're are lots of hard-as-nails protagonists out there, from Mike Hammer to Travis McGee to Harry Bosch, but for me, Jack Reacher is not only the toughest, but also my favorite.The New York Times claims that Lee Child is "The best thriller writer of the moment." I think this is true, but an understatement.
Who is a better thriller writer than Child?As for Bad Luck and Trouble, I particularly liked knowing a bit more about his old elite MP military unit.
I'm less impressed with the repetitiveness of Reacher as I finish up this entire series. 3 of 10 stars
I hadn't read Reacher in quite some time, so this was my next in the series that I was up to that I had lying around. Well actually it was on a book shelf. :) Nothing like reading "that great beach read", when my neck of the woods was in single digits! Another action-packed, petal to the metal, cinematic feel getaway with our favorite loner, Jack. **maybe why I hadn't picked one up in awhile - when I heard that height challenged Cruise was going to play Reacher on the big screen - still pisses me off! :)
However, I do write my reviews (or in the case of this series) my random thoughts right after finishing a book so I am still on a high after finishing this one.
I felt that the plot was interesting and thought-provoking with enough to keep me eager to turn the pages however it was Reacher and the characters he was on this journey with that kept me gripped throughout.
Only two other series of books has this happened in, the ending of every Harry Bosch novel and Harry Potter when he returns home for the summer and waves everyone goodbye.
In this one, that pacing goes out the window and most of it is "detective", which sucks when the protagonist and his cohorts are missing obvious clues and stumbling around like idiots.The villains in this novel aren't much better than the protagonists.
They just keep on making idiotic mistakes that seem inconceivable given their prior records of being clever and careful.In summary, if you are fan of the Reacher series, but don't tolerate a lot of idiocy in your pulp fiction, you may want to skip this one.
Everyone simply calls/called him Reacher, even his parents) is drawn into a murderous situation when it comes to his attention that someone is killing off his old team from Army Special Investigations.
Jack would anso have been sent a "sucker plea" except no one can ever find him.Aside from the long running problems of the series ([Jack] Reacher is huge [well over 6 feet] and hitch-hikes looking like a giant homeless guy.
) The book gives us a look at the onteraction of Reacher and his team, where they have all ended up and so on.So good action, nice story and no bogging sown with Child's personal views on...well everything.
So. good book.
Instead of sleeping, I read this instead. Then I had trouble getting to sleep. I was still pumped up from Jack Reacher kicking ass! Even worse, I had the next book in the series whispering, "Read me."
Wasn't nearly as action packed as I had hoped.
Some might think the Reacher books by Lee Child are more suited to a male audience, but, hey, this is the era of the kickass girl.As a woman who took karate in Okinawa (decades ago before that was a common thing) with an Army tank of a sensei, I like to think I fit the kickass paradigm.
You may find you enjoy them too.If you've ever watched The Unit starring Dennis Haysbert then it's not a great stretch to imagine if The Unit personnel retired and wrote books, the books would be pretty much like a Jack Reacher novel.In Bad Luck and Trouble, members of Reacher's Special Investigators are being killed.
Read it, and you too will be buying another Jack Reacher novel from Lee Child.
Good late night change of pace after reading Austen's archaic prose earlier in evening.
According to the massive ad campaign for his newest book, Child seems to be the latest boss of the hard-boiled crime scene, complete with damaged, loner anti-hero hero as protag.
Only 30 pgs into it, but so far, so good.
The prose is pretty blunt and spare -- more Hammett than Chandler -- but effective.I stopped reading a few weeks ago,after a 100+ pgs, and haven't felt compelled to return to it.
To put it simply, the story got dull -- not a good sign for a mystery.
I've probably abandoned it for good.
Great book the very best lots of old friends reacher at his best 5 stars
3-starsThis book starts off well, with a terrifying action sequence, and Neagley's clever call-for-help to Reacher.
Here he has three partners, and the dialogue becomes over-complicated and repetitive in places.Also, there are many plot holes and some unlikely behaviours.The climax starts well, then becomes quite predictable and a bit dull.All-in-all, one of the worst Reachers.Notes and quotes:I do enjoy the variety of smash-downs Child provides for Reacher:The guy fell sideways, slowly, like a bulldozed tree.
This seems very unlikely for Reacher and Neagley.Dull, gratuitous sex scene here.
Neagley looked blank.“I know the song,” Reacher said.
Jesse HolianMrs. EbarviaHonors World Lit.November 27, 2007Bad Luck and Trouble Book Review Bad Luck and Trouble by Lee Child was the novel I read. This book is the 11th book, the newest one, in a series about a man named Jack Reacher. Some of the other books in this series are The Enemy, The Hard Way, and One Shot. Lee Child has also written many short stories including “Bloodlines”, “The Chopin Manuscript”, and “Death do us Part”. The newest piece of literature written by Lee Child is Bad Luck
Jesse HolianMrs. EbarviaHonors World Lit.November 27, 2007Bad Luck and Trouble Book Review	Bad Luck and Trouble by Lee Child was the novel I read.
The newest piece of literature written by Lee Child is Bad Luck and Trouble, the novel I read.
Each sentence also uses great descriptive adjectives to tell you about every place, person, and thing in the novel.
I think Lee Child did an amazing job writing this book.
The book is well written, descriptive, meaningful, exhilarating, and very enjoyable to read.
Overall, Lee Child did an outstanding job in this novel.
The excessive details and repetitions (I liked "From the big green machine to this") were absolutely appropriate but some passages and even whole scenes (for instance, the fight in the tarot reader's place and unsuccessful robbery in the pawn shop) could be removed for good.
The author could as well make all bad guys commit massive suicide due to sudden rash of remorse.
The villains removed the obstacle in the form of four agents, waited for two weeks and just as the deal was about to get round they went hormonal and invited four more.
Oh, well, yet another author I won't read again.
I thought I would have loved this book, some previous characters were back and it started off well. But so far through I got really bored and there was a lot of detailed information that Lee Child is known to get carried away with and for me the story didn’t pick up again until the last 100 pages.
Silly but fun, as long as you don't think about the plot too much. Criminal overlord plan: If you're worried about an excellent team of investigators showing up to investigate a murder you've committed, and you want to lure them in on your own terms, wait until after you complete your $65 million deal with terrorists.
I've been wondering if/when Jack might start to wonder what's happening in and with his life and I love that Child is taking it so slow.It's funny, too, how out of touch he is with modern technology, especially his use of a cell phone.
It's fascinating to read how he and Neagley try to figure out what Franz's password is for his computer.
Although it's a bit frightening to think of less upright people doing the same things.There are a number of reason I love this series.
If he contacted all the others.They haven't much to start with, but Reacher's way of getting inside someone's head stands them in good stead.
This was one of my favorite in the Jack Reacher series so far, though all have been good and different enough to keep me interested.
I just love Lee Child's writing style, creativity in coming up with unique scenarios, and Reacher's logical approach to solving crimes and mysteries.
I knocked off one star because I don't care for the gratuitous killings that Reacher commits in pursuit of justice.
Knock 'em out, sure, but it's unrealistic that Reacher can murder people in cold blood (even though they are "bad guys") in every story and yet always walk away free.
But they sure are fun to read!
Bad Luck and Trouble (Jack Reacher #11), Lee Childعنوان: بدشانسی و دردسر - کتاب 11 - از سری جک ریچر؛ نویسنده: لی چایلد؛ مترجم: محمد عباس آبادی؛ تهران، تندیس، 1395؛ در 557 ص؛ شابک: 9786001822070؛

Book number 11 in the Jack Reacher series by Lee Child.
And who taught Lee Child to do math - they stole $65 million from the bad guys but Reacher's cut was only a hundred thousand dollars - what happened to all the rest?
And thinking of math - overdone, redundant, and boring - once we were told that Reacher and "what's her name" were numbers freaks, we didn't need the constant demonstration of it - and why wasn't it a big thing in any of the previous books?
The symbolism, Reacher realises that he's being summoned to help someone from his military past.
After discovering that a member of his MP squad has been murdered, Reacher and the surviving members begin an investigation of their own.
Bringing together the old 'rag-tag' crew permits a flashback to the life that Reacher lived while a military police officer without shifting the entire story into the past.
A stellar piece of work that permits Reacher's ever-evolving character to develop on his own, while still showing that he has what it takes to hold onto his investigative prowess.
Jack Reacher, the imposing nomadic action hero of Lee Child's popular series, returns in the 11th book in the series, "Bad Luck and Trouble".
The band, in this case, is the special military investigative unit he was a part of when he was an Army MP.
Someone may be targeting members of the original Unit, or it may just be a weird coincidence, but Reacher and the others take on the case."Bad Luck and Trouble" is another classic Child book.
In this case, the normally "lone-wolf" Reacher is now part of an ensemble, and Child does a great job of introducing three new characters who could easily have their own "backstory" novel.
I thought maybe I'd simply struck Lee Childs on a bad day when I read the execrable The Affair- after all, a series can't be that bad when it manages to maintain readership for 16 books, can it?
Once again, it's a series of clumsily-narrated, unbelievable escapades in violence and bull-headed machismo, glorifying the simple-minded excesses of a cast of sociopathic cartoon figures without a shred of depth, sympathy or character arc between them.
Child is so busy portraying Jack Reacher, the titular hero, as some kind of modern Conan-equivalent, complete with all that character's overly-superhuman attributes, that the plot is cobbled together only to give the reader scene after scene of climaxless build-up.
ג׳ק ריצ׳ר מגלה שמישהו מחסל חברים שלו מהשרות הצבאי ויוצא לטפל באותו מישהו.זה הספר השני של ג׳ק ריצ׳ר שאני קורא והוא מוצלח יותר מהקודם. גם בזה אין תחכום או דמויות מורכבות אבל יש הרבה אקשן.ריצ׳ר הוא דמות מפעם. חזק, אמיץ, הורג בלי להתלבט ובסוף רוכב אל השקיעה.
Another preposterous but fun tale of Jack Reacher. This tine dragged into a conspiracy that had already killed at least one member of his former unit - the rest of them must reform to seek revenge and save the world....
Aug 2017 - Audio Book with Dick Hill - I loved this book even more the 2nd time around. March 2015 - Really enjoyed this book
My all time fave JR book.
