https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133664.Academ_s_Fury
2.5/5 StarsAnother okay installment in the Codex Alera series, it’s time for me to part way with this series.I’m going to keep this review short, I actually can copy my review for the first book here to explain why I won’t be continuing with this series.
Also, this series actually featured a lot of romance and I’m generally not a big fan of romance in my fantasy read.Characters are still very hard to care, I kept on wishing the entire plot to focus only on Tavi because his POV is the only one that I’m slightly invested in.
If you were on the fence about the first book (Furies of Calderon) then go ahead and give this one a try.
The pacing was faster, there are finally some explanations for the way the furies work, and (now that I knew a bit about the world) the entire thing is a bit easier to understand.
Thanks to a brilliant stroke by the First Lord (the Big Guy in charge of everything in the realm - for those unfamiliar with the series) in political maneuvering the main characters of the first book - a former shepherd boy Tavi and his foster parents - now have to support the First Lord at all cost whether they like it or not.
Minor spoilers end here.One third of the book was spent on hinting at gloomy and apocalyptic things to come.
OKAY, HOLY SH*T. Dieses Buch hat sich in eine Mischung aus Game of Thrones und Harry Potter verwandelt/entwickelt. Was zum Teufel? ICH LIEBE ES..Edit: Ja okay, Harry Potter VIBES im Epilog, hab riesige Erwartungen an den dritten Band für mehr davon!! :D
I liked Furies of Calderon (the first book in the Codex Alera series) but thought it was pretty average compared to other works in the genre.
I already liked Jim Butcher, but this book launched him forward a few more notches in my book.If I had any criticisms, it’s that the main character was sometimes more suave and resourceful in difficult situations than I thought believable… but it did make for some excellent and memorable moments, so I won’t complain too much.
:-)Overall, if you are on the fence with whether to start the series or continue on after the first book (like I was), take it from me – totally worth it!Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.NikiHawkes.com Other books you might like:
I really enjoyed reading this book. The book has two main plot-lines – The first takes place in Calderon, and the second in the Capital. You'll see here more politics and intrigue and a bit less action, in comparison the first book in the series. Butcher gives his characters more depth, and reveal to us more knowledge about the world.Academ's fury is another great book in the series. I really like the world, the writing, the characters, the action, and all the politics and intrigue.So, once again – definitely 5/5.
I'd say this one is marginally better than book 1.
The first two- thirds I wasn't please with the progress of the series but the last third really made up for it.
I think part of my frustration is that the two best new characters both got killed off and they both had great potential.
Additionally I like several of the secondary characters more than the main characters.
More Katai, Lady Acquitaine and Odiana.
The series has all the elements to be great but is just average at this point.
I'll continue the series but will take a break from it.
This book I love the pacing, but I hate all the characters.
I think the writing, design of the cover, and the overall series are all just god awful words can't describe it.
I for one will never try to read or go near this series ever again.
I don't think I will ever try or read this book ever again.
I don't exactly understand how people could enjoy reading the series, maybe it has to do with the fact that many have enjoyed the Dresden Files, which I love so much as it has become one of the most fun series of all time for me.
Another action packed installment of a great fantasy series.
We get multiple stories going again with many of the characters from the first book.
I love when a story makes you think about which side of the road is the evil.
Maybe that was just because there wasn't any breaks throughout the whole book.If you are into Fantasy, like great writing, and don’t need the steamy, you really need to pick up this series.
It’s not very often that I pick up a 600 page fantasy book and don’t have to skim.
I always like it when bad guys become likable.What really interests me about this series is the weak (well, relatively) main character.
In these novels, however, Tavi is the only weak character without magic, and he's the weirdo and regarded with suspicion.
This flips my thoughts on magic and powers on its head, and I like that.
Without it, there would have been next to no politics in the novel, and Butcher obviously wants us to be aware of the political situation in the realm.The love story between Amara and Bernard was uncomfortable at best and gag worthy at worst.
Literally every stupid high school cliche I've ever read in one chapter- poor Tavi and his nerdy friends are getting bullied by the bigger, stronger more popular kids!
I realize that this is a classic high fantasy novel and there are certain tropes that are to be expected, even loved, but I like it so much more when Butcher transcends the particularly cheesy ones in his writing.Despite what I was initially led to believe, Tavi actually became a better, more likeable character this time around.
The characters all showed great depth, the struggles they faced kept me tearing through the pages to see what happened next, and the new dangers (view spoiler)[The Vord and Canim (hide spoiler)] were terrifying.(view spoiler)[The situations that all the POV characters found themselves in was tense to say it nicely.
I'm also a big fan of Antillar Maximus who I envision playing a large part in the story to come.I also appreciated the harsh realities faced in this book that those taken by the Vord couldn't be saved.
3.5 stars. It was good, but not exceptional. There's nothing new here, just a decent, solid old-fashioned fantasy story competently told.
Between the Dresden books and now the Codex Alera books I have come to the conclusion that Jim Butcher has an over-the-top writing style.
What I mean by over-the-top writing style is that he makes the odds against the good guys terrible from the beginning and then throughout the story makes them worse and worse.
However, since I know that going into the story, I can just go along with it and enjoy the book - which I did.
I also wish the Jim Butcher would spend a little more time on world building as the world that he has created is so interesting.
Jim Butcher's first two books in his Codex Alera are fascinating - weighted with capable, yet flawed female and male characters, and full of political intrigue and adventure.
However, at times the writing itself feels 'too neat' and the suspension of disbelief falters.The book follows Tavi, a young man in a world of furycrafters, who cannot furycraft.
This develops Tavi as an interesting character and leads the reader to want to follow his journey onwards across the continuing novels.As far as fantasy works travel this is a 'nice' book.
When the first Lord of Alera Gaius mysteriously falls unconscious after drinking Spirit fire, Tavi and his friends must come up with a plan to cover for the ill Lord before the realm ends up in chaos.
The answers you seek lie in this book when you read it for yourself.This was a pretty good second installment of the Codex Alera series by Jim Butcher.
If you enjoy fantasy stories, definitely check this series out for yourself.
The Codex alera series can be found at your local library and wherever books are sold.
I look forward to reading book III in the future.
It is always a nail biter when it comes to the second book in a series because normally they fall flat and don't live up to the awesomeness that was the first.
That is not the case here with Academ's Fury the second book in the Codex Alera!!
I am absolutely having a blast with this series!
The story is engaging and the characters are riveting to read about.
I am so looking forward to continuing on with series but for right now I am going to step back and read some other books before my back log becomes even more back logged!!!!!
4.5 stars. Outstanding follow up to the excellent Furies of Calderon. The expansion of the world introduced in the first book and the new races and characters introduced, together with the internal politics and geo-political forces dealt with at length, made this a superb story. Can not wait to read the next one.
We get a bit of the magical school trope here, though not a lot of it.
His antics remind me a bit of Harry Dresden and add some levity that was mostly lacking from the first novel.Now what magical school story would be complete without the asshole bully, that I like to call "The Malfoy"?
I found that subplot a bit slow/uninteresting on this re-read, although Doroga helps to make it worthwhile and the second half of that story is a lot more enjoyable than the first.Overall I found there is a lot I like here, in particular the politics and some of the new characters, that help me get over some of the slower parts of the story.On to book 3, which is one of my all-time favorites!
I don't spend much time on reviews for later books in series' and this won't be any exception.
If it's utter garbage then I'll lay out more details but as you can tell from my rating, I enjoyed this second book in the series.
It took a few chapters but fairly quickly I was thrust back into Alera with Tavi, Bernard, Amara, Isana and my favorites, Doroga and Walker.
Some political intrigue, elemental magic, an ancient nemesis of the Marat and the writing style really moved this story along at a brisk pace.
I'll definitely be continuing on with the series.3.5 stars.
There are many reasons why it didn't succeed:Potboiler romance, shallow characters without development, predictable story is the best I can say.
I hoped for world building and interesting developments of the furies' magic system - but in 700 pages, nearly nothing new was unccovered.Instead, we find standard fantasy tropes like magic school bullying that have been described better elsewhere.The rest of the series is predictable, as well - already the titles suggest Tavi's coming of age: In the next novel he'll be cursor, then captain, prince and finally first lord.I'll throw the series out of my shelves.
I loved this book.
I was sucked into it right away.
I always love when I'm held hostage by a book.
So after I got home from work, I slipped out to my garden for awhile just to hide from my family (more or less), then I came in and busied myself by canning 35 lbs of tomatoes.
(The kitchen is also a place to hide in after dinner because no one wants to be put to work.)I loved the story line, and also, I liked the characters more in this second book of the series.
Dnf @ 30%, but only for now. I’m going to have to reread the first book as I only recognize very few people in this book. So I’m extremely confused on what is even going on. This is why I hate waiting so long between books in a series.
This book was long and the telling of it dragged in certain spots, but the action parts definitely helped to mitigate the slog through the rest.
And it's not that the rest was bad or boring per se.
It's just that I found myself reading the book, purely looking forward to the truly important parts of the story or the next action sequence.
So I guess I have to say that the book as a whole wasn't a total pleasure to read.
Having only read three complete books by him, I can't say with certainty one way or the other.
Another book chock full of fantasy staple and cliched themes but its good sweet pie, and I realize that this is Jim Butcher's secret. Nothing new, nothing too annoying or surprising. He does pulp fantasy really really well. There is no fat on this simple story. I think I might be compelled to complete the series!
“Anger subsides. Love doesn’t.” What an excellent second book! Just as good or better than the first. If I had one word to describe this book, I would use the adjective EXCILERANT! Jim Butcher is a master at crafting a unique world where amazing characters live. I wish I could join them. Maybe even have my own furies too. Who wouldn't want to meet Doroga, Tavi, Isana, Gaius, Bernard, or Kitai? I certainly would.  “Your Kind, Aleran, are the most vicious and gentle, most savage and noble, most
What an excellent second book!
Jim Butcher is a master at crafting a unique world where amazing characters live.
Who wouldn't want to meet Doroga, Tavi, Isana, Gaius, Bernard, or Kitai?
He gives us even more awesome characters like Max, Killian, and Gargant.
Tavi with the help of friends will have to fight them at the palace while Bernard, Doroga, and Amara will join forces to do it in the valley.
Head got nothing to do with the heart.
Head got to learn that it can only kill the heart or else get out of the way”
The next one is going to be great - I can tell.
It was still lots of good fun, but no real surprises.I'm excited to see more of Kitai in the future; she was by far my favourite character in this book.Again, I have to complain about Isana.
She's made out to be super powerful, but then (view spoiler)[ she always gets kidnapped or used by other characters.
I think Tavi's capabilities are awesome, but when compared to his super powerful "aunt" who is always being taken advantage of, it just doesn't seem plausible  (hide spoiler)].
This is not as tense as the first book but its still really good. The action is great you still go through that up and down sensation when you think everything will go smoothly but something then happens yet again! The story line is different, more political, but equally as interesting and the main characters are developing well and i'm very invested now to find out what happens to them through the series, So i'm straight onto the next one even though i have a huge pile of books i had planned to read before hand. Oh well!
I probably should have re-read book one before I tackled the sequel, but I quickly got sucked back into this Ancient Rome inspired fantasy. I forgot just how much I liked Tavi and Amara. I'm glad I'm able to jump directly into the third book in the series this time around.
