https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92570.The_Loser
Παρόλα αυτά,σε όλα του τα γραπτά νοήματα προεξάρχουσα θέση έχουν η αγάπη,η ανθρωπιά,η συμπόνοια και η φιλοσοφική καινοτομία που αρνείται να παραδεχτεί την αποτυχία.
Που με ένταση και συνειδητή οργή αρνείται να εκφράσει ως αποτέλεσμα προσωπικής εξέλιξης: Δυστυχώς κύριοι ΔΕΝ πετύχατε,ΔΕΝ καταφέρατε,ΔΕΝ απελευθερωθήκατε,ΔΕ δημιουργήσατε, ΔΕ ζήσατε...«Λέμε μια λέξη και εκμηδενίζουμε έναν άνθρωπο»Ο Μπέρνχαρντ ως αφηγητής και μοναδικός επιζών μιας παράξενης παρέας τριών ανδρών φανατικά αποτυχημένων.
Πραγματεύεται τους εμμονικούς ψυχαναγκασμούς,την πληρότητα μέσα απο τη δυστυχία, την ευτυχία της αποτυχίας και την τραγικά επαναλαμβανόμενη σημασία που μας οδηγεί σε μια αναπόφευκτη επιρροή προς την ακύρωση,την κατάθλιψη και την υπονόμευση θεσμών,αξιών και προσδοκιών.
Η αποτυχία δεν είναι το αντίθετο της επιτυχίας, είναι να σταματάς την προσπάθεια...!
Yet he never made an attempt to emigrate; he lived in Austria all his life.Bernhard was a man of contradictions, and his works--The Loser, for instance—are full of contradictions too.
Well, here we are again in the land of obsessive compulsive disorder, suicidal rage and death panic.
It's like Bernhard has one channel and one channel only: sturm und drang, but without the post-Enlightenment restraint.
How did Richard Hugo put it: "hatred of the various grays / the mountain sends...." Bernhard's satirical narrators are against everything: especially mountains, in this case the Alps, nature, people, society, art, any and all institutions, the church, the state, you name it.
Might take in a movie later.' For Bernhard's characters, there can be no such trivial daily existence.
You can't get intimate with Bernhard as you would, say, with Styron.
Bernhard is amazing, and this book perfectly captures his obsession with obsession. His narrator is a music student who realizes he's a failure when he, Glenn Gould, and another pianist study together, and nobody can hold a candle to Gould, the supreme genius. It's told in Bernhard's inimitable style, as one long rambling looping paragraph that takes ideas and beholds them from several angles, all the while maintaining a relentless energy that just takes my breath away.
It is this fact that these two cannot seem to reconcile,  one quits the piano altogether, and the other just can't be bothered with existing.Bernhard doesn't treat his characters that would have us believe these men are artists with a higher meaning and sensibility than we mere mortals , he loves playing in anyway he sees fit to turn even the highbrows in bumbling fools.
It's difficult to feel sympathetic with anyone, but that's the Bernhard way, you either love it, or you don't.
It is a question of a shipwrecked in this amazing novel by Thomas Bernhard where a narrator monologue on nearly 200 pages?
The narrator finds himself alone on the beach, abandoned by Wertheimer the own suicidal and Glenn Gould (nothing less!) died suddenly of a cerebral congestion.
The author tells us that the castaway is Wertheimer, ironically called the sinking by Glenn Gould.
But a shipwrecked man is for me a survivor.
Wertheimer sank, just as Glenn Gould had sunk before him, showing that genius does not protect from despair.
The musical genius of Glenn Gould, the pinnacle of art, is what serves as the reference defining all three of their lives.
Werthemier - the titular Loser - finds himself woefully dwarfed by the perfection of Gould as a piano artist.
The manner in which he commits suicide comes as a last-ditch effort to do something on his own terms, a desperate act of rebel against his life of failure.The narrator - the philosopher - is similarly humiliated in his musical aspirations.
Through this internal monologue, in a distraught and obsessive manner, the narrator attempts to come to terms with the deaths of both Gould and Werthemier.
“ The loser is one long monologue without any paragraph breaks which seems to be a sadist move from Bernhard’s side because such breaks are a kind of breather a reader relish but you really don’t have a chance while reading this book so all one can do is to satisfy oneself with little time breaks.
You see that description given with the novel The Loser centers on a fictional relationship between piano virtuoso Glenn Gould and two of his fellow students who feel compelled to renounce their musical ambitions in the face of Gould's incomparable genius.….it actually sums it all up perfectly.
Y si a eso le añadimos que es un drama en torno a un triángulo de personajes misántropos y elitistas, en el peor sentido de la palabra, y que nos llega por medio del discurso mental de un ser antipático que conforman una prosa incómoda, que por momentos me llegó a parecer torpe, la verdad, es que no parecía tener mucho futuro conmigo.
En este sentido, contaba Keilson una leyenda que viene al pelo: El Zar recibe como regalo una manada de alces.
Como último recurso llaman a un experto residente en el lugar del que proceden los alces.
Fast forward twenty-eight years: Glenn and Wertheimer are dead and our unnamed narrator, having attended the latter’s funeral, is on his way to the latter’s last abode in search of some aphorism notes.
Then, a solid tangent was drawn from a vantage point in the book, where all the characters had rushed in to create the richest pool of their natural shades - a point where Glenn had donned the recluse's garb, Wertheimer had submerged in pools of pungent losses and our narrator had mastered the oscillations between insipid and not-so-insipid days.
The Loser is a tag Glenn gives Wertheimer on the first day of their meeting.
lo dico nel modo più rapido e indolore, e mi defilo prima che qualcuno abbia tempo di tagliarmi le gomme alla bici.
per me sono tre stelle, e nemmeno un fotone di più.perché va benissimo l’idea della stretta coerenza tra il racconto e la forma che prende: un romanzo in cui le variazioni goldberg hanno un ruolo da co-protagonista, scritto come una ossessiva variazione nei temi e nello stile.
tanti di quei «pensai» che nemmeno rodin).
Sort of like lame-ass literary fiction if you removed every standard literary convention (plot, dialogue, setting, scenes) and just freakin' mainlined the narrator's consciousness: I remember Marilynne Robinson (a Bach lover, same as Wertheimer, same as Glenn Gould) saying no writers really represent human (as opposed to alien?
Plus, again, you'll laugh out loud (LOL) like 12 times, which isn't a bad number for a book about encountering a true piano genius (Glenn Gould) and either quitting piano (the narrator) or killing yourself (Wertheimer).
Highly recommended to all people who are looking for something a little bit different formally and maybe also totally awesome thematically.
The 'Loser' of the title, named Wertheimer, was unfortunate enough both to have been a gifted piano player and to have studied contemporaneously with piano legend Glenn Gould, whose life and genius -- albeit in a somewhat fictionalized form -- haunt Wertheimer until he is at long last able to 'assert himself' [as the narrator puts it] for the first time -- by committing suicide just outside his sister's Swiss home.
He accomplishes renunciation.The unnamed narrator of the novel, another failure who has languished in Gould's long shadow, also turns his back on piano playing resolutely, and yet with some measure of (seeming) equanimity.
We should observe and treat people not from our point of view but from all angles, I thought, associate with them in such a way that we can say we associate with them so to speak in a completely unbiased way, which however isn't possible, since we actually are always biased against everybody.” I definitely think I will read so much more of his work, I’m completely in awe.
"Again and again we picture ourselves sitting together with the people we feel drawn to all our lives, precisely these so-called simple people, whom naturally we imagine much differently from the way they truly are, for if we actually sit down with them we see that they aren't the way we've pictured them and that we absolutely don't belong with them, as we've talked ourselves into believing, and we get rejected at their table and in their midst as we logically should get after sitting down at their table and believing we should get after sitting down at their table and believing we belonged with them or could sit with them for even the shortest time without being punished, which is the biggest mistake, I thought." Loser, Philosophizer, Genius.
Thomas Bernhard'ın bütün kitaplarını okuduktan sonra sokağa çıkıp Avusturya bayrağı yakacağım sanırım.
She was forever in the shadow of Niles Vee, a percussionist of rare merit, who was at home on maracas and spoons.
I had to divorce Mary when she brought her fiftieth Niles Vee voodoo mannequin into the flat.
Have you ever sat in an airport and tried to match the face to the destination?
Who are we to assume plump red-faced men in suits are heading for Amsterdam, or that tanning-bed turkeys are destined for Ibiza?
Mary was always chiding me for these attitudes, despite my guesses usually being right, and humans being as predictable as their behaviour repeatedly proves them to be.
"O Glenn Gould, o nosso amigo e o mais importante virtuoso do piano do século, também só fez 51 anos, pensava eu ao entrar na estalagem.Só que esse não se matou como o Werthermer mas morreu, como se costuma dizer, de morte natural."Assim se inicia O Náufrago. E é tudo... "Nós em teoria compreendemos as pessoas, mas na prática não as suportamos, pensei, na maior parte das vezes só a contragosto lidamos com elas, e tratamo-las sempre de acordo com o nosso próprio ponto de vista." ... "dizia ele, p
"O Glenn Gould, o nosso amigo e o mais importante virtuoso do piano do século, também só fez 51 anos, pensava eu ao entrar na estalagem.Só que esse não se matou como o Werthermer mas morreu, como se costuma dizer, de morte natural."Assim se inicia O Náufrago.
"Nós em teoria compreendemos as pessoas, mas na prática não as suportamos, pensei, na maior parte das vezes só a contragosto lidamos com elas, e tratamo-las sempre de acordo com o nosso próprio ponto de vista."
como se explica o gosto de ler um livro que é apenas um monólogo repetitivo e deprimente?e,...
como se explica a magia que é a Vida?
Um livro soberbo de Thomas Bernhard, que, com o seu habitual estilo elíptico, incisivo e jocoso em forma de monólogo interno, narra a destruição de um pianista perante a incapacidade de atingir a genialidade artística.
C’è stato un bizzarro travaso di tematiche da Wittgenstein a Il soccombente, mi sembra infatti di aver letto un unico libro, con personaggi (persone?) simili.Forse leggere due Bernhard di seguito può infettare il sangue con una quantità letale di misantropia, pessimismo e nichilismo, ma a me tutto ciò scorre già a fiotti, ne sono immune in quanto portatore fiero: trovo in Bernhard un autore che può solo dare forma ai miei pensieri, insieme a tanti altri degni pensatori.
Però Bernhard è bravo anche ad alleggerire il carico, dopotutto siamo tutti umani, pure Glenn Gould lo era, diamoci tutti una pacca sulla spalla perché è verissimo che non cogliamo mai nel segno quando diciamo che quell’uomo è felice.
This book should be hidden inside the dust jackets of all the self help books out there. You don't need help once you realize that helplessness is the basic condition that surrounds us. Helplessness of a genius to be that way and of the Loser to struggle against this helplessness. Bernhard is amazing. And I think my suicide gets delayed, until I have finished reading all what he has written. Lets understand suicide before committing to it.
If you are fond of classical music, you will probably like this novel. The world of musicians, their hopes and ambitions are skillfully depicted. I also liked the idea that the story is fictionalised about the great pianist Glen Gould's real story.
Non facciamo altro che scappare, così lui, fino a quando cessiamo di vivere".
Non è facile, per quanto mi riguarda, descrivere le emozioni che questo romanzo breve, ma intenso, ha saputo donarmi.
Un cammino impervio, soprattutto per i due protagonisti che si devono confrontare con il genio assoluto del piano, ovvero Glenn Gould.
Il soccombente mette i protagonisti di fronte al fallimento, all'incapacità di essere trascinandoli in una vita arida e vuota in cui non vi è possibilità di riscatto e di redenzione, ma solo l'amara coscienza di ciò che eravamo potuti essere e non saremo mai.
Che quando comprende di non essere un genio e di non poterlo diventare, abbandona il pianoforte senza particolari traumi.- Il soccombente, ossia Wertheimer, che quando sente per la prima volta Gould suonare vede il mondo crollare, perché riconosce in lui il genio e capisce di non esserlo.
Quest'àncora di salvezza, che consiste nel considerarsi come qualcosa di unico al mondo, Wertheimer non l'ha mai presa in seria considerazione, gli mancavano a tal fine tutte le necessarie premesse."Cosa ci vuole raccontare Bernhard, con questo romanzo dalla scrittura ossessiva, ripetitiva, musicale, ipnotizzante?
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Self-mockery: "The Loser" by Thomas Bernhard(original review, 2012)Story about a born piano virtuoso (imagined Glenn Gould), and two "failed" pianists, who became something else in life due to that...After reading "Woodcutters" recently I decided to tackle "The Loser" ("Der Untergeher") in English (translated by Jack Dawson, with a wonderful afterword by Mark M. Anderson).
So that may be what it's like to be a genius, under certain definitions of the word.But The Loser asks and answers a very different question: what is it like to be the best friend of a genius?
He's neither heroic enough to go out like GG (a stroke while playing the piano, in this book; I gather this is not how it went down in real life) nor tragic enough to make his death a grand gesture, the way Wertheimer does.
In verità sono molte le persone che proprio perché profondamente immerse nella loro infelicità, in fondo sono felici, pensai, e dissi a me stesso che forse Wertheimer è stato davvero felice perché della propria infelicità è stato consapevole in ogni momento e di essa si è potuto rallegrare».
È proprio lui il protagonista del romanzo: il soccombente, l’uomo che ha fatto del fallimento la cifra della propria esistenza, un uomo inadatto alla vita e tirannico nella sua inettitudine.
[“Wertheimer non era capace di vedere se stesso come un essere unico al mondo, mentre in effetti è così che ciascuno di noi può e deve concedersi di vedere se stesso se non vuole cadere in balìa della disperazione [...].
[...] più che a ogni altra cosa si era abituato in maniera micidiale alla propria infelicità”]Perché un uomo divorato dall’invidia.[“Wertheimeir ha invidiato a Glenn Gould perfino la morte”]Quello che è doloroso, è riconoscersi in certi atteggiamenti e modi di essere del soccombente.
Loser is an irrational tale told by an irrational man about his irrational friend – a triumph of paranoia.“The so-called intellectual consumes himself in what he considers pathbreaking work and in the end has only succeeded in making himself ridiculous, whether he’s called Schopenhauer or Nietzsche, it doesn’t matter, even if he was Kleist or Voltaire we still see a pitiful being who has misused his head and finally driven himself into nonsense.
We’ve locked up the great thinkers in our bookcases, from which they keep staring at us, sentenced to eternal ridicule.”Is madness a cacophony?
Does music ruin musicians?
It has already ruined so many...
Thomas Bernhard'ın sayıklama ve tekrar üzerine kurulu dilini seviyorum dedim. Evet dedim, seviyorum. Thomas'ın yazdıkları aslında tam olarak sayıklamalardan ve tekrarlardan oluşuyor dedim, sayıklama ve tekrardan dedim. Benim de asıl sevdiğim bu dedim.
Noi esseri umani, devastanti e devastantisi. Soccombere, corrosi da sè stessi, infallibilmente. Fatico ad alzarmi, colpita al cuore. Tentenno.“Il soccombente è già stato messo al mondo come soccombente, pensai, è stato da sempre il soccombente...”.
La mente, dato che il romanzo è scritto principalmente in forma di monologo/flusso di pensiero, corse subito ad altri autori come Joyce o Faulkner, pensai.
Qui però non si trattava nè dell'impiego di monologhi interiori, costituiti da frasi sconnesse che imprimono sulla carta il flusso istantaneo di coscienza, nè dell'intenzione di espandere il racconto, di ampliarlo attraverso la rappresentazione della realtà percepita da diversi punti di vista.
“Avevo sviluppato una grande abilità nell'assimilare di continuo le stesse cose come se ogni volta fossero del tutto diverse, questa abilità l'avevo affinata moltissimo, in maniera fantastica,” così diceva, pensai Così la trama è ben poca cosa, ma i temi del romanzo sono continuamente rielaborati, riproposti in forma diversa, ampliati, arricchiti dai ricordi, dalle riflessioni del narratore monologante e così, di fatto, approfonditi, pensai .
Cercando e creando infelicità per ogni dove."Wertheimer non era capace di vedere se stesso come un essere unico al mondo, mentre in effetti è così che ciascuno di noi può e deve concedersi di vedere se stesso se non vuole cadere in balìa della disperazione, ogni essere umano, comunque sia fatto, è un essere unico al mondo, io stesso me.
Nulla in eterno può durare o meglio l'essenza di ogni essere umano è destinata all'oblio.Alla fine ciò che rimarrá [anche del genio] è solo un eco lontana di ciò che egli è stato."Gli adoratori adorano un fantasma, pensai, adorano un Glenn Gould che non è mai esistito.
The writing is schizophrenic and enraging at times; Bernhard was never content to tell an easy story in an easy manner, and in fact, he makes it about as difficult as possible for the reader, with frequent, feverish bouts of repetition, little character development, and ideas about everything that just seem to leap out and then vanish back into the whirlwind of narration.
Most of the time I was reading this was spent trying to find the place where I'd left off.The story concerns Glenn Gould/Thomas Bernhard, his suicided friend Wertheimer, and the awful possibilities of art.
I treći koji je narator seća se svojih prjatelja Glena pokušava da shvati njegovu genijalnost i Verthajmerovo samoubistvo, seća se svog studiranja muzike i shvata da je to bila njegova nesreća , jer on usitinu nikada nije voleo muziku i da on zapravo želi da piše.I da Glen Guld nije fiktivna ličnost, a ni njegovo sjajno izvodjenje Goldberg varijacija: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VPQ2B..."Sve moje sklonosti su ubilačke, rekao mi je jednom,sve je u meni ubilački nastrojeno, to su tako moji stvaraoci uredili, rekoa je , pomislih.
Bernhard never knew Glenn Gould, of course, but he zeroed in on him as the perfect instrument with which to ply his vitriolic satire directed at his fellow Austrian: the nation known for nurturing some of the greatest composers of all time is subjected to the waxilirical adulation of a Canadian.
The central tenet is an acknowledgement from the narrator that he would never be as ‘good’ a pianist as Gould, and subsequent renouncement of the piano, and, subsequent inability to crystallise anything productive in his life as a result of ‘analysis paralyses’.
Nietzsche'nin bir sözünü anımsattı bana bitik adam, diye düşündüm."Severim kendinden öte bir şey yaratmaya çalışanı ve böylece yok olanı."
Parents know very well that they perpetuate their own unhappiness in their children, they go about it cruelly by having children and throwing them into the existence machine.
At one point I was reading this at the bar in a diner at, like, a little past midnight and this foreign-sounding guy came up to me and said "You're reading that?...Zee best...my fevvorite..."! and kissed the tips of his fingers like you do. I already wrote some of my feelings about Mr. Bernhard in my review of his "Wittgenstein's Nephew" so I'll just post some Glenn Gould vids in lieu of another blathering review... Goldberg variations: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2XwojD... Beethoven: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FL0u9Q... Chopin: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YM_sbF...
Καταπληκτικός συγγραφέας. Ένας εσωτερικός μονόλογος του ήρωα με φιλοσοφικό περιεχόμενο. Ο τύπος του μυθιστορήματος που μου αρέσει περισσότερο. Μπορώ να το συγκρίνω με το μαγικό βουνό του Mann, τους κιβδηλοποιούς του Gide, το λύκο της στέπας του Hesse και το ομαδικό πορτραίτο με μία κυρία του Böll.
ma io lo sopporto quasi sempre nel senso che non solo riesco a tenere su il suo peso, ma anche che mi sembra di ascoltare uno a cui un po’ somiglio, anche se spesso ho l’impressione che mi prenda in giro.
e non è senza motivo che allevo carpe anche se chi mi sta attorno non capisce e nemmeno io capisco ma le carpe sono colorate e, pensai, meglio un’ossessione da carpe che il nulla, e la vita delle carpe ha bisogno di un’ora per crescere e quando ti sei stufata anche di quello, pensai, ecco che sei pronta per un nuovo libro di BernhardCommento conclusione.

Τρείς φίλοι παίζουν μαζί πιάνο στον κορυφαίο πιανίστα της χώρας τους,έχουν στόχο να του μοιάσουν κι αν μπορούν να τον ξεπεράσουν.Ένας απ'αυτούς διαθέτει περισσότερο ταλέντο απ'τους άλλους δύο και προχωράει πιό μπροστά.Οι άλλοι όπως είναι φυσικό καταλαβαίνουν ότι δεν θα μπορέσουν ποτέ να τον φτάσουν και τίποτα δεν θα μείνει όπως πρίν.Μοναδικό το προτείνω σε όλους
C'è sempre in chi è minimamente ambizioso quel sogno molto fanciullesco di poter essere un "faro del proprio tempo", non solo uno di quelli bravi, a cui si applaude, ma uno che possa incidere nella Storia (della musica, in questo caso).
Hayatın, dünyanın katlanılmazlığını tüm kitaplarında işleyen Thomas Bernhard, son dönem eserlerinden Bitik Adam'da da bu konuyu ele almış.
Bu defa ünlü, dahi ama sıradışı karakterde olan piyanist Glenn Gould'un, onunla birlikte Salzburg'da yine bir başka müzik efsanesi Horowitz'den kurs alan Wertheimer (Bitik Adam) ile anlatıcımızın hayatları üzerindeki etkileri temelinde ilerliyor hikaye, tabii buna hikaye denebilirse.
Bernhard'ın tüm unsurlarıyla Avusturya toplumuna, Viyana'ya, Salzburg'a öfkesi dinmiyor.
Kitabın benim için cezbedizi bir yönü de, Glenn Gould'un ve onun klasik müzik aleminde efsane olmuş (benim de hasbelkader en sevdiğim klasik müzik eserlerindendir) Bach'ın Goldberg Varyasyonlarının da kitabın ana kahramanlarından olmasıydı.
