https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/222606.Who_Will_Comfort_Toffle_
Рядко пониква нещо толкова прекрасно като тази книга. Тя е история, поезия, любовно приятелство (!), не просто любов. Ум и сетива в прегръдка. Ще е чиста благодат да я имаме преведена на български. Кой ще утеши Кнютчето?

I loved this book when I was a little kid and just recently read it again. I never realized how much it influenced me.
A wonderful, gentle, sad-sweet Moomin Valley story about depression and being lonely and finding friendship. Very much a delight...and a book that offers up kindness and hope. A small treasure for a grey winter's day...
SWEDISH REVIEW further down! This was not just a book, this was an experience.I marvel every time I read something by [author Tove Jansson | 45230], by how much I actually admire and love her writing. Her way of writing and describing, she paints feelings with words. I didn't even react to the fact that the whole book was in rhyme, for it seemed so natural in the story.Should perhaps add that I never read this before, not now either. I listened to it (in Swedish):http://svenska.yle.fi/artikel/2
This was not just a book, this was an experience.I marvel every time I read something by [author Tove Jansson | 45230], by how much I actually admire and love her writing.
There is no audiobook or music that got me to do something like that for years..._____________________Det här var inte bara en bok, det här var en upplevelse.Jag förundras varje gång jag läser något av Tove Jansson hur mycket jag faktiskt beundrar och älskar hennes texter.
Jag lyssnade på den:http://svenska.yle.fi/artikel/2014/01...Att höra Tove själv berätta sagan var med magiskt än jag skulle kunnat tro.
This is one of the best picture books ever written.
The story is told in rhyme and because it is translated the poetry can be awkward at times and the translator is not quite up to the task.The story is about Toffle who goes looking for someone to be comforted by and ends up finding a Mymble to be comforted by after many adventures.
Its illustrations are complex and can occupy a child while the text is being read.Tove Jansson was a genius and is superior to any other children's writer including Milne, Dahl, Carroll, White, Potter or anyone you can think of.
Who Will Comfort Toffle is the best of her picture books.There is in the picture book a subtle world view and philosophy.
I own the original English translation so I can't judge the newest version. But I adore my battered and beat up copy. This treasure was found on the bottom shelf of one of those used bookstores that appear when you need an hour digging through dusty shelves, and then vanish like Brigadoon. The rough condition just adds to poignancy of Toffle's journey. May you be delighted and comforted by discovering this wise and gently humorous picture book.
From a dear Swedish friend. A treasure.
One of the most, if not the book of my childhood. That was a nice nostalgia trip to take.SEE YA.
en av de finaste barnböckerna som finns. ljuvliga rim, vackra bilder och ett fint budskap.
Klassikko joka oli hirmuisesti aikaansa edellä tarinana lapsille. Ihana tarina, joka on kuvitettu vähintään yhtä ihanilla kuvilla.
Only 4 stars because of how easily this little Toffle character despatched the Groke. If Toffle turned up in a different book he'd be a popsicle!
Perfino la grafia troppo laboriosa stanca in fretta.Risulta particolarmente evidente in questo libro quanto la valle dei Mumin rispecchi la natura finlandese che l’autrice tanto amava anche in qualità di pittrice: i boschi scandinavi, inquietanti solo a prima vista; il mare, freddo eppure così bello e accogliente… E i personaggi che abitano questi luoghi appartengono ad un pantheon personale (si dice fossero ispirati ai membri della famiglia Jansson e ad altri conoscenti), ma sembrano anche rievocare, almeno in parte, un folklore profondo, tacitamente sotteso e pronto a riemergere.
the store is open for three months or until they run out of goods (i think).they brought back this book.
i had heard of the moomin books but either not read or not paid attention to them before.what marco's wife had to say about it:Taking place in the Moomin-world of characters, 'Who will comfort Toffle?' written in 1960 is a beautiful if also bit dark and sad children’s book.
Written and illustrated by Tove Jansson, this book depicts the shy, lonely and scared Toffle.
Uhohtumaton kirja!
Luen sen tänään satavuotiaan Tove Janssonin kunniaksi.
Osaan tarinan piirroksineen jo ulkoa mutta kirjaa lukiessa kokee yhä lämpimän henkäyksen, pään silityksen ja kädestä pitämisen Lapsuuden ja nuoruuden rajalla tuntui usein samalta kuin Nyytistä: kaikki häilyi etääntyen ympäriltä.
Tuli yhä pienempi yksinäisempi olo pelottavassa maailmassa.
Niinä hetkinä saattoi avata rauhoittavan kirjan Kuka lohduttaisi Nyytiä?
Vastaus löytyi Mystä ja ystävällisestä Muumilaaksosta.
Ihmeellisen sadun syvyydessä on kasvun kerrostumien lisäksi Janssonin oma tunnekartta kuvineen kauniin lempeästi, huomaavaisesti käsiteltynä.Päätyessään kuvataiteilijasta satuilevaksi kuvittajaksi Tove Jansson avasi kirjallisuudelle uuden oven kyetessään tuomaan elämän kokoisen sisällön yhteyden, koskettavan läheisyyden pienten ja isojen ulottuville.Sanoen:Muistathan, että ystävyydessä olemme rikkaita.
No jaa, kuka lohduttaisi minua kun kirja olikin niin lyhykäinen? Olihan tämä ihan mukava tarina, mutta kuitenkin, odotukseni siitä olivat erilaiset. En tiennyt sen olevan runokirja, en tiennyt tarinan olevan "rakkaustarina". Eihän nämä huonoja asioita olleet, mutta jotenkin silti petyin. Olisikohan pitänyt lukea kirja pienempänä lapsena?
Nous rencontrons les habitants exotiques de la vallée de Moumine: les trolls de toutes sortes, les émules, les filigondes, le dronte, des mouchaillons, la Courabou, Tounet et Touillette. (Mais les Moumines, nous ne rencontrons pas dans ce livre.)Le conte est très beau encourageant. Les créatures solitaires retrouvent l'un l'autre, et plus personne n'eut peur de rien.* * * * *Tapaamme Muumilaakson eksoottiset asukit: joka sortin peikot, hemulit, vilijonkat, drontit, homssut, Mörön, Nyytin ja Tuitun. (Muumeja sen sijaan emme tapaa tässä kirjassa.)Tarina on hyvin kaunis ja rohkaiseva. Yksinäiset otukset löytävät toisensa, eikä kenenkään tarvitse sittemmin enää pelätä.
I love the looks of the characters within the Moomin world, but I haven't read much of the stories.
Who Will Comfort Toffle?
is about a lonely Toffle looking for a friend.
He is surrounded by people but finds himself too shy to interact with anyone.
After finding a message in a bottle, he sets off to rescue the distressed Miffle who penned the letter.
The reader is invited to write down Toffle's story and leave it on a rosebush for Miffle to read since Toffle is too shy to write his one tale.
Overall, a bit...odd but so cutely illustrated.
A sweet little story.Three stars might also be enough for this but I think it's deep and the message of trying to have courage is important. It's suitable for anyone from children to adults, which makes it a good book, in my opinion.- -Runomuodossa oleva tarina oli virkistävää vaihtelua romaaneille, joita yleensä luen. Olisihan tämänkin klassikon voinut aiemminkin lukea, mutta en ole tainnut siihen törmätä tarpeeksi usein kun se ei ole koskaan mukaani tarttunut.
Love this Book - a real adventure with a valuable lesson about friendship!This book has it all - a fabulous narrative, fun characters, amazing settings, and poetry. The translation works well for us and we have read this book many times. We also love the book about Little My that ends with Mama giving Moomin and friends beautiful berry juice. Just fun and simple and the drawings inspire little imaginations. Moomin and Friends rock!
This was one of my ALL TIME FAVORITES when I was a kid! Whenever I was sad or feeling down my mom would take me to the library and we would bring "Who will comfort Toffle?" home. My mom would read it aloud for me and I loved the drawings and all the funny characters. This is a wonderful book filled with dreams and it makes your imagination sprout!Enjoy!
The one star is from the childhood me - I didn't fancy this book at all as a kid. I think it scared me, and I also think that I didn't like the style of the writing or the drawings and I have a hunch I won't like it now either. Have no intention really to reread in now, and I think my childhood opinion is suitable enough for a children's book.
All-time favorite since I was little, even more so after I got very depressed at such a young age. I used to go home and read this book whenever it got bad, and my mother just recently gave it to me after all these years. I identified with Toffle very much and I still find the book comforting and really important.
Um bonito livro da finlandesa Tove Jansson. Bom para ler em voz alta, ainda que a tradução imediata do inglês para a nossa língua seja algo difícil: manter a rima que lhe confere uma magia adicional. É de ler e de ter. Que irá confortar o Toffle? Tímido e só, terá ele coragem de enfrentar o mundo e descobir que pode ser corajoso e vencer a solidão...
This short, lavishly illustrated narrative poem is a testament to Jansson's genius. This tale of Knytt is a loving one that touches upon shyness and depression, and the courage required to overcome it. The backdrop is the always colourful Moomin valley with its great characters and perfect balance between cosiness and the awe and fear before the overwhelming forces of nature.
Marking this as 5 stars, I feel I have to downgrade all my other 5-star reviews! It's a gorgeous, timeless story of poor shy, fearful Toffle, who only becomes brave when there is someone else to save. A new and absolute favorite.
I was thinking...what books have I read recently. And repeatedly. This one immediately came to mind. It's sure long for a kids' book. I can recite much of it by heart, if you PWs would like an impromptu reading. :)
I have no idea when I saw this little classic first, but it must have been in early childhood. When I saw it again as an adult, all these picture memories came back ... what a classic this is. And beautifully made by Sort Of Books.
I can't believe nobody read this book to me when I was little. This book is just amazing and I love Tove Jansson's original illustrations. I would recommend every shy person (such as me) to read this book and really think about the message the author sends through it..
Vad kan man säga om Tove Janssons böcker som inte redan blivit sagt? Det finns inslag av melankoli i dem, men stämningen är främst trolsk och får en att vilja vända blad, men inte förrän man studerat den sidan man är på klart.
