https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/554787.The_New_Testament_Documents
Bruce, however, is prone to take the biblical texts at face value, as basically factual source material for religious belief.Now, in high school I had known many evangelicals.
But, with the exception of two resident advisors who were evangelicals in an existentialist sort of way (credo ut absurdum), all of my Christian teachers and colleagues were liberals, treating the biblical mss.
Still, he takes this task with the utmost seriousness and has very strong, evidentially based, opinions.If you are a liberal Christian yourself or otherwise wish to be exposed to an educated evangelical's arguments, check out Bruce's work.
Yet I knew it was a classic, so I grabbed it, and read it, and put it in my library.Picking it up again, I am surprised at how much of the material I failed to recall.
Much of this I know, and more that has been discovered in the now three-quarters century since the original publication (I was reading the author's 1960 revision, which was not a listed edition at Goodreads).I can think of half a dozen people, without stopping to consider the question, who ought to read this book; none of them will.
A highly informative, practically beneficial read. This book is both scholarly and accessible.
His adherence to the speculations about Markan Priority and Q are disappointing due to the paucity of actual evidence cited and are incongruous with most of the rest of this well-researched book.Specifically, he should have followed his own advice in the final footnote of chapter 2: "The latest exhaustive enquiry into the dates of the New Testament books -- Redating the New Testament by J.
But Dr. Robinson's case is so well researched and closely reasoned that no one from now on should deal with this question of dating without paying the most serious attention to his arguments."Not once does Bruce follow this advice.
It is historically consistent with outside documents (Josephus tells the same story we find in Acts 12:20-23, for instance).
Even where other writings are hostile or indifferent to Christianity, they do not refute the NT's claims.
He considers the Gospel differences helpfully, and Paul and Luke's Acts, also.
He shows there are far more NT texts closer to the original writing than we have for most other major works (Caesar, Socrates, etc.), the historicity of which we do not question.All this in 120 pages!
Highly recommended, especially for seminary students and any Christian who is struggling with doubts about the faith once delivered to the saints.
F.F. Bruce is widely known as a brilliant scholar and lovable author.
This, his "literary firstborn" (p.
xiii), is a terrific resource on showing the manifold evidence of the historical reliability of the New Testament documents, both regarding their date of composition as held by tradition and their original content as discerned by literary criticism.It is compelling in all regards, and is highly recommended for those wanting to know more about how our New Testament manuscripts compare to other documents of antiquity.
One of my greatest enjoyments from this book is seeing Bruce commentate on various passages of Scripture throughout.May our Lord bless you in your studies!
(1943), was voted by the American evangelical periodical Christianity Today in 2006 as one of the top 50 books "which had shaped evangelicals"Bruce does a great job of doing just as he argues, “if a work can be proven to be historically and culturally accurate with respect to most of its content, that document then becomes-on the whole-more compelling.”The author makes his cases about why he thinks the New Testament documents are reliable.This book is divided into following ten chapters: First Chapter, Does it matter?Is it essential that the New Testament documents should be reliable?
Measured and convincing.
The main question Bruce attempts to answer in this book is captured within the book's own title: are the New Testament Documents reliable?
Throughout his book, Bruce anticipates questions that might obstruct our ability to answer his original question about the reliability of the New Testament.
In fact, Bruce focuses our attention towards Jesus' own resurrection, calling it the "chief Gospel miracle of all" (63).In his sixth chapter, Paul's testimony is discussed with an emphasis on his importance in speaking of the New Testament's reliability.
Essentially, Bruce is answering the question of what the outside world can tell us about the reliability of the New Testament.
Excellent.
A bit dated but still very relevant. Great entry level introduction to New Testament and Christian origins. Lots of helpful info backed up with solid scholarship.
I originally sought after this book to coincide with my month long study on the validity of the bible.
The overarching concepts discussed here definitely aided in strengthening my understanding of how we can trust the bible as a historical piece, and also how to trust its content.
Unfortunately I got rather lost in the historical depth this book reads, and found myself skimming past some of the historical data.
If you enjoy history, you will absolutely love this book and probably take away even more than me.
I hope to use this as a resource in the future, and perhaps revisit when I am able to better appreciate the historical detail.
This book is a classic treatment of the evidence for the historical reliability of the New Testament.
The many editions of the book bear witness to its helpfulness to many readers since its first publication in 1943.
Bruce does not say more than can be said.
He fully recognizes that many issues come down to a matter of faith, but he provides a sound historical basis for discussing these matters.
Those with an a priori assumption that supernatural things do not happen will obviously discard any ancient text which contains them, but this assumption would affect the supposed credibility of virtually any ancient historical text.
Bruce navigates these and other issues with precision and eloquence.
A helpful introduction to the issues surrounding textual, form, and historical criticism of the New Testament, ranging from an evaluation of purpose and the authors’ context to a full examination of patristic, Jewish, and Greek historians’ corroboration.His chapters highlighting the writings of Paul and Luke are stunningly powerful.
Though Paul was not a direct disciple of Christ, he had so thoroughly followed the apostolic teaching and tradition that his writings effuse Jesus’ teaching - itself a picture of the aim of Scripture.
The illustration of the accuracy of Luke’s writings both internally and as regards his attention to external historical verification is simply breathtaking.
F. F. Bruce’s classic book defending the reliability of the NT is still applicable decades after I read it the first time. His chapter on the Book of Acts is worth the whole book. Acts is loaded with historical figures, timelines and events. It is prime for skeptics to disparage the reliability of the NT by finding historical inaccuracies in Acts. But F. F. Bruce demonstrates through scholarly documentation how the Book of Acts holds up to scrutiny. Highly recommend reading this book, perhaps several times.
This is an older but still useful popular level primer on the manuscript and archeological evidence for the Bible.
It’s a bit outdated, having its last major revision in 1959, and I found some of the slightly old-style writing hard to “grok” in places, but I definitely see why this is a classic and I’m glad I read it.
It was a quick read and I commend it to anyone interested in broadening their understanding of this topic, but if you only want to read one book on this subject and want something newer and (imho) better, you should pick up Lightfoot’s “How We Got the Bible” instead.
As a scholar, Bruce is highly reputable and knowledgeable about this subject. But this particular book, while insightful, felt too short to provide the necessary detail and support for his assertions. He would sometimes mention things in passing that warranted much more discussion, use scholarly terms that I was unfamiliar with, or go down minor tangents that diluted his point. I'm glad I read it and I came away with significant respect for the author and his perspective, but I can't highly recommend it for the reasons above.
Great read and wonderful affirmation of what is true; the New Testament is the most documented text in ancient literature.
A very clear presentation of the reliability of the New Testament as we have it today.
He goes into a lot of detail which is worth careful study but, what really caught my attention in the chapter was what he said about canon formation,The New Testament books did not becomes authoritative for the church because they were formally included in a canonical list; on the contrary the church included the in her canon because she already regarded them as divinely inspired, recognizing their innate worth and generally apostolic authority, direct or indirect.The church decided it was important to develop a canonical list because of circumstances within the church.
I would encourage anyone who at all has any doubts about the historicity of the New Testament to read this book.
Moving from this argument, Bruce shows the sound textual basis for the New Testament documents and contrasts this with the weak textual basis for other unquestioned documents in history.
After establishing the textual basis, the writer brings up the historicity of the historical narratives of the New Testament (The Gospels and Acts).
Here Bruce brings to bear the weight of substantial historical evidence for the facts recorded in the books.
Throughout his discussions of these books the writer brings up time and again the idea of the miracles recorded in them.
Bruce's book on the New Testament documents is a classic.
There's a reason it's been around so long--it's just a solid, comprehensive case for the reliability of the New Testament.
I liked the thoroughness of his arguments and the way he responds to current arguments.
Bruce does tend to overwhelm sometimes so that he spends perhaps too long giving pieces of evidence on particular points.
For a more thorough understanding of the issues you'd want to supplement with other reading.
But all in all, a great book for people becoming interested in this topic.
ان كتب العهد الجديد تستحق ان تعامل معاملة اي كتاب تاريخي حتي ان كنت لا تؤمن بمضمونها ..
و لا يوجد دليل واحد من وجهة نظري لتلك النظرية ان هذه الكتب لم تكن الانجيل الحقيقي ..
هذه الكتب كتبها تلاميذ المسيح حقيقة ..
و مضمونها هو نفس المضمون الذي علم به المسيح ..
قراءة كتب العهد الجديد تستحق ان تقرأ و عندها تقدر ان تحكم عليها و علي مضمونها ..
مع العلم انه يجب عند الحكم عليها ادراك طبيعة الطريقة التي كتبت بها، فهي ليست كتب منزلة و طبيعة الوحي فيها تختلف عن الوحي الميكانيكي المحفوظ ..
Excellent walk-through on exactly why the books of the New Testament are historically reliable.
Bruce does a great job of presenting all the historical evidence, engaging in philosophical assumptions concerning miracles, and showing the power that lies behind many of the books of the New Testament, especially in the book of John.
As Bruce points out, these documents, if fabricated, have little in common with the other myths of that day but are written in a completely different style--that of the records of eyewitnesses.
Bruce does an excellent job in showing how, in the end, the records of Scripture hold up to the scrutiny of historical inquiry.
Bruce gives a range of arguments here for the reliability of the New Testament. What I liked about this was that it was not only a book of apologetics, which can sometimes be aloof, but he also crafted arguments that enhanced my under standing of certain gospel texts, and making the book spiritually insightful rather than just intellectually defensive. (Borrowed this from a friend to read and returned it before I had a chance to write the review, so unfortunately it is a skimpy one as I can't refer!)
FF Bruce is a master in throwing a historical light on the New Testament documents. Bruce covers attestation, formation, archaeological evidence, non-Christian writings, form/source/text criticism and many topics. Moreover, he does it all with extensive documentation. I would recommend this book to anyone beginning their journey into the history of the NT. This book is considered to be a classic and it is easy to see why.
Why on earth is this man not more widely read? He makes genuine academic scholarship seem not only interesting, but actually edifying. I strongly recommend this to any Christian who is confused about what the scholarly study of the New Testament means for the life of faith. They will discover that, far from being damaging, it can be actively encouraging.
A good, concise argument for why the New Testament is reliable. F.F. Bruce offers his opinion on textual and source criticism of the New Testament. He also examines non-Christian sources who mention Jesus and the New Testament. It is a good read for those doubting the reliability of the New Testament.
This book was originally written in the 1940s, and is still highly relevant today. Obviously all of the background sources and references are even older, which makes the book seem dated, which is unfortunate. But, the information within is still clear, logical and decisive. Yes, the New Testament Documents are reliable – exceeding anything else of the equivalent age.
The quality of Bruce's work is clear even in his first book. Although it is dated now, this work is still filled with tons of great information on NT documents. His work on Luke was especially powerful to me. Any who is struggling with keeping their trust in God's Word should read this to be strengthened in the accuracy of the Gospels portrayal of Christ.
