https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/860979.People_of_the_Wolf
The idea in itself was fascinating, but at the same time, it sounded tremendously boring--a story about the first Native Americans who crossed the Bering Strait into North America.
Very rarely in books do i find myself so engrossed in characters that they become dear to me (even the "bad" ones).
And Runs in Light/Wolf Dreamer?
All in all, I was really pleased with this book.
There were some minor things (some of the descriptions/descriptive passages were way too descriptive), but I'd definitely recommend this book to anyone, especially someone interested in Native Americans.
The mystical/spiritual aspect isn't just heavy-handed and takes the supernatural too seriously for my tastes, but given animals are often capitalized, that the gods the People worship are called things like "Wind Woman" and "Grandfather White Bear" and the human characters named things like Singing Wolf and Dancing Fox, it was hard to keep straight which was meant at times--person, animal, or divinity.
Other than Gear's series, Auel's Clan of the Cave Bear is about the only one I've seen (and it's much, much more engaging, and despite Auel not being a professional archeologist, her world seemed better filled out and thought out.) I'm afraid People of the Wolf just isn't worth the time or money.
I picked up this book because I thought it would be similar to Jean Auel's "Earth Children" series.
I read them in high school and have so many fond memories of dog-earing the dirty parts.
My parents thought I was reading historical fiction - ha!) This book was similar since it had a prehistoric setting, but there were a million characters and no dirty parts.
There were two tribes and the names were all very similar - "One Who Cries", "Dancing Fox," "Ice Fire." Plus, there was "Grandfather White Bear" (polar bears) and "Wind Woman" (the wind.) It made my eye twitch.I still liked it once I figured out who everyone was and I'll probably check out the next one in the series.
This whole series was enjoyable,trapping me in the pages as I went through book after book. As a native American, it brings me back to my heritage and makes me proud of the people i came from, regardless of these being fiction. I loved the color that was painted with the words i read, as the whole story was written out, through the generations of these people.
I read these books a long time ago. I really enjoyed them and how they progressed through time.
I was really excited to read this book, since the peopling of the Americas is one of my favorite subjects.
And I don't understand how so many people have given it 5 stars!First of all, just in the quarter of the book that I managed to get through, there are multiple rapes.
Plus, it's pretty gross that something as horrific as rape is used as a plot point so often, and treated so casually by so many people in the book - including the victims!
Third, the authors have clearly thought about the tools of the People more than basic story requirements like plot and character-building.
Definately not an easy book to get into, for numerous reasons (such as writing style, the slightly confusing names, etc), but once I got going, I found that I could not put it down.
Though one thing that I was really impressed with was the detailed exploration of the whole concept of shamanism and what it entails for a shaman (in this case, a Dreamer).
Not everyone may understand the whole concept of Dreaming, The One, The Dance and all that, but they way it was all put together fit perfectly with everything else I know about spirituality.
This is the first is a very long and still ongoing series of books. Even though each book stands alone as its own complete story there are nuances and references that, while not tying them all together, add another layer of depth to the world that the authors create and they all lead back to this book.The characters are engaging and believable, with strengths and weaknesses as well as flaws. The story is the classic grand scale brother against brother battle that engulf their entire world. It's a familiar story without being predictable and tedious.
I have had this series on my shelves for along time, and just recently picked up the first one. I had a hard time putting it down. the authors bring you to intense relationship with their characters, that make you root for this or that one, and breaks your heart when one dies. Any author that can bring me to emotion when a character is lost is worth reading! I am looking forward to reading the rest of this series.
The way her arc ends annoyed me but that's more of a personal preference, others might be okay with it.Raven Hunter is a young man born into a world of constant suffering.
While most of the main characters have a pacifist approach to life, Raven Hunter hypes the People into fighting back against the Others.
I didn't even notice that he had changed until after it happened but it made total sense.In the end the thing that made this book work so well was not the adventure or the epic scale of events but rather the ways that these primitive people change and work to make their world better.
And both Jacq’s books and the Gears’ books are definite misses for me.I think there’s a lesson to be learned here, and I say this as an archaeologist who has toyed with the idea of writing historical fiction myself – just knowing the history intimately does not make a great historical fiction novel.
An excellent knowledge of language, character development, plotting, and storycraft is required as well.
I found the Gears’ novel suffered from similar problems to Jacq’s: clunky, stilted dialogue, wooden and stereotyped characters, melodramatic plot, and prose that alternates between simplistic and purple.
These are just some of the names I found by skimming the first half of the book.
While reading this book I came across a sentence that started out, "Lumps in the snow .
. ." At first I thought this was a new character called "Lumps In the Snow", but after I finished the sentence and read on I realized this was REALLY!
Then try to fix the gender to the name to identify the character the next time she/he showed up by name only, so I could relate to it with my meager and "named tired" mind.The basic idea of the book was a good one.
This book is the beginning of a series of truly awesome reading.
When I checked it out in the library it was for a college assignment.
The author describes the people and surroundings so well it wisks you away to that time period.
Waiting weeks at times for some and that was very hard to do.
If you enjoy reading about the Native American people these books are a must read.
The author is an archeologist who does extensive research to make his book complete.
Personnally, I think this book and all the ones that follow are super rereads.
All of these North American series books were recommended to me by my Grandpa Dudley, who recently passed away.
He would read these books, then send them on to me to read.
Through reading and discussing them, my Grandpa and I grew closer these last few years of his life.
Maybe that's why I enjoyed them so much.
Or maybe it was because they were all such great, unique stories filled with details about each Native American tribe but with brilliant, twisting plots, action and mysticism.
So you'll have to read each synopsis to see what interests you.
The brothers Runs in Light and Raven Hunter are the result of an act of violence done upon a woman of the People by a man of the Others.
The characters in these books are tough, and reading about how they rise above these experiences is satisfying.
These are fun, enjoyable books that don't have to be read in order, which is a good thing because this series is huge - somewhere around 30 books now.
I've gone years without reading a People of the...
It's not great literature, but it's good for what it is: light fiction about ancient Native Americans.
I read the first two or three of these, probably hoping they'd fill the gap waiting for the next Earth's Children book to come out (this was a looong time ago, obvs). Sadly, I found them lacking. The writing is pedestrian at best and the characters were little more than caricatures.
The audiobook reader for this is amazing! He managed to create unique and believable voices for a cast of 8+ major characters.Had some trouble suspending my disbelief on just how effective the dreamers' magic was. And I was caught off-guard a couple times by anachronistic language "she steepled her fingers" (wait what, steeples don't exist yet). Otherwise, another great historical look by author-archaeologists, at a time and a people long gone but very much like us.
MichaelGear, Kathleen O'neal Review: People of the wolf the wonderful story of a boy finding the way into a new world, the dynamics of twins of light fighting darkness.
One brother finds the path to light, a literal path to saving the people, by leading the people through a hole in the ice, and peace with the others.
This is the first book in an epic series, bringing light and dark in conflict over and over throughout the ages.....
This entire series is EXCELLENT.
I won't list all the books on goodreads cuz there are just too many, but I will tell you the ones I remember the most and were probably what I would consider, the "best".People of the EarthPeople of the SeaPeople of the LightningPeople of the Lakes** Very very good!People of the RiverThere are a few news ones also!
So, if you are interested in how the various Native American cultures lived and loved, you will definitely get sucked into this series!
Oh, one thing, they are stand-alone books, so you don't have to read them in order or anything :)
I have not been able to put this series down since I first found it a few months ago. It is written by a husband and wife who are both Archaeologists. They have written a series of books called The First North Americans, as well as each writing their own individual books. Though the stories are mainly fictional, they are supplemented by real archaeological and historical findings and facts. Very intense at moments and really sad at others, overall, an excellent read.
Not to be missed. Especially by fans of Clan of the Cave Bear. Unbelievably good writing and the book(series) is based on a real tribe and their beliefs and lifestyles. These two authors aer archeologists and actually studied the tribal remains etc. before writing each of these books. Years of study and learning have gone into each of these amazing books.
I devoured ALL of these books. At times the flow of descriptive data about the local flora and fauna can be daunting but I found it to be enriching and informative for the most part. The Relationships, Character strugles and the dynamics of survival are spectacular.
I really enjoyed this book and the complex storyline and multidimensional characters. It was both well-researched and respectful of Native American culture. I look forward to reading further titles in this saga.
LOVED IT
Both have Spirit People--those that either sing, visions or dreams.Runs In Light has visions of what is to be.
People around him are wary and some make fun of him, especially one, Raven Hunter who is his twin brother.
Raven Hunter can only think of power and shuns the dreams that Runs in Light has.
Runs in Light takes the name Wolf Dreamer because it's a wolf that leads him to a hole in the ice wall that will save his people.There are many travels in the book and in one, the Wolf Dreamer meets Heron, a very powerful dreamer who teaches him the way.
I didn't want to read it yet because I could feel that there'd be contents in it I wasn't sure I was ready for.
There was a lot of spiritual information and messages that I know for sure that I've been ignoring or haven't accepted readily enough.
It gave me a lot to think about as far as my duties on this Earth.
Also, having read People of the Lakes and River before this I think I like this one the most.
I don't know much about the early history of Turtle Island or our race as a whole, so I'd like to dive in further about all the peoples mentioned here.
A well-rounded story. I haven't read much about prehistoric times, and this was a good introduction.
This book has taught me to never abuse poisonous mushrooms.
Interesting start to this series and great for anyone who wondered how the first people came to the American continent in prehistoric times. Fiction woven beautifully with history and real facts.
Runs with Light is given a dream, one that could potentially save his people, although it involves a perilous journey under Ice into a new world.
Raven Hunter is the warrior, who is determined to save the people and gain power by fighting their enemies.
Both Raven Hunter and Runs With Light have some serious mental issues going on.
I can't say I like him but I found him a better character than Runs In Light.The plot was a bit mystical.
You have all these dreamers running around try to save their people.
