https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60792.The_Accidental_Tourist
It looks like I'm in the minority here, but I really did not enjoy this book.
I couldn't sympathize with any of the characters.
I thought Macon was whiny and indecisive.
I couldn't be compelled to care about what he wanted, mostly because it was never made clear to me exactly what that was.
More than anything else, my problem with this book is that nothing happened.
I kept thinking that possibly in the next chapter Macon would act in some way to change his own destiny, but nope.
Nothing even happened in the end, the book just seemed to stop.
This is a novel by and for mature adults that finds a wonderful balance between the melancholy of losing a child and long term spouse in the same year and the excitement of meeting someone new, with its awkwardness, miscommunication and urges to flee to the familiar.The story focuses on Macon Leary, a methodical and steady man of 42 who's introduced driving himself and his mercurial wife Sarah home from a beach vacation that wrapped up early when neither found the heart for it.
But Tyler does a great job in making all characters believable and all situations credible...
you feel very bad for the guy you basically would hate to have around you.
His intellectual edge is minuscule, and you feel bad for all other "dumber" characters too.
It's slightly symbolic, but also rather, UM, small.It is wise to note that other books by this particular publishing company such as "The Patron Saint of Liars" by Anne Patchett or "The World According to Garp" by John Irvin also seem to fit within this category of above-average reads-- which you may or may not be inspired to recommend, depending on the mood, the weather, the person.
In this book, The Accidental Tourist, the father, Macon Leary starts to withdraw to his own world he would imagine that his whole body was enclosed in a cast and people would peep into the hole in his eyes and would asked “Macon, are you there?” However, Tyler's story went further: Macon seems to belief that the soul of his dead son, Ethan remains in his son’s dog, Edward and no matter how strange or brutal the dog behaves, he keeps it and even hires a dog-trainer Muriel to tame the dog.The Accidental Tourist was the 1985 novel by Anne Tyler (born 1941).
Julie and Joe talk about Anne Tyler (and Larry McMurtry) as a writer who "accurately communicates my desire to read and write about the two things that mean the most to me in this life: heart and groin." Which, Julie, lol, "groin," that's right there with "moist" on the list of Words That Could Technically Be About Sex But Will Kill The Mood Right Dead.
Right, this person whom I've never read but now she's going on the list.Addendum: Julie & Joe agree that this isn't even the right book, I should start with Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant.
Yet another simple, but beautiful story from Anne Tyler about Macon whose son died a couple of years ago, and whose wife suddenly decides to leave him.
It's remarkable to see what changes he goes through during the 400 pages of this novel, and it's an inspiration to read about him as well as the people he surrounds himself with.
It made me feel good to read about them, and I felt for Macon and all of the changes he went through.
Anne Tyler is a remarkable author because she writes simplistic stories that manages to hit you spot-on.
In Macon Leary, the man who writes travel books for people who hate to travel, Tyler has created an amazing character.
His damaged psyche, his vulnerability, the gradual changes in his character and outlook as he starts to connect with the messiness of living leap off the page.
Although Macon is the centre of the novel, the supporting characters are also wonderful creations.
Some fifteen years after last reading what is without doubt my favourite of Anne Tyler's novels, it was a joy to return to it as a buddy read with my friend Jemidar.
If anything, I loved the novel even more than I did when I read and loved it all those years ago.
A character from one of her first books (I think it was If Morning Ever Comes) provided the name I later gave to my daughter.
It was while reading this book in about 1987 that I first felt moved to pick up a pen and begin scratching out my own story.I should say that the book and the movie are forever intertwined in my mind now: When I think of Macon and Muriel, I see William Hurt and Geena Davis.
It’s very rare for the film version of any book to be anywhere near as good as the source, but in this case both are excellent.
Macon Leary writes travel companions under the nom de plume The Accidental Tourist.
The irony is that while he helps thousands of people keep their lives together as they travel, he cannot help his own life from falling apart before his eyes.This is my first Anne Tyler, a writer who I've always relegated to someone that my mother might enjoy.
However, since many people who I respect have given very positive reviews to Tyler in the past I thought I'd give her a go.
Its slice-of-life monotony is usually something that I look for in a novel but The Accidental Tourist just gave me...
Diese Hefte aus vergangen Zeiten stehen für mich stellvertretend für unrealistische Märchenprinz-Romantik, bei der sich schon seit Urzeiten bei mir sprichwörtlich die feministischen Zehennägel vor Grausen und Empörung aufdrehen.Aber worum geht es: Die Ehe von Macon Leary ist infolge des Todes des Sohnes, der bei einem Überfall im Feriencamp erschossen wird, in einer veritablen Krise.
"Wir sind die konventionellsten Menschen, die ich kenne."Das entsprach zwar durchaus der Wahrheit, paradoxerweise aber wieder auch nicht.Was im Plot dann anschließend folgt, ist ein grandios amüsantes Paradebeispiel an Hundeerziehung und die Hartnäckigkeit der chaotischen Hundetrainerin Muriel, die sich einbildet, eine Beziehung zu Macon aufbauen zu wollen, es auch letztendlich schafft und das Leben von Mr. Leary total umkrempelt.
I do love Anne Tyler and this book was, per usual, a great read.
Buddy read with Kim.I first read this back in the late eighties and loved it, and recently decided to do a re-read just to see if I still loved it as much.
And I'm happy to say that not only do I still love it, but I think I love it a lot more than I did the first time around.
Call it accumulated life experience if you like, but it had a resonance and a poignancy that touched me at a much deeper level.
I would love to count Macon Leary amoung my friends.Anne Tyler is an amazing author.
This is the first “classic” Tyler I’ve read, after her three most recent novels, and although I kept being plagued by odd feelings of ‘reverse déjà vu’, I really enjoyed it. This story of staid, reluctant traveler Macon Leary and how his life is turned upside down by a flighty dog trainer is all about the patterns of behavior we get stuck in. Tyler suggests that occasionally journeying into someone else’s unpredictable life might change ours for the good.
Reading this book made me anxious to get back to my life that I'm happy with and not try and live with such sad characters.Muriel was so pushy and desperate.
I skipped ahead to try and see where their relationship was going.
Muriel let that man in to her son's life knowing that he was still conflicted about his ex-wife?
And the saddest part is that I imagine that there are so many people who like this story and these characters because they know people who live like this and think these are normal relationships.
I finished this book a few days ago and have had to wait a few days to be able to write a review.
I didn't particulary care for any of the characters until the end(except for the brash and tacky Muriel whom I loved all along).
You will love Macon's transformation and watching him learn to live, not again, but for the first time ever.
Its in my soul as all my favorite books are-a treasure I whole-heartedly recommend to anyone who breathes.
Tanto da dire.Troppo poco un solo romanzo per decidere se una scrittrice prolifica come Anne Tyler mi piaccia oppure no.Posso dire, però, che questo romanzo non mi è piaciuto moltissimo, e soprattutto che a non piacermi non è stata tanto la storia - che già conoscevo per aver visto nell'anno che fu il film di Lawrence Kasdan con William Hurt Kathleen Turner e Geena Davis al cinema, anzi ho scelto questo romanzo proprio perché 'già' conoscevo la storia - ma il modo in cui è scritto.Per spiegarmi meglio, è uno di quei rari casi in cui applaudo allo sceneggiatore del film, che abile come un giardiniere, ha sfrondato le troppe lungaggini di una storia che se fosse passata per le mani, che so, di un Lish qualsiasi, sarebbe risultata molto più incisiva e penetrante.Perché la storia di Macon e Sarah Leary, sposati da vent'anni, e… come si dice quando due genitori perdono un figlio?
What follows is a devastating, humorous, uplifting and satisfying series of events and adventures that begin when Macon agrees to have his wayward Corgi Edward trained by Muriel, a strange but enthusiastic employee he meets at the Meow Bow Animal Hospital.I just fell in love with these characters and their quirks.
I loved how the author fit together the most unlikely pairs and showed how they brought out the best in each other.
The ending was quite a shock and I'm not sure what the future holds for these characters and their choices, but it was a good place for the author to end the book.
I guess this will always be one of my all time favourite books.
For me, it worked on all levels, I loved the story, characters and the routine absurdities that form part and parecel of everyday life.
I think this is the best book Anne Tylor has written and I've read all of them.
On a personal level, this book will always mean a lot to me, introducing a kind of anal retentive anti hero who yet manages to be both appealing and desirable.
It also taught me that heroism comes in many shapes and forms and that it is not always the handsome and strong who caspture our hearts.
3.5 This book was a solid 3 stars. The ending edged it up to 3.5. It was the only ending I would have been satisfied with. I liked the story line more than the characters. The story was about hanging on, letting go, and recognizing what is right in front of you before it was too late. I enjoyed that part of it. The characters, however, were a little too bizarre. They were a little crazy. Sometimes a sane person helps to anchor the story, at least in my mind. So 3 stars.
When he encounters Muriel, a dog trainer who works at his dog's kennel, he learns to embrace the new and exciting things in life.
As always, Anne Tyler is a master at observation.
Her characters are so quirky and full of life, but not too exaggerated to be unrealistic.
I loved Macon's development throughout the story and enjoyed learning about his upbringing, how that shaped his present, and to see him move his life towards a new future.
Tyler is a master at storytelling and character-building, and holds her claim as one of my all-time favorite authors.
Sometime later he has to leave go on a trip and has to board edward at an animal hospital ( his brothers & sister are afraid of him) this is where he meets Muriel & his life changes .
Slowly with Muriel he begins to open up & enjoy life again.On the cover of the paperback book from 25 years ago their is a small snipit from the Washington Post,I didn't notice it the first time around & it sayes the following----one cannot reasonably expect fiction to be much better than this-----I am going to spend the rest of this year(or however long it takes) rereading all the booksThat I had given five stars to,just to see if they meet that standard.
Ann Tyler has a unique style of writing a novel, which left me always wanting to know more.
I like Ann Tyler's way of sneaking up on you through an interesting story and then revealing to you at the end that what you believed were absolutes are actually gray areas (Barbara Kingsolver does this to me too).
To me this story is so hopeful and happy because Macon does find a new way of life and he realizes that there is not one right way to live, there can be many, and that is what makes life so full.
I love that we clearly have this character that loves order, routines and everything exactly as he wants it for no other reason other than that it makes him feel better to have it that way.
So of course if you rite about a character that goes through those things, he will go through a good amount of changes throughout the entire book.
They where unhappy, so that could be excused with that BUT for the most part non of the characters seemed to want to change their whinny and frankly pount-y feeling behaviour.
I have mixed feelings about this book. I enjoyed the tenderness and melancholy of the writing. I struggled often with the very slow pace of the story that deals with the lonely and monotonous life of a middle-aged man grieving over a failed marriage and the loss of his only child. For me the strength of the book are the characters, which are delicately drawn, and their relationship with each other. 2  stars.
I have mixed feelings about this book. I enjoyed the tenderness and melancholy of the writing. I struggled often with the very slow pace of the story that deals with the lonely and monotonous life of a middle-aged man grieving over a failed marriage and the loss of his only child. For me the strength of the book are the characters, which are delicately drawn, and their relationship with each other. 2 ½ stars.
I am an unabashed Ann Tyler fanboy. She can write about things that in another author`s hands would be mundane or cliched but with her remain completely riveting, warm and funny and desperately sad. The Accidental Tourist is the story of a man with very limited ability to handle change who in the aftermath of his sons death tries to live. This may not sound like the funniest scenario ever but there are some great moments. Loved it.
I am an unabashed Ann Tyler fanboy. She can write about things that in another author`s hands would be mundane or cliched but with her remain completely riveting, warm and funny and desperately sad. The Accidental Tourist is the story of a man with very limited ability to handle change who in the aftermath of his sons death tries to live. This may not sound like the funniest scenario ever but there are some great moments. Loved it.
When I began reading this book, I was not sure if I will really like it.
But, then it was a book from Anne Tyler so I continued on because she is one of the authors I am a big fan of.
Thank God that my faith in Anne Tyler made me not give up this book early on because I simply loved this book.
Macon is one character whom I loved, felt sorry for and also hated at some point of time.
But, in the end I felt that you cannot really take sides in a story like this.
I started reading Anne Tyler in the 70s and haven't stopped.
I generally like her older fiction better with the more quirky characters and the richer text.
The Accidental Tourist is still my favorite book because of the theme of potential for renewal of life after tragedy and that, as we all know, life is about unpredictability, no matter how predictable Macon and his brothers and sisters try to make it.
Not as well as the book, but Ms. Tyler gave them priceless characters and great lines to work with.
I need to read this book again soon in fact!
Things I liked about the book: humorous details, the symbolism (the house, the dog), driving plotThings I am not sure that I like: the guy's wife leaves him and he "takes up" with a vibrant young woman who has a kid and a hard life.
I don't know who I want him to be with, since his life has somewhat changed for the better with the younger woman, and she saves him from his bitter, OCD life, but he does still love his wife and to me marriage is a sacred bond...
If you're interested in reading a book that will challenge every single emotion you thought was possible.....this one will not disappoint. I was able to step inside the psyche of every single character and understand to the fullest extent their feelings of loss, fear, sadness,desperation and frustration.....simply because I have been there myself.This story will reveal what really happens when someone loses a child. Best have your Kleenex closeby.
A decent read, but I didn't love it, for the following reasons:1. The dog training scenes were unrealistic, and borderline cruel. I realize this isn't a dog training book. I only hope that Anne Tyler is a cat person.2. Muriel's desperation was overwhelming, and off-putting.3. My usual complaint about character development and show-versus-tell. I did not discover Macon, he was handed to me as a pre-packaged collection of quirks and tragic back story.
