https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57901.Lonesome_Traveler
Some of the final sections of Lonesome Traveler are really worth reading. New York Scenes, Alone on a Mountaintop and the Vanishing American Hobo provide interesting insight on Kerouac and the beat writers. I think this is another work Kerouac finished at breakneck speed and refused to edit. It is uneven, but definitely has gems as well!
I felt how it is to live just so you can die like a bull trapped in a screaming human ring.Το απόσπασμα δίνει ακριβώς τον τόνο της μελαγχολίας που διατρέχει όλα τα διηγήματα της συγκεκριμένης συλλογής.
Με την επιθυμία της φυγής, του ταξιδιού, ως κέντρο βάρους, η νατουραλιστική πρόζα του Kerouac περιγράφει την περιδιάβασή του στις πόλεις σαν σε πραγματικό χρόνο, με επιμονή στις λεπτομέρειες, αλλά και με ελλειπτικό χαρακτήρα - με προτάσεις δηλαδή κοφτές, απότομες και σε στιγμές απόλυτες.
Η πρόζα του Kerouac, με συχνό ασύνδετο σχήμα, είναι άμεση, προσιτή και οικεία, ενώ θυμίζει έντονα συζήτηση γύρω από ποτό και τσιγάρα (μιας και μιλάμε για τον Kerouac).
Forget On the Road, this is the book to read of Kerouac.
"On the Road" is fine, but is hampered by Kerouac's thinly disguised hankering after Dean Moriarty (Neal Cassady in real life).
The whole book I was going "Hey, Sal, the guys a sociopath, get over it!".In any case, those problems aren't in this collection of essays on the traveling life Kerouac had in the late 40's and 50's.
Rather we get the beat prose on being a hobo, a railman, a solitary guy in a fire lookout, a traveler in Morocco and Europe.
Η σοφία μπορεί ν' αποκτηθεί μόνο από την οπτική γωνία της μοναξιάςΕίναι για 3,5 γιάτι κάνει μια κοιλιά στην αρχή, με έναν καταιγισμό από ονόματα και τοποθεσίες που με έβαλε σε σκέψεις για την πρώτη μου επάφη με τον Κερουάκ...Το υπόλοιπο του βιβλίου όμως ήταν απολαυστικότατο μπορώ να πω, με υπέροχες περιγραφές των βιωμάτων και των τόπων που επισκέφτηκε ο hobo-συγγραφέας μας...
¨Η σοφία μπορεί ν' αποκτηθεί μόνο από την οπτική γωνία της μοναξιάς¨Είναι για 3,5 γιάτι κάνει μια κοιλιά στην αρχή, με έναν καταιγισμό από ονόματα και τοποθεσίες που με έβαλε σε σκέψεις για την πρώτη μου επάφη με τον Κερουάκ...Το υπόλοιπο του βιβλίου όμως ήταν απολαυστικότατο μπορώ να πω, με υπέροχες περιγραφές των βιωμάτων και των τόπων που επισκέφτηκε ο hobo-συγγραφέας μας...
Автобиография на Джак Керуак, в която гари и влакове, американски улици и пейзажи, кораби и автобуси, океани, равнини и планини, горещи мексикански момичета, симпатични френски ученички, индианци, просяци, мексиканци, бродяги, араби, моряци, Уилям Бъроуз и Хенри Милър, опиум, марихуана и шамани, Танжер, Франция и Англия, писатели, поети и художници, самотни хижи, приюти и хотели, музика, алкохол и храна, барове, закусвални и ресторанти са животът му - едно самотно пътешествие не само по света, но и в неговото битническо време.
Живи описания и моменти, в които се случва много, редувани с кратки, накъсани фрази и безглаголни изречения.
Спокоен разказ, омесен с напушено бълнуване и делириумни спомени.
I started reading this on the US election day.
This book was a little odd in that it was re-telling stories he'd covered in other novels, but I really enjoyed the way he told them in this.
It was one of those great Kerouac descriptions were nothing much happens except two people bum around a bit, and it's simply engrossing.
I also really enjoyed his description of Morocco and Paris.
It was another fascinating read.
I feel like I'm getting close to having read everything he's written in a year.
There was one gorgeously cynical description that I really loved.
'Mexico Fellaheen' and the bullfight was probably the best single scene to read, while 'The Railroad Earth' had a lot of difficult, well, boring parts until he's actually on the train and traveling; then it's magnificent.
'Alone on a Mountaintop' was like a much more condensed 'Desolation Angels' telling a related, but different story to what's in the full, book version.
I admit to preferring this version and it's Catholic-Buddhist conclusion.
It took me a couple of chapters to get into this book, once Jack started writing about working on trains, you could really feel his love for trains and I was able to get into the story then.
This is a collection of stories from Jack's travels, featuring America, Mexico, Morocco, Paris and London.
I was looking forward to reading about his time in Europe, I wanted to compare his experience to Henry Miller and George Orwell, but it was very different, it was all very spiritual for him, all those old churches and old paintings.One of the chapters is about his experiences as a fire watcher on mount desolation, which happens at the end of the Dharma Bums novel.
I think I expected this to be like Orwell's down & out in Paris & London, which it was in part.
The first half of the book is really repeatative and boring.
Reading about one train was enough for me but there was the odd beauty of a sentence that pushed me on.
This is really short but has taken me a little while probably due to the first half.
The second half was exactly what I wanted!
I have a total literary crush on Jack and I love to read the romance he sees in the everyday.
A continuation of the conversationalist and sensationalist style that we know. Kerouac's elongated sentences, unorthodox usage of grammar and atypical writing methods is as cumbersome here as it ever was. There's no sense faulting his manipulation of the senses through the written word, but the stories herein are presumably much better heard in the midst of a smoky, whiskey-soaked beat poetry bar, somewhere in the caverns of New York.
Pretty likable collection of short pieces written by Ti-Jean chronicling his railroading man days, jazz parties guzzling dago red piss and more mountaintop madness. Most of it rocks and his stream of consciousness style which rules this book keeps the action fresh and frisky.
Quite possibly the worst book I read in 2012.At some point, I stuck pins in my eyes and poured bleach into my ears, just so I could experience a different sort of pain.How thankful I am that I don't have any more Kerouac on my shelves
A lot of this was pretty redundant, given the autobiographical nature of his fiction, but it was still a nice little window into the stories behind the stories.
What a great book to find in the hostel where I am staying.It certainly reveals the man under the myth,and what stands out for me is his integrity and fearless spirit.From the introduction he gives quite a different picture than critics and most fans derive:Always considered writing my duty on earth.Also the preachment of universal kindness which hysterical critics have failed to notice...Am actually not beatbut strange solitary crazy Catholic mystic....Well well well.
What a great book to find in the hostel where I am staying.It certainly reveals the man under the myth,and what stands out for me is his integrity and fearless spirit.From the introduction he gives quite a different picture than critics and most fans derive:Always considered writing my duty on earth.Also the preachment of universal kindness which hysterical critics have failed to notice...Am actually not ´beat´but strange solitary crazy Catholic mystic....Well well well.
I've read enough Kerouac at this juncture to feel pretty qualified to make broad statements about his work.
The book is broken out into sections based on geography, keeping them relatively short and keeping Kerouac mostly focused on this subject, rather than going off the rails.
You know the spirit of these books if you've read much Kerouac.
He's always interested in involving himself with the adventures of the people he meets on the way, and (when he is at his best) he writes with seemingly effortless zen beauty about how it feels to walk through the big empty spaces of America and the fleeting connections we make to each other.
I may not be the type who would be doing railroad work at this time, or hitchike for that matter, but the drive to keep on going, to find more things and what we can do with life is a great deal to carry.Among the essays included in this collection, my favorite one would have to be "Alone on a Mountaintop".
There is variety in the way Kerouac presented the theme, from cities to railroads, to people and places, even the earth and the sea.
Es el primer libro de relatos que leo y es espectacular.En él toca temas como los vagabundos; su viaje a Europa cuando ya había empezado a ser un escritor reconocido; su trabajo en el barco; en la montaña, la religión, habla de Nueva York -el lugar donde mejor se desenvuelve-.Todos temas que toca en otras novelas más en profundidad.Me impresiona y emociona la manera en la que Kerouac describe gente que él quiso o apreció.
En «La extinción del vagabundo americano» cuenta la experiencia de dormir en las calles y cómo cambió con el paso de los años en EE.UU.Si ya leyeron Kerouac y les gustó, tienen que leer «Viajero solitario» para conocerlo mucho más.

Конденсированный Керуак. Все темы, весь диапазон приемов - от ономатопеи и "спонтанного письма" до тру-журналистики, практически весь спектр персонажей - и вновь по тому же кругу мирской суеты, что и в остальных книгах, но вкратце. Если начинать с Керуаком знакомство, то, я бы сказал, лучше именно с этой книжки.Человек здесь - и герой-рассказчик, и читатель с ним заодно - в непрестанном поиске нуль-родины. Это, пожалуй, свойственно всем битникам и всем их текстам, но в "Одиноком страннике" ощущается как-то особенно остро.
Παρόλο που το on the road το αγάπησα, αυτό το βιβλίο με κούρασε. Επί 220 σελίδες περιγράφει τοπία, τρένα, πλοία και αλήτες. Και το θεϊστικό παραλήρημα που επικρατεί στα τελευταία κεφάλαια είναι απλώς εξαντλητικό.
Восхитительный трип. Керуак - мой Белый Кролик. Травелог большого ребенка.
PRO: The sketches in this memoir show K to be an observant writer, using poetic language that doesn’t make for a relaxing straight-through read but does make for a great study in descriptive exposition for would-be writers.
Far from stream-of-consciousness or spontaneous prose, these well-chosen words are carefully worked out.CON: In the final analysis there is no So What.
For all his reputation of seeking, there is no transcendence or even greater understanding transmitted to us.
His is a case of white privilege gone slumming with no need to struggle.
A good book but not one of Kerouacs best. I enjoyed the writing style and flow tho. All in all a good book but not a must-read.
A good book but not one of Kerouac´s best. I enjoyed the writing style and flow tho. All in all a good book but not a must-read.
Autobiographical pictures from Kerouac's travels, written in his inimitable natural style
„Бродягата разполага с два часовника, които не мога да се купят в „Тифани“ – на едната китка носи слънцето, на другата – луната, на каишки от небе.“„ДУШАТА НА БРОДЯГАТА Е ИЗТЪКАНА ОТ ГОРДОСТ, тъй като той не общува с никого освен със себе си, с други бродяги и може би с някое куче.“ „Великото чувство, че влизаш в Чистата земя, още повече, че е толкова близо до враждебните физиономии от Аризона и Тексас и целия Югозапад, но можеш да откриеш това чувство, това фелахско отношение към живота, това щастливо безвремие на хора, които не се занимават със сериозни културни и цивилизационни проблеми, чувство, което можеш да откриеш почти навсякъде другаде – в Мароко, в Латинска Америка, в Дакар , в Кюрдистан.Няма „насилие“ в Мексико, това са просто измислици на холивудски сценаристи или на писатели, които ходят в Мексико, за да търсят насилие – познавам един американец, който ходеше в Мексико, за да се бие по баровете, понеже там обикновено не те арестуват за хулиганско поведение, боже мой, виждал съм мъже, които се боричкат на шега насред улицата, спират движението, заливат се от смях, а хората минават и се усмихват.
I'm giving this book 4 stars for the last part, The Vanishing American Hobo.
In this, Kerouac is not really lamenting the lost hobo life or glamorizing it.
I read this "chapter" twice, it was that moving.I also gave it 4 stars for "Railroad Earth", as I was careening down to San Jose on a train with Kerouac.
I love old trains, and if you can't ride one but you love them too, read this.
In these chapters it was fun to roam around with him, but Railroad Earth and The Vanishing American Hobo made this book a very worthwhile read
" When you realize that God is Everything you know that you’ve got to, love everything no matter how
I'd never read Kerouac before.
So, when I started this book it took me a while to get the hang of his writing style.
I feel as though Kerouac wrote to be read out loud - it felt a lot more natural to follow this way, and it reinforced the theatricality of some of the characters he met on his travels.
Best sections for me, came on wards from 'Slobs of the Kitchen Sea'.
Sometimes I felt that I was cheating Kerouac a little bit as I raced through each section, following the quick pace of his writing style.
I romanzi di Kerouac sono sempre stati contorniati da libertà e follia.
Leggendo i suoi romanzi, si ha la sensazione di pensare e dire : "Cavolo, quest'uomo ha vissuto".
Ebbene sì, Kerouac ha vissuto.
Ha condotto una vita all'eccesso, tra anfetamine, cannabis, codeina, ha vissuto le mille emozioni della sua vita e questo libro ne è la testimonianza più palese.
"Viaggiatore solitario" non è altro che un documento di viaggio che parte dall'America e attraversa la California, Seattle, Marocco, Tangeri tra i berberi, Parigi ("Una coltellata al cuore"), svolgendo ogni tipo di lavoro e vivendo ogni tipo di esperienza.
Un viaggio nella follia, nella bellezza, nella pazzia dell'universo Kerouac.
Each chapter in this loose travelogue appears to be the warm up for one of Kerouac's novels.
Entire passages are identical in Lonesome Traveler and the subsequent novel.
In this latter case, many show a much seamier side of the hobo life, in which the traveler's life is often threatened.The final chapter of the book laments societal changes that followed World War II.
Toleration of the poor in general, and hobos in particular erodes, leading to beefed up police departments, increasing surveillance of the populace, and a general loss in individual freedom.
A fitting preface to our camera-obsessed world...
