https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11781.Wonderland
I'm really digging Joyce Carol Oates. This is the second novel I've read by her. The first was MY SISTER, MY LOVE, which was also great.
While I cannot fault Joyce Carol Oates' masterful prose, I did not enjoy reading this novel. Jesse, the protagonist, is pushed from one absurdly tragic situation to the other without a break or a single moment of humor or levity. It caused me to become frustrated with the novel and the characters within it. This is not to say that others may not adore this book, in fact clearly many do. For me, however, the unrelenting mood of surreal sadness simply wore on me after awhile, and I was glad when the novel was done.
Then he marries and has two daughters, and the third section of the novel proceeds much like Roth's American Pastoral, in the way that Jesse's youngest daughter runs away from home and gets involved with that Kooky Sixties Counterculture, to the point where Jesse's final act becomes the quest to find her in some urban slum and return her to the home.Oates's ending is meant to suggest that despite everything Jesse does in the second third of this novel to become anybody but either the homicidally crazed father that sired him or the obsessively crazed father that raised him, he's doomed to repeat the very same acts of parental control he once suffered from.
I didn't know anything about it, but I recognized the author's name, and it was a nice-looking hard-bound book for just 50 cents or something like that, so I got it.It has been on my bookshelf for a couple of years since then, and I finally read it.
he knew that a living cell performs certain miraculous acts, that it contains a kind of electricity, and that a dead cell performs no acts, goes through no sequence of characteristic, identifying acts, and is nothing.
Also, even though I like the look of the book, I don't think I will be keeping it now that I've finally read it.
Many of Oates first novels were written at the peak of her talent.
Oates invades the mentality of a character acutely and her research is astounding in it detail.
The principal character of Wonderland, Jesse, never really recovers from the childhood trauma of seeing his father massacre his family.
Jesse proceeds through life mechanically, becoming a renowned neurosurgeon.
He takes refuge in the routines of his life, which are ultimately disrupted by his beloved daughter Shelley who vanishes into the turmoil of the counterculture of the 60’s.
The thoughts of her characters clamour and fragment and the reader is swept along hypnotically.
It is extremely hard to tell you why I loved this book.
It's not for everyone and I'm sure some people will love it and others hate it or feel bogged down by parts of it.
It's the story of Jesse Vogel, who begins life in a rural upstate NY town, where he is running for his life from his father, who has murdered his whole family.
Oate's stream of consciousness style in this particular book (she is always different) helps us peel away layers of Jesse and the other main characters.
Oates is prolific and every book has something to offer.
Pick up any book of hers and you'll want to read it cover to cover as fast as possible.
This one was no different, except the plot was slightly disappointing; several amazing plot points were sort of dropped unceremoniously.
The main character's wife and kids never find out that his father murdered his mom and all his siblings.
The morbidly obese family of geniuses drop away suddenly mid-book and you only hear of them obliquely after that.
Other, less interesting subplots are also dropped.
Huge chunks of the main character's life are skipped over and only moments from them referred to.
Still, a unique and crazy book, worth reading.
I read half of this book and finally got bogged down by the dense prose and the hair's breadth-to-hair's breadth account of every single patient, impression, and thought of the main characters.
So I didn't finish it.
There is no one who is more a master of prose writing than Joyce Carol Oates, but maybe she has an unfulfilled subconscious wish to be a psychologist.
Or maybe she is just so much brighter than the rest of us that she is in some stratosphere...I don't know; I like some of her books but some of them I can't read at all.
Oates' depiction of distorted mind states is, on first encounter, striking. The problem is every character seems to be in a distorted mind state at all times, which gets to be a bit tiring.
There were also several times where I put the book down, not because I was tired, but because the stories of his residency, or the graphic account of his wife's hysteria-ridden pregnancy test, made me sick to my stomach.Even when I did put it down, though, I found myself thinking about the characters--the megalomaniacs, the psychopaths (I'm not even sure whether there was any heroic or likable character in it at all), and how much our generation is different in its ideas of self-determination than Jesse's, or even his children's.It did disturb me a little to see that Oates considered Jesse's rescue of his daughter an act of demonic paternalism (although most of the book disturbed me anyway).
I do see her point, also that maybe his motivations for rescuing Shelly were more self-centered than stemming from an actual love for his family.
I still think it's a very good book, though.
I tried. I read every word on every page and drug myself through page after page of disgusting descriptions and unlikely situations and in the end....In the end I was left wishing that someone really would die tonight
Rounding up to two stars. I kept thinking it would get better
She has been brainwashed by Noel into believing Jesse is the devil and he is forced to ask himself if he has become his father in some way.In the afterward to the novel that Oates wrote in an edition that appeared twenty years after its original publication she recalls her original dedication—to “all of us who pursue the phantasmagoria of personality”.
My daughter (not a reader) asked me to recommend and select any one Oates' book to read and write her paper on.
I started this book without even really knowing much about the plot (rare for me), except that it revolved around a medical doctor.Progress and preliminary thoughts: As I write this review, I am on page 267 out of 477.
Additionally during this time, Jesse also took an entire semester of his 9th grade year off from his (low SES) school (must have been, as the Vogel family was exceedingly poor).
I had been meaning to read a Joyce Carol Oates novel for years and recently found this in a free book box.
Oates has this highly narrative stream of consciousness approach to prose and character studies that's an effortless read for me.
Dr. Pedersen was so vivid, so distinct among all the characters I've ever read, so troubling.
I get that he's traumatized and withdrawn, but with so many colorful and interesting things happening all around him, he feels more like a passenger than a protagonist and I got bored whenever questions of his desires and personal fulfillment were on the table.
First off, this is the only Joyce Carol Oates book I have read, and I picked this one because somewhere I found a review that gave good reasons for why I would appreciate it.
and yet something was missing."The repetitive, dull thud of her sentences (here, the pronoun - past continuous verb combination) is tiring.-- I had the idea that the book was supposed to be in some way realistic, but it was just not believable.
I did finish reading it, after all, and I can imagine that other people would appreciate it.
I read through much of it in quick, exhausting gulps, because the constant underlying tension propelled me - and that is fascinating in way, because it isn't like a lot of really exciting things happen or that there is something to wait for in the story.
It should be noted that the second phase of the book is about a family with some pretty major abuse, disorder and identity Stuff, and part of their Stuff is food and weight...and the author either writes convincingly as someone who really really hates fat people or she just really really hates fat people.
Also: I thought the author's afterword cast The Point of the book in a way that didn't track for me.
i commented to my wife that it was a beautifully orchestrated train wreck.
a slowly evolving one.
i was practically fascinated by the way jesse seamlessly transitioned from from one chapter of his life into the next.
his ego was an amalgamation of the various father figures in his life and his life was reflected as muchas the father of a daughter, the last part was difficult to read.
actually, as a father, the entire book was.
the last few pages i had to set the book down and brace myself for having my heart broken.
it was, bittersweetis this the book that makes me a better parent?
(The afterword is fantastic, too.) I wonder if presenting the characters overwhelmingly through their behaviour would be sufficient. Not seeing how they process their experiences internally and consciously, I miss seeing well rounded persons, whatever their vicissitudes be, in place of anemic ghosts. The characters don't reflect, don't take their time in selecting their best possible options, blundering half-consciously, or not even, through their lives. Is this exactly the point of the book? Would then the afterword provide an answer when confessing to a welling up of the unconscious (where characters are usually not about persons but inner processes)?
I am dissatisfied. I might have felt less critical had I read it when it first came out. I would have liked to have known what became of several more characters. But Most of them seem to have lived in their own heads without ever having connected with anyone. Freak the Mundanes, people. Apparently you can self examine yourself into a pit of despair. I often think there are many people like this, but I certainly hope not. Conversely, Oates writing is so good that I zipped right through it which is unusual for me.
Depressing depressing bookThis took me forever to read. I like bizarre story lines, but this one didn’t seem to make any progress. Just the retelling of tragic family stories one after another. No breaking of the vicious cycle. Lots of detail - too much detail, to the point of tediousness in reading. I got to the end and had a WTF moment. I am giving it 3 stars for the parts that had my attention...
I loved this book and above all, the writing, which kept the story moving at such an intense pace that I struggled every time I had to put the book down. I don't know why I'd never read anything by Joyce Carol Oates before, but I plan on reading another one very soon. I just have to decide which one.
What a surreal book. In a lot of ways I hated it - but the writing is ambitious and complex and clearly doing something interesting. Kind of like watching a train wreck occur, fascinating and horrible in equal measure.
The experience of reading this novel has left me with a great appreciation of Oates. I’ve read several of her novels and appreciate her mastery of the written word. The manner in which she is able to write in a style that is so fitting for each novel speaks to her enormous talent. Bravo.
I'm totally conflicted about this book. Joyce Carol Oates is my favorite living author. But this book is way too long and I actually don't think I liked it at all. Way too bizarre and often rambles on with no apparent purpose. Characters are unbelievable.
Interesting at first but went totally weird. I kept reading thinking there would be a scifi explanation maybe hypnotizim was involved. Completely lost me. Weird weird weird.
Oates at her best. A little melodrama slips in on occasion, thus the four stars.
Not as good as the others in the series.
Joyce Carol Oates doesn't get enough credit. This was an intense, "brain on fire" accomplishment.
Un libro potente, e anche imponente, eppure brevissimo rispetto al mio desiderio di saperne ancora e ancora di più sul destino di alcuni personaggi pericolosamente magnetici.
