https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/247090.The_MacGregor_Grooms
On Sunday, The Readventurer challenged us to read a book (or three) as part of their She Made Me Do It feature. Now, you know how I feel about a challenge. If you don't, here's a video that sums it up:   Basically, it's on like Donkey Kong. So yup, by later Sunday, I was done with one of the books of the CHALLENGE. Flannery picked a Nora Roberts book for me because whenever she would talk about Nora Roberts as one of her favorite romance authors, my reaction, never having read one of her books,
On Sunday, The Readventurer challenged us to read a book (or three) as part of their She Made Me Do It feature.
Flannery picked a Nora Roberts book for me because whenever she would talk about Nora Roberts as one of her favorite romance authors, my reaction, never having read one of her books, would be, "Her?"However, with The MacGregor Grooms, Flann promised a wily, matchmaking grandpa and a JFK Jr. There's exactly ONE thing I have in common with Taylor Swift and it's our fascination with the Kennedys -- although mine is more toward those who've actually graduated from high school.
The stories do follow a predictable pattern but are very enjoyable.
Romance ensues, just as Daniel knew it would.
Duncan Blade is a riverboat gambler.
When his grandfather suggests he hire Cat Farrell to sing on his boat, he begins to suspect Daniel is up to his matchmaking again.
But when he sees her, Duncan decides to go along with the plan.
I really love Cat's character.
The woman Daniel finds for Ian owns a bookstore.
Ian thinks she's a great choice and is all for their romance, he just has to convince her.
These are wonderful love stories!
Tons of romance and happily ever afters.
I love the MacGregor stories!
Another good addition to the MacGregor series.Daniel, our sweet but conniving patriarch is back to his shenanigans again, fixing his three grandsons- DC, Duncan and Ian with Layna, Cat and Naomi respectively.Three sweet stories of couples who came from completely different background and fall for each other, albeit after fighting some feelings.One v card, loads of family and babies, one grandpa you can't help but love- made up to a good anthology.All the reminiscing scenes between Anne and Daniel are heart warming.Safe 3/5
Makes you believe in true love after all.
I needed some fluff in the middle of Thursday Next and Jurisfiction (don't ask...you have to read the book to understand and it would take me YEARS to try and figure it out well enough to explain!)66.
The MacGregor Grooms by Nora RobertsQuick easy read about that wonderful family The MacGregor's and the crazy old patriarch Daniel who is back to his matchmaking ways.
Lovely to read (again...just bought it as it was re-released recently).
Just the fluff I needed.
Three stories, three grandson's.
Love and hope and trust.
Its lovely.
(2018) Esto es curioso esta Saga o Serie me la le칤 completa hace a침os realmente hace A칌OS!! y llevo d칤as editando los Shelves y descubro que esta serie esta sin fechas!!! e inclompleta!! porque esta estoy 100% segura que la lei completa aun la recuerdo, asi que tuve que buscar fechas aprox
Con que una persona (sea hombre o mujer) simepre est치 en su derecho de decirle a su pareja que no se siente c칩modx con el ritmo que est치n llevando en la relaci칩n y que le gustar칤a ir m치s despacio y la otra persona tiene que saber respetar los deseos de su pareja.
Nunca debes presionar a tu pareja o forzarla a hacer algo que no quiera, ya que es entonces cuando empiezan los rencores y los reproches.Dos personas deber칤an estar en una relaci칩n porque est치n agusto con la otra persona y porque se importan, se gustan y se preocupan el uno por el otro.
Pri캜e ve캖 previ코e li캜e jedna na drugu, ali nekako sam zavolela MekGregorove. Ko voli romantiku, ovo je sjajno. Meni i nije posebno "legla". Neka budu 3 *.
I am not going to review every Nora Roberts book that I have read in the past because she is quite prolific and it would get redundant and I honestly cannot remember all the plots.
I think I have read every one of her books to date because despite the cheesy nature, the ending is always happy and the read is easy.
Frankly, I like these books and will continue to read each one that comes out.
I am going to post this same review for each of her books that I have read in the past.
BORING!!!!Liked the male leads but the women were dull as dishwater. Not sure what the heck was wrong with the first two female leads but they were just plain stupid and unbelievable. They had absolutely no sense of humour and no true reason that I could discern for walking around with a stick up their ass.The last story with Ian was the best of the three. But even so, it did not make up for the other two. Wish it had been the first story before I lost my patience.
Apparently today is abandon-the-crappy-book-you-are-reading-day but hopefully given the genre, people will not blame me for giving up on this book. This was my first (and last) Nora Roberts read. It was incredibly boring. No character development. Lame dialogue. Lame descriptions of sex scenes. Lame problems. Just really lame. Would not recommend this author.
I debated between 2.5 and 3 stars --- I liked two of the stories and the last one really had potential, but in my opinion there is just NO WAY that you can present two characters, have them meet and get to know one another, and watch them believably fall in love in only ~100 pages!! At least, that's my take.
Me han gustado mucho las tres historias cortas que cuentan las de los primos.
Another success for Daniel MacGregor paring off his grandchildren and starting them off with their families.
eto, i unuci se ozenise :)
I absolutely enjoyed these stories and the ending was much smoother than some of the others which, in my opinion, is the way it should be.
The MacGregor Grooms is a sequel in Nora Robert's long running series of the family.
They don't feature much in other stories than their own , so the novellas are pretty much standalones.I really enjoyed reading this.
The long time it took me to finish is because I picked up other books alongside.
I picked up a Nora Roberts book after a long time and the delight quotient is still the same as ever.
Her heroines are decisive, career minded women.
All the factors which make her romances stand apart from the weepy heroine and bossy hero types out there - and believe me, there are many.
I think I've done all possible squirming a person could actually do when reading a good damn book.
I wanted a lengthier story like the other couples in the series but I've grown contented with the fact that though this was rather short, Nora Roberts still managed to make me fall in love.
And good gosh, these men are growing on trees and I want to look for the source to get a good glimpse of the other uncommitted Macgregor males!I am head over heels in love with DC (A Campbell, bless him!), Mac and Ian Macgregor!
I love this book.
She's running her family department store in D.C. a "blind" escort brings them together.Duncan Blade runs a luxury gambling boat on the Mississippi.
His intended grew up in the projects of South Chicago, but has an amazing voice she's using to improve her lot.
Booked on for 6 weeks as entertainment for his boat, they meet and fall.Ian MacGregor is a Boston lawyer in the family firm.
His intended runs a venerable Boston bookstore, but she's just coming into her own, so Ian feels the need to go slow.
Wrong.Helps to have read the MacGregor Brides.
For example a cousin of that person or...something.I don't know...It has a lot of cliches, especially in this one (not that I mind that all the time, cliches can be fine and thrilling and everything but sometimes they are just not).That's probably the reason why I didn't liked Ian's story much.
Now, I know that those feelings are not joke, that they're serious issues, that sadly a lot of people experienced.
To learn how to love yourself first.I do know this is a work of fiction and a romance but I feel like that specific subject was oversimplified.But oh well.It's a romance.
Another re-read for me this summer. This has 3 novellas featuring matchmaking grandfather Daniel MacGregor. It is typical of the series, he picks what turns out to be the perfect match for his grandchild. The writing is also typical for 1990's Nora Roberts.Daniel knows just how to manipulate his grandkids. The stories are fairly predictable, with some snappy dialogue. And, I like it anyway.
I love Nora Roberts' stories and Scottish male heroes. Well, this book delivered. It was three short novellas about three MacGregor grandsons finding love thanks to their meddling grandfather.Fun, sweet and full of family love!
Another Nora Roberts series I missed, The MacGregors. And again, what can I say? She writes with many twists and turns with great character development. Love her books as she usually ends all her books with a warm, fuzzy feeling. Looking forward to rest of series.
They are hot, kind hearted and every woman's dream. And they have a grandfather determined to marry them!
Predictable storyline, but fun read.
It was a good book too,i liked it too
KMK IZAZOV [12/12] - knjiga 캜iji naslov ili ime/prezime pisca po캜inje na slovo va코eg imena
Love, love, LOVE these stories! 游땏I am so enjoying this series!
It was a fun, fast read. The stories made me laugh. Not a book I'll be keeping for my collection but I'm not sorry I read it.
Parecem 3 livros em um s칩, uma vez que relatam 3 hist칩rias diferentes (neste caso os netos do MacGregor), como tal creio que deveria haver uma liga칞칚o entre os diferentes membros da fam칤lia.
