https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103606.A_Train_of_Powder
I tre soggiorni di Rebecca West (pseudonimo di Cicely Isabel Fairfield) in terra di Germania dopo la fine della seconda guerra mondiale: nel 1946 a Norimberga per seguire le fasi finali del celebre processo; nel 1949 a Berlino per capire come se la cava l’ex capitale divisa tra le quattro potenze vincitrici, a loro volta divise in due blocchi contrapposti; infine nel 1954 a seguire il progresso della possente macchina della ricostruzione tedesca.Dieci milioni di esuli a spasso in terra di Germania, pesanti costrizioni imposte dai Paesi vincitori, i conflitti fra gli stessi ‘Alleati’, una nazione distrutta oltre l’immaginabile… Dresda dopo il bombardamento alleato (Royal Air Force britannica e dalla United States Army Air Force) avvenuto tra il 13 e il 15 febbraio 1945: il 13 febbraio 1945 più di 800 aerei inglesi volarono su Dresda, scaricando circa 1.500 tonnellate di bombe esplosive e 1.200 tonnellate di bombe incendiarie.
Justly famous for the long (long, long) Nuremburg New Yorker articles, but my favourites were actually the shorter ones about the flashy gangster's murder and the would-be Russian spy, which is like a Smiley novel in miniature.(Reading old, lengthy New Yorker articles on the Paperwhite is sort of nightmarish -- there's no sense of pagination or even paragraphing whatsoever, it just goes on and on and on, and no way to check to see how much of the chapter's left, either.)
Em 1946 - contratada pelo Daily Telegraph - a escritora e jornalista política Rebecca West deslocou-se à Alemanha para assistir à fase final dos julgamentos de Nuremberga.
Dos vinte e um réus, doze foram condenados à morte por enforcamento; três foram absolvidos e os restantes condenados a prisão entre dez anos a perpétua.
A dada altura, Rebecca West refere Joseph Goebbels que, no dia a seguir à morte de Hitler, se suicida junto com a mulher depois de terem matado os filhos; seis crianças entre os treze e os cinco anos.
This was a Kindle Daily Deal on Amazon, and advertised as being solely about the Nurnberg trials, which is why I bought it. But the stories about other criminal trials were just as compelling -- in fact, I liked them better than the second and third parts on Nurnberg. Although Rebecca West tends to wander off on tangents, her writing is always evocative, and it's more like listening to a fascinating storyteller than reading a book and wondering when the writer will come to the point.
what i loved was the precision of description, as though she saw and understood all, and among the quotes i noted here's one i've returned to several times in the month since i've read it: "It was one of the events which do not become an experience." cutting!other favorite:"If a man stranded on a desert island should become a saint under the coconut palm but is never rescued, it should not be pretended that what happened to him is of no importance; for if that be conceded, then nothing is important, since humanity is stranded on this desert world and will certainly never be rescued."
Yet that strain eased within 50 pages.Rebecca West was a criminal voyeur: the stories here are accounts of various trials from Nuremberg to Greenville, South Carolina.
And, at first glance, one could say the same of West's account of a lynching trial in Greenville, South Carolina--an event she compares to an opera.
Two defense attorneys made outrageously prejudicial arguments, true; but the prosecution failed to prove its case beyond a reasonable doubt: there were no eye-witnesses, and none of the multiple confessions obtained shortly after the murder were sworn under penalty of perjury--all were recanted.There are other accounts of English trials--a headless and legless body dropped from an airplane and a British spy.
If you're looking for a book dealing solely with the subject of the post-World War II Nuremberg trials, this one won't satisfy your thirst, despite the product description.However, that doesn't mean you shouldn't give West's book your attention.
West describes the trial of a man accused of murder, who allegedly threw the pieces of the body into the sea.
Again, the details are poignant: she presents both sides of the story, describes the marsh and the family of the man who found the body, the wife of the accused.
Rebecca West has an eye for detail, an astute judgement of character, an ability to see the obvious when it is clouded by detail, propaganda or misreporting and a use of language that is up there with the best. Her book covers the end of the Nuremberg trials, a look at post war Germany, an unfortunate English spy and a racist trial in South Georgia. All interesting stories, all uniquely told.

Nowadays this would probably have been written by Jon Ronson, and would have been very funny but lacked the intellectual and emotional depth of West's writing - I wish there were more people writing like this now
On the one hand Rebecca West's A Train of Powder is infinitely valuable: it's hard hitting questions about Human Rights, its examination of the law, and its guiding voice in the chaos of the post-war make her study of the Nuremberg trials (among other cases) very noteworthy.
In what I imagine is West's attempt to explore the human dimension of each scenario through great detail, is instead a method that ends up drowning her readers in useless information and makes this book feel more like a law textbook than an essay of nonfiction journalism.
I wish this unnecessary detailing weren't the case because West is really on the ball when she talks about law, justice, philosophy, and history.
I bought this book for the trilogy of essays in it about the Nuremberg Trials and post-war Germany ("Greenhouse with Cyclamens" parts I, II and III).
The first of these essays in particular, written in 1946, is utterly engrossing and quite devastating.
It's a really remarkable piece of writing.The other essays in the book, while impressive in their own right, didn't live up to the immersiveness of the first one, but that may just be because the Nuremberg Trials were my main interest here.
In any case, "Greenhouse with Cyclamens I" was worth of the price of the book for me.
Three of the articles make up a series called  Greenhouse with Cyclamens, where she relates her thoughts during the closing sessions of the Nuremberg Trials and the rebuilding of Germany, including her observations of the personalities of top Nazi leaders like Goering and Hess as they sat in the dock, differences between German and American/British law, growing tensions between the Soviet Union and the other three Allies who shared control of Germany, leading up to the Soviets’ attempt to isolate Berlin from the West and the resulting Berlin Airlift, and the nascent West German government’s insistence on a free market economy despite pressure from the occupying Allies to adopt a more statist model.
I've been meaning to read more of Rebecca West for decades.
This was a book of essays, mainly written post WWII about her time in Germany and the Nuremburg trials, the chief essay, in three parts, called "Greenhouse with Cyclamens." While on the outskirts of Nuremburg for the Nazi trials she found a greenhouse managed by an old man with one leg and a 12-year old girl.
All they grew were cyclamens, enormous, and West was fascinated they had a thriving business when people couldn't even afford food and clothing.
Her affair was as broken up into parts as this one essay.

She's been called the greatest news reporter ever -- I see why. West saw every situation from the largest possible perspective, yet often broke them down to the most minute particles. At times it was too much for me -- either her Britishness, or my lack of historical knowledge, or maybe her tendency to write so expansively, but for the most part, especially her reporting on the Nuremberg trials, were absolutely fascinating.
With an amazing eye for detail and grasp of the big picture, Rebecca West gives us a front row seat to the Nuremberg trials and the players involved.. prosecutors, defendents, journalists, embassy personnel and more.
Where does reporting become literature? I'd say about right here.
