https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2178174.Blood_Toil_Tears_and_Sweat
This book deserves a good rating for the quality of the selection, and for the excellence of the oratory, regardless of the personal or other flaws of the orator.
I've had this book for some considerable time and have avoided it fearing it to be a dry read.
As it turns out, it is compiled by a reputable historian and reads like a decent biography illustrated with relevant documents.
What prevents this collection from having a higher rating is, however, that there are some key omissions which mean that a rosier picture is presented than should be.
There is an attempt to be warts and all but it would be fully rounded if it had something on the General Strike and something on the waves of independence in the 40s and 50s.
They include his most famous wartime speeches and his ignominious claim during the 1945 campaign that Labour would require some kind of ‘Gestapo’ to ensure that they would remain in power.
Clearly, the notes can’t be to detailed as they will form a book in itself but references to further reading would be helpful.The speeches also provide a biographical snapshot of Churchill’s political career and provide an excellent introduction to the man along with his strengths and flaws.
In fact reading the early speeches highlights Churchill’s flawed judgement on many domestic issues and confirms that he was a poor peace time minister and prime minister.
An interesting look at the first official speech of a very influential man.
Churchill’s career saw the end of colonial imperialism, the two greatest wars ever fought, and the beginnings of the new atomic age, and the man never wanted for the words with which to capture the time.
By sheer dint of the force of his will, Churchill mobilized and galvanized his countrymen to deeds of valor and heroism in an hour of desperate need, and while there was certainly much more to the man, his well-deserved legend as Britain’s greatest statesman will live on as long as the language which was his primary weapon.Sadly (or perhaps not), YouTube did not exist in the days of Cicero, so the world will never know if that oft-made comparison was warranted, but I will close this review with a link to an edited version of Churchill’s Dunkirk speech, after the fall of France to the Nazi blitz and the narrow escape of the British Expeditionary Force.
Whilst as a statesman Churchill was a voice of assurance and a truly heroic and decisive leader, in speeches he could quite unseeingly drag on and on and on... with figures, with anecdotes. This, when translated into words, could mean a somewhat uneasy reading - what was it that he really wanted to say? Are we there yet? No? One must surely read this book with a healthy supply of patience and reverence of the old man to appreciate what it is that he really wished to convey.
read 35 years ago . I wrote at the time that it was Churchill's wonderful wealth of words that made his books so good.
I have a turtleback edition, copyright 1941, published by G.P. Putnam's Sons, with no isbn
Churchill had an amazing use of words, but an even greater understanding of the human spirit. A great read!
Hard read, very dry. Compilation of his speeches from the late 30s to 1940. Churchill saw almost everything that Germany was up to. England and the world should have listened to him.
didn't finish. would have been better as a recording.
Found this to be a little soothing in the last days of the election. Things were going to shit all around him and Churchill was, at least publicly, hopeful and defiant.
4.5/5
