https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29736933-the-return-of-munchausen
Exactly the case - the poet Unding arrives at the Baron’s apartment in London and is treated to a number of revelations, including the Baron opening his prize book, a small gilt-edged octavo with leather corner pieces, to his usual abode between page sixty-eight and sixty-nine: “Unding looked: on the bent-back page between parted paragraphs were the fine black rules of an oblong box: but inside the box was only the blank stare of white space – the illustration had disappeared.”I'm quite certain you are familiar with how a character in a book can come to life – well there you have it, our author taking metaphor to new outrageous levels more than seventy years prior to Terry Gilliam’s film.
“…books, if only they are books, may be commensurate with, but never proportionate to reality!”Baron Munchausen is back and he continues to lie and fantasize but suddenly it turns out that everything he says is true:“Horses and voters, if you do not put blinkers on them, they will throw you into the nearest ditch.
I have always admired Teniers’s technique of allowing black to become white and white to grade into black: through gray.
Neutral tones in painting, neutrality in politics…”This priceless advice politicos all over the world successfully use to this day and will use in the future.“I mean to say that materialists succeed only insofar as they are… idealists of their materialism.
Baron Hieronymus Karl Friedrich, Freiherr von Münchhausen fought for the Russians in the Russo-Turkish War, 1735-39, and upon his return regaled his aristocratic friends with outrageous tales based on his military career.
A German writer, Rudolph Erich Raspe, turned this into a satirical work: Baron Munchausen's Narrative of his Marvellous Travels and Campaigns in Russia.
Raspe wisely remained anonymous till his demise.In  The Return of Munchausen, Sigizmund Krzhizhanovsky resurrects the Baron and lets him return to what is now Soviet Russia, circa 1927-28.On the very first page the Baron is being chased by a pair of muddy footprints:"Who shall I say is calling?""Tell the baron: the poet Unding."That would be the poet Ernst Unding.
This book is not meant for this time, this place.
it is a story about Baron von Munchausen, whom, like most Americans my age, I know not from his legendary adventures, which were a hallmark of European fabulist writing and which were required reading for young Europeans of a certain time.
Rather, I know Munchausen from that Terry Gilliam movie and the condition of Munchausen's syndrome by proxy, a perennial tabloid-TV obsession of the '90s American media-verse of my childhood.So I had to rely on the footnotes, not only because of that, but because the expected audience was the early 1920s Russian intelligentsia.
Sigizmund Krzhizhanovsky, the greatest Munchausen fan in Stalin's Union and a great bullshitter himself (although he had the decency to call his fictions) is well-quipped to bullshit on this matter.
Told mainly in the form of a lecture delivered to a rapt British audience, our good Baron, alive and well in the 20th century and pretty spry for being 180 years old, gives his impressions of the Soviet Union circa 1927.
The rest is untranslated, although my Russian is good enough to grok the titles: The Little Book of Souls, Tales for Wunderkinder, Side Branch, Countries That Weren't: Articles on Literature and Theater.
If you're not familiar, Munchausen was a real-life baron who fought off the Turks (with the help of the Russians) but became a sort of folk hero as time went on.
Like the time he and his horse were drowning and a swamp so Munchausen grabbed his own pigtail and pulled them out of said swamp.I like reading about the countries in which this book is set, and I'm well versed on Lenin and thought this would be a sort of fun, silly book but I ended up finding it tedious and dull.
A wild ride, equal parts whimsy and melancholy. It sort of reminded me of the various Don Quixote reimaginings we've seen over the years, but much more subtle
Whimsical, witty, ridiculous and wonderful, and a darkly thoughtful and comic satire on truth, spin, celebrity and the early Soviet state - what a great book to wrap up my 2017 year of reading.
Munchausen!
Prior to reading this book, I admit my only exposure to Baron Munchausen came from the Terry Gilliam film, which I really enjoyed.
On one hand, there are several tales in here that are fun if recounted to a friend in a conversation, but they are buried in clunky writing (translating) and context.
Perhaps, had I picked it up knowing I would be doing some historical digging and some very careful reading… knowing that some of the gags would require research to even understand… knowing that I must know the real person being made fun of to get the joke… I’m sure this would have been a different experience entirely.
The first book I read by Krzhizhanovsky was called the Letter Killers Club, itself a magnificent showcasing of Krzhizhanovsky's imagination and very thought provoking when it comes to the nature of stories and novels.
Finally, it had one of the nicest endings I've read in a book, and just as one doesn't fully realize what Andre Gide's The Immoralist is about until the very last words the reader at the very end also recognizes the genius of Krzhizhanovsky's work, which is itself a documentary about the creative process of any one human being and is like the Letter Killers Club in that respect.
“I saw that facts by and large had become phantasms, and phantasms facts, and the darkness around that laboratory bat was tinkling with thousands of little bells; around every shock of wing against string, around every word, every pen stroke, was chiming chuckling air.” 3.5 starsSo this is another instance where I’m guilty of judging a book by its cover. But how could I not be intrigued when the cover art, at a glance, reminded me a bit of Les femmes d’Alger (Version O)? I eagerly snatched this
(I was unfamiliar with Baron Munchausen’s Travels prior to reading this novella).
If you read underneath the descriptive imagery and the baron’s colorful escapades, you can pull out the satire on Bolsheviks and USSR.It’s a whimsical tapestry of phantasms regarding the Country About Which One Cannot Lie. It gets you thinking, what is fact and what is fiction?I may need to pick up a copy of Baron Munchausen’s Narrative of His Marvelous Travels and brush up on my early USSR Russian history…
I read this book purely to fit a challenge requirement.
I thought it would make a quick read being that the book is only 168 pages but I was wrong.
In high school when I had to read "Crime and Punishment" and Tolstoy I hated it because I never understood it and that fact hasn't changed over the years.
Like I said, this book fits a challenge requirement and now I finished it.
1 stars and I can only think of maybe 2-3 of my friends from high school who would possibly understand this book.
prety funny
Fun mix of zany brushes with ideas & critique.
Truly unique
So I was excited to dive into Krzhizhanovsky's The Return of Munchausen, which promised to revisit the Baron in ways both postmodern and political, and in only 117 short pages!
Despite the excitement and the brevity, this book took me forever to get through, perhaps because it has the most ludicrous footnotes of any novel I've ever read, and my academic side compelled me to read all of them.
Are you reading a translated 1920s Russian novel that uses the mythicized German adventurer as a critique of Soviet polity, and yet somehow have never heard of St Augustine, Methuselah, Isaac Newton, the French Revolution, the League of Nations, or Albert Einstein's Theory of Relativity?
A svelte, sterling, fun fun exploration of a free mind thinking why not.
I love his writing and have avidly read all of the recent nyrb translations of his works. Return of Munchausen reminded me a lot of Krudy's Adventures of Sindbad in that it charts the rollicking exploits of a ghostly protagonist. My attention definitely wandered at parts, as a lot of the proto-postmodernism in the prose did not particularly withstand the test of time for me. Still, a fun book.
Совсем не понравилось. Какие-то бесплодные игры ума. Осилил только завязку.
читал, но давно - надо освежить
I don't usually take to surrealism but there's some good shit in here.
Enjoyable read. Funny in parts, Krzhizhanovsky's visual writing style brings the Baron's adventures to life and easily transports you to a bygone era.
