https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2594251-de-zevensprong
Frans refused to proceed and the coach left him at Sevenways.At school the next day, he questioned the children whom he surmised were playing tricks on him.
This explains why Geert-Jan couldn't attend school with the other children and has been held captive by Count Gradus in the House of Stairs.
Can Geert-Jan aided by the "Conspiracy of Seven" uncover the secret treasure, if it truly exists, in a timely manner?Dutch writer Tonke Dragt has written an excellent children's book full of riddles, clues and puzzling events.
"The Song of Seven" by Tonke Dragt was an awesome adventure likely to entertain both children and adults.
Loved this book!
3.5 I realized I prefer Dragt's fantasy stories. This one had a great writing style, but the story itself didn't quite captivate me. It had some interesting points, but after the Letter for the King series, this was a bit too plain. I really liked some of the characters, though. A nice book, but I expected more.
Puur jeugdsentiment. Fantastisch boek, nog steeds!
Wat een leuk verhaal!
It’s there that the true mystery starts, as poor Frans has been placed there by the conspirators in order to save the count’s son, Geert-Jan, and help him search for a treasure that’s mentioned in a prophecy of one of Geert-Jan’s crazy ancestors.
And this is all because Geert-Jan’s evil uncle wants his hands on the treasure, and is keeping Geert-Jan away from the woman whom he wishes to be his legal guardian (a woman who is also part of the conspiracy).The suspense is up high in this book, and it’s most definitely an exciting and mysterious story.
This is why I started writing
I really enjoyed this book as a kid.
The author seems to delight in leaving Frans the Red in the lurch, and just when it seems he is about to make a breakthrough regarding the conspiracy, his fellow conspirators decide not to tell him, or something happens to ensure that the next key piece of information is left dangling, like a carrot on a stick, for Frans and the reader to chase.Once Frans makes it into the House of Stairs as Geert-Jan's tutor, however, the pace begins to pick up and we are treated to yet more oddball adult characters, as well as a setting that must be seen to be believed.
De rust begon te verdwijnen – er klonk gefluister, een kuchje, onderdrukt gegiechel, geschuifel van voeten, gekraak van banken, geritsel van papier.Frans van der Steg, die aan zijn tafel op het podium zat, keek verstoord op.
Maar vandaag is hij moe en hij heeft geen zin om een verhaal te vertellen.
Hij vertelt de klas dat hij niets te vertellen heeft, omdat hij een brief verwacht…In de brief staat dat Frans op gesprek mag komen bij iemand die Gr… Gr… heet.
Maar dat heeft Frans helemaal niet gedaan.
Hij wordt aangenomen als onderwijzer voor Geert-Jan. Die is volgens zijn oom te zwak om naar school te gaan.
The second of Dragt's books that I have read and one which, unusually, has an adult protagonist in the guide of Frans van der Steg, a storytelling teacher.
The characters are complex, the set elusive and wild (reminding me of Wynne Jones and Aiken in a way) and the plot itself - super-smart.When Frans van der Steg arrives at his new school, he falls on telling the children stories as a reward for their hard work.
I think what they mean is that it asks a lot of the reader to work and stay with it but if you do so, you open up a rare little treasure of a book.
This book was turned into a tv series when I was young.
I saw all the episodes, except for the last one.
So when I bumped into the original book, I figured after 30 years it was time to find out how it ended.
Turns out it's not a bad book, at least for children, but it doesn't age with the reader, the way some children's books do (like Harry Potter).
All the mystery and suspense I remember from my youth, turns out to be a bunch of weird characters doing weird things and so accidentally solving an ancient riddle.
Meh. Even 30 years ago I wouldn't have been very impressed by the ending.
One of my favorite books still. Every now and then I read it again. It's a clever, sligtly sinister, fun story where the good guys win.
The story starts off modestly, perhaps with the suggestion that our mild school teacher hero will have a mysterious adventure of some sort that will shake him up a bit.
He always ends his class school day with wild made up stories about his earlier life as an adventurer/spy/secret agent, and his tall tales hold his young charges in thrall.
But, one day he pretends that he is awaiting a secret terribly important letter.
The Song of Seven is special, in a way, because it deals in and of itself with story telling as well.
Some things just are, and The Song of Seven almost feels like a snapshot, capturing the potential for many more stories to come.
I was very happy to see that all the Dutch names were retained, rather than changed, even if they might take some getting used to for English readers.
The Song of Seven is the perfect book for adventurous young readers and their parents.For full review: http://universeinwords.blogspot.com/2...
This is an English translation of a well-known Dutch tale, one that was even made into a television show.Mr. Van der Steg is a teacher, who loves to tell adventurous tales to his pupils the last minutes of school—something the pupils enjoy as well.
But there's still a dust of possibility left behind, which allows dreams to fly.As a translation to introduce English speaking kids to tales from other cultures, this is a well-done book and will draw readers in.I received a complimentary copy through Netgalley and enjoyed the fun tale enough to want to leave my honest thoughts.
When school started at the beginning of the summer semester he found by the end of the day the children were too rowdy.
His solution to this was at the end of every day he started telling them of his experiences as a thief and knight and other wildly spun tales with Frans as the hero.
One day he finds himself in the middle of his own tale.
A tale he had only started by telling his students he was expecting a letter from an unsavory character.
They are convinced that Geert-Jan’s life is in danger–and once he finds the hidden treasure in the House of Stairs, his uncle will do away with him.
Guided by the prophecy in a sealed scroll and a children’s rhyme known as the Song of Seven, Frans must make head and tails of all the strange events surrounding him, becoming the hero of a story just as marvelous as the ones he tells his students.This book was an unpredictable adventure that reminded me of The Phantom Tollbooth crossed with The Legend of Sleepy Hollow crossed with A Series of Unfortunate Events.
Although I did not find it as compelling as Tonke Dragt’s other books, it was an amusing story with clever wordplay and a decidedly Dutch flavor to the people and places.
Thank you to NetGalley and Pushkin Children's Books for providing me with an e-copy to read and review. The Song of Seven by Tonke Dragt was a true joy to read. It is perhaps the most exciting fairytale mystery/adventure I have ever read.Yes, it is that good.So good that the only thing I felt compelled to do was sit back, relax, and read - and write down names here and there (there are a lot of names to remember!). I constantly had to know what would happen next.The story is compelling right fr
The Song of Seven by Tonke Dragt was a true joy to read.
It is perhaps the most exciting fairytale mystery/adventure I have ever read.Yes, it is that good.So good that the only thing I felt compelled to do was sit back, relax, and read - and write down names here and there (there are a lot of names to remember!).
It was funny at times but, my goodness, I felt bad for the man.Truly, The Song of Seven is an unexpectedly wonderful story of truly unimaginable proportions.
I love Dragt's books, but this one was just a little disappointing ...
Contrary to Dragt's abovementioned books, this one was new to me.
The Song of Seven reads like it was intended for a younger audience than the stories about Tiuri.
The bad guy really isn't that bad (more 'troubled'), the quest isn't that interesting or fascinating and the idea of writing the story around the old Dutch children's song 'The Seven Ways' (or: 'De Zevensprong') feels even more childish.
It is just not very well worked out, and that's a pity because Dragt has mastered the art of fantasy and imagination.
This book evoked strong feelings of nostalgia within me, since I remember my teacher reading the first two chapters of this book -in Dutch- to my class when I was ten.
Now, many years later, I can finally say that I have finished the story, even though it is in another language.
This story is not necessarily very action-packed or fast-paced, but yet it has a feeling of tension weaved through it that makes you want to continue reading.
This story will blur the border between everyday reality and a magical otherworldliness, but just ever so slightly.
I thought this book was delightful! I didn't realize until I finished it that it's a translation of a 1960s Dutch book. I think I enjoyed it so much because it has the charm of older fantasy novels such as Narnia, Alice in Wonderland, Phantom Toll Booth, etc. It's quirky, funny, ridiculous, and whimsical! There isn't much else I can say about it that wouldn't spoil the story. It's a wonderful read if you want something laid back and just plain enjoyable.I read this for free thanks to NetGalley.
Enchanting. I feel like the voice is an old old story I read as a child- a sort of story I’ve always know but almost (not quite) forgotten over the years. Highly recommend!I feel like I’ve already heard about the House of Stairs and wandered its halls, exploring it and hunting for treasure (as all true old houses inevitably conceal). - the rain on the panes and the roving black cat- the conspiracies and the secrets... Perfect.
A fun adventure tale originally published in 1966 and recently translated into English. Hardly the nail-biter described on the cover, I don't know if it would appeal to children today, but I enjoyed it. I would read more by this author and the translation was done very well (in my humble opinion!).
I read the British Pushkin edition translated into English of The Song of Seven after enjoying the same of Letter for the King and Secrets of the Wild Wood. The stories are simple and lyrical in the most elegant way. I am evangelizing Tonke Dragt to friends and their kids here in America, where I hope they will become available.
One of Tonke Dragt’s best by far. She really out did herself with the riddles and mystery. It keeps you on the edge of your seat while Frans the Red shuffled ever so closer to the truth of the prophecy and the truth wont disappoint. Defiantly worth reading.
3.5/5 I reckon.
This is an amazingly quirky fun story reminiscent to me of the Girl Who Circumnavigated Fairyland...I highly recommend for anyone who wants something different.
Another childhood favourite
Een van mijn favoriete kinderboeken.
