https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18739426-the-bands-of-mourning
Seriously though, her character really shines through in this book.
Before she just seemed a bit dull, and perhaps even ordinary, but this clearly isn’t the case.
She is the sort of person you simply want on your side in a conflict.So this book, for me, was all about her.
She’s inexperienced and a minor liability, though she is also brave and willing to adapt.
She doesn’t want to be left behind, and she is willing to become something more to insure that this doesn’t become the case.
She’s a great character.
I choose not to speak but relate my feelings via Gifs as words fail me currently:My overall view of this Read: Me while reading this book: Everytime Wax and Steris shared a Moment, I was like: I need to talk about this book with someone but you'll have to: And just in case you unsure if I like this Read. Just Know:
4.75 Investiture Filled StarsBuddy read with my friends at Buddies Books & Baubles the discussion is still ongoing but I had to know all the things.Spoiler Free Review Section:  There is always another secret  How many times have we read those very words throughout the Mistborn saga and been shown yet again that there IS definitely always another secret. Brandon Sanderson has proved that once again in Bands of Mourning. I know who this is about now and I am OMG excitedFirst  he surprised all
4.75 Investiture Filled StarsBuddy read with my friends at Buddies Books & Baubles the discussion is still ongoing but I had to know all the things.Spoiler Free Review Section:
Mistborn: Secret HistorySecond there is the actual book Bands of Mourning which if you are an allomancy/Feruchemy/Hemilurgy nerd like I can be there are new ways of combining metals/powers for cool effects.
The ways that BS explores this new concept hit me right out left field I didn’t expect the story to go that direction but man what a ride.Third after what Wax went through in Shadows of Self how do you come to terms with your god and the role he chose for you.
4.5⭐Alright, there's only so many ways a person can praise an author's work before one starts to sound like a broken record but you know what, I don’t care because Sanderson, once again, knocked it out of the park!Warda and I quickly jumped onto this book right after Shadows of Self, (right after I got my brain thoroughly obliterated by the ending) and here, we’re graced with yet another thrilling, layered and thought-provoking entry in the Mistborn series, filled with incredibly heartfelt momen
4.5⭐️Alright, there's only so many ways a person can praise an author's work before one starts to sound like a broken record but you know what, I don’t care because Sanderson, once again, knocked it out of the park!Warda and I quickly jumped onto this book right after Shadows of Self, (right after I got my brain thoroughly obliterated by the ending) and here, we’re graced with yet another thrilling, layered and thought-provoking entry in the Mistborn series, filled with incredibly heartfelt moments between the characters.
The characters go through some wonderful developments, and I'm fascinated by this mix of Fantasy elements with a Western setting.I feel like Bands of Mourning works particularly well because by this point we are already very well acquainted with the magic systems, and we've warmed up to our new cast of characters.
So reading this, you're experiencing all the wonder & excitement of a brand new adventure while feeling cozy & comfortable beneath a heavy blanket of nostalgia.
But I'm forever grateful for its existence.Please enjoy this actual footage of me while I wait:
5 MIND BLOWN STARS ★★★★★  “He’s the man who takes the bullet so nobody else has to.”  HOW FUCKING DARE THIS BOOK BE SO BLOODY AMAZING! Seriously.. That ending holy fucking shit. This book has left me breathless... like wow! So different to anything I've read by Sanderson but it was incredible and is my favourite of all six Mistborn books! This book felt different from the first page, it was so fucking exciting and I knew straight away it was building up to a massive ending.. I'm gobsmacked. This
So different to anything I've read by Sanderson but it was incredible and is my favourite of all six Mistborn books!
I got Biosock vibes.The character growth for everyone was amazing and the bromance between Wax & Wayne is one of my favourites.
Wax is just perfect.Wayne's character was less like able for me in this book for some reason.
He did however have some badass moments.I've always loved steris so I was happy for her to get more page space& shine like the gem she is her personality is amazing.
[5 Stars] I absolutely loved this. It may be one of my favorite Sanderson novels yet. I literally do not have the words to express just how much I adored this book. I'm in desperate need of the last book in this series now, but hey I think Stormlight #3 might be enough to tide me over until then!
This is my favourite in the Alloy era, lots of twists and turns, amazing locations and lots of lovable new characters that I can't wait to read more about them in the final book.
I still love the original characters, Wax,Wayne, Marasi, Steris and MeLaan, non of them annoyed me which is a rarity in a series.
I sure love the way things ended for her.(view spoiler)[She fell in love with Wax and he returned her feelings, even made their wedding romantic, its no longer marriage about political allies and connection but love.
Oh wow! There are lots of characters in this book. 'The Bands of Mourning' is the best book in second trilogy of 'Mistborn'.I really like Steris in this book.My goodness! I don't know what to say. I love this book. Alhamdulillah.
Once again. Okay 😏
1000......that is the number of times I whispered 'HOLY SHIT!' to myself while listening to this. PS: Michael Kramer rules.
I’m not sure I can write a review of this book that does it any kind of justice.
I try to write reviews that actually contain some kind of cohesive thoughts about the book, but I’m afraid all I can do is gush right now.
I just really love Sanderson, okay?!There was so much character development here, especially from Steris.
I know there are those who think that Sanderson fails at crafting believable, sympathetic characters.
I’ve read some reviews that go so far as to say that his characters tend to be cardboard.
As usual, the prologue was about Wax's past, and I loved reading about that (especially now that his sister was in it (view spoiler)[who turned out to be a major bitch (hide spoiler)]).
I loved that Sanderson expanded the world in this book so much.
I loved chemistry between Wax and Wayne, and I think that their conversations were one of my favorite parts of the book (I also loved the friendship between Marasi and Wayne).
One more thing I want to mention is the relationship between Wax and Steris.
(view spoiler)[since i mention shipping, another surprise were Wayne and MeLaan.
Plot/world-building:This I will say went slightly over my head, especially as the books progressed.
It's the main reason why I couldn't give these books 5 stars and it's more of a fault on my own rather than Sanderson.
There's always more to the story than what meets the eye and you follow the characters on the journey, especially Wax, as they're trying to solve it themselves.
I mean, once you start reading Sanderson's books, you just give up on even trying to guess what the plot twits are, because he's leagues ahead.
Sanderson described him best when he said that Wayne has enough eccentricity for three characters.

For readers like myself, that decision to publish them so close together was much appreciated, since I don’t think I could have waited until the end of the year to find out what happens, especially after that shocking ending in Shadows of Self.Things come to a head in The Bands of Mourning, continuing the adventures of Waxillium and his companions.
You might be able to get away with reading this on its own, but I do highly recommend picking up Shadows of Self first, or better yet, start Wax’s story from the beginning with The Alloy of Law (which is still my favorite of the new Wax and Wayne Mistborn novels).Another thing I loved about this book?
In this world,we have Waxillium “Wax” Ladrian (Lord of the Ladrian House and is a lawman), Wayne (who is just pure awesome and is Wax’s BFF) and Marasi (she’s okay.)This is the third book in the Wax and Wayne’s Adventure in Scadrial (no,this is not the official title) and sooo many things have happened that I can’t talk about unless you’ve already read the books.I love this series.I know that a lot of people are disappointed that it’s different than the first trilogy but I think it’s good that it was written that way.
One of the questions I've always had in my mind when Sanderson said that the Mistborn series will span multiple eras was how he will incorporate the magic system into technological advances - Bands of Mourning definitely provided some insight here.
Epicness and cool magic system aside, a book is nothing without its characters.
Marasi has her moments, which was an improvement from the last book, but with such a stellar cast of characters, she was kind of left in the shadows most of the times.The new star of this series to me was Steris-who has truly come into her own.
I know a lot of Sanderson fans are waiting for this trilogy to be finished before they would even start.
I smugly jumped in , deep in my early gratification, thoroughly enjoying the books.
Because there is soooo long to go for the next one!This was brilliant and also making me very excited about the third era of trilogies that there will eventually be.
I am of course not going to be including spoilers but I will say that I felt very differently about Steris by the end of the book and the technology and other new elements were fantastic.Very recommended.
Yeah, I'm looking at you, Harmony.) The new world was one I could respect and like, but I never got to the point where I really loved it.And then this book came around, and after what I thought was a tiny rough beginning, I was delighted to see just how much I loved Wayne's sequence.
We got the huge magical sequence that is reminiscent more of the first trilogy than the more modest (and down-to-earth) effects of books 4 and 5.
We've got some big things coming, and I that leads me to make one last comment.I've officially moved from a respect and liking for the second series to a deep and profound love.
Y se nos muestra constantemente que todo el mundo aún recuerda y teme al lord Legislador (y no sin razón, ya que la trama de todo del libro va de buscar un arma que puede conferir su poder)Pero en Sombras de Identidad este Cosmere parecía más fanservice.
Sin embargo, aquí tiene mucho más sentido y se nos ve que el legado de estos personajes (Vin, Kelsier, Sazed, Brisa, el lord Legislador) está afectando de forma directa al mundo y la vida de Wax, Wayne y Marasi.
I loved the mix of action and intrigue and was blown away by some of the shock developments as the story progressed.
MeLaan was hilarious in almost every scene she appeared in and is easily my all time favourite Kandra.
Steris was fantastic and has really developed as a character since we first met her back in the Alloy of Law. She proved the perfect mix of endearing and hilarious and has fast become one of my favourite Sanderson characters of any of his series!
"I need metal," he [Wax] explained at Marasi's inquisitive look.He stepped up to his room, then hesitated as a hand stuck out of the next room, holding a small vial."Steris?" he said, walking to her.
But something is wrong.""Other than people trying to kill us?" Marasi asked."No," Steris said, "in my experience, that's quite normal.Always check to see what happened to the person you are replacing:"But when Lord Waxillium is around, things do tend to pop up.""Things?" Drewton said.
I mean seriously, genius is an understatement at this point.In Bands of Mourning, he showed the potential future for Mistborn franchise and believe me, it will be huge and after reading this one, I'm full with confidence all of them will maintain their great quality.
The ending (view spoiler)[where Wax finally married Steris out of love, not obligation (hide spoiler)] is just beautiful and I admit, I smiled (with a little bit of glassy eyes) out of pure happiness.Well there's my review on The Bands of Mourning.
I'm so happy I loved this! I was worried after calamity that I wouldn't like this one as much, but I thought it was fantastic. These character make me crack up so much, and I can't wait to see how their story will "end."
I'm not a fan of how it echoed the end of Well of Ascension - female lead takes up godly power, but gives it up to save the life of a man who then becomes more powerful than her - but since Wax gave up the Bands in turn, I can live with it.Wayne and MeLaan getting together was something I'd kind of seen coming, though I didn't expect it as soon as it happened.
3.5 There's always another secret.  Esa frase resumiría más o menos este libro. La primera mitad de The Bands of Mourning, aunque me duela decirlo, me aburrió. Tiene partes que me resultaron bastante pesadas. También me parece que hubo demasiada acción. Sé que otros van a encontrar eso como un punto a favor, pero yo prefiero que un libro tenga una base calma que me permita entender mejor a los personajes en ese momento. Con tanta lucha eso no sucedió y me costó entrar en sintonía con los protago
Esa frase resumiría más o menos este libro.
Sé que otros van a encontrar eso como un punto a favor, pero yo prefiero que un libro tenga una base calma que me permita entender mejor a los personajes en ese momento.
La segunda mitad no me dio respiro: las relaciones entre Wax, Wayne, Steris, Marasi y MeLaan se profundizan, la acción tiene lugar pero de una manera desarrollada y no intempestiva y...
Además, no esperaba que Sanderson introdujera otros personajes.
Estoy ansioso por saber mucho más sobre ellos en el próximo y (lamentablemente) último libro de la Segunda Era de Mistborn.
Tampoco esperaba que el autor complicara más los sistemas de magia.
A Full Five Stars: ✰✰✰✰✰  Simply put, I love this book. It isn't perfect (I know), but I could care less, because I just honestly love it. Patiently waiting for book four because it feels like an eternity ='[.
I loved the Mistborn books, and I SUPER LOVE the Stormlight Archive books (still my favorite thing Sanderson has written, and I've now read nearly all of his massive and steadily growing output), but these Mistborn Alloy Era/Wax and Wayne books have been such a treat from beginning to end.
If you've read one or both of the first two books, you're not going to want to be spoiled, and if you haven't, you won't understand what I'm talking about anyway.What I do want to talk about is the characters.
It's really hard to talk about this book without comparing it to Shadows of Self, which only came out a few months back, which is the biggest problem with The Bands of Mourning.
The Bands of Mourning had a plot twist I figured out almost immediately, the plot wasn't quite so deep or interesting, and Sanderson substituted a lot of setup for later books for plot and character development which, while rather interesting, just doesn't stand up to the previous book in terms of story and character.
