https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169936.Paideia
This is an impressive work by a profoundly learned philologist who received his classical training -- where else?
-- in Germany.
It is quite readable, and offers a wealth of insight into the educative purposes that classical Greek literature held for the Greeks themselves.
It is a deeply enjoyable read that will greatly expand your appreciation for ancient Greek civilization -- much more so, in fact, than any number of readily available handbooks that provide cursory summaries of what the Greeks accomplished.
From the Aristocratic ideals of Homer, to the noble peasant ideals of Hesiod's 'Works and Days', from the blood nobility of Pindar to the Intellectual nobility of Plato, Jaeger's dense survey of the first few hundred years of Greek Literature certainly seems exhaustive—as this is my first attempt at so large and broad a work on the topic of Ancient Greek thought, I cannot say whether any other work is comparable to it, but if one does exist, it must be mighty good...Jaeger at no point expresses an outright distaste for any one poet, though you get the feeling of where his preferences lie.
a love which runs deep.What was most interesting for me was his passages on Heraclitus, Aeschylus, and Solon, who all have an acute concern for Justice and the individual in society—that is, more concretely, the divinity of law in human affairs.
An impassioned, authoritative, and in-depth account of how the character-shaping ideas of education and culture developed in ancient Greece, and how the civilization's first educators were its poets.I forget how I first got to hear about this book.
.This short extract gives a fair sense, I think, of the caliber of observation and thought that the author maintains throughout the 510 pages of this volume (which comprises the first 2 books of his series: Archaic Greece and The Mind of Athens).The Greeks came to see that this process of education was a matter of shaping the soul, of giving it a desirable form in a manner analogous to the way that a sculptor shapes marble or bronze.
I can't recommend it enough. I couldn't swallow the other parts, but the first is more than enough for me for it makes an unforgettable view on the pre-platonic Greeks, and their relation to western culture as a whole. Now I am always left wondering why nobody talks about Solon, or why what people call "presocratic philosophers" seems to leave out so much of the greek spirit, and thus miss the point.
Muy altos los ideales de la educación que guian como modelo a las demás culturas subsiguientes.Tomados de la agrucultura los principios de la educación se aplican a los seres humanos,cultivarse es posible.Desde Sócrates a Platón la revision de los perfiles esperados en los hombres son bien explicados por Jaeger.
Aqui solo esta referenciado el primer volumen. son tres. Magnifica y preciosa historia de la Grecia clásica y sus instituciones educativas. Las preguntas pedagógicas por supuesto siguen siendo validas en un mundo donde la formación en muchos aspectos se devalua por minutos.
