https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106076.Batman
The sole reason I compare them is becauase I was also quite lukewarm towards Knightfall but I would pick the omnibus series over either of Loeb's work any day.I don't want to get into details about Dark Victory.
The only two women who are at least trying to break the mold were gangster Sofia Falcone and possible sociopath Gilda Dent who have interesting characterizations from the start but were sadly overlooked and underdeveloped midway through both stories.I don't even want to acknowledge the wasteful space female District Attorney Porter took up for Dark Victory.
FINAL RATING: 4.5 STARS Dark Victory lived up to my expectations. I loved The Long Halloween, but I actually liked this a bit more. While I think this is an amazing follow up from The Long Halloween, some of my questions from the first one still remained unanswered, while some were finally put to a close. The conflict. The deceit. The twists. The turns. The action. I loved all of them.Full review to follow.
Good.Dark Victory is the superb sequel to the excellent The Long Halloween.
You can see, as the story progresses, the "normal" criminal element of Gotham being phased out by the "freaks".
There is so much to love here for any Batman fan.
This Batman is brooding and dark.
We rarely see Bruce Wayne, and then only for his interactions with Selina Kyle, because this is a Batman story.
I won't spoil any of the excellent plot so all I can say is- IMHO this, along with Long Halloween, is one of the finest Batman stories around.
What a Batman book!!! Maybe its the mood I'm in today but I loved it all! The story was outstanding. The art I, surprisingly, loved. Just great!
That is a pretty far off description as Dick Grayson doesn't appear until the second half of the book, and only helps Batman a little during the end.
This story is actually a sequel to Batman: The Long Halloween, and continues the story of the Holiday killer and Falcone mafia family, as well as Harvey Dent and his rough new life as Two Face.
The 4 star rating is because the plot was strikingly similar to the one in Long Halloween, but there were differences to make them two completely different stories.
However, do yourself a favor and read the amazing Batman: The Long Halloween.
I've read Jeph Loeb and Tim Sale's Batman books in the order they've written them with Haunted Knight coming first followed by The Long Hallowe'en and finally coming to Dark Victory.
The storyline is practically identical with the holiday killer (this time not the weird Falcone guy but he's in this story too) being renamed the hangman killer and the villains all escaping and Batman encountering them laboriously one by one.
Give this a miss, it's a dull, dull story and for a character as interesting as Batman that's criminal.
Dark Victory follows this up by continuing the stories of Harvey, the Falcone crime family, and the Bat himself in the aftermath of Harvey’s imprisonment.The book follows the exact same format as its predecessor, and somewhat surprisingly uses the exact same theme to tie the episodes together.
Dark Victory is most famous for telling how Batman & Robin got together, but it doesn’t beat this story into the ground.
I am one of those readers who finds Robin mostly annoying, but I thought that his character fit nicely into this story and actually added to my enjoyment of the tale.The story is interesting, and like The Long Halloween features the full panoply of Batman rogues.
The real focus is on the puzzle behind the Hangman murders which their author hides pretty well until, somehow, it's brought into the light in the very last chapter.
The Falcone crime family assault Arkham Asylum and free many of the inmates in their goal to get at Harvey.
Batman recaptures some of the inmates, but Harvey disappears.
Each victim is hanged and carries a note with a children's game, the Hangman, with cryptic messages written in blood.(view spoiler)[After much running around, while a cop turns up dead each month, Harvey gives himself up.
Harvey Dent/Two-Face is suspected in the crimes.Batman tumbles with all of his rogues gallery while investigating the murders.The killer is (disappointingly) revealed to be a character you never suspected.The problem with DARK VICTORY is that its far too dependent on The Long Halloween.
No one actually even discovers the killer's identity--it's just revealed near the end of the book.One high point in the story is the introduction of Robin, and the developing relationship between Dick and Bruce.
The Long Halloween was a decent story, but DARK VICTORY tries to duplicate its success without adding anything new to the mix.
Characters such Harvey Dent, Catwoman, the Joker, the Falcone family members and plenty more make more appearances in Dark Victory, only to make Batman and Gordon’s life a lot harder.The story isn’t bad, alas, but it’s also something we’ve seen before.
It would’ve been a lot more pleasant to have seen a different kind of plot line to close out the story of a lot of important characters that Frank Miller introduced in Batman: Year One. In Dark Victory, after a breakout in Arkham Asylum, home to the most insane killers, Harvey Dent along with other key characters are freed and Gotham citizens worst nightmare just became reality.
Batman: Dark Victory: An excellent follow-up to Long HalloweenOriginally posted at Fantasy Literature Batman: Dark Victory (2000) takes place immediately after  Batman: The Long Halloween  (1997). In the aftermath of the Holiday Killer, Gotham’s Falcone and Maroni crime families are in chaos.  Dark Victory  is steeped in the same dark crime noir atmosphere as  Long Halloween , so if you liked the first title you will like this one too. It’s all about mysterious killings, Mafia wars, the rise of
The balance has shifted in their favor, but the Mafia will not cede control of the city so easily.Batman and Jim Gordon are still shaken by the transformation of DA Harvey Dent into the mercurial villain Two Face, and mourn the fact that they could not prevent it.
A new DA named Janice Porter comes in to replace Harvey Dent, and her first initiative is to reopen the case of Alberto Falcone, claiming he is not responsible for all the Holiday murders.Into this brave new world a new killer emerges: The Hangman.
Honestly, it may have seen that Dark Victory actually appeals to me more than Long Halloween.Jeph Loeb sure does understand Batman, doesn't he?
I think it helps a lot, too, that the plot tends to center around - at least on Batman's end - him admitting that he made a pretty huge mistake.The murder mystery this time revolves around the serial killings of the "Hang Man".
It's a combination of The Godfather (crime family drama) with Batman, all the classic villains, detective work and the introduction of Robin.
Batman is his classic self with awesome detective skills, a larger than life presence, shadow and stealth, and a certain broken humanity.
Some favorite parts include a scene similar to the horse head in the bed from the Godfather.
I liked the fact that Two faces speech bubbles are written with a jagged bold sloppy print which makes his voice sound harsh and gravelly.
Well written story, liked the style and lettering and highly recommend to any Batman fan.
Longer review possibly coming later.CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: A minus; STORY/PLOTTING/PANELS: A minus; BATMAN/MYTHOLOGY: A minus; ARTISTIC PRESENTATION: A minus to A; ACTION SCENES: B plus to A minus; WHEN READ: mid November 2013; OVERALL GRADE: B minus to B.
Victoria oscura es la inmediata continuación del tomo "El largo Halloween" en éste, Batman y el detective Gordon intentan dar caza al asesino en serie "Festivo", que al igual que Calendarman, aprovecha para matar en fechas señaladas.
¿Tiene "Dos caras" algo que ver con los asesinatos?En este tomo recopilatorio los personajes me han encantado, al igual que en el tomo anterior, aparece además de Batman y Gordon, los "engendros" o villanos, y he de destacar en especial la nueva aparición de "El pingüino", el cual me gustaría que hubiera tenido un papel un poco más extenso y especial en la tama, pero que me ha hecho especial ilusión que apareciera (por la serie Gotham cof cof).
Batman: Dark Victory continues the story of The Long Halloween, it concludes (view spoiler)[Harvey Dent's transformation into Two-Face, it also concludes Bruce Wayne's ill-fated relationship with Selina Kyle, then it introduces Dick Grayson as the first Robin (hide spoiler)].
The plot and the murder mystery is more neatly and more skillfully written than The Long Halloween ((view spoiler)[ too many Holiday Killers in one book!
It literally is one of the best American comics I've ever read.(Link: http://metro.co.uk/2016/03/23/batman-...)Though I must admit as much as I like this volume, I still can see how the story borrowed so heavily from the Hollywood crime-noir e.g. Godfather...*coughs* I mean *coughs* the horse head scene and all those crime families thingy.Book Review: Batman: The Long Halloween (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...)["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Two-face is back, holding court in the sewers because where else is better, all your fave villains are in this, although could have done with a bit more freeze he's awesome.
We get to see lil grayson who is my fave robin although we could have done with a bit more of his story.
Dark victory is really similar to the long halloween everything takes place on holidays this time with a game of hangman however unlike the first book the reveal isn't as shocking it doesn't pack the same punch.
It is still a good read though and if you liked long halloween then you'll like this one too.
This is a sequel to Loeb and Sale's classic The Long Halloween, and I had never read this one.
I think it is beautiful artwork by Sale, and the story is lonnnnng and mostly compelling, though there are no real surprises along the way.
It is curious why it garnered such high ratings, but maybe it has something to do with the initial expectations of the book when it came out, to such fanfare… I liked it, it's kinda classic Gotham mob Gordon Batman Two Face stuff, far better than the average fare you see, though still nothing really all that special to add to the whole long history of Batman...
The Long Halloween is a great book, but it did leave some loose threads hanging. It was probably inevitable that a sequel could come along, so here we have Dark Victory. The writing is pretty solid, but it's a little derivative of Long Halloween at times. The stories mirror each other too much for me. The best part is the introduction of Robin, done so many times over, but handled really well here. It is a good read, but it could have been better.
a weird retreading of the exact same ground as 'the long halloween' (to which this is a sequel).
literally nothing of note happens in the first 8 issues (someone is murdered on a holiday, batman and gordon are stumped, repeat), but issues 9-13 are pretty neat, including the introduction of robin!
although wholly unconnected to the rest of the arc, the bits with robin are very sweet.
if you're going to read this one, don't bother lugging through the first 8 issues of garbage - skip right ahead to 9 (i can't imagine you'd really miss anything, especially if you've read the long halloween)
Even if it were a crime novel featuring a wealthy detective and his interaction with criminals, mobsters, and the local police force, it would still be thoroughly enjoyable to read.
(The fact that said detective is Batman is just icing on the cake.) As in Long Halloween, there is a string of murders taking place on significant days during one year.
The difference is that the victims are members of the police force with ties to former DA Harvey Dent: each one is found hanged by the neck, with a different game of Hangman attached to their body.
The follow up to Loeb and Sale's previous hit story, The Long Halloween, Dark Victory picks up one year after the events of the earlier story.
If you liked The Long Halloween's focus on a variety of characters and Gotham itself, this is a perfect follow up for you.
The same emphasis on a variety of characters struggling against fate, destiny, responsibility and all the rest elevate this far above a simple comic book story.
Batman is presented as realistically as possible and the emphasis is much more on his place in Gotham City and how a major, large, corrupt city functions.
Estuvo muy bueno, aunque se me hizo bastante largo en un principio. Después engancha y me gustó el final y al resolución. Además, aparece Dick Grayson, y no había leído hasta ahora ningún cómic de Batman con él. Bastante recomendable si te gusta el super héroe y los policiales (y si te gustó El Largo Halloween).
Grandísimo cómic. Batman nos recuerda su verdadero yo y nos sumerge en una historia profunda y oscura en las entrañas de una lucha por la amistad, y la justicia.
The follow-up to Batman: The Long Halloween pales in comparison to its forerunner. It started to feel rushed and then muddled towards the finale. Also, the nods towards Puzo's / Coppola's The Godfather are at times laid on a little thick. However, despite that criticism it was still a reasonably good Batman book. The scenes with Commissioner Gordon (who has the largest supporting role), the introduction Dick Grayson / 'Robin,' and the wisdom of Alfred were definite assets to this collection.
I like the dialog overall, although as some reviewers have pointed out it does seem to borrow heavily from mafia film stereotypes for the Italian characters (and story for the first book a la Godfather), which is a little tiresome, but that's kind of how stereotypes work.
Not sure how I feel about this...the mystery kept me reading to find out, but the story being centered on a holiday serial killer just felt exactly like the first book.
(view spoiler)[If Hang Man is Sofia Falcone, which Loeb purports her to be, then she is seeking revenge upon Dent for killing her family members and mafia figures in the first book.
Batman: Dark Victory, the direct sequel to Batman: The Long Halloween, is not nearly as good as its predecessor.The problem is that it tries to do too much.
The second similar serial killer story, the Dick Grayson/Robin story, the Batman/Catwoman story, and the freak villains finally uniting all could have worked, separately.
The storyline of Dark Victory was convoluted, parts of it were rushed, poorly explained, or left unresolved.
For example, the Batman and Robin origin is too rushed to be believable, Two-Face bringing together the freak villains was glossed over so quickly it seemed like an afterthought, and the Batman and Catwoman subplot remained completely unresolved at that end.
Batman Dark Victory has way so many things going on that Batman has to become an overly talkative narrator. It revolves around a convoluted story of police murders. These serial killings are uninspired with murder clues I didn't even bother to look at again (and I'm not even comparing this to The Long Halloween). The Robin origin story is forced and Dick is a bit of a deus ex machina simply because the story is nearing its conclusion.I'm okay with Dark Victory having a similar story with The Long Halloween, but the former is just terrible.
This was my 2nd reading of 'Dark Victory'. An early story in the Batman world, and a very good one. Follows the 'Long Halloween' storyline. Someone is targeting cops/gangsters and killing them. Batman has to work hard to figure out who, all while the whole villains gallery has been broken out of Arkham. Great stuff, also the first appearance of Dick Grayson.
The story is set right after the events of The Long Halloween. Which I loved. Robin is introduced here and was smoothly done. Two-face is a perfect antagonist as always.As usual the suspense was well maintained till the end. The twist was worth the wait. The relationship between Bruce and Alfred is beyond mothership.
