https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12840.Second_Ring_of_Power

as a kid, this series of books fell into my hands and i avidly devoured them all, each one taking me more into the magical world of Don Juan and Sorcery..The first of the series that deals with the female sorcerors of the lineage, and details explicitly some of their rituals and powers, all tied up in a series of inner and outer world adventures that transports my imagination to the frightening and magical rural world of mexico.
reading it now, it still has the power to make the hairs on the back of my neck stand up on end, and make some part of me into that teenager dreaming of magic...
Drawing the threads closer from all the previous books and stepping up into his role as the Nagual, Carlos's outdone himself. I couldn't read this book awhile back, and then the other day I was able to pick it up and start blasting through. Amazing. The rhythm of questioning is more obvious to me now and the pace of questioning skeptic/apprentice/intuitive sorcerer is even clearer. Great read.
I continue to wonder if Castaneda's books are fact or fiction.
started reading again, soledads a bitch yo
I read this book within two days because i couldn't put it down!
In order to understand it, it's a must to read the last previous books or else you will be lost!
It gets somewhat complicated, but if you've read the previous books you can comprehend it pretty well, this book also deserves at least two reads because you'll be able to find different answers all the time.
Once you begin comprehending you will finally be addicted to the writings of Carlos, his descriptions are so thorough.
The beginning of Carlos's first battle with Sorcery where he finds in-depth powers he never thought he can achieve.
His first book, The Teachings of Don Juan, described his experiences with hallucinogenic power plants and introduced a new shaman to millions of readers.Over the next decade he produced three more reports, focusing on the nature of power and changes in his own world view.
To be clear, the "first ring" was Castaneda's specialty when he was first recruited by the Yaqui sorcerer Don Juan in 1960: attention to the body, the realm of reason, that part of a person engaged early in life.
Like the other books, The Second Ring of Power eloquently describes the path open to human beings who pioneer in the uncharted world of consciousness.
This is book 5 in a series.
Had I been given the first in the series, my opinion may have been different.
Carlos, (now deceased) should have been courteous enough to label his books instead of call his 5th book "The Second Ring of Power." I could have adapted to reading the second in a series or have gone to a used book store and bought book one, but I'm not going back FOUR books to read this one.
Also, his character's narration seemed a little silly for me.
Then, when he finally settles down a little bit (page 40?), while she is still half dressed, he wants to talk about how nice the stone tiles are in her bedroom.
I am going to give the same review to all the Carlos Castaneda books I read in that series, simply because they are all outstanding.
I was lucky to come across Castaneda very early on my magickal path.
My spells and rituals have always relied on the power of intent, and I have found no better education on how to focus your intent than in this series of books.
And having been a Wiccan Faery Witch now for 13 years I know much of what is real to us is fiction to those not walking a magickal path.
SUCKS!
Ох, моля ви се...
We learn more about the night Carlos, Pablito, Benigno and Nestor all jumped into the abyss from the top of the mountain, the effects it had on them and their journey into the deeper world sorcery.With an introduction on how each of the sisters, Dona Soledad and Genaros met Don Juan and Genaro, the way they were enticed into the world of sorcery, it is easier to picture them, making them more involved, whereas before, they were just names.
June 2011Another box of books has been reopened for cleaning, sorting, and reevaluation and lo and behold, many of the collected works of Carlos Castaneda are part of the contents.Many years have gone but I remember this author and his works vividly.
There's a new series of works by authors/students in the same genre.
These are a continuation of the anthropological journey that Castaneda undertook to learn of his heritage and a way of life that existed if only in a shadow of the original form.This generic commentary is going to be applied to all the writings of CC as a review until a rereading decision is made.
here's why.A well balanced Castaneda book has the following elements/styles1) Dialog and teachings about the Sorcerer's belief system (questioning also to refine understadning)2) Journeys / vision quests Travel to places for the purposes of exercising some of the teachings, preparation for the same3) Magic - Surreal expierences from other realities that are percieved through discipline or use of Power plants (although that seems to end in book two) often thrilling adventures!4) Caring (at times geuine warm relationship) between the Sorcerer and the apprentice (Castaneda)Reasons this book doesn't cut it in the series1.
Castaneda was a graduate student studying Anthropology and was doing his thesis on Mexican Shaman and their use of regional plants and herbs to induce psychotropic effects in an attempt to cure people of various illnesses. Castaneda starts off with a scientist view, as a skeptic and later is blown away by what happens to him, which then becomes his life long pursuits. If you plan on reading these books, start with the Yaqui Way of Life, which is the first book and be prepared to be engrossed in Don Juan's teachings.
All books of Carlos Castaneda are very important to me. He (and his Don Juan), Vadim Zeland - writer from Russia, quantum physicist and Alexey Bachev - an unusual psychologist from Bulgaria, protagonist of my book Life Can Be a Miracle have shaped my way of thinking, perceiving, experiencing the reality. Very grateful for showing me the miraculous way of living!!!!
Se puso buena la cosa. Una vez que empecé, no pude soltar el libro. Tiene muy buen ritmo, profundiza en los personajes y aporta muchas imágenes interesantes. Es el mejor logrado de los 5 que he leido, justo antes de Relatos de Poder. Me entusiasma que la calidad de la escritura de Castaneda va subiendo con cada tomo. Ojalá así sigan creciendo los demás libros.
Not my favorite of his. Carlos goes back to Mexico a while after his apprenticeship ends and finds that Don Juan left behind other apprentices that he apparently knows nothing about. His interactions with his cohorts always annoy me. Still entertaining and worth the read, although it shakes up the whole 'world vision' he'd created in his previous books.
I started reading the Carlos Casteneda books when I was a young teenager. I read them all except for this last one and finally 30 years later finished it and it almost seems appropriate to have waited and to fully comprehend Casteneda's journey through other worlds that exist simultaneously as we exist. As a youngster this book opened all doors to possibility above and beyond our everyday lives.
If it has one star I liked it a lot If it has two stars I liked it a lot and would recommend itIf it has three stars I really really liked it a lot If it has four stars I insist you read it If it has five stars it was life changing
Personally I have no concern with whether these books are fiction or non-fiction, I found them to be good friends. Some very enjoyable tricks learned in the choices I makes when interacting with my environment.
The worst so far in the series. Not very good at all.
Such a great book to read in these times. We do forget that spirituality does not mean there is a god.
The Second Ring of Power by Carlos Castaneda (1977)
I will reread this
more castaneda...not bad
Fascinante.
Well written but too advanced for me. This book mostly involved la Gorda and has little of Don Juan.
A great Casteneda book. Another great perspective to ponder.
Nowhere near as good as "Journey to Ixtlan". Unconvincing.
