https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3086701-universal-declaration-of-human-rights
Certainly not implemented in the U.S.A couple concerns: the planks about right to property and right to change nationality will certainly be cited by the plundering class to shield their wealth.
Either a foreign engineering company has a right to acquire the water of a country as its exclusive property, or people have the right to water.
See Divided World Divided Class: Global Political Economy and the Stratification of Labour Under Capitalism, Zak Cope.Art. 24, a right to paid time off work, presupposes that everyone is a wage slave to a large corporation.
In my chosen quotes.It is a quirk that Dear M gained his Fred Pris because the UN peacekeepers won the award. He was in Cyprus at the time. The certificate hangs in the hall and attracts quite a few tongue-in-cheek comments.
20/20Un texte primordial rendu plus vivant et remis au goût du jour par ces illustrations magnifiques et touchantes. Un ouvrage à se procurer absolument pour mieux connaître ces droits fondamentaux auxquels chaque être humain est lié par sa condition même d’être humain.Ma chronique : https://myprettybooks.wordpress.com/2...
International Americanism - a confused mess of Enlightenment, puritan and Roussean ideas with no real theoretical or philosophical basis at all. Progressive aspirations and ideals are mixed and mingled with the right to self-ownership, and the thing makes no sense at all.
A short document summarising the Holy Grail of the international community. It reeks of wishful thinking and rosy glasses but I hope I am not right and one day all these statements will become a reality. Must to read to everyone, find it here: https://www.ohchr.org/EN/UDHR/Documen...
However, this year there is a push to include abortion as a fundamental right in the U.N. Declaration, a move which if passed, will cause the Catholic Church to withdraw its support from this otherwise fine document.Abortion is not a human right, but rather a fundamental violation of the most basic human right, the right to Life.
Of course, this is a classic now and many people refer to this document when they identify human rights violations.
It is a "must read." But there are some troubling aspects to this document, especially because it is so widely referenced.
Unfortunately, it contradicts itself without explanation and the reader is left wondering how these declarations must be reconciled.
Second, the declaration exceeds its scope by such a wide margin that it may be disregarded by other than Western cultures.
I encourage people to read this, if only to discover the contradictions and omissions that make it unworthy of the authority it assumes.
Groundbreaking stuff in its time, and surprisingly barely dated 60 years on, although a couple of the clauses jarred with me. A laudable document but sadly still not put into practice in too many countries.
words....
I told him to shut up, I knew what I was doing.
I told them how it fuckin was: I done more these last two years than any President in the goddamn history books, and they knew I was tellin the truth.
The lamestream media would have you believe I'm really screwing things up over here, them and that asslicker Bob Woodward, but when I said my piece to the United Peoples they knew everything was gonna be alright over here.
Next time I go I'm gonna have Pete pass around a hat to get that wall project going.
I want to recommend people to read this declaration.
This is important to know because it talks about basic human rights that everyone needs.
By growing awareness on this topic, people will be able to know what actions they should or should not take about human rights.
Through those actions, our society will be a better place.
My class had a discussion about the human right violation and one student shared his experience about a human right violation that he has seen in his country.
We found the lesson of reading the document very valuable and more people have to try this.
Consequently, I recommend more people to read this document.
I read the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and I think that this declaration is good for understand our human rights so I want to people to read this.
This is important because this declaration is showing all of the human rights and it explains a lot.
During the class one of my classmate said he had seen child labor practices in his country.
We found the lesson of reading the document very valuable and more people have to try this declaration.
So that this basic rule will protected.
Because of this, I think that a lot of people should read this document.
The paper is thick matt, and it includes a nice grey ribbon bookmark, making this book attractive enough for a gift.The Universal Declaration of Human Rights isn’t a legally binding document, nor is it a treaty, but it provides the basis for many of the treaties and laws that we follow today, and is certainly a clear basis for a sectarian morality that can be referred to regardless of background or affiliation.
My favourite points:"Everyone has the right to education.
Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages.
Elementary education shall be compulsory.
Technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit.Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
I do think this document was a step in the right direction. If this were a declaration of human rights for western/colonial states, I would have given it more stars. However as a universal document it falls short by only providing a colonial perspective on human rights. It is time for us to create a universal declaration of human rights that takes every Culture's perspective equally. The Bangkok Declaration is a step towards that. If we keep working towards a more equitable world, we might get more equitability (I made up that word, but it should exist, haha).
La déclaration universelle des droits qui n'ont jamais été respectés, car, tout simplement, les pays ayant constitué ces droist n'ont pas intérêt à les respecter.Un monde où le pauvre est un esclave du plus riche n'a pas besoin d'une telle déclaration pour savoir ce que de doit !!
Excellent, but it's kind of a daydream in China.
one of the first steps into evolution. u probably know most of the stuff listed in there as most constitutions are based on this deceleration
Il est bon de parfois relire des évidences...
Magnifique hommage d'un des textes fondateurs de l'époque contemporaine
Classic UN, declaring Western values universal...
equal in dignity and rights" which would be absurd, and is the Swedish dogma.Article 2 "Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status.
All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination in violation of this Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination."Ok - once again excepting semi-humans.Article 8 "Everyone has the right to an effective remedy by the competent national tribunals for acts violating the fundamental rights granted him by the constitution or by law." Marketing of UN institution?Article 9 "No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile."Nice one.
Cool
I read this with my classmates in grade 10 class and it was really interesting for us because there where a lot of things that we didn't know and that's why I encourage you to read this declaration of human rights.
Reading the Universal Declaration of human rights is so informational for us because there's a lot of things that we didn't know about human rights as rules in the world are new to us.
People have the right to do what ever they want to make the world a better place for you and for others to make people happy and joyful.
I read the Universal Declaration of Human Rights with my 10th grade Language and Literature students an we had a great discussion as we read.
My students are international students and each student was able to relate a violation to their home country or something they've witnessed themselves.
One student said he had seen child labor practices in his country.
Students discussed the validity of the document in today's world and if these rights should be protected more or if this document is now obsolete.
Overall, this document facilitated a great conversation with internationally-minded students.
This document is a must read. It is the document agreed to be the foundation for international human rights law. "The first draft of the Declaration was proposed in September 1948 with over 50 Member States participating in the final drafting. By its resolution 217 A (III) of 10 December 1948, the General Assembly, meeting in Paris, adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights with eight nations abstaining from the vote but none dissenting." [ http://www.un.org/en/sections/univers... ]
These rights should be taught in all schools.All SJWs should read and contemplate these rights before they attack right wing nuts. It may be frustrating that they have rights too.We all should strive to embrace all of the rights enumerated.
Basic rights of All peopleA good review and reminder of basic human rights. The United Nations serves as an example of how people are to be treated.
A well-formatted, starightforward presentation of 1948's Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Laws of life
