https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73084.Heaven_Texas
Nothing but respect for my President, Susan Elizabeth Phillips.
Instead, Bobby Tom's behavior and attitude not only refuse to improve but instead over the course of the novel plummet into the realm of HORRIFYING.As Gracie's trying to leave Bobby Tom and restore her means of self-respect, Bobby Tom breaks out of jail after a night spent assaulting his friends and being a mean drunk "sonovabitch", chases her down in a stolen squad car, and as she's running from him in terror -- a tiny 5'4'' woman against a tall, heavily muscled professional football player -- he's yelling at her to stop and ends up tackling her on the side of the road.
5 STARS[image error] What a shocker! I have no idea how she did it, but Susan Elizabeth Phillips managed the impossible. I went into this one with a bad attitude. Yes.. I had absolutely no interest in a character named Bobby Tom anything. And even the heroine left me feeling completely B O R E D...*yawn* But somehow I ended up absolutely LOVING this book!!! “There’s no accounting for the mysteries of the human heart”  [image error] Bobby Tom Denton was in the height of his career as the all-star
And even the heroine left me feeling completely B O R E D...*yawn* But somehow I ended up absolutely LOVING this book!!!
Bobby Tom Denton was in the height of his career as the all-star wide receiver for the Chicago Stars football team.
After two Super Bowl wins behind him, he had all the money he could ever want, and gorgeous women were lining up in droves to take the quiz… to be Mrs. Bobby Tom Denton.
Now working as a production assistant for the up and coming movie company, Gracie’s make-it-or-break-it moment rides on her successfully delivering Bobby Tom to movie set, ASAP.
He was Bobby Tom Denton, for chrissake.
4-4  stars – Contemporary Romance I liked SEP’s witty writing, laugh-out-loud humor, and steamy love scenes, but the hero’s crappy treatment of the heroine made me spitting nails mad at times. I just kept thinking, “why does she put up with his sh*t”?!?! Retired football legend Bobby Tom Denton might be a sexy as sin, insatiably flirtatious, happy-go-lucky, infectiously funny, womanizing, hellraising, aw shucks ma’am cowboy with killer bedroom skills and a sh*t-eating grin, but he’s also an egot
4-4 ½ stars – Contemporary Romance I liked SEP’s witty writing, laugh-out-loud humor, and steamy love scenes, but the hero’s crappy treatment of the heroine made me spitting nails mad at times.
In fact, I thought their intriguing relationship almost stole the spotlight from main couple, Bobby and Gracie.Overall, I really enjoyed this fun, sexy contemporary romance, but I would have liked it even more and given it full 5 stars had the playboy charmer been taken down a peg or ten and done a little added soul searching and a whole lot more begging!

Rolling with this series. Looking forward to finally finding out why my good friend Karen has this in her review. Hmmmmm
“You have an unusual house. Have you lived here long?""A couple of years. I don't much like it myself, but the architect is real proud of it. She calls it urban Stone Age with a Japanese Tahitian influence. I sort of just call it ugly.”  Imma let you in on a little secret. This is the novel I read after Fifty Shades of Grey to purge myself of that monstrosity of a romance/erotica. In many aspects, their plots are similar: virgin, old-fashioned heroines; billionaire, good-looking male leads and
But like Obsidian and Twilight, one of these things is better than the other and it sure as hell ain't the one that tries to pass off Tess of the D'Urbervilles as an analogy for their epic love story.So without further ado, why Heaven, Texas deserves to be better-known than Fifty Shades of Gray.Reason #1: Gracie is homely and doesn't give a fuck
She can't give him anything that he doesn't already have, so she's settling for taking nothing.Reason #3: Bobby Tom is not an abusive asshat.This is a very important reason.Gracie gets drunk at one point and throws herself at him, lacy lingerie and all.
Written January 26, 20145 Huge Stars - stunning romantic and hilarouis fun -I loved every single page - a true joy to read - simply amazing good!!Our dear hero Bobby Tom Denton:“I happen to be immature, undisciplined, and self-centered, pretty much a little boy in a man's body, although I'd appreciate it if you didn't quote me on that.”...bull's-eye, but what a fun and irresistible Texas guy!Heaven, Texas is adorable cute, funny and incredibly well written.
I think anyone who, like me, loves a charming wallflower heroine and a priceless charmer, but sometimes so narrow-minded, football hero will enjoy, giggle with and remember this story for a long, long time.
While I didn’t like this book as much as It Had to Be You, I still found it to be quite enjoyable.The story surrounds Bobby Tom Denton, a good ole southern boy.
Gracie Snow is a production assistant for the film and she has been tasked with escorting Bobby Tom from Chicago to the movie set on time.
She’s sweet, altruistic, curious, witty, giving, and very bossy.Gracie and Bobby Tom get off to a rocky start but they get to know each other better when they set off on a road trip to Heaven, TX.
⭐⭐⭐⭐ 3.5 STARS ⭐⭐⭐⭐As SEP recently revealed the cover of her upcoming 8th Chicago Star series’ novel, I was chatting with friends and realized although I enjoyed the series so far, I still hadn’t read book 2 and 6.I decided then to not leave book 2 unread —or let’s say I felt motivated by threatening OCD friends, and that’s how I’ve found myself spending my Tuesday in the charming company of Bobby Tom Denton, in Heaven Texas.Said no one ever.The man had charming only his name… Strike that. His n
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 3.5 STARS ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️As SEP recently revealed the cover of her upcoming 8th Chicago Star series’ novel, I was chatting with friends and realized although I enjoyed the series so far, I still hadn’t read book 2 and 6.I decided then to not leave book 2 unread —or let’s say I felt motivated by threatening OCD friends, and that’s how I’ve found myself spending my Tuesday in the charming company of Bobby Tom Denton, in Heaven Texas.Said no one ever.The man had charming only his name… Strike that.
A very average Phillips, with some recycled plot points from other books (or maybe it's the other way around since I haven't read them in order of publishing dates).
I really didn't like the lead male character, Bobby Tom, just the name made me just want to run the other way, the character is a boy-men, a very cliché Peter Pan type of hero.
Well, because even if her lead characters were very average, Phillips managed to created two very interesting characters in the male's lead mother, Suzy, a 52 years old widow and Waylan Sawyer the town's bad boy, turned philanthropic wealthy man.
REREAD AGAIN LOVED IT AGAIN :) ITS LIKE MY 10TH TIME :D AND ILL PROBABLY READ AGAIN BEFORE THE YEAR IS OUT :)REREAD LOVED IT AGAIN :) BE STILL MY BEATING HEART!! THAT WAS FUCKING I had a blast listening to this book!! That must sound so freaking lame to some people but I swear the best way to describe this book is FUN!! The authors sense of humor and sarcasm and writing style are so freaking engaging and I couldn't stop listening to it! I love her!! The character were awesome the storyline super
REREAD AGAIN LOVED IT AGAIN :) ITS LIKE MY 10TH TIME :D AND ILL PROBABLY READ AGAIN BEFORE THE YEAR IS OUT :)REREAD LOVED IT AGAIN :) BE STILL MY BEATING HEART!!
I had a blast listening to this book!!
That must sound so freaking lame to some people but I swear the best way to describe this book is FUN!!
The authors sense of humor and sarcasm and writing style are so freaking engaging and I couldn't stop listening to it!
The character were awesome the storyline super cute and the dialogue!!
OMG THE DIALOGUE!!
I have laughed thru out the whole book, all the characters are a trip!
THIS BOOK JUST MADE ME HAPPY!!
1st Read: April 25, 2010Bobby Tom is egotistical, selfish, privileged, conceited, and insensitive - not exactly what you look for in a hero.
But raised with southern values, he's also charming, sweet, charitable and seems like an overall nice guy, but when fashion disaster, average-looks Gracie Snow enters his life, things get a little screwy for both of them.
I loved every part of this gut-wrenching, humorous, yet emotional SM relationship between the H/h.
*Spoiler alert:My favorite part was the 5 questioned stupid-easy football quiz that Gracie had to pass at the end.2nd Read: April 18, 2012Still LOVED it.
Que bonito!!!!!!
La última frase del libro me hizo suspirar :) Reí mucho con este libro, aunque Gracie no me caiga muy bien.
SEP fue una de las primeras autoras que comencé a leer cuando me prometí leer todos los días, "Tenías que ser tú" me gustó mucho y de ahí en adelante muchas de sus historias me han dejado un buen sabor de boca.Heaven, Texas era el libro que menos me llamaba la atención, y tarde mucho en decidir leerlo, y vaya que me ha gustado bastante.
Sin duda la forma de escribir de SEP atrapa, pero sus historias enamoran.
3.5**Review contains spoilers!*This book is so silly.
I didn't take this book seriously and because it was so fascinating and amusing in a bizzare way, I'm going with 4*.
Rolling with the chick-lit shit.This book is Not safe, IMO.
This book is from 90's so I let it pass along with the silly fashion sense.
I can't even tell you how bizzare it was.(view spoiler)[Gracie expresses her love to Bobby Tom and he doesn't reciprocate, which leads to her dumping him.
Overall, I really enjoyed this book despite mixed feelings and weird scenario.
Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro
Alright you guys, I'm kind of busy right now to read the good stuff, so it's fluff all the way.
Now, I read some really atrocious romance novels last year, true, but also some very, very good ones.
This book wasn't bad, definitely, and had I not been spoilt by some of the good stuff I read last year, I may have ranked this higher.
Gracie Snow is a likable character, sure, and Bobby Tom is not the biggest douchebag.
Like take Bobby Tom's overt Texan-ness, for instance.
I do have expectations from this writer though, so I'm probably going to read another one of her books.
After my umpteenth re-read I still can't find the words to explain just how much I love this book! The story of Gracie Snow and Bobby Tom Denton continues to be a desert island book for me, despite reading it for the first time in college. And my mom's copy, no less. SEP hasn't let me down yet.
I was completely engrossed in the drama.PLOT: Gracie Snow, almost 30 years old and yet an "old maid" from a small town, becomes football pro Bobby Tom Denton's general factotum, helping him play a role in his first Hollywood film and also organizing a golf tournament for charity in his home town, Heaven (aka Telarosa) Texas.
Bobby Tom is trying to figure out what to do with his life, because a bad knee injury has brought an abrupt end to his football career.
The best grovel scene ever, because Bobby Tom has completely fumbled the ball.WEAK SPOTS: Why does Gracie need to be a virgin?
As he held his mother in his arms and felt his father's presence, he knew that same intimacy was right here waiting for him on the other side of the dance floor.
He loved her.
He loved his Gracie Snow—funny clothes, bossy manner, and all.
I LOVED Gracie and Bobby Tom's story.
Even better the secondary story between Suzy and Way was the little cherry on top of the cake and added just that much more depth to the plot.
Como siempre la SEP no me defrauda, me ha encantado este segundo libro de la serie...Una historia divertida, fácil de leer y acabas con ganas de seguir leyendo más.Los personajes principales me han encantado, la única pega que al comienzo a Gracie la ponen demasiado santurrona que parece que ha salido de la casa m de la pradera, pero según va avanzando la historia eso mejora y él q veces tiene cosas que te entran ganas de darle un par de colleja por lo cazurro que es. jajaja Pero me ha encantado este libro
Probably my least favorite Chicago Stars book when it comes to the hero. Bobby Tom reminds meof that annoying NA hero that I hate. The ending saved the book though because nothing beats a groveling hero who is sorry for all his jerk moves that he has done to the heroine.
(view spoiler)[I actually had to call my best friend - who doesn't read romance books, but loves football - and tell her about the scene where Gracie discovers Bobby Tom reviewing the video of his career-ending injury over and over again.
(hide spoiler)]Loved the road trip, Bobby Tom's menopausal mother and her secondary romance, the actress he works with on the movie, Gracie’s make-over followed by him wondering who the hell’s driving his convertible, the ice cream scene, Gracie's ideas for his old house, how you could see them falling in love as the pages turned, their real-sounding fights, LOL moments, and…well, everything.
Gracie Snow is a completely innocent, stubborn, but curious 30 year old seeking adventure. Luckily her new job working for a Hollywood studio should provide all the excitement she hopes for. Her first assignment is to collect Bobby Tom Denton, a former American football player, and bring him to the film set so they can start filming his first film. Simple? Not really, but Gracie risks life, limb and her heart to get him there. I love this book, it always comes to mind when I need something swee
Her first assignment is to collect Bobby Tom Denton, a former American football player, and bring him to the film set so they can start filming his first film.
I love this book, it always comes to mind when I need something sweet and funny to relax with.
What always has me coming back for more is the main characters; Gracie Snow and Bobby Tom Denton.
You could feel Bobby Tom's charisma and personality pouring out of the book and reeling you in, not that he was perfect, he has an ego a mile wide, but you love him anyways.
And Gracie was so funny and sweet; I couldn't help but like her.
I have a message for Bobby Tom:I hate your guts and I’m glad you got trashed at the end of the book!!!!God, I despised this guy… I just wanted to hit him in his big fat head almost all the time. And Gracie being such an idiot o.O deathstare for all of you!!Buuuuuut, overall it was a great book. I really enjoyed it.
Re-read 25/01/2016It seems I'm upping my rating of every SEP book I re-read!
Así que no diré nada sobre el machismo de muchas de sus escenas, del flaco papel que hace ella y de lo mucho que me ha dolido la cabeza con los comentarios y acciones de él jajajajaDiré que es muy divertido, al menos la primera parte...
y si todo hubiera seguido igual, se hubiera llevado las 4.Pero cuando su relación da un giro, ha dejado de interesarme, lo siento y de parecerme divertida también.Entonces ha entrado en juego una pareja secundadira...
con mucho potencial, pero me ha sabido a poco.La escena del final un pelín violenta, no?Supongo que es una novela muy enfocada al público americano..
4 1/2 starsDon't miss out on the epilogue!
SEP no falla: historias sencillas llenas de amor, humor, bien sexo... Y sin pichotismos, vulgaridades ni griteríos. A sus pies, señora.
Great romance; definitely recommend.Gracie was a wonderful heroine and I loved that there was no game-playing on her part; she was always so honest, thoughtful, forthright, sweet, but also intelligent, bold, stubborn, sassy, and when she commits herself to something ...
Gracie is able to see past the charming-always-grinning persona that he presents so often and pretty much right off the bat, she knows he's much smarter and complicated than most people give him credit for - or than he wants people to realize.
