https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6505017-the-quest-of-iranon
It tells of the wandering bard and prince-in-exile Iranon, who sings of his home city of Aira, a city his hearers do not know and have not heard of, and how he seeks to find Aira through his wanderings.
Often at night Iranon sang to the revellers, but he was always as before, crowned only with the vine of the mountains and remembering the marble streets of Aira and the hyaline Nithra.
In the frescoed halls of the Monarch did he sing, upon a crystal dais raised over a floor that was a mirror, and as he sang he brought pictures to his hearers till the floor seemed to reflect old, beautiful, and half-remembered things instead of the wine-reddened feasters who pelted him with roses.
A heartbreaking story of a never-ending search for perfection and a place where people appreciate beauty, song and art.A beautiful, young singer Iranon spends his time singing and searching for a great city of Aira, where he was a prince. The language is at times tedious, but the story is not bad. If you manage to get through the language, you'll get a wonderful bitter-sweet story. I liked it.
Written in the style of an ancient and exotic legend. Like many stories in his dream mythos, this contains a central character earnestly searching for a way into the world of dreams. Unusually - maybe uniquely! - for Lovecraft, this world can't be found, where generally the world of dreams turns out to be all too real, sometimes horribly real. This initially stumped me, but I think the take home message is one in common with many of his other books: a life without dreams where we can't rise above the mundanity of the material world is not worth living.
First bit of Lovecraft I've ever read, was almost disappointed by the lack of tentacles and mind rending horrors. It is a good short story, oddly poignant.
First Lovecraft!Whimsical. Sad. Hear-wrenching.
"The Quest of Iranon" is the most interesting of the Lovecraft stories I've read so far (I'm somewhere in the two dozen range).
There's no explanation as to why Iranon doesn't age, so it's to be assumed that it is because he is of a people of another place, a superior people.This is the bit that's interesting to me (and here comes the real spoiler), because, at the end, Iranon, still on his quest, stays with an old man, an old man with whom it turns out he was friends with during his childhood.
The general interpretation of this is that Iranon had stayed eternally youthful because he was a dreamer, and that it is the death of his dream that causes him to grow old.

It struck me how similar the Dreamlands are to the worlds of Dr. Suess. Especially the place names, the impossible angles of the architecture (R'Lyeh), and the mad proportions of his abominations. :) Lovecraft also had a treasure fetish, though not to Gygaxian extremes. A beautiful tale, perhaps about the dissatisfied nature of the ego.
Less of a horror story and more of a mythical adventure, following traditional lines.Lovecraft weaves the worlds and cities so well, and this is no exception.Iranon's quest seems so simple, yet leaves the reader in no doubt that striving for such things does not reward you.In the tradition of all great tragedies, the ending seems very fitting.
I had no idea where this was going. I thought it had an interesting premise, but was sloppily written, with no real direction.But it really turned itself around by the end. Even though this small story might seem murky and lulling, there's actually something vey profound here.
Out of all of Lovecraft's Dream Cycle/Fantasy Stories, this is one of my favorites. The idea of a dream sustaining the titular hero, and the subsequent destruction of that dream destroying him is very sentimental and not something Lovecraft did very often.
I really enjoyed this one; I liked how he played with a concept of madness, or even reincarnation which was kept unknown to the reader until the very end.
Not typical Lovecraft style, one of his Dunsanian stories, but it was beautiful. For those who don't love the Cthulu mythos tales, this might warm them to Lovecraft.
Всюди він питав, де знаходиться його рідне місто, та ніхто не міг йоиу відповісти.
Тож він співав про свої спогади і надії, а люди насміхалися з нього, тому що ніхто не вірив у пісні, а ті, хто слухав, зазвичай були охочими до вина і розваг.
Ромнод умовив Іранона відшукати Оонай, де цінували пісні.
Але Оонай виявився не тим містом, яке шукав Іранон.
Через багато років, коли Ромнод помер, Іранон, який зберіг свою молодість, зновув вирушив на пошуки Айри.
І одного разу він натрапив на пастуха, який вказав йому дорогу додому, куди він дійшов на схилі життя.
Want. To. Choke. Iranon. Even though he's like (view spoiler)[Peter Pan finding out Neverland isn't real (hide spoiler)].(Moved 2015 review to the individual work Sept. 2017 to make room to review the collection under its own entry. This one annoyed me enough to prove very memorable.)
Together with The Outsider, quite possibly the saddest Lovecraft story I've read yet. I've still got a lot more to go. Would recommend if you like his overall Dunsanian imitations. I, for one, love his Dream Cycle, I always want to go visit the fantastical places in those stories
from lovecraft's phase of Dunsany impressions. love imagistic prose but without the ring of true style.
H.P. Lovecraft - La búsqueda de Iranon (1921)
A short story about an unappreciated artist trying to find his place. Very personal for Lovecraft I imagine. The story doesn't end on a high note...
Flowery language, mythical dreamlike narrative, abrupt ending. Yep, it's some Lovecraft.
8/10
I enjoyed this story. Sad rather than simply depressing, which is surprising for Lovecraft.
Lovecraft's stories can be divided in two categories: the ones that deals with cosmic horrors, and the one set in the fantastic Dreamlands.
I would no say more to avoid spoilers.It is the story of Iranon, an artist that cannot age, looking for his lost home, Aira, the fabulous city where his father was king.
The gods of this city demand that all men toil ceaselessly, and so an archon of the city tells Iranon he must apprentice to a cobbler or leave.
He decide to leaves, but he bring with him a small boy, Romnod, who seems sympathetic to Iranon cause, and who suggests that they head for Oonai...
Well this one really hits you. I'm very disappointed in Iranon. It's really set up as a tragic story, but what was a tragedy wasn't the illusion, but the mundanes of the world around him; the complacency of the people for hopes of fruit after their lives.  There was never a grand city - and never will be - but the protagonist's "glass half empty" take was a let down. The former's death-bed full of sorrow; but did the populace get their dreams of leisure at their passing?
Another extremely boring story about how the protagonist is a superman from another world and other people are fools who cannot understand his greatness (basically what Lovecraft considered himself to be). Boring as hell, and extremely egoistic. Lovecraft's horror fiction was excellent, but his dream cycle quests were products of superiority complex.
A tragic tale of a man's fruitless search for a dream for beauty and perfection. The prose is beautiful but it uses a repetitive style that got a bit tiring towards the end, despite it being just a short story. The tale itself feels like it's telling a different lesson behind the words. Good read.
A sad fantasy tale about a whimsical youth searching for a beautiful place that may or may not exist. Once he finally finds it, his hopes are shattered as it turns out to be nothing more than a gloomy pile of ruin. Thus, something within him breaks.
twilight zone slanted hyper real reality
The circle of life, the short version.
Los soñadores estamos malditos pero viajaremos en sueños para respirar calma y sentir la magia de la belleza más sublime jamás vista e imaginada. <3
