https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1769580.Frog_Went_a_Courtin_
John Langstaff's absolutely delightful folksong adaptation Frog Went a-Courtin' is what I would loudly and with personal conviction declare an in all ways perfect marriage of text and image.
The adapted narrative, the song text (which is rollicking, silly and fun, and simply, basically a successful combination of many of the different Frog Went a-Courtin traditions) is supremely and magically complemented and complimented by Feodor Rojankovsky's bright and sweetly descriptive accompanying illustrations (and I can certainly both understand and massively appreciate why and how this book won the Caldecott Medal for the latter).
...or, rather, sung, a dozen times or so.
I'm not tone-deaf and can sing a semblance of a tune.As of last week, I have four grandchildren.
Since January 2016, I've gone from zero to four, thanks to my two children and their spouses.
😯 So I get to read all these books.
We go to the library and get six or eight at a time.
Don't recall doing that when ours were small.
I guess we just read the ones we had over and over.I'm looking forward to sharing with these new people some of the childhood books I still have.
I appreciate that Langstaff includes a note about the origins of this ballad and includes one possible tune at the end. I love the details of the illustrations, particularly the expressions on the animals' faces. My children and I enjoyed the rhythm of the song, the story line and the illustrations. A very worthy early Caldecott winner.
1956 Caldecott Medal WinnerThese older books are hard to rate. They are so different from books that are more recently published.
Frog goes a courtin' and marries Mouse.
The text is an old Scottish tune which Langstaff wrote up by combining different versions.
Susan Cooper, author of the Dark is Rising series, was a friend to Langstaff and a writer for "Christmas Revels."  Back in the day, when I used to teach music to help cover the tuition at the Montessori school where I sent my boys, I taught this song.
Later I wrote my own courtin' song called "No Promises," for my future and current husband.
Courtin's songs are very powerful.
It's a fun little tale, although I don't think I ever got the tune quite right (the melody is printed in the back, but I don't read music well at all.) Our girls enjoyed the story and laughed at the illustrations.
We also enjoyed watching the pages animated to the song as sung by Rus Young and Jack Sundrud on a Scholastic Storybook Treasures DVD.
They did a much better job than I ever could, which really added to our enjoyment of this story!
It included seven other sing-along songs with animations of the illustrated books.
Frog Went A-Courtin' is based on a famous folk song that nearly everyone has heard. Feodor Rojankovsky's illustrations are impressive by themselves, but they also do justice to the song's old-fashioned tone, illuminating the playful lyrics with notable skill. I'm not surprised these illustrations were deemed worthy of the 1956 Caldecott Medal.
Fun to sing version of the famous song.
Not really my style of book, animal illustrations are cute, but, I was more than ready for the cat to show up.. lolI did appreciate the sheet music at the end and the author's note about the history of the story/song at the beginning of the book. My parents apparently didn't know this one and I never heard it at a storytime as a child, so I don't have any kind of emotional connection to it which may have influenced my sense of apathy. I think my daughter would have also enjoyed the part with the cat.
An illustrated version of the favorite song.
A story about the story precedes the text and gives some background information on the origination of the tale and the version this book follows (southern Appalachia).
Illustrations flip back and forth between full color and black and white with highlights of green.
The picture of the chick who eats so much he gets sick may scare really young children as the bird is laying on his back and being force fed green castor oil through a funnel.
Also the long sharp claws of the cat on the two page spread near the end may scare young readers/listeners.

Rojankovsky's illustrations of the various animals are very cute and appealing. Full color illustrations alternate with black and white illustrations tinted with green. All of the animals, even the insects have very expressive faces. They also convey a lot of movement and energy. In an opening note, Langstaff indicates that he has cobbled together verses from many different versions of the song that he has collected over the years. This is one of the most fun of the early Caldecott award winners.(Caldecott Award, 1956)
This is another book that brings back some sort of memory for me so it was shared with me at some point in my youth. This song/story's origins are lost but we do know that it was written down in Scotland well over 400 years ago and it is just as delightful and silly today as it was then. This offering won the Caldecott Medal as "The most distinguished American picture book for children" back in the year of its publication and that is well-deserved.
I can't say that I love the tale, but I like knowing that this is a traditional nursery ballad. However, nothing sounds familiar, so I must have missed out on this in my childhood. Now I'll have to try picking out the tune on the piano.
This was originally a well known folk song put into book form in 1955. The illustrations are fun and reminiscent of the era in which they were created.
I think this is a great book to introduce these types of animals to young children, but in a funny way.
I am sure that all young children will really enjoy this book.
The bright colors are very enjoyable, but I am not sure why the illustrator goes back and forth between pages from bright colors, to just grays and greens.
The lines are so distinct that I feel like I could pull each animal off of the page they seem so real.
I enjoy the fact that each illustration goes exactly with the words, and whichever animal the children are reading about.
The illustrations in this book are very enjoyable, as they depict so many different animals to young readers, but with human-like characteristics.
For this reason, I feel that the illustrations in this book may even be beneficial for an art class in middle or high school to help see how a simple pencil can form such complex and diverse drawings.
Also, the backgrounds of each page are white, something similar to a lot of art classes, so it would only enforce this idea of simplicity to complexity even more with the students.
"Frog Went a-Courtin'" was a fun book that uses really good colors and illustrations to tell the story.
As I went on throughout the book, I really enjoyed how each page flipped back and forth between the vibrant and non vibrant coloring.
The book does not specifically say the medium used, but to the eye it looks like drawings.Overall, this would be a good book to use at any story time, or for kids in a music classroom, since it was originally being told by singing the words.
I think overall the most noticeable thing about the book, however, is the use of colors from page to page.
The frog in this book is a cowboy that wants to marry a mouse.
The Frog shows up at Miss Mouse's home and pulls her into his lap and proposes to her.
From the illustrations it’s easy to tell that Mistress Mouse is horrified that Frog would ask her to marry him without her Uncle’s permission.
For example to cake, music, flowers, etc.My thoughts: I think that this is such a cute book that incorporates aspects of modern marriage/weddings and early history marriage/wedding when the man had to ask for permission of the father/guardian of his intended bride before he could ask that women to marry him.
In this story, a frog goes to ask a mouse to marry him.
You see the frog asking the mouse’s father for permission.
I think the thing that really stands out in this book are the illustrations.
They are very well done and intricate, many different colors were used.
The pages also alternate from a darker green and black to bright colors of different varieties.
Overall, I thought this book was decent but it wasn't necessarily my favorite.
It's a good book if you just want to read your students or child something fun and light hearted.
Content Areas: I would definetly use this when beginning to teach students rhythm and dictation in a music classroom.
And then I would assign each student a page from the story, and ask that they depict what the text or "lyrics" are and then create a class illustrated song-book.
Comprehension: Q: Why do you think Miss Rat had to ask Uncle Rat for consent to marry?A: Because he was her fatherly figure and traditional, and she wanted to make sure it was okay with him.
Why did a frog want to marry a rat?2.
Frog Went A-Courtin’ was retold by John Langstaff (Harcourt) and illustrated by Feodor Rojankovsky.
This book was named the Caldecott Medal Winner of 1956.
This story is a folk song that has been told many times and has had the words edited many times by children or adults who could not remember the words.
The frog in the story wants to marry the pretty little mouse.
This book is full of rhymes and kind of has a melody to it.
All of the creatures of the garden come to frog and mouse’s wedding.
The illustrations in this book are bright and happy and enhance the mood of the story.
Frog Went A-Courtin’ is a fun book which can also be sung!
This book is about a frog who wants to marry a mouse, but can only do so once he gets the mouse’s uncle rat’s consent.
He gets his consent, and then all the different animals help to put the wedding together from the tablecloth to the cake, everyone pitches in.
Suddenly, a cat appears looking as in it messes up the whole wedding but instead the mouse and the frog romance ends with them happy and relaxing together in France.
The illustrations are also great with bright colors that go with all the fun this book has incorporated.
At the beginning of the story, I was a bit confused.
Although this book is a Caldecott winner, the illustrations did not appeal to me.
The illustrations were probably more appealing for the time that the book was published.
It is also good to note that is folk story that rhymes so that may have very well been the reason why I was confused.
This book is about a frog that sets on a journey to marry a Miss Mouse but she tells him that he needs to get her Uncle Rat’s consent.
Uncle Rat asks Miss Mouse details of the wedding like where will it be, who will make the dress.
This story is about a frog who set out on his horse to ask Miss Mousie for her hand in marriage.
Miss Mousie said that she can’t accept until her uncle gives consent.
When her uncle came home she told him she needs his consent to get married to the frog.
After a while the uncle gave his consent.
I think this would be a fun book to use as a read aloud in my future classroom.
However I don’t think it would affect young readers at all.
I think this could be a child’s favorite book due to the catchy melodic text.
I grew up having known the ballad of the Frog and the Mouse, also having had "CASSETTE tapes" Yes I WILL unashamedly date myself, of Frog and Mouse, along with other songs/fables for kids....The story is very simplistic as is the song....though the book expands upon the story itself a bit more...Frog wants to marry Mouse, and everything that leads up to the wedding...but what happens at the end?
You'll have to read and find out.
This book is perfect in terms of rhyming couplets and vocabulary expansion.
This would also be a great read for any storytime.
Based on an old traditional folk song, Ackerman tells the story of a frog who loved a mouse and was intent on marriage.
This is a cooperative effort, with everyone bringing something to the celebration.
Langstaff researched the tale back some 400 years to the original Scottish song, but relied most heavily on the version sung in various parts of America.
The book includes the music notes at the end, so you can plunk it out on the piano (or guitar?) if you’ve never heard it sung.
Feodor Rojankovsky won a Caldecott medal for his illustrations.
The book, "Frog Went-a-Courtin'" by John Langstaff is wonderfully well written fantasy book.
Langstaff says in the pretext that this is a story that has always been told in song, but he wanted to put it in writing with illustrations.
The story follows a frog who requests the hand of a mouse for marriage.
The story follows them along on their journey of planning and conducting a wedding only to have it sabotaged by a cat!The illustrations are what drew me to this book.
I would definitely recommend this book, it was a great read.
My kids and I really enjoyed this book. It's a compilation of many "Frog and Mouse" versions that have been handed down over the years, so there were some verses I was unfamiliar with from my childhood. They also use a different tune, which the writer claims in the one sung in Appalachia. The ballad itself was first written down in Scotland over 400 years ago and traveled to America with immigrants. The story is even older than that. It's interesting to find the history behind the silly songs we sing.
• 1956 Caldecott Winner •The beginning of the book mentions that this is a 400+ year old Scottish “story-song” so I read it with music in my head. This is cute! Just a ridiculous, fun story. I can see why it won the Caldecott. My favorite illustration is the second to last page with all the creatures running! I don’t think I’d ever heard of this before, but it seemed familiar.Materials used: unlistedTypeface used: unlisted
