https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15783514-the-ocean-at-the-end-of-the-lane
Lettie shrugged. “Nobody actually looks like what they really are on the inside. You don’t. I don’t. People are much more complicated than that. It’s true of everybody.” This story is an amalgam of helplessness and innocent ignorance of childhood with universe-old wisdom, with mystery and wonder and unexplainable and unfathomable and things that lurk around the corners of reality and seep through the cracks in the world. There's friendship and love, and cruelty and resentment. And there are mon
Some of them are things that look like things people used to be scared of a long time ago.
It's like Lettie Hempstock's ocean, the waters of which you wish you never had to leave, but where you cannot stay forever, no matter how badly you would want to.
And I will revisit it in the future, probably more than once, just to hang out with Lettie and Old Mrs. Hempstock, and maybe to catch the hint of a wave on an ancient world-ocean in the back yard.4.5 stars.
Adults are content to walk the same way, hundreds of times, or thousands; perhaps it never occurs to adults to step off the paths, to creep beneath rhododendrons, to find the spaces between fences. This book is childhood.Are all Neil Gaiman books like this? So beautifully, hauntingly nostalgic? I confess, this is my first; but right now I am logging into amazon to make sure it isn't my last. I have one criticism, which is that this book isn't really an adult book. The few adult scenes felt adde
It has everything that we could possibly ask for in childhood: magic, adventure, overcoming fears, those things that children know and adults no longer understand or remember, and it's all wrapped up in a tidy 180 pages.
Also, the narrator had my sympathy throughout; his seven year old lack of understanding and fear of the adult world that he saw as separate from his own was easily believable, for me.
I think we do create a world of our own when we're kids, one that adults aren't a part of, that's how we're able to believe in things like magic and wizards and Santa.
Sitting down to write a review of this book, I don't quite know where to start.
I realize that what I am writing here is not really a review in any conventional sense.
Let the professionals write their reviews.
So if you're looking for impartiality, this is not the review for you.
It made me love Neil Gaiman a little more than I already did, and that's something I didn't think was possible.Do I hope to someday write a book like this?
In the future, when Joss Whedon and I are best friends and hanging out together in my tree fort, I hope Neil Gaiman comes over too.
"All monsters are scared.That's why they're monsters." 48 hours ago, when I read the last page for the first time, I had this strange, sad feeling. Like I had come to the end of something beautiful without really comprehending the beauty of it until the last minute.Which is why it took me a re-read to realize how brilliant this book is.The Ocean at the End of the Lane is childhood in 181 pages.Short. Sweet. Magical. Scary. Real.There is a reason this book is labelled as "adult" and it has nothi
Like I had come to the end of something beautiful without really comprehending the beauty of it until the last minute.Which is why it took me a re-read to realize how brilliant this book is.The Ocean at the End of the Lane is childhood in 181 pages.Short.
Real.There is a reason this book is labelled as "adult" and it has nothing to do with sexual content or violence or gore.
You must be adult enough to miss childhood.Me, I'm not there yet.
I can still see it when I turn back.So right now, no.
Monsters come in all shapes and sizes. Some of them are things people are scared of. Some of them are things that look like things people used to be scared of a long time ago. Sometimes monsters are things people should be scared of, but aren’t. I turned 7 early in third grade. It was a memorable school year because I had for a teacher a nun with a reputation. Sister Evangelista was about 5 foot nuthin’, and symmetrical. If the what’s black and white, black and white, black and white – a nun r
Neil on a drainpipe as a lad – from his FB pageWhen the unnamed narrator of Neil Gaiman’s book, The Ocean at the End of the Lane, turns 7, he has troubles of his own.
Although he doesn’t characterize his intentions as horror-mongering, Gaiman has laid out what he was up to in writing the book.It was meant to be just about looking out at the world through the kind of eyes that I had when I was 7, from the kind of landscape that I lived in when I was 7.
(A-) 84% | Very GoodNotes: We make pilgrimage to the landmarks of our childhood, in vain, to revive somehow the magic and wonder of youth.
$3.99 on kindle US. Today only! 2-4-18This was a magical story both happy and dark. I loved it so much! And Neil Gaiman did a wonderful job of reading his own book ❤Once a boy befriended a girl named Lettie Hempstock, her mother and grandmother and nothing was ever the same again.....There are beautiful and horrible things in this world and we find these things inside this book A boy that is coming of age in a world we know nothing about and everything about.... It did make me sad but you have t
And Neil Gaiman did a wonderful job of reading his own book ❤️Once a boy befriended a girl named Lettie Hempstock, her mother and grandmother and nothing was ever the same again.....There are beautiful and horrible things in this world and we find these things inside this book A boy that is coming of age in a world we know nothing about and everything about....
It did make me sad but you have to read the book to understand it.
Adults are content to walk the same way, hundreds of times, thousands; perhaps it never occurs to adults to step off the paths, to creep beneath rhododendrons, and find the spaces between fences.
The Ocean sounded like a a welcome return to the familiar field, and I was compelled to give it a try.Gaiman's narrator is an unnamed English man in his forties, who returns to his childhood home located in the English countryside of Sussex.
He ends up by the house of his childhood friend, Lettie Hempstock, and remembers when he was seven years old and how Lettie used to call the pond beside her house an ocean.Ultimately, this is a lazy book - for several reasons.
It's kinda ridiculous how much I want to read this book. I'm seriously considering abusing my small amount of power to see if I can wangle and ARC out of somebody....
Whoopsie daisy, it's unpopular opinion time again. As I scroll through the Goodreads page of this book, I only find raving reviews. Four and five stars aplently, a rare three stars at the least. And here I am, positively convinced that Neil Gaiman is a terrific author, yet the two books I've read of him were completely underwhelming.Thing is, I have no idea what the hell I just read. It was bizarre and weird and, quite frankly, not in a good way.But I am not giving up. I will find a Neil Gaiman book to love. I will.
“I went away in my head, into a book. That was where I went whenever real life was too hard or too inflexible.”   This is a book that teaches us that we should never stop dreaming, that we should never stop seeing oceans in ponds and that we should never, ever, stop seeing better worlds in the things we read.The pond that was an ocean bespeaks the level of optimism that is inherent with childhood dreams. Everything seems better. Everything seems bigger and grander. Imagination makes the ordinar
This is a book that teaches us that we should never stop dreaming, that we should never stop seeing oceans in ponds and that we should never, ever, stop seeing better worlds in the things we read.The pond that was an ocean bespeaks the level of optimism that is inherent with childhood dreams.
In The Ocean at the End of Lane anything is possible as a child’s dreams and memories propel the narrative forward.The Ocean at the End of the Lane is a truly fantastic book in every regard.
It would scare them." -Maurice SendakConsidering how obsessed we are with the idea of childhood as a culture, it’s pretty wild that no one can capture it quite like Neil Gaiman.https://emmareadstoomuch.wordpress.co...There are a lot of movies about boring white-straight-male aspiring writers in their 30s being taught how to LIVE WHIMSICALLY by a manic pixie dream girl.
Maybe only Neil Gaiman can remember what it’s like to be a child.It is wondrous, and beautiful, and whimsical, and even dramatic.
It’s magical in the way that I felt the world was when I was a child.
هل هي دراما اجتماعية أم واقعية سحرية، فانتازيا حضرية أم لعلها عالية..أم هي رواية رمزية؟كل هذا قد يتجمع في عالم واحد..عقل الأطفال، باﻷخص هؤلاء ذوي الخيالطفل وكتاب وقطة صغيرة، طعم الخبز اﻷسمر وتوست أبيض بلا طعم، المربي البيتي بالقطع و كوب لبن 'محلوب' لتوهالقمر عندما يكون بدرا كبيرا مصفر اللون، فكر قليلا وقل لي بصراحة...متي أخر مرة نظرت فيها إلي القمر؟جو الريف، بحيرة البط الصغيرة التي كنا نراها محيطا...المحيط الذي بأخر الحارة أخيرا صرت ووالدي أصدقاء ببلوغي العشرينات. كان بيننا القليل جدا من الإهتما
هل هي دراما اجتماعية أم واقعية سحرية، فانتازيا حضرية أم لعلها عالية..أم هي رواية رمزية؟كل هذا قد يتجمع في عالم واحد..عقل الأطفال، باﻷخص هؤلاء ذوي الخيالطفل وكتاب وقطة صغيرة، طعم الخبز اﻷسمر وتوست أبيض بلا طعم، المربي البيتي بالقطع و كوب لبن 'محلوب' لتوهالقمر عندما يكون بدرا كبيرا مصفر اللون، فكر قليلا وقل لي بصراحة...متي أخر مرة نظرت فيها إلي القمر؟جو الريف، بحيرة البط الصغيرة التي كنا نراها محيطا...المحيط الذي بأخر الحارة
I want to read this book so much.
Can a pond being an ocean? Sure! Why not?  DON'T THINK IN LIMITATIONS BUT POSIBILITIES  Nobody actually looks like what they really are on the inside. Once you can get to accept that a pond likely can be a whole ocean, you will then enjoy this wonderful book.I think that Neil Gaiman, the author, was a genius even deciding the length of the book.Sure, the initial intention was to make a short story that ended inton being a novel, but at 181 pages of length, it's most likely a novella.However, th
Once you can get to accept that a pond likely can be a whole ocean, you will then enjoy this wonderful book.I think that Neil Gaiman, the author, was a genius even deciding the length of the book.Sure, the initial intention was to make a short story that ended inton being a novel, but at 181 pages of length, it's most likely a novella.However, that's the beauty of the concept.
The Ocean at the End of the Lane is marketed as Gaiman's first adult novel since Anansi Boys.
It feels a lot more like a young adult novel, more akin to the Graveyard Book or Coraline than American Gods.
In and of itself, that's fine, but with a whopping 25.99 price tag, it's kind of a gouge.Gripes aside, The Ocean at the End of the Lane is a pretty cool book.
Gaiman has a way of making his young adult books way scarier than his adult ones and this one falls into that category.
The Ocean it alludes to is deep (fathom-deep as the true meanings of family & love & death); blue (icy like the Coraline's motherspider antagonist-- the demonic Nanny McPhee in the middle of the story; cold like the rigidity of death, the panic of succumbing to childhood traumas); vast (like the leitmotifs spread out in elegant splendor along the narrative, tokens of the writer's impressive & grand imagination), with suds atop (the frivolity and juxtaposition of childhood elements with the supernatural positively effervesce) but much darker & stranger as the composites of the undertow sometimes reach upward, showing us the complex nature of human souls.
I loved the definition of adults from the book: Grown-ups don't look like grown-ups on the inside either.
Inside, they look just like they always have.
Not one, in the whole wide world.The book is also a horror novel, with monsters, terror, pain and suffering that seems too much for a child.
However, in the real world you find monsters everywhere and we need to learn how to deal with them from early age.
Some of them are things that look like things people used to be scared of a long time ago.
Sometime monsters are things people should be scared of, but they aren't.
The Ocean at the End of the Lane by Neil Gaiman is a fantasy in the The Graveyard Book section of his cannon, with Young Adult elements but written for adults.
Like American Gods, the book explores mythos and ancient mysteries and Gaiman is in rare form with a subject matter that resounds with disconnects between our mature selves and our inner child.
Gaiman approaches the supernatural in his story in much the same way as Jo Walton did in Among Others, using minimalism and a subtle shift in perspective.
In many respects, Gaiman has become a fantasy writer in the tradition of Ray Bradbury.
Some books you read.
Mr. Gaiman captures the feeble nature of childhood perfectly in this work.He confessed that he actually meant it to be a short story that got out of control.Interestingly so, the author attributes the motivation for writing this masterpiece to deal with a 4 month separation from his wife.The result was a thoroughly engaging and majestically laced novel.
An ocean of feelings.Told you, this is the hardest book to be reviewed I have read this year.So, I will let that be the end.A perfect glittering 5 stars!
I really, really wanted to like this book...but like so many others, it fell flat.  Maybe  it's because we follow the least-interesting character in the entire book. Honestly, I couldn't be the only one who would've preferred to get the perspectives of the witches or the worm-creature? Or even the spiteful cat.  I was a normal child. Which is to say, I was selfish and I was not entirely convinced of the existence of things that were not me, and I was certain, rock-solid, unshakeably certain, tha
I really, really wanted to like this book...but like so many others, it fell flat.
it's because we follow the least-interesting character in the entire book.
Sometimes a little mystery is needed and sometimes, just explain it already.Neil Gaiman always has the craziest, wildest, awesomest ideas...and 4/5 times they just absolutely fall flat to me.
It's like...I like the idea/concept better than actually reading the book.
That being said, I do enjoy how much his main character loved to read.
Every time he talked about books, I was like preach!
Neil Gaiman read it himself and wow.
Of course, the other explanation is that everything that happened is pure fantasy, i.e. the monster manipulated his father into drowning him and it wasn't 'real' but a fictional account, but this explanation for me is even less satisfying because as I alluded to originally the story just becomes your garden variety attack of the evil babysitter and ruins the profoundness of the rest of the book.
Purely as a work of writing, The Ocean at the End of the Lane is top notch and modern myth at its best.What I can't overlook though, is that Gaiman writes the book from the point of view of a middle aged man looking at his childhood through the eyes of his seven year old self, and it just didn’t work for me.
I mean the writing is just beautiful!!!A middle aged man goes back to his hometown to attend a funeral and he revisits his childhood memories of the time he was friends with a girl named, Lettie Hempstock.
Completely wrong!The lesson I learned from this book is that it's very important to step out of my comfort zone and that I need to listen to more books by Mr. Gaiman!The one thing I will say is that I don't usually listen to audiobooks read by the author.
That says a lot because Mr. Firth rocked my world with his narration of "The End of the Affair"!!!Highly recommended!
Tis a fyne tale.
And Lettie—magical, comforting, wise beyond her years—promised to protect him, no matter what.A groundbreaking work from a master, The Ocean at the End of the Lane is told with a rare understanding of all that makes us human, and shows the power of stories to reveal and shelter us from the darkness inside and out.
Been told before, as what has not, but to call this little entertainment a groundbreaking work by a master is absurd.Did I enjoy it?
Why settle for a small library of old childhood adventures when each day offers a new one?
Why cling to a past and forsake a future?As an incorrigible nostalgic it’s not easy to explain what draws me to my frequent ruminations on the years when I was young, protected and innocent, what compels me to relive those moments.
The dreams, fears and memories are his, but the glow mesmerises all of us in Nostalgia Avenue, taking us back to the days of bewilderment in its purest form.

Μια ιδιαίτερη και μυστηριώδη ιστορία που ξεκινάει με μια αυτοκτονία η οποία γίνεται κάλεσμα σε ότι κακό μπορεί να φθείρει και να διεγείρει την ψυχή και το μυαλό των ανθρώπων.
Η παιδική ψυχή όμως αρνείται να βοηθάει το κακό και ζητάει βοήθεια απο μια γειτονική οικογένεια η οποία ζούσε σε εκείνο το μέρος πριν ακόμα φτιαχτεί το φεγγάρι!Στο πίσω μέρος του σπιτιού αυτής της "εκλεκτής"οικογένειας υπάρχει μια λιμνούλα για πάπιες.
The writing was beautiful, rich and full of complex emotion but it often felt that it was pulled out of thin air without careful planning and the pseudo-mysticism was a bust for me (and that's saying a lot because I tend to eat that stuff up with whipped cream)Often Gaiman understood the seven year old protagonist to the core but then he would veer off and the child had the mind and comprehension of adulthood.
This was jarring to say the least.I look forward to reading more Gaiman (American Gods is on my shortlist) but I am not sure why he has achieved rock star bookselling status.
I picked up this book with high expectations but in the end I felt that Gaiman has stretched the story unnecessarily - it could've been a really nice, but not great, short story, had he not extended it.
I remember enjoying reading The Catcher in the Rye, but this one was not that great and I've mixed feelings towards this book.
His depiction of the tale is admirable and he was able to evoke many emotions simultaneously - fear, sadness, anger, disgust, anticipation, surprise, and joy.
But I'm still not sure if I liked this story by Gaiman.2.5/5.0
