https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/638371.Gravitation
I don't want to whine or anything, but how come the evolutionary biologists get all the attention when the religious right express opinions on science?
Why isn't there a massive campaign to make sure that books like this one get sold with a prominent sticker on the front saying "Gravitation's Just A Theory"?
It is, you know.
Most schoolchildren don't as much as get told that Intelligent Falling exists, let alone giving it equal air time.
And, unless I'm greatly mistaken, there's hardly anyone even trying to address the problem.The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
I read this when I was twelve and made my own models of tensors out of egg boxes. My mother says she still has them up in the loft.
This is high up on my list of favorite general relativity books, very possibly number one.
It offers two interwoven tracks: One holds your hand through a carefully detailed development of GR and related mathematics, covering all the points necessary for an understanding the later advanced, topical chapters.
The other skims the waves, covering only what you need for a quick course in GR.
Either track is both readable and thorough, sprinkled liberally with optional sections that offer more mathematical detail, and occasional sidebars on history, people, and other points of interest.
This shit is a long-ass beautiful poem.
finally ordered a copy. i figure if i'm stuck in texas for another 9 months, i might as well learn why i hit the ground when i pass out.--This is supposedly The Book regarding that tricky fourth force and the framework of General Relativity, and thus I need to man-up and read it at some point. Beyond it lies...?

I learned a lot - it's sort of like General Relativity for Dummies in the sense that it actually gives examples... most texts don't. I also learned why they call this tome "The Phonebook"; it's big.
From http://www.nytimes.com/2008/04/14/sci..."In 1973, Dr. Wheeler and two former students, Dr. Misner and Kip Thorne, of the California Institute of Technology, published “Gravitation,” a 1,279-page book whose witty style and accessibility — it is chockablock with sidebars and personality sketches of physicists — belies its heft and weighty subject. It has never been out of print."
The jewel of texts on classical relativity. It is massive, it is a common joke among physics students that it "illustrates its topic by its weight." It is also the authoritative text on the classical topic; most modern texts take examples and expositions directly from it. Every student of relativity loves this text for its clarity and completeness.
Between the submission, the fear or the abandonment
I originally read Gravitation shortly after it came out. It was a good read and primer then although I think it might be a bit dated now (more recent research/discoveries). However, as a read for someone considering the field and not afraid of a little work, a good read.
A spinor is a flag and a pole. I'll remember that forever.
The cover art itself is worth giving the book a read!
I first browsed this book in the university library in 1975.
I was stunned by it.
It is a wonderful reference book to have on the shelf.
However, if you only self-study, like me, you would want a copy.
But, you would want other books as well.
I hear that is used to be referred to as the Telephone Book.
I suppose this was due to its size.
The first edition was released in 1973.
The authors never provided a revised edition.
The sheer size of the task discourage them.
I also liked the Track I and Track II approach.
Ok, I actually only read a few chapters of it. But it is way cool
exelente
this book was very amazing,original and well-written.
Still working through the Tensor Calculus!! LOL
The authority on relativity and projective geometry. Provides all the proofs you ever needed in an easy to follow format.
This one year graduate text took me 3 years to understand. I have no questions for the author because he expected to much coverage in a 1 year coursel
Not a great teaching book, but a classic that should be on everyone's bookshelf as a reference.
Textbook. Heavy.
