https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/570172.The_Brain_That_Changes_Itself
But then he quoted an Indian doctor about the importance of individual case studies and I could see what he was doing.My concern with statistically valid results started when he was talking about internet pornography changing the structure of people’s brains to such an extent that they were existing on 2 – 3 hours sleep a night.
As was the discussion of the woman born with only the right side of her brain.The story of the woman at the start who was 'constantly falling' - a bit like Alice getting to Wonderland - was also another of those horror stories, I initially worried this book might end up.
So far this book has taught me two things.
Leaving me, at the end of each chapter, feeling a little more indestructible.In other news, the books was quick and accessible to Humanity Heads and even Grammar Faces who have a little mental science sizzle every time the word polymerase is used in a sentence.
It had my full attention until I got to the chapter on Handsome Henry and "sexual preference" when I got too angry to continue.
I skimmed and skipped and then read the rest of the book in full.
Just hitting Wikipedia shows some doubt about the experiments -- the ones with clear positive results were conducted by biased people and weren't subjected to double-blind methods.Then I got to the chapter on "sexual perversions".
If your brain isn't wired the way other people's brains are wired, you've got to fix it.This did make his chapter on OCD and related problems interesting to me (see also my mental health awareness post on Generalised Anxiety Disorder and Me).
isn't, and I'm sure there must be a better book out there with a bit less of the author's personal feelings directing the text.
This book is about the plasticity of the brain.
The book is really a set of stories about people who have regained or developed senses they either lost or never had.
For example, one man had a stroke and lost the use of his left side.
Other stroke victims can now receive plasticity therapy to regain lost motor functions.Phantom limb pain in amputees can be stopped with mirrors.
We'll see if it can help an old man.P.S. there are some animal testing stories in the book that made me a little quesy.
Oliver Sacks, he ain't.
Despite the back cover blurb from Oliver Sacks, this is definitely a lesser book.
There are some interesting things in here, and may be worth a read, even though there was one chapter that I thought was just terrible.
But don't go looking here for Sacks' deep humanism and warmth.
This is much more the distant case history, although the science he's talking about is fascinating.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
في تصوري من أهم الكتب التي تعالج نظرتنا للدماغ بعيداً عن التصورات القديمة التي تعتقد بثبات بنية الدماغ - كما هو الحال في باقي أعضاء الجسم- منذ وقت مبكر من العمر وأن خلايا الدماغ عندما تصاب او تموت لا يمكن استبدالها وأصل هذه النظرية أن الدماغ عبارة عن آلة رائعة مثل ماكينة الحلاقة أو المايكرويف يعمل بشكل عظيم ومتقن لكنه لا يستطيع معالجة نفسه ولا ينمو أي أن الجزء المسؤول في الدماغ عن معالجة مايصله من البصر مثلاً يبقى مدى الحياة مسؤول عن معالجة مايصله من خلال البصر.
Using these marvelous stories to probe mysteries of the body, emotion, love, sex, culture, and education, Dr. Doidge has written an immensely moving, inspiring book that will permanently alter the way we look at our brains, human nature, and human potential.Doidge is not a man you would want to invite for dinner as he has no humanity.
MANY animals were harmed in the making of book, sickeningly so, and on many occasions seemed to me, unnecessary numbers.
A truly fascinating, accessible book about the plasticity of the brain. Most interesting to me were the clever approaches that some psychologists invented, for solving or mediating various mental/physical problems. Although this book is not of the "self-help" variety, it contains a number of approaches that have been used for improving brain functioning.
The big idea of the book is the concept of plasticity and how the brain deals with learning and changing multiple skills.
In a nutshell each brain function is "fighting" for limited resources, there's only so much mapping space available and what you work on the most gets developed.
As we age the common brain functions get deeper mapping and it gets extremely hard to build new habits because the limited space is already taken by the old ones.
What this means is that you need to start cultivating the right habits and skills RIGHT NOW!To conclude we must realize that unlearning is a lot harder than learning because every repetition of that old habit made it stronger.
Our brain has the ability to change - through learning, through experience, through our thoughts.
It was once thought that the brain was "hardwired," and that certain parts of the brain performed specific tasks and that if those parts died, the person was incapable of performing these tasks.
The discoveries and experiments depicted in this book are changing the way we view the brain and will impact the way we live.
This book was a very interesting read.
I found it to be a pretty "light" read, in that the science mumbo-jumbo had been effectively translated into English.
But that doesn't mean Doidge's claims are unsupported--throughout the text, and in extensive notes, he cites published research results, giving the book plenty of credibility.The Brain that Changes Itself discusses the (apparently controversial) subject of neuroplasticity.
Although many of its claims seem perfectly intuitive (through mental and physical exercise, we can shape our brains being the main one), the results are often surprising.
This book made me more motivated to get off my duff, try new things, and exercise my brain.
كتاب مذهل .. من أفضل الكتب العلمية التي قرأتها .. يتضمن تجارب رائعة واحداث وقعية وبعلمية بحتة .. استفدت كثيراً من المعلومات و في الوقت ذاته استمتعت .. يستحق خمس نجوم بجدارة.
His father was eventually able to resume his hobby of walking in the mountains.Before we talk about miracle cures, it is critical to note that the “plastic” is very stiff and resistant to change, and it takes months or years to adapt a part of the brain to a different purpose.
Re-Wiring EducationThis book directly challenges the modern educational practice of “compensation”, which is to avoid any activity that is difficult for the student, and instead find a way to work around it.
Reading his therapy case studies, with people working all day, every day for months and years, I could not help wondering who was going to get the bill?
This book was amazing.
Not a real page-turner, but a fascinating look at the brain's ability to rewire itself and grow/change beyond our expectation.Praise the Lord who made our brains so complex and adept at fulfilling their purpose!I especially liked the chapters that dealt with autism, and overcoming disabilities.
If you are interested in neuroplasticity, brain maps, or just want some ideas about keeping your brain in shape as you age - you may want to read this book.(I didn't particularly like the chapter 4 - it dealt with the brain's role in adapting sexual attraction, and got a bit graphic for me.
But that chapter could be skipped over and the message of the book would still be intact.)
Dans "Les étonnants pouvoirs de transormation de cerveau" le psychiatre Torontois Norman Doidge décrit tous les nouveaux traitements pour le crises cérébrales, la sclérose en plaques, la sourdité, les déficiences visuelles, la dyslexie, le TDA (trouble déficitaire de l'attention), la douleur, et des blessures traumatiques au cerveau qui qui exploitent la nature plastique du cerveau.
Le ton euphorisant de Doidge rappelle celui des Actes des apôtres.
Doidge nie soulever des faux espoirs.
Doidge prétend qu'il lutte plutôt contre le faux desespoir.
D'après Doidge la nouvelle médécine neuroplastique donne des nouvelles espoirs à des gens qui souffrent de tout une gamme de maladies
At times, some chapters sounded like infomercials for a particular treatment/technique, though I think this was simply enthusiasm on the author's part, perhaps to honor the men and women who contributed to this book.Obviously we haven't figured the brain out, but with each new discovery we find another small piece of the puzzle and Doidge did a good job of introducing the concept of neuroplasticity, how we got there scientifically, and its implications.Some of the reviews I read found fault with the chapter on sex, which talked about the addictive side of pornography among other things.
The book is about neuroplasticity: the idea that our thoughts and experiences can rewire and change the structure of our brains.
This may sound like a revolutionary idea in an age when too many people talk about a brain hardwired by our genes, and the author certainly dramatizes this point and wants to portray his book as representing a novel and ground-breaking idea, but somehow what the book says didn’t come across to me as revolutionary as it claims.
Some ideas in this book are common sense and common knowledge, like avoiding Alzheimer’s disease in the old age by living a life of intense mental activity.
This is an absolutely fascinating book about how neurologists have discovered in the past thirty years or so that the human brain is much, much more resilient and plastic than it was believed to be for a long time.
Doige profiles some of the most innovative neurologists in the field, and discusses case histories of individuals who exemplify the brain's plasticity.There was only one section of the book where I felt Doige was dodging some issues.
In the chapter on sexuality, he discusses the role that neuroplasticity might feature in the case of fetishes or addiction to pornography.
He stops short, however, of the risky topic of what neuroplasticity might mean in the case of sexual orientation.
I found this book so inspiring. As a psychiatrist, not much of the subject matter was new, but Doige has compiled decades of research into a readable book about how amazing and adaptable the brain is. I must say that it has really made me think not only about how neuroplasticity affects my clinical practice, but also how it influences myself, my children and my family.
Author Norman Doidge argues that the same process of reinforcing neuron connections that allows the brain to change, is also responsible for the creation of behavioral rigidity: The more we engage in a certain behavior, the more entrenched that behavior becomes.
As such, the same process that is responsible for our ability to adapt and change can also makes us more rigid and inflexible.
The book does not present plasticity as a panacea, and it directly cautions against the notion of human perfectibility (perfectibilité, Jean-Jacques Rousseau), but it does offer optimism concerning the brain's ability to adapt, and it looks at how this can be put to practical use.
An interesting and important read for everyone else.
Cleverly done - he takes real stories about people who have changed their brains, the way they move, communicate, think, act, etc., and discusses the science behind it.
Another interesting aspect is his discussion on the history behind neuroplasticity.
We have known for years that our brain can change.
When I became a nurse we were taught that your brain is the way it is.
I never believed people couldn't change.
However, if you need encouragement to change in ANY WAY, this will do just that.
This is a book discussing plasticity, and how real it is.A++
It seems like that this book has become a classic and one can read it over and over again for a dose of encouragement about the brain and its plasticity and that there is nothing impossible with God. Everything can change for the best and all the long-held theories have been largely proven wrong and it is never too late for the brain to do many wonderful things, despite anything in the big, wide world!
Furthermore, unlearning is a lot harder than learning in a similar way because every repetition of that old habit made it stronger to change further.Now, the brain's ability to change depends on learning through experience( outside stimulants, turning on some genes in catalyst environments...).So, the concept that the certain brain parts were "hardwired" to perform specific tasks were overthrown by its capacity to deny the death of those brain cells( it can simply rewire to accomplish tasks ).The book was so lucid and well consuming but I don't want to have dinner with Norman Doidge for a personal reason( emotional ok?
I have worked extensively with a wide variety of Alzheimers and Dementia care patients, so I am not really surprised by the novelty of things the human mind may be able to come up with so much as the authors explanation for how these connections can be made/rewired.
I have to say, that I think the book is geared somewhat to people like myself, or who were brought up with a similar mindset about the way the brain functions and you can tell from early on the author is really trying to get the reader to see that the brain has plastic aspects and can readily adapt to a wide variety of circumstances.
It was remarkably easy to read and understand, well set out with a lot of supportive evidence.
What I am going to do now is: get out there, do a bit of exercise to help grow a few neurons; exercise my brain wildly so I don't lose any.
EDIT:I was very excited to find out Friday, that the organisation I work for has a programme in place to test the theory of re-wiring the brain.
One of the topics written about in this book.12 children with learning difficulties have been sellected to trial the programme.
Hmmm..... This book started out quite interesting but unfortunately I haven't been able to continue reading it. The description of testing on animals started in Chapter 3 and continued in Chapter 4. As an animal lover and animal rights campaigner, I just could not bear to read the detailed descriptions of the torture these poor animals were put through.
This book is so dense and fascinating! It really makes you realize 1.) how little we know about how the brain works and 2.) how much possibility there is for making huge strides in things like brain injury and mental illness even based on that small amount that we now know.
Amazing from both a lay and scientific perspective and introduced me to some authors/neuroscientists (e.g. VS Ramachandran) whose work I continue to follow and enjoy.
Simply a masterpiece.
The book gives the message that all sorts of amazing things can be done through lots of brain retraining work, but doesn't claim that it is a quick and easy cure for everything either, which I appreciated.Some people are taking the idea of neuroplasticity and running with it and maybe going a bit too far and claiming that we can retrain our brains to be any way we want (such as choosing our sexuality), and to use it to cure completely every neurological disease.
