https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5167.Cane_River
This novel is a fictional depiction of the author’s own family tree for six generations exclusively through the female line with one exception: her grandfather.
Some people in this family were bought and sold, females were subjected to being used sexually by their masters, yet dignity remained.
Through the stories of this family, I was able to live a part of history and come away inspired by the courage and determination they utilized to move them through some of the hardest years of those times past.I am grateful, and I recommend this book to everyone who enjoys reading historical family sagas.
I should divulge that I formerly lived along Cane River (the in-town part) and was given a free copy by our local National Park unit at a public symposium.
I started the book that night at bedtime, thinking I'd read for an hour or so, per usual.
When I showed up slightly bleary-eyed for class the next day, one of our observant grad students (thanks, Melissa!) asked whether I'd been up all night finishing "the Book of Crack" as she called it.
It was a wonderful story--kind of an Alex Hailey's _Roots_ set along the region surrounding Cane River in northwest Louisiana (roughly spanning Natchitoches to Cloutierville).
She calls it fiction, though, because she had to elaborate and add rich detail to the simple stories she had been told of her grandmothers before her.What shocked me most about this novel was that it was Tademy's first.
I loved it because the mothers and grandmothers weren't shoved to the side when the story switched focus, which is further reflection on how Tademy's family thinks of their elders, especially their grandmother's.This book is a surprisingly enjoyable novel, and I'd say if the story doesn't sound like something you would want to read, give it a try anyway.
Lalita Tademy has turned her family story into a fictionalized account of three generations of women who have each faced physical and emotional trauma with strength, dedication to family, and a burning need to move their families forward.
When faced with no choice but to physically submit themselves to the men who hold the power of life and death over them, each woman ultimately does what she feels is best for the resulting children.
Ya'll....There is so much to experience in Cane River!I generally haven't had the best of luck with Oprah Book Club picks, however Cane River was a home run for me and is going on my favorite reads list.
Secondly, what I knew of the plot of the book was that it was about a family of women slaves during the Civil War era....which could be depresing, graphic, etc.
Granted, some of the situations that happen to the family of women in the book are sad, and make me frustrated that people were ever treated that way, the overall tone of the book, for me, was one of hope.
Another pleasant surprise with this book is that it is not graphic - there were plenty of times when some white master came to the slave women and the author could have let these situations be pretty awful - but she didn't.
All but the first generation had children by white fathers--one by force, one by a coldly calculated relationship intended to benefit the children, & one by a long-term loving relationship hampered by ostracism & legal constraints.
The special challenge of these mixed-race relationships is--along with the resources of family strength--the main focus of the book.
Moderately engaging & somewhat didactic, with serviceable but not inspiring prose, it's worthwhile reading but not worthy of the enthusiastic recommendation it got from Oprah, Darlene, & my Mom.
Cane River is an odd mix of fiction and non-fiction, and I'm not sure it entirely works.
As non-fiction, it is limited by the availability of sources, and it truly seems like there is much that has to be speculative.
As fiction, it is equally limited by the sources - the author is hemmed in by what she does know, and that structure seems binding.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Really not good. Which I knew by around page 5. But I read all 500 pages to the end, mostly because my next set of books from Amazon hadn't arrived yet. Interesting story and concept, but the writing is just stinky. It's definitely got the vibe of "I quit my job at Sun to write a fiction book." The dialogue is really bad and the characters are just poorly developed (even though they're real people).
Lalita Tademy's book, Cane River, tells in fictional form the stories of four generations of the women in her family.The story, focusing on the women that raised children, mostly by white men, in rural Louisiana during the years before the Civil War and into the 1930s, brings home the true tragedies of slavery.
Generation after generation struggle with the truth of being of dark skin in the South, as her daughters and granddaughters bear children to white plantation owners against their will, finally using the desires of these white men against them to better the lives of their children.The great tragedy for me in this book was that these wonderful women, each beautiful and strong, was unable to realize the glory of their color.
An important thread that runs from beginning to end in Cane River is the impact of skin color biases within the black community, and Tademy's family specifically.San Francisco Bay Area native Lalita Tademy has a unique story to tell about her family lineage, and I'm glad she took the time to research and write this novel.
Lalita Tademy brings a cast of memorable characters to life, with a great literary flair.I selected this novel for the February 2009 meeting of my library-based Mostly Literary Fiction Book Discussion Group.
I also recommend her second novel, Red River, which explores (again in fictional form) her father's ancestors, and the devastating Colfax, Louisiana, Massacre of 150 black freedmen in 1873.
I am always wary when it comes to books written by regular people who decided to discover their family history.
And they are usually badly written.Also this was an "Oprah" book, so I was expecting lots of gooey 'women power' yadda-yadda.I was pleasantly surprised.
She doesn't over-romantacise her heroines - something hard to avoid when you write about your ancestors, so she earned one star for that alone.
The remaining three stars are for an interesting story and insight into life in Deep South during the slavery and post-Civil War era.
The book seems extremely well researched so I trust my vision of that time is not distorted.
3,5 *I have to admit that I was a little bored throughout the first half of this novel, I dont know exactly why, but I think it was the plot and the many characters that I thought forced somehow.
It was like the author had to have all names involved down on paper no matter what the consequence, and I ended up with a feeling that it wasnt an important book - which I know it was!The second half was a little better (to me) and I ended up with 3,5 *.
I find it admirable that the author has written a
3,5 *I have to admit that I was a little bored throughout the first half of this novel, I don´t know exactly why, but I think it was the plot and the many characters that I thought forced somehow.
It was like the author had to have all names involved down on paper no matter what the consequence, and I ended up with a feeling that it wasn´t an important book - which I know it was!The second half was a little better (to me) and I ended up with 3,5 *.
I do remember liking the miniseries when it came out, more for the experience of understanding how lives so different from my own unfolded in times very different from my own.
Cane River is like Roots.
Maybe not quite as non-fictional, but nonetheless a compelling story of the lives across three generations of African-american women in the 1800's and early 1900's.
The detracting thing about this book is that it doesn't set up these issues as issues very well or in any intellectual sense, thus the importance of these issues in shaping future generations is lost to most readers.
3.5 stars. A friend really loved this book, so maybe my expectations were too high. I just didn't love it as much as I thought I would.
Lalita Tademy's family story is so well written, and the product of such excellent research that it could be considered history.
Tademy not only gives us her family saga based upon stories, historical documents, but she gives us a picture of slavery in Louisiana.
This is also a story of the strong women in Tademy's heritage.
Starting with her great-grandmother, Elisabeth, through three generations, the women who chose or were forced to bear children of the French men, the family becomes a lighter skin color.
These were real living people who fostered strong family ties.
It has such an interesting backround in that the author Lalita Tademy, wrote this after quitting her job to research her own family heritage.
The author successfully researched back to her what I think was her great-great-great-great grandmother.
Told from the perspective of her ancestors, spanning three generations.This is a heart-wrenching book; very similar to Uncle Tom's cabin.I think that the fact it is written by a black woman, and about her own heritage and family makes this story more compelling and personal.
Uncle Tom's Cabin did the remarkable job of bringing to light the horrors of slavery and prejudice through a fictional cast of characters.
"Cane River" is a family saga of 4+ generations of African American women from slavery to the 1930s.
The writing is straightforward, even simple; not great.
That gives it a resonance that is deeper than the writing.
The absence of the black men was part of the culture of slavery and its legacy.
The black husbands and wives (or lovers) in "Cane River" are consistently and intentionally separated, leaving the women dependent on their white masters and lovers (who are depicted relatively sympathetically).
This helps explain the chronic weakness of black families--or rather the absence of men.
Cane River covers 137 years of the author's family history, written as fiction, but rooted in research, historical fact and family stories.
It was heartbreaking at times to read the stories of her descendants' families as they were torn apart by slave auctions, abandoned by their fathers who were white, and faced the sentence of illiteracy.
Through Tademy's words and easy-to-read writing style, I could smell the wood fires and cooking greens, see the sweat glisten around the cotton pickers' necks and the dust on their feet, and hear the lilt of the Creole French spoken by the inhabitants of Cane River, Louisiana.
This is a captivating novel, based on the author's own genealogy. Set in antebellum Louisiana, it traces the lives of African Americans, particularly women, from slavery to freedom. Tademy's ancestors lived at a fascinating, if often grim, time in the nation's history, and the novel depicts the many obstacles they faced even after the Civil War, particularly for couples of mixed race. Highly recommended.
Kelly's Favorite.
I enjoyed the historical fiction aspect of this.
It covers a particular time in history that I always love to get lost in.This started out strong.
The balance of both the historical and the fiction seemed to work right out of the gate.
They were married well together, but as the story shifts to different generations, sometimes one or the other gets lost.
It sometimes felt like an info dump, which is not a good thing.
And sometimes it felt like a character parade.
So somewhere after the first generation it became a little confusing.
So 3 stars (I wish it could have been 4.)
This book demonstrated the importance of knowing our history and touched me in ways most books do not because of the narrative of the strength and resilience of black women. It resonated with me deeply because I come from a family of strong black women. This book covered 137 years of the author's incredible family history. Black women have always been strong and these women persevered, no matter what!
Historical fiction Well written novel of one family’s history of challenges and success. Each character comes alive to weave the determination to better themselves.
2.5/5 [A]s much as she would do to protect the new life inside her, their making had nothing to do with how careful she was allowed to be. Judging by the fallout, this work spent too much time on my shelves, but then again, I don't think I would've put up with the level of the quality and structural integrity of the writing even back when I first acquired the book, or even when I first digitally added it to my shelves. I've read critiques of the handling of swinging back and forth between fictio
Judging by the fallout, this work spent too much time on my shelves, but then again, I don't think I would've put up with the level of the quality and structural integrity of the writing even back when I first acquired the book, or even when I first digitally added it to my shelves.
Again, I may have learned more had I read the work when i first acquired it, but this is no children's book, and a few choice quotes can't justify how poorly the fiction elements were handled.
I didn't expect the level of Memoirs of Hadrian, but reading historical fiction shouldn't feel like trawling through poorly disguised plagiarism.
In 1834, nine-year-old Suzette, the "cocoa-colored" house servant of a Creole planter family, has aspirations to read, to live always in a "big house" and maybe even to marry into the relatively privileged world of the gens de couleur libre.
Tademy is candid about her ancestors' temptations to "pass," as their complexions lighten from the color of "coffee, to cocoa, to cream to milk, to lily." While she fully imagines their lives, she doesn't pander to the reader by introducing melodrama or sex.
Photos of and documents relating to Tademy's ancestors add authenticity to a fascinating story."~~~~~~~I picked up this book on a whim and was worried I wouldn't enjoy it due to it's volume.
First we have Elisabeth and then her daughter Suzette, who is the first to know the joys and the heartbreaks of freedom, her daughter Philomene, Philomene's daughter Emily.
They never lose hope, and they stick together, despite the occasional spats.The most interesting thing about Cane River is that most of the things that happen in the book, are, presumably, things that actually happened in real life.
Lalita Tademy also wrote a book about her father's side of her family, which I may or may not read.I read Cane River for Language Arts class, and it did not help my reading experience.
Nevertheless, I really enjoyed Cane River.There are some really disturbing things in this book.
This is the fictionalized account of Tademy's real ancestors over five generations beginning as slaves on a river plantation in Louisiana in the 1830s and continuing through the Civil War, emancipation, Jim Crow laws up through to the 1930s.
Obviously, that independence and education continued through to subsequent generations as Ms. Tademy had risen to a position as VP and General Manager at a Fortune 500 high technology company in Silicon Valley when she decided instead to resign and research her family history.
I picked up this book after I read the author's story in Chicken Soup.
Well, it took her to a two-year long discovery of he lineage, and eventually to a bestseller.The author, Lalita, is of the seventh generation down from Elizabeth in a mixed-race family who went through the tough times of slavery and discrimination from as early as the 17th century.
They may have been looked down upon, but they bore the weight of the hard times and made sure that their children were raised right under whatever circumstances.A good story to draw strength upon.
I found this book on the bargain table and picked it up to read when I needed something in between other books.
I am very thankful that I read this book…I truly enjoyed it.
The author takes the real life people from her family’s genealogy and puts them within a heart breaking and loving story set in the backcountry of Louisiana in the 19th and early 20th centuries.
The story deals extensively with racial relations between whites and blacks because throughout most of the book, the characters are slaves and are treated with utter disrespect, hatred, and distain.
This was a pick for my face to face book club.
I generally either love or hate Oprah's picks.
The author is writing about 4 generations of her family who started out as slaves in the Cane River area of Louisiana.
While there was some interesting explanations about the hierarchy of the people in that area (free people of color, mulattos, Creoles, etc), the characterization a of the main characters fell flat for me (a sentiment shared by other bookclub member).Under full disclosure, I did mostly skim the last sections of the book since book club so that I "finished" before my bookclub meeting.
