https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/852401.The_Little_Sister
Throw in the blackmail angle with Mavis Weld, some thug named Steelgrave, and people getting murdered with ice picks to the neck every other chapter and I had no idea where things were going for a good portion of the book.The trip to the end was confusing but quite pleasurable due to Chandler's sublime prose.
"His nose had been broken and set but hadn't ever been a collector's item" is the first one that springs to mind.I know I saw it with every Raymond Chandler book I review but this is a must read for noir and detective fiction fans.
The rimless glasses gave her that librarian's look." But, Marlowe, you surely must know what she would look like without the glasses, wearing her hair loose and a little make-up and jewelry.
A femme fatale in hiding.
This has always remained my very favorite Raymond Chandler novel.
And as far as The Little Sister goes, there is more than just one femme fatale.
And maybe, according to Raymond Chandler, Hollywood itself is the ultimate femme fatale.
Having his face rubbed in Hollywood culture (or anti-culture), Philip Marlowe turns existential.
Hint: the novel does not have a Hollywood ending.
The titular sister, from the midwest, lands in SoCal looking for her missing brother as, we later learn, they both want to blackmail their Almost Famous Sis who's in Pix. From real life RC borrows a scandal involving mobster Bugsy Siegel who was allowed out of prison for a few days to visit his dentist...see, it's LA where anything goes.
Forget reel life.As Capote said: there are typists and there are writers.
RC was most gloriously A Writer.
I smelled Los Angeles before I got to it.
It smelled stale and old like a living-room that had been closed too long.
از این کتاب نیز در سال 1969 فیلمی به نام « مارلو » ساخته شده؛ که بروس لی نیز نقش کوچکی در آن ایفا کرده است.؛ عنوان فیلم: مارلو؛ کارگردان: پل بوگارت؛ تهیه‌ کننده: سیدنی بکرمن؛ گابریل کاتزکا؛ نویسنده فیلمنامه: استرلینگ سیلیفنت؛ بر اساس رمان: خواهر کوچیکه:؛ اثر: ریموند چندلر؛ بازیگران: جیمز گارنر؛ گایل هانیکات؛ کارول اوکانر؛ ریتا مورنو؛ بروس لی؛ موسیقی: پیتر متز؛ فیلم‌ برداری: ویلیام اچ.
The book begins with an exciting chase scene: Philip Marlowe tries to catch a fly...
The PI, not having any case to work on is so bored that he starts hunting aforementioned fly.
The girl came from Nowhere, Kansas (the actual name of the place is Manhattan - and I do not mean NYC location) and she wants to locate her brother who supposedly lives somewhere in LA.
For this reason I lowered my standard 5 star rating for Philip Marlowe novel by half of the star, but the book firmly deserves the resulting rating 4.5.This review is a copy/paste of my BookLikes one: http://gene.booklikes.com/post/927795...
And something in her eyes that was much older than Manhattan, Kansas.-She relaxed and let her head go back and her lips open a little.
I also understand that Chandler's wife was quite ill during his writing of this book, and you can feel his fatigue with life in L.A. clearly, his rants against the tinsel, throwaway culture that L.A. had become, the poison of money and Hollywood, and his nostalgia for an older version of L.A., somehow cleaner and more hopeful in his mind.The studio cop at the semicircular glassed-in desk put down his telephone and scribbled on a pad.
The very best chapter in all of Chandler.
Marlowe is (always has been and always will be; see Chandler's letter to D.J. Ibberson, dated April 19, 1951) 38, but the author himself at the time of writing was already 61 -- and, quite obviously, none too happy about it.
But one of the principal female characters (I won't pull a spoiler and tell you which one, except to say that Marlow himself points unequivocally to the falsity near the end) is less successful (in terms of being drawn in a totally convincing way).
And that gives to the whole a slightly false note.This is a common problem, by the way, when one reaches, and then suddenly passes middle age.Still, a wholly excellent book, despite its flaws.
Out of a Texas car hop with the literacy of a character in a comic strip it will make an international courtesan, married six times to six millionaires and so blasé and decadent at the end of it that her idea of a thrill is to seduce a furniture mover in a sweaty undershirt.”A woman from small town Kansas travels to California and hires Marlowe to track down her missing brother.
In his quest to locate the man in question, Chandler will take Marlowe into the world of Hollywood and the shady characters that occupy it.In The Little Sister, Chandler packs about ten pounds of plot into a two pound sack.
The Little Sister may not be sitting at the top but it’s certainly a worthy piece of Marlowe legacy.
Η δυσφορία του για τους 'μηχανισμούς' της βιομηχανίας του Χόλυγουντ, αλλά και οι ταραχώδεις σχέσεις του με σκηνοθέτες όπως ο Μπίλυ Ουάιλντερ αντικατοπτρίζονται σε πολλά σημεία του βιβλίου είτε με ιδιόμορφα 'καυστικό' χιούμορ είτε μέσω των 'εσωτερικών' συγκρούσεων και διαλόγων του Μάρλοου, ο οποίος, εδώ, είναι πιο αυθεντικός και ανθρώπινος από κάθε άλλη φορά.Προβληματίζουν και αφοπλίζουν οι ειρωνικές περιγραφές των μεγάρων του Μπέβερλυ Χιλς και του Χόλυγουντ στα οποία κατοικούν άνθρωποι κενοί, ματαιόδοξοι και εγκλωβισμένοι στην εξωτερική εικόνα τους, όσο και η παρατήρηση του συγγραφέα ότι ένα τέτοιο νοσηρό περιβάλλον μπορεί κάποιον που επιθυμεί λίγο από αυτή τη δόξα είτε να τον υποδουλώσει είτε να τον μετατρέψει, ακόμα, και σε ψυχοπαθή δολοφόνο.Σαν σημεία των καιρών, τότε, στα τέλη της δεκαετίας του '40, αναφέρει την έντονη χρήση και το εμπόριο μαριχουάνας, την παράνομη πώληση τηλεφωνικών αριθμών, την καθιέρωση των κόμικς ως μέσου ψυχαγωγίας, τις έντονες επιθέσεις που δεχόταν ο Τζ.
L’ora, il luogo e l’essere amato non si trovano mai insieme … «Stava guardando fuori dalla finestra, che era aperta e offriva la meravigliosa visione del parcheggio della polizia e del retro d’un cartellone pubblicitario.»Una piccola storia ignobile come tante, per dirla con Francesco, ma narrata dal ... Maestro.Una ragazzina di provincia che cerca il fratello scomparso tra le colline di Los Angeles. Philip Marlowe si incarica di ritrovarlo, ma sbatterà il muso nella parte più oscura della sfol
Philip Marlowe si incarica di ritrovarlo, ma sbatterà il muso nella parte più oscura della sfolgorante Hollywood ...«Quasi non avevo un nome.
Ero come il foglio di ieri del calendario, accartocciato in fondo al cestino della carta straccia.».E poi, nel mio personalissimo film, con un Marlowe che parla e si muove (e ti guarda!) come solo Bogey sapeva fare.
lorinbocol …«Vuotai la pipa della cenere ormai fredda e tornai a riempirla prendendo il tabacco da un recipiente di cuoio che mi era stato regalato per Natale da un ammiratore.
Un ammiratore che, per strana coincidenza, portava il mio stesso nome e cognome.»En attendant … Chase …
The usual Marlowe goodness with more flirtatious, suspicious women than usual. Narrated by Elliot Gould. MY GRADE: B plus.

This is yet another wonderful hard boiled, crime noir novel featuring the original gumshoe, Philip Marlowe.
He's hired to find a young woman's missing brother but, this being a Chandler novel, nothing is ever that simple.I think this may have been my favourite of the bunch, so far.
I really liked how well Chandler expressed his protagonist's loneliness, ennui and overall vulnerability.
I feel like I know Marlowe a lot better now, in a way that I didn't from reading the previous four books.
In this story, Marlowe is the latter, everybody else is the former.Very early on in the story his client walks in, a girl highly motivated by money and as mean spirited as such people are.'You can't talk to me like that,' she flared up.
'Pipe smoking is a dirty habit.
People who think money is everything, do.
The ones who are honest are worn out by their honesty, by fighting with so little on their side against people who don't have rules, whose word mean nothing, who think that power is its own right.There are few of those moments in this book where Chandler makes you smile.
It was either the third or the fourth time a dame, in a fit of histrionics kissed Philip Marlowe that I became slightly exasperated.Don't get me wrong, Raymond Chandler is a good writer, his prose is packed with cleverness to the point of overflowing, the dialogue snaps, and everything has the cool sleazy vibe of old time Hollywood.
کلا با شیوه ی رفع و رجوع معما در این داستان حال نکردم؛ نکات گنگ در استدلالای مارلو کم نبود.
البته وقتی آخر سر پیچیدگی طرح رو مد نظر قرار می دادی نمی شد لذت نبری از ایده اشاما این وسط یه عاملی وجود دارد که - سوای خود داستان - خیلی تأثیر گذاشته تو این به دل ننشستن: ترجمه.
اسماعیل فصیح هر اشتباهی که در یک ترجمه ممکن باشه انجام داده: الف.
بین ترجمه هایی که از آثار چندلر خوندم این احتمالا دورترینشون از متن بوده
Like all of the Chandler novels so far, The Little Sister has a plot that is once again overly convoluted and overly complex, but Chandler is in rare form here, having Marlowe spill his guts about the city, his job, the people and even the state of California.Marlowe is back in #615 Cahuenga "stalking the bluebottle fly" that's been buzzing around him for a while, when in walks Orfamay Quest, of whom Marlowe notes "nobody ever looked less like Lady Macbeth." * She's not Marlowe's usual fare -- no make up, and rimless glasses that "gave her that librarian's look." Hailing from the small town of Manhattan, Kansas, Orfamay wants Marlowe to find her brother Orrin.
One of the things I love about Marlowe is how he gets it wrong, or realises too late (as he sinks to the ground, usually), but comes back strong.In this story, Marlowe's client - She was a small, neat, rather prissy-looking girl with primly smooth brown hair and rimless glasses.
As if we didn’t get pushed around enough by the guys in the corner offices, the City Hall gang, the day chief, the night chief, the Chamber of Commerce, His Honor the Mayor in his paneled office four times as big as the three lousy rooms the whole homicide staff has to work out of.
I have read some of Chandler's short stories before, but I believe this was the first novel I'd read from him.
I just lost track of the many characters and their motivations.
Phillip Marlowe is the quintessential private eye, and a great character.
Really, all of the characters were great, I just couldn't keep up with them.If you are a fan of complex murder mysteries in a noir setting, you'll probably love this one.
I still want to read more of Chandler's work even if this one wasn't exactly my cup of tea.
بدک نبود.پیچشهای جالبی داشت که البته به نظر من زیاده از حد و ناملموس بود.هرچند، نشانگر این هم بود که چشمه الهام نویسنده خشک شده، چرا که بسیاری از گره ها و معما ها و یا حل معماها، خواننده را عجیب به یاد خواب گِران و بانوی دریاچه میاندازد.به هر روی، مارلو هست و از کلاسیک های سبک جدید ژانر معمایی و خواندنش خالی از لطف نیست.
A couple of murders later, Marlowe notices that the rather haughty, but vulnerable actress Mavis Weld also seems to be entangled in the machinations of the small-fry blackmailer, and he tries his best to protect her from the gangster’s wrath.As usual, the plot is just an excuse for enjoying Chandler’s beautiful and vivid prose, which gives birth to similes like these:”a Charvet scarf you could have found in the dark by listening to it purr.”“The boss mortician fluttered around making elegant little gestures and body movements as graceful as a Chopin ending.
This, however, was not the only characteristic of Wilder that Chandler took ill, one other being that Wilder had asked him to shut a window without saying “please”.Still, Chandler also shows that he knows how films work, and he does it like this:”’I always wonder why people pay blackmailers.
Sin duda Chandler es una gran creador de personajes. Qué grande Marlowe. Este libro lo tiene todo, y eso que yo no soy muy de policiaca. :)
One of my all time favorite writers.The Little Sister deals with a young woman who is trying to find her brother and of course Marlow is hired to do the job.
The story is great but I really love about Chandler is his rightfully cynical view of a corrupt world.
The dames are bad, store owners are bad, the coppers are bad, no one is all good, just like in the real world.
Marlow seems to be looking for love but deep down, he knows he'll never find it.
But much like Marlow, I'll just have to be happy with what I've got.
Rambling plot sometimes hard to follow, BUT the P.I. Marlowe bittersweet voice teems throughout. Famous metaphors work well. The wrap-up is pretty decent. This book skewers the Hollywood glitterati.
Poniendo la trastienda de Hollywood como trasfondo, Chandler aprovecha sus experiencias personales para realizar un ejercicio maduro y bien presentado. El clásico caso aparentemente trivial que lleva a abrir las puertas de historias que esconden cicatrices, con personajes limpiamente esbozados y diálogos esculpidos. Una de las mejores entregas del detective Marlowe.
There were so many characters in this that about the 76% point I just lost the main threads of the case looking for Orrin.
But Hollywood is so distasteful and the characters so mucky in this one that it was a 3 for me.
Marlowe is at a cynical crux point, older/ darker spirited by several degrees.
Too many characters of stereotype old Hollywood loaded each and every one with a superficial gloss coating the stinky corruption; it is just not all that interesting to me.
Hollywood's movie industry just seems too phony for me in any age, regardless; it just murders my interest of depth to embed in the characters.
That was how this hard-boiled noir classic read for me from about half way through to the end.
That’s Miss Quest, thank you very much and on her "smooth brown hair was a hat that had been taken from its mother too young.” And of course she considers Marlowe crude and ungentlemanly.
Although it’s not considered Chandler’s best effort, it was satisfying to me especially for the multitude of ways Chandler describes the mouth and lips of the many characters.
I just finished a Raymond Chandler, the writer who created the genre...just finished with the real deal so I’ll wait awhile for any wannabe hard-boiled noirs.
It's almost as though the gloves are off, Chandler is weary off all the saccharine hypocrisy of the world and he calls it out as he sees it and it makes for spectacular reading.The corrupt city with its cynical cops, decadent dames with their starlet sisters and off course Marlowe himself round off an impressive cast.
The plot is turned and twisted so many times on itself, following it to its shocking conclusion is a rewarding struggle in itself.
But for me more than the characters and plot, a Chandler book is an excuse to read his prose and that's where it truly excels.
I like the way Raymond Chandler writes--his books have an easy flow, and every so often you run into a great simile, like "The smell of old dust hung in the air as flat and stale as a football interview," or "She jerked away from me like a startled fawn might, if I had a startled fawn and it jerked away from me." If you just surrender to the flow, you can overlook his ridiculous characterizations of women, and the great unwieldiness of his plots.
Marlowe embroiled in 40's LA noir.
