https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77736.The_Short_Victorious_War
I think I've made up my mind about the Honor Harrington books.
Three star books are good.
The Honor Harrington books are the book equivalent of big budget Hollywood action flicks.
There are gargantuan space battles between the good guys and the bad guys.
Like big budget Hollywood action movies, the Honor Harrington books lack meaningful character development and a true spark of originality.
Really?!)Even more aggravating is the author's shameless borrowing from history.
Gee, what are the odds?) I fully expect that the next books will have a reign of terror and a resurgent Havenite navy along with a Napoleon-like figure.
Fun. Good.
In the first book of the series, I was thrilled to get to know all the misfit characters and see how Honor won them over by being just plain awesome and win actual fights at super-long odds, but the same kind of formula doesn't quite work for me a second and third time.She's already an established badass.
Nothing short about it, and far from victorious.I like the idea...
She's not an actual underdog now.Still, she pulls a rabbit out of her hat again, so all's fair in love and war.Except, I'm not quite sure I'm a big fan of the writing.
The characters are well drawn and the political situations if not deep and intricate are recognizable and told in a way that will either bring a nod of the head, a chuckle, or possibly tick you off if you disagree too strenuously with Weber.Honor's career has moved forward in spite of a few glitches...like the enmity of certain powerful members of the Peerage and some of her superiors who think she's somewhat of a loose cannon...no big deal.
Weber weaves the military aspects into the science fiction aspects well and works to make sure the science in the books is at least nominally within the realm of theory.
But for now good reads that get a 4 star rating.
Honor continues to shine & this fairly short book opens several cans of worms that can really extend the series.
Much of the information was contained in the first book & shouldn't have been.
I skimmed it, but it's not really needed.The map in the front of the book is informative - too much so.
Don't look at the legend too closely as it contains spoilers & is the same map that it contained in the following book.
The map let's you know the outcome a bit too soon, not that it is any great surprise.Again, Honor shines.
The Short Victorious War is the third book in the Honor Harrington series and covers the plans by the People's Republic of Haven's attempts to initiate a war with the Manticorians in order to distract their own internal political grumblings against a common enemy, as well as, hopefully, win the war to refill the republic's emptying coffers.
That said, some of the political intrigue in the Havenite Republic are quite good fun to read.The final 5% of the book is some kind of beginning of an Honorverse appendix - Honor Harrington's Navy.
1) People who irrationally hate Honor.
2) People who irrationally love Honor.
and 3) People who get their butt kick by honor to establish her perfection.
The enemy has to dedicate just enough forces to make it look hopeless for Honor, but not enough to actually beat her.
The Tactical Combat is well handled in space, and poorly handled planet side.
However, all of the space combat is dependent on a series of weapons and technological abilities that are unbalanced, and seem to appear and disappear at need to serve the plot.I recommend that everyone go read one of the Starfire books, and skip this one.
This book isn't bad, it's a little better than okay.The second book in this series (The Honor of the Queen) looks at a female officer forced to work in a culture where women are second class citzens.
Jane is disliked by some of her male collegues because she is new, and because she isn't a "soft" "girly" woman.
If she was a man, it wouldn't be a problem, but because she doesn't act like a woman, it is.
It isn't quite the same as saying, "girls stink" but such thinking is still sexism.
I just finished The Short Victorious War by David Weber and I'm starting to notice a pattern here:1.
The Short Victorious War does provide some insight into where Haven may be evolving with the political and social unrest, and has some excellent battle scenes and tactics.
It's fairly clear at this point that, while the main assaults featured here are critical at this point in the war, it's really all about Haven's attempt to pull the trigger and not take the blame; Honor's involvement is, at best, tangential.I've started Field of Dishonor, and it's evident Weber is going to concentrate on Politics for a while and attempt to make Honor's character more resonant and sympathetic to the reader.
Ça va péter pour de vrai ?Dans ce troisième tome, Weber passe beaucoup de temps à nous expliquer tous les aspects politiques de son histoire, plongeant plus dans les conflits internes à Havre.
Cette guerre est d’ailleurs montée de toutes pièces par les politiques pour calmer ces bouseux de prolétaires qui arrêtent pas d’embêter les riches, au moins avec un bon vieux conflit patriotique ils seront distraits.
Ici on a toujours cette construction en deux temps, mais on a l’impression que la première partie prend beaucoup plus de place, on arrive sur une seconde partie « badaboum » bien moins palpitante, limite anecdotique.
However, Honor does find some romance with another officer, and surprisingly, she does have character development.There aren't many battles in the beginning and middle.
The middle is so focused on the strategy, from multiple point of views, and I wasn't very invested in the merry-go-round of characters driving the narrative.
Once it got to the actual battle, it felt like a re-hash of the strategy portions.I really liked Honor's character development.
If you know even a little bit of French history, you can guess what that character's about.I preferred the previous book, but I think there is potential if the battles don't become such a copy of the strategy.
This is the weakest link in the series so far.The clash in Yeltsin Star has started the conflict between Haven Republic and Manticore Kingdom.
The decision maker is torn between making a defense of an offense.In this novel also, a full scale squadron battle is staged.
To be honest, this book is the beginning of the full scale conflict between Haven and Manticore.
It is just somehow, the emotional tone is out-scaled by the Grayson-Masadan conflict.So, only 3 STARS.Note: I like it that the info dump is separated from the main part of the novel and put at the back, so that it does not disturb the flow of the story.
I swear these books are as bad as chips. Can't eat (read/listen to) just one! Johnson read this one much better. The politics got better as did the war & personal situations. Made for a great story.Weber is still a bit repetitious & tends to obscure rather than make points through his use of different units of measurement for acceleration. This is unfortunate, but I just went with it. On to the next after listening to another of London's stories.
Honor Harrington 3 by David Weber5/5 starsSynopsis:In this book the Republic of Haven tries to use a war against Manticoe to hush up their problems with their home affairs.
The end, however, seemed a bit hectic, as if he tried to push everything into this book but didn’t have the space for it.
I really liked Honors development in this novel its shown in a really lovely way.
…about the worldIt’s shown with its entire problems and political use of tactics.
I liked the way havens problems were portrayed.
I think it must be quite interesting to live there!…about the styleIt’s amazing!
Honor and her crew begin putting the ship through its paces, but we know that it won't be long before military action is required and Honor fights again against the forces of The People's Republic of Haven.David Weber has done a fine job of directly transfering Napoleonic naval warfare stories into a science fiction setting, sailing ships becoming space ships.
Echoing O'Brian, some of his books spend far too much telling the political backstory and far less time in giving us real action sequences.
Honor was awesome.
The Haven thing finals comes to some sort of head and Havenite butts are kicked (at the usual enormous cost).Honor also gets some personal advancement (beyond her career) and while it's welcome, there comes the criticism: Weber seems unable to handle romance.
Some people probably considered that a plus in military sci-fi, but it feels a bit like we're reading half the story.
Something quite so monumental in her personal development could, maybe, have done with a bit more time.Anyway, good read.
1/3 of the book: nothing happened.2/3 of the book: only minor incidents. Some people who did appear in the book before died. But we have nice battle at the end that makes reader feel happy.
There is some development in the characters, but overall quite anti-climactic. I am also not sure I like the the implicit ideological assumptions the book is covertly endorsing...
It also gives an insight as to why Haven has needed to conquer so much of the surrounding stellar real estate simply to continue to exist.In the previous two novels a lot was made of Manticore superior equipment, and while their forces are still shown as superior, I was pleased to see that their belief in their own superiority made them complacent.
However, once again, I was pleased by the way that Weber showed Honor, and her Admiral, working through how to make a bad situation in Hancock into something functional.I also enjoyed the way that Weber gave more background to Honor’s character in this novel.
During reading I have previously expressed a desire for a reduction in the amount that Haven's side of the story is expressed, because as I read about Manticore/Honor responding to situations I have at times felt as it is a little pointless to know the enemy's view point when your main character does not.
However, that said, I did enjoy some aspects of Haven's point of view during this book, and the throwbacks to the previous novels contained within those sections.It does everything the blurb on the back says that it will and then gives you just a little bit more.
First of all, the plot lacked enough focus to me: on the one side, we have Havenites plotting their war, on the other we have Manticore basically being hight and mighty, and in the middle of this is Honor, who, despite having nothing really to do, is still the embodiment of virtue and perfection (which, I have to say, by this point it's starting to get a bit old...)So while the previous books had actual reasons to actively engage the characters (or character...) in the plot, "The Short Victorious War" feels like it's just drifting in space with no direction.
The third book in the Honor Harrington Series this book keeps up the tradition set by the first two.
Although it does have some points where it drops off, it is an all-around good read for fans for serial science fiction.We are back shipside after having large portions of the last book with Honor planet bound.
We get almost as much intrigue here as we did in the previous installment in the series coupled with larger scale space combat.Honor continues to be one of the strongest and most interesting female characters I have read in a long time.
Weber usually makes it a point to bring back reoccurring characters in her series and this book is no different.
I just thought of one more3) Weber normally does a great job of introducing too many people, then having you know and care for them by the end of the novel.
There were some I knew by the end, but both in Honor's battle group and the political intrigue in Haven, I had a hard time knowing who was who.The book has an addendum with great technical information on the evolution of shipbuilding and weaponry which I highly recommend.
Great way to end the already great story with information many of us readers are trying to understand.
Honorverse #3 sees the Big Show kick off, as Manticore and the People's Republic of Haven finally start the war that they've been dancing around-and as always Honor is right in the center, commanding the state-of-the-art Battlecruiser Nike in defense of critical forward base.
Good intelligence on the part of the peeps and command errors above leave Honor's squadron badly outgunned by Dreadnoughts, and it's up to her tactical brilliance and guts to save the day.That said, this is where the series starts to bloat.
The main action is short, almost too short, and the narrative wanders between Honor commanding starships, falling in love, and facing down old enemies, and 'big picture' strategy discussions on Manticore and Haven.
Some of the strategic stuff broke suspension of disbelief (view spoiler)[(like why the Manticorians 
Séria pokračuje celkom vydareným tempom.
Do príbehu sa dostávajú nové postavy, pokračuje konflikt medzi bielymi a čiernymi klobúkmi (planetárnymi frakciami), len miesto koní majú trochu väčšie loďky a miesto koltov lejzrové oné.
Vesmírne bitky, politika.
Love-story.
Viac psychologických analýz :-(.
Snaha o dotvorenie chladnej hrdinky o aspekt "ženskosti" (citovej empatie).
Dúfam, že v ďalších dieloch sa z hlavnej hrdinky nestane Sue-Ellen.
A je to cielene patriotické: Honor je literárnou metaforou vlastenectva a morálneho konania, za ktoré je ako v rozprávke odmeňovaná.
Pri niektorých scénach mi v hlave zneje aj príslušná orchestrálna filmová hudba (a nad skafandrom vidím hlavu Bruca Willisa s hviezdnatou vlajkou v pozadí).

Been a while since I last read an Honor Harrington book and I'd forgotten how much I liked them. This one had more of a personal edge, delving a little more into Honor's past and the focus on her relationships made her seem more human. More politics in this book too, which provided an interesting backstory. Then of course there are the epic space battles which Weber does so well! A great read overall.
Had to skim through a lot of the battle tactics .....  I know, I know, this is military sci-fi  but still, all those moves and counter-moves and guessing games get a bit too tiresome after a while. A bit more personal development on Honor's front - from an unlikely source. But hardly any ninja treecat action!I'm glad that all the technical stuff got put into an appendix...
Pretty much the same formula. But a little bit more from the Peeps perspective, which most of the time I find to be just irritating. A moment of happiness for Honor, a lot of death for everyone else. We do get to meet Michelle Henke. But not a whole lot of Grayson in this one, nor a whole lot from Nimitz. But not too much on the technology or the battle, perhaps just enough. Call it 3.5 of 5.
Not quite as good as the first two books in the series, but still a rollicking adventure! Honor Harrington is one of the best female characters out there and she doesn't disappoint. The political machinations in Haven and Manticore are also a great asset to this series. Can't wait for Book #4.
