https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/327841.Roll_Jordan_Roll
This should not wholly detract from the tremendous scholarship that went into this seminal study, however, and the work which has built upon it in the more than quarter century following its original publication.Genovese’s Marxism, while it does invigorate the text with a strong theory and consistent framework, also deceives the reader into looking at slavery as though through a monocle: the subject is only clear through a very narrow sphere of influence – that of an unfree underclass dominated by paternalism and religion – and interpreted as a monolithic institution.
Roll Jordan Roll is an extensive chronicle of the lives of African American slaves in the United States. It smashes the myth of a defeated, simple people without a culture. It details how a captive group of people from several different cultures retained many of their own traditions while adapting to their very difficult conditions. Rich with examples of how these strong people not only survived, but performed everyday acts of resistance, often with an artistic flair, this book will forever change your thinking about the other forefathers of the United States who permanently changed our culture.
Since I have my graduate students in agricultural history read this work, I figured it was time I reread it myself.
Me, well, in 1974 I was full of vinegar and excited by the times, whereas today, I read the book reflectively, and identify with its author.
As for the country, although there are usages and tropes in Roll, Jordan that may cause discomfort today, our sense of what slavery was, of how African legacies survived in North America, and of who we are as a people is vitally grounded in the interpretations propounded by Genovese.
An outstanding work in its scope and balance, I almost feel as though it should be required reading for all Americans to understand the history of the racial difficulties that persist today.
Genovese has explored the social and economic interactions between each of the groups of slaves, free negroes, slaveholders, overseers, and drivers, household servants, and poor whites and has done so on in areas of religion, sexuality, education, politics, food, drink, morale, etc.
And all with a very balanced view.
It is guilty of two great sins: -1- it forces facts into models and -2- it makes absurd efforts to be politically correct.An historian is supposed to seek the facts and let them lay where they fall.
This view is of course directly opposed to that of Liberal historians who have always argued that slavery impedes the development of a capitalism by preventing the free mobility of labour and by diverting money that should properly have been invested in equipment into the ownership slaves.
I still like the song and intensely dislike Genovese's prose.Roll, Jordan, Roll is an absolutely dreadful history of slavery.
I read this in college and the way slaves were described as being invested in this system seemed even then such a shallow stereotypic view.This work seems to reinforce the stereotype of slavery that includes the post-slavery construct that portrayed slaves as happy with paternalism, welcoming the system of slavery and most humane when under its thrall.
However an examination of slave narratives and the work of other historians and researchers who have added to our understanding of slavery suggest that this work should be viewed as dated and limited.
This was one heck of a read when I was in the Graduate program for History at San Jose State. Not only does it gives the reader a view of slavery from a slaves point of view but it does not take a paternalistic view. Yes they were slaves, and considered chattel but even in such a brutal and horrible system, Genovese shows that beneath the labels slaves were people. With dreams, love and even power. An amazing book.
It is a book with basically one big idea, but it provides a brilliant way to think about American slavery and relationship between masters and sons.
In all of these cases, the more the slaves bought into the dependence relationship, the less likely they were to really challenge the regime.One of the greatest strengths of this book is that it gets you into the mindset of the master class.
It was a fascinating paradox: the more the slaves did to reconcile themselves (not necessarily permanently) to their status, the more stable the entire regime became.This is a much more effective argument about slave resistance than other books I have read.
Eugene Genovese’s 1974 work Roll, Jordan, Roll is an exploration of the ideological framework that mediated the relationship between slaves and slaveholders.
Paternalism dictated that slaveholders accepted duties to their slaves concurrently with power over them, while blacks accepted the paternalist frame, restating the duties of their masters as personal rights.
The claim that slaves bought into this system on a deep level, accepting the identity which masters pressed on them while reconceptualizing parts of the relationship, is central to Genovese’s view of slavery as a system of thought.
To the extent that Genovese explores the worldview and ideology of slaveholders his work is valuable.
Despite being 800 pages long, this book is not in the slightest bit bloated nor was it a wearisome read (which is rare for a history book of this length). I have been somewhat prejudiced against Eugene Genovese for his later apologies for the slaveholders and straw-man depictions of abolitionists. In his earlier work, however, he struck a good balance between appropriate empathy and critical discrimination. Roll, Jordan, Roll is, and will always be viewed as, the outstanding social history of the world the slaves made.
This book is the definitive popular history of American slavery. It's scholarly credentials are impeccable, as are it's marxist tendencies. The analysis of the southern Paternalism is what makes this book worth reading. Good history enlarges so your understanding of things beyond the primary subject matter. Genovese makes you see the South as a metaphor for the relations of power as they exist in the society as a whole.
Genovese's thesis on paternalism and slavery changed my perspective on the institution in America. This is a compelling read for anyone studying the antebellum South. His ideas on paternalism, coupled with the Moynihan report totally changed my outlook on slavery as a whole and its impact on our society today.
Genovese lays out a pretty good case for paternalism. Even if you don't buy his argument, its a pretty comprehensive account of America's "original sin"...slavery.
Extremely well-researched look at the everyday life of American slavery.
A definitive description of what life was like under slavery. As close to a five star as a book can be without being one, but Genovese's writing can be a bit clunky at times.
Still the beginning for all slavery studies.
called it 'the best book ever written about American slavery'" while historian Eric Foner held that "the buying and selling of slaves could hardly be considered paternalistic; parents do not normally sell their children."Sounds to me like a semantic disagreement."Row, Jordan, Row" notes specially trained dogs, often owned by poor whites, tracked runaways, maiming and killing if not pulled quickly from the tracked slaves.
A. Argument: The “slaves laid the foundation for a separate black national culture while enormously enriching American culture as a whole.” (xv) This separate black national culture has always been American, even though it was based on African origins. Masters and slaves shaped each other and cannot be analyzed in isolation. This book examines the black struggle to survive spiritually and physically. This book concerns itself with the quality of life which defies measurement. Genovese accepts Fo
Slaveholders established their hegemony over the salves through the development of an elaborate web of paternalistic (The implicit bargain in which the master’s accepted responsibility for the slave’s welfare such as food housing, and medical care--in return for their labor) relationships, “but the slaves place in that hegemonic system reflected deep contradictions, manifested in the dialectic of accommodation and resistance”3.
The slaves accepted paternalism and in doing so were able to resist and change it (Gramsci)2.
The white preachers were one of the main vehicles in which to control black religion.
Many white and black children played together7.
6).Another source of resistance was embedded in the very relationship between overseer and slaves (p.
Also the overseer was constrained as to the lengths he could go to in inflicting brutal punishment by the need to maintain morale in order to keep slave production high.
The result of this vicious circle was that masters appeared to their slaves as hypocritical, even weak.
Cotton production proceeded at a different pace than factories, and the nature of slave labor and the compromises it entailed were lost on the Northerners as they occupied the South after the war.
Genovese shows that slaves could improve their conditions slightly by negotiating with and flattering their masters, and that there are records of white slave-owners who cared about their slaves.
The author argues that the individualistic nature of the master-slave relationship undermined the ability of slaves to form a collective political consciousness, although this claim is hard to square with the speed with which freed slaves created political and community groups after emancipation.
In his recognition of slaves’ agency, even if on an individual basis, Genovese shows that slaves were not simply victims, as earlier historians like Stanley Elkins suggested.
He harps too much on the agency of white masters and bizarrely denies the existence of black politics in bondage.
Roll, Jordan, Roll is absolutely a must read for anyone interested in a full understanding of American slavery and its effects. Genovese is a fantastic writer of prose, and the work is fully accessible to the lay reader in spite of its impeccable scholarship and status within the field of history. I cannot recommend this book enough.
Took me forever to finish this book. Encyclopedic in its detail, far more information than I was able to absorb. More textbook than entertainment, and I definitely learned a great deal of new information. Interesting read for the committed historian.
A classic.
Genovese does a clever job linking black slaves and white masters in their mutually dependent, though admittedly slanted, relationship that produced a unique "world" known as the antebellum South.
This is not to say that slavery was not an exploitive system with moral values that are unquestionably out of whack and inappropriate, but rather, it is to shift the focus from a generally agreed upon contemporary view--slavery was and is deplorable--to a more nuanced examination of historical change and development.By examining concepts such as "paternalism" and "christianity" in relation to slavery in the southern United States, Genovese demonstrates a complicated system of pain felt at different levels first by the slaves--who were abused and exploited in diverse ways--and second by the masters who were forced by the Civil War's outcome to realize their paternalistic, moral relationship with their black slaves was complete fantasy.

This is very helpful in that it treats the slaves and slaveholders with the necessary level of seriousness as social subjects whose activity was essential to reproducing the society they lived in.And yet, one feels that in drawing such an organic picture of the South, whose social system he proclaims to be evil at the beginning of the book, Genovese is too eager to erase the fierce pressures and contradictions slave society was subject to during the century or so of its coherent existence.
http://unqualified-reservations.blogs...Modern Americans have enormous difficulty in grasping hierarchical social structures.
The suggesting that slavery could ever be or have been, as Aristotle suggests, natural and healthy, is like suggesting to the Hitler Youth that it might be cool to make some Jewish friends.
Their idea of Jews is straight out of Jud Süss.
Our idea of slavery is straight out of Uncle Tom's Cabin.
(If you want an accurate perspective of American slavery, I recommend Eugene Genovese's Roll, Jordan, Roll, which is a little Marxist but only superficially so.
No work like it could be written today.)~Mencius Moldbug, "An Open Letter to Progressives"http://unqualified-reservations.blogs...
I only read about two hundred pages of this massive book, and I probably should return to it someday.
For now, suffice it to say, this is a very interesting book that stirs up a lot of passionate debate about the antebellum South.
(besides pointing out that it really doesn't examine racism, which is a pretty serious problem with it) People tend to write that it doesn't tell the whole story, that it is only applicable to a small corner of slavery, that everything was much more complicated.
This is another book that anyone who really wants to examine this period in American history should probably read at some point.
Geovese's account of American slavery encompasses many aspects of daily life, and is praiseworthy for its attempt to establish the agency of enslaved individuals in shaping their own identity within the confines of their social condition.
However, despite being a work of ground-braking scholarship, Genovese's work remains limited.
Although, Genevese pays attention to the variety and variances in slave life, too often his history seems to be floating without anchor in time and place, as if the condition of slavery was consistent and unchanged through its existence in America and in all regions.
I only read this because of my WEM group!
I'm glad I did, even though it was a MEGO book.The author made the point that in order to understand the history of slavery, one must understand the concept of slaves and masters being interdependent.
What was interesting was that not only did whites shape the world of the blacks, but blacks shaped the white's world.
Slaves also developed their own culture which can be seen still in some ways today.
There were many letters and oral history the author used to make his point.
My favorite parts were the slaves own words and views.
