https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/301826.You_Belong_to_Me
This is a pretty good love/hate story that goes right up to the bitter end of the novel but works and doesn’t get redundant.
The sexual tension and the realization that they love each other is well-done but you’re expecting some good sex and it’s just not there.
It’s as if there’s the potential of a Kleypas with a good story and how it flows, but it just misses the mark and seems like all the rest.If you’re looking for a “cleaner” kind of love/hate romance you may like this one.
And whip wielding skills...I read this in time for Wonder Woman - that's unexpected and neat.What didn't work for me :1 I hated Vasili.He thought all women were fair game, he kept trying to seduce women after meeting Alex, he boasted about his mistresses - he had 4, I think.He was mean, cruel, judgemental and comes across as shallow.You don't take him seriously and are annoyed by his plans.
Or thrown to hungry wild animals.Read it for the laughs and a girl with nerves of steel.
I read this years ago and had read another Johanna Lindsey book recently (Tender Is the Storm) that made me nostalgic for more JL books.
This one was one of my favorites.
It reminds me a bit of The Taming of the Shrew.
I love the enemies to lovers theme and how Alex acts like a barbarian with the way she eats and how she doesn't bathe so that Vasili will call off the betroth.
Pretty funny!
I'll have to get the first book of this series (Once a Princess) on Kindle so I can read that one as well (since I don't think I'll be able to find my paperback copy).
I'm a very forgiving reader, I swear I am. I go into books ready to find something likable about everyone. But then stuff like this happens: “Yell at me all you like, sweetheart, only the next time you want to get physical, you can be sure I won’t hit back,” he promised.“You won’t?He shook his head slowly. “No. I’ll take you off in the bushes and make love to you instead.”She had to be crazy not to try to change this subject. “Why didn’t you this time?”“I believe in fair warning—when your choice
Vasili kisses Alex despite her lack of consent (and, of course, when he kisses her, she forgets that she didn't want him to, so lust dazed that she is), he would not shut up about her breasts, he slaps her, although "not hard", before that charming rape threat, he keeps trying to fuck with other women during their trip to Cardinia, he tells her she's had a gaggle of lovers, takes her virginity then gets angry because she didn't correct his misapprehension...
When, at 25 he gets tired of her defiant behavior- he decides to use a fake ploy, forging papers that fix her betrothal to his late close friend's son.Valisi, the playboy with insanely beautiful lion like looks has always has it easy with woman, and he expects his to be countess to be the same.
He has always had success in the past, but the challenges he faces with Alexandra change him a lot through the course of the book.Always happy to meet Stefan and Tanya, along with other characters like Serge and Lazar.I especially adored the last half of the book which had sass, angst, baby and a HEA.Safe4.5/5
THE BOOK ABOUT THE MOST BEAUTIFUL GUY IN THE WORLD WHO GETS THE GREATEST GIRL IN THE WORLD AND IT MAKES ME SO HAPPY. THE END._________________________________________________September 16th, 2015Yep, as awesome as ever. CAN I GET A WHITE HORSE NOW?___________________________________________July 2018 STILL FRIGGIN LOVE THIS
dnf 73%עלבון לאינטיליגנציה
But after reading it a 2nd time and reading the first book of the series, I fell in love with Vasili and Alex all over again.
This is the basic love-hate, forced betrothal, rake hero, tough heroine type of story.
Vasili, aka the peacock (Tatiana and my favorite nickname), aka Petroff as Alex calls him, is a complete womanizer/player with the prettiest face in the entire world (seems like).
So the H/H meet each other in the worst possible situation and decide to pretend to be despicable so the other would call off the betrothal.Obviously, they have great chemistry, but Vasili really needs to be brought a few pegs down.
Με αυτό θέλω να πω πως σύμφωνα με τα σημερινά δεδομένα μπορεί να μην έχει να προσφέρει κάτι το νέο ή το εξαιρετικά πρωτότυπο, ωστόσο, για την εποχή του, υποθέτω πως ήταν αρκετά ανατρεπτικό και σύγχρονο.Έχουμε, λοιπόν, μία κλασσική ιστορία που ο κεντρικός της άξονας στηρίζεται στην ιδέα της σχέσης αγάπης-μίσους, από εκείνες που μπορεί να είναι κάπως τετριμμένες, αλλά που αν ο συγγραφέας ξέρει να χειριστεί καλά το υλικό που έχει στη διάθεσή του, μπορεί να προσφέρει ένα τελικό αποτέλεσμα παιχνιδιάρικο κι ευχάριστο.
Και ακριβώς αυτό συμβαίνει στην προκειμένη περίπτωση, με την Lindsey να θέτει στον πυρήνα της δύο κεντρικούς ήρωες που όσο διαφέρουν μεταξύ τους, άλλα τόσα κοινά έχουν και, κυρίως, αντιμετωπίζουν τη ζωή και τις σχέσεις με το ίδιο σκεπτικό.
I read it long, long ago and loved it, especially the heroine. Absolutely adored her. :)
H άποψή μου για το βιβλίο στο site "Book City" και τον παρακάτω σύνδεσμο: Ανήκεις σε μένα
Sexist manwhore H who's also clearly a rapist in the making. [x](h is a virgin, of course.)
3.5this might be the first old-school romance i actually enjoyed and you just know it would be an enemies-to-lovers marriage of convenience type........and they were so!!
and in love!!
it was infuriating and i was Into Itand when he entered the ballroom all gorgeous and every woman around was fainting and alexandra was all fluttery and happy and in love but then he opened his mouth and immediately she was like im gonna have to kill this fuckerit was [clenches fist] beautiful but just.
when you have russian characters.
a russian setting.
and how u could not call alexandra sasha is beyond me
Quite a bit better than Once a Princess but still not that great.
The "hero", Vasili is a male whore, to be blunt.
And apparently, this isn't his fault because of the fact that he's so handsome, women throw themselves at him.
What is a poor, helpless man to do?
That's just plain disgusting.
Maybe it was the idea that when a female offers, a rich handsome man cannot possibly refuse her favors.
And yet, despite all this bed-hopping, Vasili is somehow still appealing, perhaps due to his ready sense of the ridiculous.
Alexandra, however, was just plain irritating.
You Belong to Me is a fun and lighthearted road-romance. I liked it better than its prequel, Once a Princess. Vasili and Alexandra's attempts to force the other to break off their betrothal are amusing. However, as fun as these antics are, I would have liked to have seen both Vasili and Alexandra express deeper feelings for each other. Any intense emotions, if they existed, seemed buried underneath the competition and physical desire. I do believe they fell in love; it just wasn't passionate enough for me.
Още при раждането на Александра двамата са коментирали, колко би било приятно да свържат семействата си обвързвайки двете си деца с годеж, и макар никога да не са предприели стъпки за това, барона решава да изфабрикува годежен договор, който да изправи на наследника на приятеля си, решен, че честта ще задължи двамата млади да спазят изискванията на договора.Васили е глава на охраната на краля на Кардина и негов близък приятел и братовчед.
Така двамата придружавани от свитите си, поемат дългия, покрит със сняг път през планините обратно към Кардиниа, всеки решен да се държи с другия по възможно най-неприятният начин, за да се принудят един друг да развалят годежа, и все пак, принудителната близост и проблемите с които се сблъскват ще ги сближат повече отколкото би могло да стане при по-различни обстоятелства.Обожавам тази книга.
At twenty-five her dad decides to fake a betrothal agreement to his friends son.
Alex sees what type of man she is suppose to marry, one who flirts while on the property of his betrothed.
Alex does everything she can to try and get Vasili to break the agreement, she eats like a pig and tries to put out a very unlady like image.
Which is not like her.On the other hand Vasili does act like himself, flirting with the serving wenches even more than usual in hopes that Alex will break the betrothal.
Hmm.....asli bingung mau komen gimana dan mau kasih bintang berapa.....Apa harapan gw kelewat tinggi ya ma ni buku ??Awalnya menarik sih, gw menikmatin banget 'adu muLut' antara VasiLi & Alex, dialognya asik...Ya gemes, sebeL, ya lucu, konyoL juga liat apa yg mereka lewatin bersama selama perjalanan dari Rusia ke Cardinia.....Cuman gw kok ngerasa ada yang kurang dari cerita ini,entah apanya...Pas kelar baca semalem, gw ngerasa "Loh ?
Udah,cuma gitu aja ?"Brasa lagi panas2nya, trus Alex minggat ke Inggris, trus intermezo dikit dlm perburuan 'suami cadangan', VasiLi dateng, ajak pulang, nikah, selesai !!!Esmonya gw asli ga dapet....Kurang panjang ????entah lah....Masih mending kisah si Stefan-Tanya deh, meski tetep aja....endingnya brasa 'jatoh' juga...
I love the opening scene in this book with the malehero. It is a stereotypical historical romance womanizerhero scene lol.
Alexandra Rubilov adalah seorang gadis tomboy, kaget karena mengetahui dirinya sudah ditunangkan sejak bayi dan calon tunangannya sudah secepat kilat menjemputnya.
Vasili jengkel tetapi lama kelamaan kepincut juga dengan gadis bengal yang seksi ini, yang tidak bisa dikendalikan dan temperamental ini.Kelucuan-kelucuan pertengkaran-pertengkaran diantara mereka memang benar-benar menyulut tawa dan gairah mereka satu sama lain.
Yang menarik adalah ada scene berantem Alexandra melempar Vasili dengan barang-barang yang ada di sekitarnya dan kemudian mereka bercinta.
Yang membuat saya ngakak dan dejavu adalah adegan ini ditiru ke miniseri "The Tudor" dimana Charles Brandon (Henry Cavill) juga dilempari barang-barang oleh Princess Margaret (Gabrielle Anwar) dan setelah itu mereka bercinta diatas meja.
perjodohan itu juga adalah rekayasa ayah Alex agar alex yang si tomboi cantik pecinta kuda dan juga suka balapam kuda, menjadi wanita terhormat sesungguhnya,nah, sama seperti once a princess yg menceritakan perjalanan kedua tokoh utama dari amerika ke cardinia, cerita ini juga sebagian menderitakam perjalanan vasili dkk, tanpa stefan, menjemput Alex dari russia yang tidak tahu apa2 mengenai perjodohan itu.berkisah ttg segala usaha yang mereka kerahkan untuk membatalkan perjodohan sampai ketertarikan mereka lama kelamaan.
walaupun suka main perempuan, tapi dia sangat tulus saat sudah bertemu wanita yang dicintainya.
And as both are as stubborn as a mule it's really entertaining :)I've come across a lot of books describing how adept the heroine is to all kinds of use of weapons, but her action speaks none other than utterly stupid.
And because I like Alexandra so much, I don't let Vasili's flaw get to me.
So if you like heroine that is different and a lot of bantering in a book you might want to try this one.
If anyone knows any other character like Alexandra please do let me know!
While I didn't particularly like Once A Princess, You Belong To Me is a story worthy of more than one reading.Alexandra Rubliov and Vasili Petroff are forced to honour a betrothal agreement that their fathers 'supposedly' arranged.
I loved the manner in which Alexandra tried to disgust Vasili, especially as she is outrageously frank, and I found myself laughing as I thought that Vasili was a bit too full of himself and definitely needed taking down a peg or two.
Most definitely a keeper, as are all of JL's books (even the odd bad one).
This is yet another JL book that I read over and over again.
descriptionBETRAYEDIn all the world, no man exists who can tame Alexandra Rubliov.
A fiery and beautiful free-thinker, Alex's steadfast refusal to marry has frustrated her hapless father.
And so he creates a "long-forgotten" agreement and sends his rebellious daughter away -- falsely maintaining that Alexandra has been promised since childhood to the handsome, insufferable libertine whom she must now accompany to his homeland to wed.
BETROTHEDDismayed to find himself suddenly engaged, Count Vasili Petroff plans to repulse his unwanted fiancee by acting the perfect cad -- unaware that wily Alexandra plans to follow a similar path.
Yet Another Johanna Lindsey Favourite!
-- Diane ™You Belong to Me is a wonderful story, which is a sequel to Once A Princess.
Alexandra Rubliov and Vasili Petroff are forced to honour a betrothal agreement that their fathers 'supposedly' arranged.
I loved the manner in which Alexandra tried to disgust Vasili and found myself laughing as I thought that Vasili was a bit too full of himself and definitely needed taking down a peg or two.
Most definitely a keeper, as are all of JL's books (even the odd bad one).
This is yet another JL book that I read over and over again.
The only redeeming thing about the book was the heroine, Alex.
She is well developed, has her own interests and stands up for herself.
She is a well rounded character and feels real.
He hits Alex, and threatens to rape her, and is only nice to her in the last 10 pages of the book.
I understand that it is set in 1800's Russia, but it doesn't read or feel that way.
It feels modern and there was little to no information on Russian culture or society to make me believe we are at that time period (therefore explaining the patriarchal dynamic).
Really enjoyed this book!
It was exciting to see the interaction between Vasili and Alex.
Despite the fact that they fought and hated each other throughout most of the story, the change into a loving relationship was pleasant to witness and very entertaining.
Alex stuck to her guns despite her attraction towards him whereas heroines in other novels similar to this often succumb far sooner.
Despite the ways Vasili was such an ass, there was never a doubt that he suited Alex and was meant to be with her.
My only complaint is Christopher's part in Alex's life.
In this book You follow both Alexandra, and vasili as they push eachother to their limits in everyway possible.
As they but heads trying to make the other give up and end thier betrothal they not only annoy and disgust the other but they also disgust themselves by thier acctions and for some reason thier unfathomable attraction for eachother!
The characters are well devloped and you are able to come to love and feel for them as they carry on in this funny, yet romantic tale.
I consider this very well written book that you can't manage to put down a must read!
I really enjoyed the humor in this book. I love how strong-willed the heroine was, although I did wish HE would have shown more jealously than she. I did think, however, that the ending was a little too rush. I would have liked to seen more of how Vasili and Alex came to love each other. It's true, they did fight a lot, and when they didn't, they barely spent time with each other; so it was a little confusing when the libertine Vasili fell in love with Alex. Despite that though, I liked the book.
So, I've read this book twice and both times I was impressed with it... I love the strength of the female lead and the lengths she goes to to achieve her goals. I love the male lead and his stubbornness as he maneuvers through the maze of ploys they both use to attain their ends.Great book! good story. A definite must read.
