https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201852.The_Dialogic_Imagination
This double-voicedness in prose is prefigured in language itself (in authentic metaphors, as well as in myth), in language as a social phenomenon that is becoming in history, socially stratified and weathered in this process of becoming [326].Regarding things that look like novels: If the novelist loses touch with this linguistic ground of prose style, if he is unable to attain the heights of a relativized, Galilean linguistic consciousness, if he is deaf to organic double-voicedness and to the internal dialogization of living and evolving discourse, then he will never comprehend, or even realize, the actual possibilities and tasks of the novel as a genre.
Where to start? More or less everything I was taught about literary theory at my polite little liberal arts college derived from Bakhtin in some meaningful way, even if it was a riposte to his ideas. Heteroglossia, the role of the picaresque, intertextuality, the evolution of the novel as bourgeois object... it's not hard to see why these were revolutionary ideas in the interwar period, and not hard to see why they were taken up so enthusiastically since. An important read for anyone who thinks about how and why they read, and how and why they read what they read.

One of the things I remember most about this book is the day in class when someone mentioned that purple was the color favored by...schizoprenics? I don't remember exactly. And we all looked down at our texts, which were driving US insane, and then realized the professor was wearing a purple shirt too.Bahktin is quoted so much that you really HAVE to read him. And then know his basic theories pretty well. And then speak knowingly, or at least nod your head thoughtfully.That said, I think my thesis runs amuck with various theorists who are heavily Bahktin-influenced.
One of the best theoretical works on novel, language, and narrative. I read this at the same time I was reading a few Russian classics, and I think reading them simultaneously helped me understand both this work and the novels I was reading (and will read). I will probably sift through this at least once more to wrap my head around it better and dig deeper.
The dialogic imagination, Mikhail Mikhailovich Bakhtinعنوان: تخیل مکالمه ای جستارهایی درباه رمان؛ نویسنده: میخائیل میخائیلویچ باختین؛ مترجم: رویا پورآذر؛ تهران، نشر نی؛ 1387، در 568 ص؛ واژه نامه دارد، شابک: 9789641850298؛ موضوع: داستان، مقاله، خطابه، ادبیات
My review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wyTzA...
just badass. four essays, all full of stellar insights. this particular edition has a handy glossary of bakhtin-oriented terms--he's got to have one of the best solecist set of terms ever.
It peers exaltingly upward at its subject.The novel, here defined in such a way that it existed in comic form from ancient times (a "comic Odysseus" is attributed to Homer himself), stands above the subject.
None of these interruptions take place in biographical time, because the characters are altogether unchanged by the end, as if real life were put on pause for the adventure (Candide is an ironic exception; at the final consummation, so much time has passed that Cunegonde is an old hag).
Characters are ideologues and the "testing" of them--i.e. conflict of plot--is the dialogue of their linguistic ideologies, a process whereby we're "experimenting by turning persuasive discourse into speaking persons" (348).
%200 sure Bakhtin would be another Derrida if he were French instead of a Russian who was stuck in 1920s Soviet Union only to be discovered years, years later. Both my dudes so we cool.
Bakhtin & Carnival One of the most enjoyable things I’ve read in the last few years is Mikhail Bakhtin writing about Carnival... and since Lent starts this week, the festival of Carne-vale - the farewell to meat - must be just now. I think we need to reclaim it. Not just for a week, but throughout the year!  In his book on Rabelais, Bakhtin examines the phenomenon of Carnival as a subversive alternative lifestyle to the hierarchical power structures of the Middle Ages. The formal “celebratio
The State Church has to keep Jesus serious - like the king - because, I guess if you start laughing then things can get out of control.
The peoples’ laughter does not sit well with power.But there’s also a spiritual side (though Bakhtin wouldn’t describe it in those terms.) He says:“The people’s laughter which characterized all the forms of grotesque realism from immemorial times was linked with the bodily lower stratum.
My most recurring thought while reading this was that Bakhtin was a post-structuralist before there was even such a thing as structuralism, which, I think, is most in evidence with his concept of "heteroglossia" (which is kind of like the valence of contexts that surrounds the sign that allows it to signify) and the application of heteroglossia to the novel.
Instead of positing the novel's material qualities, Bakhtin claims that the novel is a form that is never finished developing and functions through difference (again, post-structuralist) within societies and languages.
His was the first hardcore work of theory that I read before starting my MA, and I felt like the stupidest person in the history of literature.
so snooty!)But I can't help but share my favorite Bakhtin story, which serves only to show that I can take the piss out of geniuses just as well as the next person at the pub (and also helped me get over my fear of the great man).
Apparently Bakhtin had an incredible chain-smoking habit.
And during the war rolling papers were incredibly hard to come by.
I bought this book largely because Bakhtin has been an influential analyst of the novel as a literary form.
I was particularly interested in his observations on polyglossia -- the various forms of expression used in dialog, including formal language as spoken, specialized technical and professional vocabularies, class argot and other variations on common speech, and speech genres, the ways in which these forms of expression are used.
Bakhtin's observations help me better understand that authors such as George V.
Higgins and Elmore Leonard have characters use underworld slang and speech patterns to establish their essential character as members of particular socioeconomic groups.
None of these essays were avaiable in English before the present translation/compilation by Emerson and Holquist, and judging from its many reprintings (the 10th by 1996), quotations and misquotations, and various interpretations, it is the most influential of Bakhtin's works.Some brief notes on the four Essays:1.
"Discourse in the Novel" dated 1934-35 - Another lengthy essay which is in essence Bakhtin's discussion of his philosophy of language.
It consists of five distinct parts in which Bakhtin experiments with different approaches to discourse in the novel.
Granted, no one besides Bakhtin is so utterly smitten with Rabelais, but I find heteroglossia everywhere after reading this book. Especially, I recommend reading Dorthy Sayers mysteries, which are so thick with it that the narration is downright schizophrenic. B's generalizations about poetry as opposed to the novel, though, seem rather narrow in their definition and I doubt any poets would see themselves thus reflected.
Bakhtiiin, you were slow going. Started reading this one back in ye olde 2013, for my first ever European Classical Literatures class, finished it finally after the odious course involving everyone's mutual friends Messrs Turgenev and Dostoyevsky. /Finally/ through with this golden gem of a book in early 2016. This book ought to be made required reading for the English Honours course imo. But more on that later.
Wow...wow...This guy was amazing.It's pretty readable too.All of these ideas coming from one of the most hectic periods in Russian history, from a guy who was pretty hounded...anyway, I think this will change the way I read and write about novels. It really seems to give the novel form a delineation according to what makes it different, and it makes me happy to have a reason to think the stuff I like working best with really has the revolutionary potential I've felt there.
Chronotopes anyone? :D
Bakhtin'i hep sevmişimdir; kullanacağım çok şey var bu kitapta. Tam bir şölendi.
Never have I read so much and understood so little.
One of my favorite theoretical books on novels and narrative.
Finally, theory that truly resonates with me!The first two essays in this collection didn't entirely capture my imagination, but the fourth, "Discourse in the Novel" is so easily a five star read that it brings the entire collection up to that standard.I would say that it made me think about language in a completely different way, but I don't think that's entirely the truth of it. I think that what it's given me is actually a strong, theoretical basis for things that I already believed, but didn't have the words to express.
One of my favorites. This book is the foundational text for my thesis.
I only read the first essay (Novel vs. Myth-epic)! I bought the book for it! And it was amazing! I'd be shocked if the others weren't on par.
My head hurts.
This book--well, anything by this author, really--is where one ought to start one's pursuit of folklore studies. It is really the most fascinating as well as being the most fun and accessible. Bakhtin is one of those obscure geniuses who helped pioneer his field; and (in my opinion) he is the primary 'name to know'.You would then include  'Anatomy of Criticism: Four Essays'  (Sections III & IV only) by Frye, and  'Craft of Poetic Speech in Ancient Greece'  by Calame.If you're really hardcore
This book--well, anything by this author, really--is where one ought to start one's pursuit of folklore studies.
It is really the most fascinating as well as being the most fun and accessible.
by Calame.If you're really hardcore you could study Claude Levi-Strauss; but I don't find him a very readable author and I won't recommend him to anyone not currently in a Phd program.
Same goes for anything by Propp.But for fun, reference, and amusement, you should have this weighty tome on your shelves:
by Wright.Folklore history is mesmerizing stuff and if you're currently a popculture junkie; will help you rise above that.
At times I felt my brain would explode.This is a book I read in preparation for the MA I am about to start.
I had already read something regarding him in The Secret Life of Puppets, but I did not expect his book to be so complicated.
What happens is that Bakhtin uses a lot of very technical terms, and some even that, I think, he invented, and sometimes he doesn't explain them fully, or uses examples that require you to have read the novel he is talking about.
Also, because it is a translation, at times it has the terms in the original language, which makes it even more confusing.
I love Bakhtin, I think "Discourse in the Novel" is entirely brilliant, and the first three essays important to flesh out some its key ideas.
I'm fascinated by language and fascinated by novels but not usually interested in books on language IN novels.
But Bakhtin's theories are vital for thinking about how language and meaning work, and how they are struggled over...
The printed edition?
Awesome.
I also hated the use of the word alien to translate the other, I know I'm a bit of a Sci Fi/fantasy AND immigrant rights geek but alien just has too many other meanings.

