https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104069.Silverlock
I do not agree, however, with those who claim that the book is pointless and plotless.To me, after reading this book several times over the last 30 years, the point of this book is simply in praise of "story"; how it defines us and uplifts us, how basic it is to the human experience.Here we have the case of a modern man, egocentric, detached, materialistic, and apathetic to everything.
Poetry makes the book flow out of the pages into music of this classic lost fantasy with hints of The Princes Bride,Conan & Melvin Peack & Disc world along with Xanth books.
In Silverlock, they either awkwardly turn into name dropping, characters who just so happen to have the same name as a famous one (see:Puck) but share little or no literary similarity or Silverlock is forced to awkwardly interact with wooden characters parroting slightly re-written lines from their own work (see:The Mad Hatter’s Tea Party).All of this is worsened by the fact that Myers seemed to feel that dreaded fantasy author need to write long songs/poems/ballads at the slightest provocation, because don’t we all wish we were secretly medieval bards.
My paperback copy had multiple introductions and at least five pages of rave reviews from numerous sources.
No text, no matter how inspired, can be expected to deliver the goods after so much hype.The book itself never really jelled for me; the characters, although many were familiar from other works, were not written in sympathetic fashion and the conceit of the Commonwealth itself was simply a chance for Myers to run amok with the worlds and characters of frankly better writers.
I've seen this sort of thing since, but these days it's usually called "fanfic."
Romping through the literary mish-mash, sometimes alone, sometimes with Golias, Shandon brushes against most of the stories but doesn’t really become part of any.
Even more surprising: despite his university degree, he doesn’t recognize any of the stories, as if American education didn’t include world literature.
It’s built as a quest, with the purpose to show Shandon that his cynicism is misplaced, but the novel never quite succeeds in its goal.
And he almost loses his new-found humanity again, would’ve lost it, if Golias didn’t rush to his rescue one last time.The writer is as detached as his hero, so even bloody battles come out distant, with no emotional involvement, no fear, and no pain.
Fascinating.
This book has three forewords from three prominent authors in their own right going on about this book.
Drum roll...
they are right.
This delectible morsel is crisscrossed with many ancient myths and woven together in extraordinary fashion.
Even better is the musical interludes..
more than I have seen from many other authors of any genre.
The only ones who come close are Stephen Donaldson or Tolkien.
You will have to read it yourself to appreciate it but I recommend this story even to those who do not normally read fantasy.
This story has something for everyone..
This is a 'modern' retelling of The Odessy, sort of. It's been too long since I last read it for a proper review, though. First published in 1949, this was a well known classic in the 60s, but seems to have fallen out of favor. I'm not sure why since the writing is quite good.
For me this book is like the literary version of the song "American Pie" by Don Maclean.It is a fantastic book, I read this the first time in high school and it has stuck with me ever since. I just bought the re-release of the book and look forward to re-reading it. My recollection was that it was a modern version of something Mark Twain would have writte-Like a Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court.
This book reminds me of nothing more than a small child who has learned an exciting trick.
Clarence Shandon) from real-world Chicago gets shipwrecked in the Commonwealth, where all literature and legends exist at once.
Shandon kind of bounces around the Commonwealth, less having any real mission than meeting as many literary and legendary figures as possible.
It's like Myers wanted to be as obscure and academic as possible.The story itself is obviously just a showcase for the references and a really blatant classic Hero’s Journey, which means it’s not actually interesting.
It means "encamping." Shandon bivouacs LIKE CRAZY in the Commonwealth.
I want someone to explain to me in great detail why this book isn't a rip off of The Complete Compleat Enchanter.And that book was funnier.It's kinda cool combining all the stories and stuff, but honesty, it's been done better.And it didn't need three introductions.
One of my faves of all time. I took away a different understanding re-reading it now than when I was in college - what perspective a couple of decades can give you! Love it then for the grand adventure and intellectual fun of figuring everyone out. Love it now with an understanding of his journey.

This was actually re-read. I read this book years ago and recently decided that I liked it enough to read it again. It's a fun and sometimes funny fantasy adventure through all myths and fantasy adventures that have preceeded it. Well, maybe not all, but there are an awful lot of references to.... just about anything. Ideal for those who know a little about a lot. Or a lot about a lot.
Myers employs archaic and modern language to their full effect to highlight history while showing how it is relevant way past its timeline.The most important proposition I came away with from this book involves man's tendency towards self-importance, largely without basis in fact or nature.
It demonstrates how man latches on for dear life to every notion of primacy and anointment to some divine purpose or existence and his eagerness to ignore or deny every indication to the contrary--"man's chief ailment, next to being alive, is delusions of moral grandeur".
The ability to assuredly address complex issues clearly and with mirth demonstrates an exceptional mind.
Generally you get a Neil Gaiman or a Stephen King or a Grant Morrison telling you how so-and-so is the "best author alive today" or "this work will melt the portions of your brain that can't handle awesome!" and I sort of treat those opinions with the same care and indulgence that one treats an overenthusiastic child who just got a new truck: smile, acknowledge politely and then change the subject as quickly as possible.This book sports not one but three forwards from three different well-known SF authors, Poul Anderson, Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle (and an afterword from Anderson's wife, for good measure), all of whom go out of their way to aggressively sell you on the idea that you are about to enter a world of amazing fantastic fun the likes of which your mind has never experienced, one that will change your life and you will treasure to the end of your days.
Secondly, it is an allegory, following the development of Silverlock from a cold cynic with no respect for or knowledge of the world of literature, to an enthusiastic aspirant maker of tales.
And finally, it is an incredible literary game of 'identify that reference', as every person, place, and thing in Silverlock, outside of the protagonist is lifted from the vast range of literature and myth, from Gilgamesh to Mark Twain.These literary references and the way Silverlock interacts with them create the unique magic of this book.
This is a book to keep, treasure, and share.
Conversion is seldom a straight line and there are plenty of zig-zags in this plot.I just loved the writing that was often funny regarding character dialogue and the characters thoughts.
But this isn't written as a comedic Fantasy, just quite funny at times.An example of the humor."...while I drank, I wasn't in bad shape.
I was proud of how straight I could walk, though my shadow wasn't doing so well."As a fantasy adventure it was quite enjoyable, but there was just so much more depth to it.
One of the few books I have finished only to have the right to write a review of it.
The premise was interesting--a fantasy world populated by the great characters of fiction and legend.
And the famous fictional characters appear and disappear so quickly and randomly that one can't really get interested in most of their involvement either.
This book seemed to me primarily an opportunity for the author to show off his wide ranging knowledge of works of literature and myth.
The story seemed contrived to enable cameo appearances by various characters, most of whom added nothing to the narrative.
This is my third reading of Silverlock.
He meets all manner of characters, all from epic, song, myth and story, from ancient to modern.A rollicking fun novel, though of little literary consequence by itself; as others have remarked, its value lies in that of a game: you can congratulate yourself on knowing some of the more obvious references (Hamlet, Oedipus) or challenge yourself to track down some of the more obscure (the knave Lorel, Jamshyd).
It's a modern Pilgrim's Progress dedicated to the delight of reading, and a great way to stimulate further interest in the classics
This is supposed to be one of the greatest literary romps in history. It was OK. This was written in 1949 so some of the hijinks maybe a bit on the dated side. I think the draw of this book was tracking down all the references to other literary books and characters. Only the main character isn't lifted from another book. I liked it, but it wasn't the greatest thing I have ever read.
It's been a long time ago but I remember this book as a wonderful joy ride of so many characters you'll recognize from history, mythology and books. Rollicking is a word that comes to mind. Definitely want to re-read to see if it (or my joy) holds up.
Puts a library inside a book. I can't help but wonder if the creators of Shrek were inspired by this book. Some of the allusions are easy to see but many float above head level. I think this book should be inside many literature classrooms. Classic!
If I were a bit more (okay, a lot more) well-read in the classics, I suppose I might have enjoyed playing "spot the literary allusion" in this otherwise-pointless, plotless book.
https://egotistsclub.wordpress.com/20...Curiously, the story is too good for its protagonist.
A wonderful romp.
Of course, I needed to read it to see if it worked as a comp, but I’ve never really been able to find any comparative titles, so I was really excited about the prospect.
I’ve fallen in love with cocky characters before and connected with characters I have nothing in common with, but not with Shandon Silverlock.
Yet at the same time, I think I was frustrated just enough, wondering what the main conflict was, that I found the onslaught of references annoying, instead of pleasurable, like each discovery is in say, James A.
After some encouragement by my boyfriend (because I really don’t like to DNF a book), I put Silverlock down.
Part adventure novel, part spiritual journey, part allegory and filled with more literary cultural references than you can shake a stick at, this novel is both wild and sobering.
He careens from one adventure to another, appearing to accept the anachronisms, absurdities and weirdness with complete aplomb if not evenness of temper.
Some guy in ancient armor thinks he’s raping a corpse?
Well, if he can convince the jury to let him go, he’s copacetic.If you’re a bibliophile like I am, the many allusions to various different myths, legends, fairy tales, novels, etc., will no doubt keep you very happy.
Funny and fun--I can see why it gets such rapturous praise.
Would've liked for the female characters to have had things to do not involving men (they're either brazen seductresses like Semiramis and Nimue, or looking for/waiting on their man like Hermione and Rosalette).
I also found it difficult to credit Shandon's utter cultural illiteracy.
A lot of the characters he encounters aren't all that well-known to people outside the English major/avid reader community, I grant.
But he meets a band of merry outlaws in the greenwood led by a man with a great big bow named "Robin", and not one neuron fires?
This is on my top ten list of books read, ever...Over the last 30 years, I've given away nearly a dozen copies of this book to young readers and friends.As a result of reading this book, I've gone back and read a whole raft of classic literature that I might have overlooked otherwise.This is close enough to perfect for me. Too bad there was never a sequel or other stories set in the actual Commonwealth. And despite the hype, "The Moon's Fire-Eating Daughter" is NOT a sequel.
“Everybody has an idea of himself which augments, aggravates, or modifies the actuality.” ― John Myers Myers, Silverlock“The steps to degradation are only three: the actuality of the shameful condition, the recognition of the actuality while feeling unable to do anything about it, and then acceptance of it as the normal state of affairs.” ― John Myers Myers, Silverlock
