https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/839814.The_English_Eccentrics
Read, for example, of the rich Miss Beswick, whose sole concern was that, having passed on, she might not realize it, and that her death "might prove to be only an illusion, a dreamless sleep." And so she left a large sum of money to a certain doctor and his family, "on condition that the doctor should pay her a visit every morning, after what appeared to uninstructed persons, to be her death, in order that he might be assured of the reality of this." Dame Edith dryly notes, "When the Doctor died, the mummified Miss Beswick, that candidate for immortality, was removed to the Lying-in Hospital."It's Edith Sitwell's droll, ornate prose, moreso even than the picturesque eccentrics, that make this a book to savor, to read bits of aloud, in the small hours of the night.
All English, except Margaret Fuller, who Sitwell calls a slut right off the bat. This'll be strange.
How could you possibly not like a book with a chapter entitled "Ornamental Hermits?"There are days when I'd love to BE an ornamental hermit. Sitwell cribs like crazy from John Timbs' English Eccentrics and Eccentricities (1866), but she writes so well, so dryly and tongue-in-cheek, that we forgive her.
In the end, perhaps, it is an English trait to actually like a touch of the eccentric about us.Edith Sitwell was not perhaps the first to notice this, but she certainly was one of the first to record and cherish so many examples of those who over many years have worshipped at vanity’s altar.
Healers, men of learning, followers of fashion, travellers in exotic lands all are closely chaperoned within the 250 or so pages of the book, lest they escape and resume their firework-like careers.To detail just one example is to pluck a single blossom from an orchard of blooms, but I think a word must be said about Squire Mytton, the sporting squire who exhausted his fortune and his life by a reckless disregard for almost everything except gentility.
indeed, the only lives that were in danger were those of certain unfeeling young gentlemen, who, in the scene where the hero poisons himself, were seized with such immoderate paroxysms of laughter that a doctor who was present became alarmed at their condition, and ordered them to be carried into the open air, where they received medical attention.'Edith Sitwell's sarcastic tone adds to the narrative: 'Others of Miss Martineau's neighbours were hardly respectable, but like a comfortable Christian woman Miss Martineau said no more about them than would destroy their reputation for respectability and enhance her own.' I found her writing extremely hard to get into, especially on the first page, but soon got into it.The last 60 pages or so I found less interesting: a lengthy investigation into people exhuming the (reported) grave of Milton, and removing parts of the body to sell; a description of the Carlyles.
Le père d'Edith Sitwell a écrit une anthologie sur l'histoire de la fourchette.
Rien que pour ça, cette famille mérite qu'on s'y penche.
Absolument convaincu que leur fille a un problème à la colonne vertébrale, la pauvre doit subir le port d'un corset de fer.
Jamais mariée, collectionnant les crush pour des homosexuels, Edith vécut avec sa gouvernante jusqu'à la mort de cette dernière, emportée par un cancer.
Une vie un peu WTF qui doit sans doute être la résultante de son ton si sarcastique et de ses roulements d'yeux permanents dans ses ouvrages.
A very nice collection of real life stories about odd English people, complemented by Sitwell's own highly sarcastic and witty commentary.
All stories need to be taken with a grain of salt, as Sitwell states that she prefers a good story to a true one, and presents the collected anecdotes as just that — anecdotes, not necessarily facts.
She's skeptical enough where necessary, but the point of this book isn't skepticism, it's conveying a set of tales that might otherwise have been lost.
She cites her sources and gives the reader every chance to make up their own minds as to the tales' veracity.
Lampblack
Beautifully written & composed & quintessentially English - made all the more so by a good measure of Sitwellian wit. Enjoyable.
Like the curate's egg - good in parts but quite a lot of dross in between!
Going through my Bloomsbury period. A true eccentric writing about eccentrics as only the British have them.
