https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85767.Gender_Trouble
If I wrote as poorly as they do, I'd have similar concerns.(Deep breath—) with that rant out of the way, let me just offer a few disconnected reading notes on some of the very interesting ideas in the book, insofar as they were at all comprehensible.Butler's main idea is that gender is not a binary thing, but instead a spectrum of available identities which has no simple link to biological sex.
The takeaway message is that gender – and sex too – is a performance, not a pre-existing state, but a series of practices (although, I think we need something stronger, like habits, only stronger still) that are made real by being constantly enforced and reinforced.
As Butler points out here, there is a sense in which maleness isn’t really a gender at all, but rather the default in our society like ‘white’ also is the default – the taken for granted – the sex that is not seen.
Thrilling new vocabulary with which to alienate friends and offend family
Still no real review yet, but in my research for this I found 'Judith Butler Explained with Cats', an instructive Socratic dialogue on Butler's idea of gender as a performance.http://i.imgur.com/XNAnCGdhttp://i.imgur.com/BSjMNmP(Source is binarythis.wordpress.com)Look at this. It lays out the idea very clearly and it has cat pictures. How am I going to compete with this.
به هرحال برایِ فهمِ «فمینیسم» در سطحِ بسیار بالا، این کتاب، میتواند تا حدی مفید باشدامیدوارم روزی برسد که در سرزمینِ با ارزشمان ایران، همانندِ ایرانیانِ قبل از تجاوز و حملۀ تازیان، ساکنینِ این مرز و بوم برایِ جنسِ با ارزش و لطیفِ «زن» ارزش قائل شوند بخشی از کتاب را به انتخاب در زیر برایِ شما دوستانِ خردگرا مینویسم**************************آيا اين صرفاً يك عرف فرهنگی نيست كه پيج و ديگران با آن تصميم می گيرند فردی كه از نظر آناتوميكی مبهم و دارایِ كروموزوم «2 ایکس» است را مرد بدانند، عرفی كه آلات تناسلی را نشانه قطعیِ جنس تصور ميكند؟ ميتوان استدلال نمود كه ناپيوستگی در اين نمونه ها با مراجعه به یک عامل مجزا مشخص نمی شود و اينكه جنس، به عنوان یک دسته بندی كه شاملِ عناصر، كاركردها و ابعادِ هورمونی و كروموزومی است، ديگر در چارچوب دوتايی كه بدان بخشيده ايم عمل نميكنداگر بدن موجوديتی ندارد جز یک مرزبندیِ متغير، سطحی كه نفوذ پذيری اش به طور سياسی تنظيم ميشود، كنش دلالتی در یک زمينۀ فرهنگیِ سلسله مراتب جنسيتی و دگرجنسگرايیِ اجباری، پس برای درکِ اين تصويب جسمانی يعنی جنسيت كه دلالت " درونی " را بر رویِ سطح اش ايجاد ميكند، چه زبانی لازم است؟...
Gender Trouble: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity, Judith ButlerGender Trouble: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity (1990; second edition 1999) is a book by the philosopher Judith Butler, in which the author argues that gender is a kind of improvised performance. The work is influential in feminism, women's studies, and lesbian and gay studies, and has also enjoyed widespread popularity outside of traditional academic circles. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه آوریل سال 2007 میلادیعنوان: آشفتگی جنسیتی ؛ نویسنده: جودیت باتلر؛ مترجم: امین قضایی؛ مشخصات نشر: 1386، نشر مجله شعرا. شربیانی

Badly written and destructive in its impact on academic discourse.
Butler is a darling of the theory crowd, one of the required citations.
I found nothing in it that went beyond the standard cliches concerning the inadequacy of essentialist definitions.
That wouldn't earn it the one star; what does is Butler's centrality to the infinite regression school of literary/cultural theory.
By the time Butler's acolytes--apparently oblivious to the fact that every third sentence is borderline ungrammatical--are finished, what we're left with is an approach that elevates critique of critique of critique to near-holy status.
The Butlerians believe themselves to be progressive in some oddly hermetic sense; far as I can tell the discourse is profoundly nihilistic.
I mark this book read somewhat disingenuously, since it was so far over my head much of the time I was merely skimming it inattentively. However, there were moments when even I experienced a feeling of awesome revelationThe mark of gender appears to qualify bodies as human bodies; the moment at which an infant becomes humanised is when the question 'is it a boy or a girl?' is answered...Strategies of exclusion and hierarchy are shown to persist in the formulation of the sex/gender distinction and its recourse to "sex" as the prediscursive...
True, it is a bit dated today, and I would distance myself from her strong emphasis on psychoanalysis and performativity, but it was a radical turning point in my life, and is close to perfect as a theory text. Its impact on contemporary feminism and critical practices can not be underestimated. This book will always be close to my heart.
The exploration and critique of compulsory heterosexuality is likewise excellent.That said, 'Gender Trouble' is a challenging book to read.
(Personally, the more I read of psychoanalytic theory the more strongly it seems to take on the quality of fiction.
Moreover, I refuse to believe that sexual desire is the catalyst for so much of the personality.)The commentary on intersectional feminism toward the end of the book was, I think, the most practical part.
Even if psychoanalytic theory leaves you cold, this book is still well worth reading for its dissection of how we think about gender, sex, and sexuality.
Butler's writing is some of the worst I've encountered in academia. A few of her ideas are novel, but they are so buried in unnecessarily convoluted reasoning and unexplained references to vaguely related work that they are hardly worth the effort. The book also abuses trans people's identities for political purposes.
I think it's far more manageable when you've read the works and thinkers she's discussing at length (namely, de Beauvoir, Wittig, Foucault, Kristeva, and Irigaray, among a handful of others), but at the same time, I think Butler's a really fantastic teacher.
In any case, Butler--and I suppose most likely Gender Trouble, since that's what skyrocketed her to academic fame and remains the most commonly taught text of hers--is a must-read for anyone interested in post-structuralism, deconstruction, feminism, queer politics, subjectivity, &co.
Love her or hate her, she remains one of our most famous living thinkers on these subjects.
That is, “construction of ‘sex’ as the radically unconstructed” (id.) is the object of critique, “sex as the prediscursive.” By contrast with others who argue that “the notion that gender is constructed suggests a certain determinism of gender meanings inscribed on anatomically differentiated bodies” (8), author argues that if “gender is understood in terms of such a law or set of laws, then it seems that gender is as determined and fixed as it was under the biology-is-destiny formula”—“not biology, but culture, becomes destiny” (id.).Regarding de Beauvoir’s famous opening to The Second Sex, There is nothing in her account that guarantees that the ‘one’ who becomes a woman is necessarily female.
Es todo sobre lo que alguna vez leí en todos los lugares que visité o leí citas de esta mujer y sus ideas, pero finalmente desde la fuente. No es fácil de leer, cuesta mucho y terminas visitando guías de lectura para que te faciliten lo que dice o quiere decir citando tal o cual autor o situación. Realmente es muy difícil de leer, pero a quienes les interese leer "la fuente", que se arme de paciencia y lo lea con calma para poder entender lo que quería decir.
It's incredibly difficult to get past Butler's writing style, which is notoriously dense.
(We're talking Ghengis Khan levels of "notorious".) Ultimately this makes the reading experience so frustrating that it's hard to appreciate or understand the theory.
(Possibly proving, yet again, that academics are really susceptible to costuming.)Her arguments about gender performativity may be interesting and compelling, but in the year 2006, they're fairly well saturated into the worlds of Gender and Queer Studies.
(Although, perhaps not in the world of Women's and Gay & Lesbian Studies.) Given that they weren't all that new or shocking it makes it hard to find reading these texts worth the pain any misery.
Even as a "woke feminist" whose knowledge is, I found out, for a large part based on a lot of Butler's theory, this was delightfully enlightening and makes me want to know SO MUCH MORE about feminist and gender theory.
What I did understand was very interesting, but I hate that academics apparently feel they have to make their work as complicated and jargony as they can.
It's unnecessary, and it makes this book inaccessible for anyone who isn't a seasoned academic.
I'm giving this book 3.5 stars, but I really wish I could've given it more because if I'd understood more I'm sure I would have.
OK, so gender is chiefly performative.
This seems reasonable.
And at the beginning of the book, I was on her side-- hell, "androgyny is a cultural imperative" was a mantra to me in my college days.
But I think Butler goes a bit overboard with the idea, attributing a degree of fluidity to gender that seems more prescriptive than descriptive.
I agree that mid-century French feminists were more essentialist than they cared to admit, and I'm impressed with the way that Butler cleaned house in regards to theory.
The problem arises when she seems to be more interested in generating a radical vocabulary than elucidating an argument.
Recensão completa deste livro em: https://formadevida.org/recensoes/129...
Clássico fundador da teoria queer que coloca o gênero como performance, está dividido em três capítu
Butler has to hit all of the major categories of gender construction – genetic, morphological, and cultural – in order to ward off “yes, but” criticisms that will always point back to the givenness of biological sex which gender can only ever agree or disagree with.The fact is, as Butler points out, that it is not 99.9% of people who have clearly defined genitalia (or genitalia which easily match up to the pre-figured conceptions of male and female sex organs; to speak of anything that has a material existence as ill-defined sounds a bit silly on reflection), but something more like 90%.
Butler, I think, questions the foundation of 'sex' coming from biology - which is fair enough since humans are, ultimately, the ones that are slicing reality in that way - there are examples of humans that don't adequately fit into that type of Aristotelian categorization.
One of the section in this book, which is for the most part an extended literature review and critique, has Butler dissecting Foucault's essay about such a person.
To the extreme of dissecting Foucault's answer to an interview question about homosexuality.
Yes, she dissects the meaning and implication of [laughter] using examples from Avicenna and other various historical and contemporary sources.
Most of her critiques are summaries followed by this statement – over and over and over again.While quite useful in analyses of class and race, the typical post-Nietzschean wand wave of denying any prediscursive non-socially constructed ontology doesn't work so effectively in discussions of gender and sexuality.
But even if the biological is not the central essence, there is no doubt that it has an effect in the constitution of gender and sexuality – an effect that actually does have an existence independent of the social world and cannot be reduced to the Law or discursivity.The occlusion of the biological from gender studies has immanent consequences for the lives of LGBT individuals and the discussion of the political issues that directly impact their lives.
In this book, Butler exposes the problems resulting from the identification of gender based on the biological difference between men and women.
Defining Women and Men as universal categories disguises the interests it serves.
The third, “Subversive Bodily Acts” deals with the category of biological sex and ends with Butler’s theory of gender-related performance and performativity.
For the sake of revealing the power relations behind pre-determined gender and sex, Butler suggests the concept of performativity.
Performativity creates a fictional reality in which gender and its roles are determined according to a men/women binary distinction.
First let me say that this is a thorough, well-argued treatment of the relationship between gender, sex, and sexual behavior, as they have been conceived in the past.
The main thesis, that any behavior outside of sexual norms destabilizes gender norms, has subtler and further-reaching implications that the usual gloss of the book, "gender is a social construct"-- which is hardly a new idea (e.g., 1970s constructivist social theory as mentioned above).
She suggests, of course, that there always will be some reconfiguration of one by a difference in the other, explicitly because 'sexual orientation' as we know it is just as much socially constructed as gender.
Butler's idea that gender is fundamentally performative (i.e. it's something you 'do', not something you 'are') is a potent observation that helped clear out a lot of tedious, essentialist thinking.
Butler's prose is unapologetically dense, but this seems like a work that's trying to fundamentally shift the terms of a political conversation (feminism) while simultaneously critiquing it, no small task.
Writing something like this is a big risk for any kind of thinker, and, all things considered, I think Butler pulls it off remarkably well.
A bit of advice: be sure to bone up on Lacanian terminology before you tackle it.
It helps a bit.
So many good thoughts. So hard to understand.
What's a woman? What's a woman, what's a what's a what's a woman, w-w-woman, wooooooman.
While I agree to an extent, it’s clear that the goal in this work is to disrupt the gender binary system that has been naturalized.
What one does or argues after the free-play has been established is up to anyone but I don’t think Butler has a specific goal in mind.
The other way would work too, but not because there is a hierarchical system which is the inversion of the one we live in today; the fact that we are willing to naturalize a specific sexual orientation is restrictive to the formation of our identity regardless of the orientation.
While a book can have great ideas and arguments, if you write in a way that is exhausting to understand, it feels more like a painful chore rather than a voluntary desire. That’s how I lived this reading experience. Too bad Butler gives the impression they don’t seem to care if you can carry along with their arguments or not. I’m surprised this book gets the hype it does and it makes me wonder if people actually read it, or just read about it and say they did the heavy reading, when they didn’t.
