https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/865365.Second_Class_Citizen
Second Class Citizen is a very auto-biographical account of Buchi Emecheta’s emigration from Nigeria to London.
Her upbringing in Africa has taught her that women are second class and do not matter as much as their husbands, they are only to take care of the home and have as many children as possible.
Thankfully, after living in London for years, she unlearns those childhood “lessons.” You can hear this woman’s voice as you read and know she is a person you could easily befriend and always be entertained by; she almost always finds the positive in the negative (and she’s got plenty of negatives!).
The time it takes for a normal human being to mature completely is something that is still very relative and sometimes, can feel like a mirage.
Growing up mentally is a tedious process, more for the body, the physical self, that becomes accustomed to its surrounding.
The world outside is strange and weird, full of soul-crushing impediments.Buchi Emecheta's Second-Class Citizen is a soul rendering growth of Adah Obi. Crushed by her own bigger family since an early age, her willingness to learn never fades.
Nothing vouchsafes strength and power more than African women writers.
This semi-autobiographical work emaciates the gap that is present between what we know and why we think it happens.
Whilst some cultural references bewildered me when I read its first few chapters because of my detachment from the Nigerian culture, the book hooked me right through.
I loved and respected Adah for both her flaws and her strength in character; she is strong, naive, contradictory and honestly reflective and I could relate to her.
Reading the book made me feel grateful for all the privileges I had.
It was heartbreaking for me to read about a young woman of about my age (I am 22) struggling to educate herself, to bring up her five children and to deal with a parasitic, manipulative and abusive husband...whilst here I am, pursuing my passion in university, enjoying myself being loved and spoilt, daydreaming and thinking of ways to annoy grown-ups!
Very interesting but sad book. I found it hard to put down. However, I found that plot picked up too fast at the end, with too many events happening in the last few chapters. The ending I found unsatisfactory - there needs to be a sequel, otherwise the book just feels incomplete.
I loved this story so much!! Emecheta's writing is rich and wonderful. I definitely had a cultural experience reading this!! I saw a bit of myself in the main character, Adah. Head over to my blog and read my review where I am transparent about why I relate so much to her. http://www.therusticwindow.com/words-in-color/2018/2/5/second-class-citizen-by-buchi-emecheta
Second Class Citizen was my Christmas Eve book!Buchi Emecheta is considered by many to be the a "pioneer among female African writers." Born in Lagos, she came to the UK in the 1960s.
She published many books, including Second Class Citizen, including In the Ditch and The Joys of Motherhood.
I'll be making an effort to read more of her stuff from now on.Second Class Citizen is semi-autobiographical.
The parallels with Emecheta's life are obvious.This is a sad but brilliant book that's still relevant in 2018 even though it was published in the 1970s.
I had to bear with the first couple of chapters as they read a bit like a summary, but once she gets to chapter three things really kick into gear.This book really made me think about my cultural assumptions and question them.
In Britain it's relatively common not to have functioning extended families and so the state acts to replace that function where poverty causes it to be become a problem.Clever stuff, and all told with a wry, dark humour.In the Ditch was published first, but chronologically takes place after Citizen.
I read them in publication order and it really wasn't a problem, though Ditch does have a spoiler of Citizen's climax.
This was a great read, I really enjoyed this book. I love the characters as well as the story line. One of the quotes I got from this book is  ' A man who treated his mother like shit would always treat his wife like a shit' I believe this to be true because I have come across it. It shows how life is like in Nigeria as a woman and what some of them went through by having hard times living by the rules.
From the onset of the book, we see Adah defy the implicit rules that define her cultural standing when she leaves her house at the age of five to attend school without telling her parents.
This early scene plays itself out again and again throughout the book as Adah faces numerous emotional, social, and economic challenges both in her personal life with an Ibo man she marries who lacks drive and resents his wife's ambition to the point of physical and emotional abuse and in her migration to England where she faces racism and sexism on a daily basis.
Therefore, in order to fight against the odds and move forward, class societies have to be able to adapt to different living environments through education and being able to hold tight to dreams.Second Class Citizen by Buchi Emecheta is an African novel that depicts the struggle for women to receive their education and surviving in a European white society while adapting to different religious beliefs and still following the beliefs of her own people.
In this story, Adah survived, not only for herself but also her dreams, while growing into a woman and moving from a high class position in her native Nigeria, a patriarchal society, to a very poor class in a predominantly white European society.
Buchi Emecheta wrote about Adah's arrival in the U.K. from Nigeria and her general issues of race, poverty and gender.
Like several of her published books, for instance "The Bride Price", she picks out themes like female independence and suffering from limited freedoms.The whole story around "Second-class citizen" first starts with an overview on her childhood and parts of her youth in Nigeria, until she met Francis, who will soon become her husband.
The whole beginning was very slow and hasn't taken proper run.But soon, little time after she had arrived, they both would have to face several problems.
It's a story about fighting against the odds, even though you are a second rate citizen (possibly squared, when you add being a woman to being black in Britain).But the beauty of the book is the way it's told from the point of view of the protagonist, who does not really see the unfair odds she is fighting; it's just her life.
(view spoiler)[when he thinks it natural, that she work hard and support his "studies", which he will never finish, and have sex with him whenever he wants (we would probably say rape, but she doesn't), has no say re: contraception even if she just keeps getting pregnant and he doesn't help with the children, can't have friends or well anything can't do anything he doesn't decree, even when it almost kills her.
Emecheta's second book is an account of her promising young years, where school success and a job grants her independence, before she chooses the thorny path of marrying and emigrating, where she endures years of suffering before settling down as a writer.
The book paints a very unwelcoming portrait of England, with its tiny and damp apartments that are explicitly refused to people of color.
But more dominant yet, her true central subject is the various social burdens associated with womanhood, often made worse by good-for-nothing husbands.
A good book to see yourself through when you're poor, foreign, you have more than three kids and little to no support, and nothing works.
They were all going to be black, they were going to enjoy being black, a black of a different breed."Avere una storia bella e interessante da raccontare, ricca di spunti sul razzismo, sulla parità di genere e tanto altro non è sufficiente.
Bisogna saper usare la lingua, dare un senso al racconto senza relegarlo nel noioso e piatto stile giornalistico degli incapaci.
Non sa scrivere, e lo dico a malincuore, perché il romanzo in sé è interessante, palesemente ispirato alla sua vita, ricco di momenti che dovrebbero toccare le corde del cuore e invece lasciano indifferenti.
La causa di questa sensazione è lo stile anonimo e senz'anima.
I actually gave her one star only out of appreciation to her effort and attempt of writing.As interesting as such feminist story can be, a story of self realization out of determination and suffering.
Yet, I still see the text lakes the writing sparkling talent.
Buchi was a great woman no doubt about it, it's obvious that the story is autobiographical, yet she failed to put on a cohesive texte.
Besides ,The ending of the book was incomprehensible for me.I believed that the book was quite sincere, and maybe that what made it successful, yet the writing did not establish the satisfactory climx or any kind of closure.
A brilliant book about an iron-willed young African girl, who got married out of convenience and had her unhappy and abusive marriage stand in her way for the most part of her young life. This book's brilliance is in the way in which it questions everything and leaves the reader to judge. From ethnocentrism to racism and from religion to misogyny, Buchi Emecheta phenomenally addresses some touchy issues of British society and Nigerian (especially Igbo)tradition and manages to show the good and bad sides of both. Highly recommended read.Full review http://kinnareads.com/2014/03/12/jero...
I didn't know it was an auto - biological story of Buchi Emecheta herself! but close to the end I suspected it already. The book made me think a lot about racism, sexism and the "hetero relationship" with men individually and the intesectionality between them. Adah/Buchi is a second class citizen in Nigeria because she was AFAB and in England as a Nigerian immigrant and at home, as a wife to an egocentric abusive looser of a man. I loved her from the beginning and wished all the book that finally something good will happen to her.
Wow, Buchi Emecheta tells a powerful story. Her writing style is so interesting; it's clear that English is her second language but her command of the language and her ability to pace her work is amazing, as is the way she describes the most important aspects of scenes to vividly portray her protagonist's emotions. I understand that many of her novels are based loosely on her life. I plan to read the entire oeuvre.
3.5/5 starsJust one thing, I kept having this feeling like the protagonist was being idealised a little bit. Like she's always perfect and oh her only fault was to be too good and modest and blame herself for everything... Yeah, there's something fishy here.
Don't be fooled by the seeming simplicity and bubbling ease of Emecheta's language. Second Class Citizen courses with the baffling persistence of life. Amid all that's stultifying about capital-S Society and capital-C Culture, this novel and its protagonist Adah twist and grow.
Really enjoyed that one, Adha was such a strong female who tried to survive the new culture she moved to. Her husband was so annoying, however we see and hear of this type of husbands all the time. A great work, excited to discuss it in class!
2.5 ☆ Finito giusto giusto il giorno prima dell'esame u.u
Finally a book with a strong female protagonist who overcomes the hardships that are imposed on her by a patriarchal, racist society.
She succeeds in making her culture and struggles relatable and her autobiographical novel is a wonderful piece of literature in its own way.The story starts off introducing Adah, the main character and talks about her childhood, which she doesn’t remember a lot about.
A foreshadowing of what her life will be like in the United Kingdom: full of violence, darkness, coldness and only a few happy moments.The book “Second class citizens” is a really good book, due to the fact that it shows the struggle of colored people and how the “typical” role of women in the Nigerian community combined with domestic violence and poverty affects women like Adah.
Although in contrary to her character in the book she becomes a successful writer and publishes many books, despite all the obstacles she had to overcome in her life, some of which you learn about in “Second-Class Citizen”.The book begins with the early life of the protagonist Adah.
When she finally finds the strength within herself to pursue her dream of becoming a writer, Adah witnesses her first novel being burned by Francis, all because he cannot deal with an intelligent woman being his wife, since to him they are nothing but “second-class humans” to him.
As many of her other works this is a very auto-biographical literary output and deals with emancipation.The story is about a Nigerian woman who struggles through many stages and problems in her life.The beginning of the book is around the time during the second world war and takes place in Lagos, where a young girl, the protagonist, named Adah lives together with her parents and her little brother.
When they finally get to live in England it's different from what Adah was expecting and many things happen, e.g. when she gets pregnant.
The children all stare at her but the teacher just looks at her and smiles and lets her sit in on the rest of the class.Adah's dream is to go to the United Kingdom to study and to see the greatness that she is sure is there.
At this point, I don't want to spoil too much of the following story because that's the part where it gets interesting.I didn't read any other book from Buchi Emecheta, therefore, I can't compare to other Books.I would recommend the book because it is very captivating to see Adah develop from suppressed little girl to a strong independent woman.
“Second-Class Citizen“ by Buchi Emecheta, published in 1974 as part of the African Writers Series, is a novel about a black woman struggling with her life in the UK, focused of race, poverty and gender.
The fact that Emechetas novel is autobiographical, makes it even more realistic, she writes down some of her own experiences, her feelings, emotions, her own struggle finding a way to life in the UK with a surrounding full of racism, sexism, beating husbands and games of wit and dominance.
They were second class citizens to their brothers.
She is definitely a second class citizen in her marriage, not being able to make decisions (her husband not event making decisions because it must go through the male elders of their house) and even though she is second class she must fund her husbands education as well as some of his family em members.
Her husband decides to live her dream and go to the UK and study but she wants to go to.
I liked the book and I like that she eventually left him but I get how she is a second class citizen in her country and one in UK because not only was she a woman but a black woman.
You can’t help but quickly turn the pages to find out what is going to happen next.
Adah, the main character, and the hero of this story is going through the kinds of stress that would break mere mortals.
Every turn of the page has you rooting for this character.
Adah arrives in England to find that her husband has made no preparations for his wife and child.
Even though Adah has a young child and is pregnant with another on the way her husband refuses to get a job.
