https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32333338-save-the-date
Morgan Matson didn’t write a book… She wrote a movie.Truly, this content belongs on a huge Hollywood screen.
I can easily picture myself laughing out loud at this wedding fiasco… at the movie theatre.It’s definitely unrealistic.
The thing is, I don’t at all mind producers stretching reality thin, but when authors do that in my contemporary reads, I get annoyed.Fortunately, it is not all unrealistic.
But although it’s a humorous story, I never actually laughed out loud.My family is small.
So because I don’t have more siblings, let alone a sister, Charlie’s family fascinated me.
I HAVE VERY GOOD NEWS.You know that thing of how every contemporary is basically the same?
It’s all very flat and not good.You also know, if you know me, that thing of how I read infinity contemporaries and like absolutely zero of them.
This also means some flat non-family characters and some annoying underdone subplots and a little too much drama maybe.
Basically this book was giving me HGTV and pre-divorce pre-infidelity pre-teenage Jon & Kate Plus Eight and I was getting my absolute life.What else, what else...Oh Morgan Matson does that thing where she brings characters from past books in, which like...I normally hate.
Her 4 siblings Danny, JJ, Mike, and Linnie are going to spend the weekend in the Grant home for one last time before her parents sell the house.
The book start with the grant family reuniting but also with the news that their event planner was embezzling money and is no longer their event planner for obvious reasons.Charlie has to pick a college to attend, but she’s not sure she wants to leave home especially when her parents are selling the house, so she is considering going to the college in her town.
Super cute! I loved the family and all the funniness! Can’t wait to read more of Morgan Matson‘s books!
Will read/buy anything she writes
so reading books about large family dynamics is always exciting for me because i get a chance to experience something unfamiliar.
and i think family is the one thing this book did right.
it felt very real and genuine, which was refreshing because the rest of the book was quite absurd.
unfortunately, it just became more frustrating than it was funny, as it just felt all over the place with too much going on.
and even though the storyline itself fell short for me, the focus on what it means to be a family and appreciating those who love you was the books one redeeming quality.↠ 3.5 stars
I loved this SO much and I am very emotional. I think it might’ve knocked Amy & Roger from my #2 spot of favorite MM books.I won’t really talk in depth about much to spare anyone the waiting but I LOVED the characters, the big family, and all the hijinks. SO MUCH GOOD STUFF.Will probably reread and do a video review closer to when the book releases in June.
i adore weddings, like its such a fun time for celebration ft. mountains of food and a free space where no one will judge you for stuffing your facehonestly, does it get better??so going into this book, i was highkey ready for that 5 star rating and well, i didn't dislike it, but it didn't shake my world either  Pros - BIG. NOISY. FAMILY.- fun, lighthearted, family-oriented plot - ft. //that// brother that always has the lame jokes that everyone rolls their eyes at but secretly loves- disasters
usually i adore Matson's love interests, but this one really seemed like a sub-sub plot and the whole love triangle dynamic had me uninterestedoverall, it was a really fun, summer, read and i would totally recomend it as something lighthearted and fun but i didn't feel like it was a book you could get lost inside3.5 stars!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I REQUESTED THIS ON NETGALLEY ON A WHIM AND SOMEHOW I GOT ACCEPTED HOW DID THIS HAPPEN IM SO FJDAKLFJDAL;FJA EXCITED AND HAPPY much thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for accepting my request.
But I felt like I needed, for just a moment, to appreciate what I was - what we all were - leaving behind."  Save the Date was such an enjoyable, comfy read.
They were funny, imperfect, loving and so real.
It felt like I was in their house the entire time I was reading.
The plot revolves around Linnie's wedding and the weekend of festivities which coincide with the mom's final installment of her famed comic strip which was loosely based off the family.
Charlie's love for her brothers & sister and her utter devotion to the Grant family shine through so vividly.
More like a 3.5 BECAUSE I'VE NEVRR BEEN MORE STRESSED READING THIS BOOK. BUT DAMN. POIGNANT THERE AT THE END. I feel like as an adult, I got it, it resonated in me, but to a teen this could be just a fun read. But type A personality almost DNF this book so hard. Oh gosh, some scenes I wish I read while taking shots. LOL
Ohhhh. This was so FUNNY and CUTE. My first Morgan Matson’s book :).
It was that feeling like when the lights come up after a movie—how it takes a minute to let go of the world you’d been immersed in. I've been patiently waiting for this newest Matson's book, back when its release date had been set for the same day as Sarah Dessen's Once and For All, both surrounding the wedding season, though, the latter is more on planning than attending one. Save the Date still holds the same hectic atmosphere since the main event - the wedding - is taking place at the Grant'
Like my favorite quote from To All the Boys I've Loved Before conveys: 'You'd rather make up a fantasy version of somebody in your head than be with a real person.’I mean, I can’t stop thinking about this:“Jesse didn’t move over from his spot on the middle cushion, so when I sat on the couch, I was closer to him than I had ever been before, except for two memorable occasions—when we’d been stuck in an elevator together at a laser tag place for Mike’s fourteenth birthday, and a memorable car ride when I was twelve and we’d been coming back from playing mini golf in Hartfield, all of us crammed into the car, and somehow, I’d ended up in the way back next to Jesse, Mike on his other side.
3.75/5It was all about a wedding which is my jam so I loved reading behind the scenes of one.
I also enjoyed how it mostly centered around the Grant family & the complexity of the relationships between them all.🍰 🐶I’m not going to lie, this book annoyed me at times.
Almost every situation if something could go wrong, it did...big time.
🍰Overall I did really enjoy this book and would say it’s a great summer read.
It’s long but fast to fly through and you will fall in love with the Grant family & Waffles The dog of course!
This book had one of the best family dynamics that I’ve read in a long time. So loving, so flawed and so funny!
Oh my goodness, this was every sort of lighthearted, introspective, heartwarming, and relatable fun I was hoping for in a new Morgan Matson book.
She and Maurene Goo both have this amazing ability to write the most realistic, lovable characters who feel like complex people you could totally know.
She has 4 older siblings (so a good chunk of the characters are in their twenties) and has kind of put her family on a pedestal in her mind.
And the romance & guy stuff isn't the focus of the story, but it's cute and realistic!I seriously LOVED the characters here so, so much.
3.5/5 stars
Save the Date is absolutely wonderful. it's funny and touching and just... wonderful. I love the focus on thr Grant family, and it was really cool to see the dynamic among the family as a whole unit as well as in smaller groupings. And all the wedding hijinks are amazing. Full review to come!Pre-review:I can't make this stupid gif load correctly, but to quote Tom Haverford: "This is America. I want it now!"
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I wanted this book as soon as I saw the cover. Naturally that meant I was denied an ARC and had to wait for the library to listen to another of my “please sir, may I have some more” requests for it to be purchased. I went into Save the Date hoping for something reminiscent of this . . . .  Without so much of this . . . . But with some of this . . . .  And that’s pretty much what I got so YAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAY! This is the story of the
With expectations for the perfect day, what could possibly go wrong?????
If you are an actual young adult and not an old adult like myself PLEEEEEEEEEASE take this rating with a grain pound of salt.
It was cute and fluffy and the perfect summertime read and I will absolutely check out more by Morgan Matson after reading this.
It just wasn’t a real world changer due to the familiarity of the plot and I’m also not a giant fan of slapstick comedy or every minute detail being covered regarding flowers and dresses and hair like a freaking Pinterest dream board.
The characters were all extremely lovable and somehow this book made it feel like I actually grew up with the Grant family.The story revolves around Charlie, whose older sister Linnie is getting married in a backyard wedding at their home for one last hoorah before her parents sell the house.
The family is set for an interview with Good Morning America the day after the wedding to discuss the comic coming to a close and showing the world who the Grant's really are.Now before we get to the end, let's get to the DISASTER that led up to Linnie's wedding.
RATING: 4.5/5One of my most anticipated releases of 2018 and it was completely worth the wait ☺This would make an AMAZING movie!
RATING: 4.5/5One of my most anticipated releases of 2018 and it was completely worth the wait ☺️This would make an AMAZING movie!
To me, “Save the Date” reads like a comedy in which everything goes wrong all the time, to the point that it’s not even realistic anymore.
Charlie wants for everything to go perfectly; needless to say, things go awry pretty quickly, and the plot turns into a predictable series of unfortunate events.
But all in all, this novel was very underwhelming, and I can’t help wondering why Morgan Matson chose this plot to write a book about nostalgia, letting go and growing up.
The themes were interesting, albeit too overt, but combined with the silly plot, “Save the Date” makes for a pretty underwhelming and predictable novel.
Our main character, Charlie Grant (the youngest of the 5 siblings), is thrilled to have all of her siblings home for the wedding, especially when the Grant family will once again be reunited in a long time, and they're determined to make everything perfect; until the wedding planner quits on literally last minute, and chaos ensues, so anything you can imagine can go wrong for a wedding did go wrong.I loved how we see Charlie's progression throughout the entire book, the author did that perfectly, because many teenagers can be annoying and bratty and petty.
This book is truly about family and the struggles and how change can actually be good for us.Charlie Grant and her family have been known by America for the past 25 years.
Morgan Matson does an incredible job of including fights and what Charlie feels like as the youngest of the family.✗ NOT A LOVE STORYI went in to Save The Date expecting it to be a love story like all of Morgan Matson’s other works.
honestly i will probably like anything morgan matson writes. this book is so stressful tbh. as the summary suggests, lots of things go awry before/during/after this wedding and it constantly put me on edge. but there's such beauty in the family dynamic, in the gradual way charlie learns to transition into a new stage of her life, and in the coming-of-age/stepping-into-adulthood activity of recognizing that an idealization is not truth.
2.5 stars?I had only heard gushing reviews of how great this book was, so I was pretty excited for it when I finally got around to it.
The family was huge and because there were so many people to keep track of, no one felt fleshed out.
And I legit couldn’t keep track of the brothers.
Plot wise it was bland.
Several of the plot lines seemed unnecessary and there for no purpose other than to fill a page.Overall, it was a cute idea and there was a lot of potential, but the family dynamic just didn’t click.
**Huge thanks to Simon & Schuster for providing a finished copy free of charge**
*3.5 Stars*This book is very cute and family oriented! It follows the hectic day of and day before Linnie’s wedding. It was pretty entertaining but all of the chaos did start to get to be a little overboard. Also, in my opinion Charlie is way too immature for her age. But I did enjoy this nonetheless!
Oh hi, new Morgan Matson book.
I had no idea you existed.
WHY DID I HAVE NO IDEA YOU EXISTED.Okay guys I am FREAKING OUT about this now.
Sadly it's not 2017, but early 2018 is better than late 2018!!
This sounds so adorable, I love weddings and chaos.
I'm super surprised that it's only 288 pages though, like whaaattt?
I love long contemporaries, but I'm sure this'll still be amazing.
I CAN'T EVEN CONTAIN MY EXCITEMENT OVER THE COVER REVEAL.
This is gonna be one heck of a cover, folks.I'm gonna go now, bye!
Talk to you again once this baby has a cover.
Charlie Grant has been looking forward to her sister Linnie's wedding for a very long time.
With her childhood crush making appearances, her somewhat estranged brother coming back, surprise girlfriends, missing wedding planners and more crazy circumstances, it makes for a busy weekend for Charlie.The book takes place over a couple days but isn't slow and thus draws you in.
Fans of Morgan Matson's other novels with thoroughly enjoy this book.
It's a sweet book and I hope you all enjoy it!!
I kinda had a weird like/hate relationship with this book but because I like how things were wrapped up in the end, I'm giving this 3 stars.
What I enjoyed about the book was the interesting family dynamics, Charlie's love life, and her uncertainty about the future.
In some ways the book felt incomplete as some characters and story lines just never felt fully fleshed out.
I did like how things were wrapped up because there was still a bit of uncertainty about what the future holds for Charlie and her family and that's good because I don't need every ending in a book to be neat and tidy.
