https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815491.Big_Two_Hearted_River
I appreciate nature and how Hemingway honors it in this short story: how nature can heal, how it can bring you back to your core, and how it can simplify life and remind you of what matters.
You could read this story as a man's straightforward, quiet foray into the scenery for some time off.
No matter how you read it, the story is grounding, this short tale of how purity and happiness can spring from scenery and nature.A drab and boring story in many ways, but it does offer tidbits to appreciate, in particular for those who enjoy Hemingway's sparse style.
I go fishing every day -- in my mind.
So a fishing/camping short story by one of my favorite authors is a can't lose read for me.I love nature and Hemmingway's descriptions of the scenery, and the simple tasks involved with camping and fishing a trout stream really hit home.
No matter what the reason for his escape, the trip is definitely healing of any ill.
This short story is calling me back to the north woods of the UP of Michigan.
I will definitely fish the Big Two-hearted river some day.
"Nick was happy as he crawled inside his tent .... It had been a hard trip. He was very tired .... He had made his camp. He was settled. Nothing could touch him. It was a good place to camp."Lesson?Be like Nick.
When reading this story I felt as though I was there with Nick; experiencing the same things he experienced, doing as he did.
I personally love the great outdoors, so reading about how Nick set up his camp and caught food interested me.
The absence of plot was a brilliant choice that Hemingway made when writing this story.
Being able to have your own personal take on a story is very important to me.
It adds a personal touch and allows you to better connect to the story.
Even though Hemingway states that Nick is happy quite often, I felt as though there was a sad undertone to the tale.
This story is simple and enjoyable all the way through, however I wasn't greatly impacted by it in any way. The “iceberg theory” fell short on me here. While I understand that there are definitely underlying themes of nature and recovery here, the story leaves a little too much of the ice under the water (which I’m not sure is actually there) for me to pull from. For myself, the beautiful descriptions of wildlife are the main reason for reading it.
Read in The Snows of Kilimanjaro and Other Stories. Nick goes on a fishing trip. A story about man and nature, and how nature can offer a needed respite from difficulties and challenges.
What's with Hemingway and fish? I don't get it
The most boring story in his collection
Hemingway the legend. I guess you don't have to read all Hemingway to know Hemingway.This was an experience.
เรือยๆเปือยๆเหมือนไมมีอะไร แตมันมี..
เรื่อยๆเปื่อยๆเหมือนไม่มีอะไร แต่มันมี..
Not one of my favorites by Mr. Hemingway. I don’t really know how to critique it, it was a pretty simple story. Basic theme that I like, but just not enough meat there. Serenity, simplicity, coping, ‘getting away to get back’, and just taking your time in life to stop and smell the roses - I think that’s what this story is about.
the second half, when nick wakes up to fish, is okay, I guess. He's trying to be at peace and fights with a fish, but it's hardly the worst battle he's faced!
- Old Man at the Bridge 3/5- The End of Something 4/5- The Battler 3/5- Soldier's Home 5/5- Cross Country Snow 3/5- My Old Man 3/5- Big Two-Hearted River 5/5- The Undefeated 2/5- In Another Country 3/5- Fifty Grand 2/5- Now I Lay Me 4/5- A Day's Wait 5/5
Ник дълго време не свали очи от тях.Той наблюдаваше как устояват с глава срещу течението, безброй пъстърви в дълбоката вода, леко деформирани, когато ги гледаше отвисоко, през стъклената изпъкнала повърхност на вира, чиято вода се издуваше от напора срещу подпорите на моста.
Когато сянката на птицата се плъзна над реката, зад нея се стрелна голяма пъстърва и сянката й очерта ъгъл; когато изскочи от водата и блесна на слънцето, сянката й изчезна; щом отново се скри под повърхността, сянката сякаш заплува надолу до старото място под моста, където рибата изведнъж се изпъна и увисна с глава срещу течението.При вида на пъстървата сърцето на Ник замря.
Personally, I wouldn’t recommend it for someone like me since I am not a very good reader and am easily distracted if the book doesn’t attract me right away.
It doesn’t have a very interesting and distinctive storyline and is more about describing the nature Nick sees and what he thinks and is doing.
It is very descriptive and to the point so for people who like that kind of reading, would love this book.
I still think it’s a great book though.
I'm supposed to love this: it's Hemingway and it's about the UP and fishing.
What's not to love?
I like the simple story and the concept.
I found it simple and repetitive.
If the meaning and art can only be understood as part of the whole Nick Adams stories, I guess I'll be missing it.It did take me back to all the classic literature discussion of High School English: where symbolism and hidden meaning reign.
I prefer an interesting story that is well-told to a lame but historically significant one.
Maybe because I don't have the school M'arm leading the pointed discussion, but there you have it.
Big Two-Hearted River is a masterpiece, the cleanest, purest story I ever read. Every line is right. Every movement of the story is right. Nick Adams goes fishing, and Ernest Hemingway gets every line cast perfectly to the deep spots in the river. Adams's satisfaction is the best satisfaction I've ever read. The happiness and contentment build until they couldn't be sustained without a gaffe, but they are sustained until the last word has gone.
Interesting because of the unique northern Michigan setting and the literary technique (Hemingway’s “iceberg theory”). It seems like nothing happens, but everything is simmering just below the surface. Honestly, though, if someone hadn’t told me it was about the trauma of World War I, I don’t think I would’ve figured it out on my own.
Several short stories bring out pieces of the American character, while the final story sums up the idea of lost youth and innocence. It also addresses the questions of whether those youthful memories of the good old days are really as accurate as we would like to believe.
I know that a lot of people is fond of Hemingway and I think I can see why... but his writings and his style just don't match my taste, I guess. I've read other works by him as well, doesn't interest me much.
Read for ENG 2520. I think I like Hemingway! I love finding the hidden treasures in literature, and with his iceberg writings i get that. With all the other texts I've been reading though I haven't been able to dive in like I like to, so this was refreshing and back to how I like to read.
My goodness, Ernest Hemingway was one sad dude.
The best fishing story I 've read
Good short story about fishing in Michigan. Mainly for guys, but it's really arresting.
Typowy Hemingway. Nic dodać, nic ująć.
Very satisfactory.
There is a gentleness to the way Ernest Hemingway wrote that appeals to me greatly. Peaceful, calm, still.
My favourite short story of Ernest Hemingway effortlessly eschewing hardship and simplicity but with a much deeper meaning than first meets the eye. A great introduction to his short story works.
The more I read Hemingway the more I appreciate his stories. He is demanding and evocative as he explores the misty human psyche.
Makes me want to try fishing. Isn't it great reading a story which just 'is'.
