https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51541.Death_at_an_Early_Age
Winner of the National Book Award in 1967, Jonathan Kozol’s Death at an Early Age: The Destruction of the Hearts and Minds of Negro Children in the Boston Public Schools is the story of a new teacher recruited to finish the year with a group of African-American students.
In a school where white teachers take minority students to the basement to hit them with a rattan, Kozol makes it clear that it’s him and his students (and eventually his students’ parents) versus “the system.” The institution is represented by the Art Teacher, the Reading Teacher, and a piece of cardboard covering a broken window.
The author, Jonathan Kozol, taught for a short time as a white teacher in a predominantly black Boston city school in the 1960s.
He was ultimately fired for introducing his fourth grade students to a Langston Hughes poem called "Ballad of the Landlord" which he read in an attempt to spark his class interest in something, anything " Kozol's first person narrative about his experience reads like Dickensian novel.
And these are just of the insidious ways blatant prejudice was administered on a daily basis in the city's public schools.Living in the Boston area, I picked the book up after hearing an interview with the author on the 50th anniversary of the book's publication.
I first read this book soon after it was published, when I was a second year teacher at a public junior high school in Vallejo, CA, that had about 10% black students. I had done my intern teaching at Berkeley (CA) High School during the volatile summer of 1967, to a mixed class, about half black, half white, and mixed from the 10 stage tracking system from track 1 (one step below honors) to mentally retarded (as it was then called). This book was an eye-opener and guide in my struggles to learn how to teach.
a very outrageous account of a teacher in a segregation school in Boston in the 60's. If you hear on tv that the crime rate among African Americans is very high and you are angry about it, READ THIS BOOK. there are certain things you should be much angrier about.
I first read this book when I was a beginning teacher. The book relates Kozel's experience teaching in the Roxbury section of Boston. The circumstances are unimaginable for this wealthy country, but he told the truth as he lived it and taught within it.
One of the best books I have ever read and probably ever will read. Life changing.
The teachers are in no way sympathetic, and Kozol fails to understand why they do what they do.
He is also very ahead of his time, defending black culture, language, actions, and history without restraint.The other issue is that the school system acts upon the black students, robbing them of agency unless they act out, which Kozol approves of, seeing it I presume as a budding civil rights activism.
Much worse, the school system continues to fail its students, and in ways still much as Kozol, describes.
Death At an Early Age was a hard book to finish, but even harder to put down.Substitute teacher Jonathan Kozol left his mark on literature by publishing this, his memoir of a year in Boston Public Schools.
It's an obscene mark on our country's storied history of civil rights that experiences like Kozol's were likely not unique for young teachers in so-called integrated educational settings.
While reading his memoir, I often found myself wondering what the other teachers (and even students) in his school would have to say about the author, but I have no reason to think Mr. Kozol exaggerated the harsh realities of a young educator.
Truthfully, I am both disappointed and thankful that it has taken me this long to finish "Death at an Early Age." Disappointed because this book has been one of the most devastatingly beautiful and reaffirming books I've read in years and I wish I had read it sooner.
Kozol is an expert in the field of education reform and as such, I found this book informative, thought-provoking, and sad.
I am thankful I waited until now to read it, however, because I fear that had I read it any sooner I would not have appreciated it in the same way.
It relates the story of a young teacher's first year in the educational system in the late 60s in the inner-city schools of Boston, and as such it focuses a great deal on racial discrimination, bigotry from teachers, administrators, and politicians, and the recalcitrance with which the same individuals rebelled against desegregation.
The book details the horrific conditions that poor black children had to suffer through in their schools; they literally did not have enough seats or classrooms, so that teachers had to teach 30+ student classes at opposite ends of a single auditorium, yelling over each other in an attempt to be heard.
Few books I've read were this shocking, angering and horrifying.
It's easy to approach this sort of material with a "that was a long time ago, things have changed" attitude.
In this case, simply put, not much has changed.
The inner city schools today are still, in many ways, perpetuating a failed educational model.
The common argument today, which Kozol alludes to, as it was the same argument made in the '60s, is that the root problem of academic failure rests with the home life of inner city students.
Needless to say, I highly recommend this bold and unflinching survey of the inner city school.
I was appalled by the conditions he described in the Boston public school in which he taught, but not surprised, The poor children have always been denied decent funding for education.
In a state of the State address to the Georgia legislature, then-governor Roy Barnes described the Hope Scholarship program as, "my anti-crime bill." Too bad more politicians don't speak out on the close knit connections between poverty, second-class education, and crime.
Kozol speaks to these issues loudly and clearly.Until the economically disadvantaged minority children in this country receive the same benefits from the education tax dollar as the upper and upper-middle class children, this book will remain a relevant, heart-breaking volume of truth.
I read this when I was pretty depressed about the nature of society. This, along with pedagogy of the oppressed, made me think that any kind of progressive movement must be bottom up. It must be support by the people it is "helping."Kozol's description of the little girl eating lead paint chips also made me cringed. I remember waking up in my dorm room 3am, pacing around the halls of my residence, wondering about what kind of world I lived in.
Disturbing in that when people read this they'll think "Oh, but that was in the 60s. This stuff doesn't happen in schools anymore." I identified so many similarities between the school Kozol describes and the school district in which I teach. Huge disparities and hugely depressing, but important for people to read. (Though honestly I'll have to wait to read any more by him until this summer when the promise of the coming school year helps negate his sobering observations.)
A depressing true story of the absolute decrepitude of the Boston school System in 1965, where black students were warehoused in condemnable buildings with no materials, no learning, hostile racist teachers, and no hope for the future, where their entire psyches were destroyed before they ever had a chance, preordained to fail by the system. Intolerable. If I want to go out and riot after reading it, I cannot imagine how awful it was to live it.
LOVED THIS BOOK. Kozol's account of his first few years as a teacher in an underfunded school in Boston. This book made me cry on the train because the scenes Kozol described (kids being dehumanized, ignored, abused, by the people who were supposed to love and care for them and help them succeed) felt so real and so unjust. Highly recommended for teachers and Bostonians.
jonathan kozol is definitely one of my heroes. this book was about inadequacies in the inner city boston schools in the 60's. the sad part is that not much has changed since then. inner city schools still suffer through the same problems. everyone should read this book.
As always, Mr. Kozol does an amazingly articulate job of bringing issues in our educational systems to light. The sad thing is that the issues he so eloquently discusses in 1965 are still many of the same issues I as a teacher am struggling with today in 2010.
Horrifying and heart-breaking account of the author's year as a teacher in the Boston Public Schools in 1964-65. The school conditions and the treatment of the African-American children are appalling. The author was fired for not following the proper course of study and for bringing in the poem "Ballad of the Landlord" by Langston Hughes for the children to read. A member of the Boston School Committee said "We have no inferior education in our schools. What we have been getting is an inferior type of student." That basically sums up how the black children were treated.
I have read the moving novel by Jonathan Kozol titled Death at an Early age.
It describes Jonathan Kozol’s teaching environment when he was appointed to teach a fourth grade class in a mostly african-american boston school in the mid nineteen sixties.
The theme of Death at an Early Age is that kids should not be mistreated in school because of their color, especially by teachers.
Death at an Early Age is a narration of the nineteen sixty-four and ‘sixty-five school year when the author, Jonathan Kozol, teaches a fourth grade class in a segregated school in Boston public schools.
When I received this book as a gift and read the title I felt it was too morbid, too poetic and perhaps manipulative of the reader but as I got the full scope of the book I realized that the title is very fitting.
This book is an excellent insight into the world of yesterday that still beams into the darkness of some schools now, not just in the States but everywhere.
I wondered how lucky it was that this writer got to that school in the first place and how his "patience" for the lack of a better word kept him there as a witness to tell this tale that I'm certain is one of hundreds and hundreds.
Death at an Early Age by Jonathan Kozol is a touching and enlightening story about the horrors and injustices of the Boston Public School System. Kozol was a teacher at one of Boston's inner-city schools in 1964. He soon after his hiring began to notice that the large percentage of black children at the school were not treated fairly. His book is an account of what he witnessed at the school.  The theme of the book can be found through paying attention to how Kozol acts and feels throughout the
Death at an Early Age by Jonathan Kozol is a touching and enlightening story about the horrors and injustices of the Boston Public School System.
Kozol was a teacher at one of Boston's inner-city schools in 1964.
He takes what he thought and saw back then, and adds in the view that he had while writing the book.
He compares himself to one of the many school faculty members who just stood by and watched as the atrocities continued.Death at an Early Age was the most captivating book I have ever read.
Recommended to me many years ago, this 1967 expose of Boston's public schools is still highly relevant today. Although school integration has become legally acknowledged throughout the country in the years since Kozol wrote this personal memoir, de facto segregation - by ethnicity and, even more prevalent, by economic and social circumstances - remains. The inequality of educational opportunities upon which Kozol shone so bright a light remains the scourge of American society.
The book made me realize how the school system was at that time and many things which happened there would not be tolerated today.
The teachers could do anything they wanted to without consequences.I believe the theme of the book is to appreciate what we have and not take things for granted.
They didn't have nice books or computers like we do, nobody really cared about how they were treated or what the teachers would say to them.
I liked everything in the book but it made me mad how this teacher could get away with anything she wanted.
area by Jonathan Kozol from his personal experience until his discharge from Teaching in 1965.
This book is simultaneously tragic and sweet, frighteningly horrible and delightful.
It is remarkably well written, considering the passion and personal investment Mr. Kozol has.
The Author reports with very little prejudice the unbelievably despicable acts and what was at that time considered to be "routine" behavior exhibited by everyone from the School Board to Teachers and Administrators to Parents on both sides of the Racial Divide.
This book is fascinating.
I think the authors purpose in writing this book is because he is trying to let us know how different the schools in the 60's are different than the schools now.
The theme of the book is about abuse teachers and what the teachers did.
This book is a true story, and it is written in the past.
My opinion of the book is that it is interesting and depressing.
Something that I liked about the book is that it is filled with information and facts.
Something I disliked about this book is that some points of it are just repeating and boring.
One of the books that helped me understand why teaching wasn't going to be an emotionally survivable career. My early 70s time in a Portland high school confirmed that I couldn't cope with the flaws of institutional schooling. Deschooling SocietyCrisis In The Classroom, The Remaking of American Education
The name really speaks for itself in this book, and it refers to the awful, degrading education that black elementary schoolers were given in an inner city school where Kozol was a long-term sub.
What I saw in Kozol then was an early antiracist who asked tough questions about his role in the system, which none of his fellow teachers seemed willing to do.
I never read Savage Inequalities, but this book about Kozol's first teaching job in the 1960's makes you think we should have come a lot farther from the publishing of this book and his most recent.
This is an unimaginably bleak depiction of inner city public schools in Boston in the mid 60's. The most frightening thing to me is the way his depictions of his colleague's superficially progressive, open-minded self-presentations mask overt but un-accknowledged bigotry feels really familiar living in Boston today.His 1985 post-script reveals a still bleak portrait of Boston public schools. In the 60's, schools were de facto segregated by income; if you lived in a poor black neighborhood, you were stuck in an unbelievably gruesome school. In the 80's, poor blacks, Hispanics and whites became illiterate together, in Kozol's words.
Although the writing was repetitive at times, this was a story that had to be told. Kozol pulls no punches about de facto segregation in the Boston Public Schools before the era of busing. Honestly, while conditions in the schools are better today, some of his words could easily be applied to students currently attending weaker schools in the system. I wrote down a favorite quotation: "The slowness of change is always respectable and reasonable in the eyes of the ones who are only watching; it is a different matter for the ones who are in pain."
