https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22288.Haunted
I'm only on p 75 of this thing and I'm about to hurl it at the wall.
What is it supposed to be?
Does this guy really think these lame parodies are funny?
So : is this supposed to be amusing?
Is it supposed to be stupid?
Only in the world of Chuck, this would be ROTFLMPO - that's right, Roll On The Floor Laughing My Penis Off!
Because it's gross, and it isn't that funny!**Update : the hurl has now been performed, and Chuck Palahnik's Haunted  sailed in a graceful arc then smashed against the wall, its guts spilled out and several rodents started gnawing them...oh shut up.
Apparently working in a vet clinic for the better part of 5 years is precisely the recipe required to inure one to the effects of Palahniuk's writing.You'll see tons of "OMG SO GWOSS!!" reviews here, but this ain't one of 'em.
What really sickens me is people.And that's what Palahniuk does best: he writes about the dark sides of people and how precious little it takes to make those sides surface.
I enjoyed turning the pages as each character tells his or her tale of how they had sunk so low.
And don't take Palahniuk's pretentious tale of Saint Gut-Free's story making people pass out at face value.
But Haunted is so much more than that and so worth reading.
Usually gruesome or grotesque, the stories eventually create the world each person inhabits, explain why they agreed to drop off the face of the earth for a while, and how they relate to the other characters in the book.
Narratives in between the character stories relate what's happening within the hotel.
Really, I can only think of two that made me want to stop reading, but I didn't - I pushed through.
And I encourage anyone who is thinking of reading Haunted to do the same thing.
I finished it, only because of my amazement at how bad it was and how it never deviated from that.I was intrigued by the premise: a group of writers volunteer to go on a retreat to write their masterpiece.
The book has a chapter of plot, followed by either a poem or short story from one of the participants.
All of the stories/poems are obviously written by the same person.
My only hope was that it would turn out to be ONE GUY with multiple personalities fighting writer's block.
THAT would have been cool, but no, it wasn't.Don't read this book!
It creates an outrageous yet believable scenerio and follows inexorably to its horrifying conclusion.
It's the one story that really stuck with me on a visceral (ha ha) level.The rest of the book reads like it's trying to keep up with the pace of the first story, but it can't.
For every story that almost hits the right stride (Exodus) there are those that just plain don't make sense (Punch Drunk, Something's Got to Give)This is the second Palanhuik book that I've read, and I think there really is something there.
Writers like Vonnegut push right to the boundary, then siddle a toe past.
This doesn’t surprise me at all, knowing the repulsive content of the story."Guts" is your mother, father, preacher and teacher shaking that disapproving finger at self pleasure.
The narrator Saint Gut-Free (who’s alias is explained at the end of the chapter) a specifically terrifying masturbation escapade.
While finding satisfaction in his family pool by sticking his rear end in the water intake at the bottom of the pool, Gut-Free finds his small intestines -in Layman’s terms- being sucked out of his asshole.
However, the tale doesn’t end here.
Thus he is "Gut-Free".
This book fucked me up!King was the first writer to scare the shit out of me.Robert Heinlein was the first to make me gaze at the stars.Terry Goodkind and JRR Tolkien were the first to make me love fantasy.Dan Millman was the first to make me want to be a better person.JK Rowling was the first to make me actually pay attention to YA fiction.....and now Palahniuk...
brilliant.
And Then There Were None is one of my all time favorite Christie novels.
All of them are written to shock yet the brevity of the tales keeps both writer and reader focused.
If this was a short story collection, I would rate it a strong three stars.Unfortunately it is not.
Yet anyone who perused my book list knows I'm not easily offended.
This is the third book by this author I've read.
The only reason I read three is because Pahalnuik is one hell of a writer at least technically.
And from the short stories in this book I know he can pack a punch when he wants to.
But this will probably the last Palahnuik book I will subject myself to.
The stories are all basically gross for the sake of being gross with little to no redeeming value.
Its so descriptive and disgusting I had to take a breather for fear of vomiting (i am not alone in this, he read this particular story at signings and people would have to leave the room, some even threw up right there)I guess if you judge a story's value by how much of a physical response it can incite, then this is Grade A material.
Otherwise I would say to avoid this one until you have read a good amount of his earlier work so as not to taint your judgement.
People who are just trying to be gross can't help but be entertaining, no matter how see-thru their intent.
You can't ignore the little boy who's trying to wipe his boogers on you, and when his parents have finally collared him, with anger and gag relex fully suppressed you have to admit the whole thing was actually pretty funny.
Chuck Paloonyhoonyhookiak is just trying to wipe his boogers on you.
This is the one that's apparently been making people faint at readings (though how anyone can actually lose consciousness simply listening to someone read something fictional, no matter how shocking, is beyond me), and it really is genuinely disgusting.
"My goal was just to write some new form of horror story, something based on the ordinary world.
A place only you could go, alone, when you opened the cover.Because only books have that power."Chuck is right; you don't want to keep this book by your bed.
Reminding you instantly of the horrors you read before bed, making your stomach churn.
This book is a bitch slap in the face reminder that some of these horrors that you will read happen in the world around you, and will make you nauseous and shift around in your seat from discomfort.
You will feel like you need to shower after reading some of these stories, that your brain needs deep cleaning.
First off, this is not the short story collection I was expecting.
It is actually a single-author antho-novel hybrid fulla leprechaun jism and other awesome rainbow flavors.
No, I mean to say, never write reviews while on Norco, Soma, and about 2 hours' worth of sleep outta 36.I've been trying to catch some Zs since I got home from my latest hospital stay and it's not going so well.
The latter actually made me physically uncomfortable while reading it.
One powerful goddamn story, friends and neighbors.
Probably this: Haunted was messed up and engaging to the fullest.
can we get another book with the word "Girl" or "Dark" in the title please?) it's a real treat when you read something that stands out and rises above the rest for not being like the others.
It's even more rewarding when such a different drummer has the chops to blow your mind.
well, let's just say you've never read anything like it.
It's well-written and engaging and beyond all else it is different.
The first story, "Guts," had a reputation for making listeners pass out when Pahlaniuk read it aloud at book signings.
My friend Jim and I also took great pleasure in reading that story aloud to oblivious victims.
I think he even read it to his mom.
My other favorite story is the one about the life-like dolls at the police station, just totally unbelievable.
One critic complained that this book was "too over the top," and it's like, dude, what the fuck do you think the point was?
Would a story involving dressing in drag and getting your ass kicked lead to fundraising for crashing planes?You bet it would.Haunted is an obnoxious mess that fails to get any reader buy-in to the things the characters are doing, and Chuck's signature style is turned up to eleven -- to the point that you're constantly reminded that you're reading a book by an author with an identifiable style.Would a Chuck Palahniuk satire be written that way?So Haunted is, at best, a self-satire by a writer who maybe recognizes his own tropes and wants to poke a little bit of fun.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/4.5 Stars  WRITER’S RETREAT:ABANDON YOUR LIFE FOR THREE MONTHS.Just disappear. Leave behind everything that keeps you from creating your masterpiece. Your job and family and home, all those obligations and distractions – put them on hold for three months. Live with like-minded people in a setting that supports total immersion in your work. Food and lodging included free for those who qualify. Gamble a small fraction of your life on the
With no way out and a cast of characters who aim to make their own personal experience worse than anyone else’s, the group soon finds themselves with no heat, little electricity and, let’s say, only unconventional food sources.A novel woven together with short stories and “poems” – a reader like me who generally doesn’t appreciate the short story gets the best of both worlds.
If you’re extra lucky, you’ll find yourself being asked by your family members “why do you have that horrified look on your face?” and get a chance to share your experiences with the whole gang .
This book is more of a 3.5 star read.
A group of people agree to participate in a "Writer's Retreat".
The stories begin with probably one of the best, most shocking short stories I've ever read-called Guts.
Some of the stories the people share are more interesting than others.
That's why the 3.5 stars instead of higher.
The thing that amazed me about this book was the way people act.
upload gif from urlDon't go into this book expecting an easy read though.
upload image onlineI think someone said about this book that the stories didn't scare me...the way people act did.
The storyteller jacking off in a pool hovering over the pool's suction shit so it's basically eating his ass whilst he jacks off and next thing you know it's sucking up his guts and he has to eat his asshole out to save himself.
"My goal was just to write some new form of horror story, something based on the ordinary world.
This would be a book you wouldn't keep next to your bed." -- Chuck PalahniukMr Palahniuk, this isn't horror, this is some vile shit, sir.
I get you wanted horror without supernatural monsters or magic, but these stories are not it!.
The book was a difficult read.
The twisted black humor will be lost on most but the few able to see it will enjoy the social commentary on a society obsessed with fame at any cost and the overwhelming selfishness that can drive seemingly ordinary people to climb over one another's lifeless corpses to achieve it.Do not pick this book up if you're a light reader.
Do not pick this book up if you have a weak stomach.
Do not pick this book up if you do not enjoy exploring the darker side of human nature.
Do not pick this book up.Really.
The literary equivalent of belching the alphabet.
To give an example, when Chuck Palahniuk gives a public reading of the short story "Guts", the ambulance shows up before the end of it.
Things go awry when these strangers gather for a writing retreat and the rest seems like an experiment in how horrible people can possibly be to each other.The format is an overarching story about the downward spiral of the retreat and peppered with the short stories of the attendees.
The end short story is the best, if you can make it that far.There is no "Love-hate" icon for this story.
Books alow you to travel to this deep, dark secret private place inside yourself.
I think one of the major themes of the books is that we are all haunted.
We all have our own demons and that the truth is much more terrifying than fiction.Perhaps the scariest thing about Haunted is this:Late one night while i read i noticed i was starting to nod off.
I placed the book on my bedside table and turned out the light.
None other than the face on the cover of Haunted.
Word of advice: keep the book in a drawer at night.
True to form, Palahniuk pens some of the most twisted F'd up characterizations in the business. Bizarre and disturbing, for sure. Prolapsed pearl diving, back alley foot jobs, Breather Betty dolls full of love, Punch a mime for $5, the bowling ball bans. What more do you want? Thumectomys, nightmare boxes, crab lice and Sasquatch cycles…yep. It’s in there.Palahniuk’s style is undeniable. Cutting dialog, over the top eccentric characters, demented plotting, all sprinkled with a generous amounts of humor and satire. I would expect nothing less. 3.5 Stars and recommended for all Palahniukians.
Toto je humor tak perverzne čierny, že i niektoré čierne diery sa pri ňom červenajú. Sama zo seba som znechutená, že ma to tak bavilo.J.P. Sartre&A.Christie vs.G.Boccaccio feat.Filip&Lasica&Satinský
And this is where things start getting tricky - you see there are stories within stories like an onion skin but rather than them being simple distractions or allegories for a different tale you quickly realise they are in fact something else.They are part of over all narrative giving both colour and depth to the authors in the group along with filling in some of the blanks the first part of the story has.They you have connecting pieces these are in effect a bridge between the two parts of the story.
DNF @ Page 58Palahniuk just isn't for me. While this isn't bad, it is the second book of his I've tried that I just don't enjoy. This one will be going up for sale on eBay.
They might not be bad people, but their interests don't always interest me.This is the sort of book I would have enjoyed in high school when I was reading Bret Easton Ellis and Irvine Welsh and thought cutting-edge literature meant that it was good literature.
Just write a solid book that stands on its own, stop trying to impress your public, stop trying to be cutting-edge and cool because it doesn't work.I give this two stars because I could actually finish it and I understood what Palahniuk was trying to say.
this book reminds me of a warped version of 1984 by George Orwell with the friendly ghost being the big brother that watches these people he's locked up until they share their stories.The stories themselves (most off the time) are so far fetched and gore infested that you feel yourself feeling sick or spontaneously laughing out loud, carrot cake in the butt to people who have everything yet choose to live with nothing.Although this book is a gore feast and a complete mindfuck I could not help relating some of the parts and references to a representation of real life and I feel Chuck Palahniuk based it on the song Hotel CaliforniaYou can check out anytime you likebut you can never leavewhere the controllers in the book represent some of the worlds current events, war, supposed government control etc (this is were I may have read to much into it)Instead, Miss America asks, Is this how it will go?
I made the mistake of reading a couple of reviews on Haunted while I was halfway through the novel.
Anyone that has read a Palahniuk novel before knows what they are getting themselves into.
(Yes, there's beauty in this book.) Anyone can write about gore, dismemberment, 'Guts', and a whole slew of unappetizing subjects, BUT no one can put you in the moment like good ol' Chuck.
That's the beauty of a Palahniuk novel- you might need to take a break from him from time to time, but you'll always find yourself coming back.
Quanto è alto il prezzo che un essere umano è pronto a pagare per la sua brama di celebrità?
Chi sarebbe disposto a passare tre mesi completamente isolato su un’isola deserta per ottenere i suoi quindici minuti di gloria?Queste sono le domande fondamentali sulla vita, l'universo e tutto quanto di questo libro.La storia ci viene raccontata dai protagonisti sotto forma di una sorta di diapositive del passato.
Ma qui è diverso o perlomeno, a me, dopo il ghigno mi è salita una sorta di inquietudine, come se tra me e me dicessi:"C...o, ma non è poi così irreale...".E come dice Ammaniti sulla copertina, Se avete lo stomaco debole, lasciatelo stare!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n_Mas...
