https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89724.We_Have_Always_Lived_in_the_Castle
Three are left: Uncle Julian, left crippled by the poison, hanging on to the remnants of his mind, obsessed with the tragedy of the day of the murder; Constance, an agoraphobiac trapped in the narrow confines of her domestic universe, cooking for the remnants of her family with a strained chirpy attitude - a young woman who was also the cook on the day of the fateful arsenic poisoning and therefore is considered the poisoner in the eyes of the villagers; and Mary Katherine, Merricat, the narrator of the story, now eighteen, who was sent to her room without dinner on the day of the poisoning, who now serves as a link between her diminished and scorned family and the rest of the world.For a careful reader, the identity of the poisoner is really very easy to figure out after the first few pages.
Now the three survivors—along with their black cat Jonas—are living together in deliberate tranquility, when long-lost cousin Charles arrives on their doorstep, barely concealing his interest in the lovely Constance and the Blackwood family estate.The narrative voice of Merrycat—nickname for Mary Katherine—is perhaps the most distinctive thing about the novel.
The two sisters were inspired by Jackson’s two daughters, the placid and cautious Constance by Joanne and the superstitious and daring Merrycat by Sarah.
I am eighteen years old, and I live with my sister Constance.
much to the gossiping villagers horror and delight.Merricat has a wistful, gentle insanity; Constance has petrifying agoraphobia; and Uncle Julian is on a loop - constantly obsessing over discovering what happened during the last Blackwood dinner.Everyone in the village wonders, constantly, 
Merricat decides she must get rid of him before he discovers who killed the Blackwoods but how will she accomplish this with suspicious villagers crowding in at all sides and his own stubbornness to contend with?Bizarre and haunting throughout - the writing is beautiful and the story is riveting.I was absolutely swept into this story - I absolutely loved the characters.
The library was my start and the black rock was my goal." And as she navigates this terrain full of landmines in the form of other people who taunt her and laugh at her, she can't help flashing her own hostility: "They saw me at once, and I thought of them rotting away and curling in pain and crying out loud; I wanted them doubled up and crying on the ground in front of me." Until at last she reaches the sanctuary of her home.It's a sanctuary that's as much magical as physical: "I had to put down the shopping bag to open the lock on the gate; it was a simple padlock and any child could have broken it, but on the gate was a sign saying PRIVATE NO TRESPASSING and no one could go past that." And then she sees the most important person in her life, her sister Constance, and her Uncle Julian--the last surviving members of her family.***But almost immediately, that sanctuary is violated.
You will be wondering about that sugar bowl, I imagine. Is it still in use? You are wondering; has it been cleaned? You may very well ask; was it thoroughly washed? This book is looney tune. I'm not even sure about some things that happened. One of my GR friends needs to message me so we can discuss some things on this book. (Of course no one will read this so it's a mute point) So Constance, Merricat, and Uncle Julian live in the home together with all of their land enclosed. The rest of the f
You will be wondering about that sugar bowl, I imagine.
One of my GR friends needs to message me so we can discuss some things on this book.
Merricat is the only one that leaves to get groceries and books in town where she is picked on by everyone.
She had a lot of different macabre thoughts through-out the book.
The book was just so strange and I enjoyed that, even though it made me feel crazier than I am!
I was hoping he was going to meet a macabre end himself.
Either way, I enjoyed the book Mel ❤️
It was also social commentary in that delicious way that only Southern Gothicism can offer (though this novel has no clear mention of place, it is widely believed to have been set in Vermont, making it technically not Southern Gothic, though every other aspect of it is every bit that genre): it tore back the layers on the small town where everyone knows your name, on the myth of genteelism, courtesy, manners, and community that we all think of from this era of writing (Castle was originally published in 1962).
A.K.A.: Grey Gardens by William Faulkner. Are these unfortunate souls dead or alive in their domestic limbo? Oh, this is one delicious yarn with plenty of turns--with a terror that comes to us only by the Literary Mistress of the Dark Herself, Shirley Jackson. The luxurious morbidity, the Harper Lee Goth cynicism of the book, it is all an absolute delight. I am truly beginning to think that all of her books are like this one--the classiest horror of ALL TIME.
Castle is a chilling late-night walk through the haunted forests of human consciousness, a gripping psychological horror ripping through the idyllic American classic feel of the novel to expose the Gothic terrors that drench the New England landscapes.We always fear what we don’t understand.
Jackson sets the reader into this world without making them feel ill at ease through her style, a familiar embrace of tone and structure which recalls the small town American classics.
It’s this sort of nostalgia for high school classics that immediately opens your heart to the book, but not just in structure but the plot, setting and characters as well.
Ah Merricat, silly Merricat, I do believe I love you.
What I found so wonderful about this novel was the consistency of Merricat's insanity.
Her superstitions I found charming, and the lengths she will go to in order to remain alone, well, that is the crux of this novel.
Merricat, silly Merricat, one day I will go into the village and distribute much-needed and much-deserved vengeance on your only somewhat illusory tormentors, and then I will go off (I dare not approach your house---such is forbidden) to await you on the moon.
I might be the only person in the world who thinks this book is too weird, senseless, anticlimactic and almost plotless. The characters however are charismatic in their craziness. It's just not my type of crazy.
I thought that I've seen everything there is to read.
We Have Always Lived in the Castle almost...almost!
Merricat has mostly her elder sister Constance to live with.Death by arsenic is a painful way to die.
I've been fascinated by arsenic ever since I read The Mysterious Affair at Styles.
Anyway family members of Merricat die, and she lives on.
A fact that she would die rather than admit.Merricat is quite the fashionista.
Death is a favorite subject of mine.
Things aren't tied up in a bow by the end - read it for yourself to see.
Oh no, said Merricat, you'll poison me." The stranger asks around about this apparently-haunted house, and eventually, through flashbacks, its entire terrifying history is revealed.Another writer could have easily tackled We Have Always Lived in the Castle in this way, and the book would have been just as good.
It's a ghost story without ghosts - or, more accurately, a story of how a person becomes a ghost.Our view into this house comes from Mary Katherine Blackwood, an eighteen-year-old girl who lives in Blackwood House with her older sister Constance (who is so severely agoraphobic that she can't venture past the yard) and her Uncle Julian, who is confined to a wheelchair and not quite in his right mind.
I hate you, Shirley Jackson.I HATE YOU!!I mean, I know you're dead and all, but still.
I want to drive to your haunted house in Vermont and throw rocks at your windows.I want to smash every pumpkin, carved, by your front door.I want to hold a séance in your bedroom to summon your spirit, then I want to pull those ugly ass bobby pins from your hair, rip those ugly ass dated glasses off your nose and pull that ugly ass cable knit sweater over your face.And then.
Just another homicidal paranoid-schizophrenic proto-hippy 18 year old girl-child who lives with her older agoraphobic/social-phobic sister and dementia-sufferer wheelchair-bound uncle in an isolated house in the aftermath of a dreadful family tragedy whereby all of the family except these three were poisoned to death in that very house.
I know three similar cases here in Nottingham, and I could have told Cousin Charles Blackwood, who turns up crudely attempting to prise the purported family fortune from the sisters’ wayward limbs, that he needn’t have bothered.
His blundering honking outside-world male sensibleness will just come apart in his hands; he has no chance against a homicidal paranoid-schizophrenic proto-hippy 18 year old girl-child.
any minute now I'm going to think "Where has this book been all my life?" ...
any minute now I'm going to see what everyone else sees in this book and cream my acid-washed Jordaches.
Look at it this way - you can paint the most realistic image of a cantaloupe, a piece of artwork that looks as if you can just reach out and grab one of those gorgeous melons and bite right into that fucker, but at the end of the day, it's only a picture of a fucking cantaloupe.
Final Judgment: A relaxing massage without the happy ending.
good stuff.(review to come)
Κακές μάγισσες που είναι πληγωμένες νεράιδες.Ζουν σε ένα γοτθικό επιβλητικό κάστρο, όπου φαντάσματα δηλητηριασμένων νεκρών και μοχθηροί γερασμένοι δράκοι, τριγυρνούν στους ατέλειωτους διαδρόμους και στις κατακόμβες του.
Το κάστρο, όμως, είναι ένα υπέροχο πλούσιο σπίτι, επιβλητικά διακοσμημένο, καθαρό, φωτεινό, ηλιόλουστο και ασφαλές.
Έξω απο τον φράχτη και την πυκνή βλάστηση που περιβάλλει το «κάστρο» -τονίζοντας πως είναι ένας τόπος εγκλήματος- υπάρχει μια απέραντη κόλαση τεράτων.Σαρκοβόρα, σαπισμένα και μοχθηρά πλάσματα που προσπαθούν να χορτάσουν με θόρυβο, ενοχές, αναμνήσεις και αίμα.
Παραπλανητική και απλά λυρική ιστορία, στοιχειωμένη δομή που εξελίσσεται μαζί με την πλοκή και δημιουργεί ένα μικρό,συγκλονιστικό έργο.
Μια τρυφερή, διαταραγμένη, ψυχολογική νεύρωση αγάπης και απομόνωσης διατρέχει όλη την τραγική ιστορία του βιβλίου.
I’m just going to come right out and say it: Shirley Jackson knows how to tell a story. Though she may be best known for her work in the psychological suspense genre, I’m pretty convinced she was not limited by this label, nor would she have been by any other, and this work would most likely fall into the “other” category. But there’s no reason to take my word for it; even Oliver (view spoiler)[    (hide spoiler)] found himself drawn to her work, enthralled by her words, and taken in by her char
I’m just going to come right out and say it: Shirley Jackson knows how to tell a story.
But there’s no reason to take my word for it; even Oliver (view spoiler)[
(hide spoiler)] found himself drawn to her work, enthralled by her words, and taken in by her characters to such an extent that his appetite for Jackson’s novel was all-consuming.
Are the villagers as chillingly terrible as Mary Katherine Blackwood would have us believe, and as we are confident she herself believes?
Is there perhaps something more deviant and sinister to the Mary Katherine whose older sister playfully admonishes as “Silly Merricat”?
Not horror, no gore or monsters, it’s better than that.
We outgrow our fear of creatures that go bump in the night; so immured by the constant bombardment of blood & guts on TV that we can barely work up the energy to cringe anymore – but the fear of losing your mind?
So yeah, stories like this work for me way more than pure horror.
If you’re in the mood for something that’s a bit twisted & definitely weird - but in the good way - give it a try.
High Gothic ArtHawthorne, Poe, Lovecraft, and even James: Jackson is in their company when it comes to the Gothic genre.
No gimmicks, no spiritualist allusions, no unlikely situations: Jackson puts later writers like Stephen King to shame with her talent and wit.Someone is a homicidal maniac, but which of the Blackwood sisters is it?
When the sinister cousin Charles come to visit, the question becomes more than academic.The village itself is part of the mystery.
She provokes participation by the reader who fills in the descriptive gaps like the eye automatically interprets perspective.This is more than genre horror or fantasy.
Jackson writes literary fiction.
On the moon we had gold spoons.” And, to her sister, Constance:“Oh Constance, we are so happy.”Who replies and often says, "Silly, silly Merricat."But she also says things like this, about the people of the town:“I'm going to put death in all their food and watch them die.”Six years ago, several of the Blackwood family were poisoned, from arsenic sprinkled with sugar on a bowl of blackberries.
At turns creepy, delightful, dark, with a touch of black humor, the book also features Constance, Merricat's caretaker sister, weirdly hilarious Uncle Julian, and greedy Cousin Charles who comes to live in the castle for a time.
Like The Haunting of Hill House, it's not the outright horror scenes that make the book shine, but the way the characters are unstable, what it means, and how it drives the details and the horror of the final scenes.
For anyone in love with psychology, Shirley Jackson is a treasure trove of discussable characters.
Even if she hadn't, it'd drive most people insane.Shirley Jackson is a master at turning normal people into monsters, and this book is no different.I know a ton of modern horror writers who give this author major props and I have to say, it's all very well deserved.
(hide spoiler)] As she runs errands, you can gauge the tension between her family and the town, but don’t quite know what the underlying cause is.This book reads like an Addams Family episode without the jokes, the 7 foot tall butler, the disembodied hand and cousin It. It’s an eccentric family dialed up to 11.
Jackson modeled her fictional town after North Bennington, Vermont.About the ending: (view spoiler)[ The townsfolk take the opportunity after a fire at the Blackwood home to destroy whatever’s in the Blackwood’s home.
At this point, Merricat and her sister, who’s also eccentric in her own way, choose to live in what remains of the house.
Everyone else in our family is dead.Mary Katherine Blackwood, or "Merricat" as she is nicknamed, is the child-woman narrator of this extremely disturbing novel by Shirley Jackson.
As the novel opens, only three members of the rich Blackwood family are surviving: Merricat, her elder sister Constance, and their ailing uncle Julian.
This is like seeing things in a "funny mirror" - it distorts and provides a weird sort of clarity at the same time, by emphasising certain aspects out of proportion.Constance does not venture forth outside the house at all: and Uncle Julian is an invalid eccentric, who keeps on writing about that fateful day six years ago, over and over.
A creepy little tale from a bullied psychopaths point of view. Stars rounded up from three on account of the villagers' choices before and after the main event.
Perché nessuno si è preso la briga di parlarmi prima di Shirley Jackson?
A fine lettura ho pensato: beh, l'ho adorato ma in fondo è "solo" una di quelle storie al limite tra racconti del terrore e giallo.
è una narrazione intessuta con meticolosità e maestria, un fine racconto psicologico sul Male, su una follia e un delirio sociopatico.
Al limite tra il fiabesco e la stregoneria.
Non voglio dirvi troppo perché è un romanzo da spolpare, da divorare pezzo per pezzo.
Vi ritroverete a chiedervi se il Male alberga solo nei cuori dei colpevoli oppure, e forse in misura maggiore, anche nell'animo degli innocenti.
And I will say: "Yes, it worries me a little bit, maybe.
Merricat and Constance are sisters and they live in a big house all alone, not counting their handicapped uncle.
They have a garden where they grow things and Constance cooks all year long which makes Merricat observe:"We eat the year away.
I want to live in a big house like that with my sister, and have my little harmless rituals, and new books from library every week.Hey, don't you think Merricat should totally marry Frank from the Wasp Factory?
A strange tale about two social outcasts, We Have Always Lived in the Castle follows a pair of wealthy orphaned sisters, Constance and Merricat Blackwood, as they try to defend themselves and their family estate from hostile villagers and a scheming cousin looking to steal their fortune.
The novel is told from the perspective of the 18-year-old Merricat, who routinely indulges in murderous fantasies and wishes to punish anyone who accuses Constance of having poisoned the rest of their family six years prior to the start of the story.
Lucky for me, Penguin's Deluxe Classics set has two nice editions of Jackson: We Have Always Lived in the Castle and 'The Haunting of Hill House".Having now read both, I'm not sure which I like the most.
That's why Lethem makes the big bucks.
Jackson gets the big bucks because like David Lynch, Alfred Hitchcock, and Patricia Highsmith, Jackson has the pulse on suburban American wickedness.
As I was reading this story, it made me think of the tribal and vicious nature of my Arizona neighbors and friends when presented with something different, odd, and perhaps a bit scary.
Such a creepy wee story. Depressing & unsettling - loved it! Slow Read.
