https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/776489.Inherit_the_Stars
The book takes it's time setting up the story (read introduces some of the characters, wanders around giving us a short intro to the book...and so on.) First we get a small snippet of "what went before" and then we start to meet the people involved.After you've well read the opening, heard about "the scope" and met some of these people (and yawned a good deal) we finally find, Charlie.
(Though I know some of you will GREATLY disagree with me as people do love this book).The story basically boils down to an imaginary chain of research accounts and debates showing attitudes of the people making the arguments (closed minded to open minded).
3.5 stars. This is the first book by James P. Hogan that I have read and I was very impressed. This was a well thought out, hard SF book that was also a terrific, engaging story. The plot is basically a SF mystery that keeps you guessing until the very end (which does not disappoint). I look forward to reading the other two books in this series. Recommended.
The most enjoyable sci-fi book I have read - and I must have read it at least 3 times, which is rare for me. I've enjoyed all his works and am sad that he died so young (compared with me!)
I love a detective story & combined with science fiction it is perfect!
Made me think of a book I read to my children when they were going through their, long, dinosaur phase (fueled by yearly visits to the dinosaur museum in Drumheller, Alberta), "T.rex and the Crater of Doom" about real life "scientific detective work" concerning the Yucatan meteor / asteroid / comet crater complete with all the academic jealousies and theoretical rigidities that I can fully relate to as an academic!
The dogmatic theoretician is the bane of academia as far as I am concerned!
This book astounded me when I first read it. The ideas, the writing, hard science fiction was fairly new for me then.The discovery of a human mummy in a space suit on the moon causes a sensation when carbon dating shows it's age as greater the humans on Earth.
It's the story of a guy that has all this contradictory evidence in front of him and how he figures out how the corpse ended up on the moon.
Again, in the seventies when this came out I would probably have loved it, and anytime you're trying to guess what everyday life will be like in 50 years then I suppose you're going to get lots of stuff wrong.
And this book, well, it gets lots of stuff wrong.
There is a long conversation about the moon, its formation, the early state of the solar system, all sorts of stuff like that.
First book in the greatest SciFi trilogy of all time!
Genuine hard science SciFi. You're in the story as the scientists develop their hypotheses, test them, learn more, revise them, and move the story forward.
This book pulled me in like no other.
It sets up the Giants' series to be the most interesting, surprising, well-written, and meaningful of all science fiction trilogies (plus 2) up to the present time.
A model of how to develop and write hard SciFi.This book launches one of the most interesting, creative ideas on where humankind really came from.Impossible to put down.
Written in the 1970's the author brilliantly predicts quite a bit that's true about the 21st century - sure, we're behind schedule on those flying cars and we've banned smoking but when it comes to his predictions on electronic gizmos he's fairly accurate. Unique storyline with great twist for an ending, I found this to be a very enjoyable science fiction book.
This book addresses some anomalies in our moon and solar system that are eventually explained by events that occurred during prehistoric times. VERY interesting with a great ending. The sequels to this are also good reading.
Part of the best series I've ever read. The second book is even better, the third incredible.
I really enjoyed this one. It starts with a wonderful mystery and then unravels the answer through a wonderful combination of science fact and science fiction. Wonderful.
I'm relatively new in the science fiction world, I have read most of the "classics" and "must-reads" and I was taken by surprise by this book. The book starts with one of the most amazing opening I have ever read and does an amazing job of filling in the pieces from there. I don't want to get into the plot because I feel this book is best enjoyed with knowing very little going into it. I would definitely recommend it to all readers.
Incredible book - one of the best science fiction reads I've had in years! I really enjoyed the sense of mystery and discovery in this book. Scientists on the moon discover the body of a human in a space suit, but carbon dating reveals him to be over 50,000 years old. The discoveries that continue to unfold as they uncover more clues as to the origin of the ancient astronaut really keep the book moving along.
It has been years since I read this book, but I remember loving it. At the beginning you are presented with a mind bending mystery. In every chapter, you have enough information to construct a theory, but then it is dashed by new evidence. Reading this book was a delightful experience that stands out over the many books I have read since.
Simply amazing. I read it about 7 years ago time to re-read it, I think.
The audacity of throwing one undreamt of fact into the scientific method and the amazingly plausible tale of discovery that might be is vastly entertaining.
Intelligent, imaginative, thoughtful, amazing hard science fiction.
An interesting sci-fi novel, presenting an alternate view of the origin of man on earth, and in the process shedding light on the instincts that drive us.
4.5 Best hard sci-fi novel I’ve read to date!
In the near future, mankind has started to spread throughout the solar system; among other things, establishing several moon bases.
Things get really interesting when tests on the corpse, nicknamed "Charlie", reveal that it is at least 50,000 years old.Interest shifts from the moon to Texas, headquarters of the United Nations Space Arm. The world's finest scientists are brought in, and they get a pretty clear idea about Charlie pretty quickly.
Things get very interesting with the discovery of a very large alien spaceship, not from Charlie's race, under the ice on Ganymede.This novel gets pretty heavy on the science, but at least it's easily understandable.
Also today, with the advancement of DNA-tests, you would never have the lengthy debate and scientific detective work in order to establish the relation to the human species of the body found on the moon.Apart from that, the scientific (fictional) basis of the book has survived father time quite well.
The conclusions were, for the most part logical, and the unraveling of the mystery interesting and not too predictable although the mystery that eventually led up to some “astonishing” facts about our moon, that one could deduce the answer to rather quickly and well in advance of the big revelation in the book.It’s no action story though.
Anyway the conclusion is, obviously, that I found this book a very nice read.
The story is fairly straightforward - Humanity is slowly populating space (this was written in the 1970s and the assumption then was we would continue to explore space after the moon) and in the 2020s the skeleton of a modern-day technologically-advanced human is found on the moon who died about 50,000 years ago.
The story is interesting and the resolution seems well thought out (although may be far-fetched according to modern day understanding of astronomy and physics - I'm not sure).
If more excitement were in the story its should have rated at least 4 stars.
Enjoyed this immensely. Hogan uses his work of science fiction to postulate about the origins of man, theories of evolution, and what kind of technology it might take to begin to explore our solar system. Knowing that this was originally published the same year that Star Wars came out, it's so interesting to see him take a much less expansive view of our abilities in space flight. Just 15 more years until this book is set, it will be curious to see how far we've come to Hogan's vision when we get there.
This is the best science fiction book I have ever read. I enjoyed this story immensely and will be continuing the series.5 stars = Yearly re-read4 stars = Re-read eventually3 stars = Very Good2 stars = OK1 stars = Pass on this one.0 stars = Couldn't finish it.
Very, very good book. I really liked the way the book built layer on top of layer and had me guessing all the way on how it was going to turn out with the main characters re-evaluating and modifying their theories. Trying to find the next book in the series...
Fascinating sci-fi book, with clever interwining with the real world situations helps make the book sound plausible in its fantastic theories and ideas which can be mind-blowing and overwhelming. A fine masterpiece worth reading!
Very solid 'sense of wonder'-science fiction, in the same vein as Rama. The characters may not be that amazing, but the mystery is wonderful, and true science fiction.
Enjoyed the book, I love the Giants series.
Starting with the premise of finding a 50,000 year old dead astronaut on the moon, it's a novel about the scientific process; hundreds or thousands of people methodically studying, hypothesizing, and theorizing.
Fortunately, the story is primarily told through the point of view of one character, whose job it is to keep all the different departments talking to each other.
There is only one female character, and she is defined primarily by her looks; she does contribute an important scientific insight, but it seems to be because girls like to keep diaries.
I'd read my share of science fiction up to that point, and didn't see what I could gain from a science fiction book that would benefit me in learning archaeology.Well, after I read it, I saw.A human skeleton is found on the moon, which is mysterious in and of itself.
The more disturbing fact of the discovery, however, is not the simple presence of the remains.
The implications are staggering.Inherit the Stars is thinking readers' science fiction at its best.
The mystery pulls the reader in and drags him or her along on an intellectual ride.
