https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12589.The_Golden_Apples
Welty was a major American writer who wrote some highly challenging artworks.
It is of an unusual genre: it's not a collection of short stories nor is it a novel.
It is a unified art work made up of connected stories, or maybe I should say "pieces," since some of them aren't really stories and would make little sense without the whole book surrounding them.
Nothing wrong with either one, but those are kind of the beginner's level of Welty's fiction.
I recommend getting her Collected Stories, which includes The Golden Apples.
More on her other stories in a separate entries on the Collected Stories.
Eudora Welty's The Golden Apples is in some sense beyond the human mind; beyond what fiction addresses.
Virgie, in the collection's closing story, "The Wanderers," is a fine example of this:She knew that now at the river, where she had been before on moonlit nights in autumn, drunken and sleepless, mist lay on the water and filled the trees, and from the eyes to the moon would be a cone, a long silent horn, of white light.
One of the most amazing, beautiful, and striking series of short stories I've ever read. The characters are so layered and messy and complicated. They become real people by the time you reach the end and you're left grieving for some and relieved and happy for others. The last of the stories is particularly beautiful and won't ever be forgotten.
As sete histórias contam as peripécias das personagens, ao longo de quarenta anos: 'Chuva de Ouro'; 'Recital de Junho'; 'Senhor Coelho'; 'Lago Lua'; 'Todo o Mundo Sabe'; 'Música de Espanha' e 'Os Viandantes'.
Um retrato fiel e intenso de uma comunidade do sul dos EUA, onde não faltam as questões políticas e raciais.
A água e o céu, a Lua ou o Sol giravam sempre, e entre eles havia esta indecisão mágica, a de um barco.
~~~~ "Entretanto, como se dispensassem o apoio das pernas, as cabeças dos dois homens continuavam a voltar-se calmamente para o largo, espraiando os olhos pela paisagem.
I'm done! Finally! Beautiful writing & characters I couldn't bring myself to care about.
There were a couple chapters of this book that I just loved, where I could see what all the fuss over Eudora Welty was about--she paints such a wonderful picture of small-town Southern life in the early 20th century that I could almost feel the shimmering heat of Morgana, Mississippi.
(Or maybe that was just the heat of early 21st century Washington, D.C. right outside my door.) Unfortunately, I hated most of the rest of the book--some chapters relied too much on stream-of-consciousness narration for my taste, and it bounced around so much that I felt I never really got to know any of the inhabitants of Morgana.
Welty is a titan.
Ok, now that that's out of the way, this book is a collection of short stories that all relate to the same town "Morgana" and its townspeople...making it more novel-like than short-story-collection-like.
I read in an interview with Welty that the town's name is based on the sea horizon mirage phenomenon "fata morgana." This hazy, dream-like misting in-and-out of mirage and reality perfectly characterizes the tone and structure of the book.
Her narrative is sprinkled in between long lists of character names and dream like sequences, making it very slow to digest.
Beautifully written short stories about a fictional Mississippi town and its inhabitants.
She took off her clothes and let herself into the river.She saw her waist disappear into reflection less water; it was like walking into sky, some impurity of skies.
She moved but like a cloud in skies, aware but only of the nebulous edges of her feeling and the vanishing opacity of her will, the carelessness for the water of the river through which her body had already passed as well as for what was ahead.
Everyone in town, particularly the old women, feels free to lavish Ran, in public, with their advice.The story escalates as he begins spending time with an innocent country girl who falls in love with him.
The only piece of writing by Eudora Welty I had read prior to picking up "The Golden Apples" was a her book of autobiographical essays called "One Writer's Beginnings." I think this was a good place to start.
Greater than all of these is a single, entire human being, who will never be confined to any frame."This understanding of Eudora Welty's way of seeing people really enhanced my experience of reading "The Golden Apples." None of the characters she has created are insignificant.
Welty masterfully strings out information and complicates characters through numerous stories, and I always smiled a bit when I saw an old face pop back up.What I suspect turned me off the first time--and complicated my second reading--was the INTENSE amount of symbolic value within the narrative itself.
Welty's delightful prose alleviates some of this, but I can't tell you how many "WTF" moments I had as I read along.
I found this frustrating because it interrupted what was otherwise a delightful narrative.
She pressed through a haw thicket and through the cherry trees. With a tree-high seesawing of boughs a squirrel chase ran ahead of her through the woods - Morgan's Woods, as it used to be called. Fat birds were rocking on their perches. A little quail ran on the woods floor. Down an arch, some old cedar lane up here, Mattie Will could look away into the big West. She could see the drift of it all, the stretched land below the little hills, and the Big Black, clear to MacLain's Courthouse, almos
She could see the drift of it all, the stretched land below the little hills, and the Big Black, clear to MacLain's Courthouse, almost, the Stark place plain and the fields, and their farm, everybody's house above trees, the MacLains' - the white floating peak - and even Blackstone's granny's cabin, where there had been a murder one time.
You encounter no small difficulty in describing a book like this, because its choice ground lies somewhere between the novel and the short story collection.
Some of these are short stories.
I don't care for short stories but Eudora Welty is such an interesting writer. Her stories have the subtle strangeness of Flannery O'Conner's stories. She makes us see mundane events for the peculiarness that exists within them.
I admit I was confused half the time by the twists and turns in both dialogue and plot. But it was a pleasant kind of mental exercise.
A lyrical and experimental novel told in short stories. Think Sherwood Anderson on acid.
Hard to get into initially because she writes in circles and the language is unfamiliar. But hang in there, it's so rewarding! so beautiful.
Why did it take me so long to read more Eudora Welty? We should all just be reading Eudora Welty all the time.
I've enjoyed reading a number of Eudora Welty's work.
They do not do a whole lot and their personalities are not very compelling.Finally, Welty seems to write in a vague way that prevents the reader, at least this reader, from understanding what is going on.
The stories develop through certain characters inner thoughts and their dialogues with other characters, but neither the thoughts nor the conversations yield up much information.If one just enjoys reading about people in warm environments, small towns and mundane conversation, they would like this book, but Welty had done better.
These linked stories aren't quite as good as her first collection, but they're excellent nonetheless. They require much patience from the reader: dense, detailed, atmospheric. Welty creates a world in every story and while she occasionally makes the reader work too hard (and there's also the regrettable racism of the era), she does not even begin to approach the incoherence of, say, Faulkner.
I took a class in college in which Welty's works were 1/3 of the focus and I remember skimming a few of her short stories and The Optimist's Daughter at breakfast before a few classes and I remember thinking oh, this is great, I should give it another chance sometime.
So anyway I came across this collection at the library a few months ago and thought it was time to give her that other shot.
I don't know if I just wasn't in the mood for them, but I also don't know when I would be in the mood for them if not at the time.
"Meditação se estende bem além do mundo natural, mas a todas as pessoas de Welty Morgana , Mississippi : de socialites borbulhantes não exatamente como a de Virginia Woolf Mrs. Dalloway aos homens introvertidos como Ran MacLain de " todo o mundo sabe ", esses personagens são temas de meditação de Welty e são tão adorável e claro para ela que , " no mato um vaga-lume [ que ] iria clarear , dentro e fora , dentro e fora , por tanto tempo no meio da noite , enquanto ela estava lá para ver .
Her writing is beautiful; one passage I marked describing a girls' tent at summer camp- "The pondering night stood rude at the tent door, the opening fold would let it stoop in- it, him- he had risen up inside.
Long-armed, or long-winged, he stood in the center there where the pole went up.
But the night knew about Easter.
Easter's hand hung down, opened outward.
Come here, night, Easter might say, tender to a giant, to such a dark thing.
Easter's callused hand hung open there to the night that had got wholly into the tent."
I picked up Welty’s book because I read that she was a big influence on Alice Munro.
Welty’s writing is rich, gorgeous and deep.
Give yourself plenty of time with this collection.
I read each story multiple times in an effort to try and capture all the finer details.At times, it felt like I was reading a Munro story – and that’s a good thing.
Both writers focus on pivotal moments, stories in which not much really happens in real time, but there’s a tidal wave of revelation under the surface.Highly recommended for any Munro fan.
Or anyone looking for topnotch short stories.
I’ve been plodding my way through The Golden Apples for what seems an eternity.
I think I’ve been indulging in a little too much Welty lately, or maybe this just isn’t as good as her other works, but for some reason I’m bored stiff.
The chapters are very long, very uneventful short stories that more or less all tie together into one timeline, and I know I read “Moon Lake” in another collection.
Nothing happens, and it takes such a long time doing it--a good bit of the action that does take place is seemingly random or at least without consequences.Goodness, I’m such a Gloomy Gus of a reader this week!

Most of the stories in this collection didn't really speak to me. I am also not a fan of the writing style. However, the genius of Eudora Welty and her writing is clear as she paints pictures of the people of Morgana throughout their life span.
An amazing collection of short stories set in the Mississippi.
However, sometimes to understand and make sense of Welty's stories you need to have patience as well as the ability to persevere till you can understand the plot.
Sometimes the words just passed over my head and I had to read a couple of more times just to comprehend what I was reading.But undoubtedly, this is a great piece of literature that reflects the talent and amazing ability of Eudora Welty to create memorable characters and magnific plots that are undeniably a priceless treasure worthy of praise and recognition.
I had tried so many times to read this book. Why is it so hard for me to love Welty? Maybe the ridiculous southern character types (caricatures?) are too close to home for this East Texas girl. But I stuck with it this time, and one again I owe Miss Welty an apology. This book contains some of the most beautiful sentences, passages, I've ever read. The notion of separate stories with a common thread (the short story cycle) works very well to illustrate how inseparable loneliness is from community ties. Glad I gave it another chance.
Eudora Welty is truly a master of the American short story. The Golden Apples is a collection of seven intertwined stories set in the fictional town of Morgana, Mississippi in the time between the two world wars.I hate to say this but I found this collection difficult to read and enjoy.The edition I was reading was an old paperback borrowed from a friend. It had no introduction or notes. Perhaps another edition with those additional resources would have helped me.
In her gorgeous sweeping prose, Eudora Welty sometimes meanders a little too much and winds up getting dry, but the way the stories interweave and slowly build more information into this town and these families is brilliant, and there are moments that will resonate with me for a long time. Especially in "June Recital," "Moon Lake," and "The Wanderers."
