https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2703215-anderby-wold
When her parents died Mary Robson married John, her steady, sensible, older cousin, so that she could keep the farm at Anderby Wold.
But she only had her position at Anderby, and she so feared losing it …..Winifred Holtby made this story so engaging, so readable, and I was captivated.There are contrivances needed to make the story work, and there were moments when I might have wished for a little more subtlety, but the story did work, and I loved seeing the themes and ideas that she would explore in all of her novels threaded through this story so effectively.'Anderby Wold' captures a particular place and time, a particular point in history very well.And it was clear that Winifred Holtby cared, and that she understood.
She writes about those situations which she has experience of, and the characters which feature in her novels seem all the more real because of it.Anderby Wold takes place in the small village of Anderby in the East Riding of Yorkshire.
The novel opens with the formidable character of Sarah Bannister who seems intent upon bossing her husband Tom around.
Details like this which feature heavily throughout Holtby’s narrative set her writing apart from other novels.
The characters in Anderby Wold are all diverse and range from self-important Sarah and clumsy maid Violet to quiet John and keen-to-please Mary.
This is Winifred Holtby's first novel, written when she was in her twenties, published in 1923 and set in the East Riding of Yorkshire in 1912.
I like to read books from the period I write about, and this was a joy to read.
It's not as well known as her masterpiece, South Riding, but rehearses many of the themes that she will return to.
Mary Robson married her stolid older cousin so as to keep her farm.
In bursts David Rossitur, a red-haired, fiery, young idealist who preaches socialism, and Mary's world will never be the same again.
Mary manages the farm, her much older husband deferring to many of her decisions - she's a strong, stubborn woman, yet the readers can see her vulnerability, as her way of life is threatened and her disappointments lead her to desperately try to keep the status quo.
Mary's fascination with fiery radical David Rossitur seems doomed from the start, coming as they do from different worlds and different persepectives.I enjoyed this early Winifred Holtby novel immensely, the writing is glorious, with some fabulous characterisation, which clearly shows the emerging brilliant writer she already was.
Along with many other readers, I first discovered Winifred Holtby through her connection with Vera Brittain, whose memoir – The Testament of Youth – is considered a classic for its depiction of the impact of the Great War on the British middle classes, particularly the women.
Anderby Wold was Holtby’s first novel – an absorbing story of traditional Yorkshire farming folk grappling with the challenges of financial survival in an environment poised on the brink of great social change.
I enjoyed it a great deal, especially the portrayal of the novel’s central character, Mary Robson, the rather headstrong joint-owner of Anderby Wold farm, situated in the East Riding region of Yorkshire.To read my review, please visit:https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2017...
Holtby has a talent for seeing the good in every character, even those, like Coast the schoolmaster in this book and Snaith in South Riding, who are outwardly very unpleasant.
Because there are so many characters to get to know and understand, the central storyline feels a little rushed, and there just isn't enough of it.
(Though I do think that's how it tends to work when you write an ensemble novel like this one; I felt the same way about certain plotlines in South Riding as well).This was certainly enjoyable, but I'm glad Holtby kept writing so she could achieve South Riding.
Holtby is my new obsession. She writes like a dream, creates resonant characters, and then sets them in lively motion. This, her first novel, deals with agrarian vs union issues just before WW1. Against this backdrop, a fateful romance plays out between the heroine, a journalist, and the Anderby Wold farm itself.
Obviously a winner in 1926, what with the UK General Strike, as it dwells on the ins and outs of socialism and the possibility of unionizing rural labour. The associated love story is more predictable.
I was struck by the similarity to Jane Austen: both focus on the personalities, tensions, the pettiness, resentments and emotions of small communities, and both combine acute social observations with sharp humour.The novel opens with a family party at the farm, Anderby Wold, as Mary Robson and John, her husband of ten years and also her cousin, are celebrating a decade of hard work and penny pinching to clear the mortgage on the farm they had inherited.
It is, perhaps, a sign of its times; I am not sure a novel would be published today with such an ill-feeling introduction.
Winifred Holtby's first novel, published in 1923, is a study of agricultural life in the East Riding of Yorkshire in the years before the First World War. Holtby knows her territory - she came from an East Riding farming family - and Anderby Wold is fascinating as a window into a vanished world. As a novel it's not as richly imagined or as skilfully controlled as South Riding, the book for which she will always be known, but it's nevertheless an accomplished work, and introduces many of the themes she would explore in her later work.
It's been far too long since I've read a Holtby novel! This was a bit clunky (a first novel), but it was still delightful. It was fun to see some classic Holtby moves (who knew Yorkshire was so sexy?) and compare to her more mature works. I really wonder what the composition history is for this novel, because it is so short compared to her other works and I feel like it could have easily been expanded. Please come back from the dead and do a rewrite.
Winifred Holtby was a friend of my father's family and indeed my uncle Geoffrey was Vera Brittain's literary trustee; so I read her work with a favourable eye. This is a very mature and well observed pen portrait of Yorkshire country life in the first part of the 20th Century. My family come from that community and many of Holtby's characters struck chords for me. The revelation for the central character Mary is cleverly wrought.
I'm a huge fan of South Riding and was slightly disappointed in this, Winifred Holtby's first novel. However, it was fascinating how change and progress affected the members of the East Riding with farm labourers striking and the infancy of Socialism.
Felt it took a long time to get going. Can definitely see Holtby's style developing, and it was a vivid representation of rural England in the early years of the 20th century.
The farm workers are whipped upto strike and Mary's tyrannical speech to the deputation brings illfeeling for her in the village, but the strike is aborted before thewage demands can be met with only Coast still seething with anger.The ending sees Mary now resigned and defeated but willing, at longlast to put kindly, stolid John (who has shown some suprising backbone and stood up to Mary in regards to some of the radical ideas inRossitur's book) before her own wants and needs.For a first novel just simply terrific.
Life in Anderby Wold is hard but quiet until David Rossitur, a young handsome social reformer, arrives and begins to shake things up, not least on Mary Robson’s farm.Anderby Wold is nowhere near as polished and accomplished as South Riding but it is by no means a bad novel; Winifrd Holtby not at her best is still Winifred Holtby after all.
It’sreally very difficult not to make this sound incredibly dull, but in fact it paints a fascinating picture of a community going through a time of quiet but important change.One of the things that has impressed me about both Holtby novels that I’ve read so far is her ability to create characters who are neither inherently good nor inherently bad.
The one I wanted was written by Noel Langley.Bearing all that in mind, this book was a very pleasant surprise.
The descriptions of the the characters, the life that they lead, the tensions in the community...
As part of a farming family in a now not-so farming community, there was a lot to relate to.I liked the fact that there was no whiter-than-white and no blacker-than-black characters (well, the schoolmaster excepted.
There was a underlying humour to the way the story was written that I found particularly appealing.I'm really tempted to give this book five stars, but it did take me a while to unravel the various characters in the beginning and work out who went where.
Mary Robson appears to care only for paying off the mortgage on her land at Anderby Wold whilst her intellectually inferior husband, her senior by some years, arouses in her only irritation and disappointment.
And then a stranger enters her life, a radical and social reformer, a man called David Rossitur who not only challenges the way of life in the village of Anderby but also turns Mary's world upside down so that it's never the same again.
Set just prior to the First World War, I was interested to read this book because it's Winifred Holtby's first novel and her later work, 'South Riding' South Riding is a favourite.
Rather an old fashioned read. This book and others by Winifred Holtby were considered modern classics in their time. Young Mary Robson married to her unromantic cousin John are striving to preserve Mary' inheritance a farm (Anderby Wold). The farm is managed in traditional Yorkshire ways. When she meets radical David Rossitur. His ideas on social change do not go down well with the locals. Mary finds herself attracted to the young man and his ideas. A sneak kiss in a cornfield upsets her life and that of the calm village of Anderby Wold.
An intriguing book that raises a lot of interesting questions about the relationship between social change and rural life.Through its vivid imagery, the novel gives a detailed picture of rural life. Almost a pre-cursor to the themes Holtby shows in South Riding, this novel is humorous, but not without its sombre moments a beautiful piece of character writing.
Holtby's novel about the 1920's conflict between farmers and farm worker's rights is an interesting and realistic depiction of Yorkshire life at the time. Her heroine is a managing woman who is disliked by many, and the antagonism of a schoolteacher causes problems for her.See my complete review here:http://whatmeread.wordpress.com/tag/a...
Not a Persephone book, but a Persephone author. I finished it a few weeks ago, and I'm still not sure what to make of it or exactly what Holtby's point was. I liked that Holtby's sharp characterizations applied to everyone, including the protagonist. And some bits were quite funny: the vexed schoolmaster playing the church organ, for instance.
Excellent read. Her first novel but not nearly as well-known as South Riding (also well-worth reading). Great attention to detail, characters believable and well-rounded, storyline authentic and gripping.
Very gentle, though very eventful in parts. Understated
first novel - you can see the seeds of South Riding.
Fairly light read. Slow paced, a little predictable, evocative of time and place, and overall an enjoyable read for me.
