https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40173.Are_You_There_Vodka_It_s_Me_Chelsea
Submitted three essays and completed one test yesterday so I read this book to reward myself.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I DID IT! I DID IT! I DID A DNF!!!! Mind you, it was an audiobook of a physical book I had already read, but hey I had to start somewhere, right? So now you might be wondering how in the eff am I managing to 1 Star something I 4 Starred in the past. Welllllll, lemme tell ya . . . . .  Chelsea Handler has a voice that I want to punch right in the throat. I convinced myself I could get past it and the funny would outweigh the fingernails
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I DID IT!
I DID A DNF!!!!
Mind you, it was an audiobook of a physical book I had already read, but hey I had to start somewhere, right?
So now you might be wondering how in the eff am I managing to 1 Star something I 4 Starred in the past.
Chelsea Handler has a voice that I want to punch right in the throat.
In fact, her delivery makes this book decidedly UNFUNNY – even when I knew the material had me literally LOLing the first time around.
Lesson learned and any future Handler endeavors by me will be strictly via print.
Horrible. Chelsea Lately is a great show, and Chelsea Handler a talented comedian. But this book is bad. A colossal disappointment. The whole crass “shock value” thing wears thin really quickly. I might have laughed a couple of times, but not enough to warrant even a second star.
A seriously gifted writer, who combines funny and raunchy better than any woman.I mean wild, hilarious and uninhibited story telling.
My favorite of Chelsea's embarrassing re-collections: her preposterous fake celebrity elementary school tale, a LOL birthday party for a friendless girl full of re-gifting, pretending to be honeymooning with her father in order to upgrade to first class.
Also, if you like reading funny out of control drinking and sex stories, I'm half-way through Chelsea's other book ...My Horizontal Life: A Collection of One-Night Stands and it's great.
Wild steamy Penthouse stories, VIP partying, and it's even funnier than Chelsea's stuff.
Admittedly, I don't usually read books like this, but found Are You There, Vodka?
It's Me, Chelsea to be an overall entertaining collection.
The first four essays were, far and away, the 'best' in the collection.
Until reading this book, I had no familiarity with Handler.
However, Chelsea Handler glosses over and re-arranges life events in order to align them just so - and thusly make whatever anecdote she's recounting work like one of her performance jokes.
Everything works just a little too well for these to be legitimate essays.
Rather, the book reads like an ongoing stand-up routine with more detail added.
Ah Chelsea, Hilarious. Read this on the plane ride back from atlanta. She never disappoints and I'm certain i annoyed rows 18 and 20 of Airtran Flight 176, and possibly rows 17 and 21 at certain points in the book with my laughter. Would recommend it to anyone :)
However, the pacing and 'convenience' of most stories stretched my credulity well beyond my suspended disbelief - typically just making me feel bad for her parents/exes/waiter/friends or whomever that she happened to be interacting with at the moment in the story.
I had heard this book likened to some of Sedaris' essays, but find that the comparison to be wildly off-target.
Sedaris brings a sort of quiet thoughtfulness to his humor, and is most frequently the target of his own jokes.
Handler, instead, brings a sort of crass entitlement to her judgments, too good for even those she is telling her story to.
This woman is easily the funniest woman in the entertainment industry.
She brings out the evil maniacal laugh in me, if case you didn't already notice.Since her other book is entitled "My Horizontal Life : A Collection of One-Night Stands", you can be fairly certain this book will also include sexual content as well as a lot of adult language.
Nevertheless, she's entertaining to say the least.I really recommend listening to the audio book.
Same thing she does every night - Try to take over the world.
The entertainment world at least.
I listened to this on audio and like my GR friend Kelly stated, Chelsea's voice can be a bit much.
Some of them seem a bit over the top and maybe a bit embellished to make a better story?!?
I am certainly not opposed to reading more of her stories.
I used to watch her show on tv and I wonder if any of her girlfriends in the book were some of the comics on the show.
It never stated if any names were changed.
I also want to look up on You Tube the Girls Behaving Badly show and see if I can watch the scenes with Kimmy :))
Before I say anything regarding my rating of this book, it needs to be said how much I love Chelsea Handler.
I was really excited to read this book, because so many of my friends have enjoyed it and because I am a Chelsea enthusiast.
As a self-proclaimed grammar stickler, I tend to do this with most of everything that I read, but Ms. Handler's book made me tempted to mark the pages in red ink and hand it back to her, asking for a re-write.
I am still a huge fan of Chelsea Handler as a comedian, but I am not sure if I will ever read any of her other novels in the future.
Not that she got meaner or grosser but in this book I was often wondering, since for the most part, Handler does seem to actually wish to not overtly hurt anyone's feelings, how obvious it was to the people discussed that they were subjects.
Some of them seemed to deserve it but nonetheless, this newer book seemed meaner.
Handler has fantastic stories- I don't care if she has made them all up.
Not that Handler does not tell stories that reveal a wildness but they are good enough to not be marketed as trash.
Okay, I sent this back to the library...half way through.
It started to collect dust and when it was reading time, I just didn't want to pick it up.
The library was begging for it back and I figured after 7 weeks, I wasn't going to finish it.
I got this book because Chelsea's show is funny and sometimes outrageous.
I wanted to know more about her, but it is so couched in comedy(what did I expect, right?) that it's mildly disappointing.
I liked the book (at least the half I read), it's funny, however, I am wondering where comedy ends and truth begins.
To any Judy Blume fan, the parody is obvious, but even the less-informed reader (to whom I will now impart the title of Blume’s novel, Are you there God?
Handler’s writing is self-mocking, but in a comically arrogant sort of way.
This guessing game turns into the compounding “oh my god, no she didn’t!” reaction you experience when your girlfriend tells you about “what a wild weekend she had.” Except according to this book, Handler doesn’t have wild weekends; she has a wild life.Blume fans, don’t try this book unless you transitioned to at least the level of the Sweet Valley Twins series in later adolescence.
The best part was that she read this book so I didn't even have to imagine hearing the stories in her voice.
Now a word of caution: if you have never seen her television show, Chelsea Handler Lately, on the Comedy Channel, please watch it a time a or two before reading or listening to this book.
Now I'm trying to decide if I want to risk reading My Horizontal Life--a series of essays about her one-night stands in her youth.
Doesn't she know that we are still trying to pretend to our parents that our one-night stands never happened?
I mean, for crying out loud, it has VODKA in the title!
I finally decided to just do it - just get this book and read it.Little did I know I'd actually have to be DRINKING vodka to appreciate this book.Unfortunately, I read this book stone cold sober.First of all, I barely know who Chelsea Handler is.
I mean, that's crazy, right?
And, for all of it's low ratings, it was actually funnier than this book.
I must admit the more I read of this book the more I thought - it's me.
Oh, vodka, where are you when I need you?
Chelsea Handler's uninhibited storytelling and vulgar sense of humor make for a fun read. She has a gift for storytelling that will keep you laughing through each unbelievable and sometimes embarrassing real-life journey. This book is full of good, inappropriate fun. If you offend easily, you probably should not read it. Otherwise, have a good laugh!
The first chapter, in which a 9-year-old Chelsea tells her entire school that she’s negotiating a movie role in play Goldie Hawn’s daughter on screen, sets the bar for Handler’s dedication to lies that are more interesting than the truth.
This isn’t a truthful memoir: it’s just a book that’s supposed to make you laugh.And it is undeniably funny – in places.
By the final chapter, I was more than a little tired of Handler’s “oddball” (read: pretty unremarkable) father, who appears far too often in the book.While I enjoyed Vodka as I was reading it, I suspect it will find it rather forgettable.
The rest of the book did not disappoint.Handler is an LA-based stand-up comic who has written a collection of personal essays about random events from her life.
In the first piece—in which she convinces her entire grade school that she has been tapped to play Goldie Hawn's daughter in the non-existent Private Benjamin 2—she comes across as so over the top I felt like I was reading more of a written stand-up routine than a series of factual events.
Still, there were enough laugh-out-loud moments in this collection that I’m glad I picked it up.
This woman deserves the nobel prize. It's just not fair that we all don't have the talent and intelligence to make everyone laugh this hard for 2 hours straight. The world would be a better place. I couldn't put it down. My favorite story was her midget fetish- oh wait sorry, "healthy obsession". Dude that's just so far over the line that she erased the line.
I've seen clips of her here and there and thought that she was pretty funny and that Are You There Vodka, It's Me Chelsea looked like an entertaining book.
One of my favorites and probably the longest story in the book is her day or so in jail which started out as a DUI and turned into a fraud charge because her OWN sister turned her in for using her ID!
My next favorite story is with her boyfriend at the time "Mohammed" who accompanies Chelsea while she's dog sitting for a friend pretty much again her will but she doesn't have the backbone to tell her friend no.
Yes please.I started this because I need something to laugh at.
They're just jealous that I can listen to my ipod in the morning while they have to count money.So far my favorite line of hers is something like, "Today I got my first DWI.
Well, in this case, they are.I'm a bad person.*********This book is frigging amazing.
I needed to laugh SO BADLY and this was just the right medicine.
Don't even bother buying it in book form.
I love the story about her massage in with 'Memoirs of a Geisha' and 'Tons of Fun.' God, so funny.
Chelsea Handler is...
raucous.
That's the best term I have for her.
Her stories can be hilarious, but they seem ridiculous, over the top, try-hard.
It's like she was like "What's funny?
I know, vaginas!
That's SUPER-funny!"Sure...
I laughed, but I think things are funnier when they are less LOOK-AT-ME, more of a dry, sarcastic wit.
*shrug* Some of her stories just seem ridiculous, especially the ones about her as a kid, and the ones with her family.
All meant in jest, I'm sure.
Anyway, there were some laugh out loud moments for me, so this gets a 3.
I enjoyed Chelsea Handler's first book, My Horizontal Life. It was self-deprecatingly funny, and I imagined that a lot of the things that happened in the book actually happened to Ms. Handler.Her new book is over-the-top and unflattering to her family. She could learn something from David Sedaris and other humorist writers about how to write about one's family and life with some wit and subtlety.And jokes about race and abortion are just not my cup of tea.What a disappointment.
This is the funniest book I have listened to in a really long time. To say Handler has a funny bone is putting it mildly. I was cracking up so hard and loud people glared at me. Seriously, glared.Handler has taken bits of her life or someone's life and made an amazing story out of it. I only wish I had her other books now. Alas, I'm on that eternal hold list at the library. If you need a good laugh I would definitely recommend Handler!
Perfect mindless vacation read with plenty of laugh out loud moments.
I agree with Michelle...crude and lewd but hilarious. Chelsea Handler is like Dennis Miller. Very funny...not for the faint of heart.
За съжаление , авторката явно е прекалила с водката, защото тук не й се е получил добър резултат.Буквално е написана от човек в делириум.Хаос от случки , които по-скоро ме отвратиха , отколкото да предизвикат смях.
I really enjoy Chesea Handler's books.
Granted, she has some timeline issues (as a pop culture expert, I just grate my teeth and move on when shows/movies/what-have-you are referenced well before their time), and whoever is proofing her books REALLY needs to do some punctuation checks.
I think her next book should deal exclusively with her father, because those are the essays that really shine - they're laugh out loud knee slappers that I'll read again and again.
Even if you don't like the rest of the book, the last essay about her trip to Costa Rica with Papa Handler and a friend and her mother is worth a stand-alone read.
Living in a vacuum I had no clue who Chelsae handler was. A friend recommended the book but I wasn't that impressed.
Can't stand her but she's hilarious lol
