https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7897478-the-bedwetter
You understand that, right?In The Bedwetter: Stories of Courage, Redemption and Pee Silverman exposes the real her.
If you're a fan of comedy and you want to hear insider stories or back stage tales about other comedians or what it's like writing (briefly) for SNL, you'll find even more enjoyment here.
The best time to conceive is when you're a black teenager.Though The Bedwetter is about as scatterbrained as you'd expect from such an erratic writer/comedian, it is also a generally satisfying smattering of insights into the mind of an unusual entertainer.
Bedwetter is about her life.
An Asian American group protested, and Sarah later ended up trying to defend the joke on the show Politically Incorrect with Bill Maher.
Sarah said her joke was satire, and the point was that racism is real, but it's not going to go away by censoring comics.
In the book, she had this thoughtful passage:"I grew up watching Archie Bunker, the ignorant racist character created by Norman Lear, who was, himself, famously devoted to advancing racial tolerance and progressive cultural values.
Had Guy Aoki [the Asian American group rep] been operating in the '70s, he might have attacked Norman Lear as a racist.
As I said, because I am not exactly a fan of her brand of humor, though I do appreciate the odd zinger she comes up with and I like the fact that she puts herself out there as an unapologetic un-p.c. firebrand, I just was not really interested in her TV or movie gigs or behind the scenes of those endeavours.There were definitely looooooong filler parts of the memoirs that should have been cut as they were excruciatingly boring such as her reading out loud entire email exchanges with her editor about the title of her book (who cares?), a recreation of her father's insane voice mail messages (not in the least bit funny).
Sarah Silverman's lightning-rod comedy -- irreverent, snarky, grotesque, un-PC and offensive to those who lack an ironic sense -- invariably causes her to have to sometimes justify, explain and defend herself to humorless people, who still won't get it anyway.My review of this book will be a little bit like that, because, even though I'm giving it a fairly lowly two stars, I'm not saying it's not enjoyable, funny, revealing, sometimes thoughtful, and a good read.
She fairly well explains the early familial and social influences that led to her unique outlook and comedy style.The narrative is broken into short one- and two-page biographical anecdotes, and even though there's an overall chronological arc the bits seem to randomly jump back and forth in time.
That was certainly the case with The Bedwetter: Stories of Courage, Redemption, and Pee by Sarah Silverman.
I'm a Sarah Silverman fan, and I enjoyed her in this book, though it was scattered and uneven.
It was like listening to Sarah Silverman ramble for a few hours, which isn't that bad of a way to spend your time.
I thought the book was really funny, even if Sarah reiterated perhaps a few hundred too many times that she is, in fact, Jewish...
Overall, a enjoyable listening process and a moderately successful book, though structure and formatting isn't Sarah's friend.
As a consequence, The Bedwetter is for the most part very funny, but it doesn't really do any of that good memoir stuff like tell about how she lived in devastating poverty in Ireland and was forced to spend her days rummaging for coal to sell so her siblings would have enough to eat before they all died of typhoid fever, or reveal that her monumentally irresponsible and unstable parents kept uprooting their family when the creditors came calling before they eventually settled in a shack in the Ozarks and had to pee in a bucket in the kitchen, or allege that her father injected her with cocaine and had sex with her throughout her childhood (though to be fair, Sarah does lament that last one).No, pretty much it just explains that she was a late bloomer and a chronic bedwetter, and her coping mechanism in the face of acute and laser-focused teasing was to develop a filthy sense of humor that would make a prison rapist blush.
I've always had reservations about this comedian.
Anyway, she pushes buttons--but she does this here with, how can I put this: grace.
Actual, legit grace.
It's frickin' good.
Even avant garde in its enlightening "Midword" mid-book, a new staple in cool anecdotal storytelling, and its Afterword written by no other than God. This is an above average autobio (the kind which I read every other full moon or so) which doesn't disappoint but rather astound & inspire.
Just the admission to bedwetting, as a constant flaw in her heroic comedian's armor, is an endearing trait.
so that's good.
In the Old Testament, (that's like, the cool Jewish part of the Bible, where all the sex and killing is) Esther married the King of Persia because it was easier than working or coming up with a plan.
(Me, not Jewish girls in general, and most especially not the ones reading this review.) I don't have a lot to say, but I sure look good saying it!
(Did you know he was Jewish too?) Oh, um, okay.
Do you know how hard it is for a rich, pretty Jewish girl in America to find anything to complain about?
I wouldn't say I'm a big fan of Sarah Silverman but if I am flipping the channels and see her on a late night talk show, I'll tune in as she usually can get me to laugh at least a few times.
I read about half the book while in the waiting room of a doctor's office and there were multiple times I had to cover my mouth and bite my tongue so everyone wouldn't know I was laughing hysterically.
The humor combined with Sarah's openness to discuss the good and bad things in her life made this one of the better memoirs I have read.
What I have learned from this book: Sarah Silverman is a clever, sensitive, free-spirited clown who clearly adores her family and her friends, and who has no fear about talking honestly about her clinical depression or admitting that she wet the bed until she was 16.
Sarah Silverman, you have ruined me!As for the book itself, I'm inclined to go with the general consensus of Goodreads.
The beginning was significantly funnier than the rest of it; it does sort of deflate around page 120 or so, picking up again when she writes about her friends at The Sarah Silverman Program; it's definitely random and unorganized.
Chapters jump from problems with depression, to the loss of her virginity, to a terrible dress that she wore, then back to sex again.
Mostly what we learn from this is Sarah was depressed as a child, then moved to New York where her dad paid her rent while she tried to become a comic (but mostly slept around and did drugs).
And she also wore a terrible dress, but at least it was "comfortable".
And she feels bad that she made fun of Paris Hilton.Sarah Silverman is funny, but her book makes her seem like somewhat of a spoiled brat...just a thought.
It's really interesting to read her take on the culture of comedy in different places/modes/moments (stand up, SNL, Larry Sanders show, Sarah Silverman Program...).
While her comic persona likely overlaps with her "every day" self, it is never so simple to say that the Sarah Silverman we see in stand-up or who's voice we hear in this book is simply her.
I tend to appreciate these kind of things (comic reenactments of parental voice messages.) But, there's much to enjoy in this book and a lot to think about (including no small amount of farts).
From the first page of the foreword, where she correctly ascertained my physical location (on the toilet) through all the funny, sincere self-exposure, this book was great.
The chapters were short, the prose was simple, and the stories were punctuated by adorable and funny pictures.
It was cool to learn some background on Sarah Silverman, the comedian (family encouragement of her humor, palling around with comics, that sort of thing), but this book really shines as an ode to the art of the showbiz memoir.
Hey Sarah Silverman, this ethnically Jewish neurotic dick-joke-lover thinks you're pretty cool.
Like maybe Silverman wasn't really feeling the whole "book" thing, and goes off-roading with teenager journal entries and lists of things she did while she was not writing the book ("I Googled myself," "I bought vitamins that stimulate brain function")and how she would like to hold relationship auditions where a long line of men cuddle with her in bed while watching "Damages." She's not, like, MacKenzie Phillips, she admits.
And as of the writing of the book, she's never been raped.
This book is obviously not going to change the world -- like the time Sarah Silverman got Barack Obama elected.
She ultimately is ignorant or refuses to understand that there is a fundamental difference between jokes directed towards of a societal division in which she is included (women, Jews, etc.) and divisions of which she is not (Asians, black people, Catholics, etc).
She is upset that Perry likes the wrong parts of her racial jokes.
It's not that everyone that likes that joke is racist.
It's more that most racists will probably like the joke.
So if jokes like this one are to be included in a stand-up show, take responsibility for the demographics of which it might appeal.
We have a similar sense of humor when it comes to bodily functions, so hearing her say that she thought her readers were listening to her while they were going #2 (to put it nicely from my end...excuse the pun) had me sold on whatever was coming next.Sarah didn't have a charmed life growing up.
Yes, I knew what I was getting into, but I wouldn't want you to be in a position where you're going to be totally upset every few minutes if your sense of humor (or sensibilities) is (are) more delicate.
I have to go against the more popular three star choice because, while I did enjoy many parts of this book, it was just so random and unorganized I felt like I was reading the rough draft version before the editor even touched it.
I also grew tired of the constant commenting about how hard sitting down and writing the book was because it was very clear after the first third Silverman really wasn't into it anymore and it seemed like a chore for both her and the reader.
Loved reading about her childhood, not so much about her adulthood. She is pretty hilarious throughout, though.
She's funny; I liked her.
I listened to this to learn more about her, and was primarily surprised that the common references she makes to being hairy and having lots of dubiously forethought sex, as well as the bedwetting in the title, are all seriously affecting themes running through almost her whole life, and she has made substantial comedic hay out of challenges that would be socially crippling for many an average person.
Not to mention becoming beautiful, apparently well-adjusted, kind, and overcoming gender prejudice in her profession while being her own raunchy not-everyone's- into-it self.
Exceptionally well done.
Funny, candid, and crude (although sometimes abhorrently), Sarah Silverman is her usual self in this book.
But in my critical world, reader response is #1 and artistic intent is #2--I choose to consume, I am interested in its effect on me.
It's ironic, of course, because my response to Silverman must be how other people respond to me: "aw, why did he have to say THAT?"This book is different, though.
She throws in the occasional bomb, a deliberately offensive line, but it's clearly to remind you she's the Silverman you've seen on TV, not because it's her everyday speaking voice.Criticisms: I wearied during the sitcom-writing passages and the book lacked a satisfactory narrative climax--but what do you expect from someone who is only 41?Benefits: genuinely human, interesting story.
I laughed so hard reading this on the plane that people started to stare. I read a number of reviews that said this book isn't funny for the last half. I disagree. I laughed all the way through. Granted, reading about the culture at Saturday Night Live might not be as funny as you expected, but that's the point, at least partly.
Couldn't finish it. I respect her comedy and I was laughing at times but it just wasn't for me. Don't let my rating of it deter you, if you like Sarah you will appreciate this book.
New Hampshire: where cows are well done and Jews are rare. AND, where Sarah Silverman grew up.Sarah Silverman is SO vulgar and weird- but I heart her anyway.
On the front flap of comedienne Sarah Silverman's humorous memoir, The Bedwetter: Stories of Courage, Redemption, and Pee, there is a warning from the publisher.
Silverman divulges some behind the scenes from her short stint at Saturday Night Live, and does her fair share of name dropping, but isn't that what we are hoping for when we read the memoirs of famous people?
With fair warning that the crudeness of this book may shock you, it will also make you laugh quite out loud and will keep you up at night wanting to read just a few more pages.
Without glorifying her parents and siblings to the point where we want to roll our eyes and gag ourselves with spoons due to the gushy sentiments, Sarah explains why and how they helped shape her into the comedienne she is in the most tasteful, humorous manner possible.My favorite part of Silverman's The Bedwetter comes at the end of the book, in which there is an explicit and graphic picture of a co-worker's penis with a butterfly hairclip attached to it.
I've never seen her basic cable series that was on Comedy Central and was later canceled and picked up by a gay-oriented deep cable network, but it looks deeply obnoxious.Giving this a four instead of a three to balance out the negative reviews and because the few parts where she actually lifted a finger really, really work.
And I was plowing through it like a horse that had been slapped on the behind one too many times.Unfortunately, the second half turned into what felt like more of a promotion for The Sarah Silverman Program (TSSP for short) and contemplative reflection on her time on Saturday Night Live, where she told us on more than one occasion how none of her stories were picked up during her one year stint on the show and gave us a bit of insight into how the writing process actually worked.
Like me, though, you may end up a bit disappointed with the second half of the book.
Having only read one other book in similar vein, Bossypants by Tina Fey, I have to say this was probably more of what I would expect in a book by a comedian. It had me laughing out loud numerous times, no small feat...but also, Silverman's writing is much more personal (with a notable exception of almost any mention of Jimmy Kimmel) than Tina Fey's. For such a patently hilariously offensive person, it's really nice to sort of see behind the mask or really behind the poop and fart jokes. Recommended.
Not awful but not beyond just middling either. I learned two things reading this book. One: I don't care all that much about Sarah Silverman's childhood. Two: I don't think Sarah Silverman is all that funny nor are her anecdotes particularly entertaining.
