https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92508.The_Bridge_of_San_Luis_Rey
A monk named Brother Juniper uses the collapse for an investigation into the will of God. The bridge, you see, has stood for many years and safely allowed many thousands to cross the gorge.
Brother Juniper believed that by tracing the path of each person to the bridge, he could see - to use Melville's phrase - "God's foot upon the treadle of the loom." The book, thus, starts as an exploration of the divine plan.
The noon collapse of the bridge of San Luis Rey, not only killed the poor unfortunates, but maybe more important, showed the world, how precious life is.
At the mountain, Juniper decides to devote himself to finding out all he can, about the deceased.
Knocking on every door in the small capital city of Lima, talking with the people, filling many notebooks, writing a long book afterwards, from six years of an exhaustive investigation.
Later the somber Requiem Mass at the Cathedral, in Lima, for the poor victims, with the Archbishop presiding, the Viceroy in attendance, as are all the notable people of the city .
Just as Shakespeare hints at, only to dismiss, the possibility of a benign rationality in Lear’s madness and Cordelia’s death, so Wilder has Brother Juniper searching without result for the divine intention behind six apparently random casualties (I include his own).Where Wilder differs radically from Shakespeare is in his consistent sarcasm about his context: Spanish American culture, Peruvian colonial administration, the Catholic Church, and every one of his characters.
And Brother Juniper is despised and killed because of his interest in their lives.Thus it seems to me sentimental claptrap to interpret the story as endorsing the redemptive power of love.

Knowing the outcome of each tale adds a looming cloud of despair to the stories and makes the characters' situations that much more tragic.What many see as this book's major weakness and I found to be its greatest strength was the lack of answers to the questions first pondered by Brother Juniper when he witnessed the collapse of the bridge.
The only certainty is that, in one way or another, love brought each of those people to that bridge at that exact point.
This is poetic philosophy.I'd heard it was good, but I didn't know what to expect from Thornton Wilder's The Bridge of San Luis Rey. For all I knew, it took place somewhere along the Californian coast along with all the other Sans and Santas.
I love when a story transports me some place I've never been before.The concept in a nutshell as explained on Wikipedia:It tells the story of several interrelated people who die in the collapse of an Inca rope bridge in Peru, and the events that lead up to their being on the bridge.
In a desire to understand His intentions in a pure state, he sets in motion many interviews, reference sets, neighbourhood versions and historical records to draw concrete evidence about these five people who led largely different lives: An Aristocrat(also A Mother) and Her Help(also An Orphan), A War Veteran and His Find(also A Brother) and A Theatre Personality(also A Teacher).
There is a land of the living and a land of the dead and the bridge is love, the only survival, the only meaning.
Seeing as I study spanish, I loved the hispanic undertones to this book and enjoyed translating snippets from Castilian into English.
Not only this, but there was a strong Catholic undercurrent in the novel, no doubt a consequence of the denomination's popularity in the hispanic world, and this made for enjoyable analysing.
The novel is told by means of three separate stories, each one sending with the same event: the bridge.
Oh, even if you don't want to read the whole thing, I urge you to find the book and READ THE LAST PAGE!
“Some say that we shall never know, and that to the gods we are like the flies that the boys kill on a summer day, and some say, on the contrary, that the very sparrows do not lose a feather that has not been brushed away by the finger of God.” (p.12)Without the batting of an eye, Thorntorn Wilder’s presents his short story with the dilemma of the nature of the divine will and the resultant conflict between fate and randomness, faith and reason, meaning and absurdity.Set in the eighteenth century in Perú,  “The Bridge of San Luis Rey” focuses on the collapse of the mentioned ancestral bridge built during the Inka hegemony that unites the capital of Lima with the merchant town of Cuzco, taking away the lives of five people who happened to be crossing the bridge at the precise moment of the fatal accident.
And on that instant Brother Juniper made the resolve to inquire into the secret lives of those five persons, that moment falling through the air, and to surprise the reason of their taking off.There are so many unrelated people in the world, so many different fates and then unexpectedly some calamity may bring fates together in the most tragic way… Is it a dire misfortune or God’s Divine Providence?There is a land of the living and a land of the dead and the bridge is love, the only survival, the only meaning.
This leads to three intertwined backstories that all end in the collapse of the bridge of San Luis Rey. Such a cool concept, it was enough to keep me interested to see what he figures out!The best part for me was the writing.
In fact, after I was done, I went to find a synopsis of the book on Wikipedia to see if I had missed anything - I had not!
Sales would seem to indicate so.I recommend this book if you like classics or need to complete a must read list.
Set in a period of time when the Inquisition still dominates the Spanish World, it takes courage to try to figure things out by yourself instead of accepting blindly the dogma handed down from the leaders of the Church, but brother Juniper, like every one of us, has doubts and will spend six year combing through every little detail of the five lives that were cut short: He merely wanted to prove it, historically, mathematically, to his converts — poor obstinate converts, so slow to believe that their pains were inserted into their lives for their own good.
The first sentence of this novella grabs our attention: "On Friday noon, July the twentieth, 1714, the finest bridge in all Peru broke and precipitated five travelers into the gulf below." Brother Juniper was a witness to the terrible event and wondered why these five people were the victims.
Was it fate or divine intervention?For six years Brother Juniper studied the lives of these five people looking for patterns in their lives, or reasons that their deaths might be part of God's plan.
It is set in Peru and is centred on the collapse of a rope bridge which killed five people.
Wilder was asking “Is there a direction and meaning in lives beyond the individual’s own will?” It isn’t about why bad things happen to good people there are no conclusions, only ambiguity.
I am going to be predictable and quote the same passage everyone else does, because it hits the nail on the head in relation to what Wilder was saying;“But soon we shall die and all memory of those five will have left the earth, and we ourselves shall be loved for a while and then forgotten.
Those conditions aren’t ripe for books that make you think too much.In the early 1700s in Peru, five random travelers are in the wrong place at the wrong time when crossing an old Incan bridge and go splat.
The book gives a glimpse at the trials and tribulations of the people who died and the circumstances that had them on the bridge at that exact moment.There’s some great writing and good characters here, but there’s also an aloofness that makes you feel above caring about what happened to these people.
It can only be done by performing back flips that outrage any sense of natural justice - in his story, this turns out to be not merely pointless but shockingly, violently, disturbingly disastrous.
So Wilder is ploughing a pretty well-worked furrow, still furrowing his own brow over the question in 1927.
I suppose even if you leave transcendental beings out of it, that sense of natural justice still remains.
Humans like a nice direct line between cause and effect, which in itself is questionable in our messily interconnected world.
The very question is absurd.Basically, this is the conclusion that Wilder reaches too.
Even setting aside the fact that the depiction of the Marquesa is slightly awash in antiquated notions of feminine hysteria, this is not necessarily the strongest character of the cast, as she spends the majority of her time bemoaning her lonely predicament and the ways in which both her husband and daughter have left her behind.
We find out that all the stories within the book swirl around Brother Juniper, a devout member of the church who sees divine intention behind every action.
The stories are couched in a larger narrative, that is Brother Juniper’s search for the connection between the people who died.
He is not a friend to any of the 5 characters but he asks the similar questions trying to prove the omnipresence of God. Specifically, he poses this question on God's Providence: "Is there a direction and meaning in lives beyond the individual's own will?"In the last chapter of the book entitled "Perhaps an Intention", to answer this question, Brother Juniper even came up with a tabulation for each character and their scores on Goodness, Piety, Usefulness.
If he/she is bad, his/her death was God's punishment.However, in my edition's Afterword, Wilder, probably answering a reader's complaint that the book does not provide enough answers to the question it posits, says that this book is not to solve, i.e., the book's intent is 
Much is made of the fact that Brother Juniper is trying to discover God's Plan in his misapplied scientific investigation of the sudden deaths of the handful of Peruvians plunged to their death by a collapsing bridge in the 1700s, but Juniper's story just kind of peters out at the end.
The story of the Esteban brothers is the most interesting one, a great short story in its own right.
Wilder's protagonist never really finds out, and that's just fine.
Wilder keeps it short and sweet, but should he have?
What will be, will be.”and thus did she leave ” She wondered whether a subtle doctor cutting through to that battered throne could at last discover a sign and lifting his face to the amphitheatre cry out to his students: “This woman has suffered, and her suffering has left its mark upon the structure of her heart.”;A girl, an orphan, a child  Pepita was an orphan and had been brought up by that strange genius of Lima, the Abbess Madre María del Pilar., precociously matured into the world of elders  The education for greatness is difficult enough at any time, but amid the sensibilities and jealousies of a convent it must be conducted with fantastic indirection.,questioning her status quo, finally solaced in some way by the lady whom she provided her care.
Granted, there’s no modern fuss lately, but I mean the Pulitzer, the recent acclaim for Wilder’s novels more so than his plays.
Perhaps I would get more out of it if I read it again – now knowing the characters, their roles, how they overlap (because there is a lot of Spanish and church terminology: the Perichole, the Viceroy, the Archbishop, the Marquesa de Montemayor) – but I feel like the entire time I was reading this I was ready to be done with it.
Ok, true; but he didn’t really make me feel it here – and is that profound enough and written well enough to merit a Pulitzer?
The novel then embarked on an exploration of the background, lives, strengths, and weaknesses of the five people whose lives were rudely taken away when the Peruvian osier bridge gave way.
Did Brother Juniper’s experiment succeed in justifying the way of God to man and in rebuking the sneers cast at faith?
Baffling as it may seem, I think Wilder had a larger and nobler intent, which he conveyed in the events that transpired in the lives of the people close to the deceased.
I'm sure if I were to return to this novel in the future, I would be touched in a different way.
Here are a few of my favorite passages: "[Dona Maria] saw that the people of this world moved about in an armor of egotism, drunk with self-gazing, athirst for compliments, hearing little of what was said to them, unmoved by the accidents that befell their closest friends, in dread of all appeals that might interrupt their long communion with their own desires." (p.
113)And, of course, the final passage:"Even now, almost no one remembers Esteban and Pepita, but myself.
But soon we shall die and all memory of those five will have left the earth, and we ourselves shall be loved for a while and forgotten.
Even memory is not necessary for love.
Probabil aţi gândit-o chiar voi pentru a putea depăşi mai uşor pierderea subită a cuiva drag.
Pentru că e mai simplu.
Pentru că e frustrant să joci poker cu Dumnezeu şi să pierzi.
Fratele Juniper începe o minuţioasă anchetă pentru a afla de ce au murit tocmai aceşti oameni?
Ce păcate sau virtuţi le-au atras moartea?
O emoţionantă şi aparent simplă poveste a unor oameni pe care îi leagă, în afară de momentul morţii, anumite păcate într-ale iubirii.
Pentru că „există o lume a celor vii şi o lume a celor morţi, iar puntea care le uneşte este iubirea...
I had such high hopes for this book. It sounded like a plot I should love, and it's a classic, Pulitzer Prize-winning book by one of America's best-loved authors. How could it not be a wonderful reading experience? Somehow, though, I just didn't enjoy it. I never came to feel anything for any of the characters and the writing didn't age well for me. I was anxious to just finish it and move on. Sigh.
I had high hopes for this one! I loved the premise but the whole thing remained pretty flat throughout. It was a short quick read tho, I read thru in less than two hours so not a major time investment. 3 stars is on the high side for how bored I was while reading this, but I gave an extra star for concept:)
After a bridge in Peru collapses, killing 5, a local monk named Brother Juniper goes about learning their stories and trying to determine why they died.
The results are interesting because there are no answers.
The book actually inserts contradictions, and leaves Brother Juniper (and the reader) in a place where he must determine for himself the whys.
I liked this aspect of the book as death is like that.
We find ourselves looking back at the lives of our friends and seeking from God the answers we need.
منذ مدة طويلة لم اقرأ سرد كهذا , هذا الذي يمكن وصفه بالمحموم لن تستطيع معه حبس انفاسك , سرد عبقري يذ
DNF, I just didn't want to pick it up bad enough to finish, I got to page 41 and was forever distracted
الترجمة تعيسة جدا قتلت الرواية
A perfect tale read at the perfect time.But her biographers have erred in one direction as greatly as the Franciscan did in another; they have tried to invest her with a host of graces, to read back into her life and person some of the beauties that abound in her letters, whereas all real knowledge of this wonderful woman must proceed from the act of humiliating her and of divesting her of all beauties save one.The Conde delighted in her letters, but he thought that when he had enjoyed the style he had extracted all their richness and intention, missing (as most readers do) the whole purport of literature, which is the notation of the heart.
