https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/403745.Walk_The_World_s_Rim
Of over 600 men only 4 survived, including Cabeza de Vaca, two others and a black slave, Esteban.
This YA novel is from the perspective of Chakoh, a young boy, from the Avavare tribe who befriended the Spaniards for the sake of their 'medicine'.
The tension throughout revolves around the issue of slavery which the young Chakoh has been taught to believe is dishonorable.
Interesting perspective story as race is never the issue here.
It is only when Esteban's status as a slave is revealed, their friendship undergoes a transition and Chakoh finds his comfortable mores challenged.
Another reason young people need to read books from/about different cultures/eras.
I have read this aloud twice and I am still not sure what I think. In some ways, it is very well written and does give you a feel for the time and the place, the defeat of the Aztecs in Mexico and the Indian tribes of the Southwest. But in other ways, it is difficult to read.
It provided for some great discussions about what greed can do to people, about being judgmental, and of the injustices of slavery.
Most importantly however, we discussed how we should treat people if we are truly interested in spreading the word of God. My daughter and I both wondered how many natives were and still are to this day ultimately turned off by Christianity, due to the many injustices suffered by them at the hands of those bringing Christianity to them?
The ending of this book was rather sad too, but again a great lesson in keeping one's honor until the end regardless of the consequences.
Great book, for sure!
I read this aloud to my 8 and 10 year old boys, and we loved it. Great story while also delving into honor and shame, African slavery and Native American slavery. Based on a true story. Wonderfully brought deep themes to a child's level. We all loved it.
Did this as a read aloud for my 9 year old daughter. It was a wonderful read. While it was a bit slow to start, it was thought provoking and had a lot of good historical information.
One of the problems with the history books I had in school is that they didn't know how to tell a story.
They would present names and dates and I would learn a bunch of facts, but I had no clue what it might have been like for the people living through those events.
Well, this is a long winded way to say that this book tells a story.
He has heard the tales of the wealth of Mexico and hopes that he might be able to learn enough of their god's medicine to help his impoverished people.
He tells the boy, who I'm sure was hungry, as perhaps they were fantasizing about what they would eat if the options were limitless.
But Esteban surprised the boy when he said that if he were at a feast such as this, he would take a slice of meat as thick as a sliver of wood, a tiny scoop hear, a nibble there, and throw away the rest to the dogs!
The boy, appalled, questioned Esteban as to why he would throw away such good and wonderful food, especially when they were so hungry.
Amazing fictional telling centered on Esteban, the slave belonging to Dorantes--one of just a few who survived the journey from Cuba to Florida with Cabeza de Vaca. I can't recommend it enough. This book does not glorify the Spanish settlers, neither does it glorify Native American culture. It is altogether down-to-earth, believable, and tugs at the heartstrings. It required my children to think through complex issues like slavery, pre-conceived ideas, how we judge one another, religion, honor, and keeping one's word.Excellent book. The ending made us all cry.
Three Spaniards from a failed expedition are traveling with one other man called Esteban, but known as the Dark One. They are the only survivors out of 600 men. Their travel has been nothing but hardship. As they come to Chakoh's village, they find another companion in their travel to Mexico. Chakoh looks up to Esteban, but has a lot to learn about life, friendship, and sometimes about things he thinks he already knows.
I am currently reading this aloud with my two children. It is an excellent and moving story of life in the southwest and Mexico during the early years of conquest and exploration. Seen mostly through the eyes of a young Native American boy, land ownership, greed, slavery are tackled and examined. Very moving.
The ending was bitter sweet, I don't think i '' love'' bitter sweet endings though, it feels just a bit sad.I think i enjoy books that have Happy Endings, like american girl books! This was a fun book, some times i forget he is 14, and think he is my age!
I enjoyed a lot of the information and ideas presented in the book, but didn't enjoy the story.
Actual rating: 2.5 stars
Interesting story based on real events as the Spanish are building missions and converting/enslaving Natives
Eli: 4⭐, Abby: 2.5⭐, Grace 4⭐
Eli: 4⭐️, Abby: 2.5⭐️, Grace 4⭐️
This is a wonderful historical fiction novel for young people!
This one is a little slow to get into but has a lot of depth and intricacies that can be discussed about this period of history and the culture clashes that were portrayed. I think a lot of it went over the head of my daughter, but I think I will enjoy reading it again and will have her sit in on it the second time around.
I had to read this for history and literature in seventh grade, and I hated it then and suffered through it.
I disliked the book so much I blocked most of it from my memory, but I do remember a few things.
It was very boring and very strange, and that's all that matters in my memory.
I don't think I disliked the two main characters, but I don't even remember - I must've been indifferent or not liked them enough to redeem the book in my eyes.
I read this book aloud to my children.This is based on a true story, and it is about a 14 year-old Indian boy named Chakoh who has lived a very poor and hard life.
For seven years, the four Spaniards – together with their Negro slave, Esteban - lived among the Gulf Coast Indians.
The promise of food lures young Chakoh, and he wants to travel with the Spaniards and Esteban to Mexico.
Chakoh sets out with the Spaniards and Esteban to Mexico.I enjoyed the book, and I was surprised at how much my 9 year-old daughter enjoyed it even though the content was quite sombre.
This is one of the books in the Sonlight curriculum for fourth grade U.S. History.
It is the story of a young Indian boy that follows three Spaniards and their slave through Indian territory to Mexico.
All of the men are searching for riches of one kind or another, except the slave who is content to serve his master with honor.
I thought is book was very thought provoking.
It dealt with what it means to be a slave.
It dealt with becoming a slave of our own desires, and how to set ourselves free.
We had some very deep and thought provoking discussions around this book.
An historical novel for older children that recounts the events of the Narvaez expedition of 1527 led by Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca during the time of the Spanish conquest of Mexico.
Only four explorers survived the expedition, De Vaca being one of them, and they spent the next eight years traveling the US Southwest.
The story focuses on the relationship between one of the survivors, the black slave Esteban, and a young native American boy named Chakoh.
They forge a close relationship, and Chakoh's understanding of the larger world, and what it means to be a slave while upholding one's honor, grows as a result.
Chakoh is a boy in an Indian village in East Texas. His clan is dying. The buffalos no longer come this far South. They have been suffering from a drought for many years, and all the crops have died. When Spanish explorers come through the village with tales of the fabulous place they are heading, Chakoh's father decides to send him along to learn how to save the village. Chakoh learns some hard lessons about honor and loyalty and bias. My 13-year-old son and I both enjoyed this book. We had some good discussion about prejudice and decision making.
"Author Betty Baker weaves a fascinating story of the travels of 14-year-old Chakoh as he leaves his homeland to travel to Mexico with the fabled Esteban. A captivating look a Cabeza de Vaca's 16th century expedition through the southwest, the story explores many Native American cultures and their relationships with the Spanish explorers. The ending is bittersweet as Chakoh ultimately decides to leave the more prosperous Mexico to return to his starving tribe."We really enjoyed reading and discussing this book.
Savannah gives this book 5 stars. It was another book that I thought the writing might be a little over her head or she might not get what all was happening, so I was very surprised to hear she liked it enough for 5 stars! I loved it too. This was another part of history I don't think I ever learned about in school and so many good lessons from the story. I love Esteban and love how he tries to teach Chakoh as they "walk the world's rim" together.
My son and I read this book as part of our Sonlight American History Curriculum. We LOVED it. The author has created a personal and touching fictional story interwoven with real historical individuals and events. Very thought provoking regarding issues of slavery and treatment of Native Americans. Also highlights the diverse motives of individuals coming to the New World ranging from a lust for wealth to a genuine desire to bring Christianity to the natives.
This true story takes place in the 1500's. It would be appropriate for ages 9 and up. It starts in the desert area of Texas, and the characters travel to Mexico. The Chakoh, an indian boy and Estabon, a black slave. The book is about chakoh going to Mexico to learn of christanity. He also wants to learn how to plant because his family is very poor. I could really feel like I was with them throughout the book. The ending was very harsh and brutal. Overall though I really enjoyed the book.
This book was part of our 3rd grade history curriculum, and my daughter and I read it together. It provided applicable examples and perspectives of life as a Native American, as a slave, and as a Spaniard settling in North America. My daughter attached to the slave in this book and **SPOILER ALERT** was in tears during the last couple chapters. Great read to accompany the study of American History.
An at times fun, at times gritty, historical-adventure novel based on true events. This imaginative tour of Native American societies in the early 16th century covers vast territory and leaves a big impact. Because of some rather abstract soul-searching passages, readers below 5th grade may bog down just a couple of times late in the book.
This was my second read-through of this book, with the second group of children. The years between did nothing to help me enjoy this book but the 11 year olds enjoyed it. Their thought was that it gave them new insights into the story of Estaban since their history book only had a paragraph or two. I still think the writing is lacking in mighty ways.
This one had my kids asking me to "Keep reading, please!!" A well-written description of a young Native American boy's struggle with changing culture. Should he remain in the comforts of the mission in Mexico, or should he return to his starving village and teach them how to grow crops and survive? Esteban is an easy to love hero--patient, noble, a man of his word. Excellent read!
