https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47163.The_Norton_Anthology_of_English_Literature_Volume_2
A few non-Western authors, but not so many that this anthology won't sell to American readers!I guess what disturbs me most about teaching from these is that my students read the introductions, commentary, and footnotes to each work as the God's truth.
In particular, I was disturbed by a footnote in Nawal El Saadawi's "In Camera" in which my students, many of whom have never encountered another Arab person let alone an Arab work of literature, were told by the Norton Anthology that a male character's thoughts could be explained "According to the Arab-Islamic code of honor, decreed and upheld by men." Thanks for the vague yet damaging generalization, Norton!
This was my father's book when he read literature at university. It was a great introduction to English Lit. Especially since I lived in a rural farming community and TV and radio reception was spotty. Mum and Dad would tell us stories from the book and read aloud many of the poems.It was a very important book to me. I used it when when I was at secondary school and university.
If you are required to buy this book for a course, my review won't matter to you much one way or another, so this is slated towards the latter group.This is an excellent resource for English literature selections and excerpts.
S. Gilbert- Charles Darwin- John Tyndall- Leonard Huxley- Sir Edmund Gosse- Thomas Babington Macaulay- Friedrich Engels- Charles Kingsley- Charles Dickens- Herbert Spencer- Sarah Stickney Ellis- George Eliot- Dinah Maria Mulock- Florence Nightingale- Walter Besant- William Ernest Henley- Oscar Wilde- Francis Thompson- Rudyard Kipling- Ernest DowsonTHE TWENTIETH CENTURY- Thomas Hardy- Gerald Manley Hopkins- Bernard Shaw- Joseph Conrad- A.
There are always going to be canons created, no doubt about it, but - again - by providing as relevant a range of texts as possible, and reinforced by talented teachers, anthologies can encourage readers to dive further into the pool rather than luring them to the shallow parts with treats.*If you find the argument that canons need to be questioned objectionable - and, as I say, as a literary graduate I understand this - I recommend googling people who are really passionate about maintaining the canon.
Criticize the Norton if you dare. For value in teaching (and studying) a survey course, there just isn't anything better. And I think their passages from longer works are generally right on the money. The only problem is that, without the context of the larger work, the passages sometimes don't make sense. Still, this is it. The required reading, in condensed form. Good luck.
I rely heavily on all my Norton Anthology volumes. They have chicken scratches throughout the pages, are falling apart but I cherish them.
It’s interesting to think about the thoughts and feelings of people depicted on an urn and I enjoyed Keats’ thoughts on the matter.Sonnets from the Portuguese, 43 ( “How do I love thee?
This is a fantastic poem I urge all people to read.Dover Beach, Mathew Arnold 4/5This isn’t one of my favourite poems, personally I think it’s a little overrated but it has its moments and its message is a good one.
Every time I read this poem I feel a little ping it’s so sad and beautiful.A Room of One’s Own, Virginia Woolf 5/5Whether it’s the prose of a story or an essay, Woolf was a master with words.
My Holy Book
I actually really liked almost of all the works in this anthology. I love the Norton Anthologies.
Illuminating Passiveness: the Ultimate Wisdom in Nature  William Wordsworth is universally known as a great poet whose poems played a tremendous role and was one of most influential and leading figures in the emergence of Romanticism. He published his collection of poems, known as the Lyrical Ballads, in 1798, which was around the beginnings of the Romantic era of the British literature. One of his poems in the Lyrical Ballads is called Expostulation and Reply, in which Wordsworth emphasizes on
One of his poems in the Lyrical Ballads is called Expostulation and Reply, in which Wordsworth emphasizes on themes of the Romantic movement through his asserting on the importance of contemplating nature and harnessing imagination to derive feelings, stimulate senses and therefore gain wisdom in life.
But in his poem, Wordsworth comes again to save those like him, who believe in nature and its beauty, by asserting that if people just look around them calmly and wisely without the modern-human rush, they can capture the whole idea without their endless seeking of truth.
This second volume includes three volumes of the Norton Anthology, volumes D, E, and F. These volumes cover the Romantic period, Victorian age, and Twentieth Century and after. Some of my favorite authors from this volume are William Blake, Lord Byron, John Keats, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Emily Bronte, Lord Tennyson, Charles Dickens, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Rupert Brooke, Wilfred Owen, William Butler Yeats, Stevie Smith, Carol Ann Duffy, Margaret Atwood, and Hanif Kureishi.
The Norton Anthology covers the Romantic Period, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, William Wordsworth, Percy Bysshe Shelley--all of which I like. The authors' biographies aren't too posh-sounding and are rather informative than scholarly, which I like. The estimated weight of this book, however, must be over two kilograms, which I do not like (hence the four stars). I will be happily re-selling this copy after finishing my introductory literature course.
No I did not read every page of this, but you bet I'm counting the three hundred I did xD
A good collection piece to read occasionally without Order. Pretty hefty!
This was one of my textbooks (for my "Victorian Literature" calss in New Zealand), but I think anyone who is interested in great literature would find the investment wise.
It covers the time periods from The Romantic Period (1785-1830) to the The Victorian Age (1830-1901) and ending with The Twentieth Century.
Obviously, in my class we only covered a touch of the Romantic stuff and the Victorian selections.
We didn't touch the 20th Century at all.
These selections are not only great for the literature aspect, but also as a comment on life during these time periods, which satifies anyone with an historical bent.
I've marked this book as read (on the basis that I've spent hours and hours of study time going through the notes, essays and references, and have probably dipped into every text in the book at least superficially).
In English literature, the criteria for what makes a good textbook are a little different - or at least I think so.
I like a footnote with a bit of showmanship, sark even, which this text delivers, along with really useful historical references, dates, and all the usual essentials.The downsides?
I fully expect to return to it many times in years to come.
While Volume 1 of this awesome Norton Anthology of English Literature primarily covers the Middle Ages, The 16th century, the early 17th century & The 18th century, this 2nd volume deals with Romantic Period [Blake, Wollstonecraft, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Keats etc), The Victorian Age (Carlyle, Cardinal Newman, Bronte, Huxley etc) and the 20th century (Hardy, Shaw, Yeats, Joyce, T.S Eliot, Orwell, Beckett, Morrison etc).I bought this book back in 2002 in Borders Bookstore for only S$12!
While I can’t and won’t read every page of this bulky volume, I’d treasure this book for a lifetime and passing it to generation under me perhaps.
I'd say I read 85% of them this time around, more than I would have read in a classroom.I am a big fan of Victorian novels and I wanted to read some essays, poetry, and see how 19th century British literature evolved.
William Morris is a God. I think it all ends with Yeats, though there are some fine modern writers.
History stays with us, and in some ways, we are still very much Victorians, which has to be the most ambivalent group in history.
In some ways, the novel, it's form and function will always belong to them.

anthologies suck in general, because their animating concept is just a bad idea--they are in fact the special bearer of the Form of the Bad Idea.
or is it just a form of an idea that's merely inside someone's head, and istherefore a copy of a form that inside the form of someone's head, or what?)Norton anthologies are double-suck because the editorial policy is horrible as to what is selected and what is explained & noted.
the assumption at Norton, for the anthologies, is that the undergraduates will not know anything about homer, requiring detailed notes, but obscure references to valerius flaccus will go unnoted.
Obviously i have not read every page.
But i refer to it on occasion to read and re-read some of my favourite poetry.
A very comprehensive set, which took me AGES to save up for, and my course was only 6 months from finishing by the time i got my own copies.
Money well spent.
I keep returning to those wonderful Romantics, particularly Keats and Shelley (or is that Sheets and Kelley??), and Blake.
I also love Tennyson, and the Pre-Raphaelites--though I don't think there is enough Pre-Raphaelite content in the Norton because of the prodigious literary output of the Victorian period.
Norton is a great anthology book; it contains introductions of different literary ages and in every age most important & influential British literary men & women ( mostly poets) have been introduced. Furthermore, their works not all of them but the most famous works have been attached there of course with their useful footnotes. By the end of the book, readers will confront with small chapter named Poems in Process. The chapter illuminates how poets edit& reproduce their poetries with various examples.
I like this series of textbooks. Each section has a clear, concise introduction to different aspects of that theme. It provides brief, informative biographies on each author. It includes a wide variety of authors and poets to choose from. There is no way you could cover everything in this book in one semester. It has wonderful footnotes to help clarify archaic words and phrases as well. All this is presented without any kind of opinion or critique, leaving the passages open for debate or personal interpretation. I really enjoyed it.
This was my college textbook in the 60's. I despised having to carry it around, but I found an awful lot of good literature in it. I most clearly remember the Victorian poets. Tennyson's Mariana, a favorite among my female classmates frequently comes to mind. Considering that the contents, aside from critical commentary are long past copyright protection, just about all the volume's numerous contents must be widely available gratis through the technological ether.
I enjoyed most of the author introductions, though some of the information felt irrelevant. I got a kick out of some of the footnotes. Some were completely redundant, and made me feel like this book caters towards middle or high schoolers. Other than that, this is a relatively comprehensive book about British literature from the Romantic Period to the 20th century (includes many works from important authors).
This was much easier to read than volume one. We were finally able to read something other than ballads, epics, and, poetry this semester. I know it is strange to some, but I just loved reading the works of Wollstonecraft, Coleridge,Shelley, Austen, Browning, and one of my new favorites Tennyson. There is something empowering in taking a work that at first seems impossible to comprehend and then breaking it down and unveiling the absolute beauty of words.
I give it a 3/5 because, though I read it regularly, I find its claims of coming close to the title of "World Literature" to be ill-deserved. There are only a handful of non-Western writers that are not well-represented at all, each one being given only a few pages at most. However, were this only for Western Literature, it would be quite well-balanced book (not allowing for certain ambiguous and vague footnotes).
Great collection of texts, though I have to admit that what really tickled my fancy was the footnote by the Norton group within one of Oscar Wilde's plays: "Although Australia had originally been a place to which criminals were banished, it was, by this time [1890s], like Canada, a place to which families might send harmless but useless members, who would be paid an allowance to remain abroad."
The only university book I ever kept. It covers the Romantic Period (1785-1830; Burns, Mary Wollstonecraft, and Coleridge), which I so loved, through the Victorian (1830-1901; John Stuart Mill, Robert Browning, Wilde), and on on through the Twentieth Century (Housman, Auden, and...not much else. :). Good stuff. I love the Brits.
this is actually my textbook for a british lit class, but i have fallen in love with it. the selections are wonderful, and the introductions and footnotes are all clear and useful. i suppose i have a love-hate relationship with most of the romantics, but i found myself leaning towards loving them somehow--though perhaps that had more to do with the class itself.
