https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31612.Nietzsche_s_Zarathustra
اگر با تن تان بدرفتاری کنید، شما را کاملاً از خانه بیرون می کند، یعنی به بیرون از جسم رانده می شوید.
اشیا بی جان اند؛ به لَختی بر زمین پهن شده اند؛ نه پا دارند و نه بال، و مردم گاه بسیار بد با آنها رفتار می کنند.اگر من عجول باشم و مثلاً کتاب ها را بدجوری ورق بزنم، برای این اشیای بیچاره، بدبختی تاسف آوری به بار می آورم.
چون با آن ها بدرفتاری کرده ام، به شیوه خودشان به مخالفت با من بر می خیزند.من می گویم: «اوه، اشیای لعنتی، چیزهای مرده و بی جان، شما نفرت انگیزید!» و آن ها بلافاصله جان می گیرند.
A treasure trove of Jung's thoughts on analytical psychology seen through the lens of Thus Spake Zarathustra.
The drawback here is organization.
Jung allows a sequential reading of Nietzsche's work to dictate the order of ideas presented, so a variety of topics--projection, the anima, Christianity--may appear together in one chapter whose uniting focus is a given passage from Zarathustra.
One multifaceted work therefore gives rise to another.
It's as if Jung donned a safari hat and took his audience on a hunt for the wild Nietzsche--in Nietzsche's own unconscious.
Although Jung made some fascinating clarifications and some crucial criticisms towards Nietzsche, the ever-morphing system of Nietzsche’s ideas is almost never taken into account, let alone the readings that he preferred (except one, in the chapter of Zarathustra flying).
Balanced, in a sense that Nietzsche’s idea is defended with reverence by the latter, and refuted with wisdom by the former.Now comes to the commentary on Jung and the content of the book.
For this I am eternally grateful.Throughout the book, Jung made clear distinction between Nietzsche the person and his greatness.
Jung had some interesting ideas about Nietzsche, and it is a good source for looking Nietzsche as a psychologist.
If you’re interested in Nietzsche, don’t start here. Do yourself a favor and pick up a collection of his works, Beyond Good and Evil, Genealogy or Morals, or The Birth of Tragedy.
Anybody who is with you at that moment would be in between; the final fight is with yourself, and everything else is - or may be - a hindrance”*Shortly after noontide on the train between Dresden and Berlin, I finished reading the transcripts of the Zarathustra Seminars.
At over 1,500 pages, it is not a work of economy as narrow, thematically-focussed analyses of literature are wont to be, but an expedition which goes through by chapter with a fine-toothed comb.The seminars are effectively an epic case study of Nietzsche-Zarathustra, dealing with highly differentiated intuition, inflation/identification with unconscious contents, projections, the shadow (inferior man), collective unconscious, and to a lesser extent anima psychology among other things.
A seminal work from Jung.
His insights into the motivation, meaning and possible psychological reasoning behind Nietzsche's work are invaluable for students of Nietzsche and Jung.
The insight into the possible inflation of Nietzsche's mind by the archetype calling itself 'Zarathustra' is perhaps telling of Jung's psychology and is thus invaluable for anyone seeking to understand the complex balances of invoking any form of consciousness through ritual and the associated risks.
Jung's notion that Nietzsche was unaware of the inflation and thus ultimately fell into madness is perhaps a warning for those who may dabble with invocation without a grasp of their own deific state first.
Jung, Nietzsche's Zarathustra: Notes of the Seminar Given in 1934-39 [2 vol].
Scandalously neglected by scholars of Nietzsche, Jung's notes circulated for years among his students achieving a "cult" status.
In Jung's reading Nietzsche is possessed by archetypical powers and eventually swallowed up by Zarathustra in an act of self-sacrifice / self-annihilation.
Zarathustra thus becomes the sarcophagus of Mr Nietzsche: "You see, that is the spirit when it breaks away.
Zarathustra is a very wise and beautiful spirit in a way, and then he is the devil himself..."
Great lens to view Zarathrustra through, or useful as a window into Jung's ideas, this transcript gives a comprehensive dissection of Nietzsche's poetic-philosophic-prophetic masterpiece qua an analysis of the great philologist's psyche.Ironically, perhaps, given both Jung's coining of the term sychronicity and the controversial synonymity of Nietzsche and the Nazi regime , these seminars coincided with Hitler's rise in power, and were permanently interrupted in 1939 by the outbreak of WW2; not before the bulk of Z had been 'overmentioned' (awful pun).Anybody interested in Nietzsche, Jung, Psychology, Philosophy, Consciousness or Literary Formalism may be engaged by this book.
I didn't finish all the way, but I'm definately not still reading it. However, it was fascinating when i was reading it, and I'll finishi it. I had to put it on hold for school. Now school is a non issue, and i have time to read :)
a grail seen but never read more than a chapter or so. Some day.
vaghti yong dar nmoderde chonin goft zartoshte niche harf bezanad va rvankavane maloom ast ke koolak ast
کمک!
I'm hoping to find these volumes for under $50, but it doesn't seem likely.I wouldn't be satisfied with the abridged version.
