https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2054.The_Long_Goodbye
While a bit bloated, this is a novel of near perfection in the mystery genre that is guaranteed to keep you up at night, gladly dropping more quarters for another dryer cycle in order to keep reading because a mystery with Marlowe is about as good as life gets.To label this novel perfection would be to bastardize any opinions on the literature more widely accepted by the academy that I’ve previously championed and praised, but few novels have felt like a better friend in hard times than The Long Goodbye.
511. The Long Goodbye (Philip Marlowe, #6), Raymond ChandlerThe Long Goodbye is a novel by Raymond Chandler, published in 1953, his sixth novel featuring the private investigator Philip Marlowe. Some critics consider it inferior to The Big Sleep or Farewell, My Lovely, but others rank it as the best of his work. Chandler, in a letter to a friend, called the novel "my best book". خداحافظی طولانی - ریموند چندلر (روزنه کار) ادبیات آمریکا؛ یکی از صد داستان جنایی برتر دنیا؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز سو
Chandler, in a letter to a friend, called the novel "my best book".
توی یک ماشین رولزرویس نقره ای رنگ بیرون تراس رستوران دنبرز مست بود، مسئول پارکینگ ماشین را آورده بود و همینطور درو واز نگه داشته بود.
چون پای چپ تری لنوکس هنوز بیرون ماشین آویزان بود.
چهره اش جوون به نظر میاومد؛ ولی موهاش سفید استخونی بود.
رو لبهاش لبخند دوری بود و رو شونه هاش یه پالتو خز آبی که تقریبا باعث میشد اون رولز رویس مثل هر ماشین دیگه ای به نظر بیاد.
Chandler’s known as the king of LA noir and word is this is his best. His writing is lean and clean, short staccato sentences with not a word wasted. Almost poetic in its brevity – not to be confused with lack of substance. Humour me, I’m trying it out on this review (view spoiler)[it's fun - you should try it sometime (hide spoiler)] Marlowe’s amazingly complex, a fast-talking P.I. surviving on tough cynicism. Deep down just a stand-up guy with a soft spot for underdogs. Got a moral core that e
His writing is lean and clean, short staccato sentences with not a word wasted.
You're a shadow on the wall.” But walking away just ain't in his make-up.A taste of Marlow's world  “I drove back to Hollywood feeling like a short length of chewed string.
Inside my head thoughts stuck together like flies on flypaper.” He builds characters effortlessly – again in just a few words.
Take this pair of Homicide Detectives "He was gray blond and looked sticky.
He seems to like them anyway.
My GR buddies guided me to Chandler as an intro to the world of hard-boiled detective novels.
O anche alle imitazione del custode del Malibu Colony.Ma oltre a questi sentimenti ‘retro’, c’è ironia e umorismo da vendere, macchiette, caricature, alleggerimento, diluizione della suspense.È un noir così atipico che è girato quasi tutto di giorno, senza neon e asfalti bagnati in controluce (il direttore della fotografia è il grande Vilmos Zsigmond, che in post-produzione sovraespose il negativo alla luce per smorzare i neri e ammorbidire i colori fino a raggiungere tonalità pastello).Le vicine di casa, sempre nude, sempre tra lo strafatto e lo sciroccato.È un film con un investigatore privato protagonista e non vediamo mai il suo ufficio, con la classica porta a vetri, e la bottiglia di bourbon nascosta nel cassetto della scrivania.
Soon these unlikely two become friends , Mr. Marlowe keeps Terry from the drunk tank, the next time he sees him, trying to be vertical, on the streets of Los Angeles, hustles him away, when a cop notices..
.. They later become drinking partners, at a dingy bar, but happiness does not last, Mr. Lennox is just a front, to keep the promiscuous Sylvia, looking respectable, Daddy is a cold, conservative, honorable man, no bad publicity, he likes it as much as a stock market crash, but a murder is committed, there will be more, and Terry is suspected, the hero flees to Mexico, with the assistance of Philip, who asks not the right questions, a pal is a pal.
A down and out friend of Marlowe's flees to Mexico with Marlowe's help, his wife dead under suspicious circumstances.
Marlowe's friend soon turns up dead, an apparent suicide.
On the other hand, it's written a little differently than his other Philip Marlowe books.
It's more philosophical and less crime-oriented.
The two victims in the story seem to be stand-ins for Chandler himself.It's still crime oriented, though.
I got there just before Marlowe did but it was a close shave.What else is there to say without giving anything away?
His use of metaphor is so good that he is still an original, even after lesser noirists have copied or stolen from him outright for the past sixty years.Yet for a hardboiled novel with the slickest of metaphors, Chandler is still a very sensitive writer.
Chandler maybe even put part of himself into this story, with the parts with the writer down on his luck, or the scarred sympathetic veteran.
He may be 'only' a genre writer, but to hell with that.
It is my firm opinion he's one of the best prose stylists the US has produced in the 20th century.
Marlowe stays mum during brutal police questioning and is held in jail for a few days.
A murder takes place that he might have prevented, putting Marlowe into high gear to solve the linked cases and foil the pervasive efforts of powerful forces to suppress the truth.Despite the troubles with alcohol that beset his two main characters and Chandler himself, he has a wonderful way of capturing the allure Marlowe finds in drinking with Lennox:“I like bars just after they open for the evening.
Marlowe’s jaded attitude about conventional justice is nicely expressed is this diatribe:“Let the law enforcement people do their own dirty work.
Luckily, these two novels are very separate beasts; while both feature plot-threads involving alcoholic, asshole authors, they go their own separate, heart-stomping ways.If put on the spot for a fortune-cookie summarization of the two books, I’d say the The Last Good Kiss is about the fleeting temporality of love and the lingering heaviness of its loss, while The Long Goodbye, more than anything, is a slow-burning rumination on the nature of friendship.In the earlier novels, all the events transpire usually under 48 hours, with Marlowe getting assigned a case in the first few pages, and then finding the first in a long trail of dead bodies by page 20.
As a mystery book it is really third-rate, so let us just call it classic drama with some mystery elements, just to be fair.Philip Marlowe does not feel the same to the extent that I would like to ask the late author, "Who the heck is the guy impersonating him and what happened to the real one?" Gone are brilliant one-liners of the previous books which give a good picture with minimum effort.
This time we have sentences like, "Several weeks passed" on practically every page.Continuing the theme of the guy impersonating Marlowe in the book, he really acts out of character here.
Când a ajuns pe la jumătatea distanței, polițistul cu păr cenușiu, Jim, a scos un țipăt înăbușit și a sărit spre Macdonald, agățându-se de buzunarul lui.
A întins mâna lui mare, l-a apucat pe Jim de ambele revere ale hainei și l-a ridicat.
Jim a agitat pumnii spre el și l-a lovit în față de două ori.
Macdonald a strâns din buze.""Am stat nemișcat, ascultând intens.
Dincolo de mine nu era nici sunet, nici lumină.
O rază de lumină a apărut pe sub ușa batantă care dădea spre sufragerie.
Lumina se revărsa în alcovul care era sufrageria, dincolo de arcadă.
He lives to solve the problem without regard to both those he affects and those who affect him; he must have an indifference to life made of steel, if not a mental complex the size of the city he resides in.
Different words, but our motives and thought patterns still follow stupidly predictable ways for those who can see it.
Raymond Chandler can definitely see it, and shows it to the rest of us in a way that leaves us craving more.
There's no greater escape from the bullshit of your own life than through a novel that cuts through its own, and it is inherently addicting.
“I was as hollow and empty as the spaces between stars.” ― Raymond Chandler, The Long GoodbyeLabels like genius and masterpiece get thrown around a lot in the arts.
Raymond Chandler is one of those later writers.He is one of the Holy Trinity of detective novelists (along with Dashiell Hammett and James M.
Obviously, I adore the genre and the writer, but even if I work hard to remove my own biases it is difficult to walk away from 'The Long Goodbye' without recognizing what a gift was thrown at our underserving, flat feet.
The ex-wife is hard-nosed, unsympathetic, dispensable; Marlowe is, against his better judgement, and for no personal gain, drawn to Lennox and wants to help him; and Terry is vulnerable, in need of help, and likely to bring in his wake a whole lot of trouble.
If that is so, then one might look to Roger Wade, the alcoholic writer, as the most obvious example, for not only is he different from what one would usually encounter in Chandler’s stuff, but he could even be said to be a stand-in for the man himself.
And when it works, it really is quite the great little experience; imagine walking around a city of four million people and constantly running across others reading the same exact book you're reading, in cafes and on the train and at discussion clubs and while waiting in line at the supermarket, and all the fun little intelligent conversations such a thing inspires among complete strangers.And the latest OBOC choice (their fourteenth) is a real doozy, too; it's The Long Goodbye by Raymond Chandler, the last great novel by one of the most truly American writers our country has ever seen, a book both popular with the mainstream and historically important to the world of arts and letters.
Come principale protagonista c’è l’alcool, motore e spinta propulsiva della storia, che scorre a fiumi nelle case eleganti dei quartieri più esclusivi e nei bar silenziosi di Los Angeles; ci sono i bulli dal grilletto facile, grandi criminali tenutari di case da gioco in Nevada, messicani dal sangue caliente e con la violenza a fior di pelle; ci sono le pupe, splendide donne eleganti e sensuali che provocano bollori al primo sguardo (anche se poi, quando vai a guardare meglio, trovi marcio sotto pelle); ci sono poliziotti corrotti che girano scortati da gangster nelle strade di Los Angeles; ci sono anche poliziotti onesti che si sentono falliti per aver pensato che il mondo è diviso in due, i buoni e i cattivi da sterminare; ed infine c’è lui, Philip Marlowe, un duro, un cinico, un saggio che ha capito come va il mondo, cui è chiaro come “il potere d’acquisto del dollaro” sia ciò che fa girare le cose, ed il caso che gli si presenta ne è la lampante dimostrazione: la morte della figlia di un milionario californiano, magnate dell’editoria.
Chandler wrote tighter, tougher books, but this one was his masterpiece.
R. Burnett but they didn't write like Chandler.
Marlowe's loyalty and friendship are wasted on the unworthy Terry Lennox.
His best efforts are for naught on the blocked writer Roger Wade.
His attractions are wasted on Wade's guileful wife.
All the little details of the book added to its luster.
And the lyrical, cynical passages about L.A., about the cops, about the aging Marlowe himself are priceless.
And it's true about the book being semi-autobiographical.
The alcoholic, blocked writer Roger Wade is Chandler.
Never a prolific author, we're all glad Chandler got this one written.

It’s that essential, unwavering characteristic that allows a single character to elevate what should have been an uneven and disjointed novel.I chose to reread The Big Sleep and The Long Goodbye back-to-back because Megan Abbott cited her own experience in doing so in an introduction to Reed Farrel Coleman’s Walking the Perfect Square (Busted Flush Press, 2008).
And yet when it comes to the subject of darkness I am drawn more to Bernie Ohls, Marlowe’s only friend in The Big Sleep; the only other honest person in that book, certainly the only honest cop.
In The Long Goodbye Bernie Ohls is still fighting the fight but it’s no longer the good fight.
They parleyed like Dragnet in parts but they sure certainly didn't deal consequence the same.
Not often, but with such intensity that nearly all else became "the others".Well, I am certainly going to read Little Sister and the others I'd missed now.Whew!Last thought that I couldn't get out of my mind all throughout the last third of the book!
(More than Joanie on Mad Men and especially in power/foreman factory positions.) How they (THE WOMEN)would do the visual overload so craftily and use the sex card to climb into "better".

I didn't remember much, I never do after one reading of Chandler.
It really takes its time and unpacks Marlowe's life, and it is a good book, but lengthy.
He has three other books I have not read.
I usually don't watch a movie if I want to read the book it's adapted from, but this was an exception, as I've seen the 1973 Altman version 3 times at least.
It's irreverent and very 1973 Altman, and Elliot Gould is the best Marlowe ever.
The book was still captivating, and I didn't even picture Elliot Gould (Marlowe says he's 6 ft and 1/2 an inch, so Gould was actually too tall).
Marlowe is finally distracted from his friend's death when the publisher of a best-selling author wants to hire him to find out if his writer is being blackmailed for something from his past since he has gone on a violent drinking binge and cannot finish his latest pulp masterpiece.
Marlowe is reluctant to take this case which sounds like little more than "intervention" until the author's drop-dead, gorgeous wife gets him aside and explains that not only is her husband a violent drunk, but he has been missing for three days.
While Marlowe refuses to hear out the reason for this request, it’s revealed that the man’s wife has been murdered and it may or may not be by his new friend’s hand.With those rather shady circumstances still hazing over his head, Marlowe is approached by a publisher asking for his assistance in figuring out just what exactly is throwing their prized writer off his rocker.
He used them to express his innermost thoughts on the state of society, his frustrations as a writer and his internal struggle with whether or not he should commit suicide.It’s been said before – by myself and others – that the plot in Chandler’s Marlowe novels can almost be considered secondary to the author’s writing.
I wanted to see if there was some kind of essential structure to the mystery novel that the current writers that I like follow.
(If you are interested in seeing what these "structures" are I recommend the book Writing Mysteries, edited by Sue Grafton.) But here I want to write, not about the essential style and structure of the genre that I found in Chandler, but about a kind of philosophical underpinning that makes this book great and which I think is also found in the greatest mystery writers.
It was Chandler, in this book, that helped me to discover why I like these "literary" mystery books.
This sentence is why I decided to read my first Raymond Chandler.Chandler’s crime noir characters and images are iconic: Philip Marlowe, the embittered, enigmatic private eye; the long-limbed blonde, elegant, cunning and in need of rescue; the corrupt and brutal criminal justice system; tawdry Los Angeles, emerging from World War II to become the symbol of American excess.
(It may be helpful to know that two characters in The Long Goodbye, a drunk writer losing his touch and a war vet losing his mind, are stand-ins for the writer himself.
The prose gets darker and darker, almost ranting at points, painful and despondent about modern life, particularly in L.A. His wife, 17 years his senior, was going through terrible health problems at the time and died shortly after publication of this book.From Wikipedia:Cissy Chandler died in 1954, after a long illness.
Perhaps this mirrors Chandlers needs in real life?In chapter 13 we see a run of casual racism and misogyny in Marlowe's thoughts, and feel a certain bitterness in Chandler's prose.
Eileen Wade's car: 1953 Jaguar XK120After the scene at the Wade's, Marlowe's (Chandler's) bitterness and self-loathing are more apparent.
It was somewhat deeper, more ambitious, a little literary..., but Chandler didn't know how to get an increasingly bitter, frightened, alcoholic 62 year-old author, with great craft-skills, to continue to write a 38 year-old, hardboiled character.
It was a crisis of middle age, and the seams showed.In the Long Goodbye, Chandler solved the problem by putting the aging alcoholic self into other characters -- and that then left him free to treat Marlowe (now 42) from a more objective point of view.
And the result, though not as taut as a genre-piece, is a fine, deep, sad, piece of literature: Raymond Chandler's Long Goodbye.He died, from alcoholism, a few years later.
It’s longer than his other Philip Marlowe novels and this gives the author space to look a little deeper into his characters.Two of the characters, Terry Lennox (an alcoholic war veteran) and Roger Wade (an alcoholic author), are clearly proxies for Chandler himself.
Interestingly, (view spoiler)[Chandler chooses to kill both these characters off during the course of the book (hide spoiler)].I found this novel to be like a Marlowe novel turned up to eleven.
I’ve just found out that Chandler wrote this book as his wife was dying from a chronic illness.
-	Philip Marlowe
Chandler's unabashed masterpiece, this novel is his only work to truly transcend the pulp genre and rank as first-rate literature.
All of Chandler's books have gorgeous language and bafflingly labyrinthine plots, but this one stands out because of the author's poignant willingness to stare into his own soul.
His stalwart, incorruptible hero Marlowe is hired to guard a washed-up, alcoholic, self-loathing writer who derides his own work as trash, and it's hard not to see the troubled Raymond Chandler in that character.
This was the second-to-last Marlowe novel Chandler ever completed, and there's a forlorn air of melancholy around the whole thing.
