https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128521.No_Flying_in_the_House
Re-read for our chat!
It's posted here: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...And I highly recommend it for all little girls, and for reading with little girls.
(view spoiler)[BUT NOT IN THAT ICKY PEPTO BISMOL-PINK TUTU + CHEAP SILVER PLASTIC CROWN KIND OF WAY.
(hide spoiler)]-----------------------------If you enjoy discovering/rediscovering classic children's and YA lit, btw, do join our new little group Kindred Spirits: https://www.goodreads.com/group/show/...We did a classic readalong every month on the blog for two years, but I've moved it here to GoodReads to make things easier.
You can start your own readalongs if you like, and we'll also do occasional bookish swaps and such, too!
I must have read it almost a dozen times, each time wishing more and more than this could be MY story, that I could kiss MY elbow and fly around, that MY real parents would show up at the end, wonderful and magical, and that MY grandma was rich (actually, I think I thought my grandma was rich because she had a shower and an endless supply of those little cereal boxes).And then, somehow, I totally forgot what the title of this book was.
It was...and, amazingly, my coworker Jennifer said that it'd been HER favorite book as a girl, too!
(And, of course, sat down an re-read as soon as I got home!)It is a charming story that begins with sweet little three-year-old girl, Annabel, and her devoted guardian, Gloria (a three inch tall talking dog), who suddenly show up on Mrs. Vancourt's Terrace one morning looking for a place to stay.
Mrs. Vancourt, who has a passion for little things, only allows them to stay because she is so taken with Gloria (who assures her that she can perform three hundred and sixty-seven tricks).
Before her seventh birthday Annabel must choose between what every little girl dreams they could be and what is missing the most from her own life.
This was such a cute book!
Annabel Tippens seems like just a normal girl, but Annabel is actually quite special.
Annabel never wonders about the unique nature of her life, until one day while playing in the drawing room, she runs across a cat named Belinda who tells her, she's not just a little girl but also part fairy.
With this new knowledge, Annabel is on a quest to figure out who she is and where she comes from.
I definitely recommend this book, and look forward to sharing this gem with my own children someday.
In many ways it feels like a quiet story, not heavy on plot or messages, but draws on the desire of a little girl to have a family and to belong.
Annabel is such a cute little girl and I was pretty fond of her three inches by three inches protector Gloria.
Annabel is a darling little girl filled with curiosity and her and Gloria's friendship is quite sweet.
This would make a lovely read together or beginner chapter book for a six to eight year old child who enjoys stories with talking animals, or fairies.
I remember reading this in the third grade and absolutely loving it.
It's such a fun tale about a little girl, Annabel, discovering some unexplained magical powers and making a choice between power and family.
You can't help but love the 3-inch tall and wide dog named Gloria, who is her guardian.
I was equally entranced by the room full of small wind-up golden, bejeweled figurines.
If you'd like to be entranced by sweet children's fairy-tale that you can eat in a few bites, then this book is perfect.
This was my FAVORITE book when I was little and I've finally re-discovered it. I am so happy! It took me forever to remember the title. Actually - I never "remembered" the title - I just remembered it was about a tiny talking dog and a little girl. Google did the rest. Wow - it is amazing how the illustrations still seem so familiar - I really remember them after all these years. I recommend this for any young girls who like magically touching stories. Sweet nostalgia ...
This book is so cute and heartwarming and one of my favorites from when I was littler than I am now. :)
I would have loved this when I was a child.
I think it still has value, perhaps as a family read together, or a chapter at bedtime.
We're not given big back-stories on the characters, or long-winded descriptions of the house, grounds, clothing, foods.
We are given the essentials that point to the plot, and to the aspects of the characters that are integral to the themes.
It's just a nice story.It's not quite a four-star read, but I am sufficiently charmed to round my rating up.Btw, I love the new cover.
I read the old, which is fine because I'm old, but the new is perfectly apt.
Unlike most children's book characters, Annabel is polite, kind and an intriguing child living in a house where her best friend and guardian is a little white dog named Gloria.
When the secret about Annabel's family and origins is finally discovered, the friendship between her and Gloria is put to the test and she has to decide which is more important.This lovely little book is one that every child should get the chance to read at least once.
This 20th century fairy tale is both fun and exciting and despite being almost fifty years old, it's stood the test of time with its originality.
I was not expecting to love this as much as I did! I borrowed it from the library to read to my daughter. She loved it and so did I. It was such a cute story and if I'm being honest, I had to choke back tears while reading aloud to her for the last two chapters. This is a favorite!
That was . . . very odd and very different. Not particularly bad, but rather strange. It almost felt like a modern-day fairy tale. I did find the title a bit of a misnomer, as it gave me a very different impression of the book I was about to be reading. Not bad - but definitely wouldn't read it again.
It tells the story of Annabel Tippens - who seems like an ordinary girl, except for her tiny talking dog Gloria who has looked after her since she was a baby.
And she may be able to fly!Filled with love, adventure, and all the wonderful things that magical stories are made of this is a cute story of a six-year-old girl whose life changes in a mere instant when she learns who she is.
I found this book through a group on goodreads called Kindred Spirits - a group devoted to discovering and rediscovering middle-grade and young adult classics.
Looking forward to reading more classic books in the future!!
So the concept of half-mortal, half fairy girl who can fly (or at least levitate) was nothing new by the time this book was first published in 1970.
The author is American, though she tries and nearly manages to inject a quasi-british feel into Annabel's "poor little orphan taken in by rich woman" life, with Miss Peach the housekeeper, the cook, and the nursery, as well as Gloria the dog's request for "warm fires and fresh flowers." The American thing resurfaces when we discover that Annabel must make a choice, whether to be a fairy or a mortal, once and for all--rather like the children of US citizens married to other nationals.
Got a little girl who loves fairies? Then she will love this story of Annabelle (who discovers she is a fairy), Gloria, the 3 inch high talking dog with a BIG secret, and an evil gold cat (with real emerald eyes) who has a secret of her own. Wonderful as a read aloud or for slightly older girls to read by themselves.This book is not well known--and it should be, because it's been a favorite of little girls for decades!
Love it from start to finish
I LOVED LOVED LOVED this book as a little girl and could not remember the name...thank you so much, Goodreads! :)
Adorable. Came highly recommended my my sister-in-law. Would be a fun read aloud for younger kids.
My 7 year old daughter enjoyed it. I would have given it three and a half stars but rounded up to account for her opinion. :-)
This was my all time favorite book as a child. I was tickled to see it pop up in Goodreads recommendations for fantasy. Great read for young readers
This was a great read-aloud for my 5-year-old daughter. Very Diana Wynne Jones, which was a nice surprise, as she's not quite ready for Crestomanci yet.
Despite Brock publishing No Flying in the House in 1970, the year I was born, I'd never heard of the book till now.
Our 5-year-old daughter Sigourney absolutely loved it!
Belinda the bad fairy turned golden cat with emerald eyes adds plenty of fun (and rage!), too.
Really, the story's a can't miss.
What young girl isn't intrigued by the idea of being half-fairy, flying, with a beautiful fairy princess as a mom?
Brock leaves a number of details to the reader's imagination.
The unrevealed elements add to the charm of the story.
Have fun!
Betty Brock’s “The Shades” is one of my favorite little ‘lost’ children’s books.
I say ‘lost’ because no one seems to remember it.
Anyway, I went trolling for other books by Brock and discovered all the great reviews for her book “No Flying in the House.” I’ve just finished it.
It’s a fantasy – yes, there is flying in the house.
One of her parents is a faerie and the child must choose to be either or, no in between.
I guess the author chose the ending she felt most appropriate, but I would have liked for this wise child to have at least asked the question: why can’t I be both?
Annabel appears to be an orphan living with Mrs. Vancourt with her teeny-weeny dog, Gloria.
Gloria can dance and talk and actually takes pretty good care of Annabel.
But then Annabel talks to a cat figurine and finds out she's part fairy, and though she's enjoying the new experiences her revelation brings her (including flying!), she also finds out that her parents can only be brought back if she makes a sacrifice.I enjoy silly books about children affected by magic, but this book put me off because of its dependence on the dichotomy between fairy and mortal; Annabel has to choose which one to be, and it's basically all or nothing.
The "proper" moral ending is the one that gets pushed on her by the story, and it read as preachy to me.
I can say with certainty that this is one of the two books responsible for my love of reading.
My mom used to read this out loud to me chapter by chapter each night before bed and every time we finished I would immediately request we start right back at the beginning.
Recently while babysitting a little girl I learned to my delight that her first grade teacher was reading it to all of them, so I hope it remains the children's classic it deserves to be.
Magical story, charming writing, relatable and fantastical characters— perfect for a kid just learning that in books anything is possible.
Annabelle doesn't know her parents. Gloria, her little white dog that is only three inches tall, claims that her parents will one day come back for her. Even Miss Peach, the housekeeper, is starting to doubt that her parents will come back for her. Everything changes one day when Annabelle meets a gold cat with emerald eyes.Reasons I like this book-Reason 1- I could not stop reading.Reason 2- I could imagine what was happening.Reason 3- It made me wonder, do faries exist?
This book was given to me by my third grade teacher, and I loved it. For the longest time I couldn't remember what it was called, just a few fuzzy details like the talking dog and the cabinet of miniature animals. But I finally tracked it down and my husband got it for me for my birthday this year! I immediately re-read it, and it was even better than I had remembered it the first time. A fantastic story, and a book I'm really happy to have again!
The only thing unusual about Annabel is that she is has no parents and is being raised by a stern older woman and a talking dog named Gloria. Or so Annabel thinks. Then a mysterious visitor to the mansion lets slip the secret to her past--Annabel is half fairy and she can kiss her elbow to prove it. Once the secret is out, there is magic and secrets to uncover as Annabel learns not all fairies are good and she must make some difficult decisions.
I read this book out loud to my 9 year old daughter. I thought she would enjoy it, but I was surprised to find that I liked it too. It reminded me a little bit of Harry Potter but for a slightly younger audience.
This has been one of my favourite childhood books! I have read it at leatst 15times
