https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/494103.Murder_Down_Under
Very clever interweaving of two mysteries: who is responsible for the disappearance of farmer Loftus, and ... what is mr. Jelly's business? - with a stunning denouement in the very last sentences. Dialogues and descriptions very funny at times, too. Very well read (by unmentioned reader) on Youtube - guess this is what upper-class Australian English sounds like - there are two more of the series. I will definitely read/listen to more of Arthur Upfield.
I got a bit fed up of hearing that Bony was so good at his job because he'd inherited characteristics from his aborginal mother to add to those inherited from his white father and how this blend made him superior to everyone.
I guess the author was making a point and was perhaps brave to do so but I got a bit tired of the repetition.The main mystery in this book happens when Bony is on holiday and he decides to investigate the mysterious disappearance of a farmer.
I picked this up years ago at a used book sale and just had real trouble getting around to reading it.
I kept missing my stop, too.I believe I will be looking for the others in this series.Napoleon "Bony" Bonaparte is half-caste (half aboriginal and half white) and an Inspector for the Queensland police.
So he goes undercover for the Rabbit Fence people.
They know who and what he is but no one else is supposed to.This book has also been published under the name "Mr. Jelly's Business".
I want to read more in this series.
This is a marvelously atmospheric tale of life in rural Australia is the 1930's. There are two separate but intertwined mysteries for Bony to solve in his inimitable style.Farmer George Loftus has gone missing. Is he dead or has he done a bunk? Another farmer, Mr Jelly, periodically disappears also but always comes back a few days later refusing to tell anyone where he has been.Despite his daft name Napoleon Bonaparte, is a great character and greatly underrated in my opinion. The way Upfield describes the minutiae of Bony' s detecting process is brilliant.Highly recommended.
The weakness some may perceive is that Upfield has a 30s white guy understanding of racial questions, and some dubious racial ideas crop up in the narration, even though the author's heart is clearly in the right place.
The other weakness are the "mysteries" themselves, which are vaguely disappointing, even though the solution of the secondary mystery is postponed, rather brilliantly, to the last line of the book.The story is told in a fairly leisurely fashion until the final confrontation between villain and detective, which is very suspenseful.
Definitely worth a read, and I am going to hunt down other books by this author, who was unknown to me.
In spite of awarding only three stars, I enjoyed this book.
With that, we get a glimpse of the racism that was prevalent at the time, but also that the settlers are more tolerant than we might expect.
This was written about the time of some of the Agatha Christie's I've read recently.
I think Upfield is a better writer; that is, his prose is more complex and interesting.
Christie provides a better mystery, no doubt about it in my mind.
That they each have at least one advantage over the other means I'll probably keep reading both.
Two parallel mysteries that Bony is convinced are related--Mr Loftus' disappearance into thin air a few hundred yards from his home, and Mr Jelly's periodic disappearances for days at a time from his home, only to return and shut himself up for several days in his study.
Mr Jelly is convinced that he can tell a murderer just by looking at them--or feeling their heads.
is down to environment, but murder is inborn--nature versus nurture, and no room left for free will or self-control!Chasing down the killer reminded me of The Petrified Forest.
I love this author's 1930s Australian settings, his main character Bony the detective, the gentle humour, the clever plotting and his easy-to-read, laconic writing style.
Upfield was almost a forgotten author until he was rediscovered and his books reprinted.
Clues, red herrings, likeable and not-so-likeable characters and a keen sense of place all make for a suspenseful story.
Being written in 1937 it reflects the prevailing attitudes and language in regard to Aborigines and women, but as long as you are aware of this, the story is a slow-paced mystery that is a joy to read.
George Loftus wrecked his car a couple miles from home and vanished.Mr. Jelly gets a telegram and leaves town without telling his daughters he is going.
When he gets back, he shuts himself up in his room speaking and seeing no one for days.Detective Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte is on leave when he is told about the disappearance.
Then he meets Sunflower Jelly and promises to solve the mystery of her father.Did Loftus vanish voluntarily or was he murdered?
Where is the body?Why is Mr. Jelly fascinated by the executions of murderers?Even though the culprits and reason are guessable, the story keeps the reader enthralled.
Burracoppin's a town near the rabbit-proof fence in Western Australia, a town that holds secrets. Bony does a swap with his pal John Muir for the chance of a mystery to suit his talents while on holiday. Mr Jelly disappears and reappears mysteriously during the hours of darkness. What's he up to? Resourceful Bony seems to have met his match, will he be able to solve this, perhaps his greatest case?
I always enjoy listening to these mysteries.
I’m not sure whether this one was a bit harder to follow than usual, or whether I was just doing more tasks that involved a bit more brain input than usual when listening to it, but I found this one a bit more difficult to follow than some of the others.It is interesting that this fourth book in the series has had two titles and both seem strange choices.
Mr Jelly’s Business is what the audiobook I listened to was called, and there was a mystery about Mr Jelly, however that was not what occupied the majority of Det Insp Napoleon “Bony” Bonaparte’s time.
What brought Arthur Upfield to my attention, I can't even remember, but having just finished Murder Down Under, I'm glad that whatever it was did.
Upfied was born in Great Britain but moved to Australia at the age of 20 where luckily, his curiosity about his new home heavily influenced the series of crime fiction books he was about to write.
Murder Down Under was first released in 1937, giving the reader thus a fascinating look into life in rural Western Australia during the Great Depression, including undercurrents of the racial misconceptions which still reverberate today.
I highly recommend this novel to lovers of crime fiction or anyone who is interested in a view back through history.
"Into this hall from the town and the outlying farms had come good-looking women and strong, well-set-up men, an A-1 standard of physique rarely seen in the older countries and the Australian cities.
From the farm districts and from the vast bushlands beyond had emerged in 1914 that Australian army whose physical perfection had aroused the admiration of Europe....At the door people separated as though governed by established convention, women occupying the long forms set against one wall and the men taking their seats against the opposite wall.
Since I am a big fan of multicultural as well as historical mysteries, several years ago my sister-in-law introduced me to this series, which is set in 1930's Australia.
Of half-French, half-aboriginal ancestry, Bony solves his cases using keen intelligence coupled with his innate tracking and other abilities.
These books are simply a delight, and in this one, Bony is engaged to solve a murder of a farmer in western Australia when he discovers another man's strange and frequent disappearances.
This is a well-plotted mystery, and the ending will leave the reader surprised.
Also published as Murder Down Under; #4 in the Napoleon Bonaparte series set in the Australian outback.
I can honestly highly recommend Mr. Jelly's Business to anyone who a)enjoys a good mystery or b) enjoys reading books set in Australia.
As I've noted in previous reviews, you do have to be careful not to judge the book by today's standards, especially when it comes to attitude.
Enter Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte, who is technically not on duty at the time.
Taking the guise as a worker on the Rabbit Fence, Bony snoops around unobtrusively to get to the heart of the mystery.A very fun and very good book.
Bony takes on the case of George Loftus' disappearance as a favour to a friend, and gets a job working on the Rabbit Proof Fence so he can keep the locals under observation and work out what has happened to Loftus.
He gets telegrams that summon him to Perth for at least a week at a time.
Given his personal hobby that involves keeping extensive files on murderers, Mr Jelly's daughters are convinced that his job must be something to be ashamed of.
Bony promises Mr Jelly's daughters that he will find out what their father does during his absences.This novel is filled with Upfield's own philosophy about what creates murderers.
While the "who" & "why" were a little too easy, everything else about this book was intriguing--the unusual "how"; the original detective and the issues of race that Upfield broaches; the detailed prose, especially when the setting is described in beautiful and minute detail; and the plotting.
Oh, the plotting!--the novel is fast-paced while the detective also manages to take his time (and emphasizes this to the other characters).
When the recon missions are underway to the suspects' house, the taut suspense make it impossible to put the book down.
With the final paragraph, the reader leaves the book on both a satisfied and exhilarated note.
Actually I'm reading The Bachelors of Broken HIll by this author which I plan to finish before I leave for Australia in a couple of days...
In preparation I'm reading a quaint mystery written about 1950, titled 'The Bachelors of Broken Hill'.
It is part of a series by Arthur Upfield and features a half-aborigine detective named Napoleon Bonaparte.
The back cover features a blurb from the 'Times Literary Supplement' that I find irresistible "Arthur Upfield has an extraordinary gift.
In many of the most elementary ways, he writes badly; and yet somehow in all his long series of books he conjures up , more vividly perhaps than any other popular writer, the feel of the Australian outback....."
I read this about three years ago and just started re-reading it.
I think it's one of Australian author Upfield's best (though I've read and enjoyed most of his books).
Detective Inspector 'Bony' brings his considerable intellectual gifts, humor and human insights, as well as his native tracking skills to bear on murder near the Rabbit Fence in the Australian Outback.
Its set some fifty years ago and modern readers may cringe at the unflinchingly depicted racism, but Bony deals with it (and with his own inner conflicts) with unfailing good charm and modest self-assurance
Upfield is a master at detective novels! And what a likeable, capable character he has in Napoleon Bonepart, "Bony"! He allows the plot to unfold through the actions, lives, relationships and conversations of the characters all the while incorporating Australian First People's culture and ideas. Thoroughly delightful despite the early 20th century prejudice against women and aboriginal people, which the editor warns is not the belief of the publisher, but prevalent at the time of the writing.
This has been my favorite "Bony" mystery so far.Still incredibly unbelievably racist but complicated and interesting, just be warned you may not be able to stomach it when Bony starts pondering his own potential reversion to a "savage state", which he usually ponders when he faces possible failure -- ie if he doesn't solve a case then he will lose everything about his middle class family life, university education, etc. and have to go live in the bush. So, that is an interesting conflict but the overblown way it is described is kind of disturbing.
I love the Arthur Upfield Inspector Napoleon Bonaparte mysteries, mainly because of the setting in Australia and the portrayal of a half-cast white/aboriginal inspector. The mysteries are good, but I think this is one of the best in the series. You don't find out what IS Mr. Jelly's business until the last paragraph. Peter Hosking does a fine job with the voices and accents in the audiobook recordings by Bolinda Audio.
Upfield's writing is lovely and descriptive. It made me long once again to return to Australia's rugged beauty. While not as thrilling as many more recently written mystery stories, it made for a good puzzle. I loved the character of Detective Inspector Bonaparte, and I think if he'd been a real person we might have been good friends. My only real complaints were that the pace seemed a little slow at times, and the very ending was slightly ambiguous. Over all, a very entertaining read.
This is the first "Bony" mystery I've read. It took me a bit of time to get into it. But I was drawn in to the young girls Sunflower and Lisa Jelly, and the mystery of their father's disappearances. Now I am even more curious about Australia. For instance, the significance of the Rabbit Fence. I will definitely try to find more of these mysteries. The main character--"half-caste" is fascinating. Quite a gentleman, he deals with society's racism deftly.
I was disappointed by the ending but I find that often happens with mystery novels. I found this very well crafted for the most part and it is revealing of the colonial mindset of the time. It lacks in political correctness, which would in fact only serve to mask the genuine feelings of some of the characters. Relationships are fairly well developed and it gives a glimpse into rural life in Western Australia just before the second world war.
Bony is a great character. He is a combination of Poirot, Marple and Dundee. I felt like the story was moving a little slow, but I am going to reserve judgement on that because I stopped reading just before the final third due to medical reasons which could be influencing the situation. Looking forward to trying some other Bony books.
Bony is on holiday in Perth and offers to look into the disappearance of a farmer just outside the small wheatbelt town of Burracoppin. Despite the absence of a body, Bony is certain that the man has been murdered, but clues are few and far between and patience is required to build the case and find the body. And will Mr Jelly's secret business prove to have anything to do with the case?
Though the story is engaging, the ending is one that I believe most people would guess in advance. But that is of no matter to me as I don't read these stories so much for the plot as I do for the characters and, most especially, the strong sense of place. On that point, the book is worth five stars. Additionally, the narrator is quite good.
I just picked this one of Upfield's books so I could pick one! I have read a few and they were all fascinating. I first picked them up in Australia and have been seeking them out since. A detective who is half aborigine and half white during highly prejudiced times is a real "hook" and the mystery and the Australia setting just add to the pleasure.
Quite a nice little mystery written in the 1930s featuring the Boney the aboriginal detective. It means well but is sometimes painfully dated in its outlook. Overall it comes together nicely enough though perhaps does not tantalise long enough with a mystery.
