https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/916914.The_Letter_of_Marque
While Captain Jack Aubrey is the heart-and-soul main character of the series, he shares the stage with his unlikely friend Dr. Stephen Maturin, the brain and introspection of these books.
In The Letter of Marque Maturin takes center stage.
He spends much of this book trying to get his back, specifically going to daring and dangerous lengths to get himself reinstated on the Navy List after a stock market swindle lands him in a terrible predicament.
Still in all, Jack Aubrey's personal victories and Stephen's struggle are engaging enough to keep The Letter of Marque well afloat!
“I have often observed that extremely violent noise and activity go with good-fellowship and heightened spirits.” ― Patrick O'Brian, The Letter of MarqueCaptain Aubrey has been kicked out of the Navy based on some financial speculation that he was involved in.
Aubrey engages in several battles at sea and is able "right" his fortune and perhaps even his name.
There is a scene at the end when Dr. Maturin is under the spell of a large dose of Laudanum that while interesting is a bit weak (he dreams of balloons, and Diana).
This was a wonderful conclusion to  The Reverse of the Medal . As Stephen notes at one stage in the book, Aristotle's definition of tragedy encompassed not only a great man being brought down but also the redemption and deliverance of a man who had been laid low. If that's true, then this book, in company with the last, forms a truly great example of the same. From the nadir of fortune that both Jack and Stephen experience in TRotM, LoM sees a complete reversal. Jack is more successful than he's
. As Stephen notes at one stage in the book, Aristotle's definition of tragedy encompassed not only a great man being brought down but also the redemption and deliverance of a man who had been laid low.
Jack is more successful than he's ever been, Stephen has Diana restored to him, and the book ends on one of the happiest and most contained notes that I think I've ever seen in an O' Brian novel.The period sense was, as ever, perfect.
O' Brian is so good at using dialogue to show just how close a friendship Stephen and Jack have, just how much they mean to one another.
In the case of the Aubrey/Maturin series, the uniformity of their excellence in terms of writing, their largely character-driven, relatively shapeless novelistic plotting compared poorly, I thought, to the more intricate, complex and subtle mechanisms of Dorothy Dunnett.
Stephen Maturin has purchased The Surprise, however, and with the titular letter and a crew half of old naval hands and half of doughty pirates, they set out to restore Jack's fortunes.
In Vol.XI of Robert's Adventures in Napoleonic Naval Literature, the protagonist found himself wearied and despondant, wondering whether it was "worth it" to go on. THIS REVIEW HAS BEEN CURTAILED IN PROTEST AT GOODREADS' CENSORSHIP POLICYSee the complete review here:http://arbieroo.booklikes.com/post/33...

I loved the journeys that both Jack and Stephen made in this.
Jack starts out in the depths of depression when his career has been wrecked on the reef of a scandal not of his own making (well, not entirely), and Stephen is suffering from a marital melancholy which he's medicating with laudanum and coca leaves.
I love Sophy's faithfulness to Jack - her "good Navy wife" cheer - and looked forward to the domestic scenes with his kids and crabby mother-in-law.
Both Jack and Stephen face down their personal demons.
In Jack's case, his susceptibility to land sharks has caused him to get involved in a scam that ultimately gets him stripped of his Navy commission.
Fortunately, he is not called "Lucky Jack Aubrey" for nothing.
Also, he is in command of a privateer full of eager and able seamen.For Stephen, it's his long-term opium habit.
Never in life.) When his self-medication finally gets him into big trouble, a brother physician prohibits the use of opium.
Steve Maturin's estranged wife.
Both these characters turn over another leaf in this glorious tale of the continuing Aubrey/Maturin saga.
Captain Jack Aubrey has been struck off the naval list because of enemy agents framing him for a stock exchange crime he did not commit.
Many know he has been framed and the enemy agents guilty of the entrapment have fled the country.
Aubrey is presented with HMS Surprise, which Steven Maturin has bought out of his inheritance.
Therefore, Jack Aubrey is sailing the ship as a Letter of Marque - a privateer.
The usual, brightly colored Aubrey and Maturin high-seas fun, leaven with the sobering hash each makes of his health and personal life. They have the whole world helping them into their personal infernos, but the fault lies not in their stars but in themselves. Friends and family--and each other--bear them through as usual on a freshening breeze and the promise of yet greater adventures.
Well, I love e'm all, but this is one of my faves! This is the 10th Aubrey & Maturin I've re-read this year - something's had to soothe my savage breast following the Brexit vote and I can't take up smoking again - been off the evil weed for 35 years!
It’s an excellent mixture of naval action and developments ashore, with O’Brian’s study of an addictive personality especially well done, I think.Patrick O'Brian is steeped in the period of the early 19th Century and his knowledge of the language, manners, politics, social mores and naval matters of the time is deep and wide.
O'Brian's handling of language is masterly, with the dialogue being especially brilliant, but also things like the way his sentences become shorter and more staccato in the action passages, making them heart-poundingly exciting.
There’s still a lingering bitterness that comes from being an outsider to his beloved service — initially, this is described as a certain ‘sealing off…[that] had turned him into a eunuch as far as emotion was concerned.’ (It’s a fairly startling image; apart from anything else it is not altogether clear what a potent male model of emotion in O’Brian’s work would look like.) But since his victories bring sudden popular acclaim, his upset soon seems like more of an inconvenience than a threat.
After being falsely accused and convicted of a complicated investment scheme, Jack Aubrey has been cast out of the service.
In hopes of moderating his misery, his particular friend Stephen Maturin buys the Surprise and secures a letter of marque for the ship.
Aubrey can captain the Surprise once more, but this time as a privateer.
Stephen, meanwhile, finally meets face-to-face with Diana once more.Everything about this book was beautiful and perfect and much-longed for.
The only flaw was that the voice the narrator gives Diana Villiers is cloying and fake, and it nearly ruined my enjoyment of her scenes with Stephen.
Sheer delight. While I defer in advance to any feminist or intersectional analysis from Wealhtheow whenever she gets around to this one, I enjoyed it perhaps more than anything in the series since H.M.S. Surprise. (view spoiler)[It helps that both Jack and Stephen have such happy outcomes to their adventures after a long stretch of troubles, but what are long series for if not, in part, the odd volume of wish-fulfillment? (hide spoiler)]
Patrick O'Brian was hitting on all cylinders here.
The Aubrey-Maturin saga continues to gain depth as a remarkable piece of fictional biography, combining naval history, music, natural history, soap opera, politics, humor and rousing adventure.
After subjecting his characters to terrible difficulties in The Reverse of the Medal, the present book offers a rather more upbeat story.Some of this I read, and some I listened to Patrick Tull's wonderful reading.
For me, the humor comes through more strongly in the audiobook, with Tull's droll characterizations as a good vehicle for O'Brian's dry and understated ironic wit.This was a hugely enjoyable page-turner.
I've been listening to the Aubrey/Maturin series during my commute to and from work and while painting kitchen cabinets.
I love their language and the humor, which is so understated you have to be prepared for it.
These characters are so honorable and loyal to each other and their status in life that you can't help but admire them as they go through these adventures.
The first book, Master and Commander was a movie with Russel Crowe and it is a great start to see if you will like this series.
Full of English Navel history, you can't help but learn something at the same time.
I can't say enough how much I really enjoy listening to these Aubry/Maturin sea stories. The seamen and ships and stories of the battles are fascinating and the characters so well written. This story, back in the Surprise was no exception. A different Jack Aubrey, now out of the service, but a compelling sea voyage and prizes for all at the end. I am happy to leave them until - next time.
I listened to the audio book read by Patrick Tull. He does a fantastic job bringing the charactors alive. I am totally hooked on this series now.
O'Brian is brilliant at making me think one thing is going to happen, and then have something completely different happen instead.

After the despair of the last volume, this 'second half' is about the redemption of our two heroes.
These 20 volumes really are a fine set of novels of character development and interaction as well as a wonderful education about England at home and abroad during the early 19thC.You do not have to be a fan of war or naval adventures to appreciate this fine achievement.
His old friend Stephen Maturin, usually cast as a ship's surgeon to mask his discreet activities on behalf of British Intelligence, has bought for Aubrey his former ship the Surprise to command as a privateer, more politely termed a letter of marque.
If had to summarize this book in one word it would be cathartic.
Coming off the Reverse of the Medal and the turmoil that Jack finds himself in, the Letter of Marque lets us readers off the hook for a moment.
In fact, outside of the sinking of the Waakzaamheid in Desolation Island and Jack's time in the stocks in Reverse of the Medal, no scene in the series stands out to me as much as one does in this entry.
This series is phenomenal and Patrick Tull (audio book narrator) is, as always, a master of his trade.
Patrick O'Brian is an author I enjoy, and this is the second time for me to read all his books. I particularly enjoy his tales of the tall ships, and The Letter of Marque had two superb battles. What I enjoy most about this author's writings is the development of his characters, who become—at least for me—interesting people who have their own trials and tribulations, just like all the people I know. They are the factors that keep me reading O'Brian's books. I thoroughly enjoyed this book—again.
I'm still listening to Aubrey–Maturin series. Actually, I just finished #12, "The Letter of Marque" and as usual, I gave it five stars. I'm really enjoying these books because a part of me has a hidden life that I'm not aware of, by having sea legs and wants to sail the ocean. Besides the super writing from the author, I'm more amaze at listening to the reader. So far I've listened to 170 hours of Patrick Tull's performance. He has become that neighbor that sits on his porch and telling stories
​I'm still listening to Aubrey–Maturin series.
Actually, I just finished #12, "The Letter of Marque" and as usual, I gave it five stars.
I'm really enjoying these books because a part of me has a hidden life that I'm not aware of, by having sea legs and wants to sail the ocean.
Besides the super writing from the author, I'm more amaze at listening to the reader.
So far I've listened to 170 hours of Patrick Tull's performance.
He has become that neighbor that sits on his porch and telling stories of his time in the Navy.
One of the best books in the series...so far. After some rough moments over the last few books, it is feels good to see the characters one becomes so attached to and familiar with have things looking up. One of the great strengths of these books is that Aubrey and Maturin become part of our own circle, in a sense, in a way that few other literary characters have a chance to.Looking forward to the rest of the series.
Another great book - #12 of the superb Aubrey-Maturin series. There are 20 books of this series - the adventures of Captain jack Aubrey and his friend , the surgeon Stephen Maturin. Set in the British Navy of the early 1800's, each book is full of action and wit and a delight to read. The Russell Crowe movie, Master and Commander, is based on parts of these books. At one point, I thought I should ration these books so the pleasure lasts longer but then quickly decided against it.
O’Brian does it again! By this point returning to the Aubrey/Maturin series is like visiting dear old friends. Truly the best of historical fiction that is equal parts rousing action and thoughtful observations about the characters and the times they are living through.After having put our heroes through the grinder for the past couple of books O’Brian allows them some sunshine in a satisfying tale of adversity and resilience.A very good read!
Several hanging plot issues with both Jack and Stephen's integrity on the line come to resolution. Just when you think the plot options have been exhausted, Patrick O'Brian has come up with some new twists. Jack and Stephen seem to be at the top of their professional skills, but still have some room for improvement on their interaction with men and women in civilian life.
"By God, sir," said Babbingon, "this matches the Cacafuego. You could not have succeeded more fully. But I do hope that you have not paid too high.""No, no, the Doctor himself says it is quite trifling.""Well, if he calls that trifling," said Babbington, nodding at the slung arm and heavily bandaged leg and the waxen face, "God help us if he ever tells us we are seriously hurt."
