https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/402128.Old_Possum_s_Book_of_Practical_Cats
To My New Feline FriendI know an Abyssinianher name in French is SilicateThe rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
Someone should set this to music.
A CAT’S A CAT!Before a Cat will condescendTo treat you as a trusted friend, Some little token of esteemIs needed, like a dish of cream;And you might now and then supplySome caviare, or Strassburg Pie,Some potted grouse, or salmon paste - He’s sure to have his personal taste.A Cat’s entitled to expectThese evidences of respect.
If you're a cat-lover (as I am), then this is a must-read for you! This is a charming book written in verse, and each chapter is dedicated to a different kind of cat with its own kind of personality. This just goes to show how many personalities a cat can really have and I loved it :)
Reminiscent of A.A. Milne's poetry, with fun imagery helped along by Edward Gorey's illustrations.i tried to prolong each page, only letting myself read one cat a day. Poor Tim, my love, i torture you with all my silly rhymes...He's patient, though it has to stop, we've lived through harder times.odd rules of friending a cat"don't speak til spoken to"quite unpredictable at thatthis book i'm thumbing throughdear Eliot, i love your rhymesin couplets or in sequence.there's much i learneach page i turn,you've won my cat's allegiance.***(so sorry)
Reto 10: Libro con un gato en la portada.En verso juguetón , irónico, fantasioso, paródico e ingenioso T.S. Eliot traza una descripción de felinos disque domésticos.
Y , sin duda, que le debe ahora el ser mucho más conocido al musical de Lloyd Weber.
Pero, sea como sea, arranca reconocimiento a cualquier conocedor de gatos -amante o no de estos - y una sonrisa.
A algunos les causó extrañeza que Eliot, censurado por algunos poemas, escribiese algo para niños, pero , claro, un gato tiene más de un nombre.
خب این جذاب ترین کتاب غیرجدی از یه نویسندۀ جدی بود.
کلی شخصیت داده بود به گربه ها که همه شون قابل تصور بودن.
و از همین جا هزاران بوس به کادودهنده ش.من ترجمه فارسیش رو دارم به اسم «گربه های اهل عمل» از جواد دانشآرا، نشر نیلوفر.
به غایت ترجمه بد و مزخرفیه.
شانس آوردم دوزبانه بود و انگلیسیش رو خوندم فقط.
:)) اگه می خوای شعر وزن و قافیه داشته باشه، حداقل وزن و قافیه بلد باش.
بعد حداقل کلمه هات یه کم هماهنگی داشته باشن.
شما این رو به عنوان نمونه ببینید: so for old Gumbie cat let us now give three che
شما این رو به عنوان نمونه ببینید: so for old Gumbie cat let us now give three cheers-On whom well-ordered households depends, it appears.پس سه هورا برای او بکشیم گربه گامبی پیر هر که که هستچون همه خانه‌زندگانی ما به وجود شریف او بسته ستزبان به شدت ثقیلی داره ترجمه ش و از کلماتی استفاده کرده که اصلا تو روزمره به کار نمی بریم.
ولی آدم بزرگش هم نمی فهمه ترجمه فارسیش چی می گه.
اما به این توجه نمی کنه که الیوت به آوای کلمه و وزنی که با این کار می سازه، هم اهمیت می ده.
Something in my imagination has been restless.
I have craved world building, esoteric codes, political machinations, something to offset the Bob Corkers of my mind.
Treading along in endless bureaucracy with handymen and adjusters, I long for the Epic.
My wife and I have been rewatching every episode of Game of Thrones for the last two weeks or so.
I am enjoying it much more when the narrative is compacted.
I read a story by Scott Lynch last week and I really liked it.
What does it lack?
It lacks the sparkle of the Book of Practical Cats.
Adorei este livro.Mas, se não gostasse de poesia nem de gatos, de certeza que, mesmo assim, adoraria este livro.Durante cerca de meia hora, pespegou-se-me um sorriso nos lábios que, periodicamente, desaparecia para ser trocado por uma gargalhada...Quer os poemas, quer as ilustrações são lindos e divertidos e, embora T.
S. Eliot os tivesse escrito para crianças, qualquer adulto se enternecerá com eles.Um livro que recomendo a quem gosta de gatos e não só..."Há neste livro Gatos tão diversosQue tenho, agora, esta opinião:Quem já o leu ficou habilitadoA entender-lhes formas e feitios.O que já sabem chega para verQue semelhantes são, Gatos e nósE outras pessoas, afinal dotadasDe maneiras diferentes de pensar.Há uns que são loucos, outros com juízoHá uns que são bons e outros ruinsAlguns são melhores e outros nem isso -Mas de todos se fez um retrato em verso."

ديوان لطيف جدا :D..لمحبي القطط
I had always thought of T.S. Eliot as a difficult and gloomy poet, so these poems were a revelation! Such light-hearted fun which really benefits from being read aloud & the Edward Gorey illustrations were marvelous too.
True I knew it was from T S Eliot and that it was written for his younger family member but beyond that it was limited to the hype around the stage show and that was about it.However once you start digging in to it you see so many more connections.
Now how many stories for younger family members can claim that sort of heritage.
Absolutely light-hearted and charming! I think I loved it so much because I could sing along to MaCavity and Rum Tum Tugger as often as I wished; I just didn't turn the page! These cats will give joy to so many for generations. All ages can smile at these rambunctious antics.
Roberto Senesi ha fatto un miracolo, con la sua traduzione!(In originale è stupendo, in italiano è incredibile!)
Najbolja knjiga ikada!The Naming of Cats is a difficult matter, It isn't just one of your holiday ga
This book was on my Recommendations book shelf, I hope because I'm a huge fan of Edward Gorey, not a crazy cat lady.
Unfortunately for me, my library didn't have the edition that Gorey illustrated.
Actually, the illustrations were the only thing I enjoyed about the book.
I felt like Eliot was trying too hard to be clever with the names and none of them worked for me.
They have names like Jennyanydots (stupid) and Growltiger (duh) and Mungojerrie (doesn't really roll off the tongue).
And finally, I learned after reading this book, that it was the inspiration for "Cats." 'nough said.
Encontré el libro hace muy poco y no lo pensé dos veces, ya se me había escapado en una ocasión y no planeaba que me sucediera otra vez.
Se trata de una hermosa colección de poemas sobre gatos con personalidades muy peculiares.
Cada texto está acompañado por el lóbrego arte de Edward Gorey, y este fue el empuje que más me impulsó a comprar este libro, ya que es uno de mis artistas favoritos.
Y por supuesto, siendo yo una cat lover sentí que no podía perdérmelo.
Realmente lo disfruté muchísimo, es un libro muy puro y dulce, y me han encantado todos los poemas al punto de no poder elegir un favorito.
[Just like a BUMbersticker:]Like this Review if you like cats but hate Cats (and can tell the dIFFérance).the ReVue:T.S. Elliot poetry about cats.Edward Gorey drawings about cats.Cats doing what cats do.A winning trilogy of characters, that.
I read this years ago before I saw the musical "Cats". The book is charming and funny, and really captures the personalities of the cats. It's a wonderful little book!
Macavity - The Mystery Cat Macavity's a Mystery Cat: he's called the Hidden Paw--For he's the master criminal who can defy the Law.He's the bafflement of Scotland Yard, the Flying Squad's despair:For when they reach the scene of crime--Macavity's not there!Macavity, Macavity, there's no on like Macavity,He's broken every human law, he breaks the law of gravity.His powers of levitation would make a fakir stare,And when you reach the scene of crime--Macavity's not there!You may seek him in the basement, you may look up in the air--But I tell you once and once again, Macavity's not there!Macavity's a ginger cat, he's very tall and thin;You would know him if you saw him, for his eyes are sunken in.His brow is deeply lined with thought, his head is highly doomed;His coat is dusty from neglect, his whiskers are uncombed.He sways his head from side to side, with movements like a snake;And when you think he's half asleep, he's always wide awake.Macavity, Macavity, there's no one like Macavity,For he's a fiend in feline shape, a monster of depravity.You may meet him in a by-street, you may see him in the square--But when a crime's discovered, then Macavity's not there!He's outwardly respectable.
Looking at the reviews of this book, I'm slightly ashamed to say that the only reason I read this collection of poetry was because of a musical.
I am an Andrew Lloyd Webber junkie.
That being said, Andrew Lloyd Webber is also responsible for some of the books that are on my to-read list - this being one of them.
I'm not much of a cat person, but the cats in this book (and in the musical) are so adorable and fleshed-out.
Would recommend to anyone looking for some light reading, fun poetry, or cat-lovers in general.
Also, for Andrew Lloyd Webber junkies like myself.
Schrödinger's catSchrödinger's cat's a mystery cat, he illustrates the laws; The complicated things 
Познавам хора, които не харесват особено Т. С. Елиът, познавам и хора, които не си падат по котки... Но не мога да си представя кой не би се прехласнал по "Популярна книга за Котките от Стария опосум"! А двама човека, които са се прехласнали по нея и то не на шега са Стефан Радев и Иван Брегов. Именно те се заемат с предизвикателството тази книга да стигне до нас, и то вероятно във възможно най-красивата си и пълна форма! Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле:https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
Little-known fact, this book of children's poetry by T.S. Eliot was the inspiration for the cringe-worthy Broadway musical, "Cats." Many of the poems are the lyrics, verbatim, for the show. But if you, like so many others, are revulsed or terrified by the thought of those cavorting, feline freaks on stage, well, just try and put it out of your mind. These are fun poems for kids, and would make great bedtime reading! Unless you are a dog family, in which case you should probably go with "Clifford" or something.
Dedicate this to my furbaby, Annushka.
I enjoyed listening to T.S. Eliot reading Macavity: The Mystery Cat, one of the best poems from Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats, on an audio book, called T.S.Eliot Reading The Waste Land, Four Quartets and Other Poems, published by Harper Collins, which I recommend to all those who appreciate his poetry.
It seemed clear to me that T.S. Eliot enjoyed writing his poems about cats, maybe even with a smile on his face, at times, knowing he intended them to be read by his godchildren.
A book which would be enjoyed by anyone who likes reading light verse.
The humor in Mr. Eliot's guide to cats is rather droll, or perhaps "British" as some might term it but the poet was born & raised in Saint Louis & drew some of his images, including Prufrock, from that American river city.
There is even an old recording of Eliot reading a few of these masterful cat-tales.
With his features of clerical cut, And his brow so grim And his mouth so prim And his conversation, so nicely Restricted to What Precisely And If & Perhaps and But...So, at some point, do give Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats a glance or two and also look for the old Caedmon recitation with Irene Worth & Sir John Gielgud as well.
Да ти се прииска да си котка.
Целият си достойнство, класа, изящество- идва ти отвътре.
никога не е скучно.
Да не говорим пък с каква грация и вкус си го живеят.Фантастичен T.S. Eliot.
Усмихна ме.***But I tell you, a cat needs a name that's particular,A name that's peculiar, and more dignified,Else how can he keep up his tail perpendicular,Or spread out his whiskers, or chеrish his pride?***When you notice a cat in profound meditation, The reason, I tell you, is always the same:His mind is engaged in a rapt contemplationOf the thought, of the thought, of the thought of his name:His ineffable effableEffanineffableDeep and inscrutable singular Name.***With Cats, some say, one rule is true:Don't speak till you are spoken to.Myself, I do not hold with that-I say, you should address a Cat.But always keep in mind that heResents familiarity.I bow, and talking off my hat,Address him in this form: O, Cat!
And it is about cats, what could be better?
From "The Old Gumbie Cat"But when the day's hustle and bustle is done,Then the Gumbie Cat's work is but hardly begunAnd when all the family's in bed and asleep, She slips down the stairs to the basement to creep.She is deeply concerned with the ways of the mice-Their behavior's not good and their manners not nice;So when she has got them lined up on the matting, She teaches them music, crocheting and tatting."My favorite poem in the book is "The Ad-dressing of Cats"where he does some comparing of cats and dogs.
