https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1007172.The_Bachelor_of_Arts
Do we outgrow love? Do we outgrow hope? Do we outgrow Narayan?No!!! Never!!!Narayan's stories are the best because they are simple. Not only is Malgudi familiar to me, but I have lived many incidents that occurs there. Chandran's extensive study timetables... now who among us has not wasted many precious hours preparing those! This book too is a happy making book in a very Narayan way.
Around the same time that William Faulkner was inventing his mythical Yoknapatawpha County, many thousands of miles away, Indian author R.K. Narayan was doing the same thing in his novels set in a small city named Malgudi in the southern State of Tamil Nadu.
Today, I read The Bachelor of Arts (1937), set in an India that was still under British control.
Finally, he returns to Malgudi, finds a good job, and finds an even more beautiful bride in Susila.I have read about eight of Narayan's Malgudi novels and find him continuing to grow on me.
Narayan, however, brought a wistful smile to this reader's face as he recognized the universality of those youthful stumblings and the crazy luck that so often ameliorates the reckless errors of early adulthood.
It's a universality found in a time and place so different from ours: India in the 30s, where an arranged marriage could falter on the outcome of a horoscope.
Narayan's gentle, tender touch makes the quotidian meanderings of his flawed characters simultaneously comic and tragic, and those characters sympathetic.Highly recommended.
It is not that Chandran, the young central character of this small Narayan novel, is lackadaisical or lazy, but crucial life decisions just happen more than result from any planning.
In fact, once Chandran sees the course before him, he can be filled with passionate, even irrational, intent.
He falls passionately in love with a young woman to whom he has never spoken, nor hardly ever will; he becomes a wandering ascetic for a period of time simply because that seems the proper reaction to his disappointment in love; he stumbles upon a job working for a newspaper.
or, well, as much intensity as this somewhat thin character can muster!
here is the deal..This is one book which brings out how one ordinary Indian living in rural India spends his life.
The story writes about small day-to-day activities and thoughts behind them, which I myself have been through.
Reading the book evoked those thoughts again.2.
At places I was tempted to drop reading as the story to me being an Indian was predictable.
The writing was predictable as well after the first half of the book.3.
I loathe to imagine that if such a story is published by some author in the current date, it will not be taken well.(my assumption)Still 3 stars atleast since:1.
And it is very likely that not many people will relate to a Bachelor of Arts, not many people would secretly fantasize living the romantic as well as tragic life Chandran lived in the story, and this is why they would just disregard this book as any other Indian coming-of-age story.
But for select few, including me, this book is a rare jewel and in the years to come, we will hold it close to our hearts.
Here the journey of protagonist Chandran from his college life till the very end of this book although seems simple, but in fact has a very deep messages hidden in it.
Like the positive change in Chandran’s character– though in a way his mistakes, his impulsiveness in taking any decision, his misconception towards love and friendship injures him a lot but in turn it also teaches him a lesson and helps him grow mentally strong and makes him realize the importance of his life and family.
My only complain is the ending which is a bit abrupt like his other works!my book journal
And then the inevitable 'settling down' into adulthood, when you know your friends are gone and your college days are reduced to "Group photos" hung on your college walls.For a change, RKN's protagonist is not a no-good loser.
Subsequent works tend to go darker right after his wife died, before picking up on the lightness, eventually settling on a good balance between the two.It's very interesting to read RKN's works as references or checkpoints to his own life, and you can mark the trajectory starting from the almost autobiographical works in the beginning to being the writer he became, starting from works like The Financial Expert and Waiting for the Mahatma.Chandran rose from the gallery and stood looking at some group photos hanging on the wall.

This is one of the finest books written by RK Narayan.There was drama,Irony,Humour what not everything.
Dwelling into the transformation of a young, easy-going college student into a man of serious disposition, the joys, aspirations, dreams, the inevitable heartbreak and revival of hope that all stud this period of transformation are well narrated in a manner only RKN can.Chandran is the son of doting parents and elder brother to an adoring young boy.
A life of comfort, simple joys and routine dreams promises to get better when he meets, no, sees a young girl during one of his evening strolls by the river.
‘The Bachelor of Arts’ is one such book laced with the trademark subtle humor of R.K. Narayan, mixed with a tinge of sadness that lurks in the background like the ever-present nose in front of our eyes.
I’m too small a person to comment on R K Narayan’s writing but I can safely claim that he has an inimitable style which makes you appreciate the nuances of day-to-day life and transports you into the setting of his semi-fictional world.
Set in the background of Malgudi, The Bachelor of Arts is part two of the trilogy starting with Swami and Friends and traces the life of Chandran, and his experiences in colonial era India as a college student, who later falls in love and gets heartbroken, leading to a stint as a Sanyasi in Madras before returning to Malgudi, after realizing the sacrifices his family has made for him and how their love needs to be reciprocated.
It’s a simple story, written in simple language. Most of it, predictable. For a book written decades ago, this book still reflects the Indian society, and the struggles of an average Indian caught up in the tug of war between traditionalism and modernity. Also, a major chunk of the book depicts the transformation of a young graduate to an adult - what happens when life pricks your bubble and you face the challenges that reality has in store for you. Experiences that have a role to play in the becoming of an adult, is what this book is all about.
I'm dividing this review into Pros, Cons and Verdict.Pros: An engaging read from start to finish.
And even though this type of novel is deemed satirical, I found it unusually unputdownable as well.
The main character Chandran is simplistically fun and his contact with the other characters is intriguing to read about.
The best support was from the poet Mohan whose thoughts are equally unique as Chandran's.
Ultimately, The Bachelor of Arts is one of the best satirical novels I've ever read.
It was my first Narayan book so obviously I was quite curious as well as excited to finally read one of the most respected Indian author of all time.
And now I know why I heard about him so much for all these years; absolutely brilliant to say the least.
It is absolutely amazing when you get to know that it was published in 1937 and still you can connect at so many levels with the entire story.
And nothing looks out of time even though it was published almost 75 years ago :)Go for it just to see how simplicity and depth can go together in a story.
Excellent story. RK Narayan in his simple and charming ways, takes us through college life, friendship and love.Malgudi the town continues to enthrall the reader; while this book provides a different facet portrayed through a very different human experience, one can still imagine Swami and his friends playing about in town while Chandran is participating in debates, falling in love and starting his own business.Good and fast read; only, this edition has bad print, small fonts and is ridden with spelling errors.
NEVER has something so simple given me so much joy. The book is so charming and captures British Indian life in a very realistic way. The book is so relatable , mundane things which we would never think of come of as something so relatable and reading this book was a lovely experience :)
When you keep on reading the novel you feel like it is your own story.
Hustles and bustles of the college life and how you try to win attention and be appreciated by the teachers, how you feel when you transit from an adolescent to an adult, how you manage your family ties are described by Narayan exceptionally well making it everyone’s story.The ways Chandran “falls” in love with his dream girl is interesting.
Later he falls in love with Susila, whom his father introduces him through a proposal and decides to marry her.
I love immersing myself in his world and I feel that no more genuine and sincere guide could ever be found to our common reality than this author.The Bachelor of Arts tells of Chandran, who graduates from college and falls in love with Malathi, a girl he sees on the sands of the river bank one evening.
I fully understand why Graham Greene said that Narayan was his favourite writer in the English language.
Greene said that Narayan had metaphorically offered him a second home in India; and that's exactly the way I feel too.
LIked Swami And Friends better. But enjoyed this a lot. Until it flopped out one of those 'middle of the story" endings, where you're left wandering around in a daze wondering what the ending of the book - had the writer finished writing to the ending! - might have been. I tire of this trick. it's unfair, and a rip-off. Just write a proper ending. Dont just suddenly put your pen down, throw your arms up in the air and say 'finished'. Rude. Otherwise, a beautiful read.
The simplicity was touching. One of the best novels by Narayan I've read till date. Gave a firm yet tingling grasp on the stoutness and unimaginable flexibility of the human mind.
It was my first RK Narayan book...I really enjoyed reading it but was quite disappointed when I reached the end. It ended so abruptly!
The story takes us through a journey in Chandran's life in his early 20s, when he finishes the last year of his college and finally becomes a 'Bachelor of Arts'.
The confusion that follows completion of college, added with the guileless love of young adulthood takes us to an entirely different phase in his life where he finds himself hopeless, helpless and hapless: his entire life based on lies and deceit and selfishness on others' part.
आर.के नारायण से मेरी पहचान उनके उपनयास और कहानियों से बने एक दूरदरशन के परोगराम ‘मालगुडी डेज’ से हुई
आर.के नारायण से मेरी पहचान उनके उपन्यास और कहानियों से बने एक दूरदर्शन के प्रोग्राम ‘मालगुडी डेज’ से
📝Book Review : The Bachelor of Arts (1956) by R.K. Narayan✴Pages: 166✴Price: ₹145 (Indian Thought Publications, 2015 edition)✴Genre: General fictionThis books tells about the story of a guy who goes to college like all of us. He tries hard making hectic study routines trying to please his father, trying his best on a day-to-day basis. However, like all of us, something or the other comes up disrupting his heavy study schedule more often than once. He is the kind of person who gets so involved in
He got so caught up in the process that even his parents had to yield to his one & only dream of his life i.e to marry her (who he knows barely).But somehow even after trying his best, the girl got married to someone else.And he was left devastated.But this somehow proved to be the only answer which would make him the person he was supposed to be.He left home, almost became a sanyasi, living on the mercy of those who could spare a little bit for him.

Rating: 4/5“Friendship was another illusion like love, though it did not reach the same mad heights.
"Love and friendship were the veriest illusions"Above lines sum up the essence of this beautiful Book.
This is my second attempt with R.K.N and as usual I must admit that; It is always a bliss to read R.K.N work.Reading R.K.N is like - Taking a barefoot walk in the drizzling incessant rain.
It's a deeply moving short novel.
Honest and simple writing style.
Some of RK Narayan's stories were visualized as telefilms in Doordarshan.
As a child, I was not impressed watching them.
This made me skip reading his books so far.
I should read more of RK Narayan.
Something tells me that one of his books would touch my soul.
This book almost does that.There are some politically incorrect things in this novel.
But it is a true and honest account.
Someone promoting a social injustice might be a good person inside.
We have to also take into account the time this novel was written.
This is the second book of RK Narayan I ever read.
The first one being Swami and friends which I read in 5th or 6th grade.
If you read it just as a story, there isn't much happening.
Chandran is a regular guy with regular thoughts and regular problems.
But I think this regularity is probably essence of the novel.
What Chandran thinks, his problems and his ways of dealing with them are very similar to how people actually behave in life.
Chandran is each one of us.
And that is probably what is humorous about the novel.
The story takes off from where "Swami and Friends" leaves us. Narayan has the uncanny ability to represent through his seemingly self centered stories the universality of human nature. The story is of a spoiled, self-indulgent graduate unsure of his place in the world and life, the youth whom you'd find anywhere in the world. Narayan expressed love, friendship, heartbreak, parting, detachment in his unique way. Simplistic in the trademark Narayan style yet brutally realistic.
