https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142181.The_Inverted_World
Dick, Inverted World reads like science fiction in slow motion, which is exactly the appropriate speed to make this story accessible, especially for those of us who ordinarily do not read science fiction.MEDIEVAL-LIKE GUILDSThe workings of the guild system was founded by the city’s founder, one Destaine.
A nasty business to be sure.JOLT OF THE WEIRDSo, we as readers join Helward moving along at the slow, methodical speed of medieval-like time for the entire first half of the novel.
This novel is actually all kinds of amazing when it comes to the exploration of a few core ideas and more than very decent when it comes to exploring humanity, perception, and irreconcilable differences.The story is ostensibly a coming of age story, an acceptance of one's world, and then, eventually a deep dissent without a true solution, but it comes across so easily, so effortlessly, that I'm truly unsurprised that this was nominated for the Hugo in '75 and won the British SF award in the same.
Infinite space along a traversable time, the inverse of the Earth we actually live in.But this is where the story gets interesting.
”We are a long way from Earth. Our home planet is one I doubt we shall ever see again, but if we are to survive here we must maintain ourselves as a microcosm of Earth. We are in desolation and isolation. All around us is a hostile world that daily threatens our survival. As long as our buildings remain, so long shall man survive in this place. Protection and preservation of our home is paramount.”---Destain’s Directive There is certainly the ring of Winston Churchill in this directive, but what
That is about to change.Part of Helward’s guild training is achieving a deeper understanding of the function of The City.
With growing unease, Helward is starting to question everything, including the whole concept of chasing optimum.He meets a young Englishwoman on one of his excursions away from tTe City, and the way she sees things casts even more doubt in his mind.
We start to question along with him what is really going on with The City and with the world that surrounds it.
I can now safely say that I can navigate The City with some level of acquired street sense.
Occasionally I come a across sci-fi books that are pure thought experiments, where the authors sets out to explore some outlandish idea to its logical conclusion.
For all I know Christopher Priest had some other intent for the book but clearly thought experimentation appears to be the primary purpose.Inverted World (“The” is added to the title in some editions) is often found in “best science fiction books” lists, it is a Hugo nominee and the winner of the British Science Fiction Association award for best novel in 1975.
An idea reused in China Miéville's 2004 novel Iron Council, but Inverted World is much more bizarre though as it is an entire city being moved, for unknown destination and even purpose.
So, we know from Einstein that space and time are both part of a larger concept that unifies them, and moreover that spacetime is curved.
Much to his credit, Christopher Priest manages to turn this observation into a metaphor which forms the basis of an imaginative, well-written science-fiction novel.
One of the characters has done something truly despicable, and finally confesses it to a friend.
He expects the friend to be appalled, but he just looks thoughtful.
After a while, he says,- In a curved moral space, there are no straight lines.I have always liked this gnomic sentence.
It's not out of the question that it inspired Priest's book.

You know how dumb-asses will describe something as being "like ___ on acid." This book is like if Philip K.
Dick wasn't on acid.
Like, if Dick had been a studious young man into engineering and physics instead of a drugged-out freakazoid.
Frankly I have no idea why NYRB reissued it, as it's really more of a curio than anything else and probably could have stayed out of print without the general reading public suffering too much.
But kinda cool that it's out there, and if the description or Lethem's blurb intrigues you, you could do worse and you'll finish it within a couple days probably.
Like a Sumi-e painting, Priest evokes a vivid mood and location with a chosen paucity of pen strokes.I found the central mystery compelling -- so much so that I read most of this (relatively short) novel on a plane flight.
Some of this seems deliberate: like  John Fowles's  The Magus, we readers are left a bit adrift at the end, on our own hooks to make what we can of the conundrums of the text.
But on reading  John Clute's effusive afterward, and reflecting on the story a bit, I have to admit that the protagonist's flattened affect may be deliberate, rather than clumsy -- a symbol of the mystery and a reflection of the environment in which he finds himself.
This creates a problem for someone approaching this genre in maturity and without any baggage.Also – a lot of this stuff is simply written too quickly – people writing 20, 30 books in a career shows a certainly carelessness… That sloppy use of phony-sounding names that I keep harping (let’s take anything that pops into our head approach) is a sign of this…My guess is that a lot of the best SF probably comes in the form of short stories, rather than novels, where the shorter format is probably better able to sustain the reach that’s necessary… So maybe I should try to focus more on those.Anyway – this may all be completely wrong....
I can't entirely speak for some of the underlying physics (some "hard" sci-fi what-ifs mix well with social concerns here), but its terribly interesting and seems well-thought-through enough that I have no complaints.Starting simply but intriguingly with a city that must constantly move through an uncertain and perhaps threatening world on tracks, subsequent iterations move us into an elegant mathematical delerium, sociopolitical questions, problems of perception and reality, then still further inversions.
Checking my recent reading again, I'm gonna hypothesize that there's a pretty specific window, maybe 67 through 74, Ice to Dhalgren, that encapsulates all my favorite sci-fi impulses, and which this falls into.
4.0 stars. Outstanding science fiction novel. This is the first novel by Christopher Priest that I have read and I plan to read the rest of his wroks based on the strength of this novel. Great premise, good characters and and tightly woven plot that is never boring. Unlike some other reviewers, I thought the ending was great. Highly recommended!!Winner: British Science Fiction Award for Best NovelNominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel
And as part of learning what makes things tick around the place, Helward is sent off to supervise the ripping-up of some railway lines south of the city, and then see them shipped up north of it......and at this point your head sort of turns inside out, as you realise all of your assumptions about what's been happening are wrong - the technical term is, I suppose, 'conceptual breakthrough', but I just think of it as Chris Priest messing with my head.
This book is set on a world with different physical laws than we experience on earth. The explanation for why things are so is only revealed close to the end of the novel and is a real surprise!
And also this novel by Christopher PriestWhen I first read Inverted World some thirty years ago, it made a huge impression on me.
And I hope you are.)For thirty years I've recounted the basic premise of the book to people I knew were unlikely to ever read it.
While there are people in it, I don't think anyone would call them "great characters." The building of another world is the main thing.It was just as I remembered it — up to a point.
In other words, I read and understood the book on a very basic level when I was younger.
The middle section of ‘The Inverted World’ is extraordinary.
Most of the populous doesn’t really understand why the city has to move, but as a guildsman Mann is let into the terrifying secret of what they are leaving behind on this terrible planet.Of course there’s no way back to blockiness after the middle section, so the final third of the book ups the game even more by challenging all assumptions of the book so far.
‘The Inverted World’ is a work of astounding confidence; a fantastically ambitious piece of sometimes surreal science fiction which truly rewards patience.
Po mom skromnom mišljenju, ovo je jedan od najluđih opisa nekog svijeta unutar SF literature i nevjerojatno je koliko je izučavanja dovelo do same postavke ovoga svijeta.Priča prati Grad u svom vječnom lovu na nedostižni optimum gdje je polje gravitacije relativno normalno pa svi žitelji Grada mogu normalno funkcionirati.
Iako je Priest zadnju trećinu knjige napisao kako bi sve razjasnio, ali težište romana bacio na ljudsku psihu i percepciju, ovo je uvrnuto remek djelo ma što bilo tko mislio o tome.
Čak i sam završetak knjige je upravo filozofičan i pun sjete, te lijepo govori o tome kako trebamo braniti i boriti se za ono u što vjerujemo.
But as we learn what the city is moving towards--and what it is moving away from--the central mystery of the story becomes weird, strange, eerily convoluted, and--for me, at least--a bit difficult to grasp.
Overall, I'm glad I found this (understatement of the year; this was on my wish list for a long time--along with most of everything else in the NYRB library--and I think I may have let out a small squeal of delight when I found this at the bookstore), and I definitely need to read more of Priest's books.
I'm no great fan of Science Fiction, but this novel transcends the genre.
That's okay early in the novel because the narrator is a young apprentice of a guild; it's natural for him to ask questions about his new duties and surroundings.
The suspense is beautifully handled.
You never quite know where the narrative will end up.
I think the book's real strength is its masterful use of omission.
It withholds beautifully the information the reader needs to solve everything.
Just when you think you know where he's going, he doesn't.
In a run down landscape, where society seems to have fallen apart, there's a moving city whose inhabitants fanatically try to maintain their civilization.
They move their city on rails that are laid, picked up, and then relaid, as the city moves northward towards a constantly moving point, called, "the optimum." Men are hired from the less civilized areas that the city moves through to help lay the tracks and dig them up again as the city continues on its course.
I'm hesitant to give away anything more, because part of the fun is trying to figure out why the city has to move, what the optimum is, and the strangeness of what is behind and ahead of them.
This was a book group pick, and, though it was an NYRB, I didn't think I was in the mood for this.
Turns out, this was exactly the book I needed.
There are a couple of issues I'm still troubling over, but I think that's a sign of a good read -- I want to figure it out, I'm engaged enough to keep puzzling with it, long after the last page.
Priest's writing reminds me a lot of George R.
And both authors keep you thinking.
I'll be adding a few more Priest titles to my tbr list.

Sometimes authors just straight up tell readers what is going on, even if the character isn't in on the know; I love books where you journey alongside the character, and feel their surprises, their revelations.
I don't want to go into detail because I feel like the best thing about this book is to read it blind, let yourself be sucked in by the revelations one by one.
Readers seem to be hinting that all of Priest's novels tie in to a similar world, or at least they link to each other in some way.
Mann goes through the motions of growing up, tackle adult issues, unravels his mind around his experiences but absent plasticity in his rigid thinking, can not wrap his head around reality.The Inverted World reads like a cognitive exercise.
In my mind, the reader participates in the narrative for our reality is the basis upon which we try to understand Mann’s.
We observe and we retell the story from our point of view, to figure out if we can perceive a world like this.
As the story progresses, our point of view is merged into the groundswell of the populace of Mann's world.
The Inverted World is choke-full of big ideas for a relatively short book.
But in retrospect, I think that might have been the only way as he himself was not sure how to end the book convincingly enough the message he wanted to convey was drastically different than I had expected while reading the book.My suggestion to anyone who is interested in reading this book would be to start it without reading any reviews anywhere, and that’s the reason I am not even going to summarize the plot here.The book will hold your attention right till the end as something weird and/ or amazing is always happening, but don’t expect to get all your questions answered as the ambiguity about certain scientific phenomena is never going to be elucidated in the context of the plot.But even with its rather dull ending, this book is not likely to disappoint as the rest is pretty good.
I read this in 1981 - and thinking back so many years, I realise that it was the book that kindled my love for physics based science-fiction, and how we might have to adapt if we lived under different laws of physics.
It is obvious that this is a work that was several years in gestation and not hurridly dashed down on paper - Priest says in the afterword that he wrestled with teh concepts for eight years, and discussed them with mnay of his friends.It is a classic, a must for any serious science fiction connoisseur.
Knjiga koju sam pročitao u 2 dana. Genijalna ideja, sažeta naracija i postepeno upoznavanje sa svim detaljima funkcioniranja grada i njegovog društva su jednostavno gušt za čitati. Svijet u kojem se odvija radnja je fascinantan, ali nažalost rasplet i njegovo objašnjenje je ispalo ubrzano, "očekivano" i time razočaravajuće, jer sam se ipak nadao odmaku od poznatih nam stvari, a također i zato jer postoje stvari u priči koje se ne uklapaju u to objašnjenje. Unatoč toj boljci, knjiga je odlično štivo i prekrasno putovanje u jedan fascinantan svijet.
Really interesting premise, horrible prose with no description. Not that I need elaborate description to be happy--there is NO description. The most you ever get is like, "They entered a hall. There was a door at the end of it."And there's creepy misogyny, which made me put it down like 2/3 of the way thru. I would have liked to know how it ended. Oh well.
A rather ordinary scifi adventure story elevated to something more with a great plot twist. I obviously won't go into it for the sake of spoilers, but I can say that this asks a few stark questions about isolation and belief as well as bringing up neat scientific concepts.
Pe alocuri invechita, dar se poate inca citi cu placere.
Nevjerojatno dobar SF, super ideja i odlično napisano.Jedno 4-5 puta pročitano.(od 1988.)
