https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/699712.The_Man_Called_Noon
He only knows that someone is trying to kill him, but doesn't know who or why.
L'Amour's book starts at that point and quickly moves into one of a man searching for his past and just trying to stay alive.
Full of the author's wonderful description of the west, and his great characters both good and bad (and sometimes a little of both).
Throw in some hidden treasure, a lady in distress and the growing mystery of Noon's past, you get a short but solid read.
That's what you expect from L'Amour and what made him a bestselling author.
Read most of Louis Lamour's books when I was in my late teens and early twenties. They are important to me as they were some of the first books that got me into the reading habit. For that I shall be forever grateful
I have discovered I enjoy falling asleep listening to Louis L'Amour books. Will wonders never cease?
Our giving up what is ours merely to escape trouble would only create greater trouble for someone else."This is Louis L'AMour's Bourne Identity character.
A man awakens, not knowing who he is, bruises and a bullet scar on his head, and overhears men wondering if their target could've survived.
Assuming himself to the be the target, he escapes and tries to discover why men would want him dead.
The last two L'Amour books featured characters of Vader and Obi. This contains a character called Lebo and Finn, instantly bringing to mind The Empire Strikes Back and The Force Awakens.
I think the problem for me was the whole "memory loss" plot of the main character. That had the potential to be a really interesting dilemma, however it didn't live up to that potential. Nothing really happened with it. You expect him to trust the wrong people or have some big slip-up, but it never really happened. The story was good. It was a classic western, which I would have enjoyed more had I not been waiting for the memory loss to play a part. Good, but nothing special.
A man has his memory erased by a fall. All he knows is that someone wants him dead and he can't trust anyone in his present condition. All he possesses is a name that he is told is his and deadly skill with a gun. A thrilling tale by a master story teller.
The reader never does discover the mystery in Jonas' past just the current mystery of who he is and what he was hired to do.
Each time the good are defeated, or each time they yield they only cause the forces of evil to grow stronger.
109 Jonas speaking: "If only evil men are willing to use force, what will happen to the good men?" Also on p.
It is as simple as that?" This is a discussion between Fan and Jonas.
A student may choose to explore the traveling that Jonas did in the story or the historical reference to the Spanish and their gold or the Cliff People.
The only reason I did not give this book four out of five stars, which means I would be willing to read it again, is that I know there are dozens of other Louis L'Amour stories out there that I would like to read.
With an author as prolific as Louis L'Amour, I admit my rating system is a little skewed.I wonder if Robert Ludlum read this book before coming up with his idea for Jason Bourne.
The Man Called Noon seemed a little confused in the beginning, the story felt disjointed.
The prose feels like a first draft that never got a copyedit; the ending is abrupt even for L'Amour; nothing seems as fleshed out as it ought to be, including the amnesia element of the plot (which I was looking forward to; a Western Jason Bourne?
And while I've learned to expect atrocious character names from this writer, Lyman Manly seems like a new low.
I was left wondering if this was a long-lost draft discovered later in the author's career and never revised or edited.
But this is not one I'd start with if you're new to the genre or to the author.
Post-Civil War western taking place primarily around a ranch in the southwest corner of Colorado with a foray to El Paso, Texas.
A protagonist with amnesia has been done before but here it has a new twist.
The man who comes to believe he is the gunfighter Ruble Noon, may have had a different identity a half dozen years ago.Western - In one swift moment, a fall wiped away his memory.
He had only the name he had been told was his own, his mysterious skill with a gun, and a link to a half million dollars' worth of buried gold as evidence of his past life.
While trying to discover, who you are.As well as do you really want to know?This was a fun read, Full of some twists and turns.From the opening, with a mob or posse on his trail.Not knowing, did he do something deserving to be hung for?Plus you do not know, who is an enemy or who is an ally.Took me less time to read then this shows.Good page turner.
Well paced with plot and action.Thing that kept it from a 5 star.More could have been tied up, slightly expounded on.
That does leave some things left for you to assume.In regards to his full life, mixing with where he finishes.
One of my favorites. Loss of memory, is he good or bad, is he Ruble Noon, a damsel in distress and shootouts galore. So easy to read as long as you take it all with a pinch of salt and do not over analyze the back story. Hidden rooms and dubious moralizing aside a great Western.
A grand adventure with a strong sense of place and taut, crisp writing. I haven't read much Louis L'Amour, perhaps I should delve in more. But I could have just been sucked in by the amnesia that the main character is suffering from, a plot line I have a curious affinity for.
Not quite a 5 rating, it reminded me of western movies I watched years ago. Quite an engaging tale. This is an example of how reading "challenges" can encourage to read books that you wouldn't normally consider. And I am glad I read this.
Very enjoyable book to read. Thanks to the author and knowledge he possesses. Nice to have an author that has western knowledgeI very much enjoyed the history and knowledge of the west. Thanks very much for your time spent researching this books hi.
Actually, this is one of my favorite Louis L'Amour books thus far. I found it well written and worth reading.
Man Called NoonThis was my first L'About book it made a fan of his. I have read almost all of his works
I thought it was pretty good but wanted to read more about what happened after..
Not a bad book but would have been better without the amnesia story line. There are far to many holes in it and it adds little to the story. It generally just become an annoying side line.
One of my favorite Louis L'Amour books I have read yet.
Awesome WesternAnother awesome western for Louis L'Amour! He was a master storyteller and they just don't write them like this anymore!Five stars!
Ruble NoonI chose this rating as I do all L'Amour books. I have read a lot of his books which are an easy read and very enjoyable.
Good, quick read. Louis sure does paint a good picture and weave a good tale!
L'Amour never disappoints.
Another great book.Truly a great story, good characters, lots of unknowns to keep you reading. Looking forward to Borden Chantry. Louis definitely, knew the area he was writing about. I love the stone cabin. I'm far-reaching the L'Amour novels, and find them as interesting as I did the first time.
Still, the characters are portrayed much better than usual.I also get a kick out of the way L'amour makes it obvious when the hero is speaking Spanish to other Spanish-speakers, as the language suddenly reads like it's been translated from English to Spanish and back again, which is actually kind of cool and more accurate, in terms of how it would sound to someone fluent in Spanish, so kudos to that, or muchas gracias, amigo.Another cool bit of detail is when the hero (called Noon, obviously) takes off his boots and puts on moccasins when he wants to run/sneak around.
Ο κρυμμένος θησαυρόςΆλλο ένα κλασικό γουέστερν του μαιτρ του είδους Λουίς Λ'Αμούρ που περνάει στην λίστα με τα διαβασμένα.
Εδώ έχουμε έναν άγνωστο άντρα ο οποίος έχει μια προσωρινή αμνησία και έτσι δεν θυμάται ποιος είναι.
Ξέρει όμως ότι είναι τραυματισμένος και ότι κάποιος τον κυνηγάει για να τον σκοτώσει.
Και αναρωτιέται: Είναι καλός ή κακός; Τον κυνηγάει ο νόμος ή κάποιος πληρωμένος φονιάς; Τελικά θα βγάλει άκρη, μιας και ήταν γνωστός στην γύρω περιοχή και πολλοί τον αναζητούσαν...
Η αλήθεια είναι ότι με εξιτάρουν τα μυθιστορήματα όπου ο πρωταγωνιστής δεν ξέρει ποιος ακριβώς είναι και ψάχνει να βρει μια άκρη.
No idea who he was or why the shot in the head which had taken his memory.
Just no identity.And men were hunting him.He heard one speak of Ben Janish as the one who'd shot him.
But not why or why they wanted to kill him.He escapes and comes to learn his name was Ruble Noon.
Bits and pieces came slowly and he wanted to help the young woman named Fan Davidge.
Nor how he was tied to the young woman.But crooked folks didn't believe that.
They all wanted the gold and him, not to mention Fan Davidge, dead.Another fine western from the late author.
With help from his friend, Outlaw Rimes, he figures out he once had a wife and kids who were both killed.
The attacker later attempted to kill Noon but did not succeed.
Outlaw Rimes also told him about Noons hidden treasure so that is what the attacker was trying to get at he thought.
Read the book The Man Called Noon by Louis L' Amour to figure out if he finds the attacker or not.
I liked how the story ends, but what I do not like is how they foreshadow.
It was like I couldn't stop reading at some points.
Amnesia in the Old West when hired guns are hot on the hero's trail...perfect reading for a gloomy day!
The non-stop action in this story hooked me from the first and didn't let go.
The main character, as all L'Amour's main guys, is moral and thoughtful, but ready and able to defend himself and those being mistreated.
The heroine didn't have much character beyond the magnetic pull she had over the hero and her own blind faith in the hero, but given the quantity of action, there really wasn't time for much else.I've always loved Louis L'Amour.
