https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/401838.Alicia
I loved this memoir. Alicia is a twelve-year-old Jewess living in Poland during the occupation of Germany, and her recollections of events surrounding the Holocaust are amazing. Just a child herself, she is reponsible for the rescue of dozens of people during this time because she has courage and conviction. I love this story most for its apparent coincidences of good fortune--which I believe are manifestations of Heavenly Father's loving care for His suffering children. Read this book!
I've read a number of Holocaust stories, but none from the perspective of someone in eastern Europe who lived through atrocities outside of the concentration camps. Alicia's story is unforgettable, as is Alicia herself--her courage and kindness at such a young age. My copy has a handwritten note from Alicia (not to me, but to a student)and a phone number to contact her to speak at no charge to any group.
I first read this when I was 9 or 10 because my mom read it for a book club and told me about it and I wanted to read it, so I read all 400 pages and I LOVED IT. I've probably read it 4 more times since then. It's a true story so that makes it even better. What this girl lived through during World War II is amazing, and it really touched me, and all of her heroic deeds are inspiring. One of my favorites of all time.
Drawn inexplicably to the book last night, I opened the cover to discover a personal inscription from the author dated February 1, 1991, almost 20 years ago today."To dear ______, a tragic page in history was written for my generation, G-d willing you will write your page with happiness, love, Shalom, and a celebration of human dignity.
And it is our duty to write the pages of our generation with “happiness, love, Shalom, and a celebration of human dignity.”http://www.annefrankwall.org/holocaus...“I pray that all [readers of Alicia], Jew and non-Jew alike, may unite in the resolve that evil forces will never again be permitted to set one people against another.” Alicia Appleman-Jurman
One of my absolute favorite books. I had the honor of speaking to Mrs. Appleman-Jurman on the phone several years ago. A good friend of hers was my mother's co-worker at the time. I was absolutely starstruck but she was so incredibly kind and thankful. I picked this book up in 9th grade by accident and it changed my outlook on life, no joke. Her story is heartbreaking an inspiring. She made me understand the real meaning of family, love, and forgiveness.
We got to talk in the car ride to my school (about an hour) and she told me how she speaks with kids of many different backgrounds, even to Palestinian children and loves all of them and is so saddened by their suffering.
She spoke to our school saying, "Germans weren't the enemy.
Hate is the enemy, and the only thing that can overcome hate is love." We went to lunch afterwards and when she noticed I didn't like my food, she cut her hamburger in half and put it on my plate.
What a moving book. I have read a number of Holocaust books but this is the first book I read, that described the events and horrors in Poland. The fight to live and the sacrifice of her mother were profound. It is a great history lesson with many life lessons as well. It made me appreciate my country, family and freedoms.
The courage and determination of this girl was incredible and her memoir broke my heart. A must-read.
This story like Anne Frank is based off of a true story of a young girl living through the Holocaust.
Unlike many of the stories I previously read about the Holocaust, this story was about a girl still living in the open world and how difficult it was for her to adapt.
This book is an inspirational story that can restore hope in anyone who chooses to read it.
Due to the powerful content of this book I believe that this will be a story that I always remember and encourage others to read.
During, at the close of and after WW11 she rose above even her own need to survive by making huge personal sacrifices very close to the point of her death to assure others of substance, shelter, motivation and personal warmth.
It is impossible for me to sum up her achievements here as it is my admiration for her.
All the world should be her stage not just to tell her story but more importantly to best understand the proper motivation of the facts of life accordingly.
I will say that Alicia's story is one that I am so glad I read.
This was such an interesting book for the true life experience of a holocaust survivor that does NOT involve an account of a concentration camp.
Alicia's story tells of her experience as a Polish Jew during WWII with as much tragedy and suffering as any, and after as she and the other survivors deal with so much loss, and their sense of displacement and their desire to find a place where they will not only be free from persecution, but free from the horrible memories that can't be erased in their homelands.
My favorite part in the book is when Alicia says she will not let anything kill her; she will not let anything bring her down she will fight until the Nazis get the punishment they deserve.
I also did not like that she had written it after the war and a few years later making her experience sound less emotional.
The author focused on telling her story rather then putting detail on what was happening; maybe that might also come by because the book was written after it all happened.
I would totally recommend this book to anyone who wants to know a little about the past.
Too painful to review.
115% = 5 StarsGOOD READI love this book.
It excels at everything.
I am glad that I was told to read it in school, as I've re-read it on my own several times since.
It is one of the few books that I reread and still enjoy.
I knew this author twenty years ago and I have to say that I have so much love and respect for her.
Her book kept my attention from beginning to end.
I haven't read it recently so I am not sure if my opinion may have changed.
Regardless her story is important and interesting and of course, heartbreaking.
This story has been proven repeatedly FALSE with hard documents and actual facts by Holocaust, literary, and history scholars around the world.
It's merely a psychological study of someone with severe mental illness, someone who is a pathological liar.There are many wonderful Holocaust memoirs to read that are 100% true and I recommend them highly.
Not only is there a ridiculous amount of documentary evidence of the truth of her story, I have been able to speak personally with her two best friends from childhood and Miep Gies, the woman who hid Anne.
It happened, it's a very true story.
The writer of this book, Alicia Appleman, went through many hardships while living during this time.
There were many people who helped her, but Alicia is the main character.
My favorite character was probably Alicia because she showed many hero characteristics while going through everything that she had to go through.I can't really relate to any of the characters.
I can't imagine how this was for the people who experienced this.I liked this book even though it was really sad.
My favorite part was when you find out at the end that Alicia helps hundreds of other people who are experiencing the same thing she had to go through.
Alicia, the main character in the book, has to fight for her life in many different situations.
Living off sour milk and stale bread, her and her mother must be strong in order to survive.The theme of this story is that you try hard enough, you can survive anything.
Another theme of this book is to always have courage because if Alicia wouldn't have had courage, she wouldn't have been able to escape all the situations she had to put herself in to.
The story explains all the situations Alicia was put in.
The writing style the author used was effective because it throuoghly explained the situation.
Alicia bravely shares her story of her childhood in Poland as a persecuted Jew during the Holocaust who becomes a strong and brave survivor.
Alicia narrowly escapes death on multiple occasions, which truly makes me believe that she has a purpose on this earth: to share her story with children and adults around the world.
Countless times you have opportunities to escape or be selfish and take from others for the mere sake of surviving.
You gave up opportunities to go to America and Israel.
Alicia Jurman's family lived and died in Poland during the Nazi occupation, but Alicia survived.
She also acted for others, helping Russian partisans (for which she got a medal) and after the war was over, finding food and housing for a number of concentration camp surviving orphans.
Families around her were betrayed and the betrayers moved into their furnished houses.
When the war was over and a business was reclaimed, the original owner often mysteriously disappeared leaving the new Polish owner in uncontested possession.
We've all heard about the horror of the concentration camps in Germany, but the horror of the Polish occupation was a real eye opener to me.
I have been reading this for school, and I believe everyone should read this book or one similar to it.
12 is a little young, I believe, for me to read this book, and I think 15 would be a better age.
She is an example of a wonderful person who endures and survives.
Everyone can learn some great lessons from this story, however I recommend not reading it before bed and getting somebody to read it with you or at the same time so you can discuss it.
I never read it before bed, but I'm almost sure it'd give you nightmares.
This woman is the ultimate survivor, is now one of my heroes and has a remarkable story that I'm so glad she had the courage to tell.
There are tons of stories out there about concentration camps and stories of hiding, like Anne Franks' Diary, but this one was a different perspective of the ghetto and surviving off the land as well as what trying to get back into life was like for the few survivors.
The book is compelling, heart-breaking, and definitely a must read.
Read it, seriously.
This book changed my life.
Buczacz was hardly a tiny settlement, and no amount of parental protection could have spared her from Polish anti-Semitism were it nearly as pervasive as it is usually made out to be.THE GERMANS FIRST MURDERED THE LEADERS OF BOTH JEWS AND POLESInterestingly, the first Nazi German action against the Jews was the arrest and murder of prominent civic, religious, and business leaders—those very ones who could inspire the people to resist.
Wow. That was beautiful.This is an autobiography of a young Jewish girl during the Holocaust. She is still alive today and her life itself is a remarkable feat. This novel brought to light the horrors the human race has done to itself and calls people to understand and take action against this type of event.My only problem was the writing, but I excuse it since English is like her sixth language.Amazing book.
Great memoir, filled with history of WW2 by someone who lived through it as a young adolescent. Alicia was amazing, a survivor through and through. Her story brought me to tears at her losses, the cruelty of prejudice permeated her story. Her strength and courage inspire me as they would anyone reading her story.
A heart wrenching true story about a girl who lived through World War Two; after watching her entire family die or seeing their bodies after they had, she still mustered the strength to live on and tell her story. I was afforded the opportunity to meet her, and ask her questions, in my sixth grade classroom after having read the book.
I slowly dragged my way through the first half of Alicia, and then I read quickly through the last half of the book. Alicia's book takes us through the time before the II World War, the deaths of her family members, to the ways she survived, the things she did to save other people, going by ship to Israel, and marrying and having children. I enjoyed reading the last half of the book.
Again, it's been a long time since I've read this book. But it's another WWII true story of a young girl who spends many years of her youth hiding and running from the gestapo. I remember really enjoying this book as well.
LOVED this book. Have read it multiple times over the past 13 years. Inspiring, enlightening and gut-wrenching.
This was an amazing story! It is about a young girl and how she survived and rescued people from the holocaust. Absolutly amazing bravery and brains as to how she survived.
First is that the book opens with Alicia as a nine-year-old girl and closes at age seventeen.
I kept expecting her to reference her faith and her God as the force that pulled her through and miraculously saved her time and again.
I view this book in stark contrast with The Hiding Place, which has different, although equally horrific events.
The Hiding Place always offered hope in darkness, joy in others (despite the environment), trust in a God of Deliverance, and forgiveness beyond mortal capacity.
I am grateful that Alicia recorded the events of her war years so that we all can learn from them.
