https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4987.Jailbird
Not one of the better known Vonnegut novels, and significantly different than most of his other collection. This is perhaps his most serious work.Jailbird lacks the absurdist bent characterized by so much of his other satire, and is conspicuously somber throughout most of the book, though it still features Vonnegut’s fast style and light approach. This might also be his most politically dogmatic work, eschewing his ubiquitous humor and playful wisdom with a staid, thoughtful passion for rights needing to be championed.All the same, he tackles some heavy subjects and embraces the themes with a mature, though still wry humor.
Sometimes, it sure seems like a bit of both.
I think part of the draw, for me, of these two authors right now is how they sensed (Vonnegut especially in this book) the absolute absurdity and reality of economic greed, political malfeasance, incompetence, power, and the inability of the huddled, socialist masses to make much of a damn bit of difference.Part of Vonnegut's appeal is his everyman's view of things.
I'm now two books into my own Vonnegut revisit.
I could never choose a favorite Vonnegut book, but when he died recently it was Jailbird I picked up to reread and feel his humanism and his compassion for all of flawed mankind.
To me the underlying theme of Vonnegut's work is the importance of fundamental kindness.
Even when Vonnegut it as his most negative about a situation, his conviction that compassion and generosity would be enough to fix whatever problem he's dwelling on shines through.
His disappointment that this approach is all too seldom used is the root of his cynicism but it is never disheartening to read because of that glimpse of childlike hope that we really could learn to be kind to one another.
Only in the 13 chapters (136 pages) that followed did it take on the familiar comic absurdist style of social commentary for which Vonnegut is better known.Love of LabourThe novel is a critique of private enterprise, capitalism and the labour relations that are imposed on workers by both small employers and large corporations (such as RAMJAC Corporation, a highly acquisitive conglomerate that owns 19% of the American economy, the ownership of which is eventually gifted to the US government, on behalf of the American people, on the death of the sole remaining shareholder, Mrs Jack Graham):“[Most of] the businesses of RAMJAC, rigged only to make profits, were as indifferent to the needs of the people as, say, thunderstorms...Some joke on the people, to give them such a thing.”The business people in the novel are largely corrupt Republican politicians, lackeys, crooks, mobsters and criminals (or is that a tautology?).
The author does not want you to know this but Goodreads has just been purchased by the RAMJAC Corporation.
Clewes had become an unsuccessful salesman, as I would find out later, of advertising matchbooks and calendars.”Fortune surely plays games with human beings and it played a wicked joke on the main hero of this novel – it turned him into a Jailbird“My official title in the Nixon White House, the job I was holding when I was arrested for embezzlement, perjury, and obstruction of justice, was this: the President's special advisor on youth affairs.
My chief qualification for the job, I thought, was that I myself had been a radical at Harvard, starting in my junior year.
I began reading this book just after finishing Anna Karenina and I am glad I did.
It was essentially everything Anna Karenina was not (in a good way).The prose was classic Vonnegut, light, fast paced and strangely hilarious.
I look at Vonnegut as many look upon their grandfathers.
The book was fun and seemingly lighthearted and like Vonnegut always does he make some serious points.Here is a quote, that given our current economic crisis seems perfect:"The economy is a thoughtless weather system-- and nothing more.
As the story goes on, Vonnegut introduces any number of improbably named supporting cast members, dipping into their lives to various degrees, and connecting them in ways both unlikely and realistically serendipitous.In these respects, Jailbird is typical Vonnegut fare, and for the first half or so, I was quite enjoying it.
I feel strange saying that, because I have no problem enjoying the myriad stories set in World War II, which is surely a world much more different from mine than America during Watergate.
It strikes me, not for the first time whilst reading Vonnegut that writers can be divided into two camps.
The ones who have to work to include that smart-arse-clever line/sentence/phrase they jotted down somewhere, sometime and really really need to get in.
Who was it who said that the more you like something you've written down, the more likely it is that you should take it out?
And the ones who, even if what they say hits you with a jolt - and Vonnegut's lines often do that - they nonetheless fit in.
They aren't forced, they naturally belong just there where the reader sets upon them.
I don't mind so much the Republicans who embrace greed and general douche-baggery.But it's those Republicans who cloak themselves in smug, moral self-righteousness, the ones who invoke God and think somehow Jesus would be on board with their selfish hypocrisy, that really annoy me.In the intro to Jailbird, Vonnegut refers to a letter he had recently received from a high-school reader who told Vonnegut he had read almost everything by him and wanted to share the single idea he found at the core of Vonnegut's life work: "Love may fail, but courtesy will prevail." And he's right; that's the message at the heart of everything Vonnegut has written, including his recently published Letters.
This was my first foray into Kurt Vonnegut territory, and I expected to have stronger feelings one way or another about his work.
Instead, I was mildly pleased when the book was finished and I could move on to something else.
He simply did not strike a chord with me.Perhaps if I had read a book or two of his in my younger days, or chosen a different title for my first Vonnegut reading?
Unknown, but having read this one, there was simply nothing that makes me want to try another.
"While I was a student, I sometimes caught the whiff of a promise that, after I graduated, I would be better than average at explaining important matters to people who were slow at catching on. Things did not work out that way." (46)The last book by Vonnegut that I read, God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater, left me rather cold—this one, Jailbird, was much better. In fact, I'd say it's up there with his best.
Kurt Vonnegut's characters and plotlines are the literary equivalent of 'that's just how it be on this bitch of an earth' and I love it.
Maybe Vonnegut's most political work, dealing with the Watergate scandal, attacking capitalism and communism and having a more serious approach to it even though it is still unmistakably Vonnegut. I wouldn't call this one of his top books, I would place quite a few above it, but it still is a fast paced and amusing joyride which only Vonnegut could write.
This is one of Vonnegut's more explicitly politically contemporary novels and one of his best--in his opinion as well as mine. I snuck it in just before starting the second semester at Loyola University Chicago.
Klasisks Vonnegūts, absurds un ļoti labs. Un Kilgora Trauta sci-fi stāstiņi.
Other readers are correct in the pacing of this book - it moves along a bit slower than other Vonnegut novels, but this was probably intentional with the author constantly referencing what a sad, old, fragile man he had become.
I can't think of a single time that I've witnessed a fragile old man rushing through his story.There were several things that made me fall in love with this story, which actually not my standard favorite things about Vonnegut novels.
But then again Jailbird is much more straightforward in its story line then some of his other books so it might be a bit more accessible.
I like how Mr. Vonnegut's writing skips around and truly makes no sense until about half way through when it starts to slowly come together.
He drops some hints here and there about the ending (foreshadowing would you call it?), but you know they're hints if you've read any of his other works.I will say that Jailbird does demonstrate Mr. Vonnegut's writing abilities.
So I would suggest Jailbird to anyone who has read a few other of Mr. Vonnegut's books, but not as your first.
I found this book in my bathroom and decided to read it.
It was left there by a guest who was probably pooping when he was reading it.
Starbuck, the hero (though he would probably prefer we not call him that), finds a paperback book in a bathroom stall at an airport and decides to read it.
When I was a senior in high school, I was introduced to Vonnegut and proceeded to read everything the man had ever written and would ever write.
At least you tried to believe what people with hearts believed - so you were a good man just the same."
Apparently that whole Sacco and Vanzetti thing was as important as that graphic novel I read about the wobblies said, it must have been because Vonnegut constantly references it throughout the book, according to the index at least a dozen times.
Who puts an index in a fictional novel?
Anyways just your typical Vonnegut dark humor, fun but still far more insightful than most people often give him credit for.
On a related note: While reading a previous Vonnegut novel, my coworker picked it up and reading the back-cover where it describes the author as "known for his black humor" he says to me: "I didn't know Kurt Vonnegut was black."
Jailbird is a quintessentially Vonnegutian tale of rich-man guilt and the futility of capitalist America.The story is most effective when dealing with Walter's love interests. Vonnegut captures the intensity and importance of relationships like no other writer, by stretching them throughout life, showing how love endures more than money or career success. He does this, of course, with dollops of sentimental irony.I think "sentimental ironist" isn't a bad summation of Vonnegut's style, though his books always have a unique theme or thread running through them.
i know the the teenager the author mentions in the preface of the book or is it the intro. many i guess think he does not exist, but he does. the author even sent him a leather bound edition of this tome autographed. the book, will like most the this author's works--not my taste. some like this type of pizza, i do not.
If he had sold it for only a tenth of its value, four hundred dollars, say, according to his auditor, and speculated in commodities futures, especially in cocoa at that time, he could have moved his mother and sisters and himself into a Park Avenue condominium and sent himself to Andover and then to Harvard after that.There was Harvard again.All the auditing stories that Einstein heard were told by Americans.
Erinomainen. En ole lukenut Vonnegutia sitten lukiovuosien. Nautin ennen kaikkea tästä tyylistä, joka on samaan aikaan vakava ja humoristinen, painava ja kevyt. Piruparasta tuli jotenkin mieleen Infinite Jest (josta olen lukenut vain vähän alusta). Suomennos oli heikko, täynnä sanasta sanaan käännettyjä anglismeja. Toisaalta nautin siitäkin.
Pasaule tiešām ir maza! Godīgi nopelnītas 5/5 zvaigznes.
Vonnegut seems to be asking why this is the way so many of us choose to learn empathy.Vonnegut also seems to be satirizing himself, and almost everyone else, when he gives Starbuck socialistic tendencies and acquaintances.
Yet some of them are still able to perform the most decent acts of small kindness.The major strength of this book is that it is more narrative in style than many of Vonnegut's other works, and the storyline comes together in a very nice falling action that brings all the separate entities of its main character's life together in a very satisfying and clever way.
Starbuck's life affected by it.I did not enjoy this story or it's characters, but it's Vonnegut.
I have come to the conclusion that this book, perhaps more than most of Vonnegut's other novels works on a myriad of themes: friendship, success, failure, injustice, wrong conviction, prejudice, political internecine fighting, capitalism vs.
other economic/political systems.If a book is making one think about it weeks after one has read it, then the book has made an indelible impact.
Vonnegut above other authors I have read significantly, have not had the impact he has.
There is so much commentary injected in every novel and every short story.
It's about an elderly man who is released from minimum security prison, where he was serving a sentence for white collar crimes he committed while inadvertently involving himself in the Watergate scandal.The book is a great collection of character interactions, as the protagonist reconnects with several people from his past life, as well as people in the new, dispassionate world in which he finds himself.Through the actions and thoughts of the characters, heavy criticism is made of American corporatism.
Parts of the book are dedicated to recounting some of the history of the American labor industry.
Jailbird is a personal favorite of mine, which means that it ranks in the top 5 of Vonnegut's novels.
Here we find Vonnegut at his most grounded and his most overtly political.
These are, of course, relative terms for a writer as inventive and socially conscious as Kurt Vonnegut.
He explores the absurdities of the American education system, socialism, corporate monopolies, class identification, and man's fundamental lack of compassion in the face of money or power.
In Jailbird, as in all of his finest fiction, Vonnegut is charming and witty.
His tone is conversational without sounding banal.
Was waffling between 3 and 4 stars on this, but being a big fan of Vonnegut I went 4. The reason I hesitated is that this did not quite contain that whimsical Vonnegut-ness I am used to. This book was a little more straight forward and written as if it were a memoir penned by the main character. I think if I hadn't read so many of his other works and wasn't influenced by that, this would have been 4 or 5 stars. That said, like most of his works, definitely worth the read.
