https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140097.An_Ice_Cold_Grave
4 stars!  This was the best book in the series so far! Harper Connelly was struck by lightning when she was fifteen. Since then she has been able to locate dead bodies and determine their cause of death. Harper and her step-brother Tolliver travel the US using her ability to make a living. Harper and Tolliver are brought to North Carolina on their most recent job in an effort to locate missing teenage boys. Not only does Harper locate their bodies, but it turns out there is a serial killer in t
This was the best book in the series so far!
Harper and her step-brother Tolliver travel the US using her ability to make a living.
Harper and Tolliver are brought to North Carolina on their most recent job in an effort to locate missing teenage boys.
An Ice Cold Grave  was the best book in the series by far.
But my favorite part was watching Harper and Tolliver FINALLY reveal their attraction to each other.
Plus it was a bonus knowing Tolliver had been way more aware of it than Harper had.
So, be aware that it's disturbing and I definitely reminded myself that these murders were fiction.Okay, now on to the fun stuff!So, we all knew that brother and sister were going to start getting it on at some point, but that they were both in deep denial about their feelings.
So, Tolliver starts changing things up.
look at my "books read" amount)I am going to give you an accurate transcription of some of the things Harper says, so beware.
It's awkward.I'll spoiler it so that my more sensitive viewers won't freak out.(view spoiler)[
She thought the word "phallus"?
I like Charlaine Harris's writing, and she captures small-town southern life very well, but I find this series depressing. Harper's narrative is a perpetually gloomy monotone, reflecting her dismal life, the details of which are repeated ad nauseam in every book. To make matters worse this one is about a serial killer who targets children, and I hate reading about serial killers.... spoilers ...The relationship between Harper and Tolliver is creepy. Even though they're not blood relatives, they lived together as brother and sister too long for it not to feel incestuous.
The third book in the Harper Connelly series, it was a fun, quick read.
Harper was struck by lightening & now can find dead people.
Kind of predictable overall, the details were fun to read.
There are some added twists & turns to the plot that were fun.I'd give this book 4 stars, just because it was such a fun, quick & relaxing read, but Harris just annoys me by constantly bringing up Harper's past.
Not only have we read it in previous books, but also in this one!
Enough already!!!Still, I want to read the next one.
I have to read just one more....
No. No no no no no. This book was bad. The mystery bit and the plotty bits were kind of all right, I would even say this was one of the best in the series if it hadn't been for the amount of creepiness in the book. OMFG DON'T SLEEP WITH YOUR BROTHER YOU MORON. I was so creeped out by the relationship in this book it ruined the entire thing. Okay, so they aren't biological brother and sister, but have been living together as siblings for about 10 years. It was just sooo awkward and sooo creepy. Ruined everything.
I love all 3 books in this series by Charlaine Harris.
Harper, the protag, was hit by lightning as a child and suddenly was able to sense the presence of dead bodies and how they died.She and her "not" brother (her mother married his father) travel the country, helping families find closure when their missing dead are found.Two things I love: the relationship of Harper and Tolliver (her "not" brother )is genuine and sweet.
Ice Cold Grave4 StarsHarper and Tolliver travel to Doraville, North Caroline when they are hired to find a missing teenager.
The subtle chemistry and attraction between the two is apparent from book one and the progression to a sexual relationship is not only natural, but inevitable given that they are not biological siblings and care so deeply for one another.All in all, Ice Cold Grave is a fantastic addition to the series although readers who prefer less gruesome cozies may be disappointed.
I have never read any books in this series or by Charlaine Harris and did not realize that she was the author of the very popular Sookie Stackhouse series until after I started it.
Parts of the story get very grafic and there are sex scenes.
Even though this was a very good book I wish I would have started with the first book because there are definitely parts that I had missed.
Now that I have read this one, however, too much is revealed to start at the beginning so I will just move forward in the series.
Quick review:Cover: Interesting Rating:  NC-17 Steaminess:  SO HOT Thumbs Up:  4Overall: I enjoyed itCharacters: Well DonePlot: First, finally.
Then, there is a serial killer on the loosePage Turner: Yes Series Cont.?
Yes Recommend:  YesBook Boyfriend: ManfredSUMMARY (50 words or less)I feel like I could breathe.
This story finally got somewhere in the romance department.
The mystery in this one sucks with a serial killer on the loose.
I figured out the killer pretty quick once introduced.For a full review and yummy pic, see my blog post at:http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2...Audio ReviewAlyssa Bresnahan did a really good job with this series.
She really brought this series to life for me.
This book was quite a bit darker than the first two, with a serial killer/sexual predator and Harper's horrific discovery of the man's eight victims.
The fact that he's still out there, a member of a small town who could be anyone Harper and Tolliver meet, adds to the tension.
This is also the book in which Harper and Tolliver's relationship goes to a more intimate level (though seriously, did anyone besides those two fail to understand what "in the time of ice" meant?
Duh.) without really overcoming, entirely, the ick factor of Harper still calling him her brother when she forgets herself.
An excellent series; I've enjoyed every book in the Harper Connelly series thus far.
I like the main characters, Harper and Tolliver very much, especially Harper, with her unique talent of being able to sense how people have died.
This story has many twists in it, both crime-wise and relationship-wise and it kept the story interesting and moving along at an excellent pace.
It was nice to see that sometimes Harper's talents (gift) are respected by law enforcement, rather than being treated as strictly ghoulish.
I enjoyed this very much and will have to ensure I get the remaining books in the series.
4.5 stars - great! This third story featuring Harper Connelly and Tolliver Lang is the best one, yet, in my opinion. And not just because I ended it with tears in my eyes. The story was very suspenseful, full of mystery and and danger. And those responsible for the atrocities Harper uncovered managed to stay hidden for a long, long time. (I figured it out a bit sooner than Harper did, but not all that much sooner. I just realized the significance of what a certain person said right away, while
(hide spoiler)] I had been suspecting that Tolliver (view spoiler)[had feelings not of a brotherly-sort toward Harper almost from the beginning, from things he said and how he behaved.
:-(The potential continuity issue that I was actually referring to in my status update was the fact that in this book, Harper mentions that Cameron was her older sister (p.63) who was taken when she was eighteen (p.65).
I should say a few words on how this story ends:Harper (view spoiler)[is in the hospital again, to recover from the beating she received by the second killer, and she and Tolliver are talking after Twyla made her goodbyes.
To tell the truth, it was a bit sickening at times and I am not easily sickened, but I think my discomfort was partly because I just hadn't expected the violence given the past books.
For one thing, Harper's realisation that she loved him in the second book (it was obvious from the start given how she thought about his other women) primed me and made it obvious that something was going to have to happen.
I desperately want to read more of Harper Connelly, but I also love, love, LOVE the Southern Vampire Mysteries...
Now I'm torn about reading it, knowing it will be the last.
I can understand why people didn't like that aspect of this book: I've seen it coming, and was actually quite hopeful about it, but I don't see why after two books suddenly there has to be a bunch of explicit (if somewhat mechanical) sex.
I remember the sex in the first book being a lot less graphic, and I'd rather it stuck like that.Still, it's a pretty enjoyable book for what it is, if you're not looking for too deep and involving a read.
The third in this series about Harper Connolly, who can detect corpses, continues with her first serial killer case.
The limitations of her ability, as always, make it hard for her to help figure out "who done it," especially when all she wants to do is leave Doraville.
The denoument is excellently scary and dangerous (though I figured out the threat a bit faster than Harper did).
Still a great series and a good book - including appearances by the wacky (and sometimes scarily accurate) seeress and her weird-looking son, and events in which minor characters get to play important roles too.
Arriving in a small town in North Carolina to find a missing boy, Harper instead finds eight, and the hunt for a serial killer is on. When Harper is attacked, she and her stepbrother Tolliver are stuck in town, and are drawn into the mystery of who could be killing these boys.This one was slightly more interesting, but with a darker twist. Things are a little hard to follow, like usual. The romance between Harper and Tolliver feels slightly skeevy.
I really enjoy books written by Charlaine Harris. This series was not quite as good as the Sookie Stackhouse series, but I still liked it.
This series is taking a weird turn, just like her Lily Bard series, which I abandoned after book 2.
I like Harris for her stories set in small towns, with colorful characters, with families full of dark secrets and back stories.
"An Ice Cold Grave" is just too dark for my taste - mass graves, serial killers, teenage sociopath torturing animals...
I might have been OK with the entire thing if their relationship was portrayed as tender and romantic, but no - it is too lustful and outright gross at times.
Harris definitely pushes the envelope here - she makes these scenes risque and rather unsavory and dirty.
Love this book. Can't wait to start the next one. I listened to the audiobook of this and the narrator does a superb job with this series.
My second read/listen - picked up in audible sale. Made a long car ride go quickly. I was surprised that I liked all in the series - 4 stars
Wieder einmal ein spannender Fall für Harper Connelly und ihren Stiefbruder Tolliver.
Charlaine Harris überzeugt mich mit ihren Geschichten und den darin enthaltenen Beschreibungen von Kleinstädten und deren Bewohnern jedesmal aufs Neue.
Immer wieder kommt man mit den beiden Protagonisten an neue Orte, lernt dort, genau wie die beiden, neue Umgebungen und Menschen, sowie manchmal auch deren finsterste Seiten kennen.Ich mochte es sehr, dass die Geschichte düsterer und auch brutaler war als die vorherigen Bände.
Allerdings habe ich für mich selbst noch nicht entschieden ob die Entwicklung zwischen den Geschwistern ein Geniestreich oder doch einfach nur verstörend und kaputt ist.
Like I said in my review of Grave Surprise, shit gets weird in this installment of the Harper Connelly books, and I'm sorry to say that my view on it is absolutely and completely coloured by having already read the fourth book in the series, Grave Secret.
By this time I know that Harper and Tolliver are going to be trapped in this town until the mystery is solved, since that is the formula of the other books, so although I didn't appreciate yet another police unit telling them not to leave town until Harris's plot had a chance to play out, at this point I'm willing to go along for the ride.
(It's the multiple POV's that give me pause - Manfred is awesome and deserves star status).This is very much a penultimate book - a lot is going on, it's exciting and terrifying and quite dark.
Harper is called in to locate a missing boy(s) but it's actually a whole disturbing serial killer torture thing in this village (or whatever Americans call it, I've forgotten, it seemed village size in writing).
Then there's the culmination of Harper and Tolliver's relationship, practically anti-climactic but necessary; not to mention Zylda and Manfred's colourful presence.
Third book of the series: so far the same as the others, they go to do a job, for some reason they always seem to get hassled by the law, or forced to stay there longer "just in case"...Just in case what?
I especially didn't like the sheriff in this book.
The blossoming relationship between Harper & Tolliver shouldn't be a surprise by anyone, book 2 hit on it a bit.
However, I did think the sex scene was awkwardly told.Speaking of Harper & Tolliver, WHATS WITH THE NAMES IN THIS BOOK???
Does she actually know people with these names or make them up?
Harper and Tolliver's undefinable relationship really makes it as intriguing and different as anything else I've read, and I just loved not quite knowing where it was taking them.
How many serial killers do you know that are women?) completely went off the rails in the end.
And again, it's plausible that Harper would be in danger because she's a smart cookie and can figure things out.
REALLY irritated that i have to wait until tomorrow to pick #4 up from the library, but that's probably a good thing...I really need to finish up The Physick Book of Deliverance Dane for Thursday's book club!
This book was the most interesting out of the first three books in the series.
I found it interesting trying to determine which character was responsible for the horrible acts of crime.
Harper and Tolliver develop into a more romantic relationship in this book.
Even though the idea is a bit incestuous considering they were raised as siblings, I could see that their relationship was heading it this direction and I like them developing into a deeper relationship.
I am interested in seeing how their relationship develops in the next series book.
Third Harper Connelly mystery in the series finds the psychic sleuth facing her most heartbreaking job so far.
She is hired to locate the body of a missing teen aged boy.
She not only finds the body of this boy it is in a yard of a vacant house surrounded by the bodies of seven other runaway boys.
After Harper locates the eight bodies, much to the surprise of skeptical Sheriff Sandra Rockwell, Harper is attacked.
The cold cases attract media attention as well as Harper's friends, ailing psychic Xylda Bernardo and her grandson, Manfred who stumble upon another gruesome discovery.
Finally!!!!
I was waiting for it...and it happened!
I'm glad I didn't have to wait much longer or it would've been another Babe/Cupcake and I don't think I could handle another of those.
I loved this.
Chocked full of mystery, some hard emotions, good steamy scene, and plenty of page-turning and breath-holding.
Another tip of the tongue feeling induced book that made me thunk my head, but not too hard.
I can't wait to read the next book.
I loved the characters.
Poor Xylda.
She was good, if a little loopy.
So far, I wouldn't mind reading this series again.
I love what Charlaine has done with Harper Connelly ... she's a cautious character, guarded, and unexpected at every turn. Harper's ability -- or disability -- is that she can find dead bodies, and see how they died. But Harper approaches it as a business, rather than a charitable enterprise, and it's fascinating how that changes the attitudes of others to what she does.I thought this book was a tour de force -- chilling, thrilling, perfectly paced and utterly convincing. This is a different kind of supernatural thriller, and I can't recommend it enough.
Frissons d'outre-tombe fut donc encore une assez bonne lecture mais qui ne surpasse pas les deux premiers tomes de la série et auquel il manque encore beaucoup de densité sur certains points pour en faire plus qu'un assez bon récit.
De plus, le début de ce troisième tome n'a pas seulement pour vocation de nous introduire une nouvelle enquête mais aussi de nous faire assimiler les changements qui interviennent, petit à petit, dans la vie de Harper et Tolliver, et qui semblent prendre de plus en plus de place dans le récit.
