https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/843433.Philosophy
Ayn Rand was a principled philosopher in the tradition of Aristotle- who realized that human beings are ends in themselves and can only flourish by being free to act according to the dictates of reason and conscience.
She was opposed to coercion in all forms, and as such Ayn Rand was an optimist and a champion of human dignity.
Unlike most modern intellectuals, Ayn Rand realized that pure capitalism is good and natural and right.
In fact, her world is one of human flourishing and human dignity where men are free to participate in their own creation- to become persons of character, worthy of love, confident in their own human goodness.
This book changed my life!
Objectivism, according to Miss Rand is: "the concept of man as a heroic being, with his own happiness as the moral purpose of his life, with productive achievement as his noblest activity, and reason as his only absolute."Rand's ability to reduce the most complex of issues to simple-to-understand fundamentals is unparalleled in history, except for perhaps, Aristotle.This particular book focuses on proving the crucial need of philosophy in everyone’s lives, of the necessity of a reality-based philosophy knowable by reason, and that regardless of whether or not one has a conscious philosophy that everyone operates by some kind of philosophy.
Reading this book was the most important thing I’ve ever done, and I can’t recommend it more highly.
Do not proselytize indiscriminately, do not force discussions and arguments on those who are not interested or on those who are not willing to argue it is not your job to save everyone's soul.
If you do the things that are in your power you will not feel guilty about not doing somehow, the things that are not.
Above all do not join the wrong ideological groups or movements in order too do something..."View some related articles here: https://formuchdeliberation.wordpress...
No small contribution to philosophy; in fact, no contribution whatsoever.(It does get better by the end, though, and there are a couple of good essays between long, uninteresting diatribes against Kant, Hegel, American pragmatism and every other kind of philosophy not written by Ms. Rand herself.)PS.
This book, an amateur's scribbles on philosophy, is perhaps her weakest, because she doesn't understand any other philosopher except herself: she doesn't, for example, have a clue of Kant's philosophy, American pragmatism - or even of her only philosophical hero's, Aristotle's, philosophy, beyond a few stale slogans.
(We are given a by-the-bye regarding “the military-industrial complex--which is a myth” (9).) Startling, of course, that the US did not benefit from the world wars, but we’re definitely in an alternate reality with the objection that the US never engaged in military conquest.We are told that “America is the living refutation of a Kantian universe” (9), which is why people hate it (as opposed to “love for communism.”) Cute, no?
She attempts to raise questions that she apparently regards as dispositive: “The intellectual standard which is here set up to rule an individual’s mind […] is the judgment of an average person applying community standards” (174), which is language of First Amendment case law for obscenity--except it is specifically not to rule the mind, but to rule publication.
The bottom line is, we all live by a philosophy- whether or not we're aware of it. This book shows you why it's so important to know what kind of philosophy you're living and making choices by, and makes one aware of how their pattern of coming to conclusions affects everything about their being. A must read for anyone interested in understanding their inner workings better.
Easily the worst book I have read thus far by Rand.
I was also annoyed to see Rand besmirches her former influence Friedrich Nietzsche in "The Virtue of Selfishness." Come on Ayn, did you really think you could compare with a philosopher such as Nietzsche?!?"Philosophy: Who Needs It" claims to be a book that is used to help people find what philosophy they should follow.
I found the book to be Ayn Rand's infamous preaching on overload.
Of course, Rand spends a good part of the book criticizing Kant among other thing.
Nope.
just not going to happen.The only people I can see this book appealing to are one's with the same psychopathic tendencies and Rand herself.This book would resonate with people looking for a way to make selfishness justifiable in every aspect of life, for those who have a complete lack of empathy and think compassion an unnecessary weakness...
or those who have no idea what either of those actually are.This was just too depressing to finish, especially when I realised there is a whole mess of people who follow this way of life like a religion.maybe one day, for purely academic purposes, I'll return to it...
While this book is a great reference to understanding Ayn Rand's philosophy, Objectivism, its true value is in explaining what philosophy is and why it's important. An extremely important lesson in today's world, especially when so many discussions are fruitless exchanges of opinion, without knowing - let alone questioning - basic philosophical assumptions.
Philosophy: Who Needs It is a collection of essays by Ayn Rand.
In them, she summarizes her philosophical views and argues for rationality and unbiased observation, and brings up her objectivism philosophy.
She argues that we should understand philosophy better to understand better how we all use it in our lives even in things like proverbs.I agree with Ayn Rand on the importance of philosophy, using rationality, and using an objective view of the world.
Yes, follow Ayn Rand and read philosophy even those she despised like Rawls, Aristoteles, and Kant and form your own mind.
На мен лично ми бе изключително трудно – докато оформях начина си на мислене, трябваше практически сам да измислям базисната постановка на идеите, в които вярвам, тъй като не я откривах в нито една философска книга, в нито една лекция по философия, в които се разискват категоричния императив и производните му налудничави идеи за нищожността на индивида, за ноумена.Рационалния собствен интерес, отхвърляне на понятието „дълг“, свободата на личността като висша ценност – тези неща са анатема за мейнстрийм философията днес и ги открих единствено при Аристотел, а преди няколко години буквално зинах от изумление, четейки някакви откъси от Айн Ранд, защото тя буквално повтаряше моите мисли и описваше моите морални търсения, изхождайки от него.Именно за това търсене на философията на свободата е книгата „Философията – кому е нужна“ – сборник с есета на Айн Ранд.
Rand's furious rhetoric speaks so loud that her message gets overshadowed; I get the impression that if Rand was alive today, her emails would be full of angry CAPITAL LETTERS to show how FURIOUS she is that people were too stupid to see the world the way she does.Her treatment of 18th-c.
philosopher Emanuel Kant is an example of her style.
Having finished it, Rand seems to me a mix of Nietzsche and Rush Limbaugh.Every chapter she rants against altruism i.e the Christian ethic, thinking its the root of all evil, stunting civilization and the brain.
Rush Limbaugh at least says he is only right 98.8% of the time, Ayn Rand would not even humble herself with that 1.2% of error, she could make it on the short list of stuck up, full of themselves people.But with all that aside, I loved what she shared on politics, she indeed was a genius, there is no doubt about that
While my own knowledge of philosophy is still very sketchy at best, I did find this slim volume to be a somewhat useful supplement to her other titles that I’ve read, though don’t feel as if this collection of essays covered any fresh ground.She examines why we need philosophy (of course we do) and the realisation that this is an integral part of our existence if we are to live rational, moral lives.
She makes a big deal about freedom, and personal freedom to think and trade as one wishes without feeling ashamed of one’s strengths.
In the talk, which Ayn Rand gave to West Point's graduating class of '74, she clarifies the need for people to have a personal philosophy, lest the be torn aside by the world.
It seems like Ayn is upset with the current state of the world in '74 and has given Kant the role of whipping-boy for all the failures that she's attributed to the baby-boomers.
That much aside, I can agree with her on the point that to evade any personal philosophy is to let yourself run emotionally naked through a world that only seeks to satisfy our most base needs and urges.
Rand made altruism the root of all evil in the existing world and that was a radical approach and the thoughts are put so very objectively that I could not help but heed to her words in the book.The book begins with the chapter "Philosophy: Who Needs It" and in this, she strongly puts the need of Philosophy and also giving examples that everyone indeed has a certain philosophy of living that makes his/her own way of life.
It was interesting to see how current still are Rand's concerns. The book also opened the door of other authors who she critique. Important to understand the roots of the opposite views.Since the book is a collection of essays it is easy to read and reflect one at a time.In the end the battle for freedom is an intellectual battle. Lots has been said about other sciences yet the enemies of freedom get stronger under the shade of indifference and ignorance. "Philosophy Who needs it" is an invitation to be active learner and defender of freedom.
Have you read and studied philosophy in the past and still not learned much of how it applies to life or for that matter, remember much of anything related to philosophy save for some worn out names? This is the book on philosophy that reviews what it is and why we need it in every aspect of our lives.
Until I began reading Rand's book I thought I had a good grasp on my volcabulary but her book has proven me wrong.
I have paused my reading and will do it on my computer as it will enable me to immediatley research some of the words she used that frankly I had never heard of before let alone understand their meaning.
As such the book does NOT flow for me and I therefore find it at times difficult to read.If you can get an idea across in 10 words, why use 100 to do so.
This is an excellent work by Ayn Rand. Not only is it about philosophy, it's primarily about why philosophy is important. She highlights instances in American life that need addressing with rational philosophy. She also predicts the rise of a dictator in the coming decades (Donald Trump?). Who knows, but I'm frightened enough to become more active in fighting those who want to destroy man's mind.
While this doesn't necessarily acheive the same level as the novels, and at times is predictable, it does encourage one to think about the facets of any political belief. A reccomended next step is Walter Block's "Defending the Undefendable" (available as a free pdf on the Mises Institute website).
hard to track.
I rate it only two stars because it was just more of the same sort of thing to be found in her other books; it's not a necessary addition to her works.
I really enjoyed this book. However, if someone is new to Rand's writings, I would recommend some of her other works as this book tends to go a little deeper on her philosophy.
Ayn Rand was an amazing thinker, and I am glad to have read this book! Awesome!
"Can't Say Enough! IF You Want To "Understand The World", THEN This Is An Unprecedented Opportunity"!"
But I would still want to believe that faith and philosophy could still be correlated with one another.
Doing something without a purpose and goal is…blind.Much of what Rand had explained in this book appeal so much to my mind and personal conviction, although there are some that I have yet to grasp (or probably will never grasp), it’s a book that I urge anyone who is interested in it to think about it twice or thrice about whatever statements that come across.I know I’m going to have a look at this book again in the future.
However, the socialists/communists--which are dressed up in the Green movement--instead confuse the public through evasions, contradictory statements, censorship, brainwashing them through the government-run school system, in order to get the public to subscribe to these views.What I liked most in particular is Ayn Rand's statement that one has a right to live for one's own sake--and no one else.
Rand's view is that capitalism and individualism must be argued on a moral basis, not on an economic one.
Instead, Ayn Rand's view is that, regardless of the economics, one has a right to live for their own sake, and for the sake of others.
She claims that philosophy is king -- conceptualization is necessary for living a full life, and yet her insistence on Objectivism, that Truth can be calibrated to through your raw senses is absolutely incoherent.Hence we have anti-conceptualization at the heart of Rand's conceptual philosophy.What I find to be of interest is that despite her rigidity she makes fairly adequate characterizations of other's philosophies, hypocrisies and thoughts...
This led her to babble, which was annoying and jarring because her dogma broke the flow of her essays.In a way, reading Rand is like watching a bad movie.
In "Philosophy: Who Needs It," Ayn Rand, through a collection of some of her lectures and essays which were compiled posthumously, revisits a lot of her objectivist philosophy that is more eloquently outlined in her book The Virtue of Selfishness.
Since a lot of this book is just re-hashed objectivism, if one has already read her other works which make her philosophy very clear such as The Virtue of Selfishness and Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal, this book would still be worth the purchase for the last essay alone, entitled "Don't Let It Go." A clarion call to Americans, who value individualism, reason, and integrity, to be the change, lest our ominous future of chaos and tyranny befall us before it's too late.-Brent McCulley (10/4/13)
