https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760924.Breath_of_Scandal
This books was written 23 years ago. Can you tell? I certainly hope that the attitudes of Southern “gentlemen” have changed in 23 years. They come across as totally sexist and racist….. she portrays them really well. You have to hate them. His bearded face never smiled … he was wearing clothes similar to those he had worn yesterday and the day before …. Old Levi’s, a faded top, boots and work gloves …. She was able to see that sweat had dampened his dense chest hair and and formed a triangle in
I don’t think they are trying to find happiness, Dillon, especially, he just wants to live his life not caring.
Dillon knows something has happened in Jade’s past but she won’t tell him.
When he did, every other thought flew right out of his head… the tip of his tongue flicked across her lips, then he pressed it into her mouth…He exercised the technique he had mastered years ago and slowly made love to her mouth.
The story takes Jade back to Palmetto to extract revenge for a tragedy that happened eighteen years previously.
Yet another great book from Sandra Brown! I just have to say that this is the first book I have read by her that I wholeheartedly HATED one of the characters. Neal Patchett was such a bastard along with his two little puppets Lamar and Hutch.Full review to come.
4.5 StarsBreath of Scandal was a sweeping tale of broken dreams, shattered hearts, and revenge!
At age eighteen she had a bright future ahead: about to graduate high school and looking forward to attending college on a full scholarship with the love of her life by her side.
Instead, Jade must pick up the pieces and move on, for now… Jade spends years preparing for revenge, yet at the same time she doesn’t allow bitterness to poison her life.
Plagued by guilt, Dillon goes through the motions, barely living, but things change when Jade Sperry walks into his life.
One of my all time favorite books!!
That said, once I settled into listening to this book, Ms. Brown fully transported me to a time and place that fortunately I never had to live through myself (the prejudiced and chauvinistic society that ruled small towns in the deep South in the 1970s and 1980s); and in the end, for those that are brave enough to follow this story to its conclusion, Ms. Brown blesses her listeners with a very powerful message of vindication and empowerment.The backdrop of this story will tear your heart apart.
reread/br with Amanda: 3.5-starsFYI, the first half of the book was drown by the tragic events that the MCs went through. Trigger warning: (view spoiler)[ gang rape, suicide, tragic deaths, topic of abortion (hide spoiler)]first read 01/2016: 4-starsIs it a sad story? Yes.The blurb seems to suggest this is Jade’s story, but I find Dillon’s backstory equally compelling. Breath of Scandal is an older Brown’s book that conveyed the difficulties of combating corruption, bigotry and prejudice, and mo
reread/br with Amanda: 3.5-starsFYI, the first half of the book was drown by the tragic events that the MCs went through. Trigger warning: (view spoiler)[ gang rape, suicide, tragic deaths, topic of abortion  (hide spoiler)]first read 01/2016: 4-starsIs it a sad story? Yes.The blurb seems to suggest this is Jade’s story, but I find Dillon’s backstory equally compelling. Breath of Scandal is an older Brown’s book that conveyed the difficulties of combating corruption, bigotry and prejudice, and most importantly, told a heartfelt, victorious story of getting a second chance at life and love.HEA? (view spoiler)[ YES!  (hide spoiler)]
Those poor books look now like they’ve been through a war, this is how many times I’ve read them, beginning to end or only some passages I loved the most.
English version, Romanian version, audio book version, just name it, I’ve been through it.I would be so pleased if somebody would recommend me some other nineties romances, similar to Sandra Brown’s Slow Heat in Heaven, Breath of Scandal, French Silk, Where There’s Smoke, 22 Indigo Place etc etc.
4.5 StarsVery emotional story......Spent the first half of the book wiping tears away and trying to control a few sobs and the second half of the book fist pumping and and shouting the ocassional 'YES'
I have not been this emotionally moved by a story in a long time.
Jade automatically appeals to me as a character because whilst painted as a popular and beautiful girl she is not the stereotype, in that she is in a deeply loving relationship with Gary, a poor farmer and is intelligent and driven.
Seeing her journey as a character and her ability to move past her dark past and triumph against great adversity definitely moved me as a reader.
Similarily Burke is equally traumatised by a tragic past and I love how Brown forms a story in which both characters are finally able to find happiness within each other.
This is Sandra Brown at her best.
Dear lord .....the beginning of this book was so heartbreaking and depressing. This was a story of one woman's mission to execute revenge(which was much deserved) and how she was able to heal during the process. The plot was fast paced and exciting. The characters were solid and likeable. Very well written. I'll definitely check out more of this writers work.
The thing is, her Mother doesn't approve of her choice, she wants her to marry someone more prominent in society and the home town they live, someone with prestige and money.
This is remembered in the next few chapters when all hell breaks loose and Jade arrives at the hospital, bloodied, torn and been ganged raped by the self same lads.Without giving the story away, things are 'owned' by a certain person who heads the Police procedure which makes it very uncomfortable for Jade's Mother and others around this crime.Mouths are shut.
It's very rare that I re-read books.
I mean where's the suspense in a book when you already know the ending?
I'd honestly forgotten the brutal rawness of this story, It's far, far from a light read and is definitely one of the darker books I've read.
If rape and/or suicide (not the rape victim) is a trigger for you - approach this story with caution.
If you like a book that grabs you from the get-go, and never let's up, perhaps its time to check this one out.
Figuring someone who's written as many books as she has, she must be quite the author and I've been missing out for some time now.So, one night I decided to give Sandra Brown's Breath of Scandal a go and was immediately hooked.
Sandra Brown cleverly balances the thrilling story of revenge with the gushy romance moments in a way that didn't make me want to barf.
Essentially, Breath of Scandal was an awesome introduction to this author, Sandra Brown.
But when her plea for justice was ignored, Jade vowed to one day return to the town that betrayed her, and find the peace she will never again know until her attackers suffered as much as she did that night.Fourteen years on and Jade is a very successful woman.
And as she comes close to the justice that was denied her once, it seems that fate is not only granting her that one wish, but also giving her another chance at love in the form of Dillon Burke, the man she hired to complete the project.BREATH OF SCANDAL is an intriguing and heartwrenching tale about a young girl's shattered dreams and her fight for survival.
This was the very first romance/suspense book I had ever read. And I loved it.It made me want to continue reading romance and so I have almost all of Sandra's books now.Some are better than others but I enjoy them all and this one started it all for me.Now I write romance and am so grateful for ever finding this book.This was an awesome story of first love, betrayal, hurt and, most importantly, vengeance. I love Jade. She is a strong woman and even at the tender age of fourteen I admired her and her courage. Loved it.Respect, Sandra <3
On sale for $2.49. Audible on sale too for $2.99. Thought I'd give this author a try. The romance develops slowly, but the story is very intense and the audio by Dick Hill is very good. I love his male voices, the female lead was a bit to breathy & soft...but all in all an excellent audio book.
I had ordered a book by the same title by another author, which was a historical, which is my usual preference.
I don't usually like contemporaries, but when I read the back cover, I was intrigued enough to read on.
It's not the most morally correct book I've ever read, but it's one of the most satisfying.
(hide spoiler)]Read this one.
Even if you hate contemporaries, even if you hate books involving rape.
I'll be looking into more of Sandra Brown's books, even if she doesn't write historicals.
Knjiga je odlična kao i sve Sandrine. Priča je zanimljiva i jaka, ali je meni teško pala. Stvarno mi je bilo mučno na samom početku pa sam se razvlačila sa čitanjem skoro dva meseca. Sandra je u ovoj knjizi bila baš okrutna prema oba glavna junaka, što me je stvarno iznenadilo. Kad god sam pomislila da je kraj sa lošim događajima, eto ti novog šoka. No, uprkos svim lošim stvarima koje su im se dogodile njih dvoje su se našli i izlečili jedno drugo. Dobili su svoj srećan kraj.
I think this is my favourite Sandra Brown so far. I really enjoyed this one, except for that bit at about 25% that knocked the wind out of me and made me cry. Strong heroine and enjoyable story of revenge. Couldn't put it down.
4,5 StarsInkvotaryThis was great. Sandra Brown wrote with Breath of Scandal a fantastic story about revenge, hate and rape. A Dixieland drama with two great main figures and the beautiful landscape of South Carolina wrapped up in a great Oscar worthy novel.
f you are in the mood for some old school romance with a side of revenge, you will love Breath of Scandal!!
Although things were a bit outdated, I couldn't help but love Jade Sperry -- she is a self-made woman, an amazing mother but she is also not over her past, which is completely understandable given what happened to her.
The book really was more about revenge rather romance but there was a slow build that made the eventual romance worth every page.
Rather, she saw the tall grass swaying in coastal marshes.
This is a big book - but it didn't feel too long or overwrought or ridiculous or unnecessary.
Jade is a nice girl in a small Southern town.
Three someones do something awful to her, and even when Jade does the right thing there's no justice.
These young men have power, and Jade does not.
I wasn't expecting that, and when it appeared i was a little confused.)Jade is a wonderful character - realistic and likable throughout the story.
It wasn't preachy or pushy.
This book was sans-eyeroll the entire time.
I'm so excited to check out more of her books.
#140 for 2018Genre: Suspense Romance
For all you Sandra Brown fans, if you missed BREATH OF SCANDAL, the first time around, never fear- NOW available, in kindle format, a page-turner!
Everything leads up to her return to her southern small minded hometown of Palmetto, SC for a well-planned attack, on the three boys who raped her when she was in high school; as well as those covering up the crime, destroying her innocence and her future life with high school boyfriend, Neal.It has been fourteen years  since the tragedy, and Jade has not forgotten how she was violated.
(loved his character)Jade and Dillon meet in a business environment.
I really felt ripped off reading this because it went on and on and on and freaking on through time and space and irrelevant rubbish like Hank...At one point I skipped ahead ten chapters and picked up the story at the end and still didn't miss anything ....
That is this book.Honestly you could have removed five hundred pages and still had the same emotions etc the whole middle section could have been removed, in fact you could have skipped everything from the rape and picked up with her successful again in the future and it wouldn't have taken anything from the body of the story
The book flip-flops between two characters, Jade Sperry and Dylan Burke.
Although you get mostly Jade's story in the beginning and there's no mention of Burke in the book blurb, so I was like "Who is this guy?" when his story began.
Basically, the incident is swept under the rug and Jade is then shunned from high school because she was with a really nice guy, Gary.
Jade meets Burke and he ultimately becomes involved.
His character and the total injustice that happened to Jade is almost why I stopped reading this book.
In 1976, Jade Sperry's innocence and hope for the future was taken away violently and tragically.
15 years later, she's returned to the small Southern town she called home so long ago.
Ready to face the scandal her name was attached to, and even more so, ready for redemption and revenge against those who attempted to plan her future for her.
Also had to remind myself that parts of this book was based in the 70's, in a small southern town where racism was an all day occurrence and is still very much alive everywhere.
3.5 STARS - I ENJOYED IT A LOTAUDIOBOOKSeriously, the first 1/3 or so of this book was really hard to listen to. I was so frustrated with the unfairness of how Jade was treated. This, however, is a sign of a good book. I was really into the story but by the last 1/3 of the book things had slowed down and became much more predictable and typical of a contemporary romance. I would say 4 stars for the beginning and 3 stars for the ending so averaging 3.5 stars.
3,5, tirando a 4
The story is heartbreaking and hopeful. I think the ending was too rushed though. Would totally recommend this!
