https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41913.The_Children_of_Men
He is keeping a journal to record the last half of his life and lives a solitary existence until he meets Julian and a small group of people who desire to revolt against the dictatorship of England, whose leader happens to be Theo’s cousin Xan. When I first read this book, I found the characters largely bland and uninteresting and much preferred the second half when Theo and the five revolutionaries were on the run.Now, I found I rather enjoyed reading about Theo’s childhood and relationship with Xan, his failed marriage, the people he encounters, his feelings about the events going on around him, and the gradual process of his falling in love.
There's nothing like a vivid tale of the world ending to truly set me at my ease.
I am happy to report that The Children of Men does at times rise to that exalted level.
Here is a world in which men have gone sterile.
The first half is all clandestine meetings of the dissidents and background into Theo's boyhood relationship to Xan. Then it turns into a road story not without parallels, though fleeting, to Cormac McCarthy's The Road.
Though, it should be emphasized, this is not a post-apocalyptic world going-out-with-a-bang novel, like The Road, but rather a civilization fizzling-out-with-a-whimper story.
D. James's trademark suspense, insightful characterization, and riveting storytelling"...I have wanted to read this book for a long time.
As a dystopia, the world that James created is plausible, perhaps even likely, should the events that changed the world come about in our own reality.
I didn't care about the fact that the whole world was dying because I didn't give a shit that the individuals shown in the book were dying.
Julian was maybe the only exception, but despite her desire to change things and do something better for the world, I still just didn't care.
Seriously, fucking wow, were Theo's diary entries duller than shit.
Re-read for post-apocalyptic book club.I liked this book better, the second time around.
The upheaval of the world's current situation has allowed the Warden, Xan, to seize absolute power.
The Warden is in love with power, and not amenable to making any significant changes.But then, a shocking revelation is made: the intriguing dissident is pregnant.Where the book takes it from here is into a complex and insightful exploration of human dynamics.
It's full of religious allegory, but certainly does not demand that the reader have 'faith' in order to appreciate its depiction of how religious people might behave in the given situation.
<--- This is me flirting extremely badly.I wish I would have ended up liking The Children of Men a lot more than I did.
The thought-process was quite solid, I felt for a long time it to be exploring all sides of our society, our ways and morals, which could easily lead to the outcomes this book deals with.
It was an interesting mix of each, but eventually such a bore festival that took a lot of dedication to go through with.P.D. James made an interesting choice to tell this story through characters that were hard to feel, and even harder to like.
I didn't care to bring children into this world, and at the time, I hated the world pretty much entirely, so I got struck against the back of my head after reading this and I haven't really been the same, since.The novel took me on a very disturbing ride with the ultimate death of humanity by way of sterility.
The most powerful aspect of the novel was the people's reactions, how their worldviews veered off in strange ways.Suicides were all very well and obvious, but I think I enjoyed the other paths the mind took in reaction.I still can't believe that the novel had the effect of changing my mind about my life.
"Early this morning, 1 January 2021, three minutes after midnight, the last human being to be born on earth was killed in a pub brawl in a suburb of Buenos Aires, aged twenty-five years, two months and twelve days." Despite a riveting premise, I did not enjoy this novel at all.Children of Men struggled to engage me due to an opening act that lasted for the entirety of book 1 ("The Omega"), an unlikeable protagonist and confused thematic messaging. THE PLOT "We are outraged and demoralized less
Despite a riveting premise, I did not enjoy this novel at all.Children of Men struggled to engage me due to an opening act that lasted for the entirety of book 1 ("The Omega"), an unlikeable protagonist and confused thematic messaging.
The failure of the novel to properly identify the central plot question results in meandering and self indulgent story telling.
However, rather then end the novel on this hopeful note James has Theo take control of the country and murder his cousin.
It felt like Children of Men was telling two oxymoronic stories.
In a novel that centred on fertility, James managed to make every female character ridiculous.
3.75* Very odd what happens in a world without children's voices .
Don't get me wrong, I like Clive Owen, and the 2006 movie is not too shabby but it does not have much to do with the original text apart from the basic premise; and Theo the protagonist of the movie is the polar opposite of the novel’s character.
When I heard that they were filming Children of Men I was intrigued though, I did not expect Ms. James to write a science fiction book worth filming, I thought she was one of those mainstream authors who just want to take a stab at sci-fi without really understanding the genre.
BUT, the secretive and rather sinister council keeps a firm grip on everything, regulating the lives and even the deaths of all citizens.James tells her tale with third person narration and the use of her main character's journal entries.
They approach Theo and ask for his help in essentially overthrowing the council.
(view spoiler)[How very, very sad that the big MIRACLE that should bring hope to all mankind will in all likelihood lead to more horrific regulations from the all-seeing council.
Post Apocalyptic, Dystopian, Depressing.It describes a hopeless, sterile future.No more children, no more light, no more expectations.But what if there is a ray of light?
Even if what you feel is pain, only let yourself feel.” When I read Dystopian fiction, I want to read about hope and expectations that oppose the darkness.
This is one of the darknest Dystopian books that I have ever read, but it can certainly change the way you think and it can definitely convince you to reevaluate your life and your aims.I want to fight for a better future.
I want my children and my children's children to fight for a better future.
I was disappointed by the film, finding myself unable to muster sympathy for the characters, but I was intrigued by the basic plot and so ventured out to explore the novel.
The book moved quickly, especially the second half, which allowed me to follow its absurd plotline through to its disappointing completion - the story was mostly well-written, save for moments of impending excitement that would be introduced with the sentence, "And then it happened." I commend James for her imagination; the basic premise is indeed quite intriguing.
It's just that the author had the wrong focus.The novel is set in a near future where humanity has lost the ability to have children.
Along the way, Theo discovers one of the radicals is pregnant with the first unborn child in decades.I know it's unfair to compare a novel is to a movie, but I thought the movie's focus on the implications of a world without children worked well.
Honestly, I think P.D. James could have cut out the sterility angle of the novel, and ended up with the same book.That's not to say it was entirely ignored.
The novel does delve deeper into the building of the childless world.
Wild tribes of young people having returned to the untamed lure of the forest; machinations surrounding control of the lone and miraculous pregnancy discovered amidst an island of infertility; the cousin-vs-cousin showdown with a crying baby - the noisome sound of the future awakening from a terrifying final sleep - providing the musical score; James handles it all with a professional and assured aplomb.
3,5 καλο αλλα ποτε δεν τρελενομουν γι'αυτην Τζεημς ...
P.D. James' book lacks the action and excitement of the film version and P.D. James does go on about things like the decor of Theo's house and the political makeup of her futuristic England.
But I enjoyed the rendering of a world in which the last baby was born 25 years ago.The book did hit home for me as the last of the Omega generation was born about the same time as my 12 year old daughter.
I found myself imagining what it would be like bringing up the last of the race, and the heartbreak of knowing that with every milestone my daughter reached, that would be the last time ever.
This is perhaps the only film from the past decade which I can watch eight plus times within a year.
Compulsively rewatchable.
Perhaps one of the greatest movies ever made.
But you mustmustmustmust watch this.
It is unbelievably fantastic.
Reallyreallyreally great.
My enthusiasm is earnest and I won't use the required umpteen !'s required to indicate the urgency with which you must watch this beautiful, hopeful film.
[and don't miss Zizek's five minute commentary]The film is so good that I don't give a shit about the book which may well have its merits but can't be as good of a book qua book as the film is qua film.
Please go watch this now.
However, I have a feeling the story & the message behind it will stick with me a VERY LONG time.
I found it interesting that when the births in the story started to slow people thought it was a good thing, overpopulation and all.
But as I think about the ideas contained within it I feel the book deserves a much higher rating.
My feelings on this book morphed as I wrote the review to be honest.
I wasn’t necessarily moved by the words, prose, or story-telling as much as the thoughts, feeling, fears & ideas it produced within me while reflecting upon it.
Nel mio caso si tratta della necessità di rivivere una paura: anestetizzandola, tenendola a bada, circoscrivendola alle pagine di un romanzo.Non sono una buona lettrice di gialli quindi non conosco l'opera di P.D. James specializzata in questo genere; sono stata, invece, attratta da questa che è considerata un'anomalia nella sua produzione.La storia si svolge in un ipotetico futuro (un 2021 a noi molto prossimo) dove il mondo si "ammala" di sterilità, ponendo così la fine di ogni speranza futura.Il tema dell'estinzione si congiunge anche a delle riflessioni sulla questione del potere.E' una lettura piacevole anche per la scrittura elegante e la vena thriller che serpeggia dando una dosata tensione.
Twenty five years before the story begins the Human race loses the ability to reproduce and there you are.
I like the 2006 movie version of this novel.
The novel is a what I consider to be a classic British Dystopian story.
Though he does get involved he isn't what Americans would consider a "man of action".
See: How I Live Now, 1984 and even The Day of the Triffids for other strong examples of this type of character.
As a Professor of History Theo can't help, but observe the final chapter in Human history.
The protagonist isn't the most likeable of people, but he is believable.
I have a very large soft spot for the P.D. James mysteries that I'd read and Alfonso Cuaron's adaptation of this book was beautiful, dark and easily the most wrenching apocalyptic film that I can think of.
If only the source material lived up to the grandeur of the film.Don't get me wrong, it's still a remarkably bleak book.
Both are compelling views of a world facing a slow death and the sure knowledge that this is the last generation of humanity, but I think that I am just drawn more to the bleakness of the film than I am to James' portrayal.
One star gets deducted from what would otherwise be a five-star review on account of James being a baroness and a "life peer" in the House of Lords--I don't make the rules punishing poshness, but you may count on me to enforce them.The movie, which I saw first, also kicks ass: Alfonso Cuarón (who directed Y Tu Mama Tambien) takes a minor theme in the book (the plight of immigrants, illegal and otherwise, in on-the-cusp-of-apocalypse England) and goes to town with it, with obvious political implications for modern America (and modern England, come to think of it).

Dystopian films also appeal so when I watched Children of Men several years back I was impressed enough to think that I would one day read the book.
I, for example, love the Terrence Malick version of the very good book by James Jones The Thin Red Line.
What I liked about that film was that Malick took an idea and made it into something other.
In the book people have drugs to control a horrendous disease but there is no communication such as the WWW?
I suppose that maybe the author wanted it to seem slow, after all this was a world that was made up old people.
A totalitarian world (2020s) where all humans are infertile and there are incentives for the infirm to commit suicide. Dissidents on the run, chases and hardship etc, but not as clichéd as that sounds. Gripping, chilling and (mostly) believable characters. The "science" is never really explained, so futuristic rather than sci fi? The film is very different, and not in a good way; fortunately I read the book first.
I thought it was a bit wordy. I feel like the story is sound, and I truly liked it. What happens to the world should all the men suddenly become sterile? How do we prepare for ever decreasing world population? Is there any hope of babies ever being born again? It's been 20 years since the "Gemini's" were born. Is this it? Is the world going to be without humans in less than 100 years? But wait! Somewhere in the country side of England there is a pregnant woman?
I loved the recent film version of this (which should have gotten WAY more Oscar nominations, dammit!), so of course I had to read the book, which I’d been told was very different.
The book explores themes of guilt and how men (er, mostly I mean humans here rather than males, although all the examples given in the text are male) abuse power; the film is about governmental abuse of power far more than individual abuse, and about post-apocalyptic violent desperation rather than quiet despair.
Not a bad book, but IMHO the movie is much better. P.D. James has a nice style, but it doesn't begin to compare with the film's stunning cinematography.
This was such a beautifully written book, P.D James does a fantastic job of telling this story in a way that makes it so incredibly believable.
I loved that I felt this way as it meant James had done her job extremely well and had led me to fully invest and believe in the story.3.
Overall I have no difficulty saying this is one of the best books I have read so far this year and I have a strong feeling that it'll be in my Top 14 of 2014 next year!
This book is an allegory, but a thrilling allegory for all that. It is better and less heavy hand than say the Narnia books. The characters are a little flat but the world building is wonderful. Once the story starts moving, it really starts moving
