https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10874177-etiquette-espionage
Tea should be required for the reading of all Gail Carriger books, don't you think?
Really, I did not expect this to feel so young. It has such a middle grade vibe. And contains some immature characters. The flywayman with the gun struck the headmistress across the face with his free hand. ‘‘Oh dear,’’ said Sophronia. ‘‘Violence.’’ She suppressed panic and a strange urge to giggle. She’d never before seen a grown man actually hit a woman. Whaaat? And that would make you, Sophronia, giggle? *shakes head*I didn’t like her as a character until maybe 75% of the story, when she seem
‘‘Oh dear,’’ said Sophronia.
The author seemed to want to make her seem strong and intelligent but there was always something she said or did that made me see her otherwise.The story didn’t have a very interesting plot.
Sophronia decided to practice a bit her eyelash-fluttering lesson.
Sophronia continued batting her eyelashes at him.
Mission unaccomplished.Soap was a nice character and the fact that he has his own ''way of speaking'' did not bother me at all.My favorite character though was Pillover since he was one of the only ones making Sophronia shut her mouth stop talking.
In Parasol Protectorate, Carriger’s trademark sense of humor was what made the series stand out, but there was also some substance underneath, and the plots kept me engaged and interested.
“But I have advanced eyelash fluttering to practice, and a mathematics problem concerning how to order strychnine and a lamb dinner on a limited budget, and three chapters on court etiquette to read, and my handkerchief to starch, and the quadrille to memorize!”“No one said learning etiquette and espionage would be easy, my dear.”
I’m prepared to give this series another chance because I adore Carriger’s sense of humor.
I think I'll have to go back and give the adult series set in this alternate steampunk Victorian world a try.Despite my stumbling over the affected narrative style at the outset, I ended up being entirely swayed by its charm and cleverness, and I enjoyed the book so much that I was disappointed when it was over.
Too bad I'll have to wait a loooong time for the second in this series, given this one's pub date of Feb. 2013.
Longer review to come, probably closer to the pub date.
Parasol Protectorate fans are probably going to flinch when I mention that I think I liked E&E a slight bit better than Soulless for book 1 of a series.
I felt like I was on this constant loop of intricacy, and I couldn't make my brain stop moving enough to take it all in large doses.
That's what I feel like when I read Carriger.
In large doses, I want to wander off and read something else.
And that's why it took me a couple of weeks to read the book, even though I liked it.
A cute, young adult book with a steampunk theme that takes place at a "finishing" school which isn't about etiquette at all.I made the mistake of reading this without realizing that it was based in a world from another series of books.
I'm guessing that I would have enjoyed it more if I had read the other set first.Etiquette and Espionage had plenty of fun moments in it.
What a relief.But funny moments do not a story make.
Recommended for a light summer read around the pool and, perhaps, you may want to read The Parasol Protectorate series first, starting with Soulless.
Fun! Feminism! Girliness! I would definitely recommend the audiobook as the narration is wonderful.
The prequel the Gail Carriger's adult series (which I haven't read), is based upon a finishing school that teaches more than just etiquette, but also some espionage that of course, must be executed in a lady like manner.
Yet also, Sophronia seemed a little unstable; her character was shaky, sometimes, it was difficult to pin point exactly whether I liked her or not.
As much as I wanted to admire Gail's story, the synopsis at the back of the book did not match with the novel itself.
Like I mentioned before, the bumpiness of the attention span ruined the other aspects that I would've usually appreciated.
I have already enjoyed several books in this author's Parasol Protectorate series and found this one to be nearly but not quite so good.
However I see that the next three books in this Finishing School series all score over 4 for their Goodreads average rating.
That cannot be bad so I guess I have good things to look forward to.I like steampunk and I usually like Young Adult books so Etiquette & Espionage worked for me.
The main character, Sophronia, is fourteen but acts much older and for most of the book I forgot that the characters were children.

Honestly, I'm just so impressed with myself that I read and liked a steampunk book.
I mean I don't think I'll be reading the rest of the series, at least not right away, but I did enjoy the book....mostly.What we have here is a young woman in an alternate England of lords and ladies with very proper etiquette, not to mention stiff collars and lots of frills.
Happily for mom she finds a Finishing School that seems willing to take Sophronia in spite of...short comings.As you may have intuited this is not your "run of the mill" Finishing School.The book tells a good story, that said it's long on characters and very short on plot.
The plot is sort of fitted in between Sophronia's revelations and education.
"[Is] that wise? Having a mess of seedling evil geniuses falling in love with you willy-nilly? What if they feel spurned?" "Ah, but in the interim, think of the lovely gifts they can make you. Monique bragged that one of her boys made her silver and wood hair sticks as anti-supernatural weapons. With amethyst inlay. And another made her an exploding wicker chicken." "Goodness, what's that for?" Dimity pursed her lips. "Who doesn't want an exploding wicker chicken?" I have to say, I was equal pa
Yes, it was a little heavy handed at first, and was missing some of the magic that came with Alexia's narration and her fabulous personality - but it worked, and in the end I quite liked it.I'm a pretty firm believer that you don't have to change your style/writing much (if at all) when you change age levels - there's no need to "write down" to kids (especially in this case, as the Parasol Protectorate series was a highly popular cross-over - Pretty much remove the steamy Victorian sexytimes and you're good to go).
Loved this book! It's a younger version of Gail's Parasol Protectorate series - a fun and entertaining read...er...listen. Once again I bought the audio book. Gail's books are great when read with a British accent.
Fantastic fun!
Packed with Wodehousian humor!Whip-smart author Gail Carriger kicks off a diabolically clever girl's school espionage series in style!
Whereas Austen prodded the society she was associated with, Etiquette & Espionage pokes fun at the Regency, early Victorian and Industrial Age manners and dress in a way that brands it with a slap on the ass!...a loving one though.
The addition of supernatural creatures and the fantastical school makes one leap to make Harry Potter parallels, but actually the overall tone of this is more like Jonathan Stroud's wonderful Bartimaeus triology.
Clever, funny, and flat out fun!
I could get so much more read if only I could listen to books throughout the day while also doing other things so I decided this was the place to start and hoped like heck I wouldn't regret it.Can I just tell you that I am so glad I listened to this on audio?
Moira Quirk has a lovely accent and made this read so much more fun than I think it would have been had I read it on my own not to mention I think the accent added a little something extra to the story that made it feel more authentic.
5 Words: School, friendship, class, spying, betrayal.No dumbing down for a Young Adult audience in this wonderful start to the Finishing School series.
Instead, the author keeps things mature - as she should.The voices of the characters are perfect for their age - and there are some familiar faces for those who have read the Parasol Protectorate novels.
Different fashions to imagine, different technologies to wrap your head around - and new questions blossoming in your head!As a separate series this is working well so far, but is still fascinating for those who have already been introduced to this wonderful world.I can't wait for the next one.
I picked this book up at my local Dollar Tree store. I had heard of this series before so when I saw it I just had to get it. I have never read the Parasol Protectorate series so I was a bit unfamiliar with the world. Regardless, this book was still lot of fun. My only issue was that the ending felt rushed.
After getting into one too many trouble, Mrs. Temminnick decides its time to send Sophronia to Mademoiselle Geraldine's Finishing Academy for Young Ladies of Quality where she'll learn better Etiquettes and blossom into a proper young lady they can be proud of.
They, too, have things to teach you.""Now, sir, I thought you didn't see any soot.”Sophronia and the rest of the characters have a lot to learn about themselves and Mademoiselle Geraldine's Finishing Academy for Young Ladies of Quality has a lot more to teach them about the art of espionage.
But once I was in the mood for a carefree adventure, this was just the perfect fix for it.Etiquette & Espionage had a very early-Harry-Potter feel to it, and I know it’s irritating to hear everything called the next Harry Potter, but let me explain.
She’s a 14 year-old outlandish girl who likes adventure; having her do stuff for the sake of enjoying it is perfectly in line with her character, and I, for one, am more than happy to get some action-sans-angst.It’s definitely a book that you have to be in the right mood for.
The names were pretty interesting, but then again I did read a book with a character named Kricket.
If the weird names freak you out in books..
just google weird names that people have had in the past or have now.
You'll get over it pretty quickly.Other than that I didn't really know what steampunk would mean in a book but I didn't hate it.
I have no idea when I'm going to read the next book in this series but that is only due to the already growing amount of books I want to read next year.I promise I'll continue this series - I just don't know when.
Lovely YA adventure in Carriger's SOULLESS world.
It was fun to see some characters from her adult books as kids, and the series is off to a rollicking start.
The underlying mystery of this book was a bit light, mostly so that she could introduce the finishing school and the cast of characters, and that was fine by me, because they were delightful.
I'd really like to see her go a bit longer with the next one, this felt too short!
Also, I really, REALLY need a mechanical wiener dog named Bumbersnoot because .
IT'S A MECHANICAL WIENER DOG NAMED BUMBERSNOOT!
So I got about a third through this book.
It wasn't what I thought it would be.
While I was expecting refined, suspenseful, and deadly, it was more silly and humorous - with a generous dash of outrageous fantasy.
Once I got used of the idea, I was really liking it!
and then they introduced werewolves and vampires, and no matter how light the feel, I just don't like "good" werewolves and vampires!
So I decided it wasn't so much my kind of book and traded it back to my bookstore for a book I liked!
*smiles*So those are my thoughts.
Good old sloppy English leads to punny situations & this is one where a daring young lady with unfashionable tom-boy tendencies gets sent off to one of the finest finishing schools that not only teaches manners, but espionage & murder.
While this certainly leaves the door open for a series, it is quite well contained & I'm sure the books need to be read in order.
I notice that one of my friends read another series by her first that seems to be set in the same world.
I mean, there comes a point in this book where the girls are learning some fine point of social manipulation, and you really can't tell if it's in service of catching a husband, or in service of lining someone up to stick a knife in them.
It's almost genius.Except it's Carriger, so it skips merrily past genius and settles for paper thin froth instead.Also, someone really needs to have a talk with her about the ways she is handling racism in this alternate historical context, because it is violently not working for me right now.
Like, hahaha, historical racism, how hilarious?
What I thought I was going to read: A book about a girl that learns how to kill people in a Nikita-like way in a steampunk setting.
What the book is really about: A somewhat boring girl from 1800s in a steampunk world of vampires and werewolves whos family wants to to be more girly so they send her off to a school and they have no idea she will be learning how to kill people in an almost boring way.
Gail Carriger is a really good writer but I was more into the writing then the story or the characters.Overall, this is nothing like I was expecting and it really caught me off guard.
Unfortunately, I'm currently in a huge book slump and I thought this may work to ease myself back into books in general - and I'm happy to say it was the perfect choice!While both the plot and the characters were a little on the "thinner" side, I highly enjoyed the Finishing School setting with its teachers, all its students, and of course, our cheeky heroine Sophronia.
I also very much enjoyed the whole setting of the story and quite liked the steam punk elements.This is cute, fun, entertaining and a very quick read.
Of course, what dear mummy doesn't know is that the school she's sending her young daughter too is not quite the 'normal' finishing school...
This one is all about etiquette (as you may expect) AND espionage (well, it's good to have hobbies, right?!) One of the most charming things for me about this series is revisiting the world we know from Parasole Protectorate and seeing it from new perspectives.
Overall I'd say this was thoroughly enjoyable and I can't wait to go onto book #2 as I'm sure that the series will go from strength to strength.
Can I just say that I absolutely LOVE this narrator.
She could read me the encyclopedia or an auto mechanic manual and I'd be enchanted.
Her cadence, crisp yet gentle British accent, and the host of other voices/accents she creates as she reads is impressive.
I highly recommend.
A Steampunk themed novel that centers around the exploits of young girls at a finishing school that is really designed for espionage.
Gosh, what a cleverly written novel.
I highly encourage this one as an audio book.
I've already started the sequel with the same narrator.
I felt like my intelligence was dribbling out of me as I read...Review to come.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
