https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99177.Outrageous_Acts_and_Everyday_Rebellions
I bought my copy from a thrift shop because I was curious to know how Ms Steinem did a gig as a Playboy bunny in order to come up with an article that has at least 43 pages of this book.
Well, I read all about these from Ms Steinem's book.Writing as a way of life, she goes on to share a lot of her ideas and stories from a perspective of someone who has done a lot of research works, and did active participation in events that would have certainly eaten so much of her time just as to come up with articles as clearly written and included in this book.
As interesting for me as the historical context of this book is the realization that many women, even in today's society, still do not enjoy equality.Feminism is often treated as a bad word and used to evoke images of bra-burning radical women who shout loudly about reproductive rights and sexual freedom.
While I don't agree with everything Steinem had to say or all the methods she used in getting her points across, I'm glad I read this book.
One point I agree with Steinem completely about is that the history of feminism needs to be taught widely.
Let me tell you in case you think my early feminist statement was meant to be precious or funny, it was not; I had plenty of childhood pals who when asked what they were going to do when they "grew up", answered matter-of-factly to get married or have kids.
Marriage seemed unlikely if men were to continue to react to strong women like the men I saw in the 1970s around my mom and around my town.However, if you would have asked me WHY I was a feminist up to the age 22, that answer might have been a little fuzzier.
What Steinmem would say would violate terms of service and make my laptop blow up.
It's still unclear to me how I made it through four years of Smith Colleage without ever reading "Outrageous Acts and Everday Rebellions," probably Gloria Steinem's most well known book.
"Outrageous Acts" is not really one book, but a collection of essays and articles by Steinem stretching over most of her career.
There is also some great and fascinating political writing in here, taken from Steinem's years on the McGovern, McCarthy, and Nixon campaigns, where she labored as a journalist and organizer.
Oh the flip side, because of the age of some of the articles, it made it very interesting to see how much has changed in the last few decades.I am very new to feminism myself and a lot of things were shocking and new to me.
Of course we focus on the Jewish angle the most, with good reason, but it is super enlightening to see a new angle to it.All in all I learned a lot about the past of Feminism which is good, as a basis in the history of any subject you wish to learn of is requirement to understand it well.
the evolution of our sexual culture and status quo.Kindle quotes:At The Ladies’ Home Journal where I was an occasional consultant and writer, one of its two top editors (both men, of course) was so convinced that I was nothing like its readers (whom he described as “mental defectives with curlers in their hair”) that he used to hand me a manuscript and say, “Pretend you’re a woman and read this.” - location 270The New York Times Magazine seemed to be continuing its usual practice of allowing women, minorities, and homosexuals to write first-person confessional pieces, but, in the name of objectivity, assigning white male heterosexual “authorities” to write definitive articles on these groups.
Steinhem notes in the preface (written 19 years after the first edition), "I feel angry when I re-read some of these pages and consider the lack of change or reminders of the backlash against change."I also felt angry, re-reading many of the articles on ‘micro-politics’, such as the politics of housework, paid work, pornography, food & the use of language and noting the lack of progress in many areas.
This was compounded when I got to the section on 'Politics' and noted the lack of progress with major issues such as FGM.
It's in moments like these, when Dude #1 makes a joke about women not knowing how to find CTRL+ALT+DEL, I rage-stroke and die at the lunchtable, and Dude #2 says, "But Angela, many women just don't go into computer science!
Stuff like how women tend to get *more* radical as they get older (hallo, 2014 Angela versus 2003 Angela!), stuff about absorbing/internalizing a lot of your supposed stereotyped characteristics (hallo, stereotype threat!), and stuff like how it's actually kinda hard to find spaces where ladies can just talk and "consciousness raise", since - until recently - you didn't really have women meetings up in bars after work to chat.
Review from The Book Wheel:About two months ago, during a class simulation, I was in the hallway speaking with several male classmates.
As someone who can identify with and is overcoming these same traits, it her ability to succeed and make such a long-lasting and positive change fills me with hope.Outrageous Acts and Everyday Rebellions is a book of essays, most of which were written decades ago, and include relevant updates to keep the reader up to date on what the current state of affairs are.
When I was reading Hitch 22 the other day I came across the following passage (page 121, Hitch 22): As 1968 began to ebb into 1969, however, and as “anticlimax” began to become a real word in my lexicon, another term began to obtrude itself.
For my taste, Steinem stayed on the right side of this fence, where Dale Spender didn't.
I feel having read Steinem's book long ago that she would be pleased by the development that in many STEM professions, women now outnumber men at the undergraduate level.
Had this great collection of essays by Gloria Steinham for 10 years buried in my to-be-read pile, then I read it bit by bit, amazed by the perceptions and intelligence of this early star of "true" feminism (a concept ill understood by current generations and often ill treated as well....).
It would be great if all young women today took the time to read and ponder these essays.
still interesting, but expected.
with the comfort that the end result of that change may be a socially acceptable enough public face, not a bitch with an axe to grind.) So yes, a lady doctor has never seemed weird to me, but I think the biggest uphill battle is changing attitudes that are less about overall life choices and more about socializing young girls to be conflict-avoidant, and young boys to being uncommunicative.Some things that bothered me (not as a result of a "feminist" identification, but simple recognition that Joss Whedon's "strong female leads" are dudes with boobs and torn shirts and that he's no feminist for this) didn't seem worth standing up against.
It was really depressing to read the essays in this book with quotes that are so similar to the ones all over the news currently - and then see the essay dated 1973. Regardless, read this book.
That makes it tough to be personally independent, or to advocate basic change.”“How many of us try to keep love and mutual support flowing between equals, only to find it dammed up by some imbalance of self-confidence or power?”“In short, we would discover, as we should already have guessed, that logic is in the eye of the logician.
But feminist groups are not yet strong enough to be a presence in the world of pornography, prostitution, and gynocide; or for that matter, in the world of welfare and the working poor...”“Ordeal attacks the myth of female masochism that insists women enjoy sexual domination and pain, but prostitution and pornography are big businesses built on that myth.”“Might our new confidence in women’s existence with or without the approval of men have helped a thirty-six-year-old woman of talent to stand on her own?
Based upon the pieces in this book, Gloria Steinem is an entirely reasonable and rational champion of equality.
She does not hate men, and her demands do not strike me as extreme in the least bit.In addition to my new revelation of Steinem as a reasonable person, this book offers great historical value.
Yet she had her own personal journey to find her own voice, and this journey is evident through her writings.A few pieces in the book are so irrelevant that they may be worth skipping: “Campaigning”, “Networking”, and “Far from the Opposite Shore”.
2) That 51% of the voting population should vote for a female candidate because of her gender, and any dissidents are not real feminists.3) That it is acceptable to play Oppression Olympics; in essence, to claim that the oppression of women is worse than the oppression of any other group because it is found in so many cultures and our sheer numbers should automatically afford us quicker emancipation.The first point quickly proved problematic that year (Welcome, Sarah Palin!) and rather surprising, since Steinem's writings preceding 2008 would have led me to believe that her anti-war leanings superseded identity politics.
I took a Women's History course in college, but it focused primarily on first wave feminism.
There's a line specifically where Steinem asks what your life was like before feminism, and I'll never really know.
It's a lovely wake-up call for me to remember the women who struggled before me so that I could have a life of individual choice rather than one of submission and to remind me that some of these fights are ongoing.----I'm a sucker for Amazon's monthly 100 books for $3.99 or less.
Anyway, after all the talk last month about the war on women, I figured it couldn't hurt to read a feminist classic and see how things have changed (or stayed the same) in the last 40 years.
As Gloria Steinem once wrote, "we need to know the history of our sisters" and that's exactly why I was interested in reading this book.
This led me to research more about the beginnings of the feminist movement and to Gloria Steinem's work.
I actually was not aware of the back story of the commonly used phrase - made popular by the Watergate scandal in the US - and didn't even know who Linda Lovelace was.)I think anyone interested in feminism and wanting to grasp a greater understanding of the movement should read this book.
That means we haven't yet experienced the life events that are most radicalizing for women: entering the paid-labor force, marrying and aging."From In Praise of Women's Bodies:"Though I had always resented the anthropological double standard by which scars are supposed to be marks of courage on a male body but marks of ugliness on a female one, I began to realize that I had been assessing such wounds in masculine terms nonetheless.
Dueling scars, war wounds, scars-as-violence – those images were part of the reason I had assumed such marks to be shocking on men as well as on women.But many of women’s body scars have a very different context and thus an emotional power all their own.
"Outrageous Acts and Everyday Rebellions" is a collection of feminist essays, covering topics ranging from Steinem's mother's almost life-long struggles with depression, to her experience going undercover as a Playboy Club bunny, to our society's expectations of women.
One reason I really enjoyed this book was because Steinem covered a wide array of topics.
Some essays, such as the one about her mother, were dark, and some were hilarious yet strikingly accurate, like "If Men Could Menstruate." Another reason I liked this book was because it made me appreciate second wave feminism and its participants so much more.
This collection of essays, which is now in its' second edition was published in 1995.
Gloria refers to how it is depressing that the issues discussed are still applicable years after the first edition was published.
When those who have been beaten down and been devalued, find their voice and gain traction towards progress, their movement is a flame that cannot be extinguished.
This collection of essays is moving, inspiring, maddening but also one of the most insightful and intelligent works of literature that I have ever had the pleasure of reading.
This book is part personal reflection, part social critique, and part history, written in the 1960s through the '80s, but updated with commentary in 1995.I was probably about 10 or 12 years old when Gloria Steinem first became nationally known as a feminist.
The book was a great reminder of things I'd forgotten about Steinem and about history -- particularly feminist history -- and it filled in details about people and events I wasn't aware of at the time.
The essay "Houston and History" in particular provided info on the so-called first wave of feminism (1800s and early 20th century) that I'd either forgotten or never known.
My hero, my idol, the person who changed my life.
Outrageous Acts is a collection of Gloria Steinem's journal/magazine/newspaper articles from the 60s and 70s when the feminist movement was being ignited and carried.
This book covers everything from Steinem's childhood with her mentally unstable mother, to female body acceptance and celebration.
Steinem is profoundly talented at writing from the heart; her narrative voice echoes in your life as the friend you never knew you needed.
She is an absolute inspiration and excellent motivator.
I don't know where I would be today if I hadn't read this book five years ago.
Wow. This collection of essays was an eye opener for me. As a 30-something woman, I have to appreciate what Gloria and "the second wave of feminism" fought for much like she appreciated the suffragists of the late 19th century. What really amazed me was how much is still the same and the fight that is still left ahead of us. It's easy to read in stages when you have a few minutes here and there. The essay on what the world would be like if men menstruated made me laugh out loud...definitely worth checking out!
This book was my introduction to the amazing Gloria Steinem. My U.S. History teacher in high school who was a super-feminist recommended this book to me, and I am so glad she did! I liked just about every piece in the book, especially "If Men Could Menstruate" which I quote on at least a weekly basis! Reading Steinem's experience as a playboy bunny, and then Hugh Hefner's response to her expose on Playboy was worth the price of the book. I highly recommend this book to anyone who loves feminism. It's a must read!
This book is a compilation of essays written between 1970 and 1985 or so, and while the pieces can seem outdated at times, they're also part of the canon of feminist thought. Steinam raises a million points that make you examine patriarchy in everyday life (Who leads conversations? How do we change our voices when talking to people of different genders?) The newest wave of feminism is excluded, but it's an wonderful look at our mothers' generation.
A collection of essays from the mid-sixties to mid-eighties, with copious introduction and footnotes bringing things more up to date (to the late-nineties, at least). It's obvious why she's such a powerhouse; she's a brilliant, sensitive, funny writer with a wealth of knowledge. It's wonderful to see the origins of second-wave feminism- to see how far we've come and how much there is still to be done. Highly recommended.
Hands down, this is one of the best books I have ever read. I found this book at a thrift store for very cheap, and read it in its entirety on the beach.I loved this book! I am mad at myself for taking so long to find it and then read it. Yes, it is a little dated, but unfortunately a lot of the issues women were dealing with and fighting in the 60's through the 80's, we are still dealing with today. I especially liked the article about Hitler and Nazi Germany and anti-choice zealots.
No 34 on Ms. Magazine's Top 100 Feminist Non-Fiction Countdown: When the second edition of this essay collection was released in 1995, Steinem expressed disappointment that its accounts of sexism didn’t yet read as dated. Point taken, but as Susan Faludi says, “Gloria Steinem’s first collection of essays is–and will always be–a required feminist reader.”
