https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/252999.Dark_Legend
5 Angel of light StarsFirst read July 2012 Reread January 24, 2016Reread Feb 1 2017 "Don't get any ideas, I'm just giving the devil his due. All this time our people called you the angel of light and Lucian the dark angel. I think they might have it backward."-Francesca "I am not trying to take over your life, I only want to share it. I ask for a chance. Only that. A chance. You had not planned to end your life for several years. Share those years with me. Let me try to make up for the wrong I d
I have loved Gabriel and Lucian since the first mention of them.
Gabriel does pull a sneaky move on Francesca to keep her from killing herself(view spoiler)[ He knocks her up on purpose (hide spoiler)], but after that he gives her time, space, and understanding.
She was very hurt when Gabriel walked past her and didn't even look her way all those centuries ago.
The way Gabriel, Francesca, and Lucian all protect Skyler and make her their family was touching and beautiful.
The way Gabriel and Francesca earn her trust and show her what love can be.
I also love all the parts with Lucian and Gabriel.
I loved, loved, loved this one! I thought Gabriel and Francesca were amazing together! I also love Lucien- he is very intriguing and powerful! Skyler was awesome and I hope she gets a great lifemate!
They never kiss or do anything sexual and it kind of seemed like they really never did in the past, though they spent time together.
She did not love him.Gabriel: So I think he had never actually had sex before, but references to his past are a little unclear.
He only mentions having "merged" with a humans a few times to understand what the sexual experience was like for them.
One of the things I love about this series is that the heroes have all been celibate for hundreds of years, and we never have to hear about past OW.
I tried Christine Feehan before and couldn't get into her stories, but so many recommend her I had to give her another shot.Dark Legend, the story of Gabriel, the Carpathian hero who lived for centuries with one intent, keeping his Carpathian-turned-Vampire twin brother, Lucian, in check.Dark Legend opens with Gabriel awakening after a century's long, self-induced sleep in the earth, hungry and in need.
Almost immediately, he meets up with Franchesca- who just happens to be his lifemate.How convenient.I tried.
I couldn't.Gabriel-annoying and Franchesca- just too stupid to live.Although Feehan attempted to reassure the reader that the heroine was strong, independent and likable, it simply didn't wash.
I am not sure I have forgiven Gabriel for what he unintentionally did to Francesca all those years ago or what he INTENTIONALLY did to her in this book, but I hold no ill will towards them finding their HEA.Francesca is a saint among women - well Carpathian women.
So why is he still around?Lucien - the "twist" it was painfully obvious from the beginning and I think the author missed a great opportunity for different family dynamics.
Instead the plot continually made Gabriel look weak.Safety Gang Safe - except for a minor triangle.
That was weak and did me no favors in liking him.Especially - since he bound himself with Francesca against her wishes and manipulated a pregnancy!!!
To save humanity and Carpathians alike, Gabriel sacrificed himself in a battle and trapped both himself and Lucian in the earth.Years later, he rises ravenous because of construction on the cemetery and finds solace and reprieve in what turns out to be his estranged mate, Francesca.Francesca always knew Gabriel was her mate, but when he ignored the mating call and instead decided to go chase his brother Lucian, she slowly gave up all dreams of family and happiness, and live her life as a human slowly meeting the end.When Gabriel shows up again, she decides that it will be the end of her life, but Gabriel knows it's only the starting and coerces her into the mating.In this story, we meet the "evil" Lucian,Pesky reporters, the tortured child Skylar and the good turned to bad Brice.The story has good amount of angst in parts, however the book itself is exciting though the hero and heroines OTT sacrificing love attitude annoyed me a teeny bit (fight for each other dammit).
In this book we delve further into the legendary twin Carpathian hunters Gabriel and Lucian.
This is also the story of Francesca Del Ponce, Gabriel's amazing lifemate.For two thousand years Gabriel and Lucian hunted the undead, endlessly sacrificing their souls for the safety of Carpathians and humans alike.
Seduced by the dark power of taking lives, Lucian succumbs and becomes the undead, and for hundreds of years Gabriel has been forced to do the unthinkable: to hunt his own brother.At the beginning of this book, Gabriel awakens after being within the ground for over a century.
Just when you think you've met the oldest and most powerful of Christine Feehan's Carpathian males, she produces one who's even older and more powerful.
Gregori's older brothers were great fighters and protectors of the Carpathian people.
until Gabriel tricked his brother and bound them together underground.A disturbance awakens the twins in modern-day Paris.
But at least he values her mind and her gifts; he cares about her feelings; and feels real guilt for the way his actions have impacted her life.I also really enjoyed the twin dynamic between Gabriel and Lucien.
And Ms Feehan reminds us again that her favorite words are velvet, lightning and sheath.
The only thing I didn't like about Lucian, and it really isn't Lucian's fault, is that I had gotten it engrained in my head that Gregori is the most powerful Carpathian.
But seriously, the interaction and love from brother to brother is wonderful and I like it that even in the midst of being hunted by his brother, Lucian felt his brother's pain and immediately asked if he needed assistance.
I felt her strength as an ancient female Carpathian, however, in other stories, the mates would lend their strength to their mates in time of battle and great need.
I would also like to see a Carpathian female capable of killing if the time arose.
My favorite things about this Carpathian books were:Francesca is very independent and capable.
Skylar's story just about broke my heart.
It just about made me homocidal to read about a so-called father doing that to his daughter.The cat and mouse game between Gabriel and Lucian kept my interest.
I think Feehan did a great job keeping the suspense where you wondered what was up with Lucian, but at the same time could believe he was redeemable, the way he was helping Skylar and protecting Francesca.
I was very happy with the resolution of the angst between Gabriel and Lucian.
This book tortured me with Long and drawn out dialogue about FEELINGS.
How the heroine felt about the hero, or her doctor friend who was also in love with her.
As for the hero, he couldn't stop talking about his feelings for his vampire twin brother, his flaming desire for the heroine, or his fierce protectiveness for the teenage girl he has placed under his care.
I can't believe I'm saying this but I actually wanted less talk and more action.
What kept me going was the hope that the evil twin, who is more powerful than the hero, would find a love interest in this book.
it literally took me months to read.So Francesca is a ancient Carpathian women hiding among the humans.
Even the fourteen year old speaks like a Carpathian.
The whole (view spoiler)[mating ritual forced on Francesca and getting her pregnant so she wouldn't want to die and would bind them tighter (hide spoiler)] seemed diminished when she repeatedly told us she wasn't a fletching and could have stopped it at any time.
Gabriel was kind of wish washy, not our usual alpha male, and Francesca was basically perfectThe storyline with Lucien was pretty obvious, but did set us up for his story.
Não sei o que passou na cabeça da Bertrand para editarem o 8º volume desta série, mesmo sendo livros individuais, tinha mais lógica começarem pelo primeiro.
Mas isto é tudo um jogo para enganar o leitor, pois Francesca sabe mto bem quem é Gabriel, não fosse ele o seu grande amor de há muitos anos atrás.O amor, a ligaçao do casal protagonista é fantástica.
Apesar de ser um romance paranormal não tem assim muitos elementos sobrenaturais, focando-se mais na relação de Gabriel, Francesa e na pequena Skyler, uma menina maltratada que será adoptada pelos dois.Apesar de ter adorado o livro, este faz parte de uma série que vai em 22 volumes.
Rating~ 5 stars.This is Gabriel and Francesca's story. Gabriel is one of the ancients and the one-half of the infamous hunter twins who devoted their life to the duty they had towards their people. While Francesca is also an ancient but not as old as Gabriel, She had decided to live her last few years on earth as a human. I really enjoyed Francesca and Gabriel's story, their connection and the love they had for their adopted child.
I liked Francesa's character. She had her own identity. It wasn't over-the-top like Jaxon (who was tough in her own mind but whined and unreal) or Destiny (who I actually liked but she seemed slightly manish).
Such a great book, and I knew what was going on, and yet it was so freaking good, knowing that Lucien was just faking it, to protect Gabriel! So good, so loving this series!
4.5 Sexy, Poignant, Forever and Ever Lifemate Love Stars!
Gabriel is tormented by the love he feels for his brother and the anguish of having to kill him.We are taken to a magical world filled with characters we know and introduced to new ones.
In Carpathian legend, they were great warriors who fought for centuries to protect their homeland and to hunt the undead.Everyone assumes they are dead as they haven't been seen in centuries.
Lucien was said to have turned and Gabriel hunted him down.
She's an ancient herself and has been on her own a long time, so is reluctant to give up the life she built for herself - the basic hallmark of the series.
Independent woman meets overbearing Carpathian male and spends the book smexing it up and then flip-flopping on whether or not she can be with him.In this instance the flip-flop didn't drag on as long.
This book though I personally found a tough read, she was so good, he was so good, no he was so good, no she was...you get my point.
Christine Feehan is to be thanked for today's PNR UF books but boy can she waffle sometimes and this book was a waffler and a half.
There is so much promise for this series and yet Ms Feehan just falls short on capitilizing on people and situations because she just seems to cover the same ground over and over.
Some of these books have been really good and others just don't quite live up to what they should, this is one of the latter.
I was extremely surprised of how much I adored this book.
Although I was certain I would have a great time with it as the previous installment already got us introduced to this respected and feared fighter.
And I adored his mate.
In this installment we get to read about a couple composed of two carpathian, which IMHO always make things easier and the pace of the read faster and more entertaining.
I was done with in less than 8 hours.I can't help but adore this series and get more into it with every book.
3 - 3.5 Stars
The opening of the book had me questioning her sanity when she picked up a desiccated Gabriel, put him in her car and started him driving him around.
I wanted extreme pain and torture for the monster who called himself her father.
And I wanted it to last for-freakin-ever!
Skylar stole my heart, along with Francesca’s and Gabriel’s.
I’m about to start Lucian’s book and I cannot wait.
That’s gonna be goood!I peeked ahead and know that Syklar gets a book too, but I have to wait for quite a while.
He is incredibly tender and sweet and protective towards Francesca in a way that is a little unusual for the usually heavily domineering Carpathian males.
I also loved the connection between Gabriel and his twin Lucian, and the struggle he had to go through.
The setting, unlike the Carpathian Mt's, was Paris- a fitting city of love and romance.
I mean what Carpathian male would leave his lifemate willingly?He was just the perfect hero to be honest and he was so honourable and lived up to the legend and then some.
Anyway, Gabriel and Francesca take her under their wings.
Francesca knows he cannot stop battling Lucian, who is now somewhere in Paris plotting his intricate game, and now her revealed presence in the city has drawn other vampires to the area.Like Dark Gold, this has one of the more original storylines and characters, which made it one of the better books.
I really liked both Gabriel and Francesca and their story was very engaging.Francesca is a Carpathian woman that's a strong healer.
Francesca decided to go live her life on her own and ended up living mostly like a human to escape the notice of Carpathians or vampires.Gabriel is an ancient Carpathian male; Carpathians are born vampires with abilities like shape shifting (to any form, even mist), magic spells and psychic powers.
Francesca had already decided to live life as a human and let herself die like a human and when Gabriel shows up, she's not real anxious to change her plans.
I really liked Francesca, especially once she got past her "life plan" that she had before Gabriel came into the picture.
I’ve read some of Ms. Feehan’s earlier books in this Dark Carpathian series.
I enjoyed them then and DARK LEGEND proved no different.
DARK LEGEND is a great continuation in the Carpathian novels.
¬¬¬Gabriel is the strong, egotistical Carpathian male who, ironically, seemed a bit more in touch with his emotional self than I remember from the previous books.
Although both characters were well written and I enjoyed them a lot, what truly excited me was, Lucian, the “evil” twin brother.
Parts of the book even seemed more like a build-up for the next book, DARK PROTECTOR, which is about Lucian.
What is the allure of this life-mate nonsense?
I know there are stories which do it well, giving it an unexpected twist or a deeper meaning.
'Dark Legend' is not one of those.Heroine is a saint who worked hard on forging an independent life for herself.
Instead of letting her get to know him, court her or deploy any other kind of sane action he immediately decides to compel her with some kind of mind-trickery to have sex with him (which for me clearly came across as rape) in order to seal the life-mate deal.
35 estrellas. Lo que más me ha gustado del libro es Skyler y como la cuidan. Dentro de unos años, este personaje debería tener su propio libro. La historia de amor entre Gabriel y Francesca, es bonita, ellos son adorables, pero espero que el libro de Lucian cambie un poco el esquema de los libros, ya que me da la sensación de que siempre es lo mismo.
3´5 estrellas. Lo que más me ha gustado del libro es Skyler y como la cuidan. Dentro de unos años, este personaje debería tener su propio libro. La historia de amor entre Gabriel y Francesca, es bonita, ellos son adorables, pero espero que el libro de Lucian cambie un poco el esquema de los libros, ya que me da la sensación de que siempre es lo mismo.
Gabriel and Francesca make a great couple and even though Gabriel has all the alpha controlling Carpathian tendency that this series is known for he shows a care and loving towards Francesca and Skyler. The plot is good and makes for a great read. The book is amazing.
