https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/360148.History_of_Italian_Renaissance_Art
This is a book to be kept on the shelf labeled " magic that never dies".Here are some excerpts form Titian who is well known for the nude of "Venus of Urbino":" This unprecedented interpretation of the female nude must surely have been shocking to some when it was painted, especially in this period when a woman's behavior was controlled by strict social mores, if it represented not Venus but a particular woman or even an ideal example of female beauty."" The young man was also a shrewd businessman who invested his earnings, and by1531 he was able to buy a palatial residence in Venice, looking out across the lagoons and, on clear days, to the slopes of the Dolomites where he had been born.
Read for my class: Leonardo, Raphael, and their ContemporariesA very good survey.
It's difficult to find a good survey, but my professor is literally 90+ years old, so he's had time to look around.
Additionally, Hartt spends a great deal of time explaining the processes of creating the various types of painting (tempera, oil, on different media) or fresco (buon, secco, etc.) or sculpture, which taught me a great deal.
I wish there were more variety, but that may have to do with museums and copywrite and nothing to do with Hartt.
It is a book for those who study or seriously interested in art and it isn't cheap. It covers Italian Art from the late Middle Ages to the Late 16th century in various region of Italy.Very detailed with fabulous illustrations.
Apparently a real classic of the genre. Hefty and full of pix. I rescued this from the trash of a certain book purveyor. Along with a book covering the two world wars, this is the biggest tome I've ever pulled out of the oblivion hole. Hope to review this soon...
How I taught myself about art.
Saw an article in the New York Times about Italian Renaissance Art. I thought, Man, I used to know all this in college. Turns out I was inspired to read through my Italian Renaissance Book. Man this book is full of good stuff. My only complaint is that it's huge and difficult to carry. I wish something like this came in a Kindle or Nook. Then again, the wonderful color plates wouldn't be available. The photos are great. The art history is even better.
A dense, informative book that would appear to include everything you could want to know about the topic. The pictures are gorgeous, and the stories behind them fun to read. The book is not just about the masters, either, like da Vinci and Michelangelo, but about lesser known geniuses, like Paolo Uccello, Piero della Francesca and Antonello da Messina. Terrific compilation that I would highly recommend.
Visual feast with complementary knowledge. Viva il Cinquecento.
Read it as part of a survey class.....kept it and have read again over the years and each time, I learn something new. Opened my eyes to a whole new world and a continuing educational path
Great book on Italian Renaissance art, and good for supplement material in any art history class.
Another great Art History lecture with Dr. Diane Goode!
The History of Italian Renaissance Art has nice illustrations. Enjoyable to read the history. This book reminded me of my Art history text book.
14年去欧洲前看的。All time favorite. 这就是一本随时让我翻起来感到开心的书。
I originally checked it out from the library, but that edition had mostly black and white photos, so I rented the latest edition from Barnes and Noble for around thirty dollars - not cheap, but well worth it.
For some reason, I really enjoy looking at artwork while reading a critical analysis of it.
I didn't read it deep enough to actually critique the artwork myself, or even tell good artwork from bad artwork, but I can identify different Renaissance artists and paintings now.
It is a long book, but again, well worth the effort.
I really gained a deep appreciation for the effort and effect that goes into making good artwork.
As part of my "Monuments Men" fixation, I found this book by one of them.Frederick Hartt does a wonderful job at explaining Italian Renaissance art, as we would expect. The jarring thing about the book, from my spoiled 2014 sensibility, is that so many of the pictures are in black and white, which makes sense considering the publication date of the book. I found myself turning to Google images frequently, in order to see the works in color.
I have the Third Edition
A beautiful (albeit heavy) book.
Viewed generally as the greatest book on Italian renaissance art this book is particularly noted for its exceptionally clear writing. The survey is comprehensive.
Typical school survey book. Still full of good stuff.
college text
Very useful book. For Art 381.
I ❤❤Frederick Hartt
The ArtLab has multiple copies of this book
