https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/618164.The_Collected_Poems
There a several poems by Roethke that I quite like.
And then they'd start thinking I was their friend (by which they really meant a recipient of their speech) and I'd have to say things like "Theodore, dude!
You really can't write a poem like that to your underage student!
Roethke's historical significance rests both on his established place in the American canon and on his influence over a subsequent generation of award-winning poets that includes Robert Bly, James Dickey, Carolyn Kizer, Sylvia Plath, Anne Sexton, William Stafford, David Wagoner, and James Wright.
Roethke is never obscure; he always writes in fresh language, avoiding cliches, although his symbols are indeed personal and take time to understand.
Roethke was a keen observer of the links between the physical world and the metaphysical, and poems such as "Meditation at Oyster River" show a profound understanding of Man's place in Nature even in the mundane-ness of the life of the individual.
Book #3: The Waking (1953) It includes this great poem: Elegy for Jane(My student, thrown by a horse) I remember the neckcurls, limp and damp as tendrils;And her quick look, a sidelong pickerel smile;And how, once startled into talk, the light syllables leaped for her,And she balanced in the delight of her thought,A wren, happy, tail into the wind,Her song trembling the twigs and small branches.The shade sang with her;The leaves, their whispers turned to kissing,And the mould sang in the bleached valleys under the rose.Oh, when she was sad, she cast herself down into such a pure depth,Even a father could not find her:Scraping her cheek against straw,Stirring the clearest water.My sparrow, you are not here,Waiting like a fern, making a spiney shadow.The sides of wet stones cannot console me,Nor the moss, wound with the last light.If only I could nudge you from this sleep,My maimed darling, my skittery pigeon.Over this damp grave I speak the words of my love:I, with no rights in this matter,Neither father nor lover.
James Dickey called him our best American poet, and he was the teacher of who I consider our best American poet (or one of them), Jack Gilbert.It'd be hard to find fault with Roethke, then, though I struggled a bit with the first quarter of this collection (I'm not a fine of outright rhyming sonance). The rest of his stuff is great, subdued and often weird, not to the point of strangulated cacophony but a drifting sense of unease.
I need to find out what poems I read in Premier Book of Major Poets: An Anthology that made me want this book so bad, because it was so tedious and disappointing.
Maybe I'm not sophisticated enough to get it, but this guy rambles about leaves almost as much as Walt Whitman.
Maybe that's not my genre.
I think I need more structure.
Like if you're going to talk about a river, finish the thought.
If you're going to talk about love, don't cut yourself off mid-way to start talking about dirt on a rock.
A wordless silence between words. An underrated poet in my mind, wouldn't doubt that he'd all but been forgotten had he been any less than brilliantly innovative. You want deep image? His stick runs deep. The river is wide. The way home for Roethke is back through the womb, back into blood. Additionally, if you've read My Papa's Waltz only, you have no idea, alright?
One of my "desert island" books. I once had three copies because I kept loaning it out to friends who took too long to return it. The whole book is wonderful, but the poems from "The Lost Son" collection are my favorites.
Beautiful poems. Written by a man who saw the magic in life.
I suppose the time is right to admit that I had a secret, blazing love affair with Theodore Roethke when I was a student.He showed me bird's tongue orchids, gave dreams of death, and taught me the inexorable sadness of pencils.Theo's been dead since 1963, and my lit profs will be of too advanced an age to be much bothered by my admission.After all these years, his voice jars me like the shattering of a clay flower pot.Our worst moment was when I discovered the phonetic spelling of his surname.
I'd been saying it wrong for years, but he had never corrected me.
I was familiar with only few of Theodore Roethke's poems, "The Waking," and "My Papa's Waltz." After reading his collected works, some two hundred poems, I am impressed with his body of work.
I know that the late Jim Harrison, a great poet himself, thought much of Roethke.
Maybe because they shared a love of the natural world.
It took me a long while to finish this collection because I wanted to savor these poems.
I was also taken by the maturity in skill from reading his first collection, published in 1941, to the posthumously published poems in 1965.
The long arc of his work.
Some of it is mind-boggling--those swampy and phlegmy poems. Then there's crap like the much-anthologized "My Papa's Waltz." I'm glad to have rediscovered him--what's good here is unlike anything else, puts me in touch with something long-forgotten.
My favorite poet, hands down. His way with words is stunning. Personal favorite poems include Reply to a Lady Editor, Elegy for Jane, My Papa’s Waltz, The Geranium and The Saginaw Song. I'm obsessed.
For me, it's all about the "North American Sequence" and the last book, The Far Field. Screw "My Papa's Waltz." ;)
Like any great poet, Roethke gives words to experiences you forgot you ever had. Wonderful collection. Just the poem `What Can I Tell My Bones' can be mind altering.
Like any great poet, Roethke gives words to experiences you forgot you ever had. Wonderful collection. Just the poem `What Can I Tell My Bones' can be mind altering.
One of my new favorite poet.The Waking poem started all this for me I'm glad I found and bought a copy.I had loads of fun reading this I really enjoyed it!
I love Roethke, and I love poems in classical forms, but a book of them is overwhelming. Read only a few at a time to really appreciate them.
I Knew a Woman I knew a woman, lovely in her bones,When small birds sighed, she would sigh back at them;Ah, when she moved, she moved more ways than one:The shapes a bright container can contain!Of her choice virtues only gods should speak,Or English poets who grew up on Greek(I'd have them sing in chorus, cheek to cheek.)How well her wishes went! She stroked my chin,She taught me Turn, and Counter-turn, and stand;She taught me Touch, that undulant white skin:I nibbled meekly from her proffered
I Knew a Woman
I knew a woman, lovely in her bones,When small birds sighed, she would sigh back at them;Ah, when she moved, she moved more ways than one:The shapes a bright container can contain!Of her choice virtues only gods should speak,Or English poets who grew up on Greek(I'd have them sing in chorus, cheek to cheek.)How well her wishes went!
To know eternity.I swear she cast a shadow white as stone.But who would count eternity in days?These old bones live to learn her wanton ways:(I measure time by how a body sways.)
Roethke is a poet of small things: again and again he tells us that it's in the tiny particulars that life is real and earnest. He's also enormously if bemusedly benevolent: nothing seems to make sense, but it all, mystically, will-- probably. I like this guy a lot, and he improves with closer acquaintance. Very much recommended!
I read Theordore Roethke's "My Papa's Waltz" and I liked it for the different view many people take after reading this poem
The Awakening is a dream come true. Love this piece.
A wonderful collection of Roethke's beautiful poetry. Some of his poems are funny, some are serious, all are worth reading. Some of his poems about nature are exquisite.
I will forever respect and admire his work.The poet writes almost completely in metered verse, which lends a unique structure to his poems.
Roethke evokes the precise Being of his subjects, and this precision itself lifts this Being to a level of the sublime.Again and again, the forces and workings of nature (human nature, season, growth, death, tragedy, joy) are observed with an eye that discerns with exactness.
This exactness submerses the reader in the experience, and these forces and workings become expressions of something larger, even as they remain precisely themselves only.
I almost love this book too much to write a review of it.
I keep thinking my time might be better spent reading it again.
It's not so much in the meter of his writing, but more in the words that he chooses to convey movement, breathing, laughing, feeling.
From The Waking:We think by feeling.
I don't know.I do enjoy/appreciate Roethke and I would think anyone would get an education in the evolution of an artist from reading this collection, although maybe only people who are INTERESTED in tracking the evolution of an artist would.
Roethke is one of those artists from whom it's difficult to separate their life from their work, so included in just reading the poems for poetry's sake is that voyeuristic sense of trying to see where the madness creeps in.
It would be interesting to compare the reaction of someone who doesn't know Roethke's background to that of someone who is very familiar with it.
so far i have read "open house" and "the lost son and other poems".
i really hate how publishers don't publish individual books of poems the way the author originally published them.
you can see what made roathke such a special american poet, his best tendencies are on full diplay in his first book of poems.
well, i plan on reading the rest in this collection, but since the only way i can read poets these days is by getting their complete works, i still have some lowell, rimbaud and delmore to compete with roethke.
I first came across Roethke's name while reading the Dune books--apparently Frank Herbert was a fan of this once better known poet.
Reading his work I can see why; Roethke definitely has a mystical bent.
What I like about his poetry: heavy reference toward nature, and beautiful rhythm.
There were lines that felt like they had no syntax, yet still pleased the ear.
You can tell this man delighted in words, and the power of their sound.
What I liked less: A little bit too much repetition.
Roethke shines best when contemplating the magic of soil and trees.
I love Roethke's earlier naturalistic work.
He's also got these really fantastic observational lines in his later work that are more about social dynamics and growth, in a way that feels almost like he's applying the same kind of lens to human behavior: "so much of adolescence is an ill-defined dying / an intolerable waiting."Some of the smaller nature poems blurred together for me but that probably has something to do with reading them all in quick succession.
But I'm still glad to be familiar with his work.
In elementary school, I bought a seven inch Scholastic record of scary stories and poem, and one of the poems was The Bat by Roethke, although I didn't know his name at the time.
I memorized the poem and would recite it with little provocation.
When the internet came along, I Googled it and discovered who the author was.
Recently I discovered that the Kurt Elling song The Waking, which I've always liked, was also based on a Roethke poem.
So I had to read this.
I discovered that a third poem which I remembered from high school was also by Roethke.
Along with Wallace Stevens, my favorite American poet of the past century. The poems of his life in Michigan, among the greenhouses, are great, as with a mix of poems written when he was teaching. As Camille Paglia has pointed out, he is not remembered or read enough today, which is a shame given the freshness and vitality of his work. Almost all of his poems have a direct "in the moment" quality. Of few, today or yesterday, can this be said.
Roethke has a unique voice and one that swings between the beautiful and subtle to the abstract. But, through it all, his play with words and form does a great job of capturing his world in verse. Roethke spent a lot of time in his garden, and his love of cultivated nature comes through in his poems. I think the best thing about his work is that it is both immediate in its vision yet removed enough to allow some of the world's mysteries to trickle through.
