https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/600384.Death_of_a_Swagman
I have always been a mystery reader, but this book introduced me to another facet of good writing, letting readers have a view of different cultures. The criminal investigation is a side plot, the main attraction is the country and people.This book also was one of a series on the same character, inspiring me to read the ones earlier in the series and discovering and reading the subsequent books as they came available. All are good reads.Bony is a half-breed in race-conscious Australia and his interactions with others is a terrifying window into the realities of life
Bony in disguise; there's nothing unusual in that. Bony at his methodical best, working his way into the life of Merino. Is there a serial killer at work in the district? Another great story commanding your devoted attention. You'll have to keep reading non-stop. No time to eat or do anything else; just keep turning those pages!
A top Bony novel. A stockman is found dead in his hut near Lake Mungo and the detective sent from the city can make no headway, but Bony spots a message a traditional copper can't understand and knows the murder is not the way it seems. Briskly paced and based in an area I've visited.
A swagman is found dead in a pool of blood in a hut near the Riverina town of Merino.
Bony only sees a photo of the hut but is convinced the man did not die there, and is intrigued enough to take the case.
He arrives in town incognito, gets himself arrested and, as well as painting the Police Station fence a sickly yellow, he investigates as only Bony can.
Bony pontificates several times about the difference between city crime solving and bush police work.
A few twists before Bony solves the case.
I love all the Upfield "Bony" mysteries.
Although I read most of these in paperback about 18 years ago, I don't recall reading this one.
It is the 9th in the published series.
While all of the elements I enjoy about this series are there, this one had two things about it that I didn't like as much.
Still, I enjoyed the audiobook narrator, Peter Hosking, and the visit to the Walls of China area through the experiences of Upfield's Australian detective, Napoleon Bonaparte.
If I ever get to visit Australia again, I must see this feature of Mungo National Park in New South Wales.
Bony arrives in Merino, NSW, Australia (sheep country, in case you needed a hint) and is jailed almost immediately. While most detectives would find it difficult to investigate a cold case form behind bars, Bony is no ordinary Detective-Inspector and a jail in the bush is a little bit different as well. This series is most intriguing for its look into a different place and era. Also, the investigating is first rate.
Bony, arriving in an outback town under cover, is immediately arrested as a vagrant. Working out his sentence, he acquaints himself with the personalities and footprints of the inhabitants. One of them is killing and dumping bodies at an old laborers' hut. Bony's patient investigation suddenly takes on urgency, and one of the colorful, highly individual inhabitants has killed his last victim.
These stories are dated and at times even a bit corny but I'm a fan anyway. Bony is an entertaining, one of a kind detective. That said, like all of Upfield's books, this title is really all about the Australian bush and not about detection.
I just couldn't finish it. I was genuinely curious to discover the indigenous detective Inspetor Bonaparte but the character was impossible to relate to and the "white" tone from 1945 was irritating. So I'll never know who killed the swagman.
"Mr. James relaxed. Bony lit another cigarette. What he had remembered was the rebuke he had received when he had thought to smoke on the parsonage veranda. With seeming inadvertence, the smoke of this cigarette travelled to and about Mr. James's head" (170-1).
I liked the setting and the detective, but the mystery was only so-so.
An unusual tale, set in an intriguing time and place. The detective is a likeable character, but the motive for the crimes in just odd.
