https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1767194._
From my review at Solomon Says:Amrita Pritam pours her own experiences of living through the partition into Pinjar.
The story is told from Puro perspective, and is a unique look into the harrowing situation of women at the time.
Amrita puts a living soul into each of her character.
As of this writing, Delhi is unsafe for women, people clamouring for justice for a rape victim clash with the police at India Gate, it is still the woman’s fault and shame.
Pinjar is still relevant, and to paraphrase the author, every girl saved and given justice is another Puro.
The plot moves through India's independence (the partition of the country into India and Pakistan) when the communal tensions reached to monstrous levels on both side of the borders.
It certainly must have sounded very well in the original.About THAT MAN: The premise looked fantastic for this novel.
That is why I might end up giving this novella only 3 stars.This is a story of a boy who at his birth is offered to the temple to be brought up as God's child.
He develops no love for the mother who had given him up to the temple.

Pinjar is the journey of Pooro - a woman abducted to assuage the scar of an immaterial feud and abandoned to salvage the all important prestige that religion and family hold in society.
In her writing that now ages several decades, Amrita Pritam and her Pooro make us wonder at our own dismal hypocrisy when we wonder if the men who kidnapped and abandoned her respectively, still weren't all that bad after all.Set in an era that two nations (if nations are its people and not its politicians) would most likely want to go back and re-write, Pinjar is still relevant.
विभाजन की विभीषिका, समाज में औरत की सथिति, उसके संघरष का , हाशिये पे आये हुए इंसानी रिशतों का, कटटरत
अभी शेखों के यहां से लोग आ जाएंगे और हमारे बच्चे-बच्चे को पेर डालेंगे।' पिता ने यह कहकर आंख फेर ली तो मां कलेजे पर पत्थर रखकर बाकी परिवार की दुहाई देते हुए बोली, "तेरा धर्म गया, तेरा जनम गया। हम जो इस समय कुछ भी बोले तो हमारे लहू की एक बूंद भी नहीं बचेगी”.पिंजर पहले मैंने फिल्म देखी थी,फिर बाद में किताब पढ़ी,और मैं कहना चाहूँगा कि फिल्म वाकई एक बेहद इमानदार कोशिश थी,पर अमृता प्रीतम के लिखे शब्दों का स्थान नही ले सकती.मूलतः एक कवियित्री होने के कारण कथानक में सरसता,कविता का भाव है.मुख्य बात है,कहानी कहने का तरीका,अगर आज किसी और लेखक ने इसे लिखा होता तो ये कम से कम ४०० पन्नों का उपन्यास होता,पर अमृता प्रीतम ने बहुत कम शब्दों में, सिर्फ प्रतीकों के माध्यम से एक युग की वेदना और संवेदना हो दिखाया है.कहानी का अंत वाकई बहुत अच्छा है,और मैं कहानी बता के इसे नष्ट नही करना चाहता.अगर साहित्य प्रेमी है,तो जरुर पढ़ें और अगर मूवी के शौक़ीन है,तो फिल्म देख सकते हैं,पर कम से कम एक बार तो अवश्य देखने /पढने लायक.
I had heard so much about Pinjar by Amrita Pritam and desperately wanted to get my hands on it.Pinjar is a short story based on the circumstances of the partition particularly centered around the forceful conversion of women.Honestly, the storyline is predictable and nothing out of the ordinary. The same story line has been used in so many of the tales of partition that I've lost count.
ينقسم هذا الكتاب إلى ثلاثة أقسامرواية قصائد و قصص قصيرة بالنسبة للروايةللكاتبة أسلوب سلس في رواية اﻷ
Really good.
One of the strangest and most unnerving narratives I've read in a while- especially "The Skeleton", this novel, set during the eve of Partition, and set amongst the conflicts between the Muslims and Hindus make a compelling and disturbing read.
رواية تحكي حكاية طائفية بغيضة ولكنها تنقلها باسلوب سلس جذاب .. اول تجربة مع الكاتبة .. تبدوا مميزة وشكل الكتاب غريب وهو يتنوع بين الرواية والشعر والقصة القصيرة
Belonging from Punjab so it was obvious to heard about Amrita Pritam's works as she has been highly praised for her post Indian revolution literary works.
I have only read Amrita's only this book.
The book is a must for every Punjabi and should for every Indian (off course literary fans).
You should only seek revenge from the people who did wrong to you.However i strongly believe if something people of Punjab or Indians (in addition to regarding this novel as Indian literary work) have learned from it is that nothing.
Long live the work of Amrita Pritam.
Read pinjar
Read as one of the three novels of 'Amrita Pritam - Chune Hue Upanyas'
i wonder when and where i'll be able to find and read this book! the movie looks sooooo good! i really need to watch it. :P
I believed after reading this book that I lived in a small rural village in Punjab, where the dust soaked up to my neck, and people lived the most meager of lives in the most external of huts.
(Coincidentally, after having attended a book club meeting discussing Craig Thompson's Habibi (a graphic novel written by a white American which explores rape and sexual violence in a unnamed imagined Middle Eastern country), it was almost serendipity that I was to immediately pick up a book which tells a similar story, but through the eyes of a native.
For any one who has read this graphic novel and looks for something more authentic, I highly highly recommend picking this novella up.)
Normally, when I read translations from famous originals, the story makes perfect sense, but the language leaves much to be desired.
Especially with Indian authors, many of the translators are just people who know the two languages, and not really artists in either one of them.However, Khushwant Singh was masterful in his use of English & Punjabi.
The storyline is a complex tapestry of human emotion and incorporates elements of the caste/religion divide and the backdrop of partition.
Poignant, this one.The second story is much more complex and conflicted, but I didn't think as highly of it.
To say that this is an exceptional story is an understatement. Amrita Pritam gets straight to the point and doesn't beat around the bush. She paints a bleak yet realistic picture of what it was to be a women in 1940s India; especially during partition. All one could do is sigh while reading it. It is not easy to read. The characters are suffering beyond imagination. However, it ends with hope. The ending is bitter sweet; but perfect. The story also exposes the Hypocrisy of religious fundamentalism. This will always be one of my favorites.
I happened to read this book recently but had seen the movie long time ago.
While the movie was sure great, the book touches chords that not only make you sympathetic towards Pooro but also make you respect the men who go all out to fight for their wife, their sister.The time when this incident happened in history is one that alot of our elders can relate to and have sure narrated stories of the Hindu-Muslim differences and the suffering on both sides.
पहली हिंदी/पंजाबी लेखिका जिसको मैनें पढ़ा. बहुत अलग बात है इनके लिखने में. जिस तरह बातों को कहने का अंदाज़ है अधभुद!अब बात करते हैं पिंजर की. न जाने कितनी दफा पढ़ते हुए इस कहानी को मेरे रोंगटे खड़े को गए थे. जिस तरह दरद लिखा अमृता जी ने, जिस तरह पयार लिखा. मानों उनहोंने कोई किताब नहीं हर पनने पर समुनदर लिख दिया हो, और मैं उसमे डूबता जा रहा हूँ. P.S. - ज़रूर पढ़े ये किताब, और फिलम ने किताब के साथ ज़यादती नहीं की है.
पहली हिंदी/पंजाबी लेखिका जिसको मैनें पढ़ा. बहुत अलग बात है इनके लिखने में. जिस तरह बातों को कहने का अंदाज़ है अधभुद!अब बात करते हैं पिंजर की. न जाने कितनी दफा पढ़ते हुए इस कहानी को मेरे रोंगटे खड़े को गए थे. जिस तरह दर्द लिखा अमृता जी ने, जिस तरह प्यार लिखा. मानों उन्होंने कोई किताब नहीं हर पन्ने पर समुन्दर लिख दिया हो, और मैं उसमे डूबता जा रहा हूँ. P.S. - ज़रूर पढ़े ये किताब, और फिल्म ने किताब के साथ ज़्यादती नहीं की है.
الشخصيات: حميدة( بورو)،رشيدة(الزوج)،رام شاند،لاجوعندما كنت اقرا الرواية تذكرت اني شاهدت الفلم المقتبس منه (pinjar)أمريتا بريتام المتوفية في العام 2005 كاتبة ونسوية هنديةفي هذه الرواية تنقل لنا صراع المسلمين والهندوس ابان اضطرابات 1947 كما القت الضوء على مجموعة من العادات والتقاليد الجائرة في حق المرأة من خلال بورو العروس التي لم يعد لها مكان في بيت والديها بعد اختطافها واضطرت ان تعود الى مختطفيها وتقبلها للحياة التي رسمها لها القدر
Ek marmik kahani jo Desh vibhajan ke samay ko darshati hai. zaada kuch nahi kahunga bas iss kitab ke chand shabdo me review ko khatam karunga ki-"Koi Ladki ho Hindu ya Musalmaan, Jo bhi ladki Lautkar apne thikaane pahuchati hai, Samjho Usi ke saath meri Aatma bhi Thinkaane pahuch gayi."Amrita Pritam ji ke ek aur Umda Rachna.Dhanywaad.
Amrita Pritam pours her heart out in this story spanning from pre partition era to the times after the partition. The pain of the people leaving their homes to go to the other side of the border is beautifully depicted and touches all the right notes in the heart. You can clearly feel the pain and longing of Puro for her family.
الكتاب يحتوى على ثلاثة أنواع من النصوص،الأول رواية قصيرة تعاصر أحداثها الانفصال بين الهند وباكستان وتعالج أساليب التعامل بين الطوائف المختلفة وتعرض لمعاناة فتاة هندوسية تم اختطافها ثأراً.والرواية هي أفضل ما في الكتاب.النوع الثاني هو مجموعة من القصائد المترجمة ولأني -على المستوى الشخصي- لا أحب القصائد النثرية فقد مررت بها مروراً عابراً.أما آخر النصوص فمجموعة من القصص القصيرة وهي إجمالاً جيدة.
A heart touching story. It shows the condition of women at the time of partition. Beautifully written. Recommendable novel...Everyone should read at least one time!
A great piece of art must read for punjabi readers and other also because to understand the past happen to our old generation as from what time they come around...
If you have to pick one human emotion and dissect it to mean a million things, read this woman. Ah Puro!
For Grad School.
pb
A heart wrenching story of the fate of women in a patriarchical and religiously divided India, set in the backdrop of partition.
جزء عبارة عن رواية طويلة ومملة :/ والجزء الثاني عبارة عن قصائد لم أستطع فهم الكثير منها D: ( بسبب الترجمة السيئة جدااا ) اما الأخير فعبارة عن مجموعة قصص قصيرة وهي الأفضل في نظري تدور جميعها حول قضية المرأة الهندية في المجتمع ولكن بشكل ( سطحي ) حيث تتحدث فقط عن وضع المرأة الهندية وكم الإهانات التي تتعرض لها وتهميشها في المجتمع واعتبارها مجرد سلعة رخيصة الثمن يمكن لأي (رجل) إيذائها وإهانتها متجاهله تماما توضيح صورة المرأه الهندية الكاملة ومدى ثقافتها وعلمها ودورها في المجتمع.
الكتاب ينقصه الكثير ليتسنى للقارئ تكوين فكرة عامة وصورة كاملة عن قضية المرأه الهندية بشكل خاص والمجتمع الهندي بشكل عام
