https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80116.The_God_Who_Is_There
It was Hegel who messed it up and introduced irrationality." Thesis: In giving up the hope of rationality, a rationality that is founded only in the revelation of God in Christ, man is plunged below the line of despair.
This line of despair normally moves in the following historical pattern: philosophy → art → music → general culture → theology (Schaeffer 16).
His zeal for evangelism is contagious and he knew how important communication was (45).While Schaeffer fundamentally misreads Hegel, he does get the dialectical methodology of Marx correct (46).
(Thus) instead of antithesis we have, as modern man's approach to truth, synthesis”.Hegel never denigrated logic.
Read this book!
Schaeffer gives his unique analysis of philosophical, socio-cultural and theological trends over the last 300 years, emphasizing Christendom's inability to keep pace with the rapid (and sometimes confusing) changes.
The Christian's solution: to engage the hurting person at the exact point where his epistemological foundation collides with his sense of despair.
He fleshes this out practically in the final few chapters and Appendix.I have yet to encounter a modern-day Christian who cares equally for the minds, hearts, wills and souls of a lost generation with such skill and compassion.
This book has been foundational in developing a vision in me for ministry to the *whole* human being.
From the idea that life is random and chance came musicians and artists who used random methods to create their music and art - Jackson Pollock most well known, perhaps.) And yet, though their philosophy tells men these things are figments, they live as though they are not.
After this the evangelist may talk about our guilt before God and the necessity of faith - but ALWAYS making it clear what he means by guilt, and what he means by God, and what he means by faith, as the world has forgotten that reason and reality and faith go together.
We've spent all this time talking about how the world doesn't, really can't, live in consistency with its presuppositions about life - but are we Christians?
Schaeffer's ideas, apologetics, christian worldview and application of theology are true to God's Word and integral to evangelicalism.
No wonder some of my favorite authors refer to his work often.
Many Christians seemed to have, at the least, forgotten, or worse, intentionally ignored, that the Biblical worldview is complete, that through his Word, God "has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness,..." (2Pet 1:3).
This book reminds us that we can and should take hold of this wonderful, life-giving and hope-building confidence in the God who is there because no other worldview can fundamentally satisfy us.
Schaeffer discusses the shift in the philosophy that has had the detrimental effect of creating a dichotomy between faith and reason.
Most people in contemporary society now view the spiritual and the scientific as mutually exclusive whereas our predecessors looked to discover a philosophy that tied the two together.
Schaeffer points out the inconsistencies that are inherent in philosophies and religions other than Christianity.
The author asserts that historical Christianity is the only holistic philosophy that ties together faith in God with scientific discoveries and historical events as well as providing a reasonable explanation for the human condition.
Schaeffer shares an anecdote about Paul Tillich that stuck with me.
Tillich said that he didn't, but that he meditates.
I assumed that this was because Tillich doesn't believe in relationship with a personal god.
I shared this anecdote with a friend, and she said that she was almost certain that he meditates on scripture.
What Tillich has to offer is less rich than orthodox Christianity, but it is important because he is able to share Christ with people who don't believe in orthodox Christianity.
I think Schaeffer is too hasty in writing off Tillich.
Here is what I learned from this book… Modern man’s philosophy claims man is nothing; man is dead; therefore, man has no meaning, and can know nothing.
It tells us, we might experience something or do something that gives us validity, but we can’t say for certain that we know absolute truth that applies to everyone.
He goes on to show that knowing truth leads to not only knowledge of, but also a relationship with, a very personal, living God if we want it.
It will help us know God as He really is.
There is a crisis of thought. The world is thinking but they are coming to the wrong conclusions. Their beliefs are based on the impersonal and with out meaning. Christian beliefs are rational and defendable. We can see here is truth and here is why. We aren't used to disciplining our brains, ( why I struggled to read this book). I needed a glossary for the glossary, but the more I read the more I understood and I can't overstate the value of what is contained in it.
Booooooooooooooooooo
Excellent
In "The God Who Is There," Schaeffer does a brilliant job of communicating the importance of a logical worldview.
All men are created in the image of God, just because an artist choses to use his creative skills to promote something other than a Christian worldview does not mean he is any less valued in the eyes of God (or in the eyes of his fellow man).
I have always struggled with the sect of the Christian culture who claims the moral high ground and condemns a fellow man.
But the God of the Bible, Old and New Testaments alike, is the infinite-personal God." - p.
How did I get a Th.M. in historical theology without reading this book?
The God Who is There felt like a cutting edge book and not one written 30 years ago by a guy now in glory.Os Guinness is one of my favorite authors and was directly mentored closer than most by Schaeffer.
I've read Guinness criticizing some of Schaeffer's scholarship but I found his arguments and his value for equipping our generation helpful and necessary.
A great book of Christian apologetics.
This is a very relevant book for all Christians.
We were made in His image with personality and therefore can and should relate to God personally based on truth.
He clearly states that a personal relationship with is God is possible because Jesus made fellowship with God possible by His death on the cross.
I can now have a personal relationship with a perfectly holy God who is real.In a day when many say that truth is relative - that your truth may not be my truth.
Can you have a ethical philosophy of life that is based in a metaphysical view that you reject as invalid?
It is Schaeffer's goal in this work to show how it is, at the end of the day, impossible to reject God yet still claim a moral standard that is based in Judeo-Christian roots.Schaeffer shows how the absolutes of theism have been rejected in art, literature, music, and philosophy.
Only Christianity is entirely self-consistent.
The second-most consistent worldview is probably nihilism, but if you take nihilism to its extreme, you cannot inhabit it.
I really appreciated his take on art, and literature and how they fit into our current mindset as moderns.
Especially, his summary of Camus as I have just read a few of his books, and Leonardo dV's mindset.
Eye opening to see how the shifts have taken place, and how much our placement on the time line of history affects our suppositions.While the first section of the book, on philosophy, was not of interest to me, I found the latter chapters very relevant.
Mr. Schaeffer is willing to delve into the "dust" of the current evangelical thinking and "blow the roof off." Oh yeah.
Today after more that 40 years this book is as important as it was when it was originally written. In our post-Christian era Dr. Schaeffer’s insights continue to demonstrate how historic Christianity can confront the false philosophies of our day. Yet his logic and reasoning are simply written and easy to understand.
Schaeffer's diagnosis of our modern world is right on. I love his terminology, especially the "line of despair." There's really nothing I can say. This is a must read for anybody interested in Christian apologetics.
This was very good, but it is much to digest. I will have to read again.
Very helpful. Some of his examples are dated but his works are really helping me clarify how apologetics and evangelism are connected.
Essential reading for any Christian interested in a philosophical apologia of the Biblical worldview.
One of his essential classics. I need to read it again - it's been a long time since I first read it.
Schaeffer critiques modern philosophy6 August 2013 Okay, the edition of this book that I read was published in 1990 which means that Schaeffer must have changed and updated it since its original publication. However, I suspect that despite a few additions to bring it up to date much of what he has written here is very much the same as the original publication. After reading a couple of pages of this book I suddenly came to understand that Schaeffer's writing, and fundamentalist stance, was nothi
There is no evidence that it actually exists, but the idea is to find a formula, or a constant, that applies across the universe on which we can base all of our theories Unfortunately, stepping outside of the fact that God loves us and sent his son to die for our sins, no such universal constant can be found in the Bible so scientists, even though they are Christian, must look outside of the Bible.
He claims that modern Christianity suggests that the scandal of the cross is that despite the horror of the world in which we live, God is good, but that despite God being good, humanity rebels.
But some people still try to "sell" it on those grounds.Instead, this is Shaeffer's discussion of where he felt the average Western secular thinker of the mid-twentieth century was at, and some ideas for Christians to consider in light of that reality.
Schaeffer does not precisely say so, but in light of his Reformed background, I think I can safely say that he figured Christians who truly loved, and who truly opened themselves to others, would receive aid from the Holy Spirit, because the challenge Schaeffer sets is not one people can do very often on their own.
Sec. 3, Ch. 3 touches on morals, and how Christianity says that man is now abnormal as a result of his moral fall; and I couldn’t help but think of the line of poetry from Fulke Greville that is oft-repeated in religious debate: “created sick, commanded to be sound” or alternatively, “born sick, commanded to be well.” Skeptics are put-off by the idea of this being their initial and current circumstance, but the verse is a perversion of the consequence of original sin.
The contrast is described through an examination of presuppositions, the historical radical change from a basic understanding of antithesis to that of synthesis, which formed the basis of modern rationalism, and finally by an overview of the Christian answer to modern humanism's existential problem.As I've written before, Schaeffer is easy to read, but rather more difficult to comprehend.
I especially appreciate his compassionate spirit and his urging to other believers to use Christian thought not as a weapon, but as a tool in order for them to see their eternal crisis and to turn to the only one who can save them.
I've heard much about Schaeffer over the years, but I normally don't read these types of book.
I appreciate fiction, and for non-fiction, I enjoy memoirs and such.
I read this book with a pencil and a dictionary.
While the book is a bit dated, it hold true and tracing the way thinking has changed and how it has affected the culture through art, science and so on was insightful and helpful.
I believe, as Schaeffer does, that Christianity's view of a living, personal God is the only comprehensive worldview that is livable and makes sense.
I try to live that out for others to see, and I appreciated Schaeffer's challenges about how to do so.
He's a pretty interesting man with some comments about our culture worth listening to.
This is the best book I have read thus far at laying out common assumptions we make in our worldview being raised in the modern Western world.
It was very interesting to see how my culture influences how I view what is true and what the character of God must be like.
It was convicting to see how some of the assumptions I make may not actually be in line with how truth is presented in scripture.
Goed om eens een klassieker van Francis Schaeffer te lezen. Gedateerd, maar zeker nog de moeite waard.Een quote aan het einde van het boek raakte me:"This is our calling, not only to exhibit something substantially real to a watching world, but to enjoy it ourseves. I am called to love God with all my heart and soul and mind, and I am called to love my neighbour as myself: each person involved in the proper circle and in the proper relationship." (172)
After 50 years, this book holds up remarkably well. Schaeffer traces the movement of culture and philosophy away from a Christian worldview. The arts demonstrate despair over losing the Christian worldview and replace it with no real hope. He then shows the emptiness of much of modern religion and shows how historic Christianity can speak real hope and peace into the 20th century culture.
Really enjoyed reading this. Though for someone supposedly so influential the Church doesn’t seem to have taken on board anything he said? Really interesting re no agreement on truth or antithesis (but we must lead the unbelievers to the conclusions of their worldviews) Throughout clearly showed his heart for people to know the Gospel
