https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16429619-the-kiss-of-deception
I present you a short version of the book:  Kiss of Deception: A Greek Dramedy . A Dramedy, not to be confused with a dromedary, because a dromedary only has one hump. This story has two humps. THAT'S RIGHT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, WE HAVE A FUCKING LOVE TRIANGLE.The entire play can be set on one stage with almost no scenery changes because I swear to fucking god nothing fucking happens in this book. It is not a high fantasy when the main character spends the entire fucking half of the book preten
It is not a high fantasy when the main character spends the entire fucking half of the book pretending to be a serving maid, daydreaming, and trying to decide which of two mysterious strangers she likes more.Every Greek play has a Chorus.
I'm driven mad with hunger!Chorus: DUDE, YOU'VE KNOWN HER FOR 5 SECONDS.The Assassin and the Prince: *together* Sup, guuuuuuuuuurl!Chorus: GUYS, THIS IS A HIGH FANTASY!!!!!!!!!Act IV:Lia: I'm a waitress!
BERRIES!!!!!Pauline: You're doing great, my lady!Chorus: THIS IS A HIGH FANTASY?!Act V:Lia: I'm a waitress!
“Is he the first boy you ever kissed?” I asked“Who says I’ve kissed him?” Pauline replied mischievously. We both laughed. Girls of the royal staff were not supposed to indulge in such unrestrained behaviours.“Well, if you were to kiss him, what do you think it would be like?” I have a question - who cares?Ugh, this book. I rarely give much weight to fantasy titles. They're almost always called "dramatic word of dramatic word" or "dramatic word and dramatic word", but I realize in hindsight that
And I bet you're still thinking I'm exaggerating and that there were actually things happening in the background (royal politics, drama, etc.) because of course this book can't really be about a waitress and a love triangle, right?
Wrong!Lie #3: Things make sense.Firstly, the prince that Lia runs away from also felt tied to the marriage and didn't want it.
Even in the beginning when he first meets her.There is only one truth told by this boring book and it's the title - The Kiss of Deception.
Two stars. One for each love interest that I didn't care about.
She is tired of always having her life decided, as princesses’ usually are, and the one thing she wants most, love, is up to her to find not for her father to plan.
I couldn’t say which I preferred for they all fitted very well with the story and every character had something to say or makes us see, realize.As for the love-triangle, I didn’t find it too heavy.
Lia encountered some great people that I would hate for her to never see again.Another thing that I loved was the setting.
An advance copy was provided by the publisher in exchange for an honest review.This review can also be found at The Starry-Eyed Revue.Review in a GIFfy -- This can also be found at The Starry-Eyed Revue. FULL REVIEW BELOW.I must admit, I've never read a book by Mary E. Pearson. So when Kristen practically forced her copy on me (hehe), I was all: And then I got to chapter 2, and it was on. Not only is Lia fierce and determined not to be pushed into a marriage she does not desire, but her friend a
Lia's lady's maid and dearest friend sticks with her through thick and thin, and she just may be the Princess's saving grace when all is said and done.The first half of this novel spent a good deal of time introducing us to the characters and it felt more like a historical fantasy novel, which is pretty much what I expected based on the cover and the summary for the book.
It's also one of my favorite aspects of the story:  not knowing who is who and what their intentions are.It's books like this and 
Zzz...DNF...Zzz...After turning page 165 of this book over and realizing that half of my attention was asleep......and the other half was contemplating whether or not I should trim my toenails before tomorrow's pedicure, I decided to call it quits here.
One through three up there^^^ can also be translated thusly:Therefore, I decided that the part where Lia lies to Pauline about something pretty significant was a good place to call it.
I'm not down with lying to people "for their own good," and I didn't feel like dealing with the contrived and predictable drama this lie would assuredly cause.
And when those started to become longer than one page...Pfffft.
Imma need a mani after this book, because it sure was a nail bitter! Whoosh.  Pretty sure by now you all know what the big hook of this book is; you have no idea who the assassin is and who the prince is. I'll let you in on a little secret, I tried to guess and guessed wrong. This story goes between switching Povs with Lia, Rafe, Kaden, the assassin, and the Prince. I'm becoming more and more a fan of switching views in stories, and this story is an added reason to why. Mary Pearson did an exc
This story goes between switching Povs with Lia, Rafe, Kaden, the assassin, and the Prince.
I guess I would say they are both love interest.The second half of this book is WAY stronger than the first.
There is a grave digging scene in this book and it's really what put me on team Lia. It is beautiful and probably my favorite part of the whole story.
Lia is said it have dark hair and the girl on the cover has dirty blonde hair and 2) I felt at some point the writing was a little repetitive and felt like it was just used to fill up some space.
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads2.5 starsLet's talk about first impressions: they are IMPORTANT.If, for example, you start reading a new book, and the first glimpses you get of ALL THREE main characters are less than flattering, you might be tempted to toss said book aside in disgust and hope the next one goes better.Yes. You might.And in this situation, I would not blame you.
Then, despite the obvious unfairness of their situation, stuff happens, they fall in love, and they live HEA.And this makes you happy, b/c SELF-SACRIFICE.But what if Princess is a narcissistic little brat who not only runs away from her arranged marriage, but drags one of her good friends along with her?
If fantasy books are gross insta love with annoying as fuck love triangles and an assassin who can't get his job done because his little dick keeps getting in the way then I'm OUT.
There's literally just a runaway princess who wants to start a fresh life and not be used in a political marriage and then she meets two guys who we need to figure out whether they're the prince or the assassin.
Nothing actually happens until the last couple of pages, which were also, *surprise* boring as fuck and *surprise* I didn't find a third fuck to give about it!!!Princess Lia is a character that was literally more duller and lifeless than my personality.
I loved this book, the atmosphere, the characters, the settings and the descriptions.
Lia is a strong character who decides she wants to live life her way and runs away with Pauline on her wedding day.
Lia had written a letter to the Prince for a meeting before their wedding, I think if this would have happened she would not have been so hateful about the idea, and of course, we wouldn't have had a book!
Lia and Pauline had a wonderful time working at an Inn/pub owned by Berdi.
Were they critically examining the structure of the prose when they determined that the book was only worthy of one star??Were they considering the damage they do when they have a large following and rate a book that is well written but did not meet their own personal preferences expectations only one star?When I think of the thousands of readers out there that would otherwise have loved this book, but were turned off of it by these reviews, my heart literally aches.
I liked this overall, but man, did this love triangle weigh everything down. And STOP SMIRKING, boys. Just stop it.Review to come, when I'm less cranky.
1st read: August 20142nd read: July 20153rd read: August 2018
The basic plot: Lia doesn't want to marry a prince she's never met, so she flees her kingdom with her best friend and ends up in the world's cutest little fishing village where they work as tavern maids.
The story's execution is easily the best part, so I don't want to spoil anything else.Things that worked perfectly:- the worldbuilding is gorgeous and SO detailed- strong female friendships that pass the Bechdel test- MAGIC AND PRINCES AND POLITICS AND CASTLES YES- that freaking plot twist.- the fishing village is one of my favorite book settings ever- so many wonderful, strong characters- I need more main characters like Lia. She's capable, determined, and resourceful, yet caring.
The writing of this book swept me off my feet and transported me to Lia's world.
Her wit and her class, combined with her capacity to feel such emotion came off extremely appealing to me because I was able to understand her, and I really respected every single thing she did in this book; she is a true heroine with golden intentions.
I found the idea of this book to be extremely compelling, and although I enjoyed the first half's suspense better than the last half, the book was filled with emotion and surprises.
4.5 STARSHello there, instant book obsession. Hello there, instant need for sequel.Hello there, instant love for Rafe and Kaden. I welcome you all with open arms, because I brought this upon myself by reading The Kiss of Deception.  Gods above, this book is unputdownable deliciousness and it is totally worth the raves and hype. So this review won't exactly be a review -- my lips are sealed and my hands tied because I'd hate to give anything away from the glorious slow-burn and anticipation this
It still allows you to breathe and analyze, but somehow it traps you in and blocks every attempt at enjoying the book as a light, heartwarming story even though these nuances are present.
I'm sure you've heard some things about it as I'm sure you know there's a love triangle.
Expect everything, because with the plethora of twists (the holy shit kind; Bravo, Pearson!) you'll love both the boys vying for Lia's heart even if one of them will crush your heart in the process.
4.5 Wow. I didn’t expect to like this as much as I did! The premise sounded interesting but I’m very often disappointed with YA romances and even though there were some cheesy moments I ended up going to bed way too late every day until I was done with it!Totally recommend and I will be continuing the series ASAP!
“It can take years to mold a dream. It takes only a fraction of a second for it to be shattered.”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐Lia never wanted to marry a prince, she didn’t even get to meet him before the wedding. So she runs away, from her responsibilities and her own family, to a little town. There she starts to have a real life with her best friend Pauline.But our past always hunts us, and so two strangers appear. But who is who? Who’s the assassin, that needs to kill the runaway princess? And who is the pri
Character ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ „Sometimes the enemy is just one person who will bring down a kingdom.“  We meet a main character, who is fierce and strong and has a stubbornness in herself, that’s filled with love for others, but also herself.
He was a little bit mean and sometimes he didn’t say the right thing.
Will she pick the one that is kind or the one that is a bit mysterious?You know what?
Between the POVs of the characters, there were snips of the history of Morrighan, Dalbreck and Venda.
Don't even think of Kaden, you hear me, Lia?
It won me over almost immediately.➽ I still have to read the next two books, obviously, but I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say that if the story stays this thrilling, and if Lia keeps growing like she did even in this first instalment, this could become one of my favourite series.
I'll try to keep my expectations at a reasonable level, but I admit that I want the next book to blow my mind.
Move aside Daenerys Targaryen...a new badass princess is coming! Kings throw away your crowns. Queens start practising your curtsey. Because Princess Lia is here to show you how being royal is supposed to be done - going on a journey that will tear her apart & put her back together again as she becomes the woman she was always meant to be.She doesn't accept lies or deception. She wants to make her own destiny. And she's so badass it's not even possible to describe the insane amounts of badas
Move aside Daenerys Targaryen...a new badass princess is coming!
Kings throw away your crowns.
Because Princess Lia is here to show you how being royal is supposed to be done - going on a journey that will tear her apart & put her back together again as she becomes the woman she was always meant to be.She doesn't accept lies or deception.
And not only does this book have a brilliantly constructed plot, a badass heroine & a fantastic world of myth & magic, but to top it all off it presents us with not one...but two gorgeous men.
AND IT IS UP!!!!!My video discussion of Kiss of Deception can be found here! Only watch it if you've already read the book. Don't forget to discuss with me in the comments and to subscribe if you haven't yet! Click on the picture below to watch!!! (Yes, there are reenactments)--------------------The many faces of Faye while reading Kiss of Deception...Yup. VIDEO DISCUSSION TO COME CAUSE THIS NEEDS LEGIT SPOILING AND FANGIRLING AND JUST HAND GESTURES TO GET LES POINTS ACROSS.
Fantastic. I LOVED IT. I need the sequel now!!!
Buddy reading with Cait!! Do you hear that? Yes, it's the sound of me crying because I am disappointed. Don't get me wrong, this wasn't a bad book, I was just expecting so much more. I was expecting to be blown away. Oh well. Expectations are the worst, let's be real. “It can take years to mold a dream. It takes only a fraction of a second for it to be shattered.” As the blurb states, princess Lia escapes the day of her arranged wedding because she doesn't want to abide by traditions and she doe
Don't get me wrong, this wasn't a bad book, I was just expecting so much more.
I actually enjoyed searching for clues to find out who's who, and I had the wrong theory until a few chapters before the reveal.
The only thing going was the mystery of Rafe and Kaden's identities, which was revealed at precisely the 65% mark.
Only after I reveal, the plot began and I really started enjoying the book more and actually caring for the events and the characters.
I definitely like Rafe way more than Kaden; both as separate character and as a love interest.
4.5/5The Remnant Chronicles Spoiler Free Series Review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XMS-6...Loved rereading it can't wait to read the sequel!
(hide spoiler)] That one made me sob hard.Also, I’m a huge sucker for languages and I think the author knew what she was doing on that part, that is, adding to the story a foreign language the protagonist learns little by little, and the reader as well, along with her.And, oh, nice touch with the whole The Prince/The Assassin-Who is Who, thing.
This was my beach read this week. Loved it!
Finally finished!! I definitely liked this book, but I'm not in love. (my interest REALLY picked up towards the end though, so maybe the next book will be even better!!) (view spoiler)[ I do like Lia's character and I'm excited for her to learn more about her gift. Also about how she was born out of misery? And how she can apparently control tigers?? Lol really hoping we learn more about that in the second book! Not sure how I feel about Rafe and Kaden and all of that.. (hide spoiler)] Can't wai
Finally finished!! I definitely liked this book, but I'm not in love. (my interest REALLY picked up towards the end though, so maybe the next book will be even better!!) (view spoiler)[ I do like Lia's character and I'm excited for her to learn more about her gift. Also about how she was born out of misery? And how she can apparently control tigers?? Lol really hoping we learn more about that in the second book! Not sure how I feel about Rafe and Kaden and all of that..  (hide spoiler)] Can't wait to continue on with the series!!
Ich bin absolut überwältigt. Und baff. Und verzaubert. Und benebelt. Rezension folgt nächsten Monat auf meinem Kanal :)
"That's it?" This question started to resound in my head, and I nearly lost my reading appetite altogether, were it not for the budding romance between Lia and the Prince.
It saddened my heart to witness them separated, all because of that insufferable Assassin.As I drew closer to the final chapters, my rekindled interest evolved into strong fascination when I noticed how the world building was somehow inspired by Biblical history.
Moreover, Lia and the Prince were left stuck in a quandary, so my heart was filled with rage for that delusional Assassin.
I just love my poor decisions in life.The first have of the book was hard for me to read -it was slow and, while fun, kind unimpressive.
And I liked Lia and Pauline, they were cool to read and their adventures as they went undercover and worked at the inn.I also thought I was not going to like the whole main attractive of the book -the two boys sent after Lia, the prince and the assassin.
