https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/196329.Tao
When I asked Mark about the smell of the book he told me that it had come from a box of the books which were on his boat.....and so it is a treasure to me.His audio is widely available online and I am happy to share incredible lectures I have of him speaking to impressive audiences (IBM Systems Engineers, Southern Methodist University, and countless other churches, and other places of spiritual focus - always without notes and his velvet voice and classic English accent - not only with sense of humor always intact, but his speaking is never tainted with any verbal crutch nor do I recall him ever repeating the same words - even rarely articulating the same concept.
Ha Ha Ha Ho Ho Ho !
.¿Qué es aquello que se aleja cada vez que es perseguido? La respuesta es: tú mismo.
I read this book, Watts' last, immediately after reading The Spirit of Zen, his first. What I got from The Spirit of Zen was to what great extent early Zen Buddhism was influenced by Taoism. What I got from The Watercourse Way was how utterly fucking cool Taoism is. A fitting swan song from the ever-lucid Watts.
Alan Watts acknowledged the irony of him talking and writing about Tao but explained that it was his way of trying to grasp what it is.
Just as grass grows just because..., and a flower blooms just because...According to Tao, man too should try to follow the natural way of things and the path of least resistence.
It is a path of non forcing but flowing with the natural way of things.
However, Emperor Han Kao Tsu that came next ruled with a light touch (only making clear that harsh punishment will be meted out of manslaughter, assault and thievery) and the Han Empire lasted 400 years.I will resist writing more than I should on the subject.
Сега издателство "Изток-Запад" представят за първи път на български друга книга на Уотс - "Дао на водата", която служи като добро разширение на предишната и хвърля повече светлина върху дзен.Във всеки текст, посветен на дзен, ще забележите едно несекващо безпокойство от страна на автора, който не спира да се обяснява, че не може съвсем точно да предаде истинността на този специфичен светогледа.
Сами виждате колко трудно е да се дефинира това, което отрича всички дефиниции, но след известно време и с помощта на книги като "Пътят на дзен" и "Въведение в дзен-будизма", у незапознатия читател започва да се оформя една обща представа.В настоящата книга Уотс обръща внимание на китайските идеограми, които са възникнали от най-прости асоциации с изображения.
This is the book which explaines why it is impossible to foollow the requets like " You have to relax" or "You need to love God with all your heart".
There are things in life which are natural like loving, relaxing, gettinng inspiration.
One can only attune to them and follow the course much like the coursewater.Alan Watts tells that living is turned to such a process by wise men of the East who eat when they are hungry, urinate when they need to pee, and go to bed when they are sleepy.
Watts tells the most simple things with the help of the brightest metaphors.
This was my first brush with the work of Alan Watts, and I have to say it was very intriguing. Not so much because of the content, I read quite some classical Chinese in university and there were no real surprises, but more because of the magnetic personality of the writer that radiates of each page. In the afterword there's an account from the coauthor about the great joy as well as the tragedy in Watts' life, which I found very moving.
The finger pointing to the moon is not the moon, and the Way that can be named is not the eternal Way. Watts knows this well, but points and names for fun anyway (more effectively than anyone else I've come across so far.)
"Just as Chinese writing is at least one step closer to nature than ours, so the ancient philosophy of the Tao is of a skillful and intelligent following of the course, current, and grain of natural phenomena— seeing human life as an integral feature of the world process, and not as something alien and opposed to it.
Only when the human organism fails to achieve an adequate response to its situation is there material for the processes of thought, and the greater the failure the more searching they become...
Watt's final books adjusts the ideas of ancient Chinese traditional philosophically-religious movements such as Taoism, Zen Buddhism, and Confucianism while briefly mentioning some of the most important principles of Christianity, points from Hinduism et.
He said, “May be.” The next day the horse returned, but brought with it six wild horses, and the neighbors came exclaiming at his good fortune.
He said, “May be.” And then, the following day, his son tried to saddle and ride one of the wild horses, was thrown, and broke his leg.
When the neighbors came in to say how fortunately everything had turned out, he said, “May be.”14” "
This is an excellent treatise on contemplative Taoism, that is the way based in meditation and oneness with nature rather than that involved in Chinese alchemical and quasi-magical practices.
I liken it to the difference between a beautiful butterfly in a meadow of flowers compared to a dead specimin pinned to board next to some faded pressed flowers.If this is your introduction to the subject, you should probably read a decent encyclopedia entry first.
If you wish to read more than one book on Taoism, however, this one should definitely be on your list.

T. Suzuki, in the U.S.This was the last book Alan Watts would write, and, in fact, he died before it was widely released.
Alan Watts in, The Watercourse Way, has fully hit his stride as a disseminator of eastern thought to western minds--after a lifetime of struggling with the apparent contradictions inherent in this endeavor.
The Watercourse Way is a must read for anyone interested in ancient eastern thought and/or eastern religion.
But beyond that, this book is just an interesting and engaging read by a brilliantly unrutted philosopher at the peak of his life, as well as the peak of his craft.
Tao: The Watercourse Way, the final work by philosopher Alan Watts, was published posthumously in 1975.
This is the first book I've read that was penned by Watts himself and I was so pleasantly surprised.
The first chapter is devoted to Chinese ideograms, which made perfect sense to me.
And even without the intellectual reasons, the ideograms themselves are beautiful to see.
They are the book's only illustrations.
Following the chapter on Chinese ideograms Watts covers four basic principles of Taoism: The Yin-Yang Polarity, Tao, Wu-wei, and Te. It's the most frank and light-hearted approach to the subject I've yet to run across.


This is a nice introduction to Tao. Alan Watts was probably totally bonkers, and the hippy-style life he lived was one of those chaotic lives you don't know whether to envy or be thankful you've avoided. Insofar as he wrote about the Tao, he did not know Tao (Lao Zu, 56) - there's the paradox and dilemma. He left the book unfinished at his death... and you have the same question in mind: Would it have been improved if he had finished and/or revised it at all? Or is it 'perfect' (i.e. imperfect) just the way it is?
This is the entry into Watts’ discussion of Tao – the Watercourse Way. We, as its adherents, are sailors who work with the wind or like carpenters who work with the grain.In the West, it’s a mechanistic subject versus object world linguistically, conceptually and materially, whereas in Taoist theory “our surroundings” are “a unified field,” with all sorts of interconnections, formed by “the principle of polarity.” Yin and yang are “but different aspects of one and the same system.” There’s no battle, no victim or loser.
Incredible, especially the play between hearing Alan Watts and Chungliang Al Huang; The perspective Chungliang brings to reading Watts is a wonderful meta perspective on the author, and insightful in its own right. The forward and the Afterward, and footnotes made reading the book that much more enjoyable; bringing understanding to the reality of Alan's character and that he has passed away.
Here's a nice train of thought that, I particularly like as Alan Watts seemed to share my own view of Taoism.
More, there's also some nice reflections about the nature of the Tao (can it be seen as a form of pantheism?), the value each can give to the 'I Ching' or, again, the yin-yang harmony and its meaning that make this book, all in all, a short and interesting read, provoking some good thoughts.
Well, as far as I am concerned, I found my background knowledge of the topic very useful and handy while reading him -I don't know what I would have made out of it all without it!
I loved his "The way of zen," although half the time I was lost in his pedantic notes.
However, this work, "Tao: The Watercourse Way" was written in an astoundingly facile way.
Really resembles water movement in its use of words.Its first chapter on Chinese written language was truly thought-provoking.
I had previously sensed his preference of ideograms in his previous works; now here he elaborated on this topic thoroughly.The next chapters were on the fundamental mindset of Taoism (polarity, wu-wei, and te), and I believe reading this text is an apt starting point toward reading the original "Tao Te Ching."

This book is a timeless classic that is both the perfect introduction to Watts and the essential summary of his philosophical exploration. His simple language, clear metaphors, and conversational tone reiterate the points I have seen him reference again and again:- everything is connected- life is meant to be enjoyed- it will all be all rightIt is a relatively short read, yet I found myself going slow and taking breaks so it wouldn't end so quickly. Whether you speed through it or not, make time to read this great work.
I happened to start reading this during a very interesting time in my life. I have read and listened to lectures by Alan Watts, primarily on Buddhism and zen, but this was my first exposure to Taoism in many years. As usual, Watts does an excellent job of bridging eastern and western philosophy while retaining historical context. Now if only i learned Chinese so i could read some of the provided source material as written.
Alan Watts is a very, very good writer. In this book he examines the nature of the Tao. Chapters include one on the Chinese written language; the Yin-Yang Polarity; Tao; Wu-wei, and a chapter on Te. In each of these chapters he examines the concept discussed, providing quotations from the Tao Te Ching and other books to illustrate his explanations. In this way he helps make some very difficult concepts somewhat easier to understand.
A quick read that allows a deeper understanding of Taoism by interpreting its primary texts of Lao tzu and chuang tzu through a western author's perception. A great adjunct for the primary texts.
I'm more or less in love with this man.The philosophy he loved more than the one he was known for, he intended to get that last chapter in to truly express Tao, in perhaps bittersweet irony he never got to do so, thus furthering the misconception that it is too difficult to "get" Taoism.I love you Alan Watts.
I was glad to read this scholarly work delving into the how, why, and what of the Tao, even if its incompleteness (Watts wasn't able to finish it before his death) makes one wish for the "fun and surprises" Watts had hoped to include along with the more academic exploration of the Tao.
This was a book I read for a college philosophy class, but I love it, and pass it around still today. Full of wonderful philosophy and meaning. Not a book to read right thru, but a great bed side book.
