https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118077.A_Hole_is_to_Dig
I read all these old-timey books when I was a kid - this is from 1952 - and came away with all these ideas like, for example, that trains are for wearing bonnets on. (This turns out not to be the case.) But I also learned that and that is true.
A handful of people hate this book flat out...I suspect but do not know that they never made castles out of their Golden Books or gasped at night as they stared into the night sky and thought about how truly small they were as a speck on the crust of a planet spinning around in the universal equivalent of the back 40 of a single galaxy.
It was my first and most enduring guide to life, the universe and everything.
Unlike many adults that I know, I am continuous with my child self.
Those that love this book are too.
My favorite "A lap is so you don't get crumbs on the floor." In my real life (This one, where I am a part-time legal secretary, sleeping in my sister's closet, can't be it.) I write little books like this, with small black and white drawings, in collaboration with children. Charming, playful, and honest. I am having difficulty returning it to the library.
I learned that this book existed over at a discussion of a childhood favorite of mine: A Friend is Someone Who Likes You. This book was published in 1952 and I’m surprised that I don’t remember it as a part of my childhood, but I believe this is the first time I’ve read it.It’s one I think I’d have enjoyed a lot more as a kid, especially as a kid in the 1950s.
I’m not normally a huge Sendak fan but I enjoyed his here, and (if I hadn’t seen his name) I wouldn’t have guessed he was the artist who created the artwork in this book.
Remarkably funny considering it was written in 1952 before funny existed. The illustrations by Maurice Sendak are, of course, fabulous and the text is, too. "A tablespoon is to eat a table with"
This small book with its celery green cover and whimsical but simple drawings is a must-have for the adult with young children.
I understand that Ms. Krauss had children make suggestions and revisions before completing this little novelty.
And with the exception of one minor issue with matches, the content is still up-to-date.Anyone with young ones will realize in a heartbeat that the wordage comes from children:"Arms are to hug with." Of course!"Rugs are so dogs have napkins." Who knew?"Steps are to sit on." Common sense at its finest."Mud is to jump in and slide in and yell doodleedoodleedoo".
And I want to be a little child again, and never grow up, not even to be as old as Peter Pan. Krauss does a marvelous job of editing, while remaining, clearly, obviously true to the children's voices.This time I'm thinking about the artwork.
I can't tell if he's drawn about half a dozen kids over & over, or if each is meant to be unique...
True, there are no children with very dark skin, but there are no "token Blacks" either.
The kids do charm, have personalities, but the art is not the kind that modern readers appreciate so much.
with a simple glance, there doesn't appear to be any rhyme or reason to the "definitions" krauss has put on these pages - but that is exactly why i love it.
for example: "a watch is to hear it tick" and right below it "dishes are to do" - these dictums or philosophies (as it could very well be) are random, simple, and merely a child's truth.
they convey the innocence, warmth, and sincerity in a child's answer as to what and why things are.
and though i've placed it on my "childrens" shelf, i really think it's adults who could learn from and appreciate this.
Nevertheless, I hadn't read it before.
It obviously has no plot, just a series of fanciful definitions accompanied by the first children's illustrations of Maurice Sendak.
I was intrigued by some of the side things going on - odd animals and characters at the sides of pages, the diminution of traditional, restrictive manners lessons in favor of more enjoyable ("Hands are to hold" over "A hand is to hold up when you want your turn") or subversive ("Snow is to roll in" versus "Buttons are to keep people warm") or just common-sensical in a child's world ("The sun is to tell you when it's every day" matched with "When you make your bed you get a star" - and the little girl's response to the latter admonition is "Grr-rr.")
This is one of the books I read at the Maurice Sendak exhibition in the Comtemporary Jewish Museum, San Francisco.
There is a story that the words tell, and there are also layered stories in the accompanying illustrations.
Even for books that he illustrates and does not author, Sendak enhances the rich texture of the text.
Most of his stories and illustrations deal with the horror of the holocaust.This book is simple at face value and deep at the same time.
It tells children what things can be used for, and reminds adults to value the simplicities of life and that what matters the most are usually right in front of us.
I have to admit I didn't really get this book, but my three-year-old son was completely engrossed. I had to take a look at it after reading so much about it in Dear Genius: The Letters of Ursula Nordstrom.
One of the best pictures books I've ever seen. It can be quite poetic, deep and philosophical. I've been wanting to read it for about 5 years now!The ground is to make a garden.Hands are to hold. Arms are to hug with.A castle is to build in the sand.
Sort of an example of 'kids say the darnedest things' about the meaning of words. Some of the definitions were cute, some left me indifferent. The illustrations weren't what I expected from Sendak. Overall, a quick but not particularly impressive book.
For many many months now you have enjoyed parceling out pieces of cake to your reader, yourself, and those in adjacent rooms when you get to the party page. You also love the parade and the jumping in the mud page.
Rugs are so dogs have napkins. A book is to look at. A tablespoon is to eat a table with. A face is something to have on the front of your head.I love, love, love this! I will have to buy this one, to borrow it is not enough.
"The world is so you have something to stand on.""The sun is so it can be a great day."Cosi loves doing the actions associated with the definitions ("noses are to rub" or "ears are to wiggle."). I have never grown tired of reading this.
One of my favorite books of all time. Ever.
I read this on the recommendation of Robert Anton Wilson - a collection of words defined by children too young to have been assimilated into semantic conventions.
Charming illustrations of children doing many things that get defined for the learning toddler.Ages: 1 - 3Cleanliness: mentions Halloween.**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
Another children's picture book, this is rather dated as well. The definitions are thought-worthy, but its entertainment value isn't high by today's standards. And it would depend on the child, as well. Read it for yourself and see what you think.
Fun!
I am going to read children's books in between my Erich Fromm books, philosophy, and weighty fiction. Because while a book holds much information, it is also 'to look at.'
Terrific, wonderful, everyone should have a copy of it! Loved it as a kid, discovered it again in Dr. John Cech's class.
Fun and the black and white illustration by M. Sendak are really cute!
Charming text and art.
This "First book of first definitions" is made up of "suggestions, revisions, additions (and subtractions)" by the author and several children. A cute reader for youngsters.
A clever, funny little book worth a perusal for the cute illustrations by Sendak. Kind of essential for a young reader, in my opinion.
Simple book, if not just a tad confusing in its wording.
The best kids' book, by kids, for every age of reader. This is one of my go-to baby shower gifts.
A sweet book of "definitions" paired with very expressive illustrations by Maurice Sendak.
