https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227986.There_Is_Confusion
If you are a lover of the Harlem Renaissance, this book gives an insightful portrayal of life in Harlem among different classes of people whose lives intertwine in the past, present and future. Ms. Fauset writes as an urban ethnologist who is familiar with the clash of social constructs and the conflicts they produce in the lives of everyday people.
In these two shifts Fauset retreats from the strong feminist argument she had made with Joanna's character in particular to a more traditional representation of women and the possibilities for their happiness.The big question, though, is how all of this relates to the issues of race that the novel raises.
Love is, according to Joanna, "a pattern to guide us out of the confusion" caused by the race question.
Those few characters who attempt to devote their lives to the cause wind up unhappy and alone; the kind of change the "Happy Warriors" described by Philip are meant to create is gradual, generational, relational--not political or adversarial.
3.5, Great novel many layers and ideas about African American life around WW1. However, the ending just read too cookie cutter for me. Love Joanna, but Peter's story was definitely my favorite.
There is confusion is a book about different black families from the 1800's and there struggle and journey through out their lives. This is an incredible book. You can feel the hot air as the two strong men work in the cotton fields, and sense the fear, but courage of each and every slave. I love that the book isn't just tragedy, but a message that tells you you can do anything you set your mind to. Defiantly check this book out if you think your life sucks, because this will show you that hopes do come true.
The title refers to the position of persons of color in that they must face all of the rigors of life faced by anyone else but have color to contend with on top of all the normal challenges. This book was written earlier than the other one I have read by the same author and concerns itself much more with the untenable position of citizens who must face prejudice, and therefore "confusion". In spite of the title, the main characters find their ways through confusion to an acceptable view on life.
I love this book. It is one of my absolute favorites. I loved the introspection of what it means to be a person of color in the U.S., especially at such a strange and tumultuous period in this country. I'm not even sure how to write a review on this book at this point because there is just so very much to the book, so much social commentary. This book is absolutely one that should be read in any survey course of American literature--it should be read by high school students learning Faulkner and Hawthorne and Wharton. Read it!
The characters were largely unlikable and it was very hard to read. The ending was very abrupt and sorta went against everything that the book had been building up to. The book was saved by moments of grace and learning in two of its main characters (Peter and Joanna -- I had no problems with Maggie). Overall it is a novel that is difficult to get into and to stay with.
i probably shouldn't say this, but fauset, when she wrote fiction at least, was the louisa may alcott of the harlem renaissance. this book may be criticized for being too sentimental and/or pedestrian, but i fricking love it and wish it would come back into print.
So much great stuff in this book. A definite text for the diss.
