https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9833.Blind_Willow_Sleeping_Woman
Reading the books of Haruki Murakami (born 1949) is like watching the films of Akira Kurosawa (1910-1998).
The two are the most notable world-known artists in Japan.In particular, reading the 24 stories included in this collection Blind Willow, Sleeping Woman is like watching Kurosawa's 1990 film, Dreams three times.
The 8 stories in the film are said to be based on the actual dreams of Kurosawa.
I read four of his novels before delving into his second collection of short stories, Blind Willow, Sleeping Woman.
The same plethora you will feel when you read Blind Willow, Sleeping WomanAfter all, we all dream, right?
پسر جوان در طول مسیر بیمارستان، به یاد داستان دوست دبیرستانی خود (درخت بیدکور باعث ناشنوایی دختر زیبایی شده و مردی برای نجات او به بالای تپّه می‌رود) و مرگ ناگهانی دوستش می‌افتد.
خانه توسط یک درخت بید کور محاصره شده بود.
در واقع درخت بید کور باعث شده بود که دختر به خواب برود.
At one point he made me a casual offer that if there was any book I wanted an advance copy of that was from one of the imprints under his auspices, I had to but ask and he would find it for me.
THEN, many moons hence, I heard that Murakami was coming out with a new book soon (this was in early 2006, of course).
My hands shook when I touched it.Now for the hitch: Only a few days later, I was to be on my way to a friend's wedding in Portland.
I don’t like it overall, so definitely not 3 stars.1st story: Blind Willow, Sleeping Woman - My rating: 1 starA story about a young man who was living and working in Tokyo, until his grandmother died and he had to go back to his hometown.
I was looking for one significant thing I can find in the story, but I could not find any, so I don’t think I can justify it if I give the 2 stars, so there.17th Story – The Ice Man – My rating: 3 starsA love story between a normal woman and an ice man.
Reading Murakami (Haruki) is kind of like dreaming.
This was a book of 24 of his short stories.
What I noticed is that unlike some short story collections I've read, Murakami has the talent of writing a few first lines that just grab you and make you rush on with the story.
It's like when you dream and all of these seemingly unrelated people and things and places interact and you wake-up thinking 'wow' that was a cool dream.
Although the dream made no sense when you woke up, you can't help but think about it, and sometimes tell your best friend.
Reading this book was such a great experience.
Nevertheless, I enjoyed most of the stories included in this book.People are complex, emotions and human behavior might not follow logic always.
Beneath the façade of success, smartness, attractiveness a person might carry an emotional burden.
Others look up to such a person, might be awestruck or jealous - but the person carries his burden alone.
One can spend a greater part of his life carrying a heavy burden of guilt, fear and grief and finally attain salvation through an unlikely act.
I might be able to look at them in a new light and glean some new insights.
No pude formar un vínculo con estos relatos.
Solo cuatro los considero buenos, entretenidos, que se pueden disfrutar.
Pero los demás me resultaron insípidos, aburridos y pesados, con personajes cuyas vidas no me conmovieron ni me interesaron.
Lo que menos me gustó fue que tuve que transitar en cada cuento por una historia anodina o tediosa y que, al llegar al final, el autor, en vez de darle un sentido a todo lo que había leído (soportado), me haya demostrado que el relato era, en efecto, un incordio inconsecuente.
Algo positivo que debo resaltar es la libertad y la osadía con la que Murakami trató el realismo mágico.
I don’t know if I should nod while agreeing with the fact that we like short stories, but in the darkest side, I was one of the Filipinos who liked to read them.What I really loved bout Murakami was his passion in writing novels and short stories and that was one of the things that in fact struck me after reading his English introduction of the book.
I don’t find it as bad as plagiarism (I don't know the proper term) but I find it disappointing that he only copied some of his works and revising it, like the story entitled Man-Eating Cat, he added the story in his novel Sputnik Sweetheart.
Por mais estranha e diferente que seja a ideia e a história, conseguimos encontrar sentimentos e lugares pelos quais já todos passámos.Uma pérola!
Adorei!"E, neste mundo, o mais assustador de tudo somos nós próprios.
""Todas as coisas deste mundo tem uma razão para fazerem o que fazem...
O vento sabe tudo o que escondes dentro de ti.
E tem de acontecer como se fosse a primeira e a ultima vez." "A inveja é como um tumor o que se desenvolve cada vez mais dentro de nós, sem que ninguém saiba, sem uma justificação concreta.
Murakami's fiction is all about natural presence of the surreal in ordinary lives.
The loneliness and the loss of the characters becomes our own and sticks with us.By far I found "Birthday Girl" with an array of possibilities, a perfect blend of real and fantastical; "A Perfect Day for Kangaroos" with a couple and their seemingly mundane dialogue over a baby kangaroo, aimless; "Dabchick" with inedible palm-sized dabchicks, raw Murakami craziness.I am currently on "Man-Eating Cats", an account of an adulterous couple hiding out on a Greek Island.
This was an enjoyable read, 24 short stories some of them were deeply random and some were great. Most of the story had this really deep meaning that you do not catch right away.
Nevertheless, it doesn’t feel like rushing through them but rather like describing them; not giving a solution but offering a different point of view in case you needed it; in case you didn’t you could just enjoy a nice story.
Murakami’s short stories are far easier to read, to follow and to comprehend, especially compared to some of his books which may take you months to digest and in the end, you never really know if you got the main idea or if there was actually one.
I really loved most of these short stories. It seems like some of them are a bit over my head after some reflection, but they are unique and, as always with Murakami, beautifully written. Highly recommended to someone who likes his stuff, but also recommended if you are looking for a way to get into his stuff. Can't wait to get more into his collection
E c'è ancora gente che quando vuole evadere guarda la TvPer questa volta eviterò di annoiarvi con le mie solite manifestazioni stucchevoli di cieco amore nei confronti di Haruki.Vi lascerò soltanto una profondissima perla di saggezza che ho maturato nella mia innata modestia a fine lettura.
ù_ùMurakami sta al lettore come una donna di vent'anni sta a un suo coetaneo maschio (e sottolineo coetaneo).Ossia: la donna a parità di condizioni afferra e vede cose che l'uomo può appena intravedere solo con l'aiuto di un corso intensivo trimestrale più CD-ROM esplicativo.In altre parole..
I confess most of the stories didn't make any sense to me and this being my first Murakami, I felt a bit disappointed too. But was glad that I could finally finish reading something I had started. In that sense it was a breather of sorts.
me deja pensando que el hecho de no poder encontrar una conclusión o desenlace, permite que la historia continué viva (o tal vez el leer los cuentos haya afectado un poco mi cordura).Hace tiempo que un escritor no me hacía enojar, y es que en ocasiones siento que me dejaba en completa ignorancia, vamos que terminaba de leerlo sin siquiera saber de qué se trataba, sin embargo existen unos que te ayudan a entender el “realismo mágico” , porque te transmiten tanto (como lo fueron para mi Viajero por azar, Hanalei Bay, entre otros más)...algunos me parecían cuentos de terror, un terror psicológico, envueltos en una magia oscura pero al mismo tiempo maravillosa; por recordar fragmentos del El espejo o El séptimo hombre, e incluso Los gatos antropófagos.El único consejo que se me ocurre darle a cualquiera que no haya leído algo de este autor, es que cuando sienta que no logra conectarse con la historia, cierre el libro y espere un poco...
I love short stories and I enjoyed Murakami's Sputnik Sweetheart, so I decided to try this collection.Reading these stories was like listening to a stoned student at some cheap beer joint which is usually full of such individuals.
The plot usually moves in the most absurd direction and suddenly ends, without making a point or leaving any lasting impression.I did enjoy one story, "The Mirror", which was about a school janitor who found a mirror in the basement.
This is a great idea, but like all others in this volume it just ends, and leaves the reader with nothing.
-, ma qualcosa di diverso è stato fatto: in futuro riguarderemo con sorriso a quello strappo dalla monotonia dei nostri giorni.Il tuffetto ★★Beffarda presa per il culo, né più né meno.I gatti antropofagi ★★★Buona rappresentazione della mancanza di certezze in seguito alle svolte più grandi della propria vita; ma, come in altri racconti, la metafora utilizzata è degna del Murakami più trash.Storia di una zia povera ★★★Altro approccio weird per donare dignità a quelle idee capaci di spalancare gli occhi altrui su realtà invisibili ai più.
Perfect Sunday consists of: Coffee & Great book. Murakami does not disappoint.
Definitively I am not a big fan of short-stories. 2* Yesterday4* Town of Cats3* Kafka on the Shore3* Norwegian Wood3* Hunting Knife4* Minha Querida Sputnik5* The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle4* 1Q842* Blind Willow, Sleeping WomanTR After the Quake
Kažkodėl visi labai nustemba, kai pasakau, kad nesu skaičiusi Haruki Murakami knygų.
Haruki Murakami man asocijavosi su žodžiais, kuriuos iš karto sakai kai klausia ką patinka skaityti ir nori pasirodyti "gilus" ir išprusęs.
Bet kai leidykla pasiūlė naujausią jo kūrinį, pamaniau, kad pats metas susipažinti su garsiuoju japonu ir jo kūryba.
Vieni apsakymai buvo visai trumpučiai, kiti ilgelėsni, tačiau visi turėjo kažkokios ypatingos ramybės ar keistos miglos aurą.
Lygiai taip pat vieni patiko, kiti nesukėlė didelių emocijų, ko visada tikiuosi iš apsakymų.
Nors ne viskas man patiko šioje apsakymų knygoje, turiu pripažinti, kad tekstai parašyti labai gražiai ir "švariai".
I really liked some stories, such as the firefly, the one about the surfer, the mirror story and the one about the wave.
My favourite remains however "the firefly" one because Murakami captures marvellously well the gap left by the death of their friend; the resulting proximity of the two who are left behind and their inability to fill each others' empty space.
I just loved it.
And I loved the ending.
She was like the firefly.
She took time to take flight, but when she finally did, she was free again.
Free and beautiful.
A book of short stories. As ever with Murakami we get kooky, left field prose - talking monkeys stealing names or waves with evil intent. Unsettling and thought provoking.For me the collection was patchy, a few stories didn't work, most were fine, and there were a couple of real gems.
O dievai, kaip smagu buvo po ilgos pertraukos paimti į rankas naują Haruki Murakami knygą.
Bet nieko nėra smagiau kaip vėl pasinerti į naujausią autoriaus kūrinį.
Nors pažintį su autoriumi pradėjau prieš kelerius metus, tačiau jo kūryba dar iki šiol man yra mistika.
Naujausias jo kūrinys "Aklas gluosnis, mieganti moteris" yra 24 apsakymų rinkinys, kuriame ir atsiskleidžia Haruki Murakami meistriškumas.
Dalis apsakymų yra siurrealistiški, o kiti žemiškai paprasti, tarsi apie mus pačius.
Jo veikėjai tarsi fantastiniai, tačiau jų kailyje slypi tikri žmonės su savo išgyvenimais bei jausmais.
Ir viskas vyksta šiame pasaulyje: "Pasaulyje beveik nėra nieko, ko panorėjęs negalėtum išmesti.
I worked through this short story collection slowly, over several months. Perhaps it was just a shift in consciousness over those months interim, but the back-half of the collection was much better in quality (with only a few exceptions). Many of these stories were published in English in various magazines, most notably The New Yorker and Harper's from the 1980s to the early 2000s. Highlights of the collection:Birthday GirlMirrorThe Seventh ManChance TravelerHanalei BayShinagawa Monkey**I mentioned this one briefly on Ep 123 of the Reading Envy: Godlets and Forests.
En el avión que el corazón de él construía en lo más recóndito de un bosque lejano.
En el avión que estaba esperando a alguien en lo más recóndito de un bosque lejano.
Siempre es la primera vez y, siempre, ha de ser la última.… 'Sauce ciego, mujer dormida' se compone de veinticuatro relatos; cuentos que, según confiesa el propio autor, son territorio experimental para el desarrollo de sus novelas.Haruki Murakami, como es su costumbre, siembra huellas borrosas sobre la orilla del mar: sueños que empapan la arena de la imaginación.
چاپ پنجم 11/93
I really enjoyed dipping in and out of these short stories. The symbolism and clarity he writes with is unreal. Love this guy.
Which, I suspect, might very well be how Murakami looks at stories, at times.Aeroplane:Or, How He Talked to Himself as If Reciting Poetry - A man is having an affair with an older,married woman.
(It's pretty effectively scary!) I've got a feeling Murakami got a bad case of food poisoning at some point...Firefly - This story ended up being part of the novel 'Norwegian Wood.' I think it worked better in the context of the novel than as a short story - so go read the book!Chance Traveller - Jazz, and coincidences.
24 short stories.BLIND WILLOW; SLEEPING WOMANfraudiospring 2012dip in dip outtbr busting 2012short storiesTried this a couple of years ago however it seems that the timing was not right and put it on the back-burner. This time around gives a 3* and all the Marukami ingredients are in there:Wells - checkCats - checkWishes - checkGhosts - checkEarthquake and storm references - checkFinished: 20/4
