https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79484.Through_a_Glass_Darkly
Seeing the various 1 and 2 star reviews for this brilliant novel and its sequel, Now Face to Face, confirms me in the belief, growing over the past year, that a certain proportion of today's readers are so poorly educated and emotionally blunted that great historical fiction is completely wasted on them.I found the characters in these novels were richly crafted, well rounded people who lived within the beliefs and culture of their time, rather than modern day people plopped into the middle of some imagined past.
It was a delight to read a novel with such a fascinating and flawed set of characters about whom we end up caring so very deeply.
Look -- I don't know much about that period of history, but I really find it hard to believe that one could be so blatantly homosexual and still function as a part of high society in those days, a group which, in this book, included the British royal family (another hallmark of this type of historical fiction -- of course, they're all best buds with the people in the history books, as Sarah pointed out in her review of "March").I actually gave this three stars because, if you're a more forgiving reader who likes historical romance, I could see this being a good read despite its flaws.
Diana is negotiating with the much older but very wealthy Roger Montgeoffry, Earl Devane, and Barbara is thrilled as she'd always loved Roger from afar - although Diana’s insatiable greed might bring those talks to a screeching halt.The path to true love and married bliss is never easy, especially when you have a family as complicated and double dealing as the Barbara’s -it is way too complex to try and explain - just sit back and enjoy the fun.
This is the second time I've read the book and I enjoyed it just as much as the first.
And I remembered it so fondly because I was in France at the time and this was one of the few novels in English that I read while I was there.
It was such a relaxing way to spend a day at the beach, doubly so because all the rest of the time I was there I was having to work in my second language, which I wasn't nearly so strong in.
So, I reread it and it was a very different experience this time.
It's still a really fun and well-written novel, but I remember having a very different reaction to the heroine when I was younger than I did this time around.
The problem is that it is pretty obvious what it is and connects to the other negative.(-) I'm stressed and tired, so I'm just not going to think this much about it, but I'm debating whether this is a bit of a homophobic, conservative text.
It does seem to negatively present anyone that enjoys sex without having a deep, emotional connection to their partner.(-) Hyacinth, Barbara's slave, is an incredibly flat character.
The backstory for this novel isn't that intriguing to me, and while Alice is a delightful secondary character, I'm not very excited about having her as the center of an entire book.
I LOVE drama and this book did not disappoint.Through a Glass Darkly is a novel about Barbara Alderley and is set in England and France in the early 18th century.
Roger was an old friend of her grandfather’s that she has been secretly in love with since she was younger.
Koen paints a very pretty picture through her words and you as the reader feel like you are right there with Barbara through all of her ups and downs.
The love between Barbara and Roger was beautifully written, so much so, that you could feel it in your heart.
Do not despair if old ways look good to you.
Have you ever come across one of those books in which the main protagonist starts out being beautiful, brave, intelligent...in short, all that is admirable in a person...and then, about 50 pages in, said protagonist becomes the brattiest, whiniest, dumbest little kid you've had the misfortune of coming across in the last 20 books you've read?
When Barbara threw a bizarro tantrum and developed an eating disorder because they wouldn't let her marry the object of her childish crush, I wanted to throw the book at the wall.
Instead I continued to read, hoping that the ending would redeem the rest.
...I want those hours back.
Though he is forty two years old and this would be a marriage of convenience, at least on his part, since he is coveting her dowry, some lands belonging to Barbara's family, Barbara has been in love with him since she was a child.
As background to the tortured romance between the two main characters, the portrayal of a France as corrupt and debauched as the last days of the Roman empire, and an England on the brink of a financial crisis created by speculation, insider trading and a bubble that is about to burst, could not be more relevant to our own contemporary times.
Someone called this a "bodice ripper" in another review. Hm -- I think that person needs to read an actual bodice ripper and then think again. I read this on my honeymoon in 1995. It was a book I picked up by chance (I remembered the huge advance Koen got) and I am vey glad I did. It's just a great read with interesting characters and great settings. It's a book I will take on vacation for a reread.
I loved the first two thirds of this book.
Set in and around the English and French courts of 1715/16, it’s a real romp of a read with snobs, bitches, dandies, bawdiness, double dealings, betrayals, scandals, duels, crazy wigs and pots and pots of rouge.
The story may centre around the marriage of 15 year old Barbara to the much older and wealthier Roger, but it’s her mother Diana, the beautiful, slutty, scheming daughter of the Duchess of Tamworth, who’s the early scene stealer, as she screams, slaps and sleeps her way through the first half.
I also adored the Duchess, who’s obsessed with her cats and her dead husband, and matriarchs her family with love and exasperation.
Well this man was deeply, madly in love with his future 15 year old brides grandfather!
Never-mind that he does finally start to fall in love with his 15 year old bride, but once things start looking up for her, he runs into a prince that he had a torrid love affair with.
Plus all the other whoring going on including orgies threesomes (not descriptive like erotica, but not closed door entirely).
while she is deep in depression over this, her husband is walking the clouds because of his love for the prince.
Light and romantic with the historical backdrop and some good characters.
The descriptions are over the top and often drag out for pages when it's not necessary, which is a shame because there are some focused descriptions which were lovely and made me miss England.
I didn't read the last 300 pages because I was already tired of the increasing sexual content and the fact that everyone except for Barbara's grandmother was pretty much immoral and very often mean.
When a book written about the year 1715 has a character blurting, "I shall be right back," you know you are about to get a mixed bag of history and modern culture.
"Being right back" was not a phrase that the 18th century was in any way familiar with.
The book was peppered with these little modern colloquialisms - not enough to cause me to stop reading, exactly, but enough to pull me out of the illusion of the past.
So how did the language itself escape this careful scrutiny?


More in a this-reads-like-a-trashy-book-but-nothing-is-happening way.
Give me witty dialogue, humor, adventure, even just a peek at an unknown corner of the world like fan-making or weaving or astronomy or a character or two to fall in love with I'm willing to forgive.
We're 200 pages in and it's still all largely about intrigue surrounding the marriage contract of the teenage Barbara Alderley, daughter of a disgraced duke.
There is a wealth of well-rendered period detail, but it wasn't sustaining enough given the daunting length of over 600 pages.
Did they read the same book I did?
I would have liked Karleen Koen to focus on a few of my favorite characters a little more but over all I thought it was an enjoyable and easy read.
The history is not the focus of the story but rather a backdrop for the events in the life of the main character Barbara Alderly Devane.
I enjoyed the relationship between the main characters Roger and Barbara, even though I didn't feel satisfied by the course their lives take.
I thought Koen painted a realistic picture of the aftermath of the economic ruin of the South Seas Bubble and how it personally impacted people and their lives.
I was a bit intimidated when I first purchased Through A Glass Darkly because of its size, however once I started reading it I knew I was going to enjoy myself and the length wouldn't be a problem.I found Koen's writing style in this book to be very much to my liking.
Much like in life I sometimes found myself both loving and hating certain characters at the same time based on their personalities or the decisions they were making.My only real complaint with the novel was the ending.
I couldn't put it down, but neither did it give me happy, cheerful feelings.This is the story of the maturing of a young girl, Barbara, in 18th century England.
She has a passionate loving nature and though of the upper class, does not always abide by the typical conventions and standards all the time.
All her life she has been distantly in love with a man who served her very famous grandfather, and one day, her very selfish and broke mother promises to marry her to him.
However, our heroine is determined to marry him and to make him love her.
The results of her determination bring her both happiness, and mostly, sadness.
The reading can go slowly as I'm figuring out relatives and friends, and each position they hold to the main character.Diana has me so furious with her greed, when Barbara wanted to marry Roger I almost stopped reading it.
...But then, we are all sickened by Roger's ways later anyways, accept he continuously holds a place in our hearts due to Barbara's innocence and love for him.Then, after reading...what, some 600 or so pages of this eye straining type, they start to die off.
One by one, after entering their lives and not being able to put down this book each day, I read of their deaths and cursing this infernal book.
But for me, the true strength of Through a Glass Darkly is in its characters: headstrong Barbara, her femme fatale mother Diana, and most of all, her wise and strong old grandmother, the Duchess of Tamworth.
The Duchess is truly an amazing creation--and I was thrilled to see a younger version of her character return in Koen's more recent novel Dark Angels.Other readers are correct when they say that the second half of the novel is sad.
By the end of the novel, Barbara's maid Therese and her page, Hyacinthe, are her true family.
She is fully an adult and in her strength of character, she is the equal of her grandmother the Duchess or her mother Diana.
(Having recently immersed myself in the The Life of Samuel Johnson,The Diary Of Samuel Pepys and Devotions Upon Emergent Occasions, I can confirm that Koen got the spirit of the times just about right.) Well-researched, if maybe too heavy on the descriptions of clothes, houses and gardens.Unnecessarily pornographic.While Koen's major characters are anachronistically twenty-first century, she does a good job at describing the attitudes and mores of more traditional people.
It should surprise no one that people had very different beliefs four hundred years ago, but most authors seem to ignore that, undercutting the verisimilitude of their work.Incredibly poor production values.
Rather than just bad proofreading, I suspect the software was off.Still, a good read.
**********IT'S LIKE NOTHING I'VE EVER READ BEFORE*****************Seriously, an amazing and evocative novel brimming with passion, betrayal, love, heartbreak, sorrow, jealousy, friendship, and those family ties that bind, all neatly packaged in it's historical element.
This epic tomb, is not for the faint at heart.
I would encourage all whom plan to take this journey, to go in with an open mind, abandoning any pre-concieved ideas of love at what it all means.
In a time where the nobility ruled, and greed consumed many, and passion was spent carelessly, Barbara our young, and poignant heroine falls in love.
Spoilers ahead!This book starts out telling you that there's a secret.
But in today's world, every secret is a gay secret, and 20 pages in, when the Duchess of Tamworth feels like there's a rumor she heard about Roger, but can't quite remember, I thought, half-tongue-in-cheek "Oh my gawd, he's probably gay." And then the tongue went farther and farther away from my cheek.This is the second book I've now read where the gay man actually finds himself falling for the beautiful young wife he married for xyz reason, the first being the Birth of Venus.
Ultimately a very sad book chronicling the life of Barbara Aderly of the Tamworth family in early 18th century Britain.
Still, Barbara is a young, enthusiastic girl of 15 at the start of the book and is thrilled when a marriage is arranged to a family friend who she has "loved" since she was an even younger girl...despite the fact that he is 45.
In the hopes of starting over, she sails to Virginia in an attempt to start over.I kept reading this book hoping for the light...hopeful that there would be some hope...some sort of happy ending.
There's something absorbing and fascinating about this book that I can't put my finger on...I suppose I should discuss what I can!
All except the protagonist, Barbara, that is, whom I found the least developed.
Barbara was quite young, however, so some of that is to be expected.
I have to admit, I didn't love the turn of events at the end of the story, but the resolution is still quite satisfying as Barbara really comes into her own and makes an incredibly bold choice.
I wished the book had continued on after that bold choice was made.
Nonetheless, I enjoyed this book quite a lot.
Haha I haven't started reading this yet but I scored a great paperback copy at a yard sale all of 15 minutes ago and Ishie's latest book editions inspired me to buy it. :DEDIT This could have been so much fun but I found it to be boring. I think I would have enjoyed it if it had focused on Diana? idk, it was dull and even the 'shocking' reveal was obvious from the start. I don't really have much else to say about it, sry to say.
Really liked this read...made for a lovely escape!
"Through a Glass Darkly" brings 18th century Europe to life. Full of intrigue, love, lust, life, and death, it never stops entertaining. Anyone who enjoys historical fiction will love this book.
Just wait, sweetie, once you have had your babies and hit mid-life, an arranged marriage with a 20-years-your-senior, titled and wealthy gay man is going to seem like the answer to your prayers.I adore the Dowager Duchess of Tamworth; she has become one of my all-time favorite fictional characters.
I like Barbara's cousins; Mary, and Tony, the young Duke of Tamworth.
As I am a non-partisan lover of dogs and cats I also enjoyed reading about the pugs; they seem very much like some of the pugs I have met during my life.The bad guys in this book are also startlingly realistic.
