https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72363.Film_Art
این کتاب مثل تاریخ سینما فوقالعاده بود... سرراست، خلاصه و گفتن خیلی از مقدمات... چیزی که بیشتر از هر چیز من رو توی این کتاب جذب کرد نگاه نقادانهای بود که شاید اصلا باهاش آشنایی نداشته باشیم... نگاه بوردول توی این کتاب نه نقد خوبی یا بدی یک فیلم که بررسی عملکرد سبک و محتوای اون فیلمه... در کل کتاب خیلی جالبی بود
این کتاب مثل تاریخ سینما فوق‌العاده بود... سرراست، خلاصه و گفتن خیلی از مقدمات... چیزی که بیشتر از هر چیز من رو توی این کتاب جذب کرد نگاه نقادانه‌ای بود که شاید اصلا باهاش آشنایی نداشته باشیم... نگاه بوردول توی این کتاب نه نقد خوبی یا بدی یک فیلم که بررسی عملکرد سبک و محتوای اون فیلمه... در کل کتاب خیلی جالبی بود
I'm rather glad I did because this was an excellent introduction into the field, with a nice balance of both application and theory and wide range of content covered from mainstream Hollywood to obscure experimental films, and from silent classics to modern digitally recorded cinema.Through reading this book I've discovered why modern movies leave me cold, compared to past ones; something I've never really really been able to put my finger on in a technical way.
Even if you're just making youtube videos for fun, reading this would give you a lot of technical aesthetic tools for making your videos seem a lot more polished with no extra time or money cost other than changing the way you handle your cameras and your lighting.
Film Art was my first book on film studies.
I was not yet an avid film students by then, but this book captured my interest so deep as then it made me impatiently waiting for my future film-study classes.
It's not a manual book of film techniques.
This book discusses elements of films (e.g., shots, lighting, color, mood, tone, narrative, plots, acts, genres, hollywood era, and many more), precisely on how they constitue the overall look as well as meaning of a film.
I think, after readers dwell on this book, they won't see the film as they were.
سلام.کتاب خوبی بود.
خوب به این معنی که تقریبا همون طور که خود کتاب ادعا کرده بود با دانش اندک سینمایی هم می شد باش ارتباط برقرار کرد و این به نظرم مطابق هدف کتاب بود و در نتیجه خوب بود.و اینکه کتاب یه دانش پژوه حوزه ی سینمایی رو راه مینداخت و نثر خوبی هم داشت.روند خوب و مثال هایی که اورده بود.
همگی کمک می کرد تا مطالبش عمیق تر و بهتر توی ذهن جا بیافته.بهش پنج ندادم چون توی توضیح سبک ها با اینکه گسترش خوبی داشت اما عمق مطلوب رو نداشت.
برای شروع و برای کسانی که میخوان فنّیتر سینما را یاد بگیرن کتاب خوبیه. فقط یک مشکل داره اونم اینکه با تکنولوژی روز همگام نیست. ولی خوندنش خیلی لذّت بخشه.و یک نکته؛ اگر تاریخ سینما را از همین نویسنده میخوایید بخوانید اوّل این کتاب را بخوانید، چون اصطلاحات را بیشتر توضیح داده است.
برای شروع و برای کسانی که می‌خوان فنّی‌تر سینما را یاد بگیرن کتاب خوبیه. فقط یک مشکل داره اونم اینکه با تکنولوژی روز همگام نیست. ولی خوندنش خیلی لذّت بخشه.و یک نکته؛ اگر تاریخ سینما را از همین نویسنده می‌خوایید بخوانید اوّل این کتاب را بخوانید، چون اصطلاحات را بیشتر توضیح داده است.
Anyone with an interest in film or who likes to watch movies with an understanding of the processes that involve filmmaking, will get something from this excellent edition of a text book that has become the staple of film studies in a formal educational setting.
In Chapter 4 “The Shot: Mise-en-scene”, the Bordwell and Thompson talk about the elusive French term and what it encompasses, covering two of my favorite films His Girl Friday, and 81/2.
Another of my favorite sections is Chapter 8 “Style as a Formal System” which covers how many combined elements such as mise-en-scene, cinematography, editing and sound are combined by a filmmaker to develop a style.
Fun to read :-) Lots of illustrations too, and it enhanced my appreciation of movies :-)
Really Helpful...
Je me sens comme à la fin d'un long voyage parsemé de découvertes dorées ; mais non, je viens juste de finir l'impresssionnant tome de Bordwell (et de Kristin Thompson) consacré au film. Je pense reconnaître en Bordwell l'image d'un enseignant irréprochable - généreux et minutieux, ayant une exigeance entêtée pour la globalité. Film Art (L'art du film, en français, à plus de 800p.) est une épopée charmante qui ne peut que fasciner. 5/5
This author is never boring and has great educational skills. Thanks for teaching me so much about film history!
یکی از مهمترین و معتبرترین کتابها برای کسانی که به مطالعات حوزه سینما علاقه مند هستند.
یکی از مهم‌ترین و معتبرترین کتاب‌ها برای کسانی که به مطالعات حوزه سینما علاقه مند هستند.
Film Art presented a struggle for me.
While the textbook has great organization and breaks up the concepts into thoughtful sections, I have personally not viewed many of the films that the authors focus on in their analysis portion of the text.
I imagine if the reader was familiar with the films included in the textbook, the experience of reading it would be much more beneficial.
For others like me, the authors include many stills to emphasize their point which was invaluable.Overall, the language is accessible and provides a reasonable introduction to thinking more deeply about film study.
يتحتم عليّ الكتابة عن هذا المرجع استغرق ثلاثة أشهر قراءة يوجد به كمّ غزير من المعلومات في كل صفحة من
This book may be a text book but its really easy to read and I learned a lot from doing so.
I am an arts student at university and this semester we are studying video art, this was the first book on our reading list and I almost read it cover to cover!
I found it incredibly helpful to understand the basics on film art and how video is made.
It was also a fantastic resource to look back on when I completed my assignments.
If you are studying video or would like to gain a basic understanding for the art I would highly recommend this book!
Therefore, I think the authors should have removed some of the padding catering to analysis of the films and just outright state that they expect you to have seen the film to able to follow along, it would have made the pacing of the book that much better.
I'm a bit disappointed they dedicated so much time to golden-era Hollywood films, as I'm not generally a fan of them myself, but it's understandable as they laid the foundations for most of the narrative feature films you see to this day.As a textbook, it is useful, but if I were to read about film in my spare time, I think I would have searched for something a bit more unique and opinionated personally.
-Quieres saber más sobre cine pero no sabes por donde empezar.-Quieres disfrutar más de las películas.Es un increíble libro para no sólo estudiantes sino para el público en general.
Very informative, but could be better organized.
I learned a lot, but unless I take notes and then sort the Information it is unlikely to stick to my brain because the organization isn't intuitive.This text needs more headings and signaling of what will be discussed where.
you have to work harder to get the relevant information that you would have to work if the book was better organized.
I bought a used copy of an old edition of this textbook because it was cheap.
two years later, you can probably pick up a later edition and it will likely be worth the update histories
Despite the width of this volume, I devoured it in two sittings. There were some sections that I could skip, so this isn't a review of the ENTIRE book... But if you are studying - or have an interest in - film, this is a great crash course in exactly how it works. Featuring in-depth media terminology, more screencaps than you can count and a brief recap of the history of well, Bordwell and Thomson excel themselves.
Dù được viết từ điểm nhìn lấy Hollywood làm trung tâm, hai tác giả vẫn cố gắng tạo nên một cái nhìn bao quát thế giới điện ảnh. Kết cấu mục lục ở những ấn bản về sau được sắp xếp lại hợp lí hơn. Về bản tiếng Việt thì mình rất trân trọng nỗ lực của nhóm dịch giả và Dự án Điện ảnh, nhưng mà thiệt tình là lỗi quá nhiều.
Now, that's an introduction! A little bit of everything you need to know about the art of cinema. I only wish it had more non-Hollywood information.
Apart from being a little dated this is an excellent textbook. I am using it mostly to help order main ideas for an introductory course in film.
Sinema dersleri basucu kitabi
資料豐富，且無論原版或譯本都會與時俱進：前幾版較可惜因譯者對動畫瞭解不足，許多台灣正式譯介、為動畫迷所熟知的動畫，都隨便安個譯名，而不是用正式譯介的動畫名稱，此問題在向出版社反映過後，新版已有改進。
شگفت انگیز و عالی
As an introduction to reading and analyzing film, pretty darn good.
I watch a lot of films (and the amount seems to be going up and up), but I've learnt about them as I go and reading the market leading textbook seemed to be a good way of putting it altogether, and identifying any holes.
This is the first textbook I've read in a long time, and I was impressed by its utility - its ability to select and explain.
Brand new this is an expensive book, but the ability to buy it at far less than full price are legion.
And if you choose one of these you get a lot of book for your money, not least probably around 1,000 film stills, many in colour.
I have been reading this book out loud to my freshman in college, who as a result of the introductory course in film analysis that this book is the reading for has decided that film study is not for him--but I have to say that there is a lot to be learned from this book, and one of the great things about it is that it gives specific examples of various film techniques from movies that you can watch, and then read the explanation.
The book includes examples from over 200 movies, so watching them all would be a challenge, but it does have two advantages.
Reread (mainly because I was looking for something and the index is not all that comprehensive [and besides, what I was looking for turned out to be in a different book by the same author])Comprehensive, un-stuffy and painless introduction to the world of films.
All the various techniques and how they've been (maybe still are) used.
(note I read a _very_ early [possibly "obsolete"] edition of this book - I doubt it made any difference though, as while later editions seemingly expand the content and include some of the very recent techniques, the overall organization and thrust is apparently very much the same)
Title: Film Art - An IntroductionSeries: -Author: David Bordwell & Kristin Thompson Genre: InformationalRating: 4 stars This textbook on film art isn't as comprehensive as some, but it is as the title suggests: an introduction. It discusses elements of films such as shots, lighting, color, mood, tone, narrative, plots, acts, genres, hollywood era, etc. It provides many colour images to assist with learning, and it is set out in clearly structured format which makes it very easy to read. It has been useful in my studies.
This book was the textbook for my film analysis class. I actually really enjoyed reading it. It was probably the most entertaining book I read all term. Of course, that's probably because I'm a film nerd and I think cinematography and lighting and camera positions and all that stuff is super interesting. Maybe not everyone finds that enjoyable... Either way, I know I'm going to refer back to this book throughout my life and probably my early film career.
