https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/336161.The_Grouchy_Ladybug
How can such a small, little book teach such valuable lessons like friendship, manners and many others. Well, it really does.
“The Grouchy Ladybug” is a book by Eric Carle and it is about how a grouchy ladybug tries to pick a fight with the other animals no matter how large they are.
I also loved the way that there are clocks displayed at the top of the pages of each animal the ladybug meets as it indicates the time that the ladybug shows up to meet up with the animals.Overall, “The Grouchy Ladybug” is a truly hilarious book that teaches a thing or two about the consequences of being a bully and any child who is a huge fan of Eric Carle’s will definitely get a kick out of this book.
Such a cute book!
Pretty sweet book about a pretty pugnacious ladybug. He better not try to fight me or I'll knock his chiclets out! If he stepped to me, first I'd be like "What?!?!":Then I'd be all, "Fool, you really wanna end up like this chump? I'll beat my own dad, I don't give a damn!":Then I'd freakin' eat you and all that would be left is some green gunk cuz I eat fools like you for breakfast:
This ladybug tries to fight a whale...imagine such a thing.
The grouchy ladybug could literally be me when I am deprived of caffeine.
This may be Carle's best children's book.A ladybug with an over-sized ego (and an attitude problem to match) faces off against increasingly larger opponents.
Each creature is politely but firmly prepared to stand up for itself against this pint-sized bully.
A tiny clock appears in the corner of nearly every page, displaying the passage of each hour up until the climax, when the concept is broken down into 15 minute segments.
The hard board book is durable, beautifully illustrated in a vivid pastel/watercolor style, and more dense with words and interactive segments than most comparable works.
Hahaha! I mean I'm glad she learned her lesson about picking on people no matter what size they are big or small. I really loved the artwork. I mean it's Eric Carle so I definitely enjoy it. I think this was a lesson about being nice to people no matter who or what they are because you never know what could happen.
Het lievenheersbeestje dat niet lief deed   *Dutch title Het vervelende lieveheersbeestje zegt geen dankjewel. Hij wil met niemand delen en maakt met iedereen ruzie. Het lieveheersbeestje uit dit boek leert dat je met onaardig zijn geen vrienden maakt. Niemand wilt met je spelen als je niet lief bent. Extra wordt er het verschil in groot en klein + klokkijken genoemd. Herkenbaar voor peuters en kleuters. Leerzaam (voor)lees verhaal.
I love this book and I love the connected universe that the author is setting up.
The only reason that this ladybug is so grouchy is that the very hungry caterpillar ate the ladybug's one apple two pares three plums four strawberries five oranges one piece of cake one ice cream cone one pickle one slice of swiss cheese one slice of salami one lollipop one piece of cherry pie one sausage one cupcake and one slice of watermelon.
This book is about the struggle that a ladybug goes through after being betrayed by her best friend the caterpillar and not trusting anyone ever again.
During the bad tempered ladybird fly towards breakfast he started an argument with an friendly ladybird who he propositioned to an fight but decided not to because he was bigger than the polite ladybird.
The bad tempered ladybird decided to find someone big enough to fight.
Furthermore I believe the message in this story is, it does not take much effort to be polite but it takes a lot of effort to be bad tempered.
This book uses A LOT of repetition so this would be great for a starter reader who needs reassurance.
After reading quite a few books by this author, this is the one for me that really misses the mark. The grouchy lady bug throughout the story goes and tries to pick a fight with various other creatures. Although she never fights, I don't believe that this is the right subject for this age group. The word fight is repeated on nearly every page, so it really sticks into a child's mind. I loved the illustrations but I would not read this book out loud to a child.
I really like how the book is illustrated. The Grouchy Ladybug is one of the most funniest books I have ever read. there are so many concept being taught in this story. children will definitely enjoy this book.
Miss 3 and I normally love Eric Carle's books but the storyline of the grumpy ladybug looking for a fight didn't work for her.
What she did like was flicking the tab like pages and naming the different animals that the ladybug encounters.
It was perfect timing as we've just had some show up and were able to tie the book in with looking at insects at the gardens and how ladybugs are great (because they eat the aphids) and snails are bad (because they eat the vegetables meant for our dinner).
The stubborn ladybug says (a repeated phrase throughout the whole book) that he isn’t big enough.
For the remainder of the book, the ladybug goes around finding other creatures to challenge and continues to say that they aren’t big enough.
I will use this book to engage students in practice with their clocks.
Then I would distribute individual clocks to each student to use during the reading.
While I read through the book a second time, I would have the students display the specific times on their clocks.
The ladybug was exhausted at the end of the day from being so grumpy.
Eric Carle is the master craftsman. Numero Uno. This book was recommended by Arhat's school. I was apprehensive because at first go of my reading I found it little verbose. Little much text than what Arhat's other books have. But bingo! Arhat loved this one. The strength of the book is certainly the graphics (as usual :-)) but what appealed the kid is the content and repetitiveness in the content. This is a wonderful book. Your kid will love this. You will love this too.
The Grouchy Ladybug by Eric Carle is a picture book intended for the ages 4-8.
The Grouchy Ladybug is about a ladybug who is unwilling to share food with another ladybug so offers to fight for the food.
The Grouchy Ladybug is effective in illustrations by keeping the young reader interested as Eric Carle tends to use vibrant colors.
The Grouchy Ladybug would be useful in a classroom to teach adjectives as it full of then from beginning to end.
Overall, The Grouchy Ladybug is appealing to young readers for its inviting illustrations, educational aspects and long-lasting message.
Grouchy is definitely the choice word to describe this feisty ladybug.  The Grouchy Ladybug  by Carle lives up to the standard. The story is wonderful and amusing, the illustrations are delightful. I love that the ladybug meets other animals and they appear in size order and with the proper names. There is a lot of room to have different discussions with kids which is always a bonus.
image hosting software
Carle always does interesting things with the art and layouts, but the stories tend to be repetitive and this may be the most repetitive I have read. I guess it can contain a message about standing up to bullies.
I can totally relate to this ladybug!
This book speaks to me on a deep level, and I think about it every time I get angry and want to pick fights on the internet.
This book was awesome. The grouchy ladybug was acting tough with the other ladybug and as she went on to find someone else who was bigger than her made me think how this story could show a child that there is always someone else bigger than them. Sharing is caring. The ladybug had to go through a lot of animals that were not afraid of her and was ready to fight whenever. I like this book and enjoyed reading it.
This book has the great illustrations of all of Eric Carle's books. The pictures also include little clocks in the corner that fit with the time being discussed on that page and even shows where the sun would be in the sky on the right side of the page. A fun book teaching children that being grouchy is not always a good thing, sometimes it hurts us in the end.
Text-to-Teaching Connection:As a child, I grew up loving to read the "Hungry Caterpillar." I found "The Grouchy Ladybug" while snooping though the library and decided to give it a try.After reading "The Grouchy Ladybug," I had a few good ideas spring into my mind about teaching children about time.
In a kindergarten classroom the book could be a shared reading activity, in which the students have miniature clocks that they can rotate to the correct time as the teacher is reading about the grouchy ladybug.
At the end of the activity the students can share and compare with partners.
The friendly ladybird tries to be polite and suggests sharing the aphids; however, the bad tempered one does not want to do this and suggests a fight.
The pictures are created in a really effective style, because they show the relative size of each animal the bad tempered ladybird meets, culminating in a whale that takes up several pages.
There is also some degree of humour in the story, due to the bad-tempered ladybird dismissing huge animals as too small for it to fight, which would make children laugh, and the whale’s tail accidentally knocking the ladybird back to land!
Summary: This book is similar to "The Very Hungry Caterpillar." It starts out with a grouchy lady bug meeting a friendly ladybug.
The grouchy ladybug wants to eat all the aphids and the friendly lady bug suggests that they share.
Starting at six o' clock the grouchy ladybug goes on a venture to find someone who is big enough to fight him.
Every animal he comes across says "if you insist." But the ladybug just doesn't seem to think that anyone is big enough to fight.
The whale does not say anything when asked if he wanted to fight.
The bad tempered ladybird by Eric Carle This a lovely illustrated book that is aimed at young children between 4-6 I would suggest.
I enjoyed the story as I feel it related to children adapting to sharing in school life.
The story itself begins with a nice friendly ladybird that is eating aphids on a leaf only to be joined by an angry ladybird that refuses to share the aphids.
I really enjoyed reading this book to children as I could relate it to a PSHCE lesson involving playground behaviour.
Integrating into a playground can be a hard experience for children adapting to school life coming from home.
The book has a mini-clock in the corner of each page and talks about what the lady bug did at that time.
I started out the activity by reading the page aloud and then assigning a student to show the time on a large manipulate clock and asked the other kids to give a thumbs up/down if they agreed with the answer.
I then showed them the picture and we checked the answer with what was in the book.
(2) If there is a larger version of this book I'd suggest it or blowing up the clocks larger because a lot of my students complained of not being able to see the clock in the book when I showed the picture.
This story is about a friendly ladybird who is eating and is joined by a bad tempered ladybird who also wants to eat but refuses to share the food with the friendly ladybird.
The story goes on where he meets lots of different animals to fight but he feels that they are not big enough to fight him.
The story ends where the bad tempered ladybird wants to share the food with the friendly ladybird.This book will be good for EYFS and KS1.With EYFS they can look at size-as the animals are getting bigger and so are the pages.
