https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228333.The_Nanny_Diaries
A lot like "Devil Wears Prada," it is just a laundry list of incidents while working for the shallow, designer-clad perfectionist.
What it is clearly the flaw in novels like "Nanny Diaries," and "Devil Wears Prada" is that the protagonist fumbles through the novel lacking any goal or purpose.
Instead, these idealists, cute but not too cute young women lament over the horrors of working for demanding woman and display their own shallowness by painstakingly describing every brand and designer as if reciting some holy mantra.
However, from a cultural perspective it is interesting how we continue to vilify the successful woman and how we must focus on her flaws.
Narodna knjiga i Laguna "tukle" su se oko ovog naslova...
:) Na moju žalost, jer sam tada još bila u NK, dobila ju je NK...
:) Ali ni jedni ni drugi se nismo usrečili s prodajom tih knjiga a zbog "tuče" su nas papreno koštale u autorskim pravima...
Sada posle 10 i kusur godina od tada mogu hladne glave da sagledam neke stvari...
Te dve mlade devojke (koje sam upoznala u vreme objavljivanja ovog romana) bile su trenutni hit...
Zato sam se uvek klonila toga da kupujem knjige za koje sam bila sigurna da ne mogu izdržati sud vremena i čitaoca...
As the story progresses, it becomes obvious that the children are the losers, the parents have no business being parents, and the nannies do nothing to help make the family a better place.
Instead they whine about mistreatment, go along with abuse, and try to replace the parent with their own immature version of love.
The account was infuriating because there was a great deal of truth in it, and it made me so upset (recognizing the same characteristics in children, nannies and parents of my acquaintance,) that I finally refused to finish the last few chapters.
The Nanny Diaries (Nanny #1), Emma McLaughlinتاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و ششم ماه سپتامبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: خاطرات دایه؛ اما مک لافین؛ نیکلا کراوس؛ برگردان: میترا معتضد؛ تهران، البرز، 1383، در 497 ص؛ در این داستان خانم جوانی برای مراقبت و پرستاری از پسر بچه چهار ساله خانواده ثروتمندی استخدام میشود و باقی ماجرا. ا. شربیانی
The Nanny Diaries (Nanny #1), Emma McLaughlinتاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و ششم ماه سپتامبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: خاطرات دایه؛ اما مک لافین؛ نیکلا کراوس؛ برگردان: میترا معتضد؛ تهران، البرز، 1383، در 497 ص؛ در این داستان خانم جوانی برای مراقبت و پرستاری از پسر بچه چهار ساله خانواده ثروتمندی استخدام می‌شود و باقی ماجرا. ا. شربیانی
In the interest of full disclosure, I have a bit of a grudge against any book packaged as chick-lit, the literary equivalent of low-cal fast food.
Not so with this book.
I hated the protagonist just as much as the mother for never standing up for herself or little Grayson, and I found her relationship with the Harvard Hottie (H.H.?
It seemed like the authors were attempting to draw some sort of parallel between their relationship and that of Grayson's parents, i.e., this could be you in twenty years, Nanny, but then they chickened out.
I read this book back when I was in college.
This was actually the very first non-middle grade English book I ever bought!
I had only bought some of Meg Cabot's Princess Diaries before then.
Anywho...I still remember how I was so awed by the writing from the very first chapter: it was so sophisticated for my college-aged-English-as-a-foreign-language-mind.
Too sophisticated in fact, I remembered using a dictionary manyyy times throughout reading the whole thing.
I was tempted to go back and see if it really was that good or I was just awfully deficient in my English at that point in time.
There's the controlling, neurotic mother, the absent father, the evil mistress who leaves her panties in the family's apartment (leading to a hilarious scene where Nanny enlists two of her friends to help her comb the apartment searching for the panties), and a whole cast of nannies who suffer every kind of abuse from both their employers and their charges.
The writing goes from hilarious to heartbreaking as Nanny experiences every ridiculous aspect of the hidden lives of the super-rich.I would also recommend this book to anyone who likes the Gossip Girl series: it's a good opportunity to look inside the same rich Manhattan society, but from the (much more interesting) perspective of "the help."
Awful. I found the plot (if you can call it that) predictable and unimaginative and the characters flat. BO-ring. Wish I could get those hours back of my life. Can't believe they made a movie out of it. Although, if there are as many people watching "American Idol" as they say there are, I'm sure there's a ready audience for the movie.
2.5★sThe Nany Diaries is the first book in the Nanny series by American authors and ex-nannies, Emma McLaughlin and Nicola Kraus.
Then we have parents Mr X and Mrs X, and their four-year-old son, Grayer.
Which is that the nanny often has a much better relationship with the children than either of the parents do.
Nonetheless, her dedication to her four-year-old charge is genuine.
The Xes are, no doubt, an amalgamation of the worst parents the authors have encountered: pretentious, shallow and selfish.
This tale gives the reader some laughs, some head-shaking and some gasps at the behaviour of the rich.
This is what happens when you go to a Goodreads book swap and pick up a trashy book, thinking "Oh, i'll read this on the beach someday, it looks mindless." And then you start reading it before bed one night to rest your brain.
And then you stay up for three hours reading it, not because it's good, but because it has a plot that is clear and fast-moving, and that is more than you can say for all those high-falutin books that win awards for talking about the moonlight falling on a burning rabbit.
It won't win any prizes for writing poetically about moonlight falling on burning rabbits, but I read it all, in two days.
Curse you, Goodreads book swap!
I must say didn't you feel like slapping Mrs. X and shaking Nanny!The abuse of power by the richy rich Mrs. X was amazing, even more so was Nanny taking it and staying.It was touching seeing the relationship between her and 'Grover'. The book left me feeling sad for him and his mother constantly changing his caretakers at the faintest perceived slight.
I absolutely LOVED this book!! OMG..I wanted to kill the wicked Mrs. X! I wish Nan would've had more back bone!! Wonderful & entertaining! Highly recommends!!
Audio #120Sometimes I need a lil chick lit in my life. And this book fit perfectly ILOVED IT LOVED IT LOVED ITthese horror stories can on,y be way too true. And honestly if I had someone hanging around I’d probably ask her to do an occasional errand for me too. I’m terrible. BUT I’d be appreciative. This book showed just how easy it is for people to be taken for granted and how bending over backward for someone doesn’t make her loyal to you.
It’s just frustrating that I found that I liked the movie adaptation better after I’ve finally read this much-hyped story about nannies and their bitch-employers..
Furthermore, I was a little distressed with the attitude of the “parents” in the story, to the point where I almost had to put the book down.
Clearly the authors have experienced a lot in doing nanny duties and they had successfully delivered their story and message to the readers.
Me, what I really liked in the story is little Grayer, his resilience and patience and cuteness and maturity with the situation he was stuck in.
I am so glad that I only pay this book for 50 cents.Yet...I hate it. It is really bore me so hard.I read it till 50 pages, I started to lost my interest in this book.I was likeRIGHT.... BLAH!
I suppose that I am one of the few heterosexual males who actually read The Nanny Diaries, or at least part of it before I wanted to make my own guillotine and start lopping off the heads of America’s vulgar ultra-rich.
No wonder these kids grow up to be date rapists and poorly qualified U.S. presidents.You get the feeling from the book and the movie that you are supposed to feel a sense of awe concerning the lifestyle of the over-privileged cunt.
Now I know I've seen the movie before but I honestly didn't remember much about it.
So going into this book I had no expectations - I just wanted to like it.The Nanny was kind of funny and I did enjoy reading it.
They just didn't seem like realistic parents.
They were terrible ones but again, I doubt any parent would act like them.
I could totally see any kid acting the way he did in this book.
Especially if that kids parents were anything like Grayer's.
He deserves better parents.The Nanny was a likable character.
I loved her relationship with Grayer throughout the book.
Title: The Nanny DiariesAuthor: Emma McLaughlin and Nicola KrausCopyright date: 2002Publisher: St. Martin's GriffinHow many pages: 306 pgsHow long it took me to read: 10 daysCategory: FictionI learned about this book from: Seeing it around Chapter's and then being released as a movieThis book was purchased at: McNeely and RobinsonThis book is: for people who are thinking about becoming a NannyOther books by these authors: Dedication and Citizen girlFavorite characters: Grayer, Nanny, Harvard Hottie and JoshWhen and Where the story takes place: New YorkPlot in a nutshell: Nanny takes a job taking care of a little boy who's parents are completely horrible parents and care more about their money than their son.Main characters: Grayer, Nanny, and Mrs. XWhat I liked best: It was such a good book, I actually WANTED to read it.What I liked least: How true this book is.
I became intrigued on how good those parts so later in that morning, I googled both the book and the authors and I learned that this will soon be made into a movie.
However, after the first third of the book, it became predictable: the Nanny and the previously bratty Grayer developing a strong bond.
The Nanny facing the camera and giving the lecture to Mr and Mrs X.
For me, it is too preachy to end a good story.I am still keeping the two other books.
When I read another depressing story, I will still turn to them.
This book mirrors The Devil Wears Prada, offering a glimpse into the world of Upper East Side WASPs. Like DWP, we see this opulent lifestyle through a college aged woman who grudgingly agrees to work for the upper crust in hopes of improving her career outlook.
It's tiring to read about the self-absorbed (though not nearly as exhausting as working for them).Like DWP, we expect a telling-off of the nasty employers by the end of the story.
In both books, instead of feeling satisfying when the girl finally stands up for herself, it feels empty.
I just got the sequel Nanny Returns which I will be reading very soon, hopefully, with teenage Grayer X seeking Nanny out for her abandonment (her sacking, actually).I live in the Philippines where nannies are widespread because, I assume, everybody needs a career to elevate their lifestyle and to support daily demands in a developing country such as ours.
As a result, nannies tend to be surrogate parents and I think maybe they are sometimes undervalued.
It's their job, sure, but it's a job not even the actual parents can do or have any time for.
The book is better than the movie.
I got really tired of this Mary Sue of a nanny. I've never met anyone so selfless and endlessly caring. Why are we supposed to feel sorry for/sympathize with someone whose problems are pretty much the result of her having No Backbone Whatsoever?The writing is fluid and the book is definitely readable, but it wasn't as funny as I expected. Kind of struck me as COFFEE, TEA, OR ME? with nannies.
This is not at all my usual reading fare, but actually, it turned out to be a lot better than I was expecting. It was not as funny as it could have been, and frankly, some of the characters were markedly irritating, but there was a surprising amount of depth to it, and it did get better as it went on. I will not be reading the sequel, however, as it sounds utterly ridiculous.
Abandoned at 30% mark. I wasn't enjoying it. It's just not for me.
Nanny mendapatkan pekerjaan mengasuh anak berumur 4 thn, keluarga kaya raya dgn ibu berselera tinggi dan fashionista, sedangkan si ayah sibuk berbisnis dan berselingkuh.
Nanny makin terjebak di keluarga tsb, antara cintanya pd sang anak dan menghadapi kebencian akumulatif dari ibu sang anak.Well, saya merasa saat membaca buku ini, dialog-dialognya, terutama di awal-awal cerita, berlompatan sana-sini dan kurang nyambung.
Ironisnya ortu Grayer nyaris menganggap bocah ini spt gangguan yg hrs disingkirkan setiap kali bocah ini melintas di hadapan mereka.
Mereka hanya menganggap si bocah adalah aksesoris pelengkap utk kadang-kadang dipamerkan, tapi selalu kecewa krn merasa si bocah tidak memiliki kepandaian.
She rapidly learns the insane amount of juggling involved to ensure that a Park Avenue wife who doesn't work, cook, clean, or raise her own child has a smooth day.When the Xs' marriage begins to disintegrate, Nanny ends up involved way beyond the bounds of human decency or good taste.
I liked that Nanny tried to stick with it for little G but in the end a person can only endure so much before you hit a wall.
I really like how Nanny went out at the end because you think 'way to go, good for you.'I was happy that after being so tolerant the entire time that Nanny finally spoke up.
*looks at the white board, shakes head and erases number, picks up black marker*DAYS SINCE SPOILERS IN A REVIEW: 0Oh, Harvard Hottie...you made me ruin the run: All because I fell in love with the movie and I had to read the book.
For example: (view spoiler)[ In the movie, Mrs. X finds lingerie in her clothing from the cleaners and assumes it's Nanny's.
What about (view spoiler)[ the moment when Harvard Hottie meets her in the end after she gets fired?
Everything is going pretty well at the start, then the Xes become the family from hell.Okay, I've had this book on my to-read shelf for a while and I finally got around to reading it.
She cried to her parents, to her grandmother, her friends and H.H. Instead of doing something about her problems, she just complains about her crappy life.The only thing I really liked about this book was little Grayer.
It's pretty bad when a four-year-old is more mature than his parents.Overall, I was very disappointed in the book.
"Where is the child in this home? Where is the woman in this mother? And how, exactly, am I to fit in?" 4.5 stars. I loved this book very much. It is sarcastic, funny, heartfelt, frustrating and sweet.Nan is a 21 year old student at NYU who takes a job as a nanny for an upper eastside Manhattan family. The mom (Mrs. X) is high strung and high maintenance, and prefers to take a 'backseat' parenting role. The father (Mr. X) is never home, has a roaming eye and a short temper. And then there's the
"Where is the child in this home?
4.5 stars.
It is sarcastic, funny, heartfelt, frustrating and sweet.Nan is a 21 year old student at NYU who takes a job as a nanny for an upper eastside Manhattan family.
The father (Mr. X) is never home, has a roaming eye and a short temper.
And then there's the son, Nanny's charge, Grayer.
Despite being mistreated, overworked and underpaid, Nan falls in love with Grayer and becomes a surrogate mother figure for him.
I only deducted .5 stars because our narrator seems to be 99% snark and only 1% emotional human being at times.
I picked this book up because I wanted to see the movie.
I hate to see a movie that's based on a book if I haven't read the book.
The Nanny Diaires appeals to a wide audience, I think, for one reason: We've all had a dead-end job with a demanding boss we hate, frustrated because we're waiting for life to begin.
Although I was very involved in the story and did enjoy the book, I felt the story weakened with each chapter.
The ending was very unsatifying to me, which is perhaps part of the message: the nannying world takes no prisoners and shows no mercy.
