https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11184888-the-book-of-american-negro-poetry
One of my favourite poets, James Weldon Johnson, edited this anthology of African-American poetry, which was published in 1922.
I was impressed by this collection and the vision that James Weldon Johnson had in compiling it; he desired African-Americans to be proud of their heritage, and he realized that one way for this to happen is to introduce the world to their poetry.
No people that has produced great literature and art has ever been looked upon by the world as distinctly inferior.” I was introduced to an array of poets and a diversity of writing styles and topics.
The final measure of the greatness of all peoples is the amount and standard of the literature and art they have produced.
No people that has produced great literature and art has ever been looked upon by the world as distinctly Inferior."I really liked these poems "Two Points of ViewFROM this low-lying valley; Oh, how sweet	And cool and calm and great is life, I ween,	There on yon mountain-throne—that sun-gold crest!
Loometh and cometh Hate in wrath,	 Mailed Wrong, swart Servitude and Shame with bitter rue,	Nathless a Negro poet’s feet must tread the path	 The winged god knew.Thus, my true Brother, dream-led, I	 Forefend the anathema, following the span.
You can get this for free for your e-reader you know. Even from Amazonian overlords.
This book, published in 1922, was one of the earliest, if not the first, anthology of African-American poets.
It has nearly every important Black poet of that generation and previous except for Langston Hughes (who would not publish his first book of poetry until 1926) and Countee Cullen.
He also has a good selection of poetry in here.
In the end I recommend this to everyone for historical value but also because dialect aside a good selection of these poems are pretty good and it shows people poetry with Black people did not begin with "The Bus Boy Poet".
This is a great book of poetry!
The beginning "preface" is more of a combination history lesson, critique and introduction of the poets that was a lot longer than I expected.
The author even says that while he intended the preface to be short, in the end he decided there needed to be background to the poets and their poems as well as "Negro poetry" itself.
While it was a bit long, I did enjoy reading the preface as I learned a lot.
The poetry in this book is wonderful to read.
Some poems have plenty of levity, while others take on a more somber tone.
BeautifulWhat a great compilation of poems and prose. Such a diverse group of writers. This book paints a clear picture of pain, loss, celebration, and love in times where little hope could be found. For all people interested in black history, this is a must read.
To understand ourselves we need to see the truth of our past and poets have a way of cutting into those truths in a way that essays and lectures don't often reach.
These poems reach the heart of men and women dealing with oppression, love, joy, anger, sorrow, faith, and all things that encompass what it means to be human.
Sadly it showed me just how far we've yet to go in educating our children of the fullness of our history, of our collective history as Americans, and embrace ALL the passion, hatred, love, and humanity of us all.

Released in 1922, The Book of American Negro Poetry was the first black literary anthology published in the United States.
He discusses the concept of cultural appropriation decades before the term was coined and provides a critical in-depth survey of black American poetry from Phillis Wheatley through the current Harlem Renaissance.
The poems themselves are incredibly diverse, exploring not only racial topics but also themes of nature, gratitude, romance, religion, and simply everyday life.Some notes on the LibriVox audiobook: Lynda Marie Neilson was terrible.
She's a white Canadian trying to read poetry written in vintage AAVE and the result is just impossible to listen to.
A great book of poetry!!!
James Weldon Johnson, African American author, educator, lawyer, diplomat, songwriter and civil rights activist, and early leader of the NAACP (1917), is a favorite writer in poems and his anthologies.
God’s Trombones remains one of my all-time favorite collections of spirituals of black culture.This book will not be shelved.
This morning, I read again for the umpteenth time, Dead Fires: If this is peace, this dead and laden thing, Then better far the hateful fret, the sting.Better the sound forever seeing balmThan this grey calm!Is this pain’s surcease?
Better far the ache, The long-drawn dreary day, the night’s white wake, Better the choking sigh, he sobbing breathThan passion’s death!
Great range of themes, emotionsI think this work is indispensable. I was introduced to many poets, and had a wonderful time looking up their histories, careers, politics, activism, and other writings. Anyone who's interested in poetry would enjoy this book. Topics range from the merits of a family meal to the injustice of slavery and the joy of freedom. Many Biblical and mythological references, too.
This is an early Negro Poetry anthology. James Weldon Johnson's insights are spot on. He traces African American poetry from slavery through the pre-Harlem Renaissance. It has a couple of surprises: Claude McKay and Louisville poet Joseph Seamon Cotter, Jr. (Cotter Homes).
This collection of poetry provides a necessary and enlightening voice in history too often missing in Western Literature. The poems successfully capture a time, place, and people; none of which should be forgotten.
This book changed my life at an early age. I LOVE poetry and always have. In the beginning of finding that love I was introduced to the poetry of my ancestors and that I will never forget. For me it was emotional, funny, and a learning experience through the poetry of my kin!
Enjoyed tremendously It is no wonder that these people of color can relate their pain so vividly as most of the poem's were written during Jim Crow days.What is more wonderful are the poem's of sheer joy that are here published.
This collection was amazing. I can't believe that these authors and poets aren't required reading in history class or English during high school. As it was I only knew of one author and now I so very much want to find more works by many of them.
Read: Paul Laurence Dunbar, James Edwin Campbell, Daniel Webster Davis, James Weldon Johnson, Fenton Johnson, Claude McKay, Georgia Douglass Johnson, Countee Cullen, Langston Hughes, James David Corrothers, Jesse Fauset, Anne Spencer, Sterling Brown, Helene Johnson
I hate the title and the introduction is patronising and uncomfortable but the poetry is just great.As an historical document it offers insight into another time.
It's good if you can get passed the spelling
I enjoyed the poetry. Some of it took a bit to get through due to the writing style however, once I was able to get through the spelling, each one was fantastic.
