https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/700143.Miracle_at_Midway
Their aesthetic development is pathetic.It's taken all these long years for me to get around to actually reading a book dedicated to the Battle of Midway.
Fought on June 4, 1942, six months after Pearl Harbor, Midway is now considered to be the turning point in the Pacific War. The Japanese navy, after years of running untrammeled, got pummeled by the Americans and lost four aircraft carriers.
Miracle at Midway is the "sequel" to Gordon Prange's classic telling of Pearl Harbor, At Dawn We Slept.
نبردی که در طول اون ارتش ژاپن برای اولین بار در جنگ جهانی شکست بزرگی خورد و این شکست کمر نیروی دریایی ژاپن را خم کرد و در نهایت باعث از دست دادن کنترل در دریاها شد و در نهایت باعث شد آمریکا موفق بشه به خود ژاپن حمله کنه.کتاب دقت فوق العاده ای داره و چیزی که برام در طول کتاب جذاب بود دقت نویسنده در روایت داستان و مقدار تحقیقاتی که لازم بوده برای رسیدن به این همه اطلاعات انجام بشه بود.
جالب بود ببینیم یک نیروی نظامی چطور شکست میخوره.
Mr. Gordon Prange likely had the ability to visit all three Admirals due to his own civilian assignment to Tokyo on General MacArthur’ staff as a civilian working G2 Historical Documentation of the Post Second World War era – oddly enough he also studied at the University of Berlin in 1935/36 and had witnessed firsthand live speeches by Corporal Hitler.
The section of the book that was most interesting to me was when the battle began and the accounting that Dr. Goldstein and Ms. Dillon take in pursuit of the work left behind by Mr. Prange.
Admiral Isoruku Yamamoto's audacious Pearl Harbor attack plan was executed with precision, but the victory was not complete because the United States' aircraft carriers were not in port.
The initial attack would be conducted by task forces consisting of four of Japan's fleet carriers from Pearl Harbor: Akagi, Kaga, Soryu and Hiryu.
This day almost led to complete disaster for the Americans, however, when almost all of the aircraft from two squadrons of torpedo bombers were shot out of the sky without inflicting any damage to the Japanese ships.
An example from page 224: "When the carrier force sighting report reached Midway, the word sped out to Sweeney in the clear, reaching him when he was about 200 miles from original target...
The search took a surprisingly long time, and before he could enter the picture, the Fates had added yet another "eye of newt and toe of frog" to the witches' brew they were stirring up for Nagumo." But aside from that, a book well worth your while that will remind you of yesterday's forgotten heroes and their very improbable victory at Midway.
Miracle at Midway by Gordon W. Prange, Donald M. Goldstein and Katherine V. Dillon is a fascinating read for those of us who have a passion for all things WWII. What made this such an interesting read for me is the way in which the authors presented the Midway experience from both the American and Japanese perspectives. And if you read this book, you will see the detail and planning that went into this battle--strategy by strategy.
We really owe our liberty, nation, and way of life to the men who fought and died at this battle. Just as important as "Operation: Overlord." Wonderful book!!
This book was very informative, and well written! I love it that it told how the battle of Midway went from both the American and Japanese prospective, as I believe to get the best understanding of history it's important to know how all sides of a battle felt and what they went through.Until I read this, I'd never read a book about the Battle of Midway. I learned a lot from this book! I would totally recommend it to history lovers of this era!
I always knew "The Battle of Midway" was the turning point of the theatre of the Pacific War; however, after reading this well documented book, by both opponent's records, diaries, and maps did I come to the decision that the American victory was not just sheer might, will, men, and intelligence operations, but truly an overall miracle!
This is a read for historians and military enthusiasts, because it is heavily footnoted, referenced with quotes, and a minute by minute account from both Japanese and American records, veteran's diaries, and interviews with the three main U.S. Admirals: Nimitz, Spruance, and Fletcher immediately after and again, twenty years after the battle.
Probably the definitive account of the Battle of Midway, told from the perspective of both sides.
The Americans depended on surprise as they knew the Japanese were planning to attack Midway and could position their carriers past the submarine cordon the Japanese planned to establish to catch the carriers sailing from Hawaii once the attack began.
Still, even with this advantage, a certain amount of luck was required as the Japanese force was much stronger (4 carriers to 3 plus a substantial escort force).
The side that sighted the other side's carriers first would have a big advantage.
Took a while to get through. It should not be your first book about Midway. Detailed in the extreme, it feels like a worthy sequel to At Dawn We Slept. There is at time too much information to keep straight but still there are plenty of moments that will stay with me forever. A Japanese commander going down with the ship whilst singing their national anthem brought me to tears. Every mention of Genda made me sit straighter and pay more attention.
Still the Best Account of the Pivotal Pacific BattleI've read this book many times, over many years. I know the story but still enjoy the telling. Meticulously researched, on both sides, it tells an incredible story of the David and Goliath encounter of a small but forewarned American fleet versus the much more powerful Japanese fleets. The outcome was truly a miracle as the title states.
I really enjoy reading the Midway story, so I have read quite a few of the Midway books. This version, by far, is one of the best in telling the story. It's easy to read and covers the perspective of the two opponents. I really liked the use of radio messages, diary excerpts, and official messages. They brought the sense of realism to the forefront. Anyone that is interested in hearing the complete and detailed story of the Battle of Midway will truly enjoy this book!
It was very informative, but the language wasn't what I wanted out of my history books. There was too many passages extolling the American virtue and Japanese overconfidence. I find I prefer Walter Lord's style, where it's just what people experienced, with no commentary. If you want a book about the battle of Midway, read Walter Lord's Incredible Victory.
This book offers an extensive look at the Battle of Midway. It was fascinating to read and offered plenty of interesting stories. However, this book might be better for someone who is already quite familiar with the armed forces, because there were many times when the author referred to terms that I didn't understand.
Another masterpiece from Mr. Prange!After reading the author's book on Pearl Harbor, I had to read his book on Midway! He artfully wove the threads of various sources int a compelling narrative. The author approched the Battle of Midway with an even-handed clarity. This book is a must read for WWII history buffs!
This is a superb history. I've never got around to reading Prange's At Dawn We Slept, but I love the balanced view of this book, the depth of understanding he brings on both Japanese and American forces.
I've read a lot about this battle but still learned enough in this to make it worth my time.
Well documented from both the US and Japanese sides. I never realized how inferior the US equipment was compared to the Japanese.
The use of interviews, archival work, etc. by Prange makes this a solid book that I enjoyed reading.
I loved it back then, and I appreciate it even more now with the perspective of adulthood, a college education (International Relations for undergrad, Military History for grad school), military service, and world travel experience under my belt.The authors describe the battle, and the buildup to the battle, in vivid detail and with a sharp-witted, highly readable writing style.
Moreover, Prange & Co. analyse the senior and junior leaders on both the American and Japanese side in terms of not only their fighting prowess but in very human terms.RANDOM STREAM OF CONSCIOUSNESS NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS:--p.
50-51: Ugaki typified the hubris and victory-flushed conceit that affected most of the Japanese military's senior leadership (Admiral Yamamoto was a notable exception to this).--p.
The Japanese tried to accomplish three goal simultaneously: the invasion of Midway, an invasion of the Aleutian Islands, and the destruction of the American Navy by drawing the entire Pacific Fleet into an engagement with a far superior major Japanese force.
So the question is how were the Japanese going to destroy the American Fleet at Midway by drawing it into the Aleutian Islands?
The glossary of abbreviations in the Appendix was not very useful in the Kindle edition, because it's almost impossible to navigate back and forth between it and the main body of the book.
Yamamoto is also credited with a number of mistakes: failure to designate the true objective of his attack: occupation of Midway or destruction of the American fleet; division of his forces and lack of communications between the four separate fleets that participated (including the Northern Fleet, which attacked the Aleutian Islands).
Although Spruance was not an airman, he had the calm collectedness, the intelligence and the foresight to make the right decisions at the right times.This is an excellent book for anyone wanting to know the details (from both the American and the Japanese points of view) of the Battle of Midway.
And while the book often looks at the battle as if through a microscope, it never gets too heavy with jargon, and the author consistently pulls the reader back from the details in order to take a broader view of the big picture.
While reading the book, the reader gets onto the bridge of a variety of ships, into the planes of both American and Japanese pilots, and even into the submarine that sunk the U.S.S. Yorktown.
This book has been sitting on my bookshelf for thirty years; I should have gotten around to reading it a lot sooner.
Miracle at Midway is a thorough history of the June 4-7 effort of the Japanese to simultaneously seize the most likely U.S. approaches to the Empire and lure the US Pacific Fleet into a general engagement wherin it might be destroyed in total.
Midway is one of the more important battles of the second World War, at least for Americans: just six months after the humiliating surprise of Pearl Harbor, the Pacific Fleet had utterly reversed its fortunes, destroying in a day the pride of the Japanese imperial fleet.
He made very good use of his own and other historians's in-depth interviews and correspondence with key American and Japanese individuals who participated in the battle and also of official records from both sides.
The basic story has plenty of drama and getting the Japanese side of events plus hindsight from both sides were real benefits.
This early in the war the American navy had very few assets to commit and a poor record in previous fights against the powerful, confident and well-trained Japanese.
The Battle of Midway was clearly the most important battle of the Pacific War. Up until that point, the Japanese had been having their way with an unbroken string of victories.
The Doolittle Raid was the pinprick that brought the Imperial Fleet to Midway and even that battle, in its earliest stages, was unfolding much in favor of the Japanese.However, in just a few minutes, dive-bombers from the Yorktown and Enterprise devastated three of the four Japanese carriers and in that instant turned the entire balance of power in the Pacific around.
The fourth carrier, now outnumbered by the three American carriers, was sent to the bottom later in the day.Miracle at Midway is a focused and factual account of that battle.
Another detailed analysis of a major WW II battle - this time it's Midway, the turning point in the Pacific war.
True to his form, Prange does not fail to deliver the in-depth analysis of the battle and the mindsets of the participants.
He provides only a cursory review of the operation of Joe Rochefort's "Hypo" group which played a signficant role in American preparedness for the Midway operation.
Is this because he believes Rochefort's role has been overplayed, because of a desire to avoid too much detail, or another reason?
No other gives both sides of the battle in as detailed and telling a manner." --Chicago Sun-Times  Six months after Pearl Harbor, the seemingly invincible Imperial Japanese Navy prepared a decisive blow against the United States.
Nimitz dealt the Japanese navy its first major defeat of the war.
This "stirring, even suspenseful narrative" is the first book to tell the story of the epic battle from both the American and Japanese sides.
Miracle at Midway reveals how America won its first and greatest victory of the Pacific war--and how easily it could have been a defeat.
This book details the battle of Midway in June,1942.
It relates the battle from both the Japanese and American sides.
It details the Japanese planning and their objectives in attacking Midway.
The Japanese navy had had unbridled success so far in their naval operations.
The United States had the advantage of breaking the Japanese naval code, but were severely undermanned entering the battle.
Japanese mistakes and and American fighting spirit combined with some luck on our part resulted in an American victory.
Extensive research in Japanese and American naval records, as well as extensive interviews from participants on both sides makes this an excellent book on the battle.
