https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4095139-commando
Reitz manages to accomplish this deftly with an engaging style that is a great pleasure to read.Tactics used by either side of the Boer war reveal an obvious polarity.
Reitz’s simple and approachable style invites the reader into his shoes to experience this duality firsthand, subtly imploring the reader to ask important questions of him or herself.Reitz continues this psychological battle by exploring the duality of justice in war.
Reitz appears to be creating a double standard when it comes to fair conduct in battle, giving us yet another example of duality.Reitz’s writing is the only aspect of this book which does not present the reader with a duality.

This is first hand account of the 2nd Boer War from the perspective a young Boer soldier. The book is well written and the account shows the hardships of both conventional war and the guerrilla war that was fought thereafter.Considering that this book was never written in the authors first language, it was a huge achievement.This is a great read if you are into historical accounts from a first hand perspective.
The narrative of (later to be) Colonel Reitz who, as a 17-year-old, fought against the British in the Anglo-Boer War, and 30 years later commanded a British Regiment in France. If you have ties to South Africa, this book will be of interest to you as it is packed with history.
I cringed at the names mentioned in this book, Smuts, Botha, so reminiscent of SA's more recent horrific past (somehow I could not get myself to go beyond their more recent connotations).
I found this book certainly interesting historically, the dynamics of the Anglo-Boer war explained in detail from a participant observer.
The Boers in general come out here as tough, resilient, hard and certainly key in shaping this wonderful nation called South Africa.
I couldnt help but think that so many of the descendants of these men - Coetzee and Malan, to name but two - helped shape the literature of this nation.
Absolutely fantastic. One of the most capable and brave Boer commandants wrote this memoir. Everybody who would like to more about the Boer War should read this. Also, Thomas Packenham: Boer War and memoirs of Jan Smuts.
Uitsluitend de bijna 18e eeuwse bereidheid van Reitz en zijn maten om enorme ontberingen te ondergaan van het leven in het "velt", in de openlucht, met alleen een paard, een Mausergeweer en een dunne deken om onder te slapen, maakt dat de Boerenkommando's lange tijd konden blijven opereren en de Boeren weliswaar de militaire kant van de strijd verloren, maar aan de publicitaire kant punten scoorden.
Het is dat wij weten hoe Zuid Afrika na de Tweede Wereldoorlog de Apartheid in is gegaan om het boek niet een veel mooier einde te geven.Het derde deel van het boek is boeiend als Reitz beschrijft hoe hij in Madagaskar probeert een bestaan op te bouwen, met enorme ontberingen die met een dagelijkse vanzelfsprekendheid worden beschreven.Kommando, van menne en peerde in het Afrikaans lezen voegt veel toe.
It would make an epic motion picture or TV series as Reitz's escapades, adventures and narrow escapes which make for great reading would make for great viewing.
This is the only book I have read three times - at 12, at 20 and 46.
In the foreword Field Marshall JC Smuts states the book embodies the romance of South Africa, a sentiment with which I agree, but it is a romance with a regrettable amount of blood, suffering, tragedy and bitterness which we have amazingly been able to transcend and forge a nation from our warring factions.
There is no better way to immerse yourself in history than by reading a first-hand account. I loved Reitz's gritty truthfulness, giving you an insider's peek into the hardships he endured as a Boer soldier in the Anglo-Boer War. It's incredible that he was involved in so many campaigns - Natal, the Orange Free State and the Northern Cape, which gives you a sweeping sense of the drama of the war. A hallmark of his writing is his unflinching honesty. I really hope this book gets made into a film soon - it deserves it.
This is a violent, tragic and moving story of men fighting against the British Empire, to defend their land... a lost cause for these soldiers, but an incredible courage and an unbreakable tenacity they had. This war was one of the first modern conflicts, with shells, dynamite bombings, concentration camps (created by the English !!) and scorched-earth strategy... Well-written and vivid storytelling styled. To my opinion a masterpiece of military history. Hail to the Boers.
A seminal work and a must read to capture the spirit and the way the Anglo-Boer War was fought from the Boer perspective. Written soon after the end of the war it is highly descriptive and an east read. I was left with an over whelming feeling of admiration for this man, his views and impartiality.
Also read Packenham. Both books are insightful and well-researched.
One of my favourite books. A must-read for any South Africans, or those with an interest in the Anglo-Boer war.
Deneys Reitz was 17 at the outbreak of hostilities in 1899 and fought through the entire war before going into exile in Madagascar in 1902 (rather than sign the declaration of surrender), where he wrote this account of the war.
Paradoxically, the other quality that he clearly demonstrates is typical Boer stoicism in the face of adversity and hardship.The main events of the war are recounted from a first hand point of view, as the Boers initially engage in conventional warfare and suffer a number of defeats, before switching to conducting more of a guerrilla style insurgency.
I'm a connoisseur of war books and there are very few on the Boer War from the Boer perspective but this wasn't my favorite.Reitz did not capture the experience in my opinion.
It was more a collection of events told from a largely stoic perspective.
It's hard to describe but I didn't feel the passion and experience of the Boer warrior from this book, with the exception of Reitz losing his horse and his apparent compassion for the animal victims of this war.
Reitz captures that well, which leaves his book lacking any depiction of objectives, details and reasons for the tactics the Boers employed.
Wonderful AccountingThe Boer Wars were a dark blot in English history and an unwinnable war from the beginning for the Boers. Outnumbered, outgunned and lacking armaments the Boers fought with heart and conviction. This book written by a young Boer warrior emphasizes the effort and "will to win" attitude that kept the well-equipped English army looking over it's shoulders for several years.
A moderate Boer wrote an exciting account of guerilla warfare against the British while marooned on Madagascar following the war. From getting dominated on the battlefield to being part of the Smuts guerilla campaign, this is a fast read that is light on politics and more about life on the run.
The Boer War - what really happenedA fascinating recollection, by a young man of 18, of what really happened during the Boer War. Still interesting now.
Fifth time I have read this book - I love it more every time. One of the great books to come out of South Africa's tragic past.
One of the best and most compelling war autobiographies I have read.
Great history A must for all South Africans . A great snap shot of the boer war from a man of men
He remained in the field engaged in fighting the British until the very end of the conflict in 1902, serving as a secretary during the final negotiations.It is not necessary for the reader to have much if any familiarity with the Boer War. This is not a book of grand strategy or political intrigue; rather as a autobiography of a common soldier it is a personal and intimate account of coming of age in battle and war.What may surprise many modern readers are the conditions under which the majority of Boers served during the war.
I enjoy memoir because it usually takes you away from dry recitations of facts and lets you experience history thru the the thoughts and remembrances of people who were there.
He tells of the early days of the conflict where armies faced off against each other in more typical European style and then once the Boer's got the worst of that they moved to guerrilla tactics because of the significant numerical superiority the British had.
The author relates a number of battles where people around him were killed or injured including friends and fellow soldiers of long experience.
One of the best and most vivid firsthand accounts of a personal wartime experience I have read (and I have read many).
And possibly the most exceptional from the Second Boer War - Winston's adventures notwithstanding.
It is a young man's perspective and thus naïve, but nonetheless, compelling.
It throws a personal light on the more stilted (and political) accounts of the various generals, notably Smuts, under whom young Deneys rode.
It was also written on the cusp of that moment when war tilted from misguided gallantry to horrible blood- and mud-soaked slaughter - so its values seem to echo those of a distant, forgotten age.
An absolutely fascinating personal account of a scorched earth genocidal war mostly forgotten and wholly irrelevant by today's contemporary lights.
This is not about strategy and tactics although those are found here, this is about one man's willingness to fight for his freedom against an oppressive world power willing to indulge in torture and concentration camps just to ensure its access to wealth.
This is about introspection and observation from the viewpoint of a participant not a officer, not a correspondent and not a non-combatant.
Just goes to show that few fictionalized characters can match real life or at least real life under unique circumstances.
What a great book of derring-do. I'd love to know more of Reitz; he is a real Boy's Own hero. The book gained my respect in the way he described his enemy - the British as honest and humanitarian. He did not vilify or condemn them for their actions. General Roberts and Kitchener with their scorched earth and internment camp policy were criticised for lengthening the war and strengthening the Boer resistance by those action: a fair point. Well written and interesting to follow his journeys on Google Maps
Reitz was certainly a hard-assed bastard, fighting wars in South Africa during the turn of the last century at age 17. The book details some of the battles he was in as he was starving and reduced to fighting while wearing nothing but a blanket and homemade sandals during the winter when the British cut off his supply lines.It's a good biography, but it doesn't contain much direct information about his individual gunfights or tactics.
A fascinating and very readable account of one man's experiences and adventures in the Second Anglo-Boer War. Covers events that were untouched by history in my school days.I enjoyed it so much I'm now reading his WW1 account, and plan to read his post-war book too.
A wonderful book of adventure in war-time. Also important as a historical source.
A really great book to read when travelling in South Africa.
