https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2343374.The_Tyranny_of_Words
This book is his synthesis of his reading in this area over a 3-year period in the mid-1930's.
However, the area it tackles is terribly hard: how do we communicate meaning accurately, particularly as the level of abstraction of our ideas increases?
As such, it illustrates the struggles of a young field to define itself, explain its subject matter, develop its methodology, and contribute to human communication.
It introduces their referent-reference-symbol model to explain how easily we miscommunicate: many of the word-symbols we use do not have clearly specified referents (identifiable real-world objects), so speakers and listeners reference different concepts and therefore misunderstand each other.
To date it's the most informative book I've come across on language and spoken communication.
As a writer and speaker this book sets a foundation for communicating new information to another person or group.
How to take in information and understand nonsense from utility.
It clears the smoke of spellbinders and mystics, philosophers and economists where words hang in the abstract, with different meanings & interpretations to each person, and thus no referent to the natural world.
And here communication fails us because the more abstract our speech, the less we understand what one really means.
His last main idea is the usage of Mathematics as an aid in communication.2) This leads over to the next point, which is actually an application of Einstein's theory of relativity to the philosophy of language: Chase says that words can never have an absolute meaning - simply because the referents aren't absolute: Take the idea of length.
Mathematics can help in defining words and concepts because it acknowledges the relative matter of concepts by expressing them in terms of other concepts: Area = Length x Breadth.3) The third big point made in the book is illustrated by Odgen's triangle of communication: It basically says that there is no direct connection between symbol and referent (real-world thing the symbol or word refers to).
The Tyranny of WordsThe book was first published in 1938 (my copy was published in London at that time, strangely enough) and I don't know how to edit the Goodreads text that says it was published much later.
The economic and social issues of that day often remain the issues of this day ( Fall 2008) Often while reading I ask myself “ Why are you writing like this?” .
I have finished the book now and I'll give it three and a half to four stars.Getting toward the end of the book now and he spends a lot of time on economics re: Marxist and Capitalist “word traps”.
One can see echoes from the past in today's economic and political problems, which Chase masterfully shows stem partly from problems with communication and using dogmatic absolutes.
Every person considering himself or herself on the "left" or the "right" politically (especially on the fringes, and I've been on both sides) should read this, as it's a good warning as to the disastrous results of using a single- or two-valued approach to thinking and communicating instead of a many-valued or infinite-valued approach.
Even though the book is 75 years old (1938-2013), it is still enjoyable, readable, and, maybe unfortunately, relevant to today's world.
I am currently on chapter 6, this book is a bit difficult to read since some of the words are not on my daily vocab; so I have to take the time I come across each new word to me and write it down the look up the definition.
I have been taking notes as I progress through the chapters and have a list of a few other experts in the field of Semantics and neurology to follow up on once completed; three of these being C.
I'll have to look up more info on word magic and Semantics once completed with this book; great read so far.
This book introduced me to Alfred Korzybski's General Semantics (GS).
One of the most important precepts of GS is that any abstract word without a clear referent in the physical world is deemed essentially meaningless.
Guided by this and other principles of the discipline, Stuart Chase gives and critiques examples of misleading or meaningless language in economics, politics, literary theory, science and law.
I found this book to be an easy-to-understand (and well-written) investigation of the limits of spoken and written communication.
After having read it, I'm convinced GS can help me clarify not only my writing and speech, but also my thought.
I thought it would be a lot about psychology but its about Reality, about the real world that we live in.
A lot of things that we talk about are in abstraction and much of it has no referents in the real world.
The author mocks the intellectuals that can talk endlessly on Law, Liberty, Equality, Capitalism and the like.
We need to discard bad language using which we talk about ideas that have no referents in the real world.
what is it refering to in the real world ?
This was my first exposure to Mr. Chase, it was recommended me by various sources as I delve into General Semantics. I find it likely that it will be my last Chase. This book did not chalk my cue stick. There were a few tidbits which were worthy of jotting, but the entirety of extracted material was not in sufficient proportion to its 350+ pages to warrant a positive review. In my opinion, Mr. Chase's mind is not a necessary partner in the quest for 21st century enlightenment and I do not plan to pursue a further relationship with him.
For somebody who is trying to expose the tyranny of words, the author uses too many words. On a serious note - the book makes sense. Our language is severely lacking, and most of the time talk but don't communicate. I wish we had one universal language and its okay to use abstract words but they should not be mixed with reality.
Most of the text so far seems dedicated to illustrations of the points he's trying to make, but these illustrations are redundant and long-winded (and not necessarily based in reality). I just read a set of pages that could have gotten their message across with 1/8th of the word-count. The word-to-content ratio in this book is too skewed for me to deal with and I give up.
The last 100 pages of this book were really hard to get through. It all of a sudden became very boring to me especially when it came to economic and judicial word abstractions. I enjoyed the first 300 pages immensely, and that is why I rated it 4 stars.
EVERYONE SHOULD READ THIS! No questions ask, just go buy it now. You'll probably need to get if offline; I think it's out of print. It will teach you invaluable lessons about the words we use to communicate and how they should be used.
A great introduction to the basic logic behind semantics, this book also gives an interesting perspective to the United States just before WWII.
The book introduces Semantics to the reader. A discipline that decontaminate a thinker's mind, and, leaves one Intellectually Humble.
