https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1110.The_Broker
The novel follows the story of Joel Backman, a newly pardoned prisoner who had tried to broker a deal to sell the world's most powerful satellite surveillance system to the highest bidder.
Backman then covers his escape by pretending that he is resuming his old life, then quietly disappears and presumably returns to Italy.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوم اکتبر سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: سوداگر؛ نویسنده: جان گریشام؛ مترجم: قاسم کیانی مقدم؛ سبزوار، امید مهر، 1384؛ در 400 ص؛ شابک: 9648605386؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی سده 21 مریاست جمهوری آمریکا، در آخرین ساعات حضور خویش: در کاخ سفید، حکم عفو جنجال برانگیزی را، در دقایق آخر، برای: جوئل بکمن، صادر میکند.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، داستان در موردِ «آرتور مورگان» رئیس جمهورِ آمریکاست که بعد از چهارسال ریاستِ جمهوری، به طرزِ مفتضحانه ای در رقابت و جمع آوری آرا از رقیبش «کریتز» که دوستِ و همکار صمیمیِ او بود، شکست خورد و تنها در ایالتِ «آلاسکا» رأی آوردرئیس جمهور بعد از سالیان سال خدمت کردن به مردم در پست ها و مقام هایِ گوناگون، اکنون آهی در بساط نداشت... لذا به او پیشنهاد دادند در ازایِ دریافت رشوه حکم عفو و آزادی یک زندانی معروف به نامِ «جوئل بکمن» معروف به " سوداگر" را صادر کند... و از آنجایی که نزدیک به 1
لذا به او پیشنهاد دادند در ازایِ دریافت رشوه حکم عفو و آزادی یک زندانی معروف به نامِ «جوئل بکمن» معروف به " سوداگر" را صادر کند...
و از آنجایی که نزدیک به 15 سال از مدتِ حبسِ «بکمن» باقی مانده بود و خبرنگارها و مردم ممکن بود به این موضوع شک کنند و سر و صدایِ زیادی به پا شود، قرار شد رئیس جمهور که روزهایِ آخر ریاستش را در کاخ سفید میگذراند، مخفیانه به جزیره ای در "کارائیب" پرواز کند و پس از چندماه برایِ همیشه و برایِ ادامهٔ زندگی به "آلاسکا" سفر کند و در آنجا در کلبه ای زندگی کرده و باقی عمر را به ماهی گیری و استراحت بپردازد‎از طرفی «بکمن» که رئیس جمهور با قدرت و نفوذ او به ریاستِ جمهوری رسیده بود، از اطلاعاتِ سری زیادی آگاه بود، که باعث میشد خیلی ها در اندیشهٔ قتل او باشند...
Because it's Grisham, the characters are always interesting and the writing is always great.
There were a lot of instances where I thought Grisham was beating around the bush.
But, this is an espionage thriller of some sort and there were quite a lot of dull parts.
I had already gotten bored and my mind was already filled with thoughts about how I wasted my time.
That being said, I still think that Grisham's sub-par work is better than most out there.
If you're a Grisham fan then read this.
You're better off reading his other books.
I finally found a Grisham novel that I don't remember reading before!
Then, the authorities of various countries sit back and monitor him as they wait to see who will get to him first.....This was a great read and kept me hooked until the end.
The danger the main character was in felt real and exposed the potential power plays going on at the highest levels of American government and within the intelligence systems.I wasn't as interested in the well researched history of Italy and the various Italian words and phrases that are included in the narrative but this might be a bonus for some people.As with most of Grisham's books, there are a few swear words, some violence and some sexual innuendo.
There is nothing grossly offensive or especially graphic.An entertaining read.
Recommended.Check out my John Grisham Shelf!
“He had a brain, cervello.
He touched a hand, mano; an arm, braccio; a leg, gamba.” The trees cut down for this book would have been more useful for toilet paper purposes, but nevertheless, not wanting to begrudge the book its value as in-flight low-grade soporific entertainment, one can best suggest to leave it on an airport bench somewhere, with a forewarning inside for its next unsuspecting reader.
At this point Grisham's editor - he does have one, I presume - should have sent back the manuscript and told his celebrated author to toss all pages from 14 on into the garbage and not only rewrite the book, but rethink the story.
While I belong to the 1% of Grisham's readers who thoroughly enjoyed learning to speak basic Italian right along with Backman, I was expecting a thriller, not a language lesson and tour guide to northern Italy with an emphasis on Bologna.
Second, how is killing Backman going to help the CIA get what they desperately want, which is JAM?
This is another novel in a long line of great books by John Grisham.
You know it's going to be a fun book when the CIA is leaking someones whereabouts just to see who kills him.
This book had me guessing how it was going to end until it was over.
The characters in this book are well rounded and well developed.
It seems that Grisham takes great pride in developing the characters and the settings of his books and it shows.
If you are a mystery fan or a Grisham fan then this book is a good read for you.
Am a fan of John Grisham and if am not mistaken I have read almost all his work starting from "A time to kill,The firm,The pelican brief,The runner way jury, The client and so on and so forth.John Grisham don't disappoint.
It starts promisingly.. Then it gets repetitive and reads like Italy's tour guide instead of a thriller. Even the ending seems too far fetched & implausible.
The Broker gave us a little preview of how the decisions go into process inside the government legally and (surprisingly…not!) illegally.
It began with a Washington power broker-lobbyist and a lawyer, Joel Backman.
Joel Backman now finds himself out of the prison in the middle of the night, bundled onto a military plane flown to Italy to begin a superficially new life.
He began having a new name and mysterious "friends" who will teach him to speak the language and to blend in with the people in Bologna.The Broker is not a very good book but I don’t hate it.

It's all part of a plot to get Backman killed something that basically just requires getting him off US soil and letting his enemies take care of it.The story starts powerful and tense, Backman isn't a hugely relateable guy but his underdog status makes us root for him, its horrible to see the machinery of the CIA and other nations spy networks work towards his demise.I did the find the plot petered out however.
(Of course the name of the book is Broker, so it makes sense Backman doesn't solve his problems with high stakes action but I think the problem was there were no moments in the 3rd act of the book that made me think 'oh no he's not going to make it')
As i start to read it, it felt like i was the main protagonist and i was commiserated with him.The book is about a big-time lawyer called Joel Blackman, which is entangled with goverment secret and some strange coincidences, involving White House, the secret agencies of several countries (CIA, FBI, Mosad etc.) and a group of hackers.The writer narrates in the third person , so his way , does not potentially confuses, the reader.After six years in prison for illegal possession of confidential documents, Joel Backman, suddenly gets pardoned by outgoing President , after a request from CIA.
The first, somewhat sluggish half is immersed in Italian lessons before gaining traction in the exciting second half. 8 of 10 stars
The Broker is by far my favorite, thanks to the Italian setting.
I considered counting how often the main character drank espresso or some other delectable Italian coffee drink but decided not to, as I was trapped on an endless toll road with days of indifferent McDonalds lattes behind and before me.
I liked the main character and most of the secondaries and this was one of those books you really want to end all tied with a bow.
Once again another excellent and thrilling novel in John Grisham's collection. Unlike his usual writing, The Broker veers slightly away from the law and attorneys, and drags readers into a sea of political mayhem. This is a great book, really fast-paced and a quick but worthwhile read.
Once I sit down to read one of his books, I'm there for the long haul.
I never know what will happen next and can't wait to find out how it happens.Joel Backman did a lot of bad things.
He brokered deals, moved money, oh and he had these disks.
Joel might have done those bad things.
I thought about him and the secondary characters long after I had to put the book down - because I fell asleep.
That's a great thing.If you want a book that's got twists, turns and a plot you won't forget, then this might be the book for you!
This is probably my favourite of Grisham's books, despite a smattering of sentimental cliches that make me desire to inspect the brains of some fairly central characters with a fire poker.
She looked away, through the window, and said, "I have so little to smile about."This type of thing, along with the rhythm (wretched) of most of his prose convinces me that Grisham ought to be a screenwriter, not a novelist.
Yet, with his characters flat and his prose poor, I'm still reading him due to my inability to pass up fifty cent books when coins are comingling with the pens in my pocket.
The Broker has a painfully slow start, a nice middle and a preposterous ending.
Το λάτρεψα.
Και την ιστορία του μεσάζοντα και τη γραφή του Grisham.Ήταν το πρώτο που διάβασα από αυτόν το συγγραφέα, ενώ παράλληλα γεννήθηκε ένας νέος έρωτας για τα δικαστικά μυθιστορήματα που γράφει.
Το συγκεκριμένο το κατατάσσω στην κατηγορία γυρνώ-τις-σελίδες-μέχρι-να-φτάσω-στο-τέλος.
Μη το κοιτάς, αν σου αρέσουν τα βιβλία που ανασκαλεύουν κρυμμένα μυστικά μέσα στο Λευκό Οίκο, αυτό είναι το βιβλίο σου.
Αν πάλι δε ξέρεις αν σου αρέσουν αυτά, αυτό είναι το βιβλίο σου και σε αυτή την περίπτωση- ήρθε η ώρα να μάθεις!Εύκολο βιβλίο, χωρίς να απαιτεί ιδιαίτερη συγκέντρωση σε βάζει αμέσως στη δράση!
5 αστέρια από εμένα και καλή ανάγνωση!Μ.
indulta, presionado por la CIA, para que la agencia de inteligencia pueda averiguar quién (o quiénes) tienen la intención de ponerle una bala en la cabeza.Como todo lo que escribe Grisham, esta es una historia entretenida, que se lee bien y sin muchas trabas, pero carece de suficiente profundidad en los personajes, llega a ser inverosímil en la frialdad con que el abogado enfrenta los problemas, que muchas veces ponen en riesgo su propia vida, y cómo llega a conclusiones importantes para el desarrollo del libro.Lo anterior es salvable, frente a varias otras debilidades que tiene el libro, como personajes sosos y líneas argumentales que no se cierran.
He llegado a pensar que Grisham pretende hacer una segunda parte porque deja sin resolver muchas cosas importantes.¿Es un libro recomendable?
If I wanted a tour guide for Italy or a tutorial on learning Italian, I would not go to John Grisham. Once we get past that nonsense, the book picks up and gets quite interesting. The ending left me wanting for more and wondering if Grisham has a sequel in the process for Joel Backman. 6 out of 10.
This book started of slow but picked up half way through.
Put yourself in a new country, state, city and do not know a soul, the language, where you are. Now try to keep out of sight from those watching you....wee...the ride is on and the writer keeps the words flowing so the pages keep turning. What a good book all the way through. I could not help but cheer Joel/Marco on.
Many readers are disappointed and say this is a slow book that Grisham wrote just to have an excuse to spend more leisurly time in Italy, and that he spends far too much time describing details of Italian towns and Italian language that are totally irrelevant to the plot.I adore Grisham, but it's all true: after the first few chapters, that I found gripping and intriguing as ever, Grisham's fast, punchy writing comes to an almost complete halt, when the main charachter arrives in Italy and he starts taking in all things Italian so that he can blend in as much as possible.
John Grisham throughout his career had this weird affinity for Pakistan/Pakistanis, many of his minor characters featured in his books have been Pakistanis.
But in it, Pakistani characters graduated to the main plot.
The novel was serviceable, although more drama than a thriller.
But ever since the Rainmaker Grisham has forgone the thriller format altogether and writes mostly in a contemporary general style entirely, that's fine.
Speaking of this book, like him I like all things Italian too.Two things, the dude on the cover is John Grisham and in this book, he makes this really funny crack about Dubya that had me laughing.
he is a notorious power broker who has been in prison for 6 years for security after a deal went sour and one of his contacts was murderedbut this pardon was organised by the cia who want joel out of the way, permanently, but not before they learn his secrets and this will be made clear by whoever moves into to kill him joel is now marco living in italy and trying to blend in whilst his handler looks after him and a student teaches him italian until the time is ripe to leave him on his own but joel is not stupid and he is determined to outwit everyone, regardless of nationality.
I definitely must be spouting off too often and too much about the undercurrents and underbellies of political world.
This is the second time since the first of the year that a "friend" has passed along a Grisham book to me.
Early on I read quite a few of Mr. Grisham's novels, but I grew weary and frankly just bored.
I can read the newspapers these days and get more action and espionage and dirty politics.
But it was a free read and though I skimmed far more than I'm inclined to do most of the time, I'm not suddenly going to become an avid Grisham reader.
I'm toying with the idea of only commenting on books on other people's entries, but although this is a departure from typical GR practice, it might end up just adding lots of complexity to the site.
but it does prevent people from reading straight book reviews if they're located on some other person's account.
decisions, decisions!since a chunk of time has passed since departure from Club H, I guess feelings have calmed down enough to permit some retrospective analysis.
they are also specifically trained in how to speak with you, and soak your pillow with tears if that amounts to alienation from the human race.what do people want?
But yet by the end of the book, I got that feeling that I was supposed to like him, despite being the sleazeball that he is/was.The story is set in Italy where the U.S. government has decided to hide Backman until they deem an appropriate time to leak his whereabouts to foreign nations in order to see who kills him first.
The professional, government-paid assassins sent to whack him are seemingly a side note, even though the whole premise of the book is that Backman is hiding from them and is supposed to be on the run.It's evident, as Grisham points out in his author's note, that he greatly admires the Italian culture.
