https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18249406-and-there-was-light
One is that joy isn’t outside ourselves, but is to be found within; and the other, that the light that is the essence of life is also within so it doesn’t need eyes to see it.At the age of 8, Jacques Lusseyran lost his sight due to an accident in school.
Not only did his inner strength and boundless joy pull him through, it helped him to help others find their way through as well.Thank you to Goodreads friends Betsy and Ingrid whose reviews were ones that inspired me to read this book.
I’ve never before read the memoir of a blind person and his account of how he adapted to his new world and what it entailed was a deeply fascinating education.
But the fact he then forms one of the first resistance movements cranks up the tension tenfold.
One of the most moving features of this book is his depiction of his boyhood friends - Jean, Georges and Francois.
It’s not unlikely Anthony Doerr got his idea for All the Light We Cannot See from this book.
In fact it’s the first book he mentions on his acknowledgements page.
An astonishing book. I was so moved by this man's life that I researched until I found someone who knew him to ask what it was like to be around him. I was told that when one met Jacques Lusseyran they felt they were being fully seen...for the first time...maybe the only time in their life.
And by the way, I literally mean "see"--form and light.I first met Lusseyran long after his death in 1971, when I went to work for Parabola magazine which was then publishing a book I ended up editing: a collection of mind-blowing essays by Lusseyran, Against the Pollution of the I: Selected Writings.
(Both that and this autobiography have since been acquired and republished by another company.) Although I fell as madly in love with a man as is possible through his writing alone, until about ten years ago, I had only listened to the abridged version of And There Was Light--an extraordinary reading by Andre Gregory on tape, now out of print.
I was deeply affected by "And There Was Light," the astonishing autobiography of Jacques Lusseyran, who, though blinded at age eight, was a leader of the French Resistance in World War II.A turning point in Lusseyran’s life was his miraculous return from the dead in Buchenwald, a notorious German concentration camp.
It was his sickness that rescued him and bestowed the grace of continuous joy.
I came away extraordinarily impressed with his courage, his integrity, his loyalty to those he loved and the faith—not in God per se, but in the joy of life itself—that kept him alive and happy in the worst of circumstances.
This includes his capture by the Germans and the lengthy time (nearly 15 months)that he spent at Buchenwald coming very close to death and managing to survive only by accepting his illness as a gift from God.Sadly, this man was killed in an automobile accident at the age of 47 - a death too soon.In the epilogue for the book, Lusseyran shared that he wrote the book to express his gratitude to America for welcoming him by sharing two truths which were intimately known to him.
Jacquess Lusseyran was obviously a born leader.There is much to learn about hope, life, strength, survival, courage, and humanity from this book and I am definetly a richer person for having read it.
Instead, he learned how to "see" in every other way and eventually began to thank God for taking his sight.
He tells his readers exactly how he & the others survived and gives us all a message of hope.This was a Book Club read for me and there was SO much for my group to discuss: history, religion, the source of strength, human nature, defying the odds, over-coming obstacles of all kinds.
The beginning of the book is the hardest/slowest to get through as he talks about adjusting and living with no 'sight', a truly foreign thought for us.
Once he starts talking about actual events and the war, the pace picks up drastically..at least it did for me.
The Lord truly had an amazing work for him to do.
I realized a couple of days ago that I will be out of town when the book club is discussing this and I am sad.
There is so much to talk about.
You all will have a great discussion!
All the concentration camp stories are horrific and so is the one of Jacques L. But this book is also about his blindness and how he experienced it. He called himself a visual blind, he had an inner way of seeing. It reminded me of a documentary in which blind children could describe the drawing that was put into their hands. I'm sure they had the same ability JL had. How sad that he survived Buchenwald but died in a car crash when he was 46. It was an interesting read.
What does it really mean to see? This book lets you know. It helps you better understand those spiritual feelings which direct us much better. What an inspiring man!
Personally, I felt Lusseyran's war effort represented the weakest aspect of the text as his readers are offered minimal detail with regard to the ideologies of his group, their goals and the manner in which they functioned.
I enjoyed the pages dedicated to his captivity, but still felt cheated by how the book is marketed as I feel it sets an expectation it fails to achieve.
That being said, I thought Lusseyran's experiences as a blind boy/man in an age that was openly prejudice of the disabled community interesting and can see significant appeal for those readers who enjoy stories of an individual's Christian faith.Not bad though not what was expected.
Not only is Lusseyran just a small boy when he forms and leads one of the greatest underground resistance movements in France during WWII, he is blind.
It is because of his blindness that he is so successful, he knows how to read people, to sense them and their intentions.
Fascinating book about the beauty of childhood and unfortunately how we too-often squelch the honesty and purity that childhood can and should be.
I learned so much about repentance through this book and it really helped me examine my relationship with my Savior.
Definitely one of my favorite books ever.
I hate it when I start a book and don't finish it but I just couldn't get into this one. It's an amazing story about a blind Frenchman during WWII. My problem is his style of writing. He describes every teeny tiny detail in a way that doesn't make any sense to me. I want to read his story, but I wish it was written by someone else.
Your enthusiasm I no longer need, for I am filled with it.'"p.185 maladroit: unskillful; awkward; bungling; tactless (Dictionary.com) "The distribution of the bulletin meant trips to apartment houses in Paris, copies slipped under doors, one boy on our team watching the exits to the building while the others flew from one floor to the next with their shoes in their hands.
I don't generally like nonfiction, but a friend lent this to me and, besides just being a good person and wanting to read the books my friends recommend haha, I also need a book lent to me by someone for the PopSugar challenge, so there you have it.
I don't know why that bothered me so much, but it did.
I know this is nonfiction and you can't control what happens, but it was still disappointing .
Overall, it was pretty good.
I truly believe in the force of light as described in this book.
I do know that joy come from searching for the light which then becomes you or which as he states is already a part of you.
I know that there is freedom associated with this light that is lasting and very powerful.
When one understands the principle of free agency, it becomes obvious that each person is responsible for their part in communal decisions and that to not resist evil is to become part of the forward movement of it.
I received this book as a digital ARC from the publisher through Net Galley in return for an honest review.This the story of Jacques Lusseyran who became blind in a school accident when he was eight-year old.With the advent of World War II, he founded with 52 other boys a Resistance group called "Volunteers of Liberty." He was by then seventeen-year old.Due to his blindness, he was in charge of the recruitment of new volunteers to this group.
This group grew up and was named later on as "Defense de la France" which was responsible for the publication of underground newspaper in order to provide information for the occupied French people.In principle this autobiography would be quite interesting.
However, the author supersedes so much his handicap that makes the book becoming a low-paced narrative.
I thought this book was about Jacques.
No. This book was about Jacques.
A man who went blind when he was 8 years old but saw color (rainbows) and people everywhere he went.
He never lost hope or joy.
Now, all of that is good except that I don't believe that a person could go through the Holocaust and never once lose hope or be downhearted.
This book read like a man pontificating only on his own amazing virtues.
There are 16 chapters in this book.
Jacques only starts talking about the resistance (that he started and ran apparently single-handedly at 16 years old) around chapter 10.
What I loved most about this book was Jacques's powerful testimony of God through his whole life.
He was always grateful & respectful of God's influence in his life.
It was good to understand what life was like for those countries taken over by Germany & Hitler's reign.Additionally, Lusseyran gave such a vivid account of blindness that you almost want the opportunity to be blind to experience life with the intimacy he was able to, due to his loss of sight.This book was kind of like reading scripture or poetry.
The discussion of the book made you so grateful you read it.
A fascinating autobiography.
The author was in an accident at school that left him blind shortly before his eighth birthday.
In many ways he was able to see more once he was blind than before, provided he was free from feelings of fear or selfishness."Wherefore, I beseech of you, brethren, that ye should search diligently in the light of Christ that ye may know good from evil; and if ye will lay hold upon every good thing, and condemn it not, ye certainly will be a child of Christ." (Moroni 7:19) describes the author's life.The book ends with the American liberation of the German prison camp he had been interned in.
I would have liked to have known what he did after the war, how he met his future wife, etc.

I won this in a firstreads giveaway, I know I'm supposed to make that clear. I think this definitely builds and gets better as it goes along. It started out kind of choppy, with lots of short, short sentences, so there wasn't much flow, but get through that and it's really good. I know I don't summarize a lot in my reviews, but I think the book description can do that part and I'll just say what I think about it.
Very touching. Amazing story of a selfless man in a concentration camp and blind at that. The light is within each of us, our happiness comes from giving of ourselves.
A blind man directing a Resistance group of hundreds, eventually more?
Read it.To be blind, at bottom, is to see.
His way of seeing "light," however one defines that, carried him through circumstances which are unimaginable except in the context of the Occupation and the concentration camps.
The USA right now could learn from this."Some of these people were very hard to hold in check, because they believed in their own inventions."On page 269:"That is what you had to do to live in the camp: be engaged, not live for yourself alone.
It was certainly hard, and most men didn't achieve it."But worth trying.
This group worked to recruit other members, and publish and disseminate the truth about the Nazi movement in a time when such actions could get you killed.In fact, thanks to the betrayal of one member, most of this group did end up sacrificing their lives in SS camps and prisons.
Even the author was hauled off, interrogated, and nearly killed before being liberated by the allies.What I most admired about Mr. Lusseyran and his companions was their Christian faith and how it drove them to make the difficult choices.
I also admire the fact that they were academics, and their studies (and the work of one professor in particular) complemented their faith and their pursuit of goodness in the world.I would recommend this book.
This was beautiful. Which, for covering (in part) a concentration camp, is remarkable. Some of the writing was just so deep and...beautiful. I read a library copy, but I would buy my own and read it again so I could mark it. I was intrigued and touched by his experiences and descriptions of his sight through his blindness. This rang so true to me, even though it is so far beyond anything I have personally experienced. I found so many of his experiences and teachings eternal truths that give a completely new perspective to my already deeply held religious beliefs.
A beautifully written and deeply moving book. I was amazed at Jacques incredible attitude toward life. The joy, the light, the inspiration that comes to him is inspiring. Although blind, he 'sees' so much more than many of us. "Joy does not come from outside, for whatever happens to us it is within. Light does not come to us from without. Light is in us, even if we have no eyes."
Jacques Lusseyran was a brilliant man who became blind at age 8 because of an accident.
He attributes his blindness to be a blessing in his life and explains why in the book.
He formed a Resistance movement when the Nazis invaded France.
The Resistance movement in France relied on him for soliciting leaders because of his keen sense of commitment and leadership in others.
For me it was moving to understand just how deeply connected Jacques' inner circle of friends were during this time of terrible treatment by their capturers.
Neither Lusseyran nor his parents--comfortable members of the petit bourgeoisie--let his blindness define him in the way that most people living in the more developed nations of the early 20th century would have done.
He went past all the barriers..."The teacher would continue to teach at the end of the school day, excusing anyone who wanted to leave (and here I think of the yellow school buses that constrict the schedules of US public school students so often now).
I picked up this book as a WWII memoir.
In this story of his early life Lusseyran speaks of being infused with amazing light.
This story which covers his early life tells the story of how he was blinded, his impressive education, and his resistance against the Nazis and his survival (a blindman!) in the concentration camp of Buchenwald.
In his memoir he writes of his extraordinary friends and how they organized a resistance group of over 600 boys (really young men) who distributed a newsletter telling the truth about the Nazis.
