https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/355407.Today_and_Tomorrow
Генри Форд - не просто "владелец заводов, домов, пароходов" - он создавал всё это, непосредственно управляя процессом.
Он не просто разбирается, но и гордится всякими "фишечками", и готов часами про них с увлечением рассказывать :) Вот по книге Форда понимаешь, что он именно из этой породы людей.
Что, собственно, его империю и развалило...Резюме: Читая Форда, понимаешь, почему и как Америка стала одной из самых великих стран мира.
И, кстати, вдвойне обидно, когда видишь, что понимание базовых принципов экономической эффективности (к которым пришли ещё в 30-х годах!) напрочь отсутствует в головах современных руководителей :(PS Книга, кстати, очень жизненная - читается легко.
Having parts and tools at point of use he was able to increase production while reducing costs.
Respect for People Jidoka (Toyota’s Pillars) are prominently called out in this book, even though Ford doesn’t title them this.In a time where there was no middle class - he showed respect for people.
Also by paying his employees at such a wage, he created a class of consumers.
Ford stresses repeatedly through “Today Tomorrow” that it is possible to pay high wages and reduce cost of product as his people are workers and problem solvers.
I like most of the chapters from the book. I got especially taken in by the chapter about the nation's wealth, and the idea behind charities. I do recommend to others to read, review and keep it accessible in their bookshelves. For me, this is a must-read.
great for falling asleep. Don't read if you can help it. it was required reading for my lean certification but I'm actually less smart due to it
Amazing what Ford was doing at the front of the twentieth century...and we still aren't doing today. Wage Motive...
I was somewhat surprised to see that Henry Ford outlined a complete and modern continuous process improvement program back in 1926 -- long before quality circles, total quality management, and lean six sigma.
The basic message of the book is that good business management can save the world.
The book reads somewhat like an Ayn Rand novel - the producers of the world carry the load for the moochers.
The only thing that kept me from giving it five stars was the constant droning about how Ford Motors is the best thing since sliced bread.
Otherwise, this is a very good book, maybe a must read, for those interested in continuous process improvement.
This book is the second of 3 books written by Henry Ford.
It is written in a similar style to My Life and Work.
in Today and Tomorrow, Henry details the measures taken and innovations developed to reduce labor hours in building the Model T.
It is ironic that in 1926, the year this book was written, the public was rejecting the Model T for more expensive cars with more features.
This book is essential for anyone interested in Henry Ford, the Model T, or automotive history.
Highly recommended for those interested in automotive manufacturing, Henry Ford, the Model T, and attitudes toward work and compensation in the mid 1020s.
Taiichi Ohno was the inventor of the Toyota Production System, which was copied during the 1980's by Sony and practically other Japanese and Asian Tiger industrial firm.
Henry Ford was Ohno's hero.
Taiichi Ohno read and reread Today and Tomorrow (published 1926), for Ford's book was a remarkable blueprint of how Henry Ford was achieving what we call today "Total Quality Management".
It was also a road map detailing almost every major feature that showed up in Ohno's "Toyota Production System".
Read Ohno's own book "Toyota Production System: Beyond Large-Scale Production" and you will see how much credit Ohno gives to Ford.
This book was written back in the 1920's but it still relevant today. Ford revolutionized manufacturing and many of his ideas inspired Ohno and Shingo in their development of the Toyota Production System and Lean.
