https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/654268.Old_Tippecanoe
http://bestpresidentialbios.com/2013/...“Old Tippecanoe: William Henry Harrison and His Time” by Freeman Cleaves was published in 1939 and remains the “go to” classic on the nation’s ninth president.
Nor does he provide any suggestion of what a more long-lasting Harrison presidency might have meant for the nation – a particularly stark omission in my view.Overall, Freeman Cleave’s biography of William Henry Harrison is fine, but not great.
“Old Tippecanoe” is a useful biography of William Henry Harrison, and surprisingly readable for a book twice my age, but left me feeling less satisfied than I had hoped.Overall rating: 3 stars
Brilliant classic from 1939, Freeman Cleaves' biography of William Henry Harrison, frontier politician and general who ended up as a historical footnote as the ninth U.S. president because he was the first president to die in office, (after serving only 31 days).
It is Harrison' dealings with the Native Americans that dominated his time in Indiana in the early eighteenth century.
Finally in office, he was beset by office seekers and the desires of the Henry Clay to dominate his presidency, something he was able to stifle just before the illnesss that led to his death.
It took me a long time to get through this. For the first two-thirds of the book it's all about Harrison and his time on the frontier. Engaging at some parts, most of it is boring to me. The last third, which talked about his political life, I enjoyed though. I expected boring parts from an 80 year old book, but it's surprisingly fluid in parts. Harrison himself wasn't ever particularly compelling to me, and I can definitely see why he's mostly forgotten, save his famous nickname "Old Tippecanoe."
Thus, in many ways, begins the more difficult section of my journey to read a biography of every president.
Mr. Cleaves here has managed something special, since this is by far the oldest biography I have yet read that is still widely considered to be definitive.
It also reads a little slow, and had some sections especially early in the book describing Harrison's campaigns that would be more readable with less information.
I think importantly, when it comes to writing biographies, one must consider whether the character is important and interesting enough to write about.
It's hard to give this book 3 stars.
Please keep in mind that 3 means I liked it.
I did like it!
(I've noticed I rather like referring to my prez boys by their 3 initials.
He spent the first half of his life - and thus we spend the first half of this book with him - being a totally successful, admired general on the "frontier" (Ohio/Indiana).
Totally exciting stuff.
All in all, we should know more about William Henry Harrison, and thanks to Freeman Cleaves' ridiculously meticulously researched book, now I do.
Choices are few for biographies of America's shortest-serving president, and this one is quite dated in language and content.
Mrs. Harrison is little more than a footnote throughout the text, not receiving any mention even as her husband lay in state in the capital.
But it vividly depicts the scenes and the action of Harrison's battles on the western frontier and during the War of 1812.
The reader will form feelings for the allies and enemies of the governor, the general, the ambassador, and the candidate.
The end of the story, however, is more abrupt and unfulfilling than even Harrison's own end must have been.
William Henry Harrison is most remembered for being the President that died of pneumonia a month after taking office.
There's zero discussion of what a Harrison presidency would have meant for America had he lived.
Given that he was the Governor of Indiana and well liked by John Quincy Adams, I assumed that Harrison was against slavery.
I didn't feel like I got the full story on the Native American battles from this book, as the portrayal of Harrison is almost positive past the point of believability.
Prior to my reading Cleaves' Old Tippecanoe, all I knew of William Henry Harrison was that he was the first president to die in office from an illness and the campaign slogan "Tippecanoe and Tyler Too", though to be quite honest I had no idea what Tippecanoe was.
It was interesting to read about this man who spent his formative years in the Northwest Territory.
I found the book very easy to read, which was fortunate since it concerned a man who was president for only 32 days!
On to John Tyler, the first president by default.
A solid overview of William Henry Harrison and his times.
Probably the best (of the few) around but it often felt too focused on minutiae that did little to add to the reader's overall picture of the biographical subject.
We get a solid idea of his achievements and the trajectory of his career but I often wished I was reading more of his relations at home with family, friends, and loved ones.
A decent read - perhaps the best about William Henry Harrison - but it still misses the mark on a few fronts.
I wouldn't say the author was a fanboy of this president, but I definitely came away with an admiration for President Harrison.
As a general of the Northwest Territory, he personally knew his officers and men and had their trust and love.
I had always heard of how he gave his long inaugural speech in the cold without a coat and caught pneumonia and died, but according to this book, it was three weeks later when he was caught in the rain coming home from church that he got a cold and died nine days later.
This book was interesting from the point of view of Harrison's extensive involvement in the Indian wars. His political career was not as well written - so many individuals were discussed in a brief manner that it was difficult to determine how they influenced the confusing political times. The last couple of chapters made up for that - they were sensitively written and more personal. I'm reading a book on every president and this was recommended to me.
I had originally read a rather short bio for Harrison, and knew I needed something more, as I’m from Indiana, not far from Grouseland, and Harrison is very important in the history of our area. I’m glad I found this Cleaves biography, and I highly recommend it.
He was only President for a month (spoiler) so book focuses a lot on his time in the military and as a territorial leader and his interaction with the Indians. Book was 434 pages, could have easily been 300. Not much on his eventual VP John Tyler.
Not as boring as you might think.
After being disappointed by Gail Collins' snarky and overly-concise biography of William Henry Harrison (the only WHH biography that's currently in print, as far as I know), I decided to turn to eBay to find an older but hopefully better book.
Although this work by Freeman Cleaves is a little old fashioned in its writing style (as other have noted), it does an adequate job of covering Harrison's life, including his extensive negotiations with both friendly and hostile Indian tribes, his relatively progressive view of the Indians, his military career in the War of 1812, his presidential campaigns and his all-too-brief presidency.
1/5Pre-president – Harrison’s main accomplishments are as follows: Was one of basically four Generals with Military success in the War of 1812 (my impressions are that he was a defensive General, like Washington, not an offensive one, like Jackson; none of his victories as great as Jackson’s New Orleans, but also not due solely to his Colonel’s as Richard Johnson alleged), served as Governor of the Indiana Territory, served as a delegate for the territory in Congress (passing bills which divided the Northwest Territory and made it cheaper for settlers to buy land), and served as Minister to Columbia (accomplishing nothing of note during this time of insurrection in the area).
In my eighth grade history class, I remember the teacher echoing the story that Harrison had given a laborious two-hour long acceptance speech on his inauguration day on a particularly cold, rainy day in March without wearing the proper coat.
Given his short tenure, any biography of Harrison could feel superfluous to a casual reader but thankfully Freeman Cleaves managed to bring this obscure President to life in his 1939 classic.
The book is essentially split into two parts--the first focuses on Harrison's early life and career in the military.
The book does make mention of the story of Harrison's long acceptance speech.
At first I found it almost foolish that I was going to read a 400 plus page book on a president that only served about a month, but I'm glad I did.
The early part of the book, dealing with Harrison's military career was an enjoyable read.
The problem is after Gen. Harrison retires during the War of 1812, the book shifts writing style and became laborious to read.
The final disappointment was the rushed ending, seeming like Cleaves himself was bored with the book.
No one really knew what to do; however, Cleaves ends the book with the president dying on the second to last page, and about three paragraphs describing the nation's shock.
I found it very wanting, for while Cleaves follows Harrison dutifully, he barely describes the political forces that led to WHH's two nominations and you rarely escape the Harrison bubble...which leads to some truly boring passages.As for the man himself, Harrison struck me as an interesting character in our nation's history.
That said, I personally liked the excerpts from his inaugural speech, which doubled down on diminishing the role of the executive.A large defect of this biography is its lack of offering any opinion by Cleaves on how a WHH presidency would have worked.
As Mr. Cleaves described the events of Harrison's life, he did mention the shortcomings of the European settlers, but never questioned their right to be in territory that belonged to other people.Nor did he hesitate to call the Native Americans "savages" while at the same time reporting how American soldiers were also collecting enemy scalps during the War of 1812.
I would have preferred a volume with more analysis of the motivations and settings of our forebears, rather than one that focused so closely on the details of Harrison's life.
(The books, I mean, not the presidents.
Freeman Cleaves biography of William Henry Harrison, ninth President of the United States is a surprisingly good read!
However what made this biography fascinating were details surrounding the Indian wars and the frontier battles which General "Tip" heroically fought in the War of 1812.
The famous battle Tippecanoe was a hard-won Indian battle in 1811, wherein General Harrison defeated the combined Indian forces of Shawnee Chief Tecumseh at Tippecanoe River in Indiana.
However Harrison's most notable victory was the Battle of the Thames (near Lake Erie) during the War of 1812, where he defeated the combined British forces of General Proctor and Chief Tecumseh.
Like a lot of presidents from the West of that era, his greatest claim to fame was as a conqueror of Indians, which is hardly something to beat your chest about today.
But it was first published in the 1930s and the biases of the time are reflected in it: Indians are savages, abolitionists as rabble-rousers, and the demands of the slave-holding south are of equal worth as those of the free states.For example this passage, which highlights the forgotten brutality that was the conquering of the West:"A breathless soldier holding an Indian scalp in his hand caught the attention of his General [Harrison]: 'Look here, General, I've got it!
As part of our Chronological Read of American History Group, a great deal of discussion went into whether or not to include Harrison since his term was limited to one month after he died in office.
The main reason is that this read provided the most detailed account of Native American policy to date.
This aspect was surprisingly lacking in Meacham's American Lion, yet Cleaves spends about 2/3 of his work on Harrisons involvement.
In addition to the well known military career, Harrison served as diplomat to Columbia and was elected to Congress before being elected President.This is a good overview of Harrison.
Although only in office for one month as President of the United States, William Henry Harrison's life was filled with one fascinating adventure to the next.
He mastered the little known tactics of mass and concentration to deliver a blow against the British and their Indian allies at several battles the most famous being Tippecanoe.
For those who want to see the western and frontier view of these years in American history this is a great place to start and well worth the time to learn about one of our little known presidents in American history.
If you can get through the dated language, this was originally published in 1939 and uses the term savages throughout for American Indians, Cleaves book is the most thorough biography of Harrison that you can find.
With detailed chronicles through the Battle of Tippecanoe and action during the War of 1812, one gets a sense of events that shaped Harrison's life.Most know Harrison either for his campaign slogan, or for the fact that he died early on in office, Cleaves dispels myths such as Harrison dying from his inaugural speech.
Harrison was never sick immediately after the speech and instead gets ill and dies rather quickly.
Yet his standing as the man with the briefest tenure as president obscures a long and important life.
Freeman Cleaves's great achievement in this book is to describe this life in dramatic prose that captures much of the excitement of a young nation expanding westward in the early 19th century.
Primarily a military historian, Cleaves focuses on Harrison's tenure as territorial governor of Indiana and his service as a general in the War of 1812, a period that served as the foundation for his subsequent political prominence.
The book's early history of Harrison is lacking.
It does an excellent job of explaining his actions in the War of 1812.
It does a terrible job of explaining the issues at hand or the political forces at work in Harrison's two runs for President.
I had no idea how few non-American Indians lived in the Midwest in the late 1700's: about 6,000 spread over present day western Ohio, western Michigan, Indiana, Illinois, and Wisconsin.I was surprised how few Indians lived in this same region.
I wonder where it was, as the author doesn't do a good job of explaining its location using modern reference points.
Finding a book in the 9th president isn't easy, outside of the 200 page time life series.
The book is well researched and Cleaves does a great job of piecing together Harrison's life and his battles on the frontier.
However the biggest challenge with this particular biography is that it is a nice narrative of facts and to that end one of the reasons I'm reading these bios is to get a view (slanted) of uS history.
After the time of the boring life of van buren a career politician, Harrison was a doer.
Most surprising though was the ending.

WHH was primarily an indian war fighter, a capable General, and a popular man when it came to politicking.The book adequately covered his life from beginning to end.
Great detail was given to his military endeavors and a few chapters to his political campaigning.
Just a short section covered his 30 days as President but what can you say...that's 'all she wrote' for WHH.If your primary goal is to learn about the life of WHH (as mine was) you'll find this book rewarding.
If you are more specifically interested in his political career and his abbreviated presidency then you'll come away wanting after reading this one.
