https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89321.Le_Lotus_bleu
در این کتاب که برخی از آن، به عنوان یکی از بهترین کارهای هرژه ،نام می‌برند، هرژه برای نگارش این کتاب، مطالعات تاریخی پر دامنه ای، در مورد تاریخ جنگ چین و ژاپن، انجام دادند، و از کمکهای دوست خود نیز، که یک دانشجویی چینی در بلژیک بود، سود بردند.
ایشان برای قدردانی از کمکهای دوستش، شخصیت «چونگ چن چنگ» را در کتاب گل آبی آفریدند.
The Blue Lotus is my favorite comic strip.
Well, of course, I love the inimitable graphic design of Hergé but also the history that mixes historical events (war Japan / China), socio-economic problems of the time (fight against opium that was ravaging at the time ).
Several scenes are excellent like the one where the son of the Chinese master goes crazy.
I also laughed a lot when the Dupont and Dupont want to blend in with the scene but instead they ridicule themselves by disguising themselves in traditional Chinese dress.Humor, history, adventures are waiting for you!
After Tintin's travels in the Middle East and India he continues his investigation into the the mysterious drug-running organisation with the trial running into China.
Set just prior to the Japanese invasion of Manchuria for the first time Hergé drops his European views and actually shows sympathy for the oppressed.
Tintin teams up with the local Chinese to try and defeat the opium druglords and Japanese oppressors.
He also dispels myths commonly held by Western society of the time which vilified the Chinese.
Most of the Japanese are stereotypically depicted with glasses and buck teeth but at least this time the villains actually were the villains.
Onwards and upwards with more Tintin.
This time, Tintin visits China and makes a short trip to India as well.
The Blue Lotus refers to an opium den by the name.
The book is also a strong indictment of the Japanese occupation of China.
Hergé was highly influenced by one of his Chinese friends in the writing of this book.The stereotypical Chinese is fully represented in the story.
But the satire in The Blue Lotus is brilliant and can still be identified with.
Nevertheless, the story is delightful, the graphics are amazing, and Tintin solves the mystery in the end.
Tintin desta vez está na China... tentando desmantelar o tráfico internacional de ópio,com a ajuda de  uma sociedade secreta  chamada “Os filhos do dragão”.Tintin também tenta  descobrir um antídoto para um poderoso veneno que deixa as pessoas malucas.O lótus azul é com certeza a mais famosa história de Hergé e tem um fundo histórico relacionado com o conflito entre Japão e China que ocorria na época.
This, the fifth entry in the Tintin series, is the first one with anti-racist content.
Chang replies, "They must be crazy people in your country!!" It is good that Herge starts here to provide some correctives to the more backwards aspects of his work.
This supplement teaches us that this work marked the beginning of Herge's determination to base his stories on actual research about the countries and peoples depicted.
It also shows that Herge's depiction of a false-flag incident used to justify Japanese invasion of China was based on the real-life Mukden Incident.
Which is also to say that there is anti-imperialist content here.
قريتها من زمااااان جدا و موش فاكرة حاجه محددة عشان اقدر اكتبهالكم عنها فى المراجعه .. لكن اللى فاكراه من ايامها انى كنت باعشق السلسلة دى عموما من ساعة ما اكتشفتها في مكتبة المدرسة وسط قصص قديمة للأطفال ، و كانت اكتشافي الثاني أيامها في هذه المكتبة بعد اكتشافي الأول لـ (المغامرون الخمسة)، و كنت باحبها أكتر من (المغامرون ..)  :))
Written around 1934 as a sequel to 'Cigars of the Pharaohs', in the 'Blue Lotus' Tintin's vacation in India is interrupted and he ends up in China during the time of Japanese occupation and in the midst of opium trafficking... Herge includes many real historical events of that time in this story...
Tintin with Snowy company, interrupt their time to India to visit China on false alarm. But on his back he is caught on a ring of opium smugglers and has to investigate a madding-poison...but he is in danger. His enemies, the drug traders try to murder him several times, to frame him as spy or murderer. Tintin teams with an older Chinese to find the main drug deal behind the scenes and during the investigation makes a good friend Chang!The scene i liked more is when Tintin and Chang sharing the classic stereotypes about European and Chinese people!
The Blue Lotus is a special one for a few reasons, it’s got a pretty fantastic cover and some wonderful large panels, especially when entering towns, and perhaps most important to the history of Tintin, the introduction of Chang – who becomes vital to a future adventure.Another twisty tale with some great double-bluffs, perhaps the most impressive thing about this one is the changes Herge makes to his research.
I also loved hearing Thompson (or Thomson?) using the word ‘botheration.’ Fantastic.There’s also some more instances of Herge’s fondness for alliteration (‘seventy-seven suffering samurais’) and some great night panels which always remind me of the ‘day for night’ shooting used in the older films (such as Hitchcock’s To Catch a Thief.)Another great adventure!
As expected!! The plot is very intrigue!! It has a lot of incidents before the main plot starts, there are interesting twists!! This part is not very gripping like the first part!! The main antagonist was not revealed til the end and his role is very brief when compared to that of his in the previous episode! The allies of the main villain was given a lot of scope and their role was very constructively narrated!!I think u may not find this very much interesting and at the same time not very much boring!!
Truly a unique series; adventure based on historic events...I can not think of a better series to help 'unplug' the youth of today and encourage them to read a good book! The tension between Japan and China in the early 30's is presented in a realistic way: of particular interest is the portrayal of opium dens and their link to secret societies. Tintin books can help place the world in context - even today - which is the true measure of a well written book.
This book immediately starts at the end of the Cigars of the Pharaoh. With this book, Herge becomes more provocative, as he takes on Japan's militarism and imperialism. The book was so stinging in its daring revelation of Japan's encroachments into China that the Japanese ambassador to Belgium (Herge was Belgian)filed a diplomatic protest. But Herge was right.
Otra interesante aventura de Tintín, esta vez muy ligada con la trama del anterior álbum " Los cigarros del faraón". En esta ocasión, Tintín descubrirá que el millonario Rastapoupulos es el que está intentando acabar con él y el que está detrás del negocio del tráfico de opio.Hernandez y Fernandez con sus habituales patochadas y la descripción que hace Hergé de Asia hacen de este un buen cómic.
ফারাওয়ের চুরুটের এর কাহিনী এখানে কনটিনিউ করেছে। কিনতু ফারাওয়ের চুরুটের মত এতটা মজার এবং ধরে রাখার মত ছিল না। তবে কম মজার এবং ধরে রাখার মত-ও ছিল না।
ফারাওয়ের চুরুটের এর কাহিনী এখানে কন্টিনিউ করেছে। কিন্তু ফারাওয়ের চুরুটের মত এতটা মজার এবং ধরে রাখার মত ছিল না। তবে কম মজার এবং ধরে রাখার মত-ও ছিল না।
Uno de mis cómics favoritos de la niñez :)
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/2194952.html[return][return]The Blue Lotus really is the first proper Tintin book - a huge step up from Cigars of the Pharaoh.
It's unfortunate in a way that it ties up some dangling plot strands from Cigars of the Pharaoh, because it is so much better.[return][return]I think I actually had not read it before - none of the incidents rang any bells for me, and I see that it was not translated into English until 1983 precisely because it was thought to be too firmly rooted in events of 1931 which would be unknown to today's younger readers.
The beginnings of these stories have been around as long as the Lord of the Rings, the illustration and environments in the Tintin books are accurate and extremely detailed.
Anyone who has spent even a little time exploring Herge (Georges Remi) can see the painstaking research and adversity he worked through to compose the world around Tintin.
His ideas were ahead of his time (Exploring the moon, Industrialization, South American political conflict, modern slave trade, extraterrestrial life) and he made certain every detail for every object would be realistic (after the third book at least).
Herge's work can certainly be cited as an influence for any modern day graphic novel or comic book.
This wonderful book evokes a lot of memories...
When I was a kid my parents sent me to learn French at one of the many Institute Francais spread around the world.
Looking back, perhaps the only reason I stuck with it was that the Institute had a wonderful library, and in that library there was the entire collection of the Adventures of Tintin Les Aventures de Tintin.
I can't even begin to describe what I liked about this collection, so I'll say instead that this fantastic detective-story-cum-world-traveller is witty, humorous, and catching.Five stars, a must-read for everyone.
Loved this one!
Picking up from where 'Cigars of the Pharaoh' left off, Tintin and Snowy continue on their adventure in Asia.
The story moves faster in this one and ties up loose ends, all with a worthy climax.
It's also interesting to witness the use of the political milieu of the time as the basis for the story.
My favourite part was early on in the book when a group of white men at the 'Occidental' club are discussing the 'benevolence' of western civilisation.
The satire is brilliant and this is the Herge we know and love, not the evil twin brother who wrote Tintin in Congo.
Action packed adventure stretching from England to India and on to Shanghai. Drug smugglers and crazy fakirs who try to through drug induced darts at people.
I remember this one. Humourous and engaging as always. Tintin was always my favourite as a kid!
Loved this. Old Shanghai has never looked better. Nanjing Road as fields though...how China has changed.
عودة بعد غياب عدة أشهر لـ تان تان ومغامراته الممتعة. يتميز هذا العدد بألوانه ونزعته الإنسانية في موقفه من الصينين على عكس أول عددين بروحهم العنصرية.
Dari semua komik Tintin yang saya baca (yang jumlahnya belum melebihi angka 5), Lotus Biru adalah yang paling bagus.
This early Tintin book suffers from loose plotting and casual racism, especially in the depiction of the Japanese (all the more surprising given Herge's clear attempt to counter anti-Chinese racism, seriously with a rather over-earnest dialogue between Tintin and Chang, more humorously--and effectively--with his depiction of Thompson and Thomson in ridiculous Chinese disguises).
Far too many unlikely events and implausible disguises, but some lovely art, notably in the more panoramic half-page panels focusing primarily on setting.
Tintin visits them twice!) and suicide, but I guess the 1940s was a different era.
مغامرة جديدة لتان تان في دولة الصين القصة بها العديد من الجوانب السياسية نشرت هذة القصة في عام ٣٤ والاحداث كانت تدور عام ٣١ وفي هذة السنة بدأت الحرب اليابانية الصينية بسبب حجة واهية كعادة الدول الفاشية مما ادي الي تفجير القوات اليابانية الغاشمة لخط قطارات صيني وبدأت الحرب بعدها وقد تطرق هيرجية لهذة الواقعة في هذة القصة وانتهت الرواية بانسحاب اليابان من الاراضى الصينية وهو ما لم يحدث في الحقيقة انما حدث بعد نشر هذة القصة بعدة سنوات ومع نهاية الحرب العالمية الثانية من افضل مغامرات تان تان التي قرأتها
قصص جميلة ومثيرة مثلما اِشتُهِر عنها..التقييم على التشويق والمغامرة في القصة،تنتمي مغامراتها للعالم الواقعي أحيانًا وأحيانًا أخرى يكون ممزوج بعالم الفانتازيا اللذيذولا شك بأن هناك اسقاطات منها على الواقع----------القصة مشهورة ووصلت مسامعي من فترة طويلة.. لكن كان عندي فكرة ان دي ماتعتبرش قصص وقراءة وكدهبس حبي لأني اجرب واكتشف حاجة جديدة خلاني اقراها وحلاوة القصة والمغامرة فيها خلاني انوي اخلص السلسلة
By this time Herge has been able to put up better conspiracy, propaganda and suspense in his stories :D. ১৯৩১ সালে চলমান জাপানিজ টরুপের চীনের সাংহাই বনদর দখলের চেষটা , চীনে জাপানি অবরোধ পরলমবিত করার উদদেশযে শাংহাই- নযাংকিং রেইলটরযাকের অংশ বিশেষ বোমা দিয়ে উড়িয়ে দেওয়া এবং চীনের বিরুদধে আরও বহুবিধ জাপানিজ পরোপাগাণডা গুলো হারজ চমৎকার ভাবে তার এই গলপটিতে তুলে ধরেছেন। এইসব ঘটনার জের ধরে পরিশেষে লীগ অব নেশনসে বিচার শুরু হলে ১৯৩৩ এ জাপান লীগ অব নেশনস পরিতযাগ করে – মূল এই ঘটনাগুলোও হারজ তার গলপে রেখেছেন।

#25 for 2018Genre: Children ComicLanjutan Cerutu Sang Pharaoh yang membawa Tintin dan Snowy berpetualang ke India dan berlanjut ke Shanghai, Cina. Seperti biasa Tintin mengalami percobaan pembunuhan dan penangkapan berkali-kali, dan pastinya selamat.
