https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29554877-the-tao-of-pooh-and-the-te-of-piglet

The Tao of PoohThis is one amazing little book!
This book can definitely change your life: it's so uplifting!
What I found really interesting when reading reviews here and there is how everyone identifies with a different chapter from the book, a different character.
The Te of Piglet:Hmm, I've just finished reading this book and I really don't know what to think about it...
The Tao of Pooh was such an uplifting read for me that I really have a hard time figuring out what I thought of The Te of Piglet and whether I liked it or not...
I read this in the summer of 1990 and understood Taoism much better than I did in my philosophy class. A very cool little read.Following a very busy, difficult school year, I thought a little review of a world view focused on remaining calm in all situations wouldn't be a bad idea.Yep, still a very enjoyable little book that reminds you of the strength, courage and power of self, the universe and of nothing. On to the Te of Piglet.
As if the Tao of Pooh weren't enough, the Te of Piglet had to come along. And as if that weren't enough, there's a boxed set. A boxed set?! This is not the Velevet Underground, this is self-consciously wacky pseudo philisophical bullshit! Where's my razors, I feel the urge to flee this world for good.
Read a ga-gillion times over the years- in little 'pick up off the shelf' 20 minute increments. Winnie the Pooh- my favorite fictional character, his little stuffly nose voice, his hunny bunny belly and his whistlin' right along attitude---I TRY to be like that and it sadly, comes and goes like the wind. Heartwarming and sweet and true, everyone should really, really own a copy of this book.
The best points of this book were the excerpts from Winnie the Pooh. Though I know the author wrote the book to simplify Taoism for those of us (ie me) who have not concept of it, I had the distinct impression that he oversimplified it. He basically condemned the pursuit of knowledge and any sort of goals in favor of "simplemindedness" and simply enjoying everyday life.
The first half - which corresponds to The Tao of Pooh - was so cute and inspirational, I read it with such delight and ended it with a feeling of happiness and accomplishment.
Throughout the 1st half of the book there were parts where I thought 'maybe he is being a little too extreme' or 'this seems too much an opinion and not a fact'.
I honestly think that the author just wrote this book to get more money - which then is a little hypocrite having in account what he writes- because there is no consistency or purpose in what he writes.
Things in their original simplicity contain their own natural power, power that is easily spoiled and lost when that simplicity is changed.The Way, way of the universe, it's natural balance harmony retreats with man's interference.Through working in harmony with life's circumstances, taoist understanding changes what other perceive as negative into something positive.When you know and respect your own inner nature, you know where you belong.
You also know where you don't belong.WuWei (the pooh way) means withough meddlesome, combative or egotistical effort.
Read Pooh and it all fits. Pooh is Tao! The Te of Piglet I found to be a bit of a repeat of Tao of Pooh.
Insulting enough the author of this book calls Christians, "party-crashing busybodies" that don't like singing or anything for that matter when referring to the founders of the New World.
The Te of Pooh-Again with the ridiculous rambling of Benjamin Hoff and his hatred of the Western World and Christianity (the belief of the Western World) through his teaching of Taoism using the beloved prekindergarten characters of Winnie the Pooh.
And yes, Christians have family relations because they care about their family unlike the Taoist that just goes with the flow and doesn't attach themselves to people so they won't feel the loss but again, isn't that the same with most religions?
If someone (Hoff in this case) wants to explain something that is relative to real life by relating it to a fantasy (this had no underlying moral like fairy-tales, it was quite straight forward for example 'eeyores' are this and that 'rabbits' are this and that, we should he more like 'pooh'), then they must be careful because the world just doesn't work like the hundred acre wood and humans can't be like a bear imagined by a man.In the Te of Piglet, I found that parts of the book dragged on like a history lesson with what seemed like a bunch of biased judgements that sums up lots of opinions.
I give the Tao of Pooh 4 Stars and the Te of Piglet 0 Stars for an avg of 2 Stars.Tao of Pooh - the author uses excerpts from Winnie the Pooh stories in order to give a simplified explanation of Taoism.
I don't really buy into the "Tao does not do, but nothing is not done" concept that teaches living without meddlesome, combative, or egotistical effort.
Taoism teaches laziness and that's one part I can't get behind.Te of Piglet - Skip it.
I wish I had read this book in conjunction with other religious texts.
Though this book is an excellent resource on Taoism; I didn’t get as much out of it as I had hoped.
I can’t tell if it is because I had a class that went over Taoism’s fundamentals or if it is the book itself.
It might be the latter; the book is written to have a smooth flow and not to get bogged down in details (mirroring a Taoist lifestyle) but it sometimes seems to be a bit too light.
This was especially true in the second book, The Te of Piglet.
Quick, somewhat charming read wherein the basic concepts of the Tao are illustrated via tales pulled from the Pooh-centric books.
Clever idea, works well, however, the author's skill does cause some confusion.
And for an uptick, original Pooh-story illustrations are used to great effect and supply a nice gentle glow to the work.
If you need something to read on the throne, are interested in Eastern thought, and can tolerate the occasional Oregon-author social/environmental/personal rant (which while valid ways to feel are wholly inappropriate and do not fit at all, not even a little, w/in the confines of this text), then this is a collection of paper you'll possibly enjoy.
The Tao of Pooh is special and warm and warming and wonderful and many other good things. On its own I would have given it a full five stars without thinking about it.On the other hand, The Te of Piglet is too anti-American, almost too militaristic - on its own it would have scored two stars from me.Read the first, skim the second.Die eerste boek in hierdie tweeluik is wonderlik en leersaam; die tweede is só anti-Amerikaans dat dit die skoonheid van die idee vernietig. Lees dus die eerste een en kyk effens na nommer twee.

wonderfully warm. it feels like cuddling up on a cozy chair underneath a toasty blanket, sipping a tasty cup of hot chocolate on a snowy winter evening. or exploring a large tree on a warm, breezy spring day and realizing that your curiosity has lead you into quite a dangerous predicament but then taking a deep breath and feeling a large smile curl across your face as you realize how much fun you're having.A small, easily digesed book that stays w/ you like a deliciously healthy meal.
everyone should read this
What a lovely and delightful way to learn about Taoism.
great stuff.an interesting look into the personality written about fictitious characters.gives them a sense realism.
I could read this book over and over and discover new hidden meaning. It is such a cute book and I love how the author explains Taoism through the story of Pooh.
He is especially critical of rival Asian philosophies, Confucianism and Buddhism, though he takes time out to be critical of Western, especially American, culture and rationalism.Hoff in brief sums up Taoism for the reader by saying: earth was in essence a reflection of heaven, run by the same laws--not by the laws of men...the more man interfered with the natural balance produced and governed by the universal laws, the further away the harmony retreated into the distance.
I should preface this with saying that these books were my first introduction to Taoism and its philosophies in general, which may have influenced my rating.While the books do a very good job of telling you of what Taoism is, and draws some very clear and understandable parallels to Pooh and the gang, they do a lot besides that which frankly didn't fit into what the books are sold as.I noticed it mostly during the Te of Piglet, and I think its far more prevalent there, but I might just not have thought about it as much while reading the Tao of Pooh.
The Tao of Pooh explores Taoism in a unique way via conversation with the characters of the classic story.
Ultimately it didn't land quite right for me, as the simplicity of the interactions and examples involving the Pooh characters was so far off from the in-depth prose of the religion/way-of-life that there didn't seem to be a bridge between the two.
In the end, I have to respect the attempt by the author to simplify a religion (that's all about simplicity) using pop culture.
I hope that more intelligent authors can do the same; just, perhaps, a bit more effectively.
The Tao of Pooh is a classic, an entertaining and informative overview of Taoism; The Te of Piglet, not so much.I read the first book many years ago, and I remembered liking it very much, but as time went on and I became old and forgetful, I couldn't remember the content.
The premise of airing these criticisms was to show how the Tao could lead to better results and solutions, but I got bogged down in the airing of the grievances and lost the Way (pun intended).So if you would like some advice, read the Tao of Pooh, skip the Te of Piglet.
Good coverage of Taoist content, and hits all the key notes, but I found this book let down in two regards: the author interspersing his personal political ideology into the writing (I think Taoism is a lot more personal than political) and the way the author writes vaguely about certain topics (including using Pooh metaphors that sometimes don’t fit). As a novice to Taoism, a reader may not understand what he is getting at. As someone previously exposed to Taoism, the reader then simply gets a rehashing of known content. That’s not bad, I guess..
A great family-friendly explanation of what it means to live simply, accepting and dealing with what is in an essentially optimistic way. No better character to illustrate the way of Taoism than Pooh, except he doesn't care about calling it an -ism. Definitely a book that can transform your perspective on life. The section about Piglet could have been another chapter but makes a nice companion read. Recommended for anyone who finds him/herself in a situation wanting to be different from as they are.
The Tao Of Pooh is the better book with many insightful philosophical views. The Te of Piglet on the other hand was more a rant about the negative aspects of western society than anything else. Although there is discussion of the way and the inherent benefits of Taoism it doesn’t provide a reason as to why Taoism doesn’t ring true and therefore more widely adopted in western let alone Chinese society.
An everyday life explanation of Taoism through some adorable characters, mixed with social critique. It's a view worth spreading and Mr. Hoff makes a couple of good points. Clear writing style with some touching quotes, though the book reads a bit like an eclectic patchwork.
Tao of Pooh has lots of little gems of wisdom. It reminds me of the saying to be like water and go with the flow. The Te of Piglet was more of a cynical person giving opinions on how the younger generation is destroying the world.
