https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53020.The_Autobiography_of_William_Butler_Yeats
The ideal reader of the book would be well-read in the history of Ireland in the late 19th and early 20th century.
Lacking that, the book is still quite enjoyable and informative, and it contains passages of a singular beauty that one might only expect from a true poet writing in prose.
One of the sections near the end of the book deals with Yeats winning the Nobel Prize in 1925, his traveling to Sweden to accept it, etc.
How can one not appreciate a book where the author, a giant of literature, elects to include this delightful, homely detail?
That means Yeats assumes that any one reading these pieces will already have a vested interest in and familiarity with his subjects.
He refers to contemporary people and political situations that average readers simply won't be familiar with.
So if a reader wants to learn about WBY, best to start elsewhere.However, this is the writing of the man himself.
Yeats laments the fact that the cause for Irish nationalism is whipped up more by hatred of the British than by a considered, logical approach to self-government.
Er... well, this is awkward. I love Yeats's Celtic Twilight. I love his poetry. I love his collections of Irish folklore. I haven't tried reading his plays yet. I thought I would give his autobiography a chance. I made it some 50 or 55 pages in before finally giving up. Sorry, Yeats, but your childhood really wasn't all that exciting...
One of my favorite quotes: "Later I heard him talk of her as a man talk of something he cannot keep silence over because it is in all his thoughts."I'm positive I read this for some course.
Why don't college professors tell you that Yeats believed in magic when they have you read his poems? Kind of important. Don't ya think?
This book is not so much an intended autobiography as it is a collection of autobiographical writings that cover a large portion of the great poet's life.
As such, there is some repetition of incidents, but they are individually and collectively instructive as there are nuances revealed about the writer in his reactions and opinions at the stage of life when the comments were penned.
While I would have appreciated more introspective comments about his own poetry, such as the geneses of the particular poems and the personal significance of the the symbols and archetypes used, I gained a great deal of insight into the poet as man, which allows me to re-read the poems with a new appreciation of the mind and intellect behind them.
Mr. Yeats definitely lived in some interesting times. It's probably a good thing to know something about Ireland from that time to better appreciate the book but one can still enjoy it for what it is. My only wish was that he would of talked more about his involvement with the Golden Dawn. He touched on meeting Mathers and being involved with him and some of his own experiments but that's it.
an excellent collection of work to cobble together to make an autobiography. worth reading just for the journal extracts 2/3 of the way in.
Love this poet
