https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41044147-library-of-souls
BRB GONNA GO CRY BECAUSE IT'S OVER. In all seriousness, I couldn't have asked for a more satisfying ending to this peculiar adventure. I'm so happy and satisfied with the way this story ended. I'm having a hard time wrapping my mind around the fact that this series is over. I'm going to miss these characters, but I'll definitely revisit these books in the future and relive the adventure over again.
While the premise is interesting, the writing is dull, the characters are flat, and it's overlong.
The entire series could have fit within one 400 page book; there's just too much filler that doesn't go anywhere.
I hate a meandering plot and side adventures when they don't serve the story and only take away from the flow.
It's too much stop/start for me and it took me nearly a month to finish this last book.(view spoiler)[The happy ending was too convenient and took away from any sort of emotional impact it would have had.
(hide spoiler)]
Interesting pictures, tedious plot.
Maybe more like 4.5I really enjoyed this third book. I think maybe not having read the other books in so long threw me off starting this book, it was super hard for me to get into at first, but once I was in I sped through it. THAT ENDING THO I AM PRETTY EMOTIONAL.I just love these characters a lot. And this story. It's so unique and wonderful.
Ransom Riggs’ Library of Souls (the final installment in Miss Peregrine’s Peculiar Children trilogy) picks up where Hollow City ends.
Even with a new purpose established at the end of Hollow City, I had become a little tired of the peculiar children always being on the run.
The ending to this book and to the series is satisfying.
I decided to bump up my rating from 3.5 stars to 4 stars because I enjoyed my time with the peculiars and maybe even because I’m looking forward to seeing how this series translates onto the big screen (beginning this December).
I am absolutely so happy with how this series ended.
I don't like it and I don't think it needed to be included, but I really appreciate that it's not heavy in this series.It's a bit sad for me to see this story end, since, for once, I've been with this trilogy since the very beginning, but I am so happy with this beautiful ending we got and as hard as it is to say goodbye to the books, I am hoping I love the movies and I look forward to revisiting these characters in the future!Before reading: Why is no one talking about how beautiful this hardcover is without the dust jacket?!?!
I have to say, this was my least favourite of the 3, but nonetheless I did still love it and I'm very sad the story's over. I fell in love with peculiardom and I cannot wait for more stories from this world!!!
This was my reaction when I found out this was the final novel of the Miss Peregrine series.This was my reaction when I opened the book and found it intensely action-packed with all of zero breathing room:And this was my reaction when I got to the end:Along the way, Ransom Riggs more than outdid himself.
And we're introduced to an unusual little creation called the Panloopticon - which is oddly similar to the Terminal in my own Red Rain series, but I think Riggs has done a much better job of fleshing out his multiverse than I.Even when the adventure comes to an end, there's still about fifty pages to go - and most of those fifty pages are absolute hell for all involved.
Despite all the amazing reviews, I felt no connection with this book. I really enjoyed the first two where as from the start of this one I couldn't get into it. I found myself disinterested with the characters. I also felt that the pictures didn't add anything to the story and I wouldn't have missed them had they not been there, whereas I really felt they added to the atmosphere of the first two books. Probably my biggest disappointment of the year.
“No one can hurt you as badly as the people you love.” Library of Souls is the most imaginative book of this series and the final conclusion to the war continuing since the last two books. Every element astounded me and kept my eyes attach to this book. The characters have developed perfectly, especially Jacob, I liked his mind and never did he bore me out because he always surpised me with his dynamic at every turn. “Maybe," she said. "Maybe. But now you're making promises you might not be abl
Library of Souls is the most imaginative book of this series and the final conclusion to the war continuing since the last two books.
This book is much more than some action or sci-fi movies, the book itself cloaks the profound messages immaculately between the lines and the characters have many dimensions.Library of Souls is beautifully written but the story is a little bit slow compared with the previous books.
Ransom Riggs made me addicted to this series, and when I spent my time too far from this book, I wanted to come back and read it.
SPOILER FREE REVIEW!I was originally going to give this 2 stars, but then I couldn't think of anything I really liked about this book, so even though it hurts my heart, 1 star it is.What an enormous disappointment.Honestly, if it wasn't the third book in a beloved series, I would have easily put it down pretty early on.
Let me go over all of the things that I did not like about this book.1) Too many convenient moments in the plot.
Also, in the second book, we got a lot of new characters and things about the world that weren't in the first.
Are you into creepy vintag-Forget about that already, I got that far for the story itself..In its darkest godforsaken loop, the real life, Victorian Devil's Acre.Where the epic concluded...but the Peculiardom truly, fully established.Okay, and there's still again Creepy Vintage Photos.... just as Book One and Two  *** The Loop ***  The story starts right after the events of book two, which is mean we're still in current day London...merely a week after the events of Book One.The Goods ; fast act
Are you into creepy vintag-Forget about that already, I got that far for the story itself..In its darkest godforsaken loop, the real life, Victorian Devil's Acre.Where the epic concluded...but the Peculiardom truly, fully established.Okay, and there's still again Creepy Vintage Photos....
the possession of the most powerful Peculiar souls..The Goods ; the Setting is fantastic, Devil's Acre is a real dark place in a dark era of Victorian London..
I wish I could give this 100000000000 stars! Bittersweet to have finished this series. Every book just got better and better. Ransom Riggs - you bloody legend
So,the third installment of Ransom Rigg's trilogy of Miss Peregrine and her Peculiar Children was hands-down the best.
I won't say much (ever fearful that I will spoil half of the plot...) but the book is an utter roller-coaster.
Also, Miss Peregrine is a real kick-ass heroine in this one (and I really hate this expression, but it is the only suitable for her).I had only one small nitpicking about the end.(view spoiler)[It felt too lovey-dovey, too ''they lived happily ever - after, but that is just my taste.
No need to pay it attention;) (hide spoiler)]Ransom Riggs has created a fabulous universe, bleak and hopeful and wonderful in all its peculiarity.
THIS NEEDS TO BE HERE NOW BECAUSE YOU KNOW HOW HOLLOW CITY ENDED???CLIFFMOTHER FUDGINGHANGERRRRRRRRRRRR
The rescue mission was sort of enjoyable, but also kind of irritating with Jacob and Emma jumping from one place to another and meeting new and convenient characters all so they could save Miss Peregrine and their friends.
There needed to be more plot threads, the rescue mission just didn't feel like enough of a storyline to fill an entire novel, so things were unnecessarily dragged out and it made a lot of parts read like pure filler.-Jacob turned into a mega speshul snowflake with his one of a kind newly discovered powers (that he managed to master in a mere few days).
AND ITS GOT A NAME! It sounds spooky and mystery and creepy and everything I love about this series! Gimmie, gimmie, gimmie!---Jk, September ain't so far away...---waddoyoummean 2016?!
I feel pretty sad right now, as I actually think, that despite all of the amazing reviews this book got, personally, that this book was the worst of the lot.
I love the whole concept behind these books, and I especially enjoyed the first book, but this one, was really lacking a story for me.
It was all fairly predictable.The rescue mission involved some new characters, but these were not appealing enough to hold my attention, and the actual rescue mission, was very dragged out, tiresome, and was too long to fill the story out.Caul, was a particularly disappointing character.
*4.5 SOULSTEALING STARS* "It had become one of the defining truths of my life that, no matter how I tried to keep them flattened, two-dimensional, jailed in paper and ink, there would always be stories that refused to stay bound inside books. It was never just a story.” Oh my, the quote above is one of the most beautiful ones I ever encountered in a book! It perfectly describes my feelings about books!This book was most definitely my favorite of all three books in this series. Not a single dull
"It had become one of the defining truths of my life that, no matter how I tried to keep them flattened, two-dimensional, jailed in paper and ink, there would always be stories that refused to stay bound inside books.
It was never just a story.”
Suffice to say, I loved it!After reading book one, I wasn't all that impressed and wasn't in the mood to continue this series.
Suddenly I couldn't wait to continue, and boy am I beyond glad I did!
The first book just didn't do the rest of the story any justice.Full review coming soon!
I honestly really can't wrap my mind around that and make it true.
It's like Ransom Riggs can do no wrong when it comes to Peculiar children.Library of Souls was so freaking good.
I was completely hooked and enamored by this book.
The library of souls, well..
Then there's Jacob, who will forever be my favorite character, was even more amazing in this book.
Which, honestly, I didn't think could happen..
He grew so much in this book and when he finally mastered his ability I was cheering for him so loudly.
Highly recommend this series because it's amazing!
4.4 This volume might be the best in the entire trilogy. It's an enjoyable and convenient conclusion to an excellent series. The story was darker, more menacing, and scary at times, although it felt draggy on some parts especially when it gets too descriptive in detail. I feel quite sad right after finishing this because I was immersed in this strange world I'd come to know from the two prior installments. I'm bummed to see Jacob and the peculiar children's adventures in Peculiardom come to an
This volume might be the best in the entire trilogy.
It's an enjoyable and convenient conclusion to an excellent series.
The story was darker, more menacing, and scary at times, although it felt draggy on some parts especially when it gets too descriptive in detail.
I feel quite sad right after finishing this because I was immersed in this strange world I'd come to know from the two prior installments.
I'm bummed to see Jacob and the peculiar children's adventures in Peculiardom come to an end.
I highly recommend the Miss Peregrine's series!
this trilogy is definitely for you.
This is an enjoyable finale to this excellent trilogy.
Hollow City ended with the biggest cliff hanger and Library of Souls starts straight into the action where we left off.
In fact action would be the best single word to describe this book because it is practically non stop.
The story was like a roller coaster racing towards a conclusion and that conclusion ended up being very satisfactory indeed.
There is talk that there may be more books about this world but it does not matter if there is not .
This trilogy is quite complete in itself and I am very happy I have read it.
Get them back or die trying . . .  These books seem to be released just far enough apart for me to forget EVERYTHING that happened in the previous novel. If you, like me, need a refresher course on the events of Hollow City, Wiki has a nice synopsis - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hollow_...And they're off! While Jacob struggles to master his newly discovered and incredibly useful talent, the Peculiars are on a quest to rescue Miss Peregrine, the ymbrynes and the other Peculiars. Maybe it's jus
My eyes were still adjusting to the dark, but what I could see was terrifying: winding and mazelike, it was lined with doorless doorways that gaped like missing teeth, and it was alive with sinister sounds - murmurs, scrapes, scurrying steps.
Despite the fact that Sharon possesses a face only a mother gargoyle could love, he sure warmed my cockles.Then there was this:"Okay, okay, don't waste all your energy on them," Emma said, wobbling to her feet.
She lost it."All right, someone's gonna get their face melted!" she yelled, waving a flaming hand at the squatters.And, my favorite bit - (view spoiler)[a peanut gallery comprised of sarcastic severed heads.
Well I did enjoy this series a ton and it was recommended to me by a student at the school I used to teach at. I wouldn't have picked up these books on my own, but I'm glad I did. The first will always be my favorite. I'm glad they ended on a happy note, but I was hoping for something different, like Jacob leaving his family for the peculiars. Not them coming to him and staying. All in all great books.
This book was received from the publisher in exchange for an honest review.This is definitely the kind of book that will leave you reeling for days and days. Even a few pages in, I knew Library of Souls was going to be my favorite book of the Miss Peregrine’s Peculiar Children trilogy. Ransom Riggs’s writing just gets better and better, the adventures get bigger, and my heart gets more and more attached to Jacob and Emma. Read More on my blog!
Co-read with the offspring, and while it was not precisely a root canal sans anesthetic, it was indeed painful.
The author should have stuck to just the first book in this series and then wrote something else entirely.One thing that was pretty pitiful right up front was that the main character and his girlfriend were bemoaning the kidnapping of their friends - they had this sad chat while they were on a train, taking care of another buddy of theirs who had been injured.
They swore they would never ever leave a friend behind again.
The very first thing they do?
THEY LEAVE THEIR FRIEND BEHIND.
I enjoyed this, but so much of the same things kept happening.How many time could Jacob almost die!?!? HahahaBesides that, I love the characters with my whole heart, and the ending was absolutely spectacular.
It is here were Jacob's friends are kept and with the help of a mysterious boatman called Sharon and one of Miss Peregrine's brothers, he will come face to face with who is the real mastermind of who is behind what he sees and what is the "Library Of Souls"Just like the first two books in the series, "Library Of Souls" is a thrilling story that is complemented beautifully by photo's that are both eerie and compelling.
The adding of Devil's Acre, with it's wretched slums add's a new dimension to the story and with a fast pace makes for a read you don't want to end.
[3.5 Stars] I think the main reason for my rating is that I just gradually lost interest in the story over the years since I first read the first book.
When I picked this one up to finish, I was very hesitant, and it actually took me three times for it to stick and continue past 25 pages.
I had forgotten how much I enjoyed learning about the children's powers and the fantasy side of the story.
I actually think if I do a reread, this book would bump up in rating, so hopefully I'll read it again and see!
Woohoo, It took me some time to get through it, but I did it!I am very sad about the fact that I actually thought this was the worst one. I had a hard time getting through it, because I felt like being stuck at the same thing for so long. Loved the pictures as always, but it felt like the author was out of ideas after the second book.
Kind of long winded, but at least it gave closure to the series. I just wish it had discussed more of the peculiar children we've all ready met, rather than introducing new ones!
