https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2802316-shadow-kiss
Christina Yang: I’m calling it.
Time of death: 17:35Meredith Grey: Hold it… She deserves another chance.
It’s not her fault Richelle Mead is so cruel to her readers.
Christina Yang: Meredith, this is hopeless.
Go watch one of Derek’s surgeries and leave me alone to deal with this corpse.Meredith Grey: Christina, I’m telling you, this is not the end for her.
*lowers head* Plus Derek is sort of mad at me right now…Christina Yang: *stares* Yeah, but you’re one in a million and you had everyone fussing over you for days so don’t try to compare her situation with yours.
Christina Yang: Oh, shut up.
"It won't happen to you. You're too strong. You'll fight it, just like you did thistime.""I only did because you were here." He wrapped his arms around me, and I buried my face in his chest. "I can't do it by myself," I whispered."You can," he said. There was a tremulous note in his voice. "You're strong—you're so, so strong. It's why I love you.”   “Don't worry, little dhampir. You might be surrounded by clouds, but you'll always be like sunshine to me.”  Oh my god!!! I can't!!! That ending br
Oh my god, at first I felt so happy that finally Rose and Dimitri found a way to be together (and made love of course :P) and then that happen!!!!
I’m not going to let anything happen to you.”  2)Finally, Lissa finds out about Dimitri and Rose!
And she is in love with Dimitri even though he is Strigoi!
Dimitri and I did that, and look what happened.
There were parts of the story that I figured out, and even though I wanted the novel to end one way, I applaud Mead’s unpredictability.
I knew that something big was going to happen to one of the characters in this novel.
And even though I had an idea of what was going to happen, Mead was still able to surprise me in the end.
The ending wasn’t what I wanted I’ll admit that, but I don’t think I would have been happy with it being any other way.
One of the reasons I’m such a fan of this novel, besides the extraordinary writing ability of Richelle Mead, is Rose Hathaway.
I think I have to assume that something devastating will happen in every series that Mead writes.
I sort of saw what was going to happen coming but it didn't make it any less horrible.
I'm actually still feeling the effects of this novel and I had to quickly order the next two books to find out what happens.
I think I could read about Rose and her friends all day every day and not get bored.
Honestly though, I think I feel this way about all of Mead's heroines so I could be biased.
I can't write a proper review for this. My little heart is too broken for it.THAT ENDINGOkay okay I just hope the other books are good as well. I mean, I've heard this one is the best one so far and then it all just fades. Maybe the hype will fade maybe it'll grow I don't know. But I just hope Richelle Mead doesn't disappoint with them.
Well holy shiiiiiiiiiit @ the end of this.
5 OMG Dimitri Stars   all kinds of SPOILERS up in this piece!!! It's like one huge spoiler OMG OMG OMFG so much happened in this book I can't even wrap my mind around it. Rose is having all kinds of issues. Thanks to being Shadow kissed and bonded to Lissa she is taking all the dark emotions and crazy that Lissa gets from using her magic and it is flowing though the bond to Rose. This is making Rose act crazy, angry and at times totally out of control and dangerous. Also Rose is seeing Mason's
Thanks to being Shadow kissed and bonded to Lissa she is taking all the dark emotions and crazy that Lissa gets from using her magic and it is flowing though the bond to Rose.
Rose and Dimitri make love for the first time.
There is a huge Strigoi attack on the school right after Dimitri and Rose make love.
The next day Rose drops out of school and goes after Dimitri with the plan to hunt down and kill the man she loved, the man that is now Strigoi!
I think this might be one of those series that get more interesting with each new book.
The worst part is that I don't even have the next book.
(view spoiler)[➨ So Dimitri can't be strigoi.
We need to get Dimitri back!
My favorite part was when Rose finally snapped "THIS ISN'T ABOUT YOU!
I feel like Rose is going to be so much better without Lisa because she can finally focus on herself and not run to Lisa's rescue every time she breaks a nail.
I just need to know if we get Dimitri back.
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Μα πώς είναι δυνατόν να νιώθω τόσο απελπισμένη και να κλαίω, ενώ ήξερα και ξέρω τι θα γίνει???Πώς είναι δυνατόν, ενώ ξέρω τη συνέχεια, να ανυπομονώ να διαβάσω τη συνέχεια??
Πώς είναι δυνατόν από τη στιγμή που διάβασα τη λέξη buria να βουρκώνω??
Πώς είναι δυνατόν να νιώθω έτσι???
:(((Το τέλος αυτό θα με σκοτώνει όσες φορές κι αν το διαβάσω!Είναι τόσο άδικο!
Τόσο τόσο άδικο!!!!
Τόσο τόσο λίγο!!!Δεν υπήρχε κάτι που να μη λατρεύω σε αυτό το βιβλίο!
Για μένα είναι το καλύτερο της σειράς.
Η Ρόουζ και ο Κρίστιαν!
Ο Ντιμίτρι και η Ρόουζ!
So far, Shadow Kiss is my favorite book in the series.
Richelle Mead steps up her game on a number of fronts, in my opinion.Plot, characterization, style, pacing and romance.
All of these receive a marked improvement.The VA world becomes more real, relatable and defined.
The relationship become more involved, less childish and the main character, Rose, receives a healthy dose of adulthood.I am coming to really enjoy these books.
I wouldn't have continued past the first one without the encouragement of Tatiana and her niggling carrot-on-a-stick comment about Adrian.
I still feel that I would choose the Fever Series any day over these.
OH MY GOD with this book. I can't believe it. I'm crying right now :(. I wasn't expecting that. THAT. Oh, this book was amazing and I loved it, but the ending broke my heart.
(hide spoiler)]I've come too far not to try out Blood Promise and, who knows, maybe I'll actually like it.
I really like the mix of vampire politics amidst the love and heartbreak.
For example, Rose has been brought up her entire life believing that Moroi "come first" and should always be protected, even to the point of laying her life down for them.
Dhampirs, like Rose, are little other than instruments to ensure the safety of Moroi royalty.
I hope not, but taking Rose away from the setting I've come to love...
I knew that Dimitri was either going to be killed or turned.
Once things started working out with him and Rose and all that, I knew something was going to happen.
I don't know if it is possible, but I hate Dimitri being evil.
I really liked Christian in this book and am interested to see how things develop for his character.
I want Rose and Dimitri to be together, but since that's no longer possible, I don't thing I would mind if Rose gets together with Adrian in the future.
I HAVE SO MANY EMOTIONS RIGHT NOW AND I CAN'T STOP CRYING.Why did I think reading this series would be a good idea, WHY?
I am so upset right now after reading that ending!
I am also glad about Eddie and how he changed over time even though it was a little sad.Speaking of sadness, this book had so many sad parts, especially nearing the end.
Rose has to figure out a way to get him changed back!There was a slight cliff hanger at the end but I still liked it.On a parting note, this gif pretty much sums up how I saw Rose at the end of the book:Only if Teresa Palmer had dark hair, tanner skin, and Rose had some fire powers that Christian had.
DNF 10%Can't continue with this.It's so cheesy and I never liked the main character and I don't feel like reading about vampires anymore.
I feel like it doesn't get better than this.Rose is finally becoming more mature,the whole story was really interesting and captivating,there are a lot of serious issues and topics included in this book and the characters are finally starting to feel...real.If that makes any sense.That ending was so intense-I would have never ever thought that a Vampire Academy novel was going to make me cry but it really happened.I don't think that the rest of the series can take this book off the throne when it comes to making you feel all the feels.Also,this monologue is probably the best thing Rose has ever said:
I didn't really enjoy the first two books of the Vampire Academy Series but I adored this one!
Shadow Kiss has a ton more action & I actually feel for the characters!
Rose is quickly becoming one of my all time favorite female characters.
I mean I like her don't get me wrong but I just feel like she could be more.
In the begininng of the series I was all 'ehhh' on him.
He is growing on me.Adrian- I love this character.
Hilarious, dark, I love finding out more about him.I loved this book & am excited to read the rest of the series!!!
I'll admit, the ending rocked because of what it means for R&D. There is nothing I love more than a lovers-turned-enemies storyline....
(I was wrong about this too, hindsight changes everything, people.) What I also liked was how the Moroi monarchy/politics system worked and we saw how they functioned too when Rose & Lissa travel there to visit Queen Tatiana in the Royal Court.I also love how in this book, there was a multiple storyline going on and each character had their own arc: - e.g. Lissa being with Christian when the Queen wanted her to be paired up with Adrian, causing Christian to be jealous of Adrian whilst Rose having to choose between Lissa and Dimitri (I don’t give a rat’s ass if you think it’s romance, it isn’t, it’s glorifying hero-worship), how it all intertwines together to create drama (that’s isn’t something like Gossip Girl or Days of Our Lives) that is realistic and not exaggerated is a plus for me, because mostly in YA, there is so much bullshit in the air that I can smell it when turning over the pages.Now on to the characters:- in my honest opinion, Rose seems to be getting more immature & hypocritical as the story goes on.
(I realized that I wasn't able to make a review of this book.
I loved this sequel because everything that happened here was remarkable.
I saw the strength of character Rose was able to develop.
The great aspect of this book was the climax which was super awesome.
Richelle Mead took a great risk in pursuing that plot twist but hey, she was able to pull it off!
I also loved the development of some supporting characters here, including Adrian, Christian, and Lissa.
As a whole, this book is kick-ass!
I loved everything in it!Rating: 5 Stars
"Τρέξε!" μου φώναξε ξανά.Έτρεξα, μαζί με τα δάκρυα που έτρεχαν ποτάμι στο πρόσωπό μου.Και τα δικά μου, Ρόουζ! Και τα δικά μου!
Let me express my feelings of this book by using this gifThat pretty much sums up my feelings for this book.
En este libro las emociones no hacen mas que aumentar a cada página, llegas a un punto en que la acción, la pasión, el romance y el peligroso no te dejan parar de leer.Hasta ahora mi favorito de la saga. Ademas el final esta de muerte, no puedo creer ninguna de las cosas que pasaron al final de este libro. Reseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com/2015/0...
I know exactly what is going to happen and I was unfortunately spoiled about the ending of this book before I even read it the first time.
All the freaking gossip about Rose like:owh my gawd, did you hear....Rose is it tarue that......You should TOWTALLY become a blood whore...Rose do you rilly hate Christian Ozera??Rose why are u such a bitch?Rose is it tarue you're only doing half-time because ur mentally unhinged??You get the idea.....blatant and total 100% asshole-ism.
I love Dimka SO much!!We know Rose (view spoiler)[was a virgin (hide spoiler)].
Rose is all like "I know he would hate himself if he knew he turned Strigoi.
DNF. There's just so many other books I'd rather read instead. Might try picking this series up later, but I doubt it.
Shadow Kiss is the third installment in The Vampire Academy Series and it is by far, my favorite book in the series! I mean, how can I not? It's so good!Adele won 6 Grammy in the past Grammay's. What does she have to say about the book?Adele approves! Summary Shadow Kiss continues the story of the main character, Rose Hathaway and her education in becoming a Guardian. Rose knows it is forbidden to love another guardian. Her best friend Lissa- the last Dragomir princess- must always come first. U
Shadow Kiss continues the story of the main character, Rose Hathaway and her education in becoming a Guardian.
I love Rose's character.
I love her.My husband, Harry approves too!Forgive me if you will, but I totally do not like Lissa's character.
Anyway, well in the book Rose and Christian are going to be sort-of close but only as friends.
Especially whatever will happen to them throughout this book, they've went through a lot and that proves that love conquers all.
In the next book, I'm sure I'll be reading a whole new side of Rose.
Love the ending, totally.
The worst cliffhanger in the history of cliffhangers. And all the feels on top of it. I feel dizzy...
"I set off, off to kill the man I loved."4.5WOW. Definitely the most intense book in the series so far! I even teared up a bit at the end!
Shadow Kiss started off slow, but ended up being great.
I really like how Ms. Mead takes things to a level where not everything has a happy ending.
It has realistic qualities for being a young adult paranormal book.
I felt Rose's pain and confusion as she struggled with what she had to deal with being "shadow kissed".
I enjoyed her interactions with Lissa, Dmitri and Adrian.
Even though I inadvertently knew a big piece of the story, it didn't happen as I envisioned.
This book has a lot of heart, emotion and I totally agree with what Rose was planning to do at the end.
