https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/716872.The_Essential_Writings_of_Ralph_Waldo_Emerson
He is ashamed before the blade of grass or the blowing rose.
There is simply the rose; it is perfect in every moment of its existence.
Its nature is satisfied, and it satisfies nature, in all moments alike.
But man postpones or remembers; he does not live in the present, but with reverted eye laments the past, or, heedless of the riches that surround him, stands on tiptoe to foresee the future.
He cannot be happy and strong until he too lives with nature in the present, above time."-from the Essay on Self-Reliance

Can anybody truly be done reading emerson?
Always a delight.The must-read essay for every American is "Self-Reliance." America's strain of rugged individualism starts right here with Emerson.
Just be sure to read some Melville to counter-balance Emerson's excesses.My personal favorite is the address to the Harvard Divinity School, where Emerson explodes the authoritarian bent of Christianity as it was then taught.
Emerson again goes too far in this address when he belittles Christ's mission.
Powerful stuff.Other favorites: The Transcendentalist (you probably read it in high school), Nature, Gifts, and Politics.It's a great book to have on your shelf.
Mary Oliver, the best selling poet in America told me simply, “Emerson is all you need.”Though Emerson writes on a myriad of topics, his thematic core is consistent: “All things are made of one hidden stuff.” “The world globes itself in a drop of dew.” “The heart and soul of all men being one, this bitterness of his and mine ceases; I am my brother and my brother is me.” Emerson believes that God has taken on a myriad of disguises, and we are all It, and so is the leaf, the stone, the grass, the mountain, and the cloud.
I'm not much interested in doctrinal issues in Christianity such as examined in "An Address to Harvard Divinity School" and "The Lord's Supper" or such spiritual essays as "The Over-Soul," which I found about as relevant to reality as a horoscope.And for a quintessential American philosopher (not that Thoreau was much better in this) I couldn't help but note that Emerson pretty much ignores any American intellectuals such as Franklin, Paine, Hamilton, Madison, Jefferson et al to pretty much load up instead on classical allusions.
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr. called Emerson's address "The American Scholar" America's "Intellectual Declaration of Independence," but I couldn't see it in that essay.
Don't think I'll read the whole thing, but:At first I had no clue what Emerson was talking about, and I chalked it up to him being all transcendentalist.
Then I read (ironically enough) "Transcendenalist" and not only did I become convinced that (1) Emerson is worth reading and (2) Emerson is worth reading as philosophy but also that (a) he lines up well with a lot of pragmatic ideas and (b) he lines up well with a lot of my own personal intuitions (which also line up well with pragmatism at times.) These last two items surprised me, a lot.
It's strikes me as intuitively familiar but also provides a new perspective.
Ralph Waldo Emerson is probably my favorite philosopher/poet.
He combines poetry and prose wonderfully, treating human affairs, emotions and morals purely as aspects of nature, and all of nature as having the same soul as people.
Despite him having written in the mid 19th century, and often writing more as a poet than most philosophers, his writing is pretty straightforward (though perhaps not as much as his friend Henry David Thoreau's).
As of now I don't think I will ever stop reading and rereading his essays, I get so much out of them each time, they have a way of making me feel optimistic and inspired, as much and probably more than any other philosophical or theological writings I've read.
The answers to all of my questions about life can be found in the pages of this book. Love, friendship, nature, politics, ethics, and the complex challenges that make up human experience are all examined in a moving, beautiful, eloquent and fiercely intelligent way. A cherished part of my library.
this is my jack off material. gorgeous language. "self-reliance" is life changing.
anti-slavery racist, which is better than a pro-slavery racist. pantheist mysticism. philistine naturalism (i.e., 'transcendentalism'). bleh.
Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803 – 1882)« Essential writings »Emerson’s essays’ are the mirror of his vast knowledge drawn from extensive readings in ancient historical philosophies and religions, as well as personal studies of theology and preaching in his younger years as a minister of the Protestant Church.Not unlike Montaigne, he quotes throughout his writings, words, beliefs, and thoughts of Plato, Heraclitus, Aristotle, Zenon, Epicurus, and other, more recent, philosophers.He will also quote ancient religious sources, Brahman, Egyptian, Hebraic, and Islamic.
Very dense in contents, his wisdom and knowledge all stacked up throughout, with little space for the reader to absorb the avalanche of input, so that for me at length it was really difficult.
While I thought some of his ideas were rather questionable - I'm not a big fan of natural theology (at least as I understand it) - his positions were still clearly made and forced me to seriously consider a number of my positions.
When grappling with a giant of his stature, almost every essay is torturous in a most wonderful manner.
Here's an example of some of his writing from the essay on Intellect, talking about role-models and favorite authors that sums up a lot of my feelings: "Take thankfully and heartily all they can give.
Back to Basics: Reading EmersonReading Emerson might make readers slightly sad (more about that later), not that Emerson expresses gloom in his most influential essays: Nature, TheDivinity School Address, and Self Reliance. His words reflect the optimism he felt for the power of the individual to understand how they fit into the world and how they might serve their community and country. A child of the American Revolution, he and his audience...Continue reading on Examiner.com: The Essential Writings of Ralph Waldo Emerson: Why are they essential? - National Green Living | Examiner.com http://www.examiner.com/green-living-...
This is a very deep book--very fitting for a deep person such as myself. :o) Seriously, this book is a lot to chew and I'm only reading it for English. However, I can honestly say that the parts I understood really were kind of interesting.
I read most of this collection during an independent study during my junior year of college. I picked it up again last night and can't put it down; Emerson changed the way I think about everything.
"To the attentive eye, each moment of the year has its own beauty; and in the same field, it beholds, every hour, a picture which was never seen before and which shall never be seen again."
Ahhhh......if only we lived in the same era and could share a cup of coffee on a big white porch of a grand old house on main street USA.
Repetition beautifully articulated.
The Essential Writings of Ralph Waldo Emerson contains what it says.
It is an annotated collection of the writings of noted American Scholar Ralph Waldo Emerson.
All of his major works are included and I am hard pressed to think of anything that is not in the book.
This is mainly because I am not a scholar of Emerson’s works.
The book also contains a biography that glosses over Emerson’s life.
They accomplish it well enough though.It is difficult to boil down the life and works of a person as prolific as Emerson, and the book is over 800 pages long.
My ratings of books on Goodreads are solely a crude ranking of their utility to me, and not an evaluation of literary merit, entertainment value, social importance, humor, insightfulness, scientific accuracy, creative vigor, suspensefulness of plot, depth of characters, vitality of theme, excitement of climax, satisfaction of ending, or any other combination of dimensions of value which we are expected to boil down through some fabulous alchemy into a single digit.
I read Emerson's short book "Nature," collected within this collection. Emerson's brand of non-Christian natural spirituality is fascinating, but his writing style doesn't do much for me. I wouldn't be surprised if Emerson's recommendation to go into nature influenced Thoreau at Walden. So: 3 stars for the purple prose, 5 stars for this anthology of a nineteenth-century superstar's most famous work, and an average of 4 stars overall for the volume.
“Self-Reliance” contains the most prominent of Ralph Waldo Emerson’s philosophies: the need for each individual to avoid conformity and personal inconsistencies, and to follow their own instincts and ideas. You’re to rely on your own self versus going with the ebbs and flows of culture at large. Other essays in the collection focus on friendship, history, experience, and more.
Love the philosophy, amazed at how commonplace his ideas are now, and really enjoyed his poetry. However, I surprisingly did not care for his prose, which I found a bit obtuse and generally lacking in any flow.
Struggling to find myself, my voice, my LIFE apart from others, despite others, determined to rise above & not repeat the same mistakes, make the same poor choices, prove myself to be "SELF-SUFFICIENT."more importantly NOW, all these years later, it is more about being PRESENT, living in the MOMENT, striving to strike a balance while respecting the past, so as NOT to repeat it...while having HOPE for the future, but not being so overwhelmed as to become lost in the anxiety, fear, or even excitement of the possibilities!
it just might help make sense of some of Life's biggest questions.
or at least help you figure-out FOR YOURSELF what is best for YOU.The contents of THIS book were contained in SEVERAL smaller texts that were lost over time from my collection.
Emerson writes with the self-assurance of one who has lived a life in the name of beauty and truth.
The poetry and humanity which instills vivacity and zest to his rational arguments breathes life not only into his work but also into the heart of the reader.
Not merely because they are beautiful, not merely because they are classic literature, not merely because they have in no small portion influenced the western world and in so influenced most of us, but because they illuminate so directly and unarguably to the reader such an essential portion of the nature of human life, Emerson's essays are absolutely critical reading.
I will be a honest, this collection is a commitment and it's not for everyone but if you have the same thirst for knowledge and genuine joy for learning as I do, Emerson is the thinker for you.
Savvy if not yet modern, insightful without being patronizing or pushy, much of what Emerson put to paper is still relevant today.But if there is only one thing I can recommend from the entire collection above all else, it is his American Scholar essay.
Every university student, past, present and future should read it.
It will enrich your entire school experience in your mind, heart and memories.
Emerson is always listed as a big influence on most of the writers I like so I wanted to check it out.
I really thought it was going to be dry but it wasn't.
I would have to say that his honest observations of life have their own unique elegance.
His style is rudimentary but hits some of the most important questions in life.
I wish I would have read it in adolescence.
I really liked Self-Reliance, but it wasn't my favorite.
I would say that his part on compensation was my favorite.
I would say at least give it a shot...
This is a huge book that contains not only every influential essay Emerson wrote, but also a lot of his poetry and a very good introductory biography. Emerson is the perfect author for those who are going through a philosophical awakening and are looking for insights into the world and the way we as humans relate to it, and therefore ourselves. Don't expect a fully developed, systematic philosophy here; transcendentalism is more of a way of seeing things.Self-Reliance remains my personal favorite.
To be honest, I haven't even come close to reading this entire book - I think I was assigned two or three essays in a college sophomore English class. But the presence of "Self-Reliance" alone makes it an essential part of my desert-island library. This is the essay where Emerson makes the famous statement "Trust thyself," and the rest of the essay lays out why. "Self-Reliance" is the ultimate weapon against any bout of insecurity or low self-esteem.
