https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6665671-please-ignore-vera-dietz
I have been lucky enough to read a LOT of great books this year and up until now I had a clear I-shine-above-the-rest favourite: On the Jellicoe Road. Though I am actually going to be daring enough to say to all you Marchetta-obsessed bookaholics that for me Please Ignore Vera Dietz could compete with the sad and beautiful emotional turmoil I felt for On the Jellicoe Road.There are two young adult topics that always make me think "oh, not again", and they are:1) teen pregnancy, and2) coping wit
Though I am actually going to be daring enough to say to all you Marchetta-obsessed bookaholics that for me Please Ignore Vera Dietz could compete with the sad and beautiful emotional turmoil I felt for On the Jellicoe Road.There are two young adult topics that always make me think "oh, not again", and they are:1) teen pregnancy, and2) coping with the death of a loved oneThese subjects are so overdone that the mere thought of tackling yet another piece of this melodramatic drivel makes my head ache...
I don't know how it happened, but I've read quite a few YA books about death and grief over the last couple of months (I Heart You, You Haunt Me, Revolution, Amy & Roger's Epic Detour), however Please Ignore Vera Dietz is definitely the one I enjoyed the most.
Vera has to work through many deliciously convoluted aspects of her friendship with Charlie in her mind to finally find peace with him...Please Ignore Vera Dietz is the kind of story I love to read the most in YA fiction.
As a whole, Please Ignore Vera Dietz is just one clever novel.
People in nowhere town, nowhere country France never stopped reminding him that he didn't belong : part Algerian, part Parisian (like a different nationality for them really), he was the kid parents warned their children against, because god forbid any kind of open-mindedness.
Reading Please Ignore Vera Dietz felt like that, and this story reached to old and hidden parts of me I didn't even remembered.This is my second book from A.S. King, and by far the strongest.
So many characters in this book struggle against what they think are their destiny : Vera, her father, Charlie.
SPOILER FREE REVIEW: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FCT9M...Now it's not often that I give books 1 star, but I just hated this one. I can see why other people would like it, but it was definitely not for me.
There was a reason Charlie was such a bright blazing sun. He came from endless cold, black space. I couldn’t sleep after finishing Please Ignore Vera Dietz.I gave up on trying to untangle my emotional reaction from my critical thoughts, all hopelessly snarled together with lingering question marks, and just lay staring into the dark. The story refused to seep quietly into my consciousness, to be filed away neatly into a mental catalogue: good writing, interesting characters, believable dialogue
I couldn’t sleep after finishing Please Ignore Vera Dietz.I gave up on trying to untangle my emotional reaction from my critical thoughts, all hopelessly snarled together with lingering question marks, and just lay staring into the dark.
The story refused to seep quietly into my consciousness, to be filed away neatly into a mental catalogue: good writing, interesting characters, believable dialogue etc, etc.
Vera, Charlie, Ken, Jenny – they were characters, but I realised that over the course of the book they had become real to me.
It's a book where the main characters, Charlie, Vera, Ken are portrayed in all shades of grey, where there is no absolute good or bad (well, except for Jenny and Ken's mother who are the essence of evil).
I felt for Vera, because it is not easy to grow up in a situation where you are the product of your messed up parents and have to bear their cross on your back your whole life.
The book is not a 5 star for me for mainly two reasons: - I didn't like how the Vera/Dad relationship got dealt with in the end.
Please Ignore Vera Dietz is the book that kick-started A.S. King’s career as a writer.
Having read seven books from this author, I can safely say that she’s a YA writer you’ll want to check out if you need dept in your reads and like a little obscurity.
Having said that and though I acknowledge A.S. King’s beautiful lyrical writing, she isn’t one to go straight to the point.
Charlie and Vera have known each other since they were toddlers, but adolescence has affected the both of them in similar and yet such different ways that they’ve lost each other.
Her lifelong best friend Charlie just passed away under somewhat mysterious circumstances, the town blames him for something which tarnishes his reputation, and Vera is being harassed by some of her schoolmates.
The narration, which skips between Vera, her father, Charlie, and even a town architectural landmark, lets us know that the main characters are all worried about being foregone conclusions.
Charlie worried about becoming an abuser like his father.
I’m reading another book right now where someone has just passed away (Minding Frankie) and a character talks about that saying that a person remembered through memories or mentions is never truly gone.
I grew to really love Vera and the characters, and I could feel my heart breaking for her.Why I took off 2 stars-1 star: As much as I admire an author to passionately want to rub the human face in it's own vomit (that's JG Ballard, btw), I still am going to penalise less than perfect plot and story execution when I see it.
Seriously don't click on here unless you want to see the entire plot dissection: (view spoiler)[Vera needs to tell police Charlie didn't burn down the pet store and clear his name > spends all novel trying to avoid retrieving the "evidence" > finally retrieves "evidence" > "evidence" doesn't ACTUALLY clear Charlie's name.
Rule number one: Don't fall in love with your best friend.Oh please. Next you're going to tell me to control how the blood flows in my body. Here’s me using tandem in a sentence. We will learn to forgive ourselves in tandem.  I know I said I was ready, and it would be a privilege to have my heart broken by this book. But did you ever wonder about it? About all the pieces of you you leave behind with every book you read and every page you turn. That oxymoronic feeling of being fully empty. And th
I kept thinking this is Vera:She Used To Be MineIt's not what I asked for Sometimes life just slips in through a back door And carves out a person and makes you believe it's all true And now I've got you And you're not what I asked for If I'm honest, I know I would give it all back For a chance to start over and rewrite an ending or two For the girl that I knewWho'll be reckless, just enough Who'll get hurt, but who learns how to toughen up When she's bruised and gets used by a man who can't love And then she'll get stuck And be scared of the life that's inside her Growing stronger each day 'til it finally reminds her To fight just a little, to bring back the fire in her eyes That's been gone, but used to be mine Used to be mineThe whole Jenny drama:Between the Lines by Sara Bareilles
I am a little confused!
But also a little bit pleased with this one!
i am so confused) and mostly was about how we ignore things that are too difficult to face.
I definitely felt emotional a couple of times, like, gah, Charlie's life was just falling apart and so was Vera's, but she found a way (also having a loving dad helped) to stay on track, while Charlie just spiralled out of control.Although ultimately: (a) I am still kind of confused about so many things, and (b) I wish the secondary character, Charlie, had narrated instead of Vera.
Is it okay to hate him for being dead?” Please Ignore Vera Dietz is a story about a 18-year-old girl faced with the loss of her best friend.On one side, this novel is burdened with a scary amount of raw realism.
The funny yet touching flow charts, talking pagodas, best friends turned into pickles and thousands of haunting ghosts serve as a soothing balm that helps heal the wounds made by the all-too-possible first side of the story.
When it came time to resolve Vera's situation, I wanted King to choose one or the other, to either write an utterly realistic ending, or a completely absurd one.
I would follow this girl anywhere." I love a good voice.Vera is a high school senior grieving over her best friend's death, only at the time of his death, Charlie was her frenemy.
Vera is definitely one of them.The book is also scattered with POVs from her father (Ken), from Charlie, and from the town pagoda who's been around long enough to see pitfalls of the human condition.
It added to the complexity of the story and the characters.The only thing that really bothered me was I didn't feel satisfied with the answers Charlie gave.
(hide spoiler)]In the end I was satisfied with Vera's story and closed the book smiling.
3.5ish stars.I listened to this audiobook in two sittings!
I absolutely love A.S. King's writing style.
I think it's quirky without being corny and she did really well writing a teenager's voice.
That being said, I thought the plot of this book lacked a little bit of direction.
It wasn't reaaally a mystery, and it mainly jumped back and forth between past and present, which I typically don't enjoy but in this case, I was alright with it because the layout and writing was done so well.
Vera was awesome, nevertheless, and this book had a depth to it in the end that I wasn't expecting.
Oh, this was actually really good!I especially liked Vera's straight-forward narration and the way she didn't gloss over anything.
She mentioned periods, tampons and swearing, and it all felt very real.
All of the main characters in this book felt very tangible and real by the way.
I loved the way the relationship between Vera and her father was described and the way family dynamics in general were handled in this book.
In 'real life', no one is inherently good or evil, everyone has their flaws and their issues and A.S. King seemed to emphasize this in her book.
Especially things we shouldn't be ignoring.Kid bullying you at school?
If we're supposed to ignore everything that's wrong with our lives, then I can't see how we'll ever make things right."I'm so glad I assigned this book for my class, again; great excuse to re-read it, and I find something new within it each time I read it.
Vera's best friend since age 4, Charlie, died at the end of the summer, and Vera has been dealing with Charlie's death, but also the way he hurt her in the months leading up to his passing.
On the surface level, Please Ignore Vera Dietz is about the death of a girl's best friend.
Vera Dietz, the girl in question, has spent a solid portion of her life in love with Charlie Khan - the same boy she hung out with when she was a kid.
Vera comes to hate Charlie; however, when Charlie dies in a devastating way, will she be willing to clear his name?Please Ignore Vera Dietz isn't an easy read.
I ascertained the struggle Vera went through, but it wasn't all that clear or well-defined; it wasn't "my best friend died, now I feel grief" but much more complex and intriguing.King accomplished many tasks with this work.
Is it okay to hate a dead kid? Even if I loved him once? Even if he was my best friend? Is it okay to hate him for being dead? Vera's conflicting feelings toward Charlie after his death mirror mine over her story. I don't think I've ever been this conflicted over a book in all my years of reading.Vera Dietz has secrets: she has a crush on a boy five years her senior; she's drinking vodka coolers under the radar; and, perhaps her biggest secret of all, she knows a whole helluva lot more about he
I don't think I've ever been this conflicted over a book in all my years of reading.Vera Dietz has secrets: she has a crush on a boy five years her senior; she's drinking vodka coolers under the radar; and, perhaps her biggest secret of all, she knows a whole helluva lot more about her best friend's death than she's letting anyone in on.
(hide spoiler)]The best part of this story is Vera's reconnecting with her father and rebuilding a real relationship with him.
"Tem alguma coisa que não funciona quando você diz a uma pessoa o que ela deve ignorar.
Uma garota da sua sala está sendo violentada pelo padrasto e teve que ir pra clínica?
Não crie tumulto." Ninguém escreve YA contemporâneo como a A.S. King!A cada livro dessa mulher que eu leio, me apaixono mais por ela.
O livro não cai no clichê e trata a morte de uma maneira crua, real e muito dolorosa.
Situações que eu nunca me imaginei lendo em um livro, pontos de vista diferentes e muito criativos, uma escrita que flui e não dá vontade de parar.
Maybe we're supposed to see this book as some kind of painfully realistic tale, told by an overly honest narrator.
Even if he’s really just a misunderstood nice guy who hates certain races of people."And let's not forget about Jenny, the bad girl who wears lots of black eyeliner (SLUTTY), who stole Vera's best friend/crush, dresses in all black, and hurts puppies.
Sometimes you just need one of them mean sluts with no depth at all to make your book woth it, y'know...Random quotes because of reasons:"He’s so awesomely gorgeous and manly and hunky.
4 1/2 starsI know that I really enjoyed this one because I kept sneaking off on the other two books that I’m currently reading to cheat with it.
Vera’s very angry with Charlie at the beginning of this book, for reasons which the reader is slowly allowed to know through a series of flashbacks and hints.
Having gone through the abandonment of a parent, it was hard for me to buy in to the seeming happiness and acceptance from Vera and her father at the end of this book.
I really loved everything else about this book though – I highly recommend it!
This is my second A.S King novel: Everybody Sees The Ants, and now, Please Ignore Vera Dietz.
The two aforementioned that I have read and the two that I have added are listed as YA novels.
I can agree with this genre labeling because they deal with the lives of young adults, but the stories and the writing are such that, even as an older man, I found entertaining, gripping and pleasing due to the writing style of A.S. King.Please Ignore Vera Dietz is a coming of age tale that deals with some pretty big issues concerning loss and abandonment.
The plot in this book was a little hard for me to grasp.
I liked Vera and wish that the whole story would have been told by her.
The times where other people interjected were the weakest - did we really need a Pagoda point of view??
I really hated Charlie by the end of the book and I didn't understand ONE of his decisions.
You don't find out how he dies, which for me was frustrating since an autopsy would have been mandatory.
Lastly, I think the word "love" was thrown around too much.
It was an interesting story but it needed polishing.
4/5   Trigger Warning: death of a loved one  Please Ignore Vera Dietz is a heartbreaking book about love and loss.Vera’s spent her whole life secretly in love with her best friend, Charlie Kahn. And over the years she’s kept a lot of his secrets. Even after he betrayed her. Even after he ruined everything.So when Charlie dies in dark circumstances, Vera knows a lot more than anyone—the kids at school, his family, even the police. But will she emerge to clear his name? Does she even want to?I we
4/5   Trigger Warning: death of a loved one   Please Ignore Vera Dietz is a heartbreaking book about love and loss.Vera’s spent her whole life secretly in love with her best friend, Charlie Kahn.
Her mother left her at age 12, her father is an accountant and human self help book that thinks ignoring the problem is the best solution, and her best friend and neighbor, Charlie, is dead.
"If we're supposed to ignore everything that's wrong with our lives, then I can't see how we'll ever make things right.” The only problem I had with the book was how A.S. King changed POVs to inanimate objects and spoke to us directly.
But anyway- Vera Dietz, one of the most realistic (and likeable) heroines I have ever read, such a compelling story, AS Kings' writing is just ridiculously engaging and I honestly couldn't put it down, well-thought out characters (even the secondary ones), BEST DAD EVER, heart-breakingly honest, FLOW CHARTS and finally, I loved how it was told from different perspectives (even inanimate buildings!)
Low Point.GODDAMMIT CHARLIE, WHY ARE YOU DEAD?!Heroine.I feel I need to create a new award for Ms Dietz.
yeah, CK is dead and this lovely thing between him and Vera?
Vera is a likable character a reader can root for.
Yet, I am tired of the YA novel that focuses on depravity.
I also had a problem with the depth of the "evil" character, the nemesis of the protagonist Vera.
A seventeen year old girl who kills her boyfriend because he breaks up with her?
A girl who soaks the pet store with gasoline and sets it on fire?
A girl and her circle of friends whose cruelty is incomprehensible?
In this novel, they are the norm.I wish I'd read the jacket and not trusted the Printz award for excellence in young adult lit.
Somewhere between a 3.5 and a 4 for me. This book was ultimately a good one, but way too melancholy and slow for a readathon. I appreciated how much Vera's attempt to be a bad kid were ruined by what a good person she was, deep down. I enjoyed being in her head, even when she didn't.
It makes me feel like her characters are real people - like her books are memoirs instead of fiction.
I also love the structure of this book: it's written in tiny chapters, the longest ones being maybe 6 pages, which was cool because I felt like I kept getting new glimpses into the characters minds.
I loved Lucky, the main character of Everybody Sees the Ants.
I gave that book 5/5 and NONE of the characters there were likable!) My problem is not understanding Vera's decisions.
and for me, I want to understand the characters so that I can understand their transformations.Overall, I really did like this book a lot.
this one was so good! But also extremely sad!
Once upon a time there was a boy and a girl.They've been friends since forever, they cared for each other, they played and went to school together, they were inseparable.They fell in love....Until they grew up.Until things got complicated.Until there was no longer a boy and a girl.But only a girl, only Vera.....Please ignore Vera Dietz. "What is the sound of one hand clapping?"That's how I feel without Charlie. Like one hand clapping All her life Vera's been thought to 'ignore'.. To ignore the
"Please Ignore Vera Dietz" is a story that deals with some complex subjects.
I wanted to know more, to understand the characters better, to see what made them do the mistakes they did, to understand why there was no return point for them..I wanted more Charlie into the story, I wanted to understand Vera's mother, to know more about Vera's father, to punch Charlie's parents and his new 'friends'.
Still, they were all so human with all their mistakes and hopes, they all needed more.It was sad to see Vera and Charlie get more and more distant.
