https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39025347-twenty-million-tons-under-the-sea
Twenty Million Tons Under the Sea is the story of how he and the men serving on his destroyers and jeep carrier during WWII captured a German submarine before the Germans could scuttle it, providing a wealth of valuable intelligence to the allies (especially related to the German naval codes).What makes the book really interesting is the way that Gallery gets into the history of the sub he captured.
It makes you sympathize with those German submariners even if they were fighting for an evil totalitarian regime.My grandfather served on a liberty ship in the merchant marine during WWII, and he lived long enough to teach me about camping and fishing because men like Daniel Gallery kept him safe.
At the end of the book, there was a note to the reader that mentions www.digitalhistorybooks.com, and I imagine many of these books are associated with this.
I purchased another two such books for $0.99: Black History: The Story of the Schweinfurt Raid by Martin Caidin and Helmet for My Pillow by Robert Leckie.Considering that this book was first published in 1956 and that I'm not all that into military history, this was an interesting read.
The story was persuasive, diving into the lives at sea of the principal characters.
The number of times he made fun of scientists did irk me, but overall it was surprisingly pleasant to read.
An excellent tale recounting the actual events that led to the capture of U-505 and its final resting place in Chicago. Definitely on my to-do list. This is nothing like the move, U-571 with Matthew McConaughey, this is good.  The pace is well done and the recounting of actions in the North Atlantic are superb.  I would also point out, the author, Daniel V. Gallery is a man of strong, conviction and faith. He addresses the moral points of wart I’ve never read in such detail. He goes into detail
He addresses the moral points of wart I’ve never read in such detail.
They were tried for the same actions Gallery, Nimitz and King performed-unrestricted submarine warfare.
I enjoyed his analysis of the current geopolitical situation and how we viewed our enemy at the time-The USSR.
They would be much deadlier than the S and U-boats of World War Two. They knew they would be lethal but they could not imagine the capabilities these new weapons would carry.
Any World War Two buff wanting to know more about the Battle of the Atlantic.Five Stars
Gallery has compared the war diaries of the German captains with those of the U.S. captains and describes the cat-and-mouse game of near misses with knowledgeable excitement.However, the author cannot control inserting much stereotyping, generalization, and just plain offensive and derogatory remarks throughout his text.
He is also prone to guess what conversations might have taken place or what emotions might be felt by people he never met, reminding me a little of the "historical re-enactments" we see on a lot of TV shows.If you can get through the smarm and focus on the real acti0n, this is a good read about some specific Navy action in the Atlantic which is often ignored for the more sensational war stories of the South Pacific.
Fascinating Story of WWII Sea Battles of the AtlanticEnjoyed the basic first person narration of the Atlantic battles and the hunts of the German U-Boats and the hunts for them.
With the interwoven story of submarine U-505's capture.
Learned a great deal about the German Navy's strategic and tactical efforts in support of the country's over-arching political and cultural objectives.
Would have given a 4-star rating, but for the author's virulent attack on the Nuremberg trials, especially relating to admirals Raeder and Doenitz.
They were rightly convicted for aiding and abetting Hitler's quest for power and re-making a world within his murderous conception.
It was apparently written a little more than a decade after the war came to a close.
While I was still quite young at the time the U-505 was brought to Chicsgo, I remember much of what happened back then but this book offers many details I had not heard before and thoroughly enjoyed the story!
I have toured the U-505 several times since it came to test there.
I can only imagine the difficulties of getting the sun from Lake Michigan.
Closing down Lake Shore Drive would have been extremely difficult even in the 1950's!
Recommend this book highly!
The author presents a good picture of the beginning of the Battle for the Atlantic along with the evolution of the submarine and anti submarine warfare during the war up to the capture of the submarine and the crew and the immediate aftermath.
The Author does present some detailed statistics to advance the story but never enough to feel like you are reading a dry book of numbers.
I would recommend this book as a god read to fill in some of the gaps in other books I have read about the Battle for the Atlantic.
Very interesting account of U-boat operations and the allied tactics used to counter them. Gallery is a gifted author, able to blend excitement, humor, and perspective into this epic look at history in the Battle of the Atlantic. His closing epilog was a balanced look at how our political processes interacted with military operations at Nurnberg regarding the "crimes" of submarine warfare, and how we naively look at wars in general. Gallery was a great writer - wish he had written other books too.
I picked up this book because it was a $.99 deal on Amazon with medium expectations. Then when I found out it was a first hand account written shortly after the fact I had even lower expectations. I couldn't have been more wrong. The book was riveting (no pun intended). I couldn't put it down and went through the whole book in two days. The way the the author presented the whole story buttressed with other stories, historical records, and first and experience was very well done. Well worth the $.99 and quite a bit more.
Excellent summary of great naval plunder.Admiral Gallery speaks to a new millennium from the perspective of a commanding officer. It informs our American values and methods even today. A great story filled with ample background to satisfy military and particularly naval history buffs. Even mere civilians can appreciate the humor and foils the Admiral reveals. Far more important is the last chapter and warnings to (his) future and our current events.Read.
Up close and personal insight into the Capture of U-505I enjoyed this Book of the captue of the U-505 as well as the followup insight regarding the end of World War II. I enjoyed reading the view point from the author regarding the different justifications from politicians, the author, and others in respect to how a war is fought and how the defeated are persecuted when the war is over. Interested reading!
Excellent scenario of the capture of an enemy submarine.Well written narrative with appropriate examples and displays of procedures and practices laced with personal commentaries. The opinions are uncommon in contemporary writings but do provide an insight that is thoughtful. There is a sense of incongruity when trying to reconcile the philosophy of a significant combat leader with obvious pacifist perspectives.An engrossing read!
A True Naval ClassicYou will not find a finer example of what is the true nature of combat. I was fortunate enough to have heard Admiral Gallery speak describing his personal contribution in the high adventures that unfolded. This book is one that should remain in all personal libraries to be passed on to our next generations
The Book Got Better And BetterIt started off like a text book, but it got better as it went along. I mean REALLY good. once I got a chapter in, I couldn't put it down. I loved the stories he would tell as he went along and that just added to the draw of just one more page... thanks Daniel.
An interesting book. Well researched by the author. His keeping contact with some of the German sailors that were on the submarine was illuminating. I enjoyed his opinions regarding the Nurenburg Trials. The old adage, "the victors write the History" is appropro in this case. A good book, and interesting since it was written many years ago.
World War II StoryThis is an interesting book. It teaches the reader about the role and function of submarines in World War II. The author describes sub-hunting and what subs are capable of during a war. Some may not appreciate the author's opinions about the war, but he did carry out a role during the war and probably has a right to his views.
A great historical readThanks to author Gallery who penned this from the first person as it happened. He lived it and we are fortunate to be his beneficial audience. History in the making. I did have the opportunity to visit U505 not knowing or realizing the true story. And now I (we) know. Thanks!
Well - written story covering the battle of the Atlantic in overview to start, then focusing in on the events leading up to and including the capture of the U-505, from both the German and US sides of the story. From the commander of the US task force that effected the capture.
Well worth reading.Book was captivating in content and detail.I think some things may have been needlessly repeated. The eye opening routine of daily operations and procedures along with riviting suspense will keep you glued to the pages.
Worth the timeWritten by a guy who was actually involved and good historical background of the nasty Second World War. Very worthwhile descriptions of how those old Uboats operated.
Outstanding book, marred only by some sloppy editing by the publisher.Outstanding book, marred only by sloppy editing by the publisher. Also, I would have liked to seen the author's biography.
Good narrative, but some extraneous digression.The author would have been wiser to use facts in some cases, rather than opinion, especially when berating his superiors. This clearly does not negate the vast number of observations he alone could recount.
Excellent first hand accountVery well done account of the submarine war of wwII . It takes the story of one triumph and weaves in a great deal of the mindset of the commanders in both sides. Should make you appreciate just how lucky we are to have defeated the Nazi forces.
Pretty goodIn general, a good book, and I learned much that I didn't know about submarines as well. I was interested because I have visited the sub in Chicago. A few typos bothered me, but a good read.
EducationalA dynamic history of WW11 submarine action but is also a moral question on the proper method to wage seaborn war.
The real story of Das Boot.Very well-written book full of insights about an aspect of WW II few know and understand as well as this author.
Fascinating history of the Relatively UnknownThis book told the whole story in a very even handed way and was honest regarding both the good and the bad on both sides.
A naval educationI enjoy the story of the capture of the submarine. However, I was overwhelmed by the technical facts in the beginning chapters.
Good History of WW II Submarine War.This book is a well told story of WW II from a Naval Officer,s point of view. I highly recommend this book.
Timeless valuesI liked this first-hand account that was well-written and with solid values. It had the feel of a novel, but was all well-researched fact.
