https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117047.The_Blind_Watchmaker
a watch – I deduce that someone has lost a watch and it is here; also, I furthermore deduce that there must be a God.” Richard Dawkins says that watches, or indeed anything complicated, do not infer the existence of a watchmaker.
You could say well, here’s a book called The Blind Watchmaker and it says it’s by Richard Dawkins, so we see that Richard Dawkins is the author and he wrote this book, but Richard Dawkins would say NO!
We have, for instance, copies of the book which are called The Blond Watchmaker dating from the Devonian period – it took several millions of years for the Blond to evolve into the Blind, you see.
تشبیه «پالی» چنین بود که: «حتی اگر شما ندانید که ساعت چه چیزی هست، طراحی چرخ دنده‌ ها، و فنرها، و طرز چینش آنها، در کنار همدیگر، برای یک مقصود خاص، شما را وامی‌دارد که نتیجه بگیرید که: این ساعت باید سازنده‌ ای داشته باشد، کسی که آنرا به منظوری خاص طراحی کرده‌ است؛ سازنده‌ ای که از سازوکار آن آگاه‌ است، و کاربردی برای این طراحی داشته‌ است.
اگر این نتیجه‌ گیری در مورد یک ساعت ساده درست باشد، پس آیا کاملاً درست نیست که در مورد چشم، گوش، کلیه، مفصل آرنج، و مغز هم گفته شود، که طراحِ هوشمند و هدفمندی دارند؟ این ساختارهای زیبا، پیچیده، ظریف، و آشکارا طراحی‌شده به مقصود خاص هم باید طراحی، ساعت‌سازی، داشته باشند - که همانا خداست».
What use could you possibly have for that long, stupid tail?But, as Dawkins keeps reminding us, it's not about survival of the species, or even of the individual, but rather of the gene.
Suppose there's a sex-linked male gene that disposes towards long tails, and a sex-linked female gene that disposes towards finding long tails attractive.
Hence, if it's male, it'll have a long tail, and if it's female it will prefer males with long tails.
If this combination becomes common, long-tailed males will have a larger and larger advantage in terms of being preferred by females.
This must be the most boring of all Dawkins’ books, but I do not want to give up on him till I read ‘The Extended Phenotype’ which just might prove to be the best (scientifically) of all his works.
But, it still provides an opportunity to use Dawkins’ own method of caricature-based argument to paint a caricature of his own positions in ‘The God Delusion’ based on his own vitriolic stands in this book.
I will try to examine in detail how Dawkins has betrayed his own principles of scientific grounding and rational rigorousness in The God Delusion by using arguments and structures from this book in the review.
Read it for yourself.All his arguments are crystal clear, but he takes extra time to caricature the caricature of Darwinists, pointing out exactly how the ad absurdum argument really works while also elucidating the fine points of what Darwinism IS versus what it is NOT.He steps us through the first third of the book showing us how Selection works: from an energy standpoint, a competition standpoint, and a sexual standpoint...
But then again, I've only read one of his later books, the The Magic of Reality: How We Know What's Really True, which was just a charming bi-modal description of science versus magical thinking which also happened to "gently" draw people away from having to add that extra layer of explanation to reality.
A rather well-written book. I like the writing style of Pr. Dawkins. It was not as challenging as "Selfish gene". But I guess its complexity is pretty relevant to the level of articulation many have. However, it was a great read and made me think more about the topic.
the first for finally addressing questions that have long been in my mind (but receive no echo in society as i've known it), the second for the willful repression of information and large-scale institutionalized dumb-down that is the public school system i grew up in.
it makes me want to cry to think that i didn't learn about evolution until i already had a master's degree.
i am learning now, though, largely through dawkins, stephen j.
still angry that whatever my daughter learns about evolution, she'll have to learn from me, a social scientist and by no means an authority.
یکی از کارهای فوق العاده استاد داوکینز که خواندنش به همه توصیه میشه.
عنوان اثر کاملا خود-توضیح دهنده ست و به بررسی تکامل و شواهدی که نشان می دهد این دنیا بدون طراح خلق شده و در حقیقت موجودات پیچیده بیولوژیک در واقع با تکامل به این مرحله رسیده اند و خالقی در خلق آنها نقشی نداشته است، می پردازد.
از نکته های خوب این اثر میتوان به زبان به کار رفته در آن اشاره کرد.
داوکینز علاوه بر استادی در زمینه تخصصی خود، توانایی لازم برای انتقال دانش خود به افراد دیگر در سطح های مختلف دانش را نیز دارد.
یک حقیقت علمی ست.
Well, I didn’t quite read it; rather, I listened to Dawkins and his wife, Lalla Ward, narrate the book, as I took long walks in the forest near my house.
As a result, his books can actually be a bit dense and exhausting; but the patient reader is amply rewarded with a deepened understanding.The main reason that this book wasn’t as enjoyable as his first was that Dawkins spends an awful lot of time dealing with contemporary controversies.
بهر حال این کتاب رو یکی از دوستان در رد آفرینش بهم معرفی کرد و حقیقتا تسلط نویسنده بر روی مباحث فرگشت باعث شده تا به زبان ساده مفاهیم علمی به خواننده های عادی منتقل بشن.در این کتاب با مفاهیم علمی بسیار زیادی آشنا شدم و از خوندنش بسیار لذت بردم و به همه ی دوستان هم توصیه میکنم حتما بخوننش، ولی برای من به هیچ عنوان دلیلی برای رد آفرینش نبود و نباید یادمون بره که آقای داوکینز در اشاراتی که در کتابش به سخنان مذهبیون داشته بسیاریش ربطی به اسلام و قرآن نداشت، حداقل بنظر من!در نهایت در اینترنت جستجو کردم ببینم از مذهبیون ما کسی این کتابو خونده و نظر داده که به لینک های زیر رسیدم:http://eh26.ir/post/65/%D8%A2%D9%81%D...http://eh26.ir/post/64/%D8%B3%D8%A7%D...http://eh26.ir/post/66/%D9%82%D8%B1%D...از اونجا که مطمئن نیستم این لینک ها تا چند وقت دیگه در دسترس باشن پس قسمتی از مطالب یکی از لینک ها رو اینجا هم نقل میکنم:"مسئله خلقت در قرآن نیز آیات بسیاری را به خود اختصاص داده است.
This book was okay, but since I already am convinced evolution occurs by natural selection, I felt like he was not preaching to the choir, but trying to convince the choir.
He comes up with many different arguments/theories for how evolution/natural selection could occur, many of which are interesting, but I would just rather read a science book rather than a philosophical book on evolution.
For instance, I recommend The Beak of the Finch by Jonathan Weiner, which shows how scientists study evolution and natural selection in action.
Dawkins wrote the book to counter creationist thinking, but for a firm believer in Darwinian evolution, his lengthy arguments were unnecessary.
Below are some items that caught my attention.Darwin’s concept of gradual evolution overturned the ideas of the catastrophists, who believed the earth and its creatures were formed by sudden drastic changes.
I enjoyed Dawkins explanation of the development of the eye in support of gradualism.
Post-Darwin, like the watch, some held that the eye was so complex as to defy gradual evolution.
Dawkins pondering of how bats experience this sense I found fascinating.
وفي نظر دوكنز الداروينية هي "النظرية الوحيدة المعروفة القادرة من حيث المبدأ على تفسير أوجه معينة من الحياة " ويقول "أنا أتنبأ لو حدث قط أن اكتشف شكل للحياة في جزء آخر من الكون، فمهما كان شكل الحياة هذا غير مألوف وغريب وعجيب في تفاصيله، إلا أنه سيتبين أنه يشبه الحياة على الأرض من وجه رئيسي واحد: أنه قد تطور بنوع من الانتخاب الطبيعي الدارويني".
والسبب؟ السبب يبسطه دوكنز مقعداً في الفصل الأخير، ولكن لب هذا السبب أن الداروينية تفترض في مبدأها أبسط الميكانيزمات، والذي لا يعتمد على أي شيء من خارجه، إنه شيء في بساطته كقانون الجاذبية: تنتقي الطبيعة الأكثر كفاءة كما تجذب الأرض اليها الأجسام اعتماداً على كتلها النوعية.
Dawkins is one of my top picks for the most articulate, engaging and proficient scientists I've read to date.
The Blind Watchmaker turned out to be a very prolific piece.
I was baffled by his logical analogies, most excellent examples and extremely engaging vernacular.
In this work, one learns much about the evolutionary adaptations of numerous species, of which the sonar technology of baths, dolphins and other mammals seemed most shocking.His reasoning of what constitutes miracles, probability theory and reasoning behind the drawback of the Lamark's theory of acquired characteristics is exceptionally enticing.
The book should be a required high-school reading.
A very, very high recommendation.
At the time, this was a tough book for me to read. Considering the way I was raised - in a heavily religious atmosphere - it was hard for me to accept the theory of evolution. However, Dawkins very clearly lays out the theory in a way that anyone can understand if they are willing to open their mind just a little and put in just a little effort. It might be hard to accept but its even harder to dispute. Reality is like that. I think everyone should be required to read this book.

چاپ کتابی از این اندیشمند که یکی از معروف‌ترین آتئیست‌های حال حاضر جهان می‌باشد در ایران علاوه بر اینکه مایه شگفتی است حرکتی بسیار قابل ستایش است، چرا که علاوه بر اینکه جوانان جویای علم را با زبانی ساده و قابل فهم با نظریات روز علم زیست‌شناسی آشنا می‌سازد، فرصتی را نیز فراهم می‌کند تا به دلایل این نویسنده برای رد آفرینش انسان و طبیعت آشنا شده و در مورد آن به تفکر پردازخته و حتی با پیشرفت نظری، امکان نقد و بحث و گفتگو درباره آن‌ها فراهم آمده و این دلایل به چالش کشیده شوند.مطالب ذکر شده در کتاب از بسیاری جهات برای فهم طبیعت، کلیدی بوده و بینشی عمیق و شگفت‌انگیز در مورد حیات و جنبه‌های مختلف آن به انسان می‌دهد.
Quite a few of the science books & articles I've read that were half as old were terribly dated, but Dawkins is dealing with the theory itself, how genetic change & natural selection works over long time periods to build complex systems, instead of details which may have been superseded as technology runs on.
Then I read this article:https://thelogicofscience.com/2017/08...IOW, I was certain in my ignorance & now that I know more, I'm unsure & somewhat bewildered - a good thing from a scientific point of view, but the lack weakened his arguments a bit for me simply because I spent too much time wondering about it.
For the past ten million years Nature has been busily inventing ways to make the male attractive to the female, but the whole business of courtship, from the marine annelids up to man, still lumbers heavily along, like a complicated musical comedy.
In this volume you can learn about cricket, cotton, costume designing, crocodiles, crown jewels, and Coleridge, but none of this subject is so interesting as the Courtship of animals, which recounts the sorrowful lengths to which all males must go to arouse the interest of a lady.” I don't know why this essay suddenly occurred to me but I confess it is Quite an amusing story to read.
This book is a more nail in the coffin of creationism.It develops the darvinian theory of evolution,
Richard Dawkins has a breathtaking gift for expressive, catchy writing.
His handling of illustration and narrative flow like silk.
Take for example his extraordinary leap on p.134, para 1, where self-replicating RNA will almost magically come into being - 'all so utterly simple and automatic'.
There it is by fiat - Dawkins wishes and so it must be!
This is no cogent defence of evolution of an extraordinarily complex structure, just a mystical will-of-the-wisp-like weaving of concepts to meet his desired end.
Dawkins is a magician with words, though not as self critical and cautious as he ought to be with scientific argument.
The Blind Watchmaker is probably one of the best introductory books on evolution.Dawkins takes his time, explaining step by step how Darwinian evolution works.Dawkins explains at great length, how species that look like a "complex design" evolve with accumulating small changes via natural selection, why natural selection is "blind"; ie.
I was thinking: 'how non-sense this is that the nature designed them, it is not possible, the nature is not a smart thing to do that'.
But, I was all wrong.Because, the nature doesn't have to be smart to design such creatures.
Small and gradual steps makes them climb mount improbable of highly designed looking creatures.I recommend this book to anyone who would have an open mind about how the living creatures emerged by natural laws only.
Therefore, as the book shows, there is no design, only emergence.
Only you need to have an open mind, that's it.
I have only ever read one other Dawkins book before, The God Delusion, and really didn't like the style or attitude of the writing, so was not completely looking forward to this one.The primary aim of the book is to look at all the evidence and theories that make up the Darwinian theory of evolution and natural selection.
He considers all the evidence from real life examples, in particular the eye, and buy using a computer program that he wrote, demonstrates how new variants of a species can evolve with very simple initial amendments.
على عكس الشائع عن دوكنز في الأوساط الإسلامية أنه غير منطقي و أطروحاته ربما ترقى إلى السخافة, لم أجده كذلك في المجمل.
و عن أن هذا التطور قادر بذاته بلا توجيه من أحد (إله) على صنع كل ما يبدو في الكون على أنه تركيب زكي و تنظيم معقد مثل العين البشرية أو آلية الرؤية عند الخفاش.لا يتحدث الكتاب بشكل مباشر عن الإلحاد و لكن ظلال الموضوع لا تخلو منه.ضرب الأمثلة الكثيرة و الاستطراد في الشرح كثيرا و طويلا و الخروج من الموضوع الأساسي لتبيان و توضيح مواضيع فرعية سمات تتكرر كثيرا في الكتاب..
I would like to quote a paragraph from the book:“A physicist certainly doesn’t need Darwinism in order to do physics.
He might think that biology is a trivial subject compared with physics.
This book provides you with simplified biochemistry, biology, math, physics, and reasoning so that you can easily conceive why Darwinism is the most reasonable answer to world's complexity.I would like to quote another part:“In Darwin’s view, the whole point of the theory of evolution by natural selection was that it provided a non-miraculous account of the existence of complex adaptations.
For what it is worth, it is also the whole point of this book.
I enjoyed this book very much, despite the difficulty of reading the very small typeface.
Dawkins' style is almost folksy, and not at all the arrogant, condescending style that some reviewers mention.
The first chapter, about echolocation in bats, is fascinating.
I also enjoyed reading about the different philosophies involved in taxonomy, the classification of species.
Some reviewers mention that Dawkins' explanations are "old hat", and that the computer simulations are primitive; but they do need to keep in mind that the book is already 25 years old!
While I do appreciate the arguments Dawkins puts forward against saltationists and punctuationalists, I found them to be repetitive and boring after a while.
When Charles Darwin first explained the matter, many people either wouldn't or couldn't grasp it.- This book is a rebuttal to William Paley's book (Which I have not read yet) called "natural theology".
According to Paley a human organ like an eye is much more complex than a watch, therefore like the watch which requires a watchmaker, the eye requires a designer, or does it?- According to Dawkins, the only watchmaker in nature is the blind forces of physics.
What a mind-boggling theory of such astonishing scope and implications, it is almost inconceivable that a single human being could have given us the theory of evolution.I think I studied it in class 9 and read it as another scientific theory.
And I think he is kinder than me to bullies n bullshitters :) In this book too, some chapters are a joy to read and some concepts related to evolution are explained very well.
This was more focused on showing how there is no divine intervention in evolution but unfortunately in some chapters it got repetitive and with excessive jargon.
This is the third book by Richard Dawkins I read and another winner.
He has the talent to break down complex concepts in understandable bits and often uses enlightening analogies to clarify his reasoning.One of the things I especially liked about this book is that it not only provides an explanation and insight about the inner working of Darwinian evolutionary theory, it also shows why, where and how rival or opposing theories are wrong.
Dawkins does this in a most respectful way.
His goal is to show that it's possible to explain the rise of complexity from a simple world and he spectacularly succeeds.However, I'm likely not the intended audience of this book.
I had no idea what Mutationism was before he explained it but it sounded dumb within the first few sentences; he didn't need to spend as many pages dismissing it as he did.
The rest of the chapter tried to defend darwinism from a media I had never paid attention to in the first place.The last third of the book is worth reading because it contains a few insights.
