https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/543137.One_of_Ours
Well respected parents who own a good Nebraska farm that will someday belong to Claude, and he has a new wife.
I won't say what happens, but Willa Cather is a master at bringing her characters to life, and giving the reader the essence of what it was like living on the Nebraska prairie in the early 20th century.
The character Claude was inspired by her cousin G.P. Cather, who was born and raised on the farm next to Willas family.
Like Claude, G.P. also served in WWI.Definitely one of Willa Cather's finest achievements.
"Ruin and new birth; the shudder of ugly things in the past, the trembling image of beautiful ones on the horizon; finding and losing; that was life, he saw."  A mother's love for a distressed son. A son's love for his emotionally-abused and pious mother. A young man pondering life and what it has to offer. A war that has to be fought. A protagonist who feels the pull of duty to a war that summons American lives. If this is not a book about the inner turmoils of war and one's psychological batt
If this is not a book about the inner turmoils of war and one's psychological battle with life, I don't know what is.The "trembling image of beautiful ones on the horizon," this is what haunts Claude.
With male antipathy elucidated, this novel placed me within Claude's centermost thoughts, as he questioned what he deemed his lack of contribution to life, and his timidity as it related to his parents:
When we consider the brave men and women who go off to war, we consider the many factors that contribute to their decisions; it takes determination, drive, and perhaps some psychological factor that sets these individuals apart from the rest of us - this is what Cather seems to be exploring in this Pulitzer-prize-winning novel.
And it was a book for class????This book is set during World War I, but the first half of this book talks about the main character's life at home and how he feels discontent with working on the farm and discontent with the marriage he fell into and discontent with living a life that was meaningless.
I thought his inner struggle was so compelling and even somewhat relatable, and I adored his personality as well.The latter half of this book is when he is deployed to France, a section I felt was a bit dryer because the descriptions grew a lot more geographical and clinical descriptions of machinery and war and I wish it had stayed as character-based.
Leave it to Willa Cather to write the most peaceful book about war I have ever read.
Cather's description of the destruction caused by war and America's participation in global economy is fascinating, and I was surprised to find a perspective that I think of as common in post-Vietnam writing in a book published before the Great Depression.One of the characteristics I love most about Cather as a writer is her ability to give her characters positions or traits that she obviously disagrees with, and still be compassionate towards them.
It makes me so uncomfortable to read a story where the author is mean and petty to the characters.
I didn't enjoy this book as much as My Ántonia and O Pioneers!. Willa Cather's writing about farm life, etc. is beautifully done but this story was very slow and somewhat boring to me. I'll definitely read more by her but for me, this book wasn't her best. 😕
He knows and loves a wonderful cast of characters in his hometown but he can’t seem to shake the nagging feeling that there’s more, somewhere out there, waiting for him.To say that Willa Cather is a master of characterization seems to sell her short, somehow.
Gradually, One of Ours brings World War I to the Nebraskan heartland and Cather tenderly takes the reader on a journey through the highs and lows felt by a young man who's already experiencing what are likely to be his life's greatest glories.
The second half of the novel, which takes place in France during WWI, does not ring as true and loses its grip on the characters somewhat.
Having recently emerged from WWI, I think the world was anxious to look at the war as something worthwhile and the men who died there (and those who came home in pieces) as having been enhanced by the experience.
This novel might be more of a case of how we “want” to see things than a case of how they actually were.I did enjoy this story, found it particularly appealing as a coming of age tale in the portions that take place before the war.
Most of this novel is about the dissatisfied meanderings of the main character, who thinks his life is useless and suspects/distrusts almost everyone he meets, assuming that they are out to embarrass or get the better of him in some way.
I was inspired to read this because of an epigraph in a Lawrence Block novel: "Even the wicked get worse than they deserve." The quote comes from a scene on a troop ship en route to France, the soldiers stricken with influenza, dysentery, and God knows what.
Who's the GREAT American writer ? Not Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Wharton, Faulkner. Here she is : Willa Cather.
Y ese fue el momento exacto en el que mi corazón se fue encogiendo, al ver en el testimonio del protagonista, una glorificación y una apología de la guerra (creo que mis lecturas previas sobre el conflicto, me han anestesiado completamente ante cualquier atisbo de propaganda bélica).Menos mal que una intervención de la madre del protagonista al final de la novela (cuando todo se ha cumplido), me ayudó a comprender el propósito de Willa al escribir su historia, al crear el personaje de Claude; en cierto modo, eso me permitió firmar la paz con 'Uno de los nuestros': "Murió con la convicción de que su país era mejor de lo que es en realidad; que Francia era mejor país que ningún otro.
I loved the beginning of this book, then felt sort of bogged down in the middle, but was again very engaged at the end.
I almost gave this book 3 stars because of the middle, but the parts of it that were beautiful were so beautiful that I think it deserves 4.
One of my favorite passages was "Most of the boys who fell in this war were unknown, even to themselves.
I think my issue with the middle of the book may have been more related to the fact that I'm just not that interested in war stories in general than to any fault of the writing itself.
He volunteers when World War I breaks out, and finds what he is looking for overseas.
I believe the book has been criticized for its third-hand scenes of war, but I found nothing particularly jarring or awkward about them as a reader; indeed, I was impressed with Cather’s ability to write so easily about this very male world.
In all it’s a good book, perhaps a bit dated now and so not apt to change the reader’s life; but this very American tale of redemption and risk, of a man making his own way in a stifling world, is enhanced by Cather’s strong, romantic prose.
I have always enjoyed stories about how people lived years ago, and this one certainly didn't disapp
I love Cather so much. Her writing is so pure and lyrical and really takes to the heart of wherever she is writing about; you feel what the people in the story are feeling and what they are seeing etc. This book is no exception. So well written, so heartbreaking on so many levels; I totally see how this won the Pulitzer - it is so worthy of that prize. A MUST read for any Cather fan.
Beautifully descriptive writing that brings an emotional, almost spiritual, appreciation of nature, family, friends, and particularly of the search for purpose in life that is meaningful.
I particularly liked the character of the cook and housekeeper Mahailey who was devoted to the Wheeler family and in particular to Claude.
World War I has been escalating and Claude and his mother followed the war news and its progression into previously peaceful France; Claude comes to believe that the war is his opportunity, a cause worth living for, a greater purpose that is meaningful.
Y parecerá increíble, pero me interesaba más la aburrida vida del protagonista en su granja que su odisea en la Primera Guerra Mundial.
Entiendo al final lo que quiere conseguir la autora, y en ese final todo tiene sentido, pero se sentía a veces un poco inconexo todo, como si Willa Cather fuera improvisando la historia por momentos.De todas formas, no se corta a la hora de narrar y describir la crudeza, tanto de la vida en el campo, como de la guerra.
Los personajes puede que idealicen su situación por cómo son o cómo piensan, pero la autora deja claro que no es una situación ideal.
The Nebraska half of the novel is good. I just couldn't get behind what Cather had to say about the experience of war once Claude goes to France. I have no doubt that many, many wonderful people find a home and a meaningful life in the military. I just struggle with the message that World War I trench combat made anyone's life whole. I've never been a soldier and I've never been in a war, but I've read the stories of many talented writers who've lived that experience and this story didn't ring true.
Worthy of the Pulitzer. Wonderful writing that brings the reader to Nebraska and then France during WWI. A sad and touching coming of age story.
Some ninety years later it pales in comparison to some of the other WW1 novels like the Three Soldiers, All Quiet on the Western Front, A Farewell to Arms or to the many famous Memoirs and Poems about the Great War. Cather is a great writer but this particular novel did not have a strong anti-war message or depict the horrors of trench warfare in more than a cursory manner.I would point out however that Mrs. Wheeler, the mother back in Nebraska, is portrayed convincingly and her stoic feelings about her son’s involvement in the War seemed authentic.
Interestingly Cather did not view her work as a war novel.
In other words, Cather is just as concerned with subjective consciousness as her modernist contemporaries, but instead of tackling this concern extravagantly (a la Faulkner in _The Sound and the Fury_ or _Absalom, Absalom!_), she uses a much more subtle impressionism to hint at the turmoil inside Claude Wheeler and the interaction of his past with his present circumstances in the latter half of the novel.
2.5* Unfortunately while this is Willa Cather’s pulitzer prize winning novel, it is the first of her’s I have read and it will not be making me reach for another anytime soon. The first half of this book set in Nebraska was much stronger than second part in the midst of WW1, which was not very convincingly portrayed. I think this is one of the most sedate depiction's of WW1 I have read until the last 10 pages.
1923 winner of the Pulitzer Prize for fiction.[return][return]I ve lived in Nebraska and know well the rolling landscape, the hard-working but easy-going people who farm and ranch the land there.
When the United States enters the war, Claude enlists and finds his place in the world.[return][return]Cather describes the effect of the war on France and its people.
Clearly she was more interested in what happened to the people, both French and the Allied soldiers, than she was in the details of the fighting itself.[return][return]The last pages are heart-rendering; the impact is enormous.
Apparently, Willa Cather did not want this book to  “be classed as a war story,” and after reading it, that makes a lot of sense to me.
No All Quiet on the Western Front for Cather; it’s One of Ours, and I read the “Ours” as we good old US of A-ers and the “One” as our hero, Claude Wheeler, and the book being about whatever young men can do to find purpose in the early 20th-century world.
Maybe the post-war world wanted their literary WWI down and dirtier?
The story follows Claude Wheeler, a thoughtful yet inexplicably restless son of a Nebraska farmer, through his early adulthood and into the trenches of World War One. The book is unique among Cather’s works as it was considered by her contemporaries as a “war novel”.
The book begins with the same gentle and eloquent descriptions of the land and the people of the plains as are present in all Cather works, yet, for some reason it does not reach the amazing magnificence of My Antonia or Song of the Lark.
However, as much as I love all of Cather’s works, the plot is too formula.
I love Cather’s truly decent and positive personalities and the amazing visual portraits of landscape.
I've read My Antonia, O Pioneers, and Neighbor Rosicky. I mistakenly thought that what I loved so much about Cather are her prairie/pioneer/struggling to make a living off the earth/work ethic themes. I've long avoided reading One of Ours, because I feared the WWI setting would lull me to sleep. The truth is, Willa Cather could write banking manuals and make me fall in love with the characters. She's just a truly great writer. I so enjoyed this story. I love stories, and Willa Cather is one of few truly great story tellers.
Amazing to discover a Cather work written in 1922 and recipient of the Pulitzer Prize in 1923 - over 90 years ago - and have it thoroughly embrace you as though it were recently written. I was totally drawn in. Felt it was as much the story of a young man's growing up and early adult years in Nebraska, as it was a tale of the Great War, World War I. Loved it. Recommend.
The war is simply just another tool that the author uses to move her character through life experiences that are just as real today as they were when this book was written in 1922.Other points of merit that flood my thoughts include the writing skills of Willa Cather.
Life in rural America, where little changes with time, is written patiently; life in transit to an imagined destiny is compressed into a period of days; and the critical scenes of war require only minutes to change lives.Least and foremost, One of our Ours formed a sort of harmony in my mind that brought back the relative melody of two books with more overt plots.
And here, I thought the book became tedious and maybe it's simply because I hate war so much, although the descriptions were hardly violent by today's standards.
It's more likely because there are few things I love reading about more than farming, nature, animals, etc., and I wanted Claude to somehow miraculously find himself in Nebraska, not on the battlefields of France.
At any rate, it became kind of laborious reading and I felt a little disappointed.
Claude's mother could have been any mother today whose son (or daughter these days) is away at war.
By modern standards, Cather commits almost every storytelling gaff.
Even by 1922 standards, she should have compressed the first half of her story into half the space.The story really begins when the Great War intrudes on the life of rural America.
His life--and the story--begins as he sails past the Statue of Liberty bound for the battlefields of France.Cather’s thorough research and love of her characters shows, but her sentimental point of view is perhaps so foreign that modern readers may not understand what she says.
Wilder is a better story teller and better describer of how life was lived: Cather more literary.
I love Willa Cather, and each new book or story I read of hers just solidifies that opinion.
I truly felt as though I'd watched him mature and become a man."...I never knew there was anything worth living for, till this war came on.
Before that, the world seemed like a business proposition." "...
No battlefield or shattered country he had seen was as ugly as this world would be if men like his brother Bayliss controlled it altogether.
As long as that was true, and now he knew it was true...he had no quarrel with Destiny."Wonderful book!
