https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/472373.Creed_or_Chaos_
Excellent. This is Sayers' best starting point for a new reader. The author views life in the context of the Incarnation, and stresses the need to make Christian dogma meaningful in ordinary life. In the essay “Creed or Chaos,” she points to the fatal error of allowing people to “suppose that Christianity is only a mode of feeling . . . [it is] hopeless to offer Christianity as a vague, idealistic aspiration: it is a hard, tough, exacting, and complex doctrine steeped in drastic and uncompromising realism.”
She was an unofficial member of the Inklings and while she never met C.S. Lewis face to face, she was a frequent correspondent with that inveterate letter writer.I was a little underwhelmed with Creed or Chaos?
Or if you are going to worship just for the sake of worship, there is a difficulty in arousing any sort of enthusiasm for the worship of nothing in particular.The problem is that creeds and dogma seem so boring, but when she wrote plays based on Christian dogma, she was praised by the college students of her time for her powers of invention by adding things that were so interesting and dramatic.
Currently re-reading the book.
Brilliant read!
Favorite quote which sums up the book: "The thing I'm here to say to you is this: that it is worse than useless for Christians to talk about the importance of Christian morality, unless they are prepared to take their stand upon the fundamentals of Christian theology.
It is a lie to say that dogma does not matter; it matters enormously.
It is fatal to let people suppose the Christianity is only a mode of feeling; it is vitally necessary to insist that it is first and foremost a rational explanation of the universe." The chapter "Why Work?" was also helpful in my continued personal revamping my understanding of vocation.
I found the book very accessible and read it in two sittings.
Amazing and extremely relevant book of theology.
Very easy to read and understand--possibly the least intimidating theology book I've ever encountered.
A lot of the material overlaps with concepts discussed in "The Mind of the Maker" and "The Man Born to Be King", which can get repetitive, but also adds a nice level of coherence between her theological works.
I don't agree with all her points in the discussion of sacramental work, and several of the same points are repeated in multiple essays, but otherwise it's a nearly flawless defense of orthodox Christianity in a hostile world.
Some of the finest of Dorothy L. Sayers non-fiction essays are collected in "Creed or Chaos". They are about many different issues but maybe the central theme is something like the Church in relation to the world, as it is the Church who have the Creed, and without it all goes to chaos. Three of the ones I enjoyed the best was "Creed and Chaos", "Why Work?" and "The Other Six Deady Sins". As a good start to Dorothy L. Sayer as a theologican and a cultural critic, look no further.
This a series of lectures or articles by Sayers. The main article is an argument for the return to dogmatic confessionalism. She saw in the early 20th century a swing toward laissez faire statements of belief which she predicts will end in chaos in the church. There are other essays including "Why Work?" a defense of the doctrine of vocation and "The Other Six Deadly Sins" a somewhat comical view of the perception that "lust" is the only thing the church preaches against.
True believers make up His church, she says.Again I loved the chapter on work and I will peruse it again.
She writes that work "should be looked upon, not as a necessary drudgery to be undergone for the purpose of making money, but as a way of life in which the nature of man should find his proper exercise and delight and so fulfill itself to the glory of God."Sentences tend to influence me more that entire books.
This book is full of influential sentences.===========The sixth Deadly Sin is named by the Church Acedia or Sloth.
Of an ignorant but common attitude toward Jesus that was a problem even five generations ago, she writes, "We have very efficiently pared the claws of the Lion of Judah, certified Him 'meek and mild,' and recommended Him as a fitting household pet for pale curates and pious old ladies." Of the apostles' sudden boldness after the Resurrection, she notes, "They had seen the strong hands of God twist the crown of thorns into a crown of glory, and in hands as strong as that they knew themselves safe." Exactly!Sayers' thoughts on how Christian doctrine suggests that we should approach work as a creative activity rather than a wage-earning necessity are still piquant, and her criticisms of the consumerist mindset still hit home.
In this collection of essays Dorothy Sayers discusses the need of sound, objective doctrine over a more subjective “all you need is sincerity” approach to Christianity. I have previously admired Dorothy L. Sayers as a translator of The Divine Comedy and author of the Lord Peter Wimsey detective series, and I must say she is equally engaging as a theologian/philosopher.
Dorothy Sayers was a mystery writer who also wrote books on theology.
2. I am interested in books that discuss the fundamentals of the Christian faith.
Although Sayers wrote in the years after WWII, apostocies creeping into the church was as real then as they are now and were in the early church.
In the early Chistian chruch they were called Nestorianism, Arianism, the Eutyches heresy, etc.
I very much enjoyed the first half of the book and her discussion on this issue.
However the second half of the seemed totally unrelated to the first and dealt more with more social issues, which is why I gave it three star.
Creed, doctrine and dogma are not words associated today with reasonable people.
“Creed or Chaos” shows that association is itself irrational and that ignoring creed or perverting it leads to ruin.This is not abstruse theology.
The author uses basic ideas in three widely accepted Christian creeds, the Apostolic, Nicene and Athanasian and discusses how our beliefs about the nature of God, Christ, and man have consequences for our lives and society.
She includes a good chapter showing how our view of the nature of work affects.
The book closes with a chapter on the seven deadly sins and shows how we dress them up to be respectable.
I admire Dorothy Sayers and I always learn a great deal from her. This short and easy to read book is fantastic. I especially recommend chapters 1-4 and ch. 5 (next time I revisit this book, I will skip chapters 5 and 7).Note: Sayers was an Anglican, so I do not agree with all her theology.
What can be said about this that has not already been said? Dorothy Sayers is a brilliant apologist with clear diction and a standpoint that is firmly rooted in reality, not in dusty clouds and miasmas. Definitely worth a read--and perhaps several.
Some of the "big issues" of Sayers' early post-war era are things of the past by now, but with a smidgen of mental flexibility they can be transposed to current situations. The real, solid elements of orthodoxy discussed here, both the difficulties and the solutions, are timeless.
In her clear and unabashed way Sayers says many things that the church today needs to hear and act on. A thorough understanding of the ideas and the consequences of those ideas which are embraced in post modern western culture and the church living within that culture.
Phenomenal. A few minor quibbles re: the nature and cause of evil. But the comments on practical applications of theology and work as a calling were fantastic. Highly recommended.
I read this for my Classics Club challenge and it was great. See my full review here: https://salmonandsouvlaki.com/2016/03...
Good book. Raises some very interesting issues about mediocrity and Christianity that are still relevant today.
Brilliant little essay/lecture collection. The titular essay is particularly good, but one could almost say that each essay is better than the one that came before.
Powerful writing; as much so today as it was 75 years ago. The title essay alone is worth the price of he book and the time spent reading it.
First Edition. Read for a course at Baylor University entitled: Oxford Christians, taught by Dr. James Barcus.
Very short, easy to read.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who thinks theology isn't "practical." I will definitely be reading this book again!
1949 version
