https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6567284-night-embrace
I just got old and distracting from the plot and Kenyon's phenomenal storytelling.Talon's backstory was very interesting, and I wanted to read more about that than him and Sunshine shagging.
But I do have to say, they were very much kindred souls, and I am very glad they found their happy ending together.The best aspects of this book were the secondary characters and the intricate world that Sherrilyn Kenyon has created with her Dark Hunter books.
I wanted to learn more about this bad boy who lives in the shadows and is more or less disliked by most of the Dark Hunters.
All in all, not a bad book at all, but my least favorite in the Dark Hunter series.
Talon or Speirr of the Morrigantes (Hunter) & Sunshine Runningwolf (Human) Why Talon become a dark hunter: Tragic story and a combination of many things.At age 7 his parents died and he and his infant sister Caera were thrown out of their Druid tribe.Later his uncle was murdered and his aunt was raped and murdered, his wife Nynia died in childbirth and their son was stillborn.
And finally his clan killed his beloved little sister in front of him.
She made him crazy.Best of all, she made him burn.Sunshine had stumbled into his world and turned it upside down.She'd touched the emotions he'd buried long ago.
2,5 STARSI liked the previous two books in this series, but with this one I was n0t feeling it.The first 15% were like......and the next 5%......annnnnnnnd stayed for pretty much the rest of the book like this......nuff said...
Here we go,Dark Hunter Flashcard #2Name: TalonAge: 1,430 give or takeFormer Occupation: Celtic DruidSpecial D.H. power: Controlling the weather, telekinesis, healing, chatting with the dead…Reason why he became a D.H.: His clan betrayed and killed him and his younger sister.Best thing that came out of his mouth: (on priorities management) Coffee…Daimons…Coffee…Daimons… He finds his one true love when: He saves her life from a Daimon attack.He falls for her because: At first I was willing to bet that he just couldn’t resist her patchouli scent but as it turned out I was mistaken.Her Name: Sunshine Runningwolf Age: 29Occupation: ArtistBest thing that came out of her mouth: Talon.
I’m going to go get Talon clothes.
No sé si se debe a que la habilidad de la autora para crear emociones en el lector ha ido decayendo de una novela a otra, o si finalmente, uno se termina acostumbrando al estilo y argumento de los libros de esta serie, pero encuentro que esta entrega es bastante más plana que las anteriores.
La historia de amor que se presenta en El Abrazo de la Noche no me logró enganchar ni por el lado sentimental ni por el lado erótico (que es, por cierto, el fuerte de estas novelas), sin mencionar que la línea argumental es prácticamente igual a la del libro inmediatamente anterior, Placeres de la noche.
Greek Gods + Vampires + Daimons + Were-Wolves + Dark Hunters + Celtic Gods + Insignificant Humans blabbering = the whole book!
Concept: 2.5/5.0Execution: 2.5/5.0 Characters Bespoken: 3.0 /5.0Cover: 3.0/5.0Overall: 3.25/5.0As for Talon and Sunshine:I am amazed how Sherrilyn Kenyon does it?
How does she make you feel so home with Vampires, Daimons, Were-Wolves, all sorts of Gods, curses, boons, and more importantly it’s like in her world you feel more human!
The best point of the book - Captivating Dry Humour!
All the time I was like:P.S.: Next book is about Zarek!
The Darkest soul in all Hunters!
There is Talon, an ancient Celtic warrior chieftain who is now a Dark Hunter, and Sunshine, a hippy-chick artist who would forget her head if it wasn't attached.
She is hilarious.When they meet, Sunny saves Talon after he is run over by a float.
Sue me!I love how Talon finds Sunny charming despite her air-headed ways.
She is just what he needs.Aside from their story, we get a lot of glimpses into some of the other Dark Hunters and I can't wait to read their stories.
It just seemed like the author thought, “Let's see how many characters I can cram into one book,” and in the end, I thought many of them were very diluted, including Talon and Sunshine who were supposed to be the main characters.My next major issue with Night Embrace is an excess of supernatural powers.
I really like to have a good comprehension of the world that an author has created, so feeling like I frequently needed a Dark-Hunter encyclopedia to keep everything straight definitely detracted from my enjoyment of it.As for Talon and Sunshine, the hero and heroine of the book, I can't say that I ever became fully invested from an emotional standpoint in either their individual characters or their relationship.
Bu kadına ve yazdıklarına bayılıyorum!Kitabın iki noktası beni olumsuz etkileri altına almıştı en başta.
Talon ve Sunshine’ın sevişme kapasiteleri beni bile bayacak konuma getirmişti.
Çünlü Talon sürekli bu iki kadını karşılaştırma eğilimdeydi.
Ve o gerçek ortaya çıktığında… İlk hissettiğim rahatlama oldu.Böyle bir şey beklemesem de yazar müthiş bir atak yapmıştı gerçekten.
Kitap bir anda yön değiştirdi benim açımdan ve merakım katlana katlana okumaya devam ettim.Zengin bir kadroya sahip serimizde yan karakterleri ve geçmişte okuduğumuz kahramanlarımız görmek beni çok mutlu etti.
Bunun dışında devamı için kuduruyorum çünkü Zarek… Onunla ilgili öğrenmemiz gereken çok şey varmış gibi görünüyor ve o son ortaya çıkanlar içimi titretti.Başlamak için sabırsızlanıyorum!
4.5 starsA lot going on in this book.
We met so many new people and world building, I think a lot of time was spent on future books.
I still love Kieran.
Talon was a great guy, but the love was a little too insta for me.
She has such a wide range of voices and tones, I'm not sure why she used the same irritating voice for the female lead as the last book.
I'm giving the next book a try because I like a broken guy.
I pray the female lead isn't a whiny southern bell in tone.
Esta serie me tiene enganchadisima, y después de Fever de KMM no sé cómo me meto a leer una saga río con más novelas que las que tiene Carrie Bradshaw en su pisito de soltera.
Y el que haya tantos rubios venidos de la Antigua Grecia y alrededores, también.Dejando de lado eso, se trata de un libro bastante entretenido, en el que Kenyon da entrada a tal cantidad de personajes que estoy que vivo sin vivir en mi de la emoción de leer su correspondiente historia.
1st rereadSo much was revealed in this one. We also met so many important characters. This is an important one.
I loved the first 1/3 of this book, the heroine was really interesting, not the simpery virgin you usually see, but then the book rabbit-trailed off into a million different directions, not the most satisfying conclusion. I dunno. I am intrigued about a few of the other characters so I might try a few more books.Also the Alpha male thing is getting old to me, too many in a row, I've burnt out lol.
another enjoyable read in this series, even if it is only the second book....LOLwill continue to read the rest of the series
Acheron (head ancient demon-hunter) teaches Talon to kill his feelings and be calm and level-headed instead of consumed with rage and grief.All his feelings are dangerously reawakened upon meeting Sunshine Runningwolf in 2003....THINGS I LIKED: - Talon is so flippin' patient.
- Talon being a carnivorous he-man type and Sunshine being a strong vegetarian, hippie-dippy artist person with a house that is like a pink explosion.
I love romance novels with fat heroines and really want Kenyon to write this book about chubby little Bride for me!
(hide spoiler)] - Sunshine refusing to allow Talon back into her bed until he tells her some pertinent details about himself.
(hide spoiler)] - Talon having a little showdown with Sunshine's putz ex-husband.
3 1/2 "Soulmate" Stars!
I didn't read the previous books in the series, so I'm definitely at fault for feeling a little behind and lost but holy guacamole.
Even with the massive amount of characters and story lines (the writing gets a little loose at times), I felt the need to hang on for the ride.
Our leads have the whole soulmate thing going on, so no gradual falling in love but kind of instant, they also got ignored more than I liked in favor of the overall story arcs.
If you've read the series, discuss your feels and let me know if things improve/fall apart.Thanks to Lover of Romance for the rec!
“So there’s hope?”“Honey, there’s always hope.”  Night Embrace has a perfect and smoothly-built storyline. It is not only a pretty frame story for the romance, but a vibrant, thrilling action line with powerful and serious antagonists, a grandiose conspiracy, mystery, surprising twists, and important and significant secondary characters.Talon’s backstory is unique, well-developed, and heartbreaking. It is filled with love, revenge, fate, sorrow, intrigue, and myth mixing with history. It's onl
It is filled with love, revenge, fate, sorrow, intrigue, and myth mixing with history.
“I’m not a werewolf.”Starla looked really disappointed by the news.
You know, when you live in New Orleans, you expect to meet the undead at least once in a while.” She looked back to Sunshine.
Maybe if we lived over by Anne Rice we might catch sight of a vampire or werewolf.”
In Night Embrace Ms. Kenyon reveals intriguing crumbs of information about the Dark-Hunterverse, about its characters and myth, making you eager to know more about it.Originally posted on my blog on December 8, 2012.My favorite quotes.
3.5 starsI am rereading the series and decided to try this one again.
Happy I did.
It is certainly not going to be one of my favorites, but it was important to the overall plot.Prior comments:I made it 10%The heroine is such an annoying TSTL waste of air that she makes me want to commit a violent crime!
Preferably against her!The hero is a disgusting man slut.
So, so gross.
But crazy enough I could have handled him.
But her..no fucking way could I tolerate another second of her!Moving on to next one because it looks better.
Le iba a dar 4 pero al final pasaron tantas cosas que le voy a subir medio puntín así que 4'5 y ya estoy ENGANCHADÍSIMA a esta serie oficialmente.►Mi reseña en Mi Rinconín de Lectura◄
3.25/5'Night Embrace' didn't live up to the two previous Sherrilyn Kenyon books I had read, yet it was my pleasurable read.Hope the next one will be better.(There's a long way for me to reach Acheron book! I'm dying to read his story!!!)
UGH!Okay this book and possibly the series - is just meh.
Somehow I always end up annoyed while listening to them.
It took me a couple of days to finish this book because of any of those reasons mentioned above.Night Embrace is the second installment of the Dark-Hunter series.
I still think the way these guys become a dark hunter is interesting..
The girls in this series just end up annoying me somehow.
and that just irked me every time it was mentioned,Other than her, there's Talon and he was just okay.
No idea when I will dive into the next book..
Talon de los Morrigantes se conforma con su vida de cazador oscuro y con sus relaciones de una sola noche, sin ataduras puesto que su enemigo nunca le permitiría ser feliz.
Una noche Sunshine Runningwolf le salva de ser atropellado por una carroza, esta mujer bastante rarita parece amoldarse a lo que busca pero ahora Talon siente una conexión con ella y desearía más de una noche pero eso los pondría en peligro a los dos.El segundo volumen de la serie me ha parecido muy completo, ha tenido de todo un poco, la relación de Talon y Sunshine, varias tramas de otros cazadores oscuros como Valerio, Zarek, Vane, el imprescindible de Ash y el incomparable escudero Nick y toda la parafernalia fantástica de conflictos entre cazadores y daimons.
Man, oh man, did I try. I really, really did. I swear. But I'm just not ever going to finish this book.So here's what I don't like about these books. It took me awhile to put my finger on it, but here's the bottom line. Come close so I can whisper it in your ear. Ready? Sherrilyn Kenyon is a big dork. That's right, I said it. She's trying to write (presumbly edgy) books about big, bad warriors in leather but she can't get the dialogue right because she's a big dork! No one has used the term "not
Sherrilyn Kenyon is a big dork.
She's trying to write (presumbly edgy) books about big, bad warriors in leather but she can't get the dialogue right because she's a big dork!
Kenyon is a dork which makes all of the characters in her books dorks.
I like sharp dialogue, sue me.The other big problem is that she has no sense of subtlety when it comes to the attraction between the hero and heroine.
I liked reading about Talon's past.And okay, both Talon and Sunshine are pretty likeable, but they're just not compelling in the way I need them to be.So that's it.
Gah! I couldn't wait to finish this book.It was annoying, the characters had no chemistry and I skimmed 'till the end. One good thing, though, is that it made me curious about Zarek. So I'm not giving up on this series yet :D
2. he's undead and has no soul and he is under the service of the goddess Artemis to fight the Daimons.[image error]The romance was good, Sunshine was one quirky heroine and always forgot what she needed, and I'm glad she's not only sweet but also a tough girl who fights what she wants in life a perfect counterpart with the hero.Talon was amazing such a tortured man, and I love that Ash trust him to be cool and calm in order to fight his battles..I love that he live in the bayou, his pet alligator Beth was cute, huh?
I really like all the additional information we get throughout the story as well.
Talon and Sunshine are the central love story but Kenyon throws in all kinds of hilarious moments with so many unique characters that I am chomping at the bit to read their stories.
Her characters are all made of awesome and if you have read my other reviews of the past two books then you know that I am definitely a fangirl.
Still a great book and a great addition to an awesome series.
★★★★☆
Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro
ODIO A ARTEMISA CON TODO MI CORAZÓNA pesar de que Talon me gustó no me enamoró su personaje de hecho
