https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18667779-everything-leads-to-you
what kind of gay sorcery is this???this is a slow book. not at all action-packed. but somehow I was just so engayged that I barely noticed, and I just fell in love with the story and these characters. this is... so beautiful
Actual rating: 4.5This book was so beautiful
I LOVED THIS SO MUCH. THE FILM ASPECT AND THE LGBTQ ASPECT AND THE MYSTERY AND YAY
The story revolves around Ava, the granddaughter of a well-known celebrity who died and left her a letter telling her how much he wished he knew her and that he left her A LOT of money she can use at her sake.
I usually read a book in 1-2 days but this one took me 3 days.Emi and Ava are both nice girls and characters.
Also, if you really want romance, I have no recommendations since it’s my first lesbian book but I don’t think this is the one for you.
3.5 Stars "Because in the conversation beneath this one, what we're really saying is I am an imperfect person. Here are my failures. Do you want me anyway?”  Awww, this was so cute. Seriously a nice palate cleanser in between all the angst and fantasy I’ve been reading lately. This story revolves around Emi, who whole working set design in LA stumbles onto a mystery involving a classic film star and a troubled girl named Ava. There's this really fantastic element of movie magic, and it was great
This story revolves around Emi, who whole working set design in LA stumbles onto a mystery involving a classic film star and a troubled girl named Ava. There's this really fantastic element of movie magic, and it was great reading about all the behind the scenes work.First off, I am here for unapologetic lesbians.
There was very little talk involving what it was about Morgan that Emi liked so much, and I still don't have any understanding of Morgan's personality.Overall: This was cute, lighthearted fun, and I'm ready ALWAYS ready for more F/F stories.
THIS BOOK IS AMAZING. SO BEAUTIFUL AND THE FEELS AND IT'S ALL ABOUT MOVIES AND LOVE JUST AHHHH. Check out my video review here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5hTh4s...

4.5 stars.  We love films because they make us feel something. They speak to our desires, which are never small. They allow us to escape and to dream and to gaze into eyes that are impossibly beautiful and huge. They fill us with longing. Emi Price is an aspiring production designer in Los Angeles, which means that she works behind the scenes on crafting film sets, searching for the perfect armchairs and potted plants and window dressings to make a scene feel real, unique, and personal. When she
Everything Leads to You is a sort of blend between mystery, coming-of-age story, and f/f romance, and it was such a sweet, fun read.Elise described this as the “aesthetic lesbians” book, and I feel like that gives you a pretty good idea of what you’re in for here.
There’s something about Nina LaCour’s writing that’s just…..so simple and soft and fresh and maybe this is a weird analogy but reading her books always feels like curling up in a pile of still-warm and freshly washed sheets.In summary: Very aesthetic.
Emi and Ava come from two completely different walks of life and are drawn together by their love for film, but the presence of these secondary characters helped to ground their romance to reality.
With Emi and Ava, and their overblown enthusiasm for the scripts and sets in their lives, it is all too easy to fall into the fake, fleeting love story of Hollywood.
Instead, LaCour uses her secondary characters as barriers between reality and fantasy, ensuring that Emi and Ava's path to one another is not half as easy as their first meeting.
i loved this. like a lot. video review to come.
You know what was better than *gasp* realizing that girls can like other girls and it's a perfectly normal thing in the world? Reading about girls who like other girls. Young Mar was shooketh.
A really great book!
Just precious.
3.5 starsWith a mixture of Deb Caletti's quiet storytelling and Sarah Dessen's eye for detail, Nina LaCour writes the tale of Emi Price, an aspiring production designer who just graduated from high school.
The message they find starts Emi on a journey to uncover the secrets of this old star's life, and along the way she may find some truths of her own.Nina LaCour has a subtle and effective writing style.
She imbues Emi with a passion for production design, and from that LaCour crafts a simple, emotional story about film, love, and the intricacies of family.
Everything Leads to You is a book about movies and love.
I’m sure many will love it; it just didn’t do much for me.
There's a romance here between Emi and a girl she's just met, Ava. Ava is a likable character with a bit of mystery surrounding her past.
If I had been more interested in the movie-star plotline, this would've been fine.
That being said, I think it was a complete case of “it’s not me, it’s you” and I do want to recommend this to anyone who wants more books about gay girls and about the movies.
As a completely enchanting, elegant exploration of movie making in LA, it’s a story of hope, a young starlet and a designer, artistic passion and love that only grows when you give it a chance.The novel starts off with a mystery, where Emi and her best friend Chantelle stumble upon a movie star’s inheritance letter, which leads them to Ava, a budding starlet who just wants to know who her parents are.
There’s a mystery and magic surrounding Ava, she’s a muse who is a blood relative to fame, and Emi just wants to know her.Unlike other LGBT books, Everything Leads to You is not purely about Emi’s sexuality.
This girl is genuinely shocked when people don’t have the same condition and expectations as her, and that’s what made me loathe her.Ridiculously naive and wide-eyed, she jumps around like a goddamned fairy.None of her flaws are pointed out, although I could find plenty.
Ask any 18-year-old what they want to do with their lives and get back a terrified look and realize they are lost.Emi has everything figured out, zero real problems.That’s why Ava’s story seems so forced; it’s pitiful but in a tragic sense you see in Hollywood movies without substance.
Technically I would give this a 2 star rating but the Hollywood setting was just amazing I had to give it another star.I'm a huge, HUGE movie buff.
I look at everything; the direction, acting, lighting, sets, cinematography, the details.
So this book really hit home for me.
The fact that the protagonist is a budding set designer just fascinated me.
I loved the way the book describes the world she's in and her job so vividly.However, that is the only thing I liked about this book.
Most of this book was just too unbelievable.
But unfortunately I couldn't really love this book.
”There are no scenes in life, there are only minutes. And none are skipped over and they all lead to the next.” 2 stars TW:n/aread full review here*full review include favorite quotes and a spoiler section The Writing Okay, so, the writing wasn’t bad. It just wasn’t for me, personally. I found myself trudging through it because it felt so bland and was not expressive of Emi’s character at all, in my opinion. Like, there was absolutely nothing done for me to distinguish Emi’s character from any
Okay, so, the writing wasn’t bad.
I found myself trudging through it because it felt so bland and was not expressive of Emi’s character at all, in my opinion.
Okay, so this is my main problem with this book.
Oh, look, another problem I had with this is that none of the characters have a multi-dimensional personality, save for maybe Emi, but that’s debatable too.
And don’t get me wrong, I loved the sneak peek we got into the movie business, I just wish that wasn’t all the characters talked about.
But that’s all.~~~gay fluff?
gay fluff.
I enjoyed The Disenchantments and LOVED Hold Still, so I have really high hopes for this one. :D
[3.5]Nina Lacour has a way with words.
Incredible way with words!
I'm not a movie buff, but this book made me want to become one.
The passion she had for her job really came through and I loved the way she saw the world.
I feel like we just scratched the surface with the characters though.
I desperately wanted more development.
The romance also developed too quickly for my liking..
The book really came to life when the movie aspects were depicted and it was beautiful to read.
I can't wait to see what more Nina Lacour writes.
I really enjoyed all of the characters in this book, especially the mysterious Ava. These characters were flawed, yet seemed so real to me and I love reading about characters like that.
I appreciated that the main character was open about her sexual orientation and instead of this being a coming out story, Nina LaCour just made it a part of who Emi was.
Honestly, while reading this book, it almost felt like I was becoming friends with Ava, Charlotte, Emi, and Jamal.
I picked this book up expecting a sweet F/F romance, with a bit of mystery and lots of movie magic, but I got so much more.
This was a book about loss, and pain, and finding yourself.(view spoiler)[I like slow burn romance, but holy sh*t.
LaCour draws readers in with easy going, lovable characters and intricate story lines, but once she has you she will not let go until she has shattered your heart into a million pieces.
She will never be the kind of writer who has flat characters, or instant romances.
There would still be a lot of anti-queerness coming from other people, so this doesn’t add up.There was only one closeted queer girl in this book and I felt like she was presented as some sort of “villain”, because she claimed the other girl had tricked her.
Like I said, it’s not a bad book, I just didn’t love it.content and trigger warnings for: a lot of ableist language (such as crazy and insane), breaking and entering, homeless shelter, deceased parents, adoption, anti-queerness, overdose, drug use, underage drinking
Everything Leads to You was the last of my summer reads and I chose it over  We Are Okay , a story that sounds a lot sadder and darker – I'll save it for autumn!I finished Everything Leads to You a couple of weeks ago and I still remember how film aspect of the storyline made me feel. I adored it. I love the idea of being a set designer like Emi, our talented protagonist, and Nina LaCour tackles every little detail. She enables the reader to really understand and picture the work that goes into
Everything Leads to You was the last of my summer reads and I chose it over 
, a story that sounds a lot sadder and darker – I'll save it for autumn!I finished Everything Leads to You a couple of weeks ago and I still remember how film aspect of the storyline made me feel.
I love the idea of being a set designer like Emi, our talented protagonist, and Nina LaCour tackles every little detail.
She enables the reader to really understand and picture the work that goes into set design, why it's such an important part of making a film, and how fun it can be.
Still, those ruminations about how the accepted illusions of movies allows readers to engage with the story were deeply insightful.As Scott McCloud points out in Understanding Comics, art often works best by inviting the observer in.
I don't know if this was done on purpose, but LaCour did a fantastic job of both the explicit illustration through movie set design and the implicit illustration through Emi's story itself.
Emi's story tells profound truths about work and life and love and doing what is important for the people in your life.
The main character is supposed to be a production designer and the author can't even design her own settings.Speaking of characters I like how Emi isn't given any physical characteristics at all and about halfway into the book you find out she's partially black.
There is a very tasteful way to present a gay couple normally in a book without the reader giving a second thought but La Cour just did not make it happen.
It gives away WAY too much to the reader, aka the entire rest of the book.Why did I keep reading?
There's not much to the story where two people finding new locations as well as exploring them for their films and other stuffs and most of the time the characters go bonkers about who is whom or about messy relationships.
Moreover, it's not that it is first time that I'm reading about a Lesbian relationship, somehow the author couldn't project that relationship so flawlessly or with enough intensity.
It seems Ava is the main character whereas Emi is the one who is narrating her tale.
Emi and Ava meet when a famous celeb leaves a letter for her grad-daughter and it was Emi's job to find who that grad-daughter is.
Okay yes I am DNFing this at like 30% ..
I KNOW I KNOW I AM BLACK SHEEP WHEN IT COMES TO THIS.
I liked the writing I did.
I liked the brother.
And I love the LGBT aspect.
Emi likes girls and that's that which was refreshing to read!
But this book was just boring me!
I am sorry.
I read only like 80 pages and they were all whiny about an ex and break up.
No thanks.Sorry!
I REAAAALLY WANTED TO LIKE THIS :( It sucks this book has been on my tbr for over a year and ughhh *sighs*
And the main reason why I'm a bit disappointed is the fact that there are so few F/F YA books that every time I start one I hope it will be good enough to make up for this tragic shortage.
And that just goes to show, once again, that this is all me, because I don't watch films for a reason: I can't connect with them half as much as I do with books.Underwhelming, but enjoyable.
