https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/645864.Riceyman_Steps
Henry Earlforward, a shabby Clerkenwell bookseller,has retired from life to devote himself and his w
As a former bookstore owner, I loved this book when I first read it a dozen or more years ago.
There's not as much bookstore stuff as I remember, other than the fact that the owner deliberately kept his store partially in disarray in hopes that customers would think they were getting bargains.
Trouble is,  all the owner's books were bargains.
Yet he was ahead of his time in talking (although circumspectly) about sex.I prefer his Five Towns series of books, particularly The Old Wive's Tale, which I read in college.
Published in 1923, this richly layered novel is set in Clerkenwell.
The vividly realised central characters are second-hand bookshop proprietor, Henry Earlforward, Violet Arb, neighbouring shop owner, and their servant, the magnificent Elsie.Earlforward inherited the bookshop from his uncle, who died suddenly after giving Henry an excitable account of Clerkenwell's history.
But when the construction began all Clerkenwell trembled.
The earth opened in the most unexpected and undesirable places."Bennett sets up the idea that something as powerful and deep as the railway will shake his charcters' lives.
The evocation of Clerkenwell, its architecture, history, and the shop itself, induces feelings of claustrophobia.
Bennett's steps are "twenty in number, ...
divided by a half-landing into two series of ten", whereas the steps of Granville Place number (from the bottom) fifteen, with eleven more from the half-landing.
That it is the story of a bookseller is all you need to know about this book.
Add a live-in maid and you have the setting for characters whose relationships a developed and molded into a story of not some little interest.
Bennett, always good with detail, executes a simple story of love and death, perhaps profound, eminently readable.
What an engaging novel.
Bennett is a superb stylist and he's actually able to present three narrowed and stifled characters in a way that's satirical but never caricatured, and tragic but never bleak.
I think Bennett is at his best here, and shows hints of the kind of novelist he could have been had he been painting on a larger Dickensian canvas.
A terrific novel and the most sympathetic view of a miser (and the miserly woman who loves him) that i've ever seen.
Robert Powell reads from the 1923 novel by Arnold Bennett about the poignant struggles of everyday London life.Blurb - It is a year since the end of the First World War, and Londoners are struggling to return to normal life. But on Riceyman Steps a secondhand bookseller is already contemplating a significant change to his circumstances.A dark and eccentric tale
1923 book about a bookstore-owning miser in London. Can't quite remember how I lucked into reading this now-obscure book, it must have been one of those things stemming from my delving into that period through the door of Knopf's Blue Jade Library opened by Brian Bouldrey's essay.
3.5 is a more accurate rating for this book. I read it for uni in maybe 2012/2013 and wrote one of my essays on it. It was enjoyable, although I'm not sure I'd re-read it.
The novel, Riceyman Steps, though nowhere as successful as his best work Old Wives Tale, nonetheless deserves plaudits for ambition and its tight focus on three expertly-drawn characters.
Okay, fine, but did the characters really choose their fates (or were they merely burdened by their ill habits?) Bennett doesn’t really present any alternatives; are any people in his world capable of living salutary lifestyles?
Bennett seems convinced that these people are not particularly sinister and even deserving of sympathy; still, the book’s ultimate purpose is moralistic; it exhort us to examine our hearts to see if we possess the same myopic shortcomings.
His best known novel is "The Old Wives Tale," but I liked all the books.This one is a caution to everyone not to try too hard to accomodate a loved one who is controlled by an obsession.
The reader gets to watch what the miserly obsession does to the couple while rooting for life to work out well for Elsie.
This was the only one of Bennett's novels to come close to being a best seller, and it won a literary prize.
And I'd love for readers in 2017 to start reading Bennett again.
This book impressed me when I read it, but I am left only with some literary impressions, a decade or two later.
In this, the author seems to capture a major element of life.
This is, arguably, a more realistic treatment of the vice than is the cheerier George Eliot classic, Silas Marner.
I will have to re-read Riceyman Steps for a more coherent perspective, but I shall probably read Bennett's other major works, first.
Still, my lack of ability to write coherently about it now doesn't diminish my memory of it as a major classic, a brilliant work of no small achievement.
Een man die van middelbare leeftijd die nog gaat trouwen met een weduwe.
Dat kan natuurlijk nooit goed gaan.
Die man drijft nota bene een winkel in tweedehandsboeken.
Dat gaat dus ook niet goed.
Een interessante State of the Nation-novel, die toch nogal gedateerd aandoet.
Ondanks de interessante inleiding en voetnoten van Edward Mendelson, die zich in zijn lof voor het boek ("even goed als, nee: béter dan Joyce, Woolf, Lawrence!") zozeer overschreeuwt dat je van de weeromstuit de neiging krijgt vooral Bennetts vele tekortkomingen te gaan opsommen, zoals zijn wat oubollige stijl.Toch een aardig boek.
Een sympathieke auteur.

A rating from a fellow GoodReader reminded me that somewhere in the ancient past I read this book, as well as a few other Bennett titles.
I don't remember that much about the story, so probably shouldn't have rated it, but I do remember the intriguing title, the London setting and the fact that it involved a bookstore.
A used bookstore, I think.
I think what strikes me now is that once upon a time I had the time to read the lesser known works of an author not in fashion, and I feel a bit nostalgic for the reader that I was back then.
This review was deleted following Amazon's purchase of GoodReads. The review can still be viewed via LibraryThing, where my profile can be found here.I'm also in the process of building a database at Booklikes, where I can be found here.If you read/liked/clicked through to see this review here on GR, many thanks.
The title of this novel still cracks me up.A good "tail end Victorian" read. There's a lot of everything you'd expect in a Victorian novel: servants, masters, status negotiations, dramatic deaths, deaths from sorrow, awkward scenes where women are "discovered" with men that aren't their husbands, and by the end of the novel virtually every character is slowly wasting away from a horrible disease. It's a product of its time. It has some humor in it, which is odd, and fun.
This tale of a miser bookseller called Henry Earlforward set in 1920s Clerkenwell features very expensive contract vacuum cleaning costing £14 which Violet buys for her husband for a wedding present. That works out at over £500 equivalent in todays money!
It is such a joy reading old stuff. In The Riceyman Steps, Arnold Bennett probes the nasty little world of a miser. Beautiful descriptions of a book shop. So worth reading for both the lovely writing and trenchant insights. A sad little book but not depressing.
3.5 stars. I enjoyed this book, but can't quite give it 4 stars. A nice quick read, kept me in suspense. Interesting use of psychology in its early stages.
This is the second book whose main character is a miser that I have read this year, the first one being Silas Marner by George Eliot.
His miserly habits increasingly involve immense privation of food, heat and even light, which eventually lead to the tragic end.
He focuses on three main characters, Mr Earlforward, the secondhand bookseller, Violet Arb, who becomes his wife and the indomitable Elsie, the servant whose pragmatism and generous heart are eventually rewarded.
Although the subject is serious, Bennet keeps the tone light, with many an ironical twist.
The usual painstaking character work here, all with a slightly oppressive atmosphere, given the main subject matter (miserdom) - lightened by an 'honest* working-class goodness' character several cuts above the usual stereotype. Solid and enjoyable page-turner despite the grime, misery, and violence implied and occasionally bursting out.*well, kind of, at least in the ways that matter
Mi-a placut cartea, mi-a placut modul usor prin care autorul si--a exprimat ideile. O poveste cu caracter dramatic ce ascunde o morala de mare interes.
Wonderful author---great read
Riceyman Steps is Arnold Bennett's late masterpiece, on a miserly bookstore owner whose all-cosuming love for money eventually leads to tragedy for himself and his newly-wed wife.
Clarity and directness is Bennett's style.
This simply-structured novel centres around three main characters, Henry Earlforward, his wife Violet and their maid Elsie.
This novel is not especially dense, but it achieves tragic pathos by highlighting the pitiful obstinacy of a very ordinary man Henry and his wife, contrasted with Elsie, their faithful maidservant.
Bennett always has no illusions about himself as a "great" writer, creating an illusion that he is no more than a middlebrow "popular" writer, so much so that his versatility and seriousness as a writer are often undervalued.
Earlforward marries his Violet because he thinks she is as stingy as he is but that element of her character is dropped after they move in together.
He was coherent as a character, I thought, but she wasn't.
Towards the end there is a long description of Elsie doing something (forget what) where there seemed to be a lot of irrelevant detail.
It's not a book with a happy ending; it's claustrophobic, most of the action centring on the shop on the Riceyman Steps; it's tragic, both characters dying at the end as a result of Earlforward's stinginess.
Indeed a great book, but unfortunately also a little bit on the boring side.
It is the story of a miser, and that is really not that exciting.
(But I felt completely comfortable being bored in this way.) It is also the story of a second-hand bookstore owner.
And everything Bennett has to say about books, great collector that he was himself, is rather wonderful.
How Bennett tells us about the way they like each others character although they are ultimately strange to each other is quite fascinating.
Well, he does.Miser dies in the end but only after his wife.
Some reviews complain of a lack of action.. The genius of this novel is that moments of great drama happen when, objectively, the scene is completely still. It has a minimalism which, coming from an older writer of the previous generation, must have driven the hip Bloomsbury era writers mad. This novel is from the high watermark of novel writing: fully aware of itself but before the rot of self-consciousness set in.
People, enjoy your money while you can.
Riceyman Steps / by Arnold Bennett
BBC Radio 4 - Book at Bedtime
