https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/287633.Dark_Magic
5 Her dark one Stars "The five years I allotted you your freedom have been hell for me and dangerous to anyone I came into contact with. I am very close to turning, and it is too late for me to seek the dawn. It was necessary for the safety of all concerned that I come for you now." -GregoriFirst read June 2012 reread January 14 2016Reread January 23 2017*Spoilers* "And just for the record, your mind needs to be washed out with soap! Half the things you think we're going to do are never going to
"Keep hoping, my love, and perhaps someday someone will obey you." Aidan's mouth twitched, the golden eyes sliding over Gregori in amusement.
"She is impossible."-Gregori, Savannah, and AidanSavannah started off in this book running for her freedom.
But Savannah grows up quickly when she almost loses Gregori to the darkness.
What I loved most about Savannah was she knew what an amazing man her lifemate was.
My yummy, sexy, bossy, dark Gregori, how I love you!
Gregori was perfect, amazing, and I fucking loved him!
I can't give words to how much I love Savannah and Gregori.
I am your lifemate." -Gregori and Savannah
Gregori is the Ultimate Alpha Male!!He gets 2.5 "Arrogant Alpha Stars"Gregori is a hunter of rogue vampires.
The only thing that prevents Carpathian males from turning rogue, is a Lifemate.
She wants her independence and isn't interested in answering to an ancient, bossy, control freak vampire that is claiming to be her life mate.
Then it just became comical that the hero would be so arrogant and dismissive of his life mate.This is a bit of a dark read with elements I would expect to find in a bodice ripper.
During an episode when he is out of his mind, he rapes his life mate, taking her virginity.
Another Goodreads friend aptly coined them 'Feehanisms.' She is so right.
The good news is I get introduced to even more yummy, intense men in these books.I liked Savannah.
I really liked the communication Gregori had with Savannah when he saved her and her mother Raven's life.
I am a sucker for the idea of a love that is destined, so it really appealed to me that Gregori had waited so long for Savannah.Again, the action is fierce and the violence is not shied away from.
But if you like a good supernatural adventure book, you will love this book.
At last, we get Gregori's book. Most readers who started the Carpathian series at the beginning with  Dark Prince , have been waiting for our ancient warrior to get his happily ever after --and with Dark Magic, the wait is over. We only had to wait four books. And for me, the wait was worth it. Gregori is one of the oldest and the deadliest of Carpathian men. As with all the men of his kind, he lost the ability to feel emotions and see in color when he turned 200. He's nearly a thousand now. And
At last, we get Gregori's book.
Gregori is one of the oldest and the deadliest of Carpathian men.
All vampires were Carpathians to begin with: they all drink blood; can use telepathy; shapeshift; and must avoid the sun.
But Carpathian men who give up hope of salvation, of finding their lifemate, embrace evil and become the beast that is the vampire.
Savannah begins to soften toward Gregori as she sees the ways he is fragile.
We get several reminders that Gregori is "the Dark One." And our standard reminder that he is "sensual with a hint of cruelty." But it's just a tiny annoyance in what is a really good book.
UUUUGH. Ok, this is the worst. I had seen this series floating around, SO popular, and I decided to give it a whirl, got 2 books. I try not to be critical but these Carpathian dudes are too much to tolerate. I mean, Alpha is one thing, but they're controlling, condescending and borderline abusive. NOT FOR ME. Ugh. She writes a pretty good racy scene and that's the best I can say about it. I wanted to punch the dudes in these books!
I was so excited to read Grigori's book but worried it would be a let down.
I loved watching Grigori fall head over heals for Savannah and do exactly the things he often mocked Mikail and Aidan over with their women.
Yet once she got over her short lived meltdown over her loss of independence, she handled Grigori with care and he really needed that.
Of course, Grigori likes to give orders and he commanded her against her will too often for her safety.
I like the heads up we got on Julian's story.
This book is so good!
I loved it!
It is very well written, interesting, and the reader really gets to know the characters.
Gregori is an awesome hero.
He was so sweet in his own way.
I understood how she felt, but I didn't like that she hurt Gregori's feelings when she kept saying she wanted to live on her own.
I liked her a lot more when she went all in with him and became the lifemate he deserved.
They were a great couple and I loved how they interacted with each other.
Gregori definitely goes on my top heroes list :)
Well, I don't expect great things from it, and they're enjoyable for what they are, but Feehan's writing is very unimpressive and starts to get annoying pretty quickly.This is Gregori's story.
One of the ancients, the second-oldest Carpathian alive*, he is revered and feared among his own kind for the ruthless hunter that he is.
After resisting his domineering ways and getting over her fear of him, Savannah reaches out to him and teaches him that he is not the monster he believes himself to be.I want to like these books more than I do, but it's simply Feehan's writing style that bugs the hell out of me.
This was difficult to rate (more my reaction than a review).The first 30% was somewhat disturbing.
I worry how Savannah's response to the dubious consensual scene could be upsetting/triggering to some even though it made sense in the context of the Dark Carpathian culture in which neither lifemate party really has a choice.I did like how Savannah quickly came to accept her lot (quickly compared to heroines in previous books) and worked her way almost into a side-kick role by the end of the story.
She is the strongest heroine yet.The action-adventure in the final 30% was tons of fun.
I thought the first book was bad. Nothing compared to the forth one. Rape, pedophiles, domination (and not in bed) choose your pick. And all of it boring to death (yes, sex too. sigh)I know I prefer heroines who kick, rather than kiss, ass. Still I enjoy pararomance and their domineering males. I may appreciate soulmates, but not lifemates when this means no choice whatsoever, a woman turned into a slave forced even in her mind. nope, no way.
My review is based mostly on the series itself and not 2 much on Dark Magic.I have read the first five books in Feehan's Dark Series.
All the women are the same; long hair (velvet hair mind you) past their hips, narrow ribcages and small waist which empahsize their full breast.
The men are all dark and brooding and bossy beyond belief.
Dark Magic is no different from the others.
If it is the 1st Dark series book u've read u may like it because u have not yet endured the repetition.
Oh, this one was outstanding! I'd been anxious for Gregori's story, and it didn't disappoint. He's the ultimate "bad boy" and, though it isn't very P.C. of me, I loved the depth of Gregori's love for his lifemate, his passion, his extreme protectiveness and even his jealousy! The unexpected touches of humor and the humans you will come to know are just icing on this delicious cake. Now, I'm looking ahead to Julian...
Another great read by Feehan! It gives me immense pleasure to read a "Hero" who had not succumbed to other women..he was emotionless inside and only his mate would cure him, hence, he would only wait for her. How exceptional! Absolutely safe read
Once a male Carpathian turns 200 he loses the ability to feel emotion and even to see color if he hasn't already found his life mate.
Once they start down that path they lose their soul and become a true vampire and are under the sentence of death by Carpathian law.Gregori is ~ 1000 years old and has no life mate.
Trigger warning for rape (view spoiler)[He gives her 5 years on her own, but by the time he comes to claim her he is very close to turning vampire.
I read this book when it was 1st released. This was the book that stopped me from reading CF for years because I hated the H. I thought he was a jackass. He basically (view spoiler)[ rapes the h the 1st time they have sex. This stops him from turning into a vampire. (hide spoiler)]. I thought he was cold to the h.Years later I re read & liked it more. Lol I liked the H but the h annoyed me. On the 2nd read I understood & emphasized with the H about the above spoiler. He literally was los
I read this book when it was 1st released.
This was the book that stopped me from reading CF for years because I hated the H.
He basically (view spoiler)[ rapes the h the 1st time they have sex.
This stops him from turning into a vampire.
(hide spoiler)].
I thought he was cold to the h.Years later I re read & liked it more.
On the 2nd read I understood & emphasized with the H about the above spoiler.
At times I wish he was warmer in certain scenes.I thought the h was TSTL.
The writing felt jerky at times.
Gregori and Savannah omggggggggggggg!!! ❤❤❤ LOVED THIS BOOK!This is my favorite of the series. So far..
Gregori was pretty much what you'd expect from seeing him in previous books.Savannah is the daughter of Mikhail and Raven, The prince and princess of the Carpathian people.
Unfortunately, this book makes it seem like Raven never fully accepted her roll as a Carpathian female and Mikhail's lifemate and passed those "reservations" on to her daughter.
Savannah's mishmash of fear/paranoia about the whole lifemate situation and her place as a Carpathian female had me questioning the parenting skills of Raven and Mikhail.
Savannah and Gregori manage to get through these issues (even making a good friend along the way) and end the story starting a very nice HEA together.
Skipped book 3 because I didn't care about the main character...what I was really interested in was Gregori, the hero of this story.Christine Feehan created a very enigmatic character in Gregori and I really wanted this story to redeem the series for me, but I quit reading on page 21.
I wanted to see Gregori find happiness, but I can't read anymore.
I'll just rewind the 21 pages I just read and make up another happy ending for Gregori and Savannah - one where perhaps Savannah has corrective surgery on that "narrow rib cage" so she can have a damn sandwich like a regular chick.
DNF on page 25, because Gregori is an obnoxious, possessive, creepy, stalking alpha. I get the fantasy, but not in the mood for this. BYE.
Con este libro tuve sentimientos encontrados por la personalidad del prota pero igual ha terminado gustandome la historia . Ya en una reseña les contaré más :)
I really looked forward to reading Gregori's story after him popping in and out of the previous Dark Series Novels.
Gregori and Savannah’s story started out okay but… She had to know he was relentless and would come for her in five years.
Loved that scene in the cave where Gregori is sitting with his face in his hands and she slips into his mind without him knowing...She really saw him for what he was for the first time and starting coming around.
The guilt and anxiety that Gregori felt over manipulating Savannah into being his LM made me think we were setting up for an interesting hurdle to overcome.
It never takes me over a week to read a book.
I just kept getting so bored and it seemed like so much repetitive stuff that I just couldn't stay engaged.
And bored and would have to go read something else for a while.
I would have liked to see more romance at the end.
It ended abruptly after dragging forever.
I do know that they "might" show up in other books but in the 4 I've read it's not happening that much.
I did "like" this book but really want and need one I'll love.

two and a half stars actually.
The story revolves around the most powerful of 'Carpathians' (read: vampire) and his runaway mate.
Said mate was MIA for 5 years in order to be an independent women of the world sans a dominating alpha to dictate her every move.
However, she never really achieves that kind of freedom (she's constantly under surveillance by people employed by her mate as well as her father) and is brought to heel pretty quickly by Gregori the H.
It's also here, that I finally lost my patience and managed to skim through the rest of the book without really reading it.
2 1/2 stars!
While the writing was good, and the characters compelling, the story could not keep my attention. It picked up once they got to New Orleans, but it still wasn't enough to make me feel like I really enjoyed this book. 3 stars
I really doubt the fellow in the book is that old.4) And further more, there isn't a single cemetery in the Quarter.
You see the first settlers figured out real quick that they couldn't bury their dead under ground, so they put all their cemeteries well away from where they lived.
The closest cemetery to the Quarter would be in the Garden district where the newer, more naive, settlers from New England moved.
This is the story of the Carpathian healer Gregori and his lifemate Savannah, the daughter of Mikhail and Raven.
What is it with the Carpathian males, thinking they are so special that a woman must do as they demand every time?
The descriptive words are boring in their repetitiveness- velvet sheath, tight velvet sheath, velvet soft voice,velvet gripping voice, silken hair, silken breath, satin mouth, skin was satin, silver gaze, glittering silver eyes, molten silver eyes, molten mercury etc etc.Admittedly, I almost didn't make it to the second half of the book, but this was where the more interesting scenes occurred, and the story sees them take a trip to New Orleans, where action outside of the bedroom proceeds to occur.
Basiclly Feehan is recycling the exact same story over and over again, and simply changing the names, the woman's hair color (all of the females are described as beyond beautiful, with a tiny waist, narrow ribcage, and large breasts), and a few other small details.The ONLY reason i'm giving this 2 stars instead of 1, is the fact that i ended up liking Gregori more than the previous two male leads, Jacques and Aidan.I have returned to this series numerous times over the last few months...hoping that maybe, just maybe the next installment might capture me the way the first book, Dark Prince did.
How's about half a star?I know many people love Feehan, but I just cannot bring myself to like her writing.
The novels I've read so far, Dark Magic included, seem best summed up by the phrase "all talk, no action."Feehan favors exhaustive exposition as opposed to furthering a plot.
We spend the entire novel focusing on the characters' feelings and doubts and the simpering female's fears that he's going to take over her life or that she's not strong enough for him and the powerful male's terror at her thinking he's a monster and...oh for the gods' sake, give me a plot already!
When she learns that Gregori, the infamous “Dark One” is her intented lifemate, known as the boogie man of their people, the most respected and feared of their kind, she knows at eighteen years old she is not ready to tie herself to such a creature.
Gregori has lived for centuries, one of the oldest of their kind, he knows he will not be a easy mate, so he gives her that time, despite the fact that he isn’t sure he can wait five years for her.
