https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76761.In_the_Midst_of_Death
Hookers...blackmail...murder...police corruption...S&M fetishes...politics...and lots...and lots...and LOTS of Welcome to another scintillating episode in the 80-proof life of New York's favorite unlicensed private detective.Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder series is about as close to a sure thing as you're gonna find in the mystery/crime jurisdiction. Not only is Scudder one of the most exceptionally well-drawn characters populating the genre, but Block is adept at devising smart, attention
Not only is Scudder one of the most exceptionally well-drawn characters populating the genre, but Block is adept at devising smart, attention-holding plots that keep you tuned in to the story's goings on.Here, Matt gets hired by a dirty cop turned whistleblower, who suddenly finds himself framed (?) for the murder of a fetish-specializing prostitute, whose clientele includes some of the city's most influential gentlemen.
Block, to his credit, has allowed Scudder's drinking to work its way into the story naturally, without fanfare, and we've seen Matt's problem steadily get worse.
In the book “In the Midst Of Death” Scudder elects to try and help a “bad” cop, accused of killing a prostitute, to clear his name, as he claims not to have committed the murder.
The following year (1977) “Time to Murder and Create” was published in paperback, by Dell and is now considered to be the second book in the Scudder series.
The first was the first hardcover edition of the third Matthew Scudder book “In The Midst Of Death”.
That book did not sell well and so that was the end of “The Lawrence Block Library”.This special signed edition is limited to 500 numbered an 26 lettered copies.
Broadfield hires Matt Scudder to convince Carr to lay off, and Matt's former colleagues in the department aren't pleased to see him working for a snitch.
But soon their anger is the least of Matt's worries when the Broadfield case is complicated by murder and a sudden love affair.This is a good mystery, but far from a great one.
In addition, much of this book is taken up with Matt's first serious attempt at love in a very long time, but the affair itself is not very interesting, the lovers' dialogue often trite: in the end, Scudder seems much more comfortable with his friends, the barmaids and whores.
Matt can easily chat with cops, call girls, writers, gay night club owners or landlords of Hell’s Kitchen apartment buildings, and Block gives a great sense of New York through Matt’s wanderings and conversations.
Another bonus in this one was written in the mid-’70’s, shortly after many scandals involving the NYPD had come out so it makes a nice gritty backdrop for a mystery.* - I originally called this the second book of the Scudder series and re-read them in that order because there's some confusion due to the fact that they weren't published in the order Block wrote them in.
For those who may not know, Scudder is a former cop who now works as an unlicensed private detective, doing "favors" for people who show their appreciation by giving him money.
He spends most of his time in saloons and has a drinking problem that is obviously getting worse as the series progresses.In this case, Scudder is asked to work on behalf of a cop named Jerry Boradfield.
What follows is an very good story in which Matt does what he's best at--walking around the city of New York, talking to people, sorting out their stories, and otherwise doing the grunt work that will make the case.
Broadfield, the cop, hires Matthew Scudder to clear his name and find out who is framing him.
But can Scudder clear a dirty cop when all the other cops are gunning for him?Lawrence Block keeps surprising me with the Matthew Scudder series.
Scudder continues to grow as a character, already far beyond his somewhat stereotyped alcoholic detective roots.
The mystery itself twists and turns, spiraling like a snail shell and New York is almost a character on its own.I've said it before but I can't recommend Lawrence Block's Matthew Scudder series enough.
Very good, very noir, with a poignant, small tragedy for Matt.
Great dialogue, great atmosphere, well-drawn characters.
The best of Scudder so far.Notes and Quotes -8.0% ...
“Do you like this time of year?” “Yes. Very much.”“It’s my favorite, I think.
October, November, the best time of the year.
I didn’t like the big cocky son of a bitch.
But that didn’t get in the way.
As a matter of fact, I generally prefer to work for men I neither like nor respect.
Diana's dialogue (monologue) here is wonderful.
this book #3 is Far superior to book #2.
Great prose rhythm here, interesting characters, Matt being proactive again.
The fact that I like to spend so much time with him worries me...In The Midst of Death is another solid good-read from Lawrence Block.
This time retired-cop-turned-unlicensed-private-detective Scudder is searching for whoever killed a woman in order to set up his client.
It was just about as good as the others I've read, it just lacked a certain something...maybe action, excitement or motivation.
NOTE: So far no Scudder book I've read has been super action-packed.
I wouldn't want to give that impression.In summation, In the Midst of Death keeps the series afloat and nothing about it is going to stop me from diving into the next book!
Lawrence Block created a character that I have grown so fond of, Matthew Scudder even though this is only the second book in the series that I’ve read.An ex NYC cop (is there ever one?) he’s an un-licensed PI because being a licensed PI requires paperwork, reports, and reporting income to the IRS.
But it’s hard not to keep them away,in my mind, from Matt.) Regarding moral codes, you won't find any Stephanie Plum's on my reading list; well, maybe one or two during my experimental stage.
Must insert one of my favorite quotes by Nathaniel Hawthorne, "Easy reading is damn hard writing."The ending of this book was particularly surprising to me and a little disappointing.
Matt Scudder continues to impress and please me.
He has become such a richly realized character, after only three short books, that I have a hard time believing he isn't living out his golden years somewhere (on or off the wagon -- haven't decided yet) with a lovely lady by his side or a scruffy Heinz 57 mutt to keep him company.
Scudder recounts a blackout where he experiences lost time.
That's not to criticise the book or the writer because if any other author wrote this story and couldn't find a way to give me the wow factor it would almost certainly stink, it's just that Lawrence Block is the master of this genre; he knows what he's doing, he's got the skills and he's got Matt Scudder.So far this series feels like it's building towards something amazing; it's all atmosphere and scene setting, character introductions and world building, there's an edge to everything and the sense that something awful is bubbling under the surface of Matt Scudder's daily life waiting to derail him properly this time, that he's going to have to go through hell and come out of the other side barely hanging on some time soon and Lawrence Block is going to be there to document it in all it's vivid mental and physical agony.
The guy likes a drink, he doesn’t think it’s a problem but knows it isn’t a solution but does it anyway.
All this and add in that he’s got a conscience/ethics in there somewhere then you’ve got some great reading material.The plot was the only slight let down, it’s still good and intriguing and I was nowhere near close to guessing who the culprit was but it didn’t grip me like the first one.
I’m going to have a little break from the series, perhaps 2 weeks to try another audiobook or 2 and will then pick up this series again.
After hemming and hawing about whether to start Block's Matthew Scudder series, I finally read one of the books.
Block does a wonderful job of painting the portrait of Matthew Scudder, ex-cop turned PI who has a drinking problem, self-worth issues, two sons that he rarely sees, and a world outlook that might best be described as misanthropic.
In what would have been a straight murder mystery with other writers, Block changes this, does things his way.
The murder mystery takes a backseat to the journey Scudder has to go on to make the pieces fall together.
For the third time we meet Matthew Scudder a hard-drinking ex-police officer working as an unlicensed PI, who is involved into a case of police corruption, the murder of a call girl and a corrupt policeman.
Which ends up with him in jail be the main suspect of the murder of a call girl.Scudder ends up in a case for the truth about murder and corruption.
And while Scudder does not mind the police corruption he does have a problem with people being murdered and the reason for it.
Once again Block delivers a tale of morality that involves booze, insight in a darker Scudder that recognises his trouble with drinking.
As many have noted in reviews posted here, Block begins to really establish Scudder as a person rather than as an unlicensed detective.
Between his shaky relationship with his ex-wife and kids, to his struggle with intimacy, to his budding alcohol addiction.I feel a little crazy giving all these 5 star ratings to Block's books but they're really that good.
We're given what we need to know about a suspect, not what they had for breakfast 3 years ago on a Tuesday - I guess what I'm saying is the man knows how to edit a book.I don't exactly know where to go from here.
Damn you Goodreads for not establishing a rating system higher than 5 stars!
This time around, Scudder's in the cups while dealing with dead hookers, corrupt cops and (view spoiler)[people who will do anything for a book deal (hide spoiler)].
In addition to giving us another case to solve, Block lets us look further into Scudder's life as we navigate the streets of 70s New York.
He does a pretty phenomenal job of striking the balance between case and background.
Block also brings back a character who I happen to love - gay bar owner and sometime informant, Kenny (just back from summering on Fire Island, of course).
My love for Matthew Scudder only grows stronger.
What do I think? I think you should check out an excellent review:http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Or if Stephen's effusive praise gets a little windy, and the gifs are too troublesome, check out Dan's succinct thoughts: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Really, what more is there to say?Oh wait, don't forget Kemper's nice overview:http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Reviews brought to you by the trio of taco-talking trouble who drew me into this series.
Perfect measures of police corruption, the challenges of walking the tightrope for call girls to stay alive and the investigative skills of our man Scudder to uncover truths and manage to free one cop and lead the guilty one to turn himself in for murder. His personal life holds its own drama. These books are the right length and good medicine between physical tasks - better than Ibuprofen maybe.
It's a move that lands him in a jail cell on a murder rap and Scudder has his work cut out trying to free Broadfield.I’ve got a bit of a series jag on at the minute; I’m currently reading 5 separate character series at the rate of 1book a month.
One that does look like prolonging my interest and staying the course is Lawrence Block’s Matthew Scudder.Currently 17 books long, this is the 3rd instalment I’ve read in as many months.
Each case, each crime, each murder is somewhat incidental, in my opinion to the real mystery of Matthew Scudder which Block slowly reveals a book at a time.
This third installment in the Matthew Scudder series, while the weakest of the first three novels, was still nonetheless very entertaining. It was on the anticlimactic side, the wrap up whodunit feature of the book was a little shallow in comparison to the first two novels. I enjoyed most seeing Scudder's character come to life a bit more with the shedding of some of his demons. From what I've read, the series doesn't even start to take off for another couple novels, which is impressive being that so far they've been great.
While this is book three (which I originally thought was book two) Lawrence Block covers the same important information about Matthew Scudder; which is good for people reading out of order but jumping straight into this one after the first book, it felt more like a copy/paste job.Unlicensed Private investigator is truly shaping into a great character and even though I’ve read two books in the series so quickly and one after the other, I still want to read more, which is a real testament to Lawrence Block’s writing skills.
*3.5 Stars*This book was just as enjoyable as the previous two in the series. It's refreshing how consistently solid these books have been so far. Probably the biggest reason for this is how vivid both the cast of characters and the dialogue scenes feel in Block's novels. Everything just rings true. His scenes are entertaining with cool dialogue, but the "coolness" never feels forced. There is an ease to Block's writing that I really enjoy to revisit every time I pick up one of the Scudder novels!
Matthew is approached by a middleman - he represents a cop who's decided to turn evidence over on police corruption. Now a high class call girl says the cop has been extorting her for money - and sex.Good investigative procedural with much drinking, smoking and dead bodies.
That kind of character is not going to inspire a lot of interest and/or sympathy with me, unfortunately.The parts where we get closer to and learn more about Scudder didn't seem to be as apparent as in the past two books either.
He really is an awesome protagonist for this kind of book...he's tough enough to go to the sketchy places where the truth is but he never comes close to a macho caricature or obnoxious tough-guy.
The people around Scudder comment more about his drinking habit than he does, really.So all in all this didn't grab me like the past two, but it was still a good book and it's hard to have a truly bad day with Matt Scudder.
Lawrence Block manages to keep things interesting using the same character, the same supporting cast and the same story format. Quite the achievement. IN THE MIDST OF DEATH is my favorite of the series, so far. Goes deep into the police hierarchy and unwritten rules and it gets ugly. Boy does it get ugly as sin. Matthew Scudder becomes more fascinating and more attaching by the book as he keeps himself from everybody, including the reader, but is never self-righteous about it. Just wounded. Looking forward to the next Scudder novels very much now.
I read this years ago, and I just wanted to say how much I love Matthew Scudder. I'm also a huge Lawrence Block fan.Check out my video review here: https://debbimackblogs.com/2017/09/19...
Scudder is my least favorite of Lawrence Block series, but it is better than 95% of detective novels that I read! Very enjoyable and entertaining.
They are fast paced, smartly plotted but are missing the final gear because Scudder is such a great character and more involving or ambitious stories could be told with him.Scudder is noteworthy because Block's writing hints at layers waiting to be unraveled in his protagonist.
However people who find Burke's writing dense might as well find in him a more streamlined version of Robicheaux.As for the plot, a whistle blowing corrupt cop gets framed for murder and Scudder steps in.
The plot, the writing, the protagonist every element of the book seamlessly gel together and flows with a nice rhythm.
So...This was an OK book.
I’m having a hard time with the main character.
I sometimes find it hard to find anything good in him.
The thing is, he is so bothered about the bad things that have happened in his life, he has become weak.
He can’t get over the bad stuff.
Stuff, he didn’t have control over.
This book was about Matthew trying to figure out who framed Jerry Broadfield.
He figures it out and he’s brilliant.
Sometimes the characters and the story line is difficult to follow in these books.
So, I’m not sure I can continue.
In a lot of ways, this is a really unassuming little mystery, going along its way, when all of a sudden you get just struck with some empathic feel for the narrator, even though he hasn't said a thing about what he is feeling. It's all somehow there. Such a great hallmark of characterization.This series, following an ex-cop on his solitary journeys after accidentally shooting a child, can seem a bit dated, and none of the characters are very synpathetic, but it all pulls together to give a wonderful example of the human condition.
