https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31343.Pandora
this story is different because it's Pandora's story, and she's not like a character we've encountered before.I generally don't like the female characters Anne Rice creates as much as the men (they don't seem to have that same pizazz or edge), but Pandora changed this for me.
For one thing, Pandora is mortal most of the story (that's what really makes this story different)...
and it makes this book different from the others (deserving of the title "New Tales").One last thing about the book...
I thought the writing style in this book was the best of what I've read so far...
Although Pandora is part of the "secondary characters" of the famous saga of the Vampire Chronicles, for me is one of my favorite books of Anne Rice.
A great book for all those who want to discover Anne Rice and love the mysterious and romantic side of the vampire.
It's a fast reading with a great narrative rhythm.Spanish version: Aunque Pandora forme parte de los "hermanos secundarios" de la famosa saga de las crónicas vampíricas, para mí es uno de mis libros favoritos de Anne Rice.
Un gran libro para todos aquellos que quieran leer algo de Anne Rice, de rápida lectura y de ritmo ágil.
• Oct. 22, 2006: This is really an outstanding story overall. There were very few things that took away from it, and even those didn’t bother me that much. Yeah, Pandora is another rich vampire from an aristocratic family. Yeah, Anne Rice said differently when she first mentioned Pandora. Again, that still didn’t take away from the story. This book also reinforced my belief that Anne Rice is really at her best when she is writing historical fiction. The way she brought ancient Rome to life was f
•	Oct. 22, 2006: This is really an outstanding story overall.
There were very few things that took away from it, and even those didn’t bother me that much.
Yeah, Pandora is another rich vampire from an aristocratic family.
Yeah, Anne Rice said differently when she first mentioned Pandora.
Again, that still didn’t take away from the story.
This book also reinforced my belief that Anne Rice is really at her best when she is writing historical fiction.
The way she brought ancient Rome to life was fascinating.
The way she made things seem so normal, yet so interesting was outstanding.
"Look, the stars have all but faded. What is it like to be one of them? To be admired only in the darkness, when men and women live with candles and lamps. To be known and described, only in the heaviness of the night, when all the business of the day has ended!"
Pandora, by Anne Rice, was written in 1998 and it is the first book in The New Tales of The Vampires series.
Like many vampires we know, Pandora is "a morose, despairing immortal who initially wanted immortality but soon regretted her choice and turns into a dark, indifferent cynic." In this book, we get to learn more about Roman times and religions, about Queen Isis, Osiris, and we get to learn a little more about some other vampires famous in Rice's world like Akasha and Lestat.If you are a fan of Anne Rice's works, this is a no-brainer to pick up and continue your journey.
I love reading stories about vampires and Anne Rice has it going on!
In short, this book is about a 2,000 year old vampire named Lydia (aka Pandora) who lived during the height of the Roman Empire (15 B.C.) She is approached by a young vampire named David in the streets of Paris to write down her mortal days leading up to her immortal change.
This novel read as she is writing her story for David.
Pandora is a strong female lead character who is not only smart and witty, but years before her time in the areas of women's rights and feminism.
I've got curious about this book because of our loyal customer is so totally into this vampire things.
After a week, no one seem to buy the book and every time I check on the shelf I've grown overly curious about this book, so I end up borrowing the book from the shop and read it before going to bed.
To my surprise this book has caught me!What makes this vampire book interesting is main character, I've always fallin' in love with this strong woman character, plus the setting is in ancient Roman empire.
I just love it!
This was a discarded library book and I picked it up because the price was right and I thoroughly enjoyed the vampire trilogy that started with Interview and ended with Queen of the Damned.Pandora's story was mildly interesting at points but mostly irritating.
I don't love Rice's style of writing and it's really the plot that enticed my interest in the first 3.
I didn't like Pandora, the character, and I couldn't care less about any of the other characters.
Half the time that I was reading it I was deciding to just quit when something piqued my interest, and then the cycle would begin again.
Pandora wanted to set the record straight about Lestat's version of what Marius said about her. She does so, but not much more was revealed to us about her thousand-year life than the beginning and her transformation into a vampire. She wandered Europe for centuries, but chooses to spend 400 pages on the first 35 years of her life. It was still interesting to read about, but I was hoping for more than a rehash of things we pretty much already knew.
I read The Vampire Chronicles and a bunch of other Anne Rice books a couple of years ago and to be honest, I overdosed.
I think the reason behind this might be the fact that before ever starting the books, I watched the QofD movie where she was a weird old lady, not very like her actual description in the books.But, ultimately, I liked much of the story in Pandora.
Despite liking the story, there was one thing I found extremely annoying, and that was the fact that if you haven't read the Vampire Chronicles, you would be completely in the dark about this.
We've met Pandora in the Vampire Chronicles as one of the ancients, and alas, this is her story.Pandora is a patrician from ancient Rome during the time of Augustus.
Rice brings her laudable talent of recreating distant times and places to bear on this wonderful addition to her vampire catalogue.
One does not have to read all the Vampire chronicles to enjoy and grasp Pandora, as she can be thought of as a type of Prequel to them.
If you enjoy reading, it is rare to have a quality series that spans 12 books.
Beautiful description and depictions of Ancient Rome and the Mediterreanean. Bonus: Most excellent love story between Marius and Pandora. Some of Rice's finest work! On a side note, while it's considered Book 1 of the New Tales, I don't really consider this one as separate from the Vampire Chronicles, like I would with Vittorio.
There were many strong areas of this story but the ending was not one of them.
It kind of petered out.
Pandora was my first Anne Rice novel.
I can see why she is popular and it has nothing to do with vampires.
She understands the craft of storytelling and uses history to her advantage.
She is mindful of the forces that shape history and her story portrays how cities & Empires evolve with time being their great enemy.
Philosophy, religion, myth, paganism & superstition are all explored in this book in the very human search for the mysteries of the universe.4 and a half stars.
I loved this book with a passion! It is an amazing story that hooks you from the first chapter. The way it is written is amazing. Anne Rice is an amazing novelist. I love her books. The brother book to this, "Blood and Gold", Marius's story, is heartbreaking and exciting. Both books have so much in them its like reading three books in one, but it isn't overwhelming. The plotline carries very smoothly. I loved these books so much and would recommend this to anyone with a stomach for death and a heart for love.
Although it's worth mentioning that Pandora doesn't really have a definite conclusion in terms of the on-going search for meaning that tends to exist in all of this author's works.
While maybe not essential reading, this is still a nice addition to The Vampire Chronicles.
If you're a fan of earlier installments, and generally enjoy Rice's writing, then it's worthwhile giving Pandora a shot!
It's still a good story on it's own merit.For the sake of comparison here's how I've rated her other works:Interview...
- 5*The Vampire Lestat - 5*Queen of the Damned - 5*The Tale of The Body Thief - 3* The Mummy - 5*
No avanza para nada en el hilo argumental de las Crónicas, por lo tanto es un spin off en toda regla.Es algo extraño y resulta muy increíble que el inglés David vaya a conocer a los vampiros ancianos, que son más fuertes y antiguos (por algo se llaman Los Hijos del Milenio) que todos los demás, debido a que, en primera instancia, es super peligroso; en segunda instancia, él es una creación de Lestat, y no todo el mundo quiero a nuestro héroe; en tercero, ¿para qué?, ¡está loco!.
I kind of like that, though, and don't mind having to come up with my own conclusions without the author leading me by the hand.There were a lot of references to other characters from other stories, so I think I may have ruined the outcome of some of the earlier books, but I'll probably forget by the time I read them.
Interview With the Vampire was her first book, so maybe I'll just read that one and then go on from Pandora.I liked the book for the way history was portrayed - as seen through the eyes of a Roman.
Pandora is one of my favorites in Anne Rice's Vampire Chronicles.
Way, way back in the Nineties, when I fell in love with Interview with a Vampire, this was one of the very few of Anne Rice's offerings that I failed to devour (yes, sorry, I know, bad pun) so when I came across it recently I was pleased to pick it up and recover some of the joys of the original books.
I had thought I had a reasonable understanding of the succession from previous books, but this was impossible to follow.The attempts to set the historical scene were laughable; yes, we all know Romans used Garum, fish sauce.
Much as I remember Armand, Pandora spends significant chunks of time locked in her own head.
Around page 105 Pandora says: "This was very rude and irreverent, but I was in a full state of alarm"For the majority of the book this seems to be her character.
But, personally, I was more interested in learning of Pandora throughout her life, not just the early off shoot where her brash impulsivity seemed alien to what I remember of her character.
At this point the story turns back to the vampire's mythology and this reminded me why Anne Rice's version of vampire lore remains my favourite.
4 starsFirst of all, I have to say that this is my very first Anne Rice experience. I have only contacted with her vision of vampires through the "Interview with the Vampire" film, which is why I knew who Lestat was (he is mentioned throughout "Pandora"), but had never heard of Marius and Akasha. This is a stand alone, so I didn't need any "Vampire Chronicles" knowledge to understand the novel, yet I felt intrigued about these characters and their evolution.Meet our main character: "Pandora" isn
I have only contacted with her vision of vampires through the "Interview with the Vampire" film, which is why I knew who Lestat was (he is mentioned throughout "Pandora"), but had never heard of Marius and Akasha.
Yes, they met twice in Rome as mortals, and found each other again later in Antioquia, when Marius was already a vampire and protector of Isis and Osiris (or Akasha and Enkil, Mother and Father to vampires), but there is more to this story than their assexual relationship.This is a two thousand year-old vampire's testimony of the world and its many metamorphosis.
Este livro conta-nos a história de um vampiro com dois mil anos de idade, chamada de Lídia, a Pandora, que terá vivido durante o auge do Império Romano.
E grande parte do livro ela fala dele, e tenho a dizer que é das mais belas histórias de amor que li.Ao invés do que se possa pensar, este livro e o próximo tem ligação com as Crónicas dos Vampiros, como se fosse um extraÈ um livro que poderia ser um pouco maior, deixa-nos cheios de sede de conhecer mais, viver mais pelos olhos de Pandora.
Lestat, although he is a very interesting character, does get annoying after a couple of books, so a book from the point of view of Pandora was perfect for me.Pandora is a woman during Pax Romana, or the golden age of Rome during the later years of Augustus.
Pandora is actually my favourite book about Anne Rice’s vampires not just because I love Roman history, but because Pandora herself is one amazing three dimensional character.I give this book 4.5/5 stars, rounded up to 5 stars for Goodreads rating purposes.
I almost want to reread Blood and Gold to hear how Marius described his side of the story.
Because this felt a little different in Pandora's point of view.
Her adventures in Antioch were lots of fun and even more so when she meets Marius again.
So Pandora isn't a flashy character and neither is this book about her in comparison to some of the Vampire Chronicles.So here's the series list, if you were kind of confused from the list of books on the inside front cover:Vampire Chronicles:1.
Interview with the Vampire2.
The Vampire Lestat3.
The Vampire Armand7.
Blood and Gold9.
Blood CanticleNew Tales of the Vampires:1.
Pandora2.
Pandora2.
But in her story I saw she was a strong Roman woman, who was well educated, always told her opinion, loved to read books and maybe was even smarter than any man.
But the book ended so fast.
I think it was an amazing story if I started to feel emptiness after reading it and thinking why it ended so fast.
And this book gave me so many feelings...
It was some personal feelings I found in this story.
I saw how Marius and Pandora were bond to each other.
A true love bond.
I had little curiosity about Pandora from the previous books, but adored this short novel and devoured it in a morning.
Pandora herself is an engaging character - brilliant and beautiful, as are all of the main vampires, but well explained and multifaceted, and a fascinating counter to Marius.
Pandora's "sorrow" is less explained, and (my Kindle tells me) a full 10% of this book goes by before we move beyond her musings in the present, a figure that seems a little gratuitous.
He de admitir que en 'Pandora' me he encontrado lo que me esperaba, es decir, la historia de la vampira Pandora, de cómo llegó a convertirse en bebedora de sangre y a vivir más de dos mil años, pero contada de una manera algo insulsa y con poco brío.
Gran parte de la historia transcurre en la Antigua Roma y se trata más de novela histórica, donde se habla de las costumbres y la cultura de la época, que una historia de vampiros.
Esto no significa que sea una trama aburrida, es interesante, pero no es la Anne Rice que me gusta, la que desvela las aventuras y desventuras del vampiro Lestat.
This is the first and only book I've read by Anne Rice, and from what I've been told, it's not a good representation.
It's a good example of what I mean when I say, "You can feel when the wuthor hasn't been there." At times she focused too much on the history and not enough on the moment.
off, like too dramatic or responding to things in an emotional way I don't understand, I'm not sure what it was.
But part of my distaste for this book might be due to my lack of a love for vampire stories.
Even so, I still think the whole thing was a bit contrived.
This was the first Anne Rice book that I read. If Pandora is the first book that you have read by this author, and you are considering making this you first and last Anne Rice book, than I have some advice for you. Don't. I almost gave up on Anne Rice after this but I'm glad that I continued on and read The Vampire Chronicles! Pandora is not horrible but it is not incredible and far from Rice's best work.
No me gustó tanto, fue después de la mitad del libro donde comenzó a ponerse interesante la historia, gracias a Marius. Es más un 3.5/5.Ya he acabado casi con la saga de vampiros de mi querida Anne, solo me falta Lestat and the Realms of atlantis, espero que la universidad me de tiempo para leerlo pronto.
