https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161001.John_MacNab
“The function of man is to live, not to exist.” Jack London, Tales of AdventureThis is a quote John Buchan would probably have agreed with, as the need for constant challenge in order to prevent decay of the body, mind and spirit is a common theme in his books.
John Macnab is a light-hearted book and I certainly choose not to take as snobbery the delight the three men take in ‘dressing down’ as tramps or to be offended by some of their more unreconstructed views about social status.As a backdrop to the exploits of the collective named ‘John Macnab’, there is a charming love story.
No spies or murderers in this one: it is a light-hearted romp in the Highlands as long as you can cope with the idea of killing animals as sport. Three men, each eminent in his field, feel stale and bored with life, so decide to pit their skills against three landowners and their gillies by forewarning them of intent to kill a deer or catch a salmon on their property and then return it to them, meanwhile evading capture.
Unlike many Buchan books, the adventure in this one has no political side to it (except for the fact that some politicians take part). Rather, it is adventure purely for the fun & sport of it.
It is a simple story of three bored gentlemen having a great time in the hills and heather as they play at being poachers.The characters, with one exception, all well-drawn from the major players to the more walk-on parts.
The gamekeepers and ghillies who form the opposition to MacNab are very sympathetically treated.The only character who is a 'little thin' is Palliser-Yeats, but considering that he is banker Buchan probably didn't have much to work with there!It has been a joy to read this novel again.
Perhaps it is time to revisit some more Buchan.
Like so much of Buchan's prolific output, it might nowadays at first sight seem rather archaic, with characters romantically hankering after a Corinthian past largely of their own imagining, but it espouses simple values that effortlessly stand the test of any time.The novel opens on a summer day in the mid-1920s with Sir Edward Leithen, accomplished barrister and MP, visiting his doctor seeking a remedy for a dispiriting lethargy or ennui that has recently befallen him.
Buchan has often been dismissed as writing stereotypical characters wholly lacking in political or social conscience.
I have fond memories of this book from my reading in early adolescence, so I was pleased to find it available to download free to my Kindle.
I know nothing whatsoever about hunting and shooting (am temperamentally opposed to both), but I found myself rooting for 'Macnab' and as a reader inhabiting his skin - that's the power of the story and the skill of a great writer in the genre.
By the way, much though I love books, I feel my pleasure was not lessened in any way by using the electronic reader.
Who can go past this puppy for sheer brilliance.
A number of jaded upper class chaps looking to spice up their lives with a series of hunting exploits.
And still it is a wracking good yarn, exciting comfortable, a past age.
Leithen is my favourite Buchan character, so understated but so brilliant and successful.
And when it all ends, its just the chaps, so rich and important that no one is going to complain.
And Buchan does such a wonderful job.
Probably the most entertaining story I've read in a while. I bought it less than 24 hours ago, and had to tear myself away from it to go to work. If you're a fan of fieldsports, and can decipher the intermittent bits of Scots dialog, you may just love this book. It's light reading, not too heady, and with a good amount of humor. There are a few philosophical and political points, scored discretely, that made me pause for thought. Overall: a great read. And it seemed to stand alone, even though part of the Leithen series.
I've read all Buchan's fiction, most at least four times. This is the one I go back to the most often. Flawed like all his work by shallow (but lovable) female characters and snobbery. Redeemed by gusto, honor, hillcraft, enchanted love of Scotland and, above the snobbery, real affection for simple unpretentious country people like Fish Benjie and the brave dutiful navvy or (in other books ) the Gorbals Diehards.
Buchan's best. An true 'boy's own' adventure in the Scottish Highlands, very much of its period, but with characters that linger like friends in the memory. The perfect book for a cold, wet, winter's afternoon.
A letter challenges three Scottish lairds to stealthy hunts on their land - but the mystery writer, "John Macnab," is in fact three rich gentlemen in need of a cure for their ennui.This is the most light-hearted and enjoyable yarn by John Buchan that I've read. Unlikely? Yes. Fun? Absolutely.
The best of Buchan's novels.
The cost of freedom is eternal vigilance. That is the unexpected and powerful message concealed in this lighthearted tale.
I have almost finished my annual August re-read of this Buchan classic, the action of which starts on our wedding anniversary, 24th August.
"Rich people aren't happy. From the day they're born 'til the day they die, they think they're happy but trust me: they ain't." - Moe the Bartender The Simpsons
Loved this tale of intrigue and getting the better of your opponent, in the highlands of Scotland.
Only one (super-extended) quote required here to give a flavour of the thing:GLENRADEN CASTLE, STRATHLARRIG, AUG.--19--, SIR, I have received your insolent letter.
What old Raden doesn't' know about deer isn't knowledge." Lamancha read the second reply: STRATHLARRIG HOUSE, STRATHLARRIG, Aug.--, 19--.
Whoever gets this job will have some excitement for his money." Lamancha read out the last letter: 227 NORTH MELVILLE STREET, EDINBURGH, Aug.--, 19-- SIR, Re Haripol Forest Our client, the Right Honourable Lord Claybody, has read to us on the telephone your letter of Aug.-- and has desired us to reply to it.
It would be going too far to suggest that there was an element of satire in the book, but the author was certainly “knowing” about the social background of his characters.A shadow cast over the jolly jape was that of the First World War. The three heroes of John Macnab plus Archie had all fought in it.
The ennui suffered by the three heroes of the collective John Macnab was not just a plot device but a common condition in the twenties in the wake of the War (as evidenced, for example, in Huxley’s novels)….This is an extract from a review at http://monthlybookgroup.wordpress.com/.
A snapshot of class from the point of view of a Scots-leaning socialist-leaning man of WWI, in the shadow of the war, suffering ennui, musing on the culture of the highlands: "Lamancha had an athletic, well-trained body, the navvy was powerful but ill-trained; Lamancha was tired with eight or nine hours' scrambling; his opponent had also had a wearing monring; but Lamancha had led a regular and comfortable life, while the navvy had often gone supperless and had drunk many gallons of bad whiskey.
Consequently the latter, though the heavier and more powerful man, was likely to fail first in a match of endurance." I love Buchan!

A ripping yarn which just grabs you and carries you along.
It is a hugely enjoyable tale of three respectable London men in the early 1920s (a barrister, a banker and a politician) who are suffering from ennui and so create a challenge to poach stag or salmon from three neighbouring Scottish Estates.
I know nothing about fishing or shooting, but this does not stop you enjoying the story for what it is, which is a thriller.
This was first published in 1925 and is a fairly lighthearted story - no battles, no master criminals.
Basically three middle-aged men suffer midlife crisis and decide to do something different by pseudonymously wagering three landowners in the north of Scotland that they can poach their game undetected.
Sir Archie is not one of the three middle-aged men but he does help them and in doing so meets his future wife, Janet.
This is a charming and entertaining story though I was a little disappointed by the ending.
This was recommended to me by my grandmother, who reads at least three books a week and has a hard time remembering books as a result of that. She remembers this one just fine, however. That was the first real point in its favor. The second was that not only did she remember it, she said it was a long-term favorite. After reading it myself, I think it's well-written, fun, and gives you something to think about while it entertains you. It's not suspenseful exactly, but there's plenty of action. I would definitely recommend this as a solid light read.
I read this several years ago and enjoyed it immensely. So I was really pleased to find this in an extensive secondhand bookshop in Tewkesbury last week, along with two other books by the same author. My personal book of the year for 2010 is probably going to be The Wild Places by Ian MacFarlane and it is partly because of this that I want to re-read John Macnab, a book that is, among other things, about reconnecting with the wildness that is within us, stifled as it is by the trappings of civilisation, consumerism and urban sprawl.
If you're not one for detailed descriptions every so often of how the ground lies, you might get bogged down in a couple parts of John Macnab, but it's well worth it! John Buchan's adventures are always excellent and this was no exception.
This is a wonderful read. An enchanting story, full of mischief that reminds me of Flashman style stories. The author builds up the story as you go, to the point where you can't put the book down. It really is an easy read.
What The Trouble with Harry is to Hitchcock, this is to Buchan. The aftermath of the Great War in British society is well documented in this exploration of the responsibilities that go with wealth, land and property.
Most entertaining. Utterly snobby and ridiculous, of course, but a ripping yarn as they say, and some charming characters.
A story involving Hannay's friends, although he's not in the book.
a fine bit of escapist fiction, thoroughly enjoyable.
