https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/625151.Iron_in_the_Soul
One day, aged nearly 16 I was an observant, Orthodox Jew. I enjoyed the ritual, I enjoyed the scholarship, I submerged myself in the study of Rashi, the Ramban, Talmud and Torah (view spoiler)[and boys (hide spoiler)].
It was a Shabbat and I was walking home from the synagogue, nearly three miles, looking for four leaf clovers in the hedgerows.
That was my shiur.And when I awoke I had a whole new world of literature open to me and began to form my own existentialist philosophy and never again walked home from the synagogue.
Introduction--Iron in the Soul
Often you do things you didn't expect you'd do, and this can force you to reevaluate your self-image.In the first volume, Mathieu ends up doing something quite extraordinarily despicable.
He doesn't have a high opinion of himself (when we get to listen in on his mental sound-track, he's often thinking je suis un salaud), but he'd never expected that he'd steal a large amount of money from a close friend to pay for his mistress's abortion.
So is he just a salaud, then?
So Mathieu is again surprised when he finds that he's picking up a rifle and heading for the top of the church tower.
In the third and what was to be the final book of the "Roads to freedom" series, Sartre explores and elaborates on his philosophy of what it means to be human and his central concepts of freedom and responsibility are here set in the context of war and politics.
The book follows a number of people in and out of France, but focuses on a number of soldiers, one group choosing to fight against all chances of success and another being captured.
It is a book that will stick with you, and even if a number of characters are introduced in the earlier books, it can very well be read on its own.
Giugno 1940: i tedeschi sono a Parigi, la Francia è capitolata in un tempo vergognosamente breve. Gente allo sbando, in fuga, o bloccata, paralizzata; c'è pure chi collabora. Soldati prigionieri, a migliaia, con la morte nell'anima, ripensano, discutono, imprecano; qualcuno reagisce, rischiando, morendo, i più attendono il loro destino ignoto, che sarà di deportazione e di campi.Questo grande romanzo di Sartre, del 1949, faticoso e dolente, chiude un trittico denominato “Le vie della libertà” dopo “L'età della ragione” e “Il rinvio”.
All three of the novels are written in a different fashion from one another, making them a rare lot to enjoy.
The first book, The Age of Reason, is written as a story with two main characters and their friends in the background.
The second novel, The Reprieve, is a kaliedascope of different characters, friends, strangers, military people and leaders all thrown together in a twisting mix of closely knit paragraphs.
This book, Troubled Sleep, is the third.Sartre is mostly known for his philosophical works, so these novels are also solid proof of his talent as a multi-dimensional writer.
While I am generally more fond of Camus' fiction, every book in the "The Roads to Freedom" trilogy stands out as my favorite fictional work by that group.
Make no mistake, this trilogy is a masterpiece of existentialist fiction."The Roads to Freedom" series (originally meant to be a tetralogy) was a fictional representation of new direction in Sartre's vision of existentialism which was far more participatory.
Using the back-drop of the Nazi occupation, Sartre's characters move from a prewar existence of complete apathy toward their life and others into individuals who are empowered by the will to resist any impediments to their freedom.This book is my favourite of the three, and was the first that I read of the series.
The only thing more horrifying than defeat is its aftermath.That is the tale that Jean Paul Sartre has woven in 'Iron In The Soul'.
Heart wrenching stories of the men who had lost the War for France; a war that they did not choose to fight, did not even know much about.'Iron In The Soul' is a tale of the fall of heroes and humans.
People portray themselves as worms and corpses; sometimes out of shame, sometimes out of necessity.
Here and there, flashes of human dignity sting the reader (and the characters) with pain.
Definitely the least interesting of the series.
It seemed like Sartre got bored writing about these characters and really just wanted to finish the series.
The only character that reached some sort of conclusion was Mathieu.
All I can say about Mathieu is...
Same with Gomez, he just sort of falls out of the picture.
The existential theme carries through Daniel and Mathieu.There are some interesting themes, the exhaustion and futility of the war, the frustration due to a lack of understanding of what they were actually fighting for, and the feeling of an uncertain future continue from the previous books.
I picked this book up for a buck yesterday and I can't put it down--that is a good thing--too bad it's not raining.Next Day--Beautiful day and finished beautiful story. I will be mulling this one over for a while.
The narration starts when the war broke between Germany and France in 1939-40.
Sartre threw light on what happens after defeat in a war.
Sartre portrait a tragicomedy picture of aftermath as France fell .
How defeat or victory makes people shudder,run,immigrate, act on impulse, take pride or make celebrations on massacre.
With a sudden rush of impulse all beauty and virtue lost their meanings and all gets shot with a big BANG when one is not sure whether one is going to take in his next breath or the current one is going to be his last one!Personally I've found the book amazing.
Hay una parte en la que algunos soldados franceses prisioneros ven a los alemanes como seres realmente superiores porque eso los hace sentirse menos mal por haber perdido la guerra contra ellos, ya que visto de esta forma los alemanes son invencibles y no se podría haber hecho nada más.
Es decir, aceptan la derrota como algo natural y harían lo que sea (incluso venerar a sus vencedores) por volver a estar en libertad.
Vale la pena pensar un rato sobre estas situaciones.Pero en general siento que la trama está muy extendida para lo que se quiere decir.
It's got Sartre's kind of characters that others don't like to use (communists, homosexuals, etc.), and it's got that existential feel that, mixed with feelings of French patriotism gone sour after WWII defeat, seems rather strange.
It is fresh in the context of the war, having been written at the turn of the 50's after Sartre himself was a prisoner of war and was involved in the underground.
Good for WWII lovers and worth the effort for Sartre fans, but little more.
A good end to the trilogy. I didn't care for 'The Reprieve', which was too dis-jointed to get into. Iron in the Soul was a much smoother and interesting read. Particularly the scenes in the POW camp and Matheiu's transformation. Even then, I wonder about the necessity of certain characters minimal story lines, such as Daniel, who didn't need resolution. All in all, well worth the read.
The final book of sartre's roads to freedom trilogy is the best, in my opinion. This book relates French consciousness during the Nazi occupation / fall of France. In the face of defeat, a country's people struggle for dignity and meaning. In the context of war, Sartre explores what it is to be human.
مُذهلة!
Final installment in the "Roads to Freedom" trilogy.
What they do for themselves counts very little since it is the bigger question of the war which will decide their fates.In Iron in the Soul the cast is reduced to a bare minimum – just Mathieu and Brunet really, though Gomez, Sarah, Daniel, Ivich, et al, and revisited briefly but then dropped as the main action switches to the French army in the north, defeated without having actually waged a battle.
For the most part this book returns you to only the characters from the first novel, The Age of Reason, and shows you the path that each will be on for the duration of World War II.
Indeed, I'd think they provide a good representation of what all Europeans were experiencing during the war, and to a lesser extent Americans and Africans and Asians as well.The style of this book is much more like that of the first, and so far less disorienting than the second.
The first part of the novel is pretty standard omniscient narrator realism, but when we move to part two, it's narrated by a new character, Brunet, and there are no paragraph breaks: it's one long 120 page story of prisoners of war captured by the Germans as the French surrender.
Sartre's style seems half way between the traditional Victorian novel and the new forms of the early 20th century.The recently politicised Sartre uses the prisoner of war camp as a microcosm of capitalist society.
La libertad es lo mas preciado, lo que nos es mas caro, y sin lo cual nuestra vida pierde sentido, ese otro que temo y que odio es parte mía, y sufro con su desgracia que es también mía, porque yo también muero por ser libre, porque sufro ante mi finitud y eventual muerte ¿Que es pesimista?
Y que por alguna razón, necesito que no quede muerto en mí, ese otro que también soy yo pero que veo en ustedes me despierta la necesidad de acercarme y esta es mi botella al mar.
Most of Part One is spent with Mathieu, and in these sections there is perhaps an overload of characters, new ones continually entering the frame in a way that some might find hard to keep track of.
It deals exclusively with Brunet and his experiences as a prisoner, a continuous and unrelenting assault of thought and conversations that, despite including more characters than Mathieu's sections, does not feel like it suffers from overcrowding.The introduction in my edition tells me that the title would be better translated as 'Death in the Soul'; regardless, this is a fine end to the series, despite the absence of the unwritten fourth novel.
A cool, World War II-setting novel based on the Fall of France.In the beginning, there was a part when there were a few frenchmen in new york talking about how it's a shame that no one cares that France is falling to the Germans, but then after that there is no mention of those characters or setting again.
I picked up the book because the book was called Troubled Sleep, which I thought was something existential, but I was equally amused that the book was actually based on World War II.
The novel, composed of several slightly related stories, describes the angst felt by the soldiers and civilians following the fall of France in 1940.
It is slow going at first but is worthwhile for those interested in Sartre, anguish or the fall of France.The various protagonists respond to defeat with: boredom; passivity; denial of responsibility; sensual indulgence; drunkenness; and anger leading to suicidal resistance.
The soldiers deny any compliance in the political policies (appeasement) that contributed to the outbreak of war.In captivity, the attention of the men is on immediate concerns such as food and shelter.
They eagerly follow false hopes of early release (as part of French surrender); they become religious.
(Translated by Gerard Hopkins from La Mort Dans L'Ame --- a somewhat different title.) This series was apparently supposed to continue beyond three books, and although I get the sense of transition in this book, there's also completion: Mathieu makes a final decision for freedom, Brunet finds out that the mindset he wants his fellows to share does not come about so easily.
However, the main focus of this book is Mathieu, representing the typical soldier who fights simply because, and Brunet, the party member who has a cause which is shared by few.
I've been reading the Roads to Freedom trilogy with nothing in between for the last couple weeks.
And what a road it is!
I really want to know what happened, especially to Daniel, Brunet, and Schneider.
Well, NEED to know!
as life, we cannot tie up the loose ends, and doubt Sartre would have either.The entire series is very relevant to the mess the US is in today not only individuals, but society and the state.
Part 2 and the conversations between Brunet and Schneider I found stunning and will go back and read them again.I've got more Sartre read in my collection of long ago.
These novels need to read many times.
Tomorrow the black birds would come...The haunting, foreboding line that finishes this book, which though brilliant is I think the weakest of the trilogy.
It focuses on less characters than the previous two instalments, though dwells on them for longer stretches of time.
Time with Brunet in the prison camp dragged on a little too long for me and I would have liked to have found out what was happening with the others: Marcelle, Daniel, Boris and Ivich etc.
Again some brilliant, beautiful lines.
He really has written a book that is 'beautiful, hard as nails and makes you ashamed of your existence.'
I think the Reprieve was the most interesting in the series language-wise.
Troubled Sleep starts excellently with Gomez in New York trying to register American emotions as Paris falls to the Nazis...
Throughout this trilogy you get a sense of the French people, desperate to close their eyes and sleep forever, or to awake from the nightmare of their times.
Their paralyzing indecision is what characterizes a generation increasingly consumed by apathy and guilt.
The generational gap between veterans of WWI and the disgraced soldiers of 1940 is an interesting theme carried out in the trilogy.
Freedom when unknown sounds so appealing but when it shows itself in naked, crude form is not digestible .
While the pursuit seems so worthy and noble to make life turn into an ideal - it is only the one who reaches it knows it .
Others who read and see are yet to make anything out of the final summit to freedom , as for them it lies on a higher summit, a more noble summit .
If being able to release the trigger was freedom was Mathieu, then so be it .
so far 50 pages in or so its of course well written and dark.
- finished it a few weeks later.
this book had a really interesting fragmented narrative.
The first was made up of several groups of people, with a main narrator of each group whose internal monologue we hear.
the second half was entirely different than the first made up of only one group with only one main character's inner workings exposed.
the storyline is also atypical and manages to weave Sartre's ideas and characterizations into a novel.
also i definitely had at least two nightmares directly influenced by this book but i still recommend it.
