https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40995.Sword_Citadel
I don't want to give too much away but Severian sure doesn't stay in Thrax very long.
I've read before that Gene Wolfe's biggest influence is G.K. Chesterton.
The deeper into the Book of the New Sun I get, the more I get flashes of Chesterton.
Much like the reveals of which of the characters are policemen rather anarchists in The Man Who Was Thursday, I eventually was thinking "How many characters were actually the Autarch or working for him?"While it's not a quick read, I found my mind returning to the Book of the New Sun again and again.
Hmmm, the only reason I'm not giving this a 5, is that the fourth book in the series becomes almost too esoteric, even for me, a lover of esotericism, to digest.I haven't read the Urth of the New Sun, the 5th book that is supposed to clear everything up, yet.
I'm not saying that it is thus diminished; the work is certainly too rich, dense and sophisticated for it to be a mere attempt at proselytisation, and one can certainly enjoy the narrative at many levels.However, I think I might have to read the 5th book and then perhaps re-read some of the earlier books yet again, to get a better 'grip' on all that is being said and suggested.This is not an easy body of work to wrestle to the ground.
This review is for the whole thing, The Book of the New Sun Volumes 1 -4, including Shadow & Claw, because, really, it is one big story.Now I realise that for many people this is not even close to being the most important consideration, but I have to address the question: is it Fantasy or is it Science Fiction?I'm a sucker for classifying, categorising, and defining, so this is the kind of question I take great pleasure in.
And that's why this is fundamentally a fantasy story.I love this book.
Gene Wolfe, the poetically accented writer of intricate fantasy/science-fiction hybrids like this exquisite tetralogy, was inspired by that other pen-wielding magician Jack Vance's  Tales of the Dying Earth : Wolfe's series also takes place on a radically altered Earth in the far, far future when the Sun's fuel is running dangerously low. Amidst the wreckage of past civilizations lies the sprawling, endless city of Wolfe's protagonist torturer-apprentice Severian. Beginning as a gauzy, haunting
The aura of lush decay that permeates the first book provides an ambiance Wolfe can never quite attain to, let alone transcend, in the following three pieces; but the route each of the three provides for the journey towards self-realization for the Torturer Apprentice are, nonetheless, worthy companions to the opening act.This is neither a Tolkien clone nor a genre-checklist fantasy-lite: Wolfe is a gifted writer who excels at painting sombre moods and shifting scenery, at casting mysterious strangers to beset the torturer and scattering hints that Severian's story is not all what it seems; and he expects the reader to make the effort to puzzle through his mysteries and render his veils.
Unfortunately I feel like it's manipulating my puzzle-loving mind into thinking about it all the time.
That would have been okay if I had really enjoyed the characters or the plot in the books.But instead I feel like I'm being dragged kicking (but not screaming) back into the story simply because my mind wants to figure out it.
(hide spoiler)] So that's good.That's not to say that there weren't a few "come on, really?!" moments, but they were directed more towards the plot than the main character.
But I think I'll have to read The Urth of the New Sun to figure out how I actually feel about it.
Considering how little plot exists in the over eight hundred pages of Wolfe's story, one can't really expect satisfying climaxes or conclusions, and the end to the final book reminds you of it, not with a battle or even a series of interesting actions, but in exposition and conversations.
Conversation is the strength of the series, getting to more profound or interesting topics, or at least getting at them better than Severian does when he's on his own as narrator, but that doesn't make it a good ending.
This concludes one of the of the most fascinating and poetic fantasy series i have read.
I enjoyed the third and the fourth books a lot more than the first two.
There are a lot of stunning passages and moments.
Even though a lot of things do get resolved in the final book I'm not really sure how much of the world that i really understand.The fairy tale that reminded me of the jungle book and the story of Romulus and Remus and the other stories later told in the Lazaret are some of my favourite parts in the book.
The last house sequence is very fascinating and “The sand garden” is one of the most beautifully written chapters.
I wasn't exactly bored (you can guess that from the rating) but at times I was less entertained and intrigued than other times.While some characters actually show up again and we learn what the really are up to (this was great--the whole Dr. Talos & Baldaners element was very fascinating and set up, it turned out, quite an exciting climax of the Book) a lot of other characters and scenes appear to be random and without any real purpose, which annoys me.
Okay, there are a few war scenes in this book that I did not enjoy that much (I generally tend to be a little bored whenever I encounter such scenes in stories), but they did make sense and they did help the protagonist evolve and learn things.
The highlight has to be the story told through interpretations of a character's Confucian/scripture-like aphorisms.So it's clear that stories and the way people tell them fascinate Wolfe, he peppers these stories all throughout The Book of the New Sun. This ties into memory and interpretation, of which the former is probably the most important theme.
The theme of memory ties into the motif of cycles and the prose itself, taking old forgotten words and recontextualizing them into something new, and in the narrative by repeating played out tropes and then twisting them into something different and foreign.
4.5 stars. Part three of one of the best Science Fiction/Fantasy series ever (after The Shadow of the Torturer and The Claw of the Conciliator). The Book of the New Sun Tetralogy is a superior achievement. Highly Recommended!! Winner British Fantasy Award for Best NovelWinner: Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel
Omnibus editionSword of the Lictor: 5 starsCitadel of the Autarch: 4 starsEasily 5 stars for the series as a whole.
DNF, I struggled with this series so I gave up with the second book, not my thing. I didn't really get a lot of what was going on.
Sheesh! I originally wrote a review for Gene Wolfe's "Sword and Citadel". It was brilliant, pulitzer-prize-winning prose. However, the computer I was using while writing it threw a blue screen of death at me right after I finished it. A familiar tale, I'm sure. It's the modern version of "the dog ate my homework". Sometimes, though, the dog really does eat your homework. What do you say then? Tell the truth or make up a more plausible lie? The Plot Severian is a member of the torturer's guild. H
It seems that every word, every letter written in the pages of the "Book of the New Sun" was deliberately put there to add layers of meaning and symbolism and self-reference to the story as well as to advance the plot, of which there is plenty.
Dorcas, in the Book of the New Sun, is a woman who is raised from the dead by Severian.The plot also does funny things with the concept of time.
There's also a book that Severian keeps reading that contains stories that seem to have some kind of mystifying morality to them and perhaps are re-imaginings of ancient Greek, Roman, and Norse myths.
Awesome in the original meaning of the word, so far i don't think that i have read anything that compares it.This along with Shadow & Claw really confirms the calibre of Gene Wolfe as a writer, just as i write this i am still processing everything.I cant really wait to read more of him, really cannot!
My three favorite novels in the world are Dune by Frank Herbert, The Name of the Rose by Umberto Eco, and The Book of the New Sun by Gene Wolfe.
The Book of the New Sun is less accessible than The Name of the Rose and weirder than Dune.
The narrator-main character tries to fool you into thinking that it's just an interlude included for his sense of completeness, but like many of things he says, it's just a subtle lie or perhaps self-deception.It's one of those books that I wish fervently my friends would all read, because it's such a pleasure to discuss.
Aramini’s analysis sheds much light on the key underlying themes of the story, namely the death and resurrection of the Urth via the coming of the New Sun, the ambiguous messianic nature of the protagonist Severian, the healing power of the Claw of the Conciliator, and Severian’s duty to undergo testing by alien powers to determine if humanity is indeed worthy of this rebirth.There are so many themes and ideas in Wolfe’s epic that it has spawned an informal school of analysis, including books such as Michael Andre-Druissi’s Lexicon Urthus, Robert Borki’s Solar Labyrinth: Exploring Gene Wolfe’s “Book of the New Sun” and Peter Wright’s Attending Daedalus: Gene Wolfe, Artifice and the Reader.
Reizē nedaudz tracināja (rakstības stils) un reizē arī patika. Jā. Un vairāk patika, protams.
If anything, parts 3 and 4 of The Book Of The New Sun series are even more thought-provoking than the first two, and that's saying something.The Sword Of The Lictor: Having finally reached Thrax, Severian sure doesn't stay there very long.
From Agia to the Alzabo, the strange beast-men to the sorcerers, there's definitely no shortage of action and adventure in Sword, and yet there are some truly touching scenes and themes - I'm thinking mainly of Severian's relationship with little Severian (even though he later shrugs off his death like a sociopath).
Have you ever loved a book entirely, but were reluctant to recommend it to anyone because you were sure they wouldn’t “get it?” That’s how I feel about Wolfe’s Book of the New Sun. It looks, smells, and tastes like an epic SFF adventure, it has all the right parts, the right characters, the right kinds of incidents making up the story, and yet when you put it all together it’s something so utterly other from what decades of genre and storytelling conventions have taught us to expect that when my SF book group read the first volume a few months ago, most of the reactions were along the lines of “Uh, what the hell is this?”In my review of Shadow & Claw, I called the New Sun cycle a “coming of age” story, but I no longer think that’s true, at least in the traditional sense of a young man setting out to discover himself.
These final volumes of The Book of the New Sun continue the travels of our Torturer-hero through the dying planet of Urth, our Earth, thousands of years in the future.
Condemned by a rapidly fading Sun, hounded by bizarre beasts, surrounded by mysterious alien power brokers, warring against the mindlessly politically-correct remnants of North America, treating with flesh-eaters who absorb the consciousnesses of the dead, and dodging an ex-lover bent on his destruction with a legion of horrifically monstrous assassins at her disposal, our hero loses the love of his life (who may be his mother) and possibly his younger self while ascending to the ultimate seat of power on the planet.
This is the second half of Severian's bizarre journeys in Urth, which started with "Shadow and Claw." The latter was a very tough read, but I found Sword and Citadel to be easier, much in part because I got used to Wolfe's elaborate and shifting styles.
It was still tough though, for the developments in this book really stretched conventional story telling.
Also, there are parts in the book in which I lost faith in Severian, as his evidence for the seemingly supernatural elements of the Claw are confused week, and seemingly unreliable.
Completing Gene Wolfe’s dying earth tetralogy The Book of the New Sun, Sword and Citadel collects books three and four of the series, Sword of the Lictor and Citadel of the Autarch.
As with Shadow and Claw, Wolfe’s language is sublime, but his storytelling, particularly when his convincing characters break form to share their own stories with one another, is easily among the best to be had.
While Wolfe does continue to expand on this universe in later novels, including The Urth of the New Sun, which acts as coda to the tetralogy, The Book of the New Sun is a complete, self-contained, and satisfying work well worth reading.
I don’t think I’ve ever read a science fiction or fantasy novel that came so close to the complexity of other great works of fiction.
This is super-literary bildungsroman stuff, that just happens to occur in the the far, far future on an Earth whose sun is going out.After finishing this series of books, I immediately thought “Well, I’m going to have to reread these”.
I really wish I had studied it in the context of a book group or class – I could’ve used some discussion, surely.Anyway, I’m pretty damn impressed, and will be reading some other stuff by Wolfe in the near future.
It is dense enough that even if you know the ENTIRE plot, and have read the denouement several times over, there are still many many layers of things to discover and marvel at.So. Here we go.The "Book of the New Sun" series is a lengthy, complex, layered, almost biblical account of a torturer living in a far, far, far flung future who becomes elevated to a planetary ruler and putative savior of Humanity.It is filled with some of my favorite literary devices (no doubt the reason my friend recommended it to me in the first place)* Allegory* Unreliable narration* Blurring of fantasy/reality* Ambiguity (of many kinds: ontological, notional, moral)* Social commentary/satire* Stories within stories (flash backs, embedded morality tales, comic relief, meta-commentary, etc.)* Neologisms galore (many tailored to linguistic wonk types)And last but not least* An interesting treatment of time travel (more aligned along the lines of the brilliant Bill and Ted's approach, rather that of the moronic Back to the Future).Or, if you've read it, the innovative "Gates of Anubis" take on time travel...Above all, it is a book about religion (in a metaphysical/philosophical sense, not the literal sense), morality and redemption.
Just as LOTR was one novel comprised of six books collected into three volumes, Wolfe's magnum opus is one novel of four books collected in two volumes.
What this means is that even though this feels like a sequel to Shadow & Claw, they're all part of the same story, and several scenes toward the end of this volume reach back to the very beginning of the first volume.
There are a TON of hard-to-understand words, but as long as you can roll with it they really build up this unique atmosphere that totally swept me away.
The last half of the Book of the New Sun is, as expected, a really good conclusion to what has been quite a journey.
The writing describes the world around Severian in some ways that are vague, but others detailed in a way that's unique from any other book.
The last book (Citadel) is certainly good, but there's a lot of allegorical stories and sitting around.
The Book of the New Sun is still, however, one of the best books I've ever read and is one of the most unique science fiction/fantasy (it's sort of both) stories around.
The Book of the New Sun is so very different from anything I've ever read.
It's like explaining today's technologies to someone from ancient Rome or something, they would just see it as magic.
And even if the reader could figure it out, Severian himself often has hard time explaining it correctly since he just doesn't have the vocabulary that we might have, so the reader often has to first figure out what the hell Severian is even describing.
And one really has to read all four volumes, it's all one story after all (with very little resolution between volumes).
If you read this book looking for a story or a plot or even a reliable source of information about what's happening to the characters, you will be driven up the wall.
If you read it with an open mind, well...All I can compare the experience of reading The Book of the New Sun to, is an acid dream in a sweatbox, narrated by a mad king, which truly throws wide the doors of perception and changes the way you think, see, write, talk, act and see the world.
That would be like saying that the writing of this book, over which I have labored for so many watches, will vanish in a blur of vermillion when I close it for the last time and dispatch it to the eternal library maintained by the old Ultan.The great question then, that I pondered as I watched the floating island with longing eyes and chafed at my bonds and cursed the hetman in my heart, is that of determining what these symbols mean in and of themselves.
There's almost no exposition at all - everything is told and shown through little more than extremely obtuse hints (oddly enough, he breaks his own trend by explaining certain plot points in facepalmingly-simple breakdowns - but only for those puzzles which were already the plainest and easiest to put together, leaving all the huge questions looming unaddressed in the background).
Also, it's one of those where it's so obtuse that when you read discussions/interpretations and find out what really happened, as much or more of it ends up being "uh, really?" than "Ohhh, I see it now." Especially when it tosses in a few throwaway lines about the entire cosmology of the series/world/universe.These books should not be read or taken as individual novels, but as one long work - they will not stand on their own.
