https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30753987-the-leavers
Junior year of high school, he had seen a Chinese woman in the Littletown Mall. Thin, with permed hair, gripping plastic bags with the handles twisted around each other. She'd honed in; there was no hiding his face, and when she spoke he understood her Mandarin. She was lost. Could he help? She needed to make a phone call, find a bus. Her face was scared and anxious. Two teenage boys, pale and gangly, had watched and mimicked her accent, and Daniel had said, in English, "I can't speak Chinese."
There are two stories being told-- that of Deming Guo, whose mother disappears one day and leaves him to be adopted by white, upper middle class Americans, and that of his mother, Polly Guo, who comes to America from Fuzhou to find a better life for herself and her then unborn son.At its heart, The Leavers is a story of constantly feeling out of place.
She watches her son become better and better at speaking English, and feels herself left behind, struggling to communicate with him as he becomes ever more part of a world she will never belong to.Then, beneath the issues of immigration, race and identity, there is simply the story of a mother and her son, the love between them, and the effects of them being ripped apart.
I knew about it - read a few things about this story - Great Reviews-- but I THOUGHT I HAD READ ENOUGH DEBUT NOVELS ABOUT IMMIGRANTS- legal 'or' illegal!!!
Or maybe -- ( oh God, just maybe one of these books WILL be THE BOOK THAT MAKES THE POWERFUL GLOBAL SHIFTING DIFFERENCE?)......
Rather than tell about the details of this story....( I'm guessing you can find that in other reviews).....I going to share a few GUT WRENCHING images that I've taken away:  NOBODY comes to America hoping to pick gao gao out of strangers toes and scraping calluses the size of a nose off of the heel of a woman's heel.....
I WILL NEVER *EVER* SEE A NAIL SALON THE SAME WAY AGAIN AFTER READING THIS BOOK!
The Leavers by Lisa Ko is utterly exquisite. This book about two different people's struggle between doing what is right, what people want and expect them to do, and what they want to do, is tremendously moving and powerful. As the title suggests, it's both a story of those who leave and the effect on those who are left.Deming Guo is 11 years old. He's being raised by his mother, Polly, an undocumented Chinese immigrant, and they live in a crowded Bronx apartment with Polly's boyfriend, his sis
Deming wants his mother to be around more yet he wants her to have the money to give him what he wants.One day, Polly leaves for her job, and never returns.
Deming doesn't understand why his mother has left him, and bargains with himself constantly that if he does better in school, is nicer to his peers, Polly will return.
But she doesn't.When the burden of caring for Deming becomes too much to bear for those left behind, he becomes the foster child of an older couple, Peter and Kay, both college professors, and they convince him that to better adjust and assimilate with his peers in upstate New York, he should change his name to Daniel.
Imagine you're a 17 year old girl named Peilan who becomes Polly, and you've come come to the US from China seeking a better life .
Imagine you are a young man named Daniel who was born in Chinatown in Manhattan, sent when he was one year old to live with his grandfather in a village in China and then sent back to his mother at six.
This is a sad story in many ways depicting the separation of a mother and child.
5 Stars.Deming Guo was a young boy when one day, his mother disappeared.
"The Leavers" is a coming of age story about a Chinese American boy named Deming Guo (n/k/a Daniel Wilkinson).
The day his mother failed to come home, everything changed.
Thereafter, Daniel struggled to find himself and be accepted by his "parents."Polly Guo's history was a difficult one.
It's also a story about choices.
It's a story about letting go when doing so seems like an impossible feat.
To summed it up, it's a story that touched me in a myriad of ways.
It’s a well-written and interesting coming-of-age story about a Chinese-American kid, Deming (aka Daniel).
It’s also a story about his mom, who disappears when Deming is eleven.
Her powerful story isn’t told until the last part of the book, though, so I had to spend most of my time hanging out with Deming.
Although the stories have a different feel and focus, that book is similar to this one in that it’s about Asians coming to America.
Both books are excellent.I purposely tried here to be plenty vague about the plot; I don’t want to spoil it for you.
Kay and Peter are do gooders, patting themselves on the back for giving Daniel a new life when a younger child was what they would have preferred.
There are some parts in the book that went on too long or went into too much detail, especially since it didn’t exactly add a lot to the relevance of the situation, and bordered on ‘filler’, but that’s really just a minor blip when compared with what I took away from the story.The novel is partly a mystery, since we have no idea what has become of Polly after her vanishing act, but it is mostly a story about the bond between a mother and son, the cause of the heartbreaking rip in their relationship, the resulting fall out, and the struggle to find one’s true identity.
With sincere gratitude I thank Algonquin Books, Annie Mazes of Workman Publishing, the author, Lisa Ko, and Edelweiss for providing an e-galley of Leavers for my enjoyment and review.A special shout-out to Northshire Bookstore and Tracy Davies, Events Manager for bringing Kisa Ko to Booktopia 2017 in Manchester, Vermont.
One day Peilan (Polly) Guo does not come home from work.
As I read Leavers it brought to mind the leaves on trees; they come and go without consent, just as Ko’s characters do.Highly RecommendedLeavers is a winner and bound to be a most beloved book of 2017.
Deming Guo is a fifth grader living with his mother Polly in the Bronx.
Polly is an illegal immigrant who supports them by working at a nearby nail salon.
Ten years later, Deming is a college student named Daniel.
He has believed throughout his life that his mother has abandoned him and this has shaped his behavior.
This story evolves into the mystery regarding his mother's disappearance and how it has haunted his life.
The depiction of the emotional connection between mother and child is aided by the the flashbacks of Deming’s and Polly’s life prior to her disappearance.
In China, Polly longs for a better life – one of adventure and excitement rather than confinement and poverty.
She has a baby boy, Deming, and eventually has to extend her loan to send him back to her father in China until he is school age.When Deming returns, Polly is still living in straitened circumstances and working long hours to repay her loans.
Deming finds himself adopted into a white family in a small city outside of New York and his adolescence and young adulthood are stained with the thoughts that his mother left him behind due to something he said or did.Through recordings of his adoptive father that Deming (now known as Daniel) discovers, an interest in playing guitar becomes a passion for Daniel.
I've had a great reading year in 2017, and The Leavers is in my top favorites.Thanks to my reading friends who strongly encouraged me to read The Leavers because I never tire of books on immigrant experiences.
Forgive my idealism, but I believe this is one of those empathy-building/perspective-taking books you wish everyone would read.
Being an immigrant in a foreign country is not easy for Peilan.
Deming and Peilan, Leon and Michael; these characters will stay in my heart for a long, long time.Summer 2017 Read #21
The book itself was great in terms of subject matter and writing. The audio reader's 'everything through gritted teeth angst' took a while to see past, though.
Among them, a mother/son relationship, the plight of undocumented immigrants and their children born in the United States with all rights and privileges of citizenship denied their parents, the search for personal identity and self-worth, foster parenting and adoption, skilled writing I very much appreciated—at times—and therein was also my problem with it.
There were two narratives, each fluctuating between past and present that upset my reading groove.
Polly was a most original heroine/mother but often hard to like, as was her son Deming.
I liked the denouement, and despite the emotionally challenging subject matter, I never felt manipulated.
"I promise I'll never leave you." Deming Guo/Daniel Wilkinson has never had much stability in his life. He was born in New York to an undocumented Chinese immigrant, but was sent to live with family in China when he was only one year old. He was sent back to New York to live with his mother when he turned six. Five years later, his mother disappears without a trace. Peilan/Polly Guo left for work one morning and never returned. At the age of eleven, the people he thought were his family place h
It's important to be strong." He tries so hard to fit in, to the point of losing himself altogether: "Daniel was malleable, everyone and no one, a collector of moods, a careful observer of the right thing to say.” The issues that Deming struggles with from having few family connections and a complicated parent really resonated with me.
Will Daniel ever grow comfortable in his own skin and learn to live for himself?Over the years, he had thought about what his life would have been like if Mama and Leon hadn’t left, if Vivian hadn’t taken him to the foster care agency.
I'm not trying to reach an objective truth, here, just explain why I wasn't able to love this book the way I'd thought I was going to.The Leavers tells the story of Deming Guo, whose mother, Peilan, leaves for work one day in New York City and never comes home.
I was often frustrated by Deming, who made a series of poor decisions without much thought for the consequences, and I think this frustration was partially the point, but this character just never managed to grab me in the way I had hoped for.
The Leavers was a compelling novel that did an excellent job of putting me in the headspace of someone I don't identify with at all.
Deming Guo is adopted by a white upper-middle class couple after his mother disappears from her job one day.
The struggles of identity, trying to fit in, and coping with loss that Deming—later called Daniel—tries to navigate as he grows up in a new setting were all moving and relatable.However, I felt by the end of the novel, there was a lot of repetition and I think this book would've been better with some editing.
I wanted so much to love this book, but it fell flat for me.
The scope is too large, encompassing Deming/Daniel's childhood and his present, as well as 23 years of his mother's life.
There was no build to a climax, with the whole book feeling like one big, dark depressing weight.
I would have loved more information about Polly's experience with deportation, her efforts to find her son, and the American system that allowed Daniel/Deming to be adopted when he still had a living parent.
I don't feel happy or satisfied or educated after reading this book, and would probably not recommend it to others.
Her son Deming is born and she falls in love with him, but finds there is no way to work with him alongside of her.
He returns at age 6 and finds himself living with his mother, her boyfriend Leon, Leon's sister Vivian and Vivian's son Michael.
Kay and Peter both work at the University, have no friends in town and have strong ideas about what their son should do and be as he grows up.The novel takes off from this point, as Daniel struggles with his identity.
He recalled how she and Peter had insisted on English, his new name, the right education. How better and more hinged on their ideas of success, their plans. Mama, Chinese, the Bronx, Deming: they had never been enough. He shivered, and for a brief, horrible moment, he could see himself the way he realized they saw him - as someone who needed to be saved.  Lisa Ko's The Leavers is such a raw, honest read, a novel of alienation and identity, adoption and duality and what it means to be family, t
I'd give it 3.5 stars and round up to 4 stars: it's definitely not perfect and sometimes feels like a first novel with some pacing and structural incongruities, but the intelligence and interesting topics, plus the overall quality of the prose won me over and I'll be looking forward to Ko's future novels as well.Our main character is Deming Guo / Daniel Wilkinson, though not far behind in importance is is mother, Peilan / Polly.
In short, The Leavers wears many hats at once: a coming of age story, an immigrant story, a story of reconciling diverging parts of one's past and personality, a family epic.
We learn about Deming’s life in the Bronx where he lives in a small apartment with his mother, Peilan/Polly, her boyfriend Leon, his sister, Vivian, and her son, Michael.
Deming is eventually adopted by two well meaning professors who change his name to Daniel and try to give him a good life in a nice home in the suburbs.
He eventually goes to China to try to find his roots, his mother and eventually Leon.It isn’t until the last quarter of the book that we learn what happened to Peilan/Polly when she narrates the book in first person.
Deming Guo lives with his mom Polly, her boyfriend Leon, and his family in a cramped apartment in New York.
No longer sure of his identity, he struggles to find himself.This novel deals with some hefty subject matters: illegal immigration, race, debt, identity and abandonment.
He goes from being Deming Guo, a Chinese-American boy to Daniel, the adopted son of Kay and Peter Wilkinson.
Due to the drastic change, Deming/Daniel struggles and makes mistakes, some pretty big mistakes.
Raw, poignant, honest and intense this was a great book.The narrative of this novel is somewhat based on the real life story of Xiu Ping Jiang.
This novel is about the ones who leave, and the ones who have been left, focusing primarily on a mother and son.
There are myriad meanings to a life left behind.
A young boy, set adrift, questioning his worth, unable to find what he truly wants out of life.Catch a whiff of a bus that smells like feet, try not to breathe as you make your way up a street that reeks of 'flatulent exhaust' fumes.
I love this type of writing, but I wasn't wild about the novel overall.
Couldn't find my rhythm with the characters, and I was very ready to move on to something else.
There have been slim pickings lately on Hoopla.
This is a review of the audio because especially with this story, I suspect had a read it, I may have enjoyed it more.This story is sad and it’s a remarkably layered debut, but for me it lacked the haunting quality that allows a story to attach to the reader.
I never felt invested in the characters.
I enjoyed the development of the story but in the end, I was missing the emotional connection that most of my friends felt reading this.
One morning Deming (Daniel) Guo's Mother, Peilan (Polly) goes to work at the nail salon where she is employed and does not return.
For awhile Deming (Daniel) continues to live in the home they shared with Polly's boyfriend, his sister and her son.
She wanted the American dream of having a better life for her and her son.
Having a better life was hard as she was an undocumented Chinese immigrant.Initially no one really knows where Polly went.
She works hard at the nail salon and has no idea that one day her life will be changed forever.
This story begins with Polly Guo who when living in China became pregnant in her late teens and decided to escape to the US to avoid being forced to marry someone she didn't love and live a life she never wanted.
This book was written in a nonlinear fashion, beginning near the middle and then bouncing back and forth in time, landing in random places in the lives of the two main characters from their differing viewpoints.
But aside from those issues, it was an enriching book written simply and with fresh turns of phase that made me stop and think as the author made use of all her senses to convey life in both New York and China during that time.
Demming finds himself getting placed for adoption and with that Demming becomes Daniel Wilkinson.On the surface, a story about a mother/son relationship.
Lisa Ko brilliantly creates an all too real story in Demming and his mother Peilan.
The book switches story lines between Demming and his mother Peilan.
I struggled with connecting with these characters- they all felt surface level and I had a hard time getting to the emotional level that I should have given the situation.
I felt nothing for any of the characters and found myself rooting for none of them (always makes for a challenging read).
Book Reviewed by Stacey on www.whisperingstories.comThe leavers by Lisa Ko is ultimately a story of love, loss and finding yourself when you feel that you don’t fit in.At ten-years-old, Deming Guo has already had an eventful life.
When that becomes too much for her, she goes to the authorities where Deming is put into care and eventually adopted by white, rich couple Kay and Peter who are both professors.He is brought up as an American and even his Chinese name is changed from Deming Guo to Daniel Wilkerson.
He lost his mum and then he lost his Chinese heritage.Told from alternative viewpoints, from Peilan/Polly and Deming/Daniel, and back and forth in time.
Hard to summarize, so I'll just say this: I once read an article that stated that research indicated that the reason so many immigrants achieve amazing success in the United States is because there's a certain boldness of character required to move across the world to a foreign culture, and that this boldness serves you well in all circumstances. Polly Guo strikes me as a wonderful epitome of this theory.⭐⭐⭐⭐
Hard to summarize, so I'll just say this: I once read an article that stated that research indicated that the reason so many immigrants achieve amazing success in the United States is because there's a certain boldness of character required to move across the world to a foreign culture, and that this boldness serves you well in all circumstances. Polly Guo strikes me as a wonderful epitome of this theory.⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
My friend Adlah told me to read this book. We've been sharing books we're reading for years. Thus far she's always suggested books I loved. This book was no different.The book will drive home the experience of immigration and the effect on everyone, especially children. Beautiful book. I dare you to try and not cry at the end.
While using fiction as an escape from reality is incredibly rewarding on its own, what’s even better is when a novel’s lessons lift from the pages and inform our lives with renewed compassion.On the surface, The Leavers is a novel about a mother and son who are separated by forces more powerful than their blood bond.
It’s about immigration and cultural barriers, the promise of the American dream and the less talked about way it can devolve into an American nightmare.Deming is adopted by well-meaning but dense parents, renamed “Daniel Wilkinson” and moved from his neighborhood to a white suburb upstate, where he stands out as a minority and struggles to fit in.
