https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1178241.They_Also_Ran
An old mid-twentieth century book detailing the men who lost the races for the presidency from Henry Clay to Thomas Dewey.
Stone gives the life stories of men as diverse as McClellan and Greeley, and how the country would have been different if the election results had gone another way in each circumstance.
I don't agree with every conclusion reached (for example, I think Clay, the founder of the Whigs, would have been a better executive than Stone thought, and I think Lewis Cass would merely have been a Democratic analogue of Millard Fillmore, a forgettable antebellum footnote, had he beaten Zachary Taylor),and I wish he would have been more specific in the attributes and vices of the potential officeholders in the book, but I appreciate the effort all the same on such a noteworthy topic.
This book by Irving Stone came out in 1945 and it is a series of biographical sketches of all the men who ran and lost the presidency over our history.
Davis in 1924.Fremont was a brave man and a great explorer and his western expeditions captured the public'simagination when he did them.
Fremont ran against James Buchanan who is one of our worstpresidents, but there's nothing to suggest Fremont would have been any great improvement.William Jennings Bryan sad to say suffers from the Lawrence-Lee play Inherit The Wind about hislast public activity celebrity prosecutor of John Thomas Scopes for teaching Darwin's theory ofevolution and the debacle he made of himself under Clarence Darrow's examination.
Interesting book about the men who ran but lost the presidency from the 1940 presidential election back. Just the concept of addressing the also-rans is enough enticement to pick up this book. While it was informative, I wished at some points that Stone had given the reader more details. Also, the way he grouped people together instead of presenting them in chronological order was a bit distracting to me. However, Stone's perspective was fasinating since the book was written while the nation was still in World War II and FDR was president.
Very interesting looking at the other people that ran for the highest office in America. It is also interesting thinking about what would have been different had they won. We would live in a very different country today had some of the races gone the other way.
I had to read this one in high school but found it to be very interesting. I wonder if I would still find it interesting now, all these years later?
I learned a lot about the men who ran for the WHite House and lost. Very interesting
Mr Stone had a terrific idea in writing this book - we know far too little about many of the unsuccessful Presidential candidates.
Mr Stone set the issues of the various campaigns and built a decent understanding of many of the personalities.
He tended to voice a negative opinion about many of the candidates who today we'd label pro-business growth - he would certainly be a Bernie supporter in today's debates.
I also thought his decidedly negative treatment of Henry Clay was off base.
I would add that Mr Stone wrote his first edition of this book in 1943 and some characters have improved or declined in general historian view since then.
I found this book extremely comforting to read in the political climate of 2017. It was reassuring to read accounts of other elections that had far-reaching consequences for the country. Stone leans to the left. I'm not sure what more conservative thinkers would think of his conclusions, but I liked the way he showed that most political arguments are connected to Adams and Jefferson way back at the founding.
Interesting stories of the men who ran for president and lost! Irving Stone is a great storyteller.
Today on President's Day I thought about this book I read years ago. It is a good read pretty interesting. But one thing that struck me about it that I still remember is the irony of how we so often had two great men run against each other and also so many times had two mediocre men run against each other. Too bad we could not have had the deck shuffled differently. Anyway, for anyone interested in history I recommend it.
20 page short biographies, on the men who ran for President but lost, up until Dewey, Bios are good, but the authors biases stand out in full force and are undeserved conclusions, for instance. stone fears had WJB won he would have instituted a theocracy.
I preferred the 1945(?)edition. The 1965(?) printing included more loosers but the editing and construction wasn't and interesting.
