https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1470232.Magic_Hour
“You’re worried about my feelings.”  Yes, Kristin Hannah, you’ve probably heard that people with autism sometimes don’t outwardly recognize or acknowledge or worry about someone else’s feelings – but I have three children with autism who are very in tune with other’s feelings and who worry about them !
Interesting plot.
I struggled with the quality of the writing, the easy/awkward introduction of a romantic subplot, and the oversimplification of "small town life".
Just to start, in this book "small town life" = the REPEATED mention of who was homecoming queen 20 years ago by almost EVERY adult character in the novel, loads of uninformed gossip, the collective "best friendness" of the entire police department, etc., etc., & ...etc.
I would run to the train after work just so I can sit down and read this book, and I was so sad when it ended. A little girl raised by wolves is rescued in a small town, and she changes people's lives as she adapts to her new world. Really, really good story!!
I’m a huge fan of Kristin Hannah; WINTERS GARDEN and THE NIGHTINGALE are two of my all-time favorite novels.
Somehow I missed MAGIC HOUR the first time around, but picked it up last week from my local bookstore.
What a beautiful novel!
The characters are complex and compelling.
I read the first half of the novel in a single sitting, staying up well past my bed time and happy I did so.
I love novels with characters you genuinely care about and root for.
MAGIC HOURS captures an entire small town that feels like home.
Thank you, Hannah, for another great read!
Two sisters in small-town Washington state, a child psychiatrist and the town's police chief, try to help a six-year-old feral child.
Her sister, Ellie Barton, is an incongruous mix--a chief of police with the mentality of a "small-town beauty queen." But what made this an excruciating read was the cliche-ridden prose.
Sentences and phrases such as "listening to the surf, thinking how much it sounded like beat of her heart" "could have heard a pin drop" and "all hell broke loose." Goodness.
There's too many good books and too little time to put up with that.
Soms heb je gewoon van die dagen, zeker met dit koude weer, dat je op je vrije dag gewoon lekker in je joggingpak op de bank wilt hangen en wilt lezen..
Gisteren was zo'n dag dat ik dat wel had en ik besloot dus ook om gewoon lekker te lezen en verder niks.
Toen ik begon met lezen aan dit boek, had ik gelijk een gevoel dat ik dit boek al een keer gelezen had, ik ben in 2012 met Goodreads gestart en dit boek is van 2006 wat natuurlijk kan.
Exactly what I needed after a 970 page read - quick, easy and even a bit predictable, but with likable characters. I even found myself crying at the end. A nice beach read.
This was an excellent book. The story was sad, about a young girl who was kidnapped and taken deep into the woods. How she survived, and what happens to her when she re-enters society. Kristin Hannah is one of my favorite Authors....this is one of her best.
Nunca tinha lido nada sobre "crianças selvagens" e esta é uma história muito interessante tanto ao nível da psicologia infantil e o modo como é possível "civilizar" uma criança, mas também ao nível das questões emocionais. A lição desta autora é transversal aos seus outros romances: o amor cura todas as feridas, por mais profundas que sejam. Até agora foi o meu preferido desta autora.
I am really liking Kirsten Hannah!
After reading Firefly Lane, my mom reccomended this book.
It was good, the ending was the best part in that it made me cry and cry.
I love when a book; someone's written thoughts; makes you so moved, that you laugh, cry, get mad at a character.
I was very pleased with how Alice's character came out though.
Other than that, this book delivers a great story that I read as quickly as I could with two kids!
I would reccomend it - definately.
OKay, I cried like a baby - Great characters, loved it!
After reading my second book by Hannah he is at the top of my must read list. I can't wait to get my hands on more of her books. I can read them in one sitting and love every word she writes.
Duyduğum kadarıyla yazarın tüm kitaplarını okuyanların en sevdiği kitapların başında geliyor ve kesinlikle benim de yazardan favorilerimden biri oldu.
Aslında bu kadar çok beğeneceğimi düşünmemiştim çünkü Kızkardeşler Arasında ve Gerçek Renkler kitaplarını çok harika bulamayıp, yazardan okuyan diğer okurlar gibi artık bir zamandan sonra özellikle de kardeşlik konularını benzer olaylar üzerinden yazdığına kanaat getirmiştim.
Ayrıca yazarın Ellie'yi abla yapmasına da anlam veremedim çünkü ikili arasında her zaman yaşça büyük olup abla gibi olan Julia'ydı.
Julia ve Alice'in arasında geçenleri okumak çok ama çok güzeldi.
O kızın günden güne Julia'ya alışması, onsuz yaşayamayacak hale gelmesi ve aralarında doğan anne kız ilişkisini yazar mükemmel yansıtmıştı.
Magic Hour by Kristin Hannah is a well researched, beautiful read about a "wolf girl". This emotional read has many heart tugging moments. The characters (Julia, Ellie, Max and Cal ) of this book are equally interesting as they each experience self growth, family bonds and love. The reader experiences all of Alice's physical, mental and spiritual growth. This book will keep you engaged until the last page. 4 stars
Este livro é tão comovente, tocou-me bastante a estória desta menina.Como e que um ser humano é capaz de tanta maldade, capaz de tornar uma criança sem sentimentos e esquecer o que e ser humano.Um luta de amor , coragem e muita paixão, uma narrativa que mexeu comigo.Realmente um momento mágico, e que recomendo para ler nesta época que se aproxima para nos lembrar do que nos faz humanos e do que precisamos para viver , Amor muito amor.
Kristin Hannah has written a lot of books, but this is the only one I've really been drawn to reading (the others seem like they would make me really ragey or really sad).
The one book from this author I want to read and my sister just happens to have a brand new copy?
I absolutely loved her.Ellie Cates, Rain Valley's sheriff, was an ass, too, but it was obvious her character was meant to be self-absorbed in that way.
Usually I'd be yelling, "OMG, get back to the freaking story!" but I didn't even think about it reading this book.I was left with some lingering questions, (view spoiler)[What happened with Julia's reputation, or George's?
A little slow-going but very enjoyable.
This book deals with a lot of interesting or thought provoking topics: responsibility of psychologists, love after divorce, second chances, going home, parenting, "wild child" (as in a child raised outside of society rather than a hippie or something), kidnapping, media, dangers of ignorant judgment, drunk driving, rights of biological parenting, etc.
(If you want to borrow my copy, all of the swear words are crossed out!) I also did not like that while strong marriages were shown (for example Peanut and her husband) (her name is really Penelope Nutter), and in general it was shown how important parents are, I did not like that sex outside of marriage was shown as pretty much the norm.
However, the writing just isn't that good.
I felt like the author was imitating what she imagined was powerful, emotional writing.
(Man I sound like a book snob, don't I?)To be fair, I don't think I would have read this if it wasn't our book club pick.
I think the fact that the back cover is a giant photo of the author is a clear indication of what kind of book this is and I would have put it right back down.
It's just that with so many books in the world, I wished I spent these few hours on something else.
I was so afraid the author would ruin the book for me with a sad ending; but, although it had it's heart-wrenching moments, I was smiling as I read the last page.
(after crying for several pages before though lol)Right now I have 4 stars marked...but I'm seriously considering changing that to 5.
I think what is holding me back is the sadness of the story, how difficult it is to read about children being mistreated.
However, as I continue to debate this in my mind, I think the author presented such an upsetting subject in a very unique and tolerable way.
I think I will change that rating to a 5 star.
Wonderful! A surprising tale of a little girl found alone, an ostracized child psychologist who comes home to help her, the homecoming-queen-turned-cop sister, the flirtatious and wildly handsome doctor who has lost a lot in his past and a quirky town who stands by them all amidst a nationwide media frenzy. Everyone wants to know more about this little girl and the renowned-turned-shunned (and misunderstood) physchologist who is committed to helping her. This story is filled with heartache, love lost and found, growing and learning about themselves, and sticking together as a community to protect their own. Lovely, lovely story!
Riveting, as are most of Hannah's books. But I thought the ending was a little rushed and a little fake. It wasn't my favorite Kristin Hannah read but it was still okay.
Shrouded by mystery it soon becomes apparent that she has been subjected to significant cruelty that has left her mute and animalistic.Two women try to help her, Ellie the local police chief who is trying to track her family and Julia a recently disgraced child psychiatrist.
Not only do these two women carry a lot of baggage they are sisters who have grown apart.
Can this child bring them back together, or blow them further apart.The characters in the book are wonderful and I shed quite a few tears for this child and what she has to endure.
Lindo!!!!! Mais um livro da Kristin onde as emoções e os sentimentos são o mais importante!!!!!!!!
Julia is a brilliant, dedicated, work-obsessed child psychologist in Los Angeles.
Ellie meanwhile, in the small town where nothing ever happens, is called to deal with a small child found up in a tree, terrified and growling.
Police Chief Ellie and Dr. Max Cerrasin realize fairly quickly that this particular girl, possibly five or six years old, has been restrained, malnourished, possibly abused.
Ellie quickly calls her sister Julia, who is grateful for a chance to escape her agonizing new life.
Working with Alice changes and enriches the whole town especially those closely involved with her teachings and care.
(view spoiler)[Claro que tinha de acabar bem, como já conheço a autora, sabia que ia acabar bem, mas ainda me fartei de chorar quando a juíza disse para Julia que ela já sabia o que ia acontecer, com a Alice a dizer, à maneira dela, que ama Julia, quando George a levou, os pensamentos da Alice a pensar que era má...Afinal, estava certa no meu palpite que George talvez não fosse tao mau.
Apesar de tudo, teve um gesto bonito em reconhecer, finalmente, que era melhor a pequena ficar com Julia.
E foi tão bem ver a Alice ir para a escolinha, a falar muito melhor.
Forte! Maravilhoso.
An engaging novel about a discredited child psychologist, and a "wild" child.
Julia is called home after the appearance of a young girl who emerges from the woods with only a wolf as a companion.This book kept me captivated but I rated it four stars because of some aspects of the portrayal of the little girl (Alice) who had been living wild.
But it is a novel not a scientific treatise.
This is an older novel of Hannah's and after her success with The Nightingale ( for some reason the insert book feature isn't working), this was rereleased.
Simplesmente lindo
Bambaska bir romandi..Mahvetti beni...
