https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10631.Sam_Walton
This book is his personal and business story and I Highly recommended it!My 14 yr.
old son and I listened to the audio version and it was fantastic!
Lots of neat comments from his family, top Wal-Mart employees and others regularly interspersed in his story.The book was never boring and seemed quite fair.
My only regret is that it took me about 15-18 years from the time that my wife recommended it to me, till I actually got the audio version and listened to it.
Sam Walton was definitely the O.G. of retail.
I enjoyed reading about his journey, his hard work and customer-first mentality, and how Wal-Mart completely changed the face of retail.
There wasn't a lot of personal detail here, it was more a biography of Wal-Mart, kind of like how Walter Isaacson's book was more a biography of Apple than of Steve Jobs.
The tone of the book is informal, kind of folksy, like he's talking to you, with many bits with people who had worked with Sam Walton over the years.
Good read, I recommend it.
There were some things about Sam Walton and his story that I loved: his enthusiasm, his drive, his sense of humor; and yet there were other things in the book or about his character that puzzled me.
For example, the Wal-Mart culture that he repeatedly paints a picture of in the book sounds pretty phenomenal-- an environment of friendliness, down-home/small-town atmosphere, and creativity-- but I can't really say I've felt that vibe from my shopping experiences there.
When is enough, enough?Regardless of these points, this book left me with an incredible admiration for what Sam Walton was able to accomplish in the retail world.
Taking the book Sam Walton: Made in America off the shelf I started reading it and I was in for a surprise.
A unique thing that I liked about this book is that every chapter started with either a little quote or story from someone that worked with Sam Walton whether it was his family or the first manager that he had hired.
Sam Walton is just one of those authors that can somehow take his life story and make it to where people want to read it with vivid language and details.
The book of Sam Walton, founder of Wall-Mart, is classic biography book of very successfull businessman.
Attitude of Sam to his subordinates and the corporate culture of support in he company, i.e. if he discovered that there is a manager in the company who is not communicative to his team, the one would be dismissed shortly...3.
Confidence of Sam in his success from the times of his childhood...
4.The culture of Wall-Mart assumed constant change and development...
Wall is quoting Rockfeller - Any right is responsibility, any opportunity is liability, any ownership is debt...
Great book! It was great to learn from the man himself on how he built one of the world's largest and most powerful corporations, from scratch!Liked it so much that I actually used it as a source in my book, Thrive: 30 Inspirational Rags-to-Riches Stories.
Take aways from this autobiography:Understood the value of a dollar, grew up during the depression.
Made sure all his businesses also understood the value of a dollar.
He found what worked and doubled-down.He accepted and then moved past his failures quickly.He spoke to everyone he could in the industry, and took intense notes (he obviously learned best by writing).
He accepted changes to his operations as necessary, but the driver to those changes was his overall vision and values, which never faltered.Although he looks back thinking what he did was best overall for everyone, he definitely put his business ahead of his family.
If I had to summarize the book into top 3 lessons this is what it would look like:1.
Be passionate about learning, Sam Walton learned so much from people around him, his co-workers and from all his competition and it was one of the key elements of his success.2.
So the lesson here is never expect things to go perfect from the first try, persist until you get it right!There's much more in the book and these are just my top 3 things.
Sam Walton is a great inspiration and I consider myself fortunate to be able to get access to his book, it's really amazing.
I think Wal-mart has changed a lot from when Sam Walton first envisioned the store. I believe the founder was more of a home-spun character and sadly it seems to me that although employing many people the store has turned into a heartless monster.
Being an employee at Wal-Mart now for almost three years I knew this is a book I wanted to read.
To help you understand was an amazing success story Wal-Mart is I have included a quote from the book below:As everybody today knows, Wal-Mart's stock performance, and the wealth it has created, is a story in itself.
Just fifteen years ago [this book was published in 1992], the market value of the company was around $135 million; today it's over $50 billion.
It paid off beyond any of our dreams.If you want to know more about Wal-Mart and/or just enjoy reading about companies then this would be a good read for you!
A brilliant tale of a startup which went on to become the largest company by revenue.
The basic philosophies which Sam Walton brought into his retail and discount chains business has been a driving force behind this change.
Another was flying his plane around scouting for places to start new stores.As far as the book is considered, it's a tale of a company that has changed the way retails has done all around the world.
Even though its an auto-biography of Sam Walton, its more or less a story about Walmart, just like his life.
I would recommend this book for all startup enthusiasts.
И даже не только за то, что но и его компания Wal-Mart не однократно возглавляли рейтинги таких журналов как Fortune.
А скорее за профессионализм, упорство, целеустремленность и его необычный юмор.Уолтон тот человек, который кажется именно из-тех, кто рождается предпринимателем, а не становится им.
Это тот предприниматель, который добился превращения своего первого небольшого универсама в огромною мировую ритейл империю из более чем 10000 точек продаж в 27 странах мира.И хотя Сэма с 1992 года уже нет с нами, эта книга осталась, чтобы передать его опыт, ценности и секреты ведения бизнеса, а также для того, чтоб вдохновлять людей на высокие достижения.
Fantastic book.
I would recommend this to anybody who wants to start their own business or reach for any big goal.
To get too focused on that is to miss out on a book full of wisdom by an interesting, humble character.
There are lessons one can learn here about both business and life in general, and it's all written in a very simple style that flows easily and is a pleasure to read.
I really didn't know what to think when I picked up this book.
I need to learn more about business and needed a break from text books, so I decided to try it.
Excellent book.
It is one of the best books you can read. In this book you can learn some "universal" principles of success, like: Work hard, have mentors, learn of your mistakes, failure is a good thing, love your job, give value to the universe and break the rules !
Great book about how Sam Walton started Wal-Mart and the various challenges they had in the early days.
Because the way management treats the associates is exactly how the associates wilk treat the customers."The real money is made with the repeat customerTake care of your people, treat them well, involve them, and you won't spend all your time and money hiring labor lawyers to fight the unionsIf you are good to people, and fair with them, and demanding of them, they will eventually decide you are on their sideRunning your business as an open book allows you to create trust between you and your employees; get people involved, share information, and make them feel responsible for their actionsBe appreciative for the things that are being done rightCh.10: Stepping backWalmart focused on the basics: keeping their costs down, teaching the associates to take care of their customers, and working hard.Turn each disaster into an opportunity.
So he put his head down, concentrated on serving the customer with the best prices, treated his employees like partners, replicated business trends when he he had to and left his competition in the dust in the process.
Which for him was the lowest prices at quality - He thought at the store level.
Not the aggregate/regional level; even with thousands of stores - He realized that when you discount, your sales go up proportionally more than your decrease in margin; and used the concept masterfully Recommended reading for those starting a business
Многие думают, что это Сэм Уолтон открыл формат дисконтной торговли и, создавая магазины в небольших городах, за счёт этого построил самую большую розничную сеть в мире.
Чудес не бывает.
Конкуренция была и не слабая.
Из книги видно, как много надо было работать, сколько всего внедрить и трудностей преодолеть, чтобы построить великую компанию.
Хотя Уолтон написал книгу в начале 90-х, в ней много инструментов, которые будут работать и сейчас и не только в розничном бизнесе.
В конце 10 правил ведения бизнеса от Уолтона и немного философских размышлений о смысле жизни.Кстати, это одна из любимых книг Джефа Безоса - основателя Amazon.
Beautiful!
Wish could give this book a 7 star rating (7 out of 5); it just would be incorrect mathematically ;-)The old saying goes: a dying man never lies.Mr. Sam Walton has done everyone a huge favor by writing this book, especially those in retail industry.
Pretty brave in expressing his views and venturing into areas where nobody would think of going - discounting in small towns with such a less population and then attracting crowds from neighboring towns.
He found wisdom and pursued a life he believed in till the very last days.Worth owning a copy and re-reading it.
Que un libro que habla del mundo empresarial no se parezca mucho a los "manuales" de los MBA es normal y que ese libro esté escrito por uno de los grandes empresarios del siglo XX tampoco sorprende. Como siempre, la teoría por un lado y la realidad por otro. Lectura muy recomendable para aquellos que nadan contracorriente, da igual la época, y da igual el sector de actividad. Si te la coges con papel de fumar, tampoco lo leas.
"Chiến lược buôn bán của chúng tôi là thu hút nhứng khách hàng bằng cách bán cho họ hàng hoá có chất lượng cao nhất với giá thấp nhất có thể.
Đó là hiệu quả" Sam Walton quả là một con người đầy đam mê và nhiêtj huyết, sinh ra để trở thành doanh nhân của bán lẻ,làm việc một cách tận tuỵ , đam mê, sáng tạo và luôn luôn tiến lên phía trước với sự lạc quan và hài hước nhất.
Quả là người đàn ông tuyệt vời !
Ai đang làm trong ngành bán lẻ thì đây sẽ là cuốn sách phải đọc
Don’t believe the bullshit you hear about people and companies. Find out about them for yourself.You won’t be disappointed by this one.
Like other biographies, sometimes the story is lost in the authors thoughts. In the case of Sam Walton, thats great because you can see how his minds work. He talks a lot about Walmart and its philosophy, which is closely connected to his own. The fact that the book was written on a final stage of his life made the content more profound.
A great way to finish my 2017 reading year.So many insights into retail - def one of the best books I've read this year. Highly recommended.
One of the best books I have ever read. Parked it for the second time read sometime next year. Street smartness at its best! Not for those who love framework based consulting approaches to tackle simple problems in life. Wonderful principles on Value/discounted retailing.
And he believed that he can make a difference in retailing business bycopying ideas from other retailers.The important thing about Sam Walton in his book is his family, and friends thatsupported him.
He achieved the level of success that people can’t even imagine.And he was smart enough to divide it up to his family for tax purposes that’s why he never wasin top of the forbes list of richest man on the world.This book was written as an autobiography and kinda nonfiction.
I said kinda nonfictionbecause there are lots of practical, and strategies that anybody can apply it in business, or life.This book was made in the USA, as it says Sam Walton made in America.
While not as captivating as some of the other bios I recently read, it was enjoyable and told a story of an incredible businessman who was otherwise quiet and non-self-promotional. I didn't know much about Sam Walton or how he built Wal-Mart, so I learned a lot here.A few notes I took away: * Exercising ego in public is not the way to build an effective organization * No partnerships - too risky (Helen Robson Walton has bad past experiences with these) * Bought 1st store at 27. Didn't know how t
I didn't know much about Sam Walton or how he built Wal-Mart, so I learned a lot here.A few notes I took away:	* Exercising ego in public is not the way to build an effective organization	* No partnerships - too risky (Helen Robson Walton has bad past experiences with these)	* Bought 1st store at 27.
* Brought in COO to instill processes - needed to control his operations in order to scale and prepare for coming of computers	* Also went to "IBM School for Retailers" - impressed the head SME for retailing there, brought him on as a mentor	* Profit sharing - carrot that pulled Wal-Mart forward	* Regular company-wide Saturday morning meetings - important to culture and financial/operational tracking.
Retail has much lower profit margins than software; but Walmart still earns more profit than Google and Microsoft combined, although not more than Apple.So looking at the numbers alone, the free market has declared Sam Walton a better entrepreneur than Bill Gates or Larry Page, and on more-or-less even footing with Steve Jobs.He's got a rustic, downhome tone in his writing that hardly fits with what one might expect from one of the greatest business moguls of all time.
Wal-Mart’s iconic founder tells all (well, most)Wal-Mart is not just a gigantic retail company.
It is the ultimate retailing juggernaut, setting the bar for products, packaging and pricing, and demolishing its competitors.
Given its staggering influence, some would say Wal-Mart has become the very embodiment of retailing.
The personality of Wal-Mart’s late founder, Sam Walton, is still a driving force, a source of homespun, countrified wisdom and old-fashioned common sense.
In this engaging autobiography, Walton explains how he built his mammoth corporation from a small five-and-dime store in Bentonville, Arkansas.
getAbstract recommends this colorful, entertaining book by America’s ultimate entrepreneur.
This is an autobiographical account of Wal Mart's rise to the pinnacle of the American retail business, the personal reminiscences of the late billionaire retailer are combined with dozens of interviews with Sam Walton's family and friends which makes it really interesting.
This tells the story of the greatest retailer of all time which started post world war II.
It is amazing to see how he approached his work which was his biggest passion in life.
He started with a small Variety Store and went on to build the biggest retail/discount store chain in the world.
