https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/680042.Drawing_on_the_Artist_Within
If you have ever said or thought, "I can't draw for shit," or envied someone with that "natural artistic ability," READ THIS BOOK.
Edwards breaks down the mythical assumption that creativity and artistic talent are gifts one must be born with.
The exercises and techniquess she suggests provide a means for the adverage person (in her argument, the potential artist), and as well as the experiened artist (in whatever medium) to shift more freely back and forth between right and left brained thought, and are meant to make creators more aware of the significance of such shifts, the advantages provided by each side, and the limits each suggests.
I found this book much more interesting than Drawing on the Right Side of the BrainI love the insights to our innate ability of how to express emotions with lines.
This wonderful inner knowing we possess.I've used bits and pieces of this book in art classes I've taught.
Don't know what it means, but I think it touches on the wonderful coincidences in life.And that's there are lots of things we don't fully understand.To me this book touches on the magical power of creativity and self expression.
This book and "Drawing On the Right Side Of the Brain" are highly recommended because of the benefits you'll get from the exercises. Every so called non-artist who is interested in doing art should get these books immediately.
Excellent book that I read in part and then completed my first portrait sketches. They turned out beautifully as others have told me.
Don't like this one as much as her other book , but is still pretty good. Out of the technical aspects of drawing and into more of the experimental aspects of art.
A book to inspire the artist within.True to the title, the aim of this piece of literature is to get non-artists their start in expression of the mind, and to trained, tried and true artists to assist in understanding their own mind and innate known concepts.
It provides much insight into the nature of visual arts and it's AMAZING accessibility to every person, regardless from where they attain their beginnings.
It also has great project ideas; anyone can teach themselves to draw, this book is here - it must be used.
"There are times, after all, when one word is worth a thousand pictures." - Don Dame, CSULB Arts Professor
Perhaps the best book on drawing for non-artists. It empowers you to draw regardless of talent, experience or lack of both. I'm not an artist and don't aspire to become one but as a creative person, I wanted to try my hand at art. This book was recommended by an American friend and it was amazing. Like a self-help course in art. I haven't seen the new edition but I'm told it's even better. Highly recommended.
Nathan Goldstein Art of Responsive Drawing, ThePhilip S. Rawson The Art of Drawing: An Instructional GuideRudolph Arnheim Visual ThinkingFred Dubery Perspective And Other Drawing Systems
I approached this book as a business manager and professor for my research on the topic of creativity.
A mixed of literary review, student exercise book and phd paper on the topic of drawing, learning to draw and (how to instill more) creativity in personal and professional projects.
The basic idea is "seeing differently" and that learning perceptual skills -like those used in the artistic language- can help with the challenge.
After reading and learning by doing about the right side of our brain -the R Mode so beautifuly introduced by the professor- I feel like I know a bit more of my seeing abilities.
Not what I thought it would be. Too much student work in a book about creativity and design thinking for me. The student’s progress is noteworthy but the abundance of examples seems unnecessary. Would have loved more discussion on the five stages of discovery.
3.5 stars. Some of the ideas were very interesting regarding literacy and the necessity of including visual literacy. The book made me think but I can’t say my after drawings were any better than my before.
Decent, but slow.
I bought it after the paperback copy I lend to a friend never came back.
My old paperback copy had notes all over it, and some of the exercises I drew right on the page.
For the eBook version, I don't recommend it.
If I had bought it first as an eBook, I probably would have given it two stars.
AS A NOTE: I only really skimmed the eBook version.
When I had it as a paper book, I worked through all the exercise and it took me several months, as I gently worked through it.Four stars.
I hope the library has a copy or the bookstore even. I always wanted to tap that INNER TALENT (AHEM!!!) (as if!) Kidding aside, I can draw but the creativity level hasn't been really develop or pursue when I was in my teens. Curse puberty when the boy next door or two seats away from you has been mostly the apple of a girl's eyes! (I wonder why he didn't give me any inspiration to sketch him.) 0_oNow I know what to ask for Christmas. :D
I enjoy this book a piece at a time. not one I just read through . just take parts and see how it effects me
Thinking like an artist is hard work. Drawing and thinking like an artist is harder, but this book has given me a good start on my way to becoming a great illustrator of Children's books.
It will simply make you beleive you can draw as good as you can read and write. The wisdom behind it is to beleive in yourself and disbeleive in Myth created by people.
After doing art lessons for the past 8 years, I've been rereading this book and have acquired some new insights on learning to draw and paint. I appreciate this book even more!
Drawing
Pretty sure there's nothing I liked here that isn't in "Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain." Some really unpleasant, unprovable ideas posited here. I abandoned a bit over halfway through.
Great exercises to help me understand what's going on inside.
Not as good as "Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain". She goes into a little more depth, but sometimes I think she loses it.
Very helpful for my work as an Art Therapist.
