https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30036.Elric_of_Melnibon_
He is hardly an inexperienced enough author to explain to us that which is already self-evident, but it is a weakness in his delivery which sometimes takes us out of the flow of the story, so that we must step back from the world and listen to Moorcock talk about it, though he does do his best to veil it with Elric's thoughts.Secondly, it can be difficult to get a strong impression of his characters, they are often difficult to sympathize with or to predict.
It was a nice surprise to learn that in the never ending, multi-dimensional cosmic dust up between the Lords of Order and the Lords of Chaos, Elric's people, the Melniboneans, are aligned with the bad guys at Chaos and are viewed by the pesky, upstart humans as evil, a perception that has considerable merit.
This sets up one of the fundamental themes of the book as Elric struggles with his identity and his place in a society in which he does not feel fully at home.As with The Swords Trilogy, Moorcock's writing is lush and lyrical without being long-winded.
I have always detested Michael Moorcock.As a fantasy reader whose passion for Tolkien’s writing knows no boundaries, I have always had a hard time swallowing the venomous spite and blind arrogance with which he’s been denouncing the champion of my fantasy dreams.
But I think part of me also grudgingly admitted (subconsciously) that there has to be a certain level of awesomeness to a fantasy author writing lyrics for Hawkwind and Blue Öyster Cult.So I read Elric of Melnibonë.
And I can hardly wait to read more about the albino emperor of Melnibonë.I will probably never like Moorcock.
Elric of FREAKIN’ Melnibone.A supersized but colorless everlasting gobstopper of fantasy have-at-you.If he were a mongoose, he’d be Elrici-tiki-tavi.If he were a professional wrestler (pronounced RASTLER in Memphis) he’d be Elric Flair - Wooooooooooooo!If he were an amateur bowler in California and part time brother Shamus he’d be El Ricerino (and only if we were not into the whole brevity thing.)If he were anything other than Michael Moorcock’s magnificent Man of Melnibone he’d be a calorie deficient, sorcery and drugs addicted, disabled inbred monarch on a cold seat.He is Elric.“Conan!
What is best in life?”“To crush enemy, see him driven before you, to hear the lamentation of the vomen, and to never have to mess with that white guy with the bigass black sword.”You’re damn skippy, Conan.
This is some epic awesomeness.I'm an absolute sucker for the grand sweeping personal quests to gain more and yet more magical power in the service of rescuing your one true love, casting aside morals, the greater good, your own health, and possibly your own sanity.
This is easily one of the classics of all Sword and Sorcery and I knew that people swore by it before I read it, but I was hesitant.
I love the story.It's really cool that I've finally read something, after all this time, that evokes the same feeling as I get from the classic Star Wars films.
Elric is the sickly descendant of a haughty alien race, a long line of amoral conquerors and wielders of magic.
Many of his nobles—including his cousin, the accomplished magician Yrkoon—do not think the young emperor is fit for his high task.
He is soon challenged by a pirate fleet from The Young Kingdoms, and the threats that that arise from this challenge soon endanger not only the princess Cymoril but the throne of the Dragon Isle itself.This is an excellent beginning to a first rate series, a series which showed me fantasy could offer alien and uncomfortable beauties, hard pleasures far removed from the comforts of Professor Tolkien’s snug shire.
This is the tale of when Elric was a king, the commander of dragons, fleets and all the folk of that half-human race which had ruled the world for ten thousand years.This is a tale of tragedy, this tale of Melnibone, the Dragon Isle.
The epic begins by introducing the reader to the young emperor of 'Imrryr the Beautiful, the Dreaming City, capital of the Dragon Isle of Melnibone.', our future guide through the histories, races and sights of a hundred worlds or more.
This is THE classic sword and sorcery tale that came about in the early 1960s. Note that I am referencing when Elric first appeared which was in Moorcock’s novella, "The Dreaming City" (Science Fantasy #47, June 1961 (Wiki).Note that this is one of my early reviews so the format is different.  CONCEPT: Very interesting. This one was done in the 60s before there were a lot of Sci fi/Fantasy writers. Moorcock is definitely one of the older writers and his works range in quality though fortunately
Antagonists; (2) it dealt in an unknown world where there were lots of cool planar areas; (3) Elric was somewhere between good and evil; and (4) the swords and context of the storyline were actually quite well done.SCORING: Superb (A), Excellent (A-), Very good (B+), Good (B) Fairly Good (B-) Above Average (C+), Mediocre (C ), Barely Passable (C-) Pretty Bad (D+), Dismal (D), Waste of Time (D-), Into the Trash (F)DIALOGUE: B+ STRUCTURE: A- HISTORY SETTING: B+ CHARACTERS: A- EVIL SETUP/ANTAGONISTS: B+ EMOTIONAL IMPACT: B; SURPRISES: B+ MONSTERS: A PACING: A- THE LITTLE THINGS: A OVERALL STYLE: A- FLOW OF WORDS: B+ CHOICE OF FOCUS: A- TRANSITIONS/FLASHBACKS/POV: B COMPLEXITY OF WORDS/SYMBOLISM/THEMES: A- OVERALL GRADE: B plus to A- DIALOGUE: Dialogue was pretty good.
From what I understand the author tried to create something different from The Lord of the Rings; at the time this book was published the majority of fantasy genre consisted of The Lord of the Rings clones.
For this reason he is not liked much and the majority of his people believe his cousin Yyrkoon would make a better (read - more traditional) Emperor.
Yyrkoon is a very ambitious man who would make everything in his power to put himself on the throne.I already said everything about this book: this is a classic, and it is different kind of fantasy.
You know, I kept seeing Moorcock's Elric stories referred to by authors I enjoyed greatly as being totally inspirational and important to the beginnings of "New Weird" fiction (which is what people who write Urban Fantasy but want to be taken seriously call their work).
It's not that I'm dulled because other people have done bits and pieces of this kind of thing since they were written, so there's an impact that I'm incapable of getting, it's just that all of this isn't done particularly well.
There was a time when (back in the '70s and '80s) when the Eternal Champion books were a "must read" among fantasy readers/fans.
Lancer books and few others "discovered" the market and we (fantasy readers) began to find interesting reads.
The Amber books by Zelazny, The Eternal Champion books by Moorcock, reprints of Robert E.
Howard's works, also reprints of things like Lord Dunsany, Hope Mirrlees and others.Now I'm not a fan of all Moorcock's works, I'm not even a fan of all the books peripherally connected to the Eternal Champion cycle but some of them are really not to be missed by fantasy fans.
He’s a brooding and contemplative scholar, which makes him dull at parties.Some people think Elric is a demon — he sure looks like one — and many of his subjects would prefer to have the throne of Melniboné occupied by Elric’s charismatic cousin Yyrkoon who looks and acts like a leader should.
This is likely to be unsatisfying to some readers, but I enjoyed the quick pace and appreciated Elric’s introspective concerns about his duties.I listened to Audio Realms’ production of Elric of Melniboné.
I tend to dislike fantasy books whose language is flowery, whose characters are coarse and papery, and whose plots are obviously constructions of the authors to be used with appropriately puppet-like characters.
But my friend liked this story, so I said I'd read it.
For example, you have this scene where Elric is drowning and a vision "came unbidden to his dying mind." Later, when describing the vision, Elric announced, "It came unbidden to my dying mind." Waiiiiit, did the character read the narration of his near-death?
Michael, seriously, your characters can't have read your book!
I have this feeling that my luck is none too good. This sword here at my side don’t act the way it should. Keeps calling me it’s master, but I feel like it’s slave.Hauling me faster and faster to an early, early grave.And it howls! It howls like hell!  "Black Blade" by Blue Öyster Cult, lyrics by Michael MoorcockHow many authors do you know who gets to write lyrics for a song based on his book to be record by a legendary metal band? Elric has to be just about the coolest most bad ass mofo in th
Elric is armed with an accursed soul sucking black sword called Stormbringer, a weapon so fearsome Excalibur would want to put a restraining order on it.Considering the gargantuan length of your average fantasy epic these days it is amazing how much plot, characterization and action Moorcock managed to squeeze into less than 200 pages.
The plot of this book is like Games of Thrones on speed and the end is a beginning for many more adventures to come.Elric is one of Michael Moorcock's Eternal Champions, essentially one hero in different versions protecting parallel universes.
Most Eternal Champions books do not have to be read in order but as far as Elric is concerned this one is the best starting point.
Tenía una deuda de catorce años con este libro, pero hasta hace poco pude echarle mis garras encima.
Siempre me imaginé que sería una historia bastante buena y que entraría rápidamente en mis favoritos.
Elric es uno de los personajes más interesantes que he leído, y conforme fui avanzando las páginas y desarrollándolo más me di cuenta de que sí, en efecto, es uno de mis favoritos (es un claro anti-héroe, viva por siempre).
Su historia, su aventura, parece en un inicio simple y sin sentido (aunado al hecho de que la narrativa es sencilla, nada tediosa ni muy descriptiva), pero luego se va revelando todo el trasfondo terrible.
I read this about 20 years ago and decided to pick it up again.
I think I liked it a bit better this time because I can better see all of the neat elements that Moorcock put into the world of Elric.
Elemental lords, Chaos gods, and the war between Law and Chaos are just a few of the worldbuilding elements that really made this work shine.
I still can't give it five stars, however, because Elric has got to be one of the dumbest protagonists in fantasy literature.
I mean, how many times do you let someone try to murder you before you finally kill them?
A sickly emperor with a demon possessed sword14 April 2011 This was one of the earlier fantasy books that does not fall into what I consider the fantasy genre I term as 'Lord of the Rings wannabe's'. Elric is not a hero nor is he on a quest to save the world. In fact, while not going out of his way to destroy the world, the character of Elric would be more at home as a villain than as the central character of a fantasy series. But this is what Elric is, and these stories, originally published as
A sickly emperor with a demon possessed sword14 April 2011	This was one of the earlier fantasy books that does not fall into what I consider the fantasy genre I term as 'Lord of the Rings wannabe's'.
In fact, while not going out of his way to destroy the world, the character of Elric would be more at home as a villain than as the central character of a fantasy series.
He is an emperor, and a sickly one at that, and his enemies surround him simply to destroy him and take his power.
Definitivno se čita dalje,cak cu pokušati da pronadjem svih 12 romana na engleskom.I živo me zanima koje su zo delove iz originala izbacili u prevodu na srpski.Vidi se izmedju poglavlja da postoji neslaganje priča na jednom mestu.
The plot set up thusly, things get pretty weird and wild with awesome sentient magic swords and stuff like that.I'm not sure if I'd call this particularly gritty when compared to masters of gruesome like Martin or Abercrombie--people might get their genitalia lopped off for effect, but they're not gonna be subjected to months of prolonged torture and isolation on top of that.
If I remember right, this one was only like 150-160 pages--but even with that short length you get a totally filling fantasy story with plenty of the stuff we like like worldbuilding, characters, atmosphere and invention.
Peccati eburnei Una scrittura efficace, dai tratti quasi lisergici, fa da cornice ad Elric di Melniboné, tra i massimi personaggi di cui il genere fantasy può fregiarsi.Il protagonista acquisisce sfaccettature non banali con l'incedere dei racconti; meno efficace la miriade di personaggi che orbitano attorno all'antieroe, dipinti alla stregua di macchiette.L'abuso di deus ex machina - spesso con la sgradevole controindicazione di stritolare il libero arbitrio - non vanno ad intaccare, almeno per il momento, l'indubbio fascino dell'ambientazione in cui si muove l'eburneo l'antieroe.
Elric struggles with a type of morality at the head of a people who most certainly don’t; long time adherents to chaos gods are the people of Melnibone and years of unquestioned superiority has them holding their heads high.
But his search for morality seems less about a care for people underneath and more about controlling his own life and steering a new path for Melnibone; long lost in its own arrogance.Example?
With his albinism and reliance on a cocktail of drugs to keep his strength he is considered weak by his own people; a race completely sure of their superiority and unsure of the weak blood they perceive Elric to have.
I realy wanted to like this book.*SPOILERS*I was hearing the usual things that everyone hears about Elric : it's supposed to be the birth of dark fantasy, its hero is complex and morally ambiguous, there are adult themes, and so on, and so forth.
And I found almost nothing to like about this book.The characters were worse than two dimensional : the fragile princess that gets to be rescued, the evil moustache-twirling cousin, the noble right-hand man, and Elric himself, a brooding, relentlessly emo hero with no likeable features about him whatsoever.
Quite a fast paced story, rather short and not overly detailed, it takes us into the decadent and violent land of Melniboné, where sorcerers live side by side with dragons and demons of higher and lower planes.
They used to rule the world, but now they are slowly becoming extinct.Their rather outsiderish emperor Elric, who's a red eyed albino with weak health and pacifistic ideas, and who's also an avid reader and a powerful sorcerer, is trying to make some positive, in his opinion, change in his kingdom.
For readers of course.
At least to some point ("some point" is last chapter, if you read it then you know).
I read this one years ago.
Having not read any of the Eternal Champion volumes for a long time it sort of "reminded me" how much I liked many of them.This short book serves as a sort of "intro" to the entire Elric saga and we get a look at much of the character Mr. Moorcock was building for Elric (and I'd forgotten how annoying Elric could be).This (these actually as it applies to the Elric series) is a book I'd recommend for anyone who likes high fantasy or epic fantasy.
A good read and this was a well done audio with an into by Moorcock himself.
In which Elric fights off his cousin's usurpation, first strikes a deal with Arioch and other higher powers, meets Rackhir the Red Archer, acquires the sword Stormbringer, and makes a lot of terrible choices in the name of defying Fate and the Powers That Be.Overwrought and amateurish, and yet still a classic of fantastic literature: wonderfully dry (you can almost picture him writing these books with one eyebrow continuously cocked at his typewriter), compelling, a quick read, and full of the great scenes and mythological weight that Moorock is so adept at spinning.
The protagonist has the repuation of being an anti-hero, and he lives up to it, as "his desire was not to reform Melnibone but to reform himself" (30), which I suppose means the quest, if there is one here, is not to change the Evil Empire but merely for Elric, who "debates moral issues" (4) and "neither thinks nor acts in accordance with their conception of how a true Melnibonean should think and act" (5), to become the proper Evil Emperor.
"...the happiness cannot last unless we know completely what we are." There are two kinds of good books. One is that book which will make one feel warm and hopeful. There is other type which will make one gloomy and depressive. And Elric of Melnibone belongs to the other kind.Wow! I really am impressed from the work of so called Anti-Tolkien writer. Most of the people agree that J.R.R. Tolkien was the father of epic-fantasy and many of the novels (e.g. Eragon, since many of my good friends on G
Most of the people agree that J.R.R. Tolkien was the father of epic-fantasy and many of the novels (e.g. Eragon, since many of my good friends on Goodreads have re-read read it recently) are inspired from Tolkien's work.
(Perhaps, there might be the case that too many cooks characters spoil the broth novel.) Enough of Tolkien bashing (as if I have the authority to do it!
'You are a gloomy comrade, friend Elric.
The good thing I have like about the book is that the author does not drag and spend time on trivial things and so-called rich detailing and the songs.
The Elric Saga is one of the classics of the fantasy genre.I think it’s underrated despite inspiring big shot authors like R.A. Salvatore, Neil Gaiman and Margaret Weiss, and some milestone characters of the fantasy genre such as Drizzt Do’urden and Raistlin Majere.
The mood and athmosphere of the whole series is dark and melancholy, but without graphic violence and gore.If you are a lover of fantasy genre and still haven’t read the Elric Saga due to its underrated status, I highly recommend you to read it.
If she ever reads this, I hope she takes this in a good way.Anyway, at the party, Denyse mentioned that she'd read Elric and found something in the books that she never got out of "The Lord of the Rings." The title character, Elric, is an evil albino emperor.
But he has a conscience and the books have to do with how Elric goes through his adventures serving his patron devil, Arioch, and struggling with his evil, sentient sword Stormbringer.
I've probably read the original six books over 10 times and now that I've gotten through Harry Potter, I need to recharge my literary batteries.
Michael Moorcock created a new kind of hero in Elric of Melnibone. Elric first appeared in several novelettes in the early 1960's (later collected as sequels to this volume).Here, the brooding wizard prince of the ancient and powerful kingdom fights his male cousin, Yrkoon, for a seat on the Ruby Throne, and the love of his female cousin, Cymoril.As a physically frail, well educated, wizard Elric is the opposite of the traditional warrior hero. This book stands the test of time and remains a excellent and easy read for those interested in heroic (or less than heroic) fantasy.
