https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12294652-my-life-next-door
Jase and Samantha were very mature 17-year-olds (very refreshing)4.
The easy, loving, trusting and patient relationship Jase has with Samantha 7.
FINALLY I loved that this book sucked me in and never wanted me to put it down.Samantha lives next door to Jase for 10 years before they actually have their first encounter with each other on a face-to-face level.
FAVORITE SCENE with George, Samantha and Jase:"Is Jase already going to marry you?"I start coughing again.
And have a big family." Jase strides back into the room, of course, midway through this proposition.
4.5*Wasn't what I was expecting at all, it was quite a bit more intense, but I really loved it!
This is why I read YA books - to get this feeling of joy, of happiness, of love.. Because I simply LOVE feeling my head so light and having my heart skip a beat remembering how it felt to fall in love for the first time (and every time after that).I really like stories like this, that get you through every stage of a young relationship; that make you hold your breath for the romantic moments, for the first kiss; that make you smile at all the silliness and cuteness of the couple; that make you
Because I simply LOVE feeling my head so light and having my heart skip a beat remembering how it felt to fall in love for the first time (and every time after that).I really like stories like this, that get you through every stage of a young relationship; that make you hold your breath for the romantic moments, for the first kiss; that make you smile at all the silliness and cuteness of the couple; that make you ache for them when they are in trouble and fall apart; that make you love them more when they get back together, much stronger as a couple, much more in love, knowing themselves better, accepting each other with the good and the bad, feeling their love grow with every page, with every word...I guess what I mean is that this is a very sweet romantic story that went straight to my heart and doesn't plan to leave too soon!There were so many emotions radiating through these pages, with all that drama and those tangled situations that I almost didn't see a way to end the story well.
Tim and Nan: the fucked up siblings.
Nan turns out to be a cheater, envious of Sam's great accomplishments and perfect boyfriend.
WHY WOULD NAN DO THIS TO SAM?
IT'S SO UNFAIR FOR PERFECT SAM!Aaaand there's Tim. He's your typical bad boy character.
So after being fucking angry (that scene was so stupid), he quit his immoral job.I dislike so many more things about this book:I dislike this weird dynamic between Jase, Sam and Tim. And at one point, I just couldn't care any less to understand.
This book is evil.)I dislike Samantha's mom.
When I checked this book out at the library, my favorite librarian looked at me funny and said "This is not a you book". I told her that every once in awhile I want fluffy. I can do romancy young adult. I think I should probably stick mostly with the serial killers and stalkersPrincess perfect Samantha lives a fairy tale life. Her mommy is a politician who gained her throne through that handy trust fund.  Now next door to this paradise is one of "those families". The ones that never mow their la
I told her that every once in awhile I want fluffy.
I think I should probably stick mostly with the serial killers and stalkersPrincess perfect Samantha lives a fairy tale life.
Her mommy is a politician who gained her throne through that handy trust fund.
So Samantha watches them.
For years.
Then well...you know what happens next if you read many young adult books.
Is it really insta-love if she has stalked him for years?
Jace does have an interesting family.
George saved this book.
Now for mommy and her political boyfriend.
If you want fluffy, read this book.
Because it had:• huge emphasis on family...BIG families in fact, which warms my soul because I have big family.• a slow burn romance that started off as a friendship.• all the secondary characters had personalities and lives and brains too, and no one felt like a cardboard cut out.• IT HAD FUNNY MOMENTS• Plenty of food• I think my emotions caught in a knot and I hiccuped with feels, but ya know, that probably wasn't me because I am Vulcan.• Did I mention big families?!?!??!?!?!?
I really enjoyed this! Sam and Jase are SUCH great characters and I really enjoyed seeing them fall in love (even if it was a little bit of insta love).A lot of things surprised me about this book, and it just gave me the warm fuzzies all the time. I AM STILL SMILING. So great. So wonderful. Bless.
I've read so many bad books lately and those autors didn't have the excuse of first attempt in their writing carieers.
My Life Next Door reminded me a lot of Sarah Dessen novels - by the concept and the writing style.
On the other hand, three pages descriptions of what your main heroine is wearing on her first day in school just for the sake of describing is not a good move.) What I liked the most?
For the end I can say only one thing - I can't wait for Huntley Fitzpatrick's next novel.P.S. September 8th 2013.I think that I'll re-read this book soon.
In addition to the Garretts though, another family that played a huge part in this novel was Sam’s best friend Nan and her brother Tim. Sam has grown up with these two since childhood and I loved how realistically their relationships were portrayed – well, in the first half of the novel.
First and foremost, one of the main issues that can be seen even from the beginning of the novel is the fact that Sam’s mother hates Jase’s family.
So of course, when Sam becomes involved with Jase her mother doesn’t know about it and surprisingly enough, neither does Sam’s best friend.
Why, thank you book for all these wonderful platitudes. We need to part ways now though, at 35%, but don't worry, I'll compile here every amazing moment we shared together.► Remember when Jase and Sam fell in love over a lemonade at 9%? Because I was there to follow their astounding banter and was deeply moved by the slow burn of their feelings....  "He drains the entire thing in one gulp, then reaches for the other cup. "That's mine," I say."Oh, jeez. Of course. Sorry. I am thirsty."I extend my
We need to part ways now though, at 35%, but don't worry, I'll compile here every amazing moment we shared together.► Remember when Jase and Sam fell in love over a lemonade at 9%?
► Remember when Jase kept telling Sam such profound and life changing sentences?
"No, thank God. I'd die if I got in trouble."Jase looks at me intently, as though what I've said is profound" ← SEE?"No, you wouldn't, Samantha.
← Tim's favorite words if any.► Remember when Sam caught her mum's boyfriend (probably) cheating and didn't say a thing?
"I guess I like things that take time and attention.
Okay, I will admit I loved, loved, loved the beginning of the book and pretty much to the half way mark.
Sam's sister was okay.
I hated Sam's best friend Nan and I loathed Nan's brother Tim. Although, he did get better toward the end.
Everything was going so good and fun and then there was too much Tim, some horrible stupid thing Sam's mom does <-- and they all sit around like we should just ignore it.
Anyway, the ending sort of sucked because I wanted a big ole thing and it didn't happen.
The only reason (and I mean ONLY) that this book gets a 4.95 instead of a full 5 stars is because I felt like the ending didn't wrap up enough.With one of the funnest contemporary casts of all time, an extremely sweet and beautiful romance, and a twist that will be a surprise, My Life Next Door is undoubtedly one of the best contemporaries of all time — and one of my all-time favourites as well!BUY or BORROW?: Why are you even thinking about this question??
Her mother is a real piece of work and not only looks down on the Garrett family but gets caught up with her new campaign guy Clay and lacks a lot of the important mom skills.
The author throws in a great cast of charters, adorable younger Garrett kids and a pure love story.
Samantha is faced with doing the right thing when she realizes that her mother has affected the Garrett family in which she has become a pseudo member.
The story wasn’t too young for my tastes but just the right amount of first love, summer fun, and villain drama.
Samantha  is a young girl who, at first glance, appears to have it all.
But they are also a happy, loving family, and Samantha cannot help becoming drawn to their unique lifestyle.
For Samantha, watching them is like dreaming--until one day Jase climbs up to her window, and the Garrett's finally materialize.
Jase and Sam build an instant friendship that leads slowly to young love.
The story didn't feel like it actually ended -- it felt as if it just fell off.
Young love.
Sweet, lively hero.▪	 Plot: Two young teens from opposite backgrounds find love.
This was a 5 plus star read for me…until the end, because there really wasn’t one, or at least not one that satisfied me.
Fortunately Sam is a better person than her mother could ever dream to be, and sees the Garrett's for what they really are; a messy yard, large brood, chaotic life and an overabundance of LOVE for each other and living!It is basically a clean romance; however Jase and Sam do explore their sexuality.
Jase and Sam take their time with this life-changing event, and the author injected some humor to lighten the mood.
One of my favourite boys in YA contemporary fiction is Étienne St. Clair from  Anna and the French Kiss  and Jase Garrett from My Life Next Door is now up there with him!Seventeen-year-old Samantha Reed lives a quiet, stable life compared to her neighbours. The Garretts are loud and chaotic and everything Samantha's senator mother tries to avoid, so Samantha knows her mother would not be happy that she has fallen in love with Jase. Jase's parents and their seven other children – Joel, Alice, And
and Jase Garrett from My Life Next Door is now up there with him!Seventeen-year-old Samantha Reed lives a quiet, stable life compared to her neighbours.
Samantha must first convince herself to do what's right.My Life Next Door is everything I want from a YA contemporary novel: a close-knit American town setting; a realistic and believable romance; a supportive and loving family (especially toddler George!); intense friendships; and quite a bit of drama.
I'm part of a small family and struggle to imagine what it must be like to be one of eight children, but I loved reading about the Garretts, and watching Samantha figure out how to navigate their world.
My Life Next Door tells us the story of Samantha, a girl who practically has spent her 17 years watching The Garrets. All the time The Garrets are her neighbors next door and Sam’s mother hates them because they remind her of her ex- in laws. They are a huge family, very noisy and carefree, they are happy. And even though Sam’s mom told her to never ever have contact with them she can’t help but stare at them all the time.And one night while she’s spying them, Jase comes to “rescue her”. ”Hey, n
My Life Next Door tells us the story of Samantha, a girl who practically has spent her 17 years watching The Garrets.
And even though Sam’s mom told her to never ever have contact with them she can’t help but stare at them all the time.And one night while she’s spying them, Jase comes to “rescue her”.
for a while.Sam’s best friend Nan also plays an important role in this story (view spoiler)[ FUCKING BITCH!
I don’t even have words, not to mention her boyfriend and all that happened (view spoiler)[ with the accident  (hide spoiler)]But I guess Jase made it up for me big time because he was PERFECT!
Okay this was a lot more hard hitting than I thought it would be. Here I was expecting a cute summer romance (I mean, look at that deceiving cover!) and I get a beautiful story on family, redemption, love and doing what is right.
SO CUTE!! 4.25*This was exactly what I needed to read. It was just lovely. I loved the characters, I loved the plot and I can't wait to pick up the next books in this series. So adorable, I really enjoyed it!!
4.5 AHHHH SO GOOD AND CUTE AND AHHHHHHHH
2.5 I'M-HAVING-AN-ANGER-ATTACK-OVER-HERE STARSThank you dear Rosalinda for BR with me <3 There were quite a few characters i really wanted to stab in the eye and push off a cliff. Let's make a list.1. Samantha (but only towards the end).2. Gracie (Samantha's mother)3. Clay (Samantha's mum boyfriend).4. Nan (Samantha's BFF).  But for my sake i'm going to keep this review short and sweet.  One thing my mother never knew, and would dissaprove of most of all, was that i watched the Garretts. All
SamanthaI liked her in the beginning but at the end she became so freaking annoying i had to stop reading, take deep breaths and calm damn before i would set the book on fire (and trust me, i've done it once before).I wished she would stand up for herself and not let her stupid mother live her life for her.
(hide spoiler)]Teen MC really get me angry when they don't have a little attitude and listen to everything their parents say like some dogs.
Don't let my review stop you from reading this, you will most likely enjoy it more than i did :)
I LOVED THIS BOOK. I'd say more like 4.57 stars. Here's my full review: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a88UYL...
“Who are these people, and why do they think their own opinions are the only right ones?” My Life Next Door is one of those super adorable contemporary novels you'd read if you want to pass the time. I really liked it yet I had a few issues with it. The plot has several themes, some of which are family, belonging, doing what's right... The plot was also heavily centered around politics, which wasn't interesting for me. I've never cared about politics. I don't understand it and it never interest
The plot has several themes, some of which are family, belonging, doing what's right...
The plot was also heavily centered around politics, which wasn't interesting for me.
In this book, I was quickly distracted during scenes about politics.Another issue was the plot.
Before that, it was just Samantha's daily life and her growing relationship with Jase and his family.
TELL ME HE ISN'T THE MOST PRECIOUS THING IN THE ENTIRE WORLD???Now, Jase Garrett, our male MC.
Jase is a great brother, a great son, and a wonderful boyfriend and honestly I'm in love with him.
I loved it all!Samantha as an MC...
Which is why I was so sad when I started the book and felt...
Her voice wasn't very strong in my head while I was reading and that made me lack invested emotions in the book.
The first half of the book was almost boring to me, which left me so disappointed.
I wondered why the whole book couldn't be like the last quarter.
I felt like Jase and Samantha's relationship moved too fast, though I did believe there were genuine feelings for each other.
Although the last quarter of the book was really amazing, the uneventful first half did detract from my enjoyment of the book.
My Life Next Door  is the kind of story that you expect to be light and fluffy . . . but then it surprises you.I thought this book would be very cliché: little rich girl falls for the boy next door; gets a whole new perspective on life through the eyes of a financially-strained, but very happy — unlike her own — family; and learns something big about herself over the course of one short summer. In a lot of ways, that is what this book is about. But, in truth, it is about so much more.Samantha R
but then it surprises you.I thought this book would be very cliché: little rich girl falls for the boy next door; gets a whole new perspective on life through the eyes of a financially-strained, but very happy — unlike her own — family; and learns something big about herself over the course of one short summer.
I wasn't expecting that, either, but I love surprises.Truly, I don't feel that my words can properly describe how much I loved this book, or how much I got out of it, or how much I wish more people would discover it and feel for it what I did.
DNF at about 60%.Deceptive cover that raises misleading expectations and somehow draws comparison to ANNA AND THE FRENCH KISS is deceptive.
Before any of my smart ass friends starts asking “what?” or “huh?”let me just say that I was in a slump and i needed to read something light and fluffy.
Tbh he has more personality than Jase lmao bye (Don't kill me, May)2.The writingIt's easy to read, it's light and I needed it for my slump.
don't know her.Tbh I'm kind of upset because there's no resolution between her and Sam but oh well.
I prefer the fucked up Timothy lmao3.Jase's little siblings (except for Andy)I hate children.
I hate reading about children.
I hate reading about 4 annoying children.
bye✨Overall✨I loved it and I want Timothy Mason like yesterday.
*4.25 SHELTERED STARS* “Who are these people, and why do they think their own opinions are the only right ones?”  Oh my god, this was soooo much better han I thought this was going to be! That crazy plot twist at the end totally took me by surprise and changed the entire feel and setting of this book in a flash! It changed from being slightly superficial to teaching real life lessons. Reading this really makes you realize the importance of family, friendship, love, loyalty and doing the right th
Reading this really makes you realize the importance of family, friendship, love, loyalty and doing the right thing in the end.All the characters were a huge hit for me!
Personally, Sam grew the most throughout this story between the both of them, but that's probably only because we see everything from her POV.My absolute favorites were George and Tim though!
but they were all executed really well and were kind of necessary for the story to develop.I loved the contrast between Sam and Jase's home.
I'm hoping we'll get to know more in Tim and Alice's novel though!All in all, definitely a must-read, very cute love story with a great message!
A contemporary novel that usually explores the values of family, friendship, life etc.But by the end of the book...all I could think was, really?
what was the point of all that drama?There were so many unresolved issues (view spoiler)[i.e. her friendship with Nan, what Tim would do, what was Sam's decision about moving, what would happen with her and Jace (hide spoiler)], and it made me frustrated.
There's this big, bad event that happens, and I don't think it made the characters grow.
There wasn't a big conflict, the relationship between Sam and Jace was strong throughout the novel.
For years, Sam had watched the Garrett's from her bedroom next door.
But day after day, Sam found herself drawn to watching them until one day one of the sons, Jase, climbs up and talks to her.
From then on Sam is tied inextricably to the Garrett's, but most of all to Jase.
The romance between Jase and Sam is one you could imagine lasting for years, and there were lovely swoony scenes between them that had my heart all a-flutter.
Sam doesn't even recognize her mother and doesn't care for the effect Clay has on her.
