https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835779.War_in_Val_d_Orcia
This is a very interesting diary, written during the years 1943 and 1944 by Iris Cutting, a British woman who married Marchese Antonio Origo and lived with him in Southern Tuscany.
It is obvious to Iris that the war is lost and that it is just a matter of time before the Allies arrive.
No, she replies, and when Iris tells her how dangerous this could have been, she tells her that she has an escaped English prisoner of war in her house, not an American one…We read of the fall of Mussolini, Italy becoming a battlefield and the locals either ‘half-hearted participants or passive spectators,’ who just want the war to finish.
When it comes to things like World War II, I prefer to read about the daily life of hoi polloi rather than battles won and lost and the big doings of world leaders.
If you want a clear and unflinching picture of life for the Italian people late in the war, this book will serve better than any novel or formal history book.
No matter how bad your life is, I'd be willing to bet as much as you're willing to lose that it's pretty cushy compared to what these people went through.
True life detailed within 1943 and 1944 Tuscany, Italy.
This does not have the character development of fiction or the luxury of literary sentiment in lyrical melody.
Instead it is recorded life during a war the way it really happens.
Questionable loyalty, civil war with 100's of characters coming in and out of the chaos.
Continual shifting to do the "right thing" or for various survival or military movements.
And they may all be different things to do.
Iris speaks for herself.
This is real mapping to Italian cultural and political dichotomies, as well.
Iris is Anglo-American married to a Italian land owner.

This is my SECOND time to read this book (the first was while we were actually staying in Siena, not far away from Val d'Orcia). I love the day-to-day view of the advancing war front in 1940s Italy. I love her spirit. I love her writing style (this is a diary). I'm surprised at the number of books that have been based on her book including Chris Bohjalian's recent "Light in the Ruins" and "Restoration" by Olaf Olafsson (both good, by the way). If you want to get a different view of World War II, I recommend this book highly.
Particularly interesting as it is a day by day account of the Second World War from the perspective of someone living in Tuscany and the effect it had on the author, her family and community. An always timely reminder that the victims of war are ordinary people. I also particularly liked how she pointed out how brave and generous the Italians were, risking their lives to help others.
My knowledge of Italian history during WWII was very limited, but after reading The Light in The Ruins, I decided to read a factual account of the chaotic events that followed the fall of Mussolini and the civil war that occurred as the Allies invaded and the Germans dug in with no real functioning government left in Italy.
This is an amazing first hand account of a villa in rural Tuscany and what one family provided and endured as the war swept over their estate.
Amazing book.
I read this book years ago, but then re-read it after reading that it inspired Chris Bojhalian to write The Light in the Ruins in 2013. The wartime diary of Iris Origo, The English wife of the Marchese Origo who took care of sixties orphans and, with her husband, kept their estate running through the tumult of the Second World War, is a riveting read - even the second time around.
They are pretty much responsible for the surrounding farms.
This works much like tenant farming, except that the farmer and Antonio , the husband/landowner, split the profit.Iris keeps her diary through the war and, I think, she tries to keep some objectivity in it.
She is part of the underground railroad and people are getting sent to her.The Allies do some bombing and machinegun civilians.
Whether this would be considered a war crime or not I don't know - I think it might depend on how high up they were.
I don't think they had read about June 1944.
An interesting first-hand account of life in Italy from 1943-1944. Origo was Anglo-American and married to an Italian Count who lived in rural Tuscany below Siena. She was in a war zone dealing with a defeated Italy, a fascist puppet state, German occupiers, a flood of escaped POWS, partisans, and allied bombing, all while caring for 23 refugee children in addition to her own children. She was well-known as a person who assisted escaped POWs, a fact which probably led to her honors (Dame Commander) by the UK after the war. Recommended.
This book was a best-seller when originally published, and deservedly so. I listened to the book on tape, and it was fantastic.
It's the wartime diary of an expat (she was of US/UK citizenship) who married an Italian and lived on a villa in the Val d'Orcia, the region of Tuscany around Pienza and Montepulciano.
It's quite a brief account of the war, and very personalized to Origo's community and situation, but it's wonderful to get a perspective of the war from a citizen's-eye view.
The fact that the view was particularly Italian made it all the more intriguing (even if it was simplified and brief), as I've always had a rather peripheral knowledge of the rather impotent "ugly stepsister" of the Axis alliance.

A rich and blooded British woman marries the illegitimate son of an Italian Marchese, whatever that is, buys a sprawling, barren Tuscan estate, acquires some tenant farmers, and keeps a whole lot of refugee kids and escaped POWs fed and clothed through World War II. Like me, she listens to the BBC. Unlike me, the German military took a lot of her stuff and she lived under fairly constant threat of execution. And she soldiered on.
At the time this diary was written, Italy, always a reluctant participant in the war, is trying to extricate itself and suffering both from Allied bombing and German occupation.
The overall impression is of chaos, not just from the direct effects of the war, but also the confused political situation (there are up to four different governments, none of which is in control of much of the country or supported by a significant majority of the Italian people).
There are displaced people everywhere: refugees from the bombed industrial cities, deserters from the army and reluctant recruits, escaped and released allied prisoners-of-war, Jews escaping internment and other people escaping the war or the Germans or reprisals.
Origo's farm had benefited from the fascist government, but it was difficult to remain neutral as these waves passed through.
In addition to her husband and two baby daughters, Origo's farm sheltered more than 30 children, whose parents sent them away from the more dangerous cities.
It was probably only luck that kept her and her husband from being shot by either the Germans or the fascists.
Origo's low-key presentation serves to emphasize living through the horrors of war.
A lucky find at the free book exchange - I had no idea this diary existed and my war readings so far have leaned towards infantry soldiers experiences, but this is a fascinating look at civilian life and mindset under war and Fascism.
The author's concerns are largely focused on the day to day concerns of living in a war zone, caring for refugee children, and providing a meal or a pair of boots to partisan fighters or escaped pow Allied soldiers.
Her position gives her interaction with and insight into peasants, partisan fighters, and soldiers on both sides of the war.
An extremely interesting account of the practicalities of life in Italy during the later years of WW2 under the Facists and German occupation.
At first, the diary entries seemed almost too placid and mundane, but the more I read, the more apparent the things going on underneath the simple accounts became.
It was fascinating to learn more about the internal Italian and local politics at the time, which were much more complex than American history books generally portray.
I was also reading a book about the German occupation of Paris around the same time and it was interesting to see how differently the two populations reacted to German occupation.
I think it's difficult to read someone else's diary entries, especially if they weren't written with one eye on eventual publication.Putting that aside, this was fascinating, in a tragic way. Origo takes you through what it was like, from her position as a member of the wealthy nobility but also as a caregiver to dozens of refugees and orphans, of living under Italian fascism, Nazi German military rule, and having the Italian front pass through your property -- both the ugliness of the retreat and the tragedy of the destruction.definitely worth a read
It was a sobering look at the Allies. Growing up in the US, I've never questioned the Hollywood version of the Allied invasion of Sicily and the progress up the book of Italy. Silly me. Turns out many Italians viewed the Allies with resentment, and with good reason. Deliberate bombing of clear civilian targets, rape of women and girls. The standard wartime package. Origo describes the loss, confusion and uncertainty that hung like a dark cloud.
Beautifully written account of the wartime experiences of an English woman who married an Italian count. She wrote this diary as she was experiencing events at her home, La Foce, situated in a stunning part of Tuscany I once visited. Origo took in many orphans from bombed cities in Italy, sheltered partisans and generally played a dangerous game of hide and seek with the Nazis.
Iris Origo's personal diary is a first-hand account of WWII in Tuscany. I found it an intriguing, beautifully-written read that captured the tension and fear of the time. Her efforts in helping the children orphaned by war were beyond heroic. I reread this book when I visited La Foce and stayed at one of the surrounding farmhouses, and was equally moved as the first read.
A very interesting bookAnyone wanting to understand what everyday life was like during the period of chaos in Italy when the Germans were retreating after Cassino and the Allies were on their way up from Anzio and Salerno this is the book for you.
Insightful view of the War during the allied invasion of Italy, and the overthrow of Mussolini,from the perspective of a rural Tuscan community.
A great book about a compassionate woman.
Not something I would have chosen for myself - that's the point of book groups! The immediacy of this diary makes it fresh and readable. There are fairly clear descriptions of how harmful war can be, without dwelling on the details, and while there's obviously danger, there's also something comforting in the certainties of the situation: Nazis are bad, Fascists are bad, the British are bad but not quite as bad as the others.
New edition of a book first published in 1947. Great non-fiction!
This was a very eloquent firsthand account of war coming to rural Tuscany,Italy. Very well written with excellent insight to the cost of war from a personal standpoint. The author accurately describes the confusion of war and its effects on those who must endure it.
It's hard for us Americans to put ourselves in a position to feelingly comprehend the experiences of more traditional societies, societies in which life and choices operate only within an inherited social, family and personal framework.
Her first commercial success was this book, "War in the Val d'Orcia," describing her experiences on her estate during the war, when she protected and sheltered large numbers of child war refugees in her own buildings and among her own tenants on her estate.
All such readers of every kind will be well satisfied with this book and the story Ms. Origo has to tell.
Their place is busy: They have 23 children sent from cities to be safe there; partisans are living in their woods, as are soldiers evading draft, escaping from prison camps; Germans live in their home at times; Fascist troops are coming by all the time.
It is an interesting story of people living right on the front, as well as a good history lesson about Italy at the time.
The Allies' involvement was initially very desired but some of that went away with the indiscriminate bombing and the demands by Churchill for the Italian people to throw out the German after the Fascists lost power there for a bit in '43.
