https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29801.Scott_Pilgrim_Volume_2
Second Level! This is the second book (in a series of six) of “Scott Pilgrim” saga.Creative Team:Creator, writer and illustrator: Bryan Lee O’Malley (boy, he doesn’t share, ain’t he?) PILGRIM’S PATH GOES BACK AND FORTH  My name is Knives Chau, and I’m a Scottaholic!! My name is Alejandro Sáenz, and I’m a Ramonaholic. (Whew. Glad I got that off my chest (and yes, I’ve eaten fish and I have no shame about it!), but you must figured it out due the review of the first book)The plot thickens……in thi
(and by the way, a cool and funny scene that you only get by reading the Canadian manga series).Also, you get to meet a new character (that you didn’t get in the movie!) which is Lisa, in the flashbacks of Scott’s High School days, that no doubt it will have some future impact in the present of the story in following volumes.And you meet the first band of Scott that it wasn’t Sex Bob-Omb!
There were a couple of confusing parts, but overall this was still so well done and hilarious. I'm going to immediately dive into the next installment!
Our son David dragged us to see the movie on Saturday.
I also felt rather sleepy at times.
"Well, it's really a movie for my generation," he admitted.The startling realisation that struck me about ten minutes in is that video games have now become culture!
Since I've never played Mortal Kombat or anything similar, it was like watching a movie in a foreign language.
Several times, I caught myself thinking that, if only I'd known, I would have done a bit of Tekken first to get the literary background.
Scott’s roommate Wallace pressures him into breaking up with Knives, his 17 year old high school girlfriend, as he’s two-timing her with Ramona Flowers, the pink-haired girl who’s swept Scott off his feet.
Kim Pine gets a lot more attention in this book as we see her past with Scott and her current life, adding a touch of melancholy to this perfect recipe of a comic (there’s also the perfect recipe for vegan shepherd’s pie included here too!).
Some of the characters look too similar and I have a hard time telling them apart.
The text is minuscule sometimes and my old fart eyes have a hard time reading it.
I did like the fight between Ramona and Knives (she is a badass!) but wish he has made her 18 instead of 17 because it feels too much like statutory rape should Scott ever go all the way (unless one of my Canuck readers can tell me that the age of consent in Canada is 16 or 17 rather than 18?).
Other friends/followers have read the 6 volumes?
I thought this was better than the first book.
I enjoyed this one.
I thought Scott was supposed to fight 7 evil ex-boyfriends and he didn't fight one in this one, but his girlfriend fought an ex-girlfriend.There are lots of unexpected and quicky things happening here.
I thought the characters were better in this one too.
I like Ramona as a character.
Scott was much better in this one than the last one, so I think that is why I enjoyed it more.The cover is in color and the book itself is black and white.
Genial, increíblemente genial. Amé el desarrollo de la historia, de los personajes, y por sobre todo, a la loca ex novia de Scott: Knives Chau.
The first volume was not that great to begin with, but this second one was even worse. The plot was all over the place and really absurd. I'm not sure if I'm going to continue on with the series.
It has taken a really long time to return to the next volume of Scott Pilgrim's adventures, but it has totally been worth it.There is one thing I adore about the entire story: it is insane.And they do not care.
Weird things keep happening in this otherwise normal world, sometimes there are superpowers, sometimes it looks like a computer game, sometimes completely insane stuff happen and nobody bats an eyelash.I absolutely love this atmosphere of "You can do whatever you want".
The Scott Pilgrim books are cute, but this is one of those almost nonexistent situations where I prefer the film adaptation. (Don't throw bricks at me!)
Scott must face Ramona’s second evil ex-boyfriend, a movie star with crazy skills. How’s he going to win a guy which seems to be unbeatable? Also he officially ends up things with Knives, then she goes all crazy and wants to kill Ramona ( I bet you didnt see that coming ). Let me see, what else? Oh yeah, Envy calls ( Envy is Scott’s ex, the one who broke his heart) and im guessing nothing good will come out of that.
The name of this review should be "Scott Pilgrim Continues to be a Dick".Ugh, why can't he just break up properly with his 17 year old girlfriend? What a douche.The redeeming features are some of the other characters such as Ramona. The motivation to keep going with these novels is that hopefully the last novel starts with Ramona waking up to herself, dumping his ass followed by scenes of his decline into drug addiction and death by overdose. Too mean?Ok the fighting her ex boyfriends in each book is kinda cool. I'll admit that.
I feel it is ok to let your kids (13 and up) read Scott Pilgrim.
Let them feel like they are reading something naughty but in return they keep reading in hopes that they will see another swear word)* Scott Pilgrim does NOT drink booze.
But for the sake of our children he doesn't drink.* Scott doesn't smoke AT ALL!
He actually thinks smoking is evil.
Wholesome values!!A review from an American IdiotScott Pilgrim is Canadian!!
Hmmmms....Review from someone who saw the movie:Scott Pilgrim Vs. The Wold is about the second evil ex boyfriend.
People loved these?
Everything is taken for granted, not only by the characters, but seemingly by the author.A good author can take dull, self-centered characters and use them to make certain observations about the world, or about human psychology, and a lot of authors do this, but so far, what you get from Scott Pilgrim is what's written on the page.I suppose this is why the author takes so many pages to start his story: without any levels of meaning or complexity, he has no shorthand for introducing ideas.
The reason I gave the first book 3 stars was because I really didn't "get" a lot of it; the story didn't seem entirely connected, it has gaming connotations which I don't understand and I found Scott to be a bit of a douche and didn't much like him.HOWEVER...having watched the film over the weekend and seen Michael Cera's interpretation of Scott's character, I can wholeheartedly say that my perception of him has changed...for the better!
:) This second volume follows his relationship with (my new girl crush) Ramona Flowers, who has funky hair whilst Scott's ex, Knives Chau is out for revenge.
The story of Scott Pilgrim was a little bit mushy and stupid sometimes but what got me hooked to this graphic novel is the FIGHTS!.
The fight between Scott and Lucas Lee (the second evil ex-boyfriend of Ramona)is a bit lame so let's skip that part and go straight to the fight of Knives Chau (17 yr old, recent ex-girlfriend and a self-confessed Scottaholic) and Ramona Flowers (recent girlfriend of Scott, the reason why this graphic novel was made on the first place).
Knives became a bit of a stalker and decided that if she eliminates Ramona, Scott will go back to her.
I just don’t understand how Scott keeps getting the girl. How...? The second installment gives us a little bit of the backstory regarding Scott and Kim, as well as Scott and Envy. He really is useless. *instert dramatic sigh here*
OMG how fun are these books?
So ridiculously fun.
Obvs there's a lot more characterization here than in the films; Knives' fight with Ramona is awesome, everyone's silly insults and awful comebacks are hilarious, I love love love Wallace Wells so fucking fierce.
Plus you can read the whole book while you're waiting for your laundry to finish, thus letting you forget that you're in a hot, crowded, too-bright but sweet-smelling communal hole with a creepy bald guy leering at you and women beating their children and it's raining outside and this isn't your book so you can't even go out and smoke because you don't want to ruin the book but omg if that lady in the tattered sweatpants doesn't stop snoring and leaning closer and closer to my shoulder I'm going to freak the fuck out.
Volume 2, Scott Pilgrim vs.
Other than that, this is an enjoyable read!The main plot of defeating Ramona's seven evil ex-boyfriends still gets me going with reading the series and I actually am excited who Scott Pilgrim will battle next.
I find Kim P.'s story at the first pages of the book particularly cute and interesting.There are a few fourth wall breaks here and there but they are not Deadpool-level.Volume 1 in my opinion is better than this one in terms of writing, but the fun level keeps on increasing.
Now on the second volume of my Scott Pilgrim reread.The second chapter is still good but I'm reminded that Scott spent a lot of time here feeling the gut punch of an ex-girlfriend calling on phone.
Scott didn't even get to punch the second ex Ramona boyfriend.It makes it up though in the final canto of this volume.
Knives dumbstruck at the fact that Scott used to date her idol Envy Adams and our new couple Ramona and Scott realizing that indeed their exes were seeing each other.
A very excellent set-up for the third volume.This is a reread but I still can't wait to move on to the third volume.
WALLACE!WALLACE!WALLACE!
It's been a while since I've read all six books, and since I read a lot, information creep might have set in, but I do know I wanted to see Scott mee Envy Adams again after their breakup, and I figure I might as well get volume to complete the trilogy.I originally read the series in black and white, as well as my recent re-read of volume one, but for volumes two and three, I thought I wanted to try the newer colored editions that were released a few years back, and experience it differently on my iPad.Volume three was where the author began to expand the nascent Scott Pilgrim universe by giving the rest of the supporting cast something to do.
Not quite as charming as the first book, this one seems to go in circles--and never really find its way out.
Also kind of confusing, because they add at least two more girls to Scott's repertoire.There is the obvious fight with another of Ramona's ex-boyfriend, who happens to be pretty cool; the obvious (and awesome!) confrontation between Ramona and Knives; and the obvious arrival of someone from Scott's past.
Charming, with characters just as tangible as the first, with a little less obvious plot progression.
It's the battle of the exesScott might not have been so sure about Ramona in the first book, but this time around, things are different.
He even dumps his girlfriend Knives and goes to find Ramona's ex-boyfriend to face him like a man.
But will this be enough to keep Ramona by his side?The beginning lost me a little, as we meet Envy -- the first girl to break Scott's heart.
But the one who steals the show is Knives.
Women tend to compare themselves to the new bait like crazy, and Knives was no exception.
The Clash at Demon Head is so freaking amazing when I first read them I had goosebumps and I can feel the music all around me and omfg hold me.And Scott's ex--Envy is super hot. And *drum roll please*THERE'S A GIRL FIGHT IN THIS BOOK!!The way they fought and Scott's reactions hahaha..
This is my first read for the BookTubeAThon. WOOT! WOOT!This gets a 3 stars because it felt pretty rushed and disjointed. However, the art is just as fantastic and the humor just as spot on as the previous volume. I will continue on with this series, but I'm in no rush.
Am I missing something? Aren't these supposed to be funny?
No saben como amo esta historia y que te enseñe a preparar comida vegetariana fue un win. Hahahahahaa
Something about Scott Pilgrim's puppy-dog innocence and melodramatic behaviour toward tiny things like his sister knowing his girlfriend casually make him likeable and interesting.
Even when he's sitting around playing video games, you don't mind that he does this rather than worry about getting a job to pay rent and whatnot - he's a free spirit but not in an insufferable way.So yeah the Scott Pilgrim odyssey continues with an excellent second volume and I highly recommend the series thus far as shaping out to be great fun for those looking for a larger than life story drawn in an anime style with lots of humour and some cartoonish violence thrown in.
