https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395851.The_Struggle
This second book of the Vampire Diaries series picks up exactly where the first book ended.
Stefan is missing, and Elena confronts Damon by her choosing.
This story also focuses more on Elena's missing diary.The pace of this book seemed a bit faster to me, which I liked.
The story was more from Elena's perspective this time, with less Stefan.
It has a cliffhanger ending that has me determined to get my hands on the third book and find out what happened and will happen.
This story was an easy read.
Damon is un-redeemably evil and unlikable, (view spoiler)[ and so I was truly disappointed at the end when the author chose to make Elena a vampire (that was fine) and then make her magically fall in love with Damon instead, and also become more vague and bubbleheaded than she already was.
If this author was more talented, she could have slowly brought the reader (and Elena) around to liking Damon more, and then created a legitimate love triangle.
I will just magically make that happen with no explanation and neither character's personality will get in the way." Which means Elena's personality is basically erased (not that anyone would miss it).
My cast was horrible, because I was limited to cutting pictures out of magazines.
So Stefan was Leonardo DiCaprio, because I obviously hated Stefan enough to foist this casting decision on him.
Elena was Alicia Silverstone because she was the only blonde I could find, and Damon was Skeet Ulrich because he was so hot in Scream.Anyway, it's a super ugly poster (I still have it), but I got an A, and its ugliness in no way reflects my love for the book.
I love all the details about the town.And Damon.
I love Damon.
Better than the first book...had more going on in the story. So it's obviously a bit better since pretty much nothing happened in the 1st book lol. But still overrated and the characters are still shallow and unlikable. I didn't think it was possible to dislike every single character in a book...but then I read the Vampire Diaries..😝 Actually Matt and Meredith are a bit better than the rest but the fact that they are Elena's friends makes me dislike them. 🤧
I want my YA goggles back!
Iwant my YA heroines to be strong and independent.
I want my heroes not to be creepy.
What ever happened to strong and independent heroines/heroes?
Why on earth has this story come to revolve around a murderous set...
and I don't mean the vampires!I really don't like the heroine here.
But to be fair, I really don't like the "heroes" either.
Stefan...
is whiny!
Damon is creepy.
Elena is a self centered spoiled princess.
Who could blame Caroline for feeling threatend by her?
And yes, Caroline!
blech!
Tanto o más adictivo que la primera entrega, quizá porque estamos en pleno desarrollo de la historia. Simplemente es un libro que no se puede soltar; la acción está tras de cada página, no deja respiro.
I liked aspects of the ending, but I also think it had a lot of problems: (view spoiler)[Most of the rising action in the book is leading up to the poetry readings at the celebration at the end, which makes the climax the part when Caroline Forbes pulls out the diary to provide evidence implying that Stefan is behind all of Damon's murders.
Vague buildup like that could be okay, but given that this is happening in the final moments of the book, I think that it would've been better if it were less random.

2 thoughts:1- Matt is too good for any of the people in this book. He's a sweet cinnamon roll too pure for this world.1- Holy shit that ending!
Again this isn't the longest of books but there's still quite a lot of stuff packed into the chapters.I thought the ending was really...dramatic, I'm not quite sure if that's the right word, but I'll get to that later.For those of you who haven't read the book: Elena has now found out about Stefan and Damon's secret./ More strange thins are beginning to happen and after the death of Mr. Tanner many people see Stefan as the reason behind everything, but was it him that caused it all?Well, short answer, no, he hasn't...
This book was better than the first. It seems to be the true starting point in the series, and I really wish L.J. Smith would have combined the first and second books.
It was a very nice reading. I read it in few hours and it was pleasant and exciting. I still don't like Damon and I wish Elena was less childish. She annoyed me sometimes and because of that I'm not rating 5 stars. Apart from, I'm excited to read the next book asap!
after reading:it's so bad.
We are clearly in the high point of YA literature now (although hopefully it will continue to get better) so everything that kind of came before this time is either already a classic or so bad its good territory for me.
and there is something about an early 90s book that just makes you want to like it.
Idk maybe i'm being nostalgic (even though I was probably 3 when this book came out).
and it's probably only getting 2 stars because i have to justify why i'm going to continue with the series (beyond the fact that i already own it.
Done in one sitting. I love an easy read, this one was a bit better than the first, more exciting but I can't stand how clingy Elena is and how much she's already in love with Stefan, I don't believe it 😂
I'd pretty much given up on the series after the first book,The Awakening.
But I was interested to give the series another try after hearing one of my friends gush on and on about the TV series.I re-read The Awakening and continued with The Struggle.The book picks up where the first book left off.
The Struggle had much more action and was MUCH better than the first book.Also, the book revealed more about the characters which was relieving - considering the fact that I gave the series a second chance..Summing up, it was not bad and I definitely didn't have to struggle to finish the book.
A HUGE improvement on The Awakening, because it deals with Damon increasing his reign over Fell's Church and over Elena's life.
It's funny, because everytime the book gets dark, heavy and totally consumed with the vampire battle, a Mean Girls-esque plotarc comes along and reminds me that these are just high school girls after all, and the world is still going on around them.
I dont really want to spoil too much, but if you read The Awakening and werent too fussed on it, try this one because it might surprise you.
Less Stefan, more creepy ass Damon, and there's a definitely feeling of evil and foreboding in Fell's Church.
I like the TV Series, it's really my guilty pleasure - so I was willing to overlook a fault or two but this is groundbreakingly stupid and badly written. I can't believe this nonsense could be the foundation for ANYTHING.PS.: I'm still thinking about reading the next installments too, though. lol. Why am I like this?
Elena only lasted two books before dying, carelsessness in my opinion, I hope Vapirism will make her slightly less annoying (although i find it unlikely)
Read this in high school and really enjoyed it! That's about all I can remember.
the only 'struggle' was getting though this book.
Why is it always like that, I kind of understand Bonnie for thinking it would be a nice death, especially since after the initial pain of being bitten you feel some kind of calm or ecstasy.
Why did Damon end up helping Elena and Stefan after all, he kind of hesitated after Elena told him it wasn’t for his own pleasure, could it be he really doesn’t want to see his brother in trouble.
I love that Stefan is a Falcon, what will happen with Tyler and Caroline since he didn’t kill them.
Will I ever read a book about a girl involved with a vampire in a HEALTHY way?
It's only Elena who's being the stupid one.
Then add in Damon and Elena's stupidity knows no bounds.The lesson that comes from this book?
I'd say something along the lines of - if things are troubling you that involve you getting hurt, and people threatening you, then you need to tell the people around you so that they can help.
NONE of this needed to happen.Tune in next week for more of As The Human Turns....
Ahh Ok, this is where the storylines are becoming more and more like some of the TV series.
I kind of like that, and there are still parts that are so far from the TV series it cracks me up.
Also really love the fact that Matt and Stefan are friends, Stefan says something like only he and Elena accept him for who he is not what he is and that is something considering Matt doesn’t know what he is.
I really liked that.
The narration is pretty great, I don’t much like the music but I am getting used it that.
♥
REALLY BETTER from the first one of the series!
This story moves from one book to another from the next scene and not like other sequels which may take few days or few years.
Already accepted difference between TV Series & the books I liked it very much.
It moves different from the book but few characters come in like Alaric.
Different but fun and with lot more diary entries than the series, so while I check the next scene in the next book you should find this or something else you like and Keep on Reading.
I regret nothing.When I first read the first one, I was in a big dilemma, because I wanted to know how the story actually was but I constantly felt more attracted to the characters in the show, which is the version I knew first.
You're gonna meet a totally different story from the very beginning, and I actually think is a good thing, because it's not like you're reading the tv show events, you're reading the beginning of the show you love.
Anyway, I must say I really want to read the whole saga if it continues like this.
Okay, so I might have misled even myself with the rating I gave to the first book, 3 stars.
It was a struggle reading this, even though it was pretty short.
I thought reading the books would give me a better insight and help me understand the TV show better (which I stopped liking after the first two seasons), but it didn't.
This book has less story than a single episode of the show.
Also, the story is drastically different from the series.
The characters, the plot, the dialogues, everything is different, and the TV adaptation is a zillion times better than this series.
I hate myself for this, but I watched the television series first.
Had I read the books first I would not have watched the show.
With the books I hated most of the characters from book one, and only continued on because I’d been brought the first four books (yeah, I do love to subject myself to torture).If I read this comment from another person I would probably roll my eyes, yet in this situation the television show is so much better.Seriously, I have never hated a main character so much – and it only gets worse as the series goes on.I admit that the second book was slightly better than the first, but yet again it was a case of I only read it because I owned more of the series.
I loved this book simply because I think Damon is SO.DAMN.HOT!!![image error]DAMON, COULD YOU PLEASE DO ME A FAVOR AND BITE ME???!!!! I'm a sucker for bad boys. hahaI don't care how creepy he is. I just love him and I also like his enthusiasm.LOVED THIS BOOK! :) but not liking Stefan that much.The only thing I hate was the ending. Why does it have to happen to Elena????? On the bright side maybe it happened to her so she could stop being too weak.Can't wait to read The Fury to find out.
