https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96337.The_Conservationist
She breathes so much life into the landscape that it manages to appear far more humanly than the protagonist who claims its ownership.There are discomfiting images galore seen through the eyes of Mehring, an opportunistic white farm-owner and businessman - hippos frolicking about in the murky waters of marshes who abort their foetuses sensing an impending drought, cows listlessly grazing about a farm peopled by inhabitants of different races and ambiguous allegiances, black children running about the veld snot dripping from their noses who are so carelessly mentioned in passing that they are taken to be closer in kinship with stray animals than humans, a dead body left to decay underneath water reeds by a lax administration, odious sexual encounters between strangers on a plane - which are potent enough to induce nausea in the reader and reinforce the unnaturalness of a South Africa under Apartheid.
We might want a story to carry an impact, not only on us but also on its own subject matter, the time it was set in, the land it describes, the politics of that time.
For much of the book, we are inside the roomy head of Mehring, a successful entrepreneur, a would-be farmer, a misguided conservationist, an old bull, always alone.
But I do want you to know that this shining book exists, and that it holds many, many truths beneath its layers.
Mostly it's with his polar-opposite, leftist married lover (Mehring himself is divorced and seems to have had various flings, many unseemly) whom he's helped to flee the country, but at other times it's with his long-haired, barefoot sixteen-year-old hippie son Terry (the book was published in 1972).
This conservationist not only wants to keep his life (and land) the way it is, he increasingly wants it all for himself.From the opening pages, he and the novel are haunted by the corpse of a murdered black man discovered in Mehring's third pasture.
To keep anything the way you like it for yourself you have to have the stomeach to ignore - dead and hidden - what intrudes.Mehring, (speaking name: increasing, making more) rich pig-iron man, has a hobby farm 25 miles outside the city, shows more concern for 'his' guinea fowl than the snotty nosed, coughing, malnourished children of his farm workers in the compound.
Africa, come back.The narrative is disconcerting, swirling in and out, sometimes internal, sometimes external, Mehring addresses sometimes his mistress, sometimes his son, sometimes changing so abruptly between the two that it is hard to keep up.
When the body of a black man is found in Mehring's farm outside of Johannesburg, you realize that Gordimer is writing with a capacity for gruesome metaphor.
But Gordimer's writing always hints at something underneath, of Mehring's own emotional wounds and his inability to do anything about them, or perhaps the easy activism of his mistress and son still disguising their inactivity.
Add to this long langorous depictions of the landscape and the locals, both slipping out of Mehring's fingers, and dashed conversations, and one finds a book of uncommon literary and emotional difficulty.
I get it, that's a big claim, but I have a feeling that when bell hooks coined the phrase "white supremacist, capitalist, patriarch" she had people like Mehring in mind.
Mehring doesn't want just sex to be about money, he wants his wealth to allow him to control every facet of his life.
I propose that in these images, Gordimer implies a failure for Mehring's toxicity to be passed on.
Because the social world comes with order, people like Mehring's grasp of South Africa are weakening.

Which of course is the paradox of this brilliant, difficult novel: Mehring represents white South Africa and to see the world through his eyes, as we do in The Conservationist, is to trap the other characters--black, Indian, women--in a kind of subordinate, pitiful stasis.
Nadine Gordimer deliberately holds us at arm's length as Mehring considers the human world around him, but draws us in close when showing us the land.
Shortly after book opens on Mehring's country farm, twenty-five miles outside Johannesburg, the corpse of a black man is discovered by the river.
Biblical rains and flood end Mehring's farm fancies.
This is the kind of book that college professors love to assign to their undergrads. Similar to Carlos Fuentes'  The Death of Artemio Cruz , in which Artemio's life and death serve as metaphors for the historic arc of the Mexican Revolution and the corrupt PRI party it spawned, the anti-hero of The Conservationist is Gordimer's metaphor for a South Africa apartheid system that is impossible to conserve despite the wishes of its White population.In fact, I'm sure there is some college undergrad o
, in which Artemio's life and death serve as metaphors for the historic arc of the Mexican Revolution and the corrupt PRI party it spawned, the anti-hero of The Conservationist is Gordimer's metaphor for a South Africa apartheid system that is impossible to conserve despite the wishes of its White population.In fact, I'm sure there is some college undergrad out there who is writing a paper about Gordimer's imagery of the colonial aesthetic of non-native plants destroying the sacred bond between native Africans and the local flora and fauna.
The dead man found at the beginning haunts the rest of the novel--and it works brilliantly.On the other hand, most of the time I read it I was annoyed by what to me felt like an over self-indulgent, self-conscious style.
I enjoy a more simple, understated style.I'm sure a lot of this was just my approach to the novel, but I couldn't help feel like the narrator was drolling on and on in this way, enunciating alliteration and assonance to show how clever it was.
The Best of the Booker judges have a bit different taste than I do--I didn't feel like this book really made it out of the early 1980s.
8.5/10
The best way I found to describe it is that it's like an impressionist painting -- when you're close up, in the thick of reading it, it just seems like a blur of random words, but after you step back a bit (say, when you've finished a chapter), things snap into focus and you realize what you've just read.
And the book has lovely descriptions of the natural landscape and a chapter which takes place on New Year's Eve that is one of the best bits of writing I've read recently.
I finished this while in hospital recently.There's something going on, and you don't know what it is, do you Mr Mehring?
Mehring farms tax breaks for fun in the High Veld.
But his world is falling apart in some vague way.
The story moves along slowly, as lazy as life on the high veld under a burning sun, fantastically atmospheric and fuzzy as a dream.
That weakness for young women, it's going to be the death of Mehring, you just know it.
I have a feeling it ought to be magnificent, but it falls a little short.
There is a review on Amazon which summed it up for me "I read every boring word on every boring page of this boring, boring book - and only because my mission is to read every Booker prize winner.
Otherwise, I would have hurled this book into the bin after twenty pages.
Even if Gordimer holds her readers in such contempt, at least her publisher should have ensured that the small concession of making the work readable would be a good idea.If I could give negative numbers of stars for this book, I would."Ha!
More like a 9/10. Gordimer writes brilliantly and I always find her subject matter interesting. This book about South Africa, as usual, might seem a tiny bit dated, as it was written, I believe, between 1972-74, but it captures the agonies of the time from the perspective of a somewhat clueless, but mostly well=meaning, middle-aged white man.
I got to page 44 out of 267.
Alas, I’m 0 for 2 on South African Booker Prize winners; I also tried J.M. Coetzee’s Life & Times of Michael K, hoping to write up one or more of them before the Booker Prize 50th anniversary celebrations.
Nice landscape descriptions, but despite the discovery of a body there’s absolutely no narrative momentum, and one doesn’t warm to Mehring at all.
My favorite passage, with the ironically apt adjectives noted in bold, was “The upland serenity of high altitude, the openness of grassland without indigenous bush or trees; the greening, yellowing or silver-browning that prevailed, according to season.
At times boorish and misogynistic, Mehring is absolutely opposed to any changes in the status quo of apartheid South African political organisation and attempts to keep everything on his farm running smoothly by keeping firm control over his Black workforce.
Mehring can be said to be Gordimer’s personification of what was fundamentally wrong with the South African state at the time that she wrote the novel; a privileged businessman, who owns and runs a farm which he only visits at weekends, yet expects to be able to keep it fully under control.
Mostly follows the interior monologue of Mr. Mehring, a wealthy white colonial industrialist in South Africa, who has bought a farm 25 miles from his city apartment.
Mehring's life is so removed from them he barely empathizes with them.
He also cares about his farm, but the weather and other disasters challenge his idealized vision of what it could be.
The book opens with an unidentified dead man found face down in Mehrings willows near the river that runs next to his farm.
No one knows him and the police don't even bother to investigate the murder.
The man is another Black, of course.
It has been several years since I read this novel, and what sticks in my memory vividly is the portrait Gordimer creates of a self-satisfied, white property-owner in apartheid-era South Africa.
We see the world through his eyes, and we see how well it serves him, keeping him wealthy and comfortable.
While money, property, and influence keep him at a safe distance from the political troubles slowly encroaching on his private world, Gordimer reveals his physical and emotional isolation.
It needs to be read slowly, analysed line by line to tease out the meaning, and I really tried to stay with it but in end the current pulled me under.
Mostly, however, it just seemed like a jumble of abstract thought.
I was hoping to learn more about South African society, and when better to do so than while we're all watching it on the World Cup. In the end, I fear only literary eggheads will gain knowledge from this book.
Like the apartheid system itself, I was profoundly glad when it came to an end.
He bought a farm out in the country because that’s what rich people do, and it offers him tax benefits.
The lands he bought were taken from the black people who truly keep it running, with or without him.
This third pasture develops a spooky mythology of its own, especially when nature wins out and the body resurfaces to reclaim the land.
I enjoyed this, but it does require effort and attention, and best appreciated as a whole when you’ve come to the end.
I read The Conservationist in a kind of appalled fascination, repelled by the language South African Whites use to talk to and about the Blacks in the book.
Nadine Gordimer, the Nobel Prize winning author of this Booker Prize winning story, depicts her characters routinely using the language of master and servant in the most disparaging way, a kind of amused contempt exacerbated by its casual delivery.
However as the tale unfolded, the main thing I noticed about The Conservationist was the sense of isolation of this principal character, Mehring.
As the story progresses he isolates himself even more, refusing all invitations and camping out in increasing discomfort rather than participate in society.
THE CONSERVATIONIST - Nadine Gordimer (1974, Penguin Books, 272p)Li esse livro por indicação de ninguém menos que Susan Sontag (escritora e intelectual americana que virou minha mais recente obsessão ), THE CONSERVATIONIST, de Nadine Gordimer (prêmio nobel de literatura) é um romance existencialista sobre um industrial sul africano que adquire uma fazenda no interior da Africa do Sul, no final da década de 60, em pleno Apartheid.Esse livro ganhou o cobiçado prêmio britânico Booker e vi porque Sontag se apaixonou pela prosa de Nadine.
Me lembrou muito o romance São Bernardo, do Graciliano Ramos, na dissecação da alma de um velho rico e reacionário.Recomendado para quem curte literatura de altíssimo nível, com toques líricos.
Muito bom mesmo, não sei se tem tradução em portguês.
To quote Homer Simpson as he watched Twin Peaks:“Brilliant.
I have no idea what's going on.”The Conservationist is a much, much less straightforward book than July's People, and at times is this just totally weird stream of consciousness, the sort of thing that could alienate a lot of readers.
I was enthralled, absolutely enthralled.
There's a dead body, the politics of apartheid, and wave after wave of inclement weather and societal malaise.
Gordimer comes off almost as this Eastern European or French writer who somehow wound up in the terrain of South Africa.
This is what a Nobel Prize winner reads like.
Gordimer doesn't run off at the mouth into poetic culs-de-sac like some Booker winners have done in the past, but she paints beautiful pictures that make you fall a little bit in love with a land that you have (probably) never seen.
Although Mehring is not a comfortable protagonist--he is not a people person and at one point chants "My possessions are enough for me" (or something to that effect), which could make him a materialist caricature--by the time you are through with him, you have adopted his perspective implicitly and are somehow satisfied with his point of view.
The Conservationist is perhaps the subtlest Booker I’ve read thus far, and this is saying something; subtle storytelling seems to be a particularly admirable trait in the eyes of the Booker committees. In many ways, the real story of The Conservationist takes place around the edges of Mehring’s story – just as he tries to control the land but finds it growing apart from him and away from him, he can’t quite control his own story. He is never the true story, even of his own narrative. Apartheid
In many ways, the real story of The Conservationist takes place around the edges of Mehring’s story – just as he tries to control the land but finds it growing apart from him and away from him, he can’t quite control his own story.
Apartheid rules his country; it is overwhelmed with state-sanctioned violence, a quiet and guerilla war simmering within a police state, poverty, and oppression; and out in the veld, Mehring buys a farm to avoid taxes and to find peace away from the city and his failed life (an ex-wife, a son who despises him, a mistress who has since dropped from view).
Its meticulous details and documentary exactitude combine to create an elaborate web of meanings where each object detailed or evoked carries symbolic implications for the society that South Africa was at the time of the novel's publication, and which forty years later still resonate with moral relevance.
He also likes to think of himself as a nature conservationist by not altering much of the farm he has purchased, which in reality is as barren as his own moral compass and, symbolically, of the white dominant South Africa he represents.
Though it is written in the third person and occasionally provides insight into other characters' thoughts and experiences, perspective is largely limited to Mehring, a rich, white, middle-aged businessman.
Despite any judgements of his character, as readers we become deeply involved and invested in what happens to Mehring, especially as relates to the dead body that is washed up and hastily buried by authorities on his farm.
This makes for a jumbled, perplexing reading experience that, while perhaps maddening, reinforces Gordimer's non-preachy depiction of apartheid South Africa.
The Conservationist encourages thought and dialogue by forcing readers into the point of view of a character who might otherwise be oversimplified and written off as the enemy (rich, white, powerful male).
The white man with a loosely strewn together life, a farm with black workers, the divide and the mutual acceptance across the divide.The book primarily consists of self-monologues of a white millionaire in an apartheid South Africa, who buys a farm in the suburbs.
Very subtly, Gordimer has mocked this entire group of these 'comfortable' people, which were instrumental in maintaining the racial divide.At other times, she delves into the monologues of a few others - significantly the rich man's farm manager Jacobus and an old Indian shopkeeper living close to the farm.
The choice of using stream of consciousness works really well in breaking the boundaries of time, as Mehring's thoughts bounce around from one experience to another.
It shows how the only way a black man could "own" a piece of land was to be buried under it.
It shows a man who is perpetually isolating himself, finding solace only in his farm - a place where he only stays on the weekend.
The title shows how not wanting change (the end of Apartheid), is continuing the isolation - the country, of Mehring.To do this book justice, it really needs a reread.
