https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41021584-hot-ice
CHEESY!!!And if you're ok with cheese, it's not a bad book. My chief complaint is that they eat a lot of mangoes in this book...here's a quote...Pulling out a mango, he took a big, greedy bite. And they  never peel them. Obviously the author has never eaten a mango. And that bugs me, because I love mangos, and...geesh, do a little research. But I guess mangos were more exotic in the 80s, and most readers didn't know you had to peel them.So anyway.... think Romancing the Stone, and that's about the gist of this book.
Whitney MacAllister: Manhattan socialite & heiress lives at a fast jet set pace, but is so bored with her life and where its not going.
(Whitney's character was a surprise for me, far from being spoiled & air-headed as one might think) She is returning from a trip when her mercedes and herself is hi-jacked by wounded Douglas Lord who is trying to escape Dimitri's goons.
Well nothing like some adventure to spice up her hum-drum life!
A fun and fast read..the only reason it didnt get a 5 star was I would have liked a little more "romance" between Doug and Whitney..
Los disfruto mucho, y este no ha sido menos.Si tuviera que sacarle algún punto negativo, sería que quizá todo empieza demasiado deprisa y los personajes “confían” uno en el otro muy rápido, pero teniendo en cuenta lo que la historia me ha gustado, sería quisquilloso por mi parte ponerle más peso del necesario.Una de las cosas que más me ha gustado ha sido las conversaciones que mantenían los personajes.
También reconozco que el viaje por Madagascar me ha resultado muy suave, me encanta este tipo de lectura: expedición, exploración, suspense y romance.
Es fácil de leer y si te gusta este tipo de lectura, te enganchará rápido.
It just didn't do it for me. The storyline plodded along, and I couldn't like either of the main characters. There didn't seem to be a plausible reason why I should root for them. Vain, shallow, brash females don't engage me, and neither do narcissistic, immature males. I finished it because I wanted to see how it would end, but I would never reread or recommend it. The end was actually the best part...
Wow, has Nora Roberts ever gotten better in the last twenty years! I used to love her "two-word title" books which were always her mystery/romance books. I could barely make it through my 2006 re-read of "Hot Ice"! It was so repetitive, all the characters smoked a lot, and they were just dumb. What thief just gives out his name and travels with his own papers when being pursued by a Mafia God?
Definitely not one of Nora Roberts best books and the only one I've ever given less than 3 stars.
This is a story about an unrepentant thief who steals priceless documents leading to a spectacular treasure from his mob-like boss and is therefore chased basically around the world (from Manhattan to Madagascar).
The ending was the best part of the book but even that was over the top and slightly ridiculous.
However I will admit that the descriptions of Madagascar (a place I've never been) were interesting and it seems like a beautiful, if poor, place.
Nora Roberts dispensa qualquer apresentação.
Apesar de não ter dado as cinco estrelas a esta história, tenho de confessar que gostei bastante.
No entanto, foi-me complicado entrar na história, sentir-me agarrada, como habitualmente acontece com os livros de Nora Roberts.
Acho que foi mesmo o excesso de lugares, acontecimentos e a falta de mais paixão e carinho entre as duas personagens principais.
Que eles se sentiam atraídos um pelo outro não há dúvida, mas até ambos admitirem que sentiam mais do que atracção vai um longo caminho.
Muitas desconfianças entre eles e falta de empatia.Opinião Completahttp://sinfoniadoslivros.blogspot.pt/...
DNF at 20%Life's too damn short for this crap!
We vinden de mooiste schelpen, maar als ik mama dromerig in de verte zie staren, weet ik dat ze ook naar huis verlangt.
Ik hoorde papa laatst met mama over het schrikbewind praten.
Hij had het over duizenden gevangenen die eens naar de guillotine moeten.
We spreken nooit over het houten kistje onder de keuken vloerplank.Dit is een van de dagboek fragmenten waarop Whitney ( een rijke erfgename) en Doug (een meesterdief) een jacht naar de schat beginnen, een houten doosje met Juwelen behorend tot Marie- Antionette, de laatste koningin van Frankrijk.
Um ladrão profissional e uma herdeira dum império de gelados é uma dupla improvável para uma caça ao tesouro. Douglas e Whitney conhecem-se de uma forma muito peculiar e uma convergência de interesses vão levá-los numa perigosa aventura em busca de um colar que em tempos pertenceu a Maria Antonieta.
This was gifted to me from a neighbor before she passed away so reading it added an extra layer of enjoyment. I will read anything Nora Roberts writes!
3.5 STARSI came across the audio version on Overdrive and couldn't resist. It is old school Nora (everyone smokes like a freight train), but I still found it entertaining. Audio - Anna Fields is a good narrator. I wasn't in love but didn't dislike her style either.
I counted this as a mystery - and there is a mystery to be solved here - but this is truly more of a buddy comedy/action/thriller like "Romancing the Stone".
The hero and heroine are thrown together with two competing agendas against a fairly exotic (in this case, Madagascar) locale and asked to solve a historic puzzle while staying a step (or two) ahead of the bad guys.
It is a little bit predictable but it is also more than a little fun as you find yourself rooting for them and figuring out how they're going to get out of this improbable situation.
Não é pelo facto de Doug ser um ladrão sem remorsos, até porque este não é o primeiro com o qual convivemos num livro de Nora Roberts, mas sim por ter escolhido deliberadamente esta "profissão".
E eu sugiro, por exemplo, e como simples analogia, que alguém que tenha "jeito" para manobrar objectos afiados com precisão siga carreira cirúrgica e não de assassino...Por sua vez, Whitney é demasiado fútil e esta também está longe de ser a nossa estreia com personagens ricas e fúteis nos livros de Nora Roberts, mas Whitney, por se encontrar num meio tão empobrecido, abusa da nossa paciência estando constantemente preocupada com o que tem vestido, mesmo tendo em conta que corre um perigo enorme.
The adventures though were top notch with lots of action, shootouts, weapons, deductive reasoning, bad guys, good guys who happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time, untimely deaths, thefts, escapes and slips and treasures found.The descriptions of the locations that Whitney and Doug travel to are extremely vivid and I can picture the animals, the heat, the cities/towns/villages, hotels, homes, their modes of travel and the food in my mind.
Hot IceDNFNora Roberts is an incredible author who has written numerous amazing books.
The heroine is pretentious and annoying with her constant recording of how much the hero owes her down to the last cent.
The hero, a supposedly charming rogue, is nothing more than a wastrel flitting from heist to heist spending his ill gotten gains on undeserving women.
The story never fully captured my attention and it was easy to put the book aside.
I really could not care less if either the hero, the heroine or both were killed.
Fans and newbies should look elsewhere for a better Nora book.
Thief Douglas Lord, betrayed by the man who's hired him to steal valuable papers pointing the way to a lost treasure from the French Revolution, is thrust across the path of the young heirness Whitney MacAllister--who promptly decides that teaming up with Doug will be the biggest adventure of her life, and never mind his occupying the shady side of the law.Our hero and heroine journey from New York to Paris to Madagascar, staying the obligatory step or two ahead of their pursuers all the way.
Não me apaixonou mas ri-me muito com os protagonistas nesta aventura por terras de Madagáscar. Gostei da forma como Whitney e Doug se conheceram e dos diálogos entre eles (Vai a pé. ... Se há aí uma arma, eu quero vê-la. De outro modo desaparece.) E a mania de Whitney de apontar todas as despesas num bloco de notas para Doug lhe pagar? Oh, o que me ri com estes dois! Lol
Mehhhhh, I didn't really like either of the main characters - they had questionable morals and their personalities were not the type that I admire. Still a pretty entertaining read, but not as enjoyable as other Nora Roberts I have read.
Nora Roberts a escrever 'policiais', este já é o segundo. Tem ritmo, emoção, suspense e romance; resumindo, tem tudo o que eu gosto, mas também tem algumas falhas de narração imperdoáveis que podem ser da tradução, ou não !
I usually like Nora's books but I've struggled so much to get through this one. It wasn't interesting, the romance was cheesy. Overall, 2 star rating is generous of me.
Read my review on Romancing-the-Book.com by clicking on the link below:http://romancing-the-book.com/2015/04...
The historical fiction kept my intrigue with this title.
My almost last straw was the last hotel they checked into...
I did like Douglas, not sure I liked his choice word of sugar for endearment.
Douglas and Whitney are probably a perfect match and I did love the mention of literature through the title.
I just knew this was an older title written by Nora, back in a time where things were different, and so I kept my anger in check with the men.
This title was a nice fluffy suspense between my James Patterson audio craze.
Het is wat één van de andere lezers heeft gezegd, Nora Roberts heeft Romancing the Stone gezien. Het is dat ik Doug wel leuk vond, anders was het één ster geworden
This was really an exciting book. The two main characters went from one sticky situation to another. It was an enjoyable book.
Finished reading: November 2nd 2014  “You're a first-class bastard, Doug." This time he grinned because he'd heard the light trace of respect. "I like first class, Whitney. I'm going to live there the rest of my life.” (view spoiler)[I have to admit I mostly picked up a copy of this novel because I had to read a book with 'Ice', 'Frost' or 'Snow' in the title for the Bookish Bingo: Holiday Edition challenge, and the only title I could find a copy of easily was Hot Ice. The story and characters
(view spoiler)[I have to admit I mostly picked up a copy of this novel because I had to read a book with 'Ice', 'Frost' or 'Snow' in the title for the Bookish Bingo: Holiday Edition challenge, and the only title I could find a copy of easily was Hot Ice. The story and characters were on the cheesy/cliche limit of my tolerance, but in general it was an easy and entertaining read.
The treasure is not far away if only they could reach that town somewhere in Madagascar...Like I said before, Hot Ice has an interesting plot and a lot of cliche moments, but the story in general does deliver.
I've got pieces to a puzzle and I'm going to Madagascar."Beautiful, elegant, manhattan socialite Whitney Macallister finds herself placed into a unique partnership on a hunt for a long-lost treasure.
After Doug Lord, a slick, determined yet charming theif hijacked her car at a astop light in attempt to run away for bad guys; Whitney now must battle with Doug, side by side, to stay ahead of the little game entitled "death".Roberts not only takes us on an adventure, however it goes all the way into the immense culture of the Malagasy people, and into their lemur-silled jungles of Madagascar.
It wasn't...not even a little bit.I hated the characters.
She is constantly worried about her clothing and other pointless material things in the face of real danger (not to mention true poverty of the people around her some of which they steal from) but then criticizes the male character for caring to much about money.
This is the first Nora Roberts book Ive ever read I may give her another chance since her log is so massive, and I dont think she is a bad writer overall, but it wont be for a while.
If I were to say anything positive, id say that the main male character, however annoying, was aleast well written.
This book was so disappointing.
I was extremely interested in this book, don't get me wrong.
Money is the only thing important to him.
Lots and lots of money.
We never went to "restaurants" where entrees were more than $10 a plate, but DAMN I was never this greedy!
B) All the damn smoking!
I mean, I get that this book was written in the 80s, but I can't help but see this as a terribly unattractive habit both characters have.
My parents have been smoking since I was in elementary school, but I have never gotten used to the nasty, nasty aroma.So yeah, kind of a let down.
Nora Roberts is one of my favorites, and whenever I pick up one of her books, I expect great things.
I found this a little disappointing, but from any other author, I think I would have been perfectly happy with it.The plot is just plain silly in some parts, and edge-of-your-seat in others.
To give an idea: in the first chapter, bored socialite Whitney gets car-jacked by thief Doug.
Here's my ticket to excitement, thinks Whitney.
Ridiculous and good at the same time, but not ridiculously good.Definitely worth a read if you're a Nora fan, but don't expect one of her best.
