https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28768.Eden
Some books build their story like sculpting as you can see it slowly taking shape from two piece of rock to work of art.
Eden is more like photography, in small time span masterful pictures is created on what it was before just dull piece plastic and silicone (does this metaphor make sense outside my head?
Eden has masterful last chapters but before that it's dull but necessary piece plastic and silicone.
What it builds up to in those last few chapters is more than 5 stars, before than it's between 2 and 3.
Lem's theme with this book (as with Solaris, Fiasco, His Master's Voice and others) is the complete lack of understanding or commonality between human and alien intelligence.
Six astronauts crash on an alien planet about which very little is known.
Every encounter with the remnants of the alien civilization, and with the life forms themselves, leads to further confusion.
A palpable sense of creepiness came over me while reading this book.
As with much of Lem's work, this is a deeply philosophical book.
This is the second book I read by Lem. The first was The Futurological Congress ~ a work of comic genius: a brilliant combination of sci fi, philosophy, and witty word-play.
Eden has none of the humor or word-play of The Futurological Congress.
Its philosophy consists of speculations about the nature of an alien species and its civilization as well as the recognition that none of their hypotheses may be correct, that the aliens might be incomprehensible to them.
I had difficulty following some of Lem's descriptions, and that was frustrating because the first half of the book consists primarily of the crew's repair efforts and descriptions of the alien landscape and architecture.
At an earlier time, perhaps the term dictated certain ideas that we now identify as "old school" science-fiction: rockets shooting off to space, alien contact that was often, especially in the 1950's, paralleled with communism scares, exploring the universe in search of unknown planets.
Leave it to Polish science-fiction author Stanislaw Lem to spin this idea on its head, with a title like Eden that promises dream fantasies but is the story of a complete and utter nightmare in the realm of communication.
It turns out, however, that a fourth type is possible -- total indifference.Toward the end of the book, one of the Doublers sneaks into the ship and manages to communicate with the crew, revealing a society that is -- fortunately -- unthinkable on planet earth.I believe I read the last 150 pages of the book in a kind of delirium, because I was impatient to discover whether the crew of the crashed ship could make something of the odd planet upon which they found themselves.Eden is a highly original work of science fiction, one that is so imaginative that I am hard pressed to name any American authors who could match it.
Polonyali bir doktor olan Lem'in 1958 yılında yazdığı bu romanında, uzay yolculuğu yapan bir grup bilim adamının Aden isimli gezegene düşmelerini ve arızalanan uzay gemilerinin tamirini yapana kadar geçen sürede gezegeni ve içinde bulunan yaşam formlarını keşfetmeye çalışırkenki geçen sürece tanık oluyoruz.
İkinci dünya savaşında Nazi kampında kalan ve soğuk savaşa tanıklık etmiş olan yazarın kitabında da bunlara bağlı olarak o karanlık ve kasvetli etkiyi okurken sezebilirsiniz.
Gezegen sakini ile iletişim kurabildiklerinde ise anlayabildikleri, tektipleştirilmiş, yöneticisi belirsiz ve kaosun hakim olduğu, bilimin kötü amaçlar için kullanıldığı bir toplum düzeni olur.
OCENA (overall rating) ★★★✫ 3/5 starsRadnja (story) ★★★★Ideja (plot idea) ★★★★Okruženje (setting) ★★★★Pripovedanje (writing style) ★★★✫Likovi (characters) ★★★✫UTISAK (summary) - Još jedan prikaz pokušaja uspostavljanja kontakta sa vanzemaljskom civilizacijom i prokaz osnovnog problema da mi ljudi sve sagledavamo iz našeg "zemaljskog" konteksta. Likovi su arhetipovi naučnika i kao takvi zastupaju stavove u skladu sa granama nauke koje proučavaju. Odlični opisi vanzemaljske arhitekture.
OCENA (overall rating) ★★★✫ 3½/5 starsRadnja (story) ★★★★Ideja (plot idea) ★★★★Okruženje (setting) ★★★★Pripovedanje (writing style) ★★★✫Likovi (characters) ★★★✫UTISAK (summary) - Još jedan prikaz pokušaja uspostavljanja kontakta sa vanzemaljskom civilizacijom i prokaz osnovnog problema da mi ljudi sve sagledavamo iz našeg "zemaljskog" konteksta. Likovi su arhetipovi naučnika i kao takvi zastupaju stavove u skladu sa granama nauke koje proučavaju. Odlični opisi vanzemaljske arhitekture.
Eden... Raj, a może piekło dla tych, którym nie był pisany? Sam tytuł powieści sugerował mi różne pomysły na rozwiązanie fabuły, ale Mistrz zrobił to w, ma się rozumieć, o wiele lepszym stylu. Wspaniale opisana "obcość" warunków zastanych na tytułowej planecie. Bardzo dojrzała powieść, pobrzmiewa w niej coś solarisowego, a filozoficzne dysputy czyta się z prawdziwą przyjemnością. Książka intryguje od pierwszej strony i niezwykłej sytuacji, w jakiej postawiono bohaterów, aż po ostatnią. Rewelacja. 9/10
Kitab qalaktikamızda fərqli bir günəş sistemindəki planetə (Eden), qəzalı vəziyyətdə enmiş bir gəmidən və onun heyətinin həm gəminin təmiri ilə məşğul olması, həm də onların bu yad dünyanıkəşf etmə cəhdlərindən bəhs edir.
Əksinə həcmcə kiçik olmaqla yazar ortaya qoyduğu məsələlər barədə uzun müddət oxucunu düşündürən, hətta bəzi yerlərdə oxucunun doqmatik düşüncələrini yıxacaq dialoqlarla qarşımıza çıxır.Kitab boyunca yad dünya olan Edeni, yazar hər bir xırdalığına qədər təsvir etməyə çalışır; bu təsvirlərin ötəri oxunulub keçiləcək olmadığını, yeri gəldiyində daha yaxşı qavramaq üçün 2- 3 dəfə oxunulmalı olduğunu düşünürəm.
Eden yaşadığımız dünyadan təkcə astronomik vəziyyət olaraq deyil, həmçinin, canlı həyat, coğrafi quruluş, oradakı şüurlu həyatın öyrəşdiklərimizdən tamamilə fərqli bir dünyadır və yazar bunu böyük səylə təsvir edir.
They eventually make contact with two living sentient creatures, and with this there's hope of a possible breakthrough.To be sure, my main issue with the 'Eden' was not in the themes or in Lem's perspectives and conclusions, but in the overall execution.
The story only really picks up in the second half, and the principal matter is really mainly realized in the last quarter.What is this matter?
It's perhaps this attraction to the beautiful, the mysterious that forms the basis of any hope.Despite my complaints, 'Eden' is a good book for avid fans of Lem's work, but not the place to start.
The topic is a recurring one in Stanislaw Lem's universe; contact with an alien intelligence is ultimately doomed from the start.
Lem has pursued this thread throughout his works with varied success: from the beautifully crafted Eden, Solaris and the Invincible, which have equal parts adventure and philosophy, ideas and action to carry them, to his later and overly philosophical His Master’s Voice and Fiasco, which are as readable as a pile of bricks (I have personally tried and failed to finish His Master's Voice on three separate occasions).Eden is the earliest of the five works; with the most anthropomorphic and hence the most identifiable alien civilisation, which also makes its portrayal the most chilling and disturbing of all.
The imagery is raw and powerful, the ideas and associations with actual human totalitarian societies haunting.
Kitap hakkındaki görüşlerim için kurgu-bilim'e beklerim: http://www.kurgu-bilim.com/aden-eden-...
In the second (the last two chapters) they are able to communicate with an educated alien and get an appalling idea of their situation, but aren't really sure that they have understood rightly.The six mostly unnamed human characters have many discussions on intellectual and moral matters.
Finally they decide to leave without attempting to help the aliens, as they are not sure that they really need help and doubt of their ability to give it them.
A final inkling about the situation is the apparent fact that the two aliens they have contacted choose to die in the fire of their rocket take-off rather than go back to their own society.
Sprawdzając po dzisiejszym Lemconie w Artetece krakowskiej, co Lema czytałam, a co chciałabym jeszcze przeczytać, trafiłam na nieoznaczony nadal "Eden".
Ciekawe, jak wpasowałby się w prelekcję o spotkaniu z Innym/Obcym u Lema, Wattsa i Egana (Mirosław Gołuński), w której nacisk kładziono na niemożliwość porozumienia - tu akurat kontakt zostaje nawiązany, z obcym/innym można się porozumieć, ale kończy się to tragicznie, gdyż ludzie niechcący stają się przyczyną śmierci tego Obcego, który zechciał i zdołał się z nimi porozumieć.
Czy kontakt z Innym i zrozumienie bez zniszczenia, bez zmian jest w ogóle możliwy?
Przychylam się raczej do pesymistycznej wizji Lema.
At first this novel follows the typical "first contact" scenario written by Lem, typical for the author but very unusual when compared to all the other sci-fi books at that time.
Lem in his books about first contact with other civilization suggested that this contact might by just so incomprehensible that it might not be possible, achievable in the way that we as intelligent creatures could comprehend.
Solaris and The Invincible are other examples of Lem's vision of such frustrating first contacts scenarios.The book however shifts into political sci-fi, Lem at that time started to critically look at the communist era in Poland and Soviet Union.
When people think of Lem, they probably think of 'Solaris' first, as is understandable with its having been made into a movie 3 times now.
Why do the people of Earth even bother to explore space if all they're looking for is a mirror in which they can see themselves?
Written during the height of censorship in post-World War II Poland, the book features an unnamed crew who, after having crashed on the titular planet, head out across the land to explore and seek help.
Theories abound by each of the crew members, but herein lies one of the main themes of Lem's entire oeuvre.
Stanislaw Lem is still my favorite SF-author - this one is a very common Lem book, alien worlds so alien that most things that happen are and stay unexplainable; where this one comes off the usual path is that in the end, there's actually a bit of explanation!
In a nutshell, his descriptions are very technical and don't flow very well:...
a smooth slab that crumbled at the edges and was flanked on either side by slanting surfaces that bore a series of notches.(p.
Interesting take on what first contact with aliens might actually be like - the sheer incomprehensibility of something completely out of the human norm. A human ship accidentally crashes on a little-studied planet and tries to piece together the inhabitant's civilization from their own observations, knowing that the human point of view might not apply.Lem's writing is a little simplistic (perhaps due to translation), but he creates a fantastic world populated with incredible creatures and improbable things. Not his best work, but still an enjoyable read.
No one does alien like Lem: utterly incomprehensible, not just another human dressed up.However, in this one the pacing is a bit off, and the crew seem hardly qualified to explore an unknown planet.Before the final explanation, I was almost sure we had a Solaris-like scenario here, in that the whole planet was one vast organism, and the various dumb creatures worked more or less like cells in a body, so the dumbness shouldn't be a surprise. The actual reveal was, I admit, much more effective, but the buildup it needed was too much to really keep the reader's interest.
Certainly I had not read it before...I think that one of the things Lem does best is describe alien landscapes, buildings, creatures, and other incredible unknowns with a completely credible sense of their reality.
The reader is able to share the same sense of wonder and (often) ambiguous fear that the book's characters do as they strive to understand something so completely foreign that it cannot be understood.
Their need to survive as well as their all to human sense of curiousity drives them forward to learn more about this crazy planet and its inhabitants.
Ultimately they do learn a lot of facts about the planet and its history - very rare in a Lem book!
Good sci fi!
Some men land on a planet they know nothing about ("Have people landed here before?" "No, I think just some flyby probes," or something along those lines) and have no defined mission.
Of course, they set off into the world and immediately begin breaking and shooting things.
Despite this rough start, there is eventually quite a lot of ethical debate between members of the crew, and their eventual interactions with Eden's sentient life are fascinating.
The one thing I struggled with throughout the story was the simultaneously vague and over-detailed physical and geographical descriptions.
This may be an artifact of translation, I don't know.
There are some brilliant moments scattered throughout, embedded in Lem's ambivalence towards technology and the politics of complex societies.
The contrast between alien 'Procrustean' socio-biological engineering and the reassuring familiarity of 'human' science (robotics, nuclear power) could not be more horrifically stark in some ways, while their underlying uses end up being disconcertingly similar in others.
All the same he probably would not have been driven to write such disconcerting novels without being immersed in the same sea of politics to begin with.
The joys of art...The book will probably induce nightmares in some readers - but only if they can be bothered to read it to the end.
No en términos de qué nos vamos a encontrar, sino respecto a cuál va a ser nuestro comportamiento frente a semejante situación.Es un buen libro para hacerte reflexionar sobre las posibles consecuencias y escenario, aunque me he encontrado en serias dificultades a la hora de imaginar ciertos paisajes, edificios y la fisiología de los dobles.
No sé si lo hizo con intención, para crearnos esa confusión que sienten los personajes; o es que yo estaba un poco densa en esos momentos.
Podría ser un poco más ágil, aunque siendo un libro corto, podremos perdonarlo.Ahora, a ver si caen en mis zarpas Solaris y Máscara.
Ogromne wrażenie w tej pozycji Lema biorą opisy obcej planety. Trzeba nie lada wyobraźni aby okiełznać wszystkie twory autora. Podobało mi się również, że po niemrawym początku pozycja wyraźnie się rozkręca, dawkując czytelnikom kolejne wydarzenia prowodzące do finału. No i jak to u Lema nie mamy tutaj oczywistych rozwiązań znanych z klasycznych "hard s-f".Niestety dużą wadą książki są dla mnie ludzcy bohaterowie. Lem zdecydował się używać nazw zawodów zamiast klasycznie imion i szczerze mówiąc ciężko było odróżnić jakoś członków załogi (wszyscy jakby tacy sami, płascy, nijacy, no może poza Doktorem).
I found this to be a difficult but very rewarding reading experience.
When I finished it I felt as if I was waking from a years long dream.
It's (appropriately) disorienting; you're there with the characters with all the dense descriptions of an alien world, structures and life forms of which they've never conceived before.
Then the realization, the sudden understanding in the end, is heartbreaking.
It was mind-bendingly amazing!I always wonder if the descriptions in Lem's stories lose anything in the translation to English (or any other language).
I'll have to read it again someday anyway!
Politik vurgularındaki inceliği ve dehayı inkar etmemekle birlikte; bir bilim kurgu okurunun özellikle ilgisini çekebilecek bir konuyu; biraz hantal ve sıkıcı hale getirmiş Lem.Anlatımın akıcı olmamasını geçtim, ani ve heyecanlı olayları kısaca geçiştirip; uzun ve felsefi soruşturmalara sayfalar ayırmış.Karakterlerin varoluşları birbirlerinden ayırt edilemiyor. Sanki hepsi aynı karakterin farklı yansımaları gibi. Birbirlerinden ayırt edici renkleri yok. Siyah beyazlar.Solaris'i daha çok sevdim.
Po raz pierwszy przeczytałam tę książkę jakieś 25 lat temu. Mam do niej ogromy sentyment i wracam co kilka lat na powierzchnię Edenu. To wizyta, która zawsze niepokoi jakże plastycznymi opisami krajobrazów planety. Dziś rozbawiła mnie troszkę 'zaawansowana' technologia' Ziemian. W końcu, jest to jednak powieść z 1959 roku.Tak jak chyba we wszystkich książkach Lema, tak i tu znajdziemy drugie dno - przesłanie, a raczej pytania, które pojawią się w przestrzeni. I na które autor, nie po raz pierwszy nie daje nam odpowiedzi...
One of those rare science-fiction stories that accurately portrays aliens as truly 'alien'. Viewed through the perspective of the explorer crew, without explanation, the activities and mentality of the aliens are completely incomprehensible. I imagine if we ever encountered an alien race, this is pretty much exactly how it would happen.
Son sayfalara yaklaşırken, bunca olay örgüsü kalan sayfalarda nasıl bağlanacak ki, dedim kendi kendime. Açıklandı açıklanmasına ama eksik bir şeylerin hissiyatı oldu bende. Bu güzel kurguyu, aceleye gelmiş bir çözüm bölümü ile bağlamasaydı Lem keşke.
Eden is, in my eyes, the very reason why science fiction should be read - brilliantly addressing questions and themes, that are fundamentally human - about our permanent anthropocentric ways and how inapplicable they might be, all set in a vividly disturbing and unforgettable, truly alien world.
