https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93448.The_White_Plague
I don't know if the science was up to it at the time the book was written but the titular plague, which is carried by males unsymptomatically but kills all females, is more than possible today.
Terrifying.The book is very well written and engaging but I did have a couple of grumbles, the first being that Herbert utilises national stereotypes quite a bit, which was a bit irritating.
The thought 'I paid good money for your book, mate, stop being such a douche' crossed my mind more than once.Overall, though, this was a cracking read and I recommend it to fans of speculative fiction ('hard' SF), thrillers and even horror.
I actually prefer this book to Herbert's legendary "Dune".
Because it speaks in and of a world I live in.
Not cience fiction in the bastardized form we see today, but a true "speculative fiction" page-turner.
A well-written story of bio-terrorism that gets out of hand that not only deals with the detective story of how to stop the plague, but what effects will society and politics see out of it as the targeted disease breaks out of the Middle East and ravages all corners of the world?I am gratified that there has not been a badly-made Hollywood filming of this, I am not sure four hours and a box of popcorn could do it justice.
He immediatelly goes insane, and his mind shatters into different personalities, from which one is a mad man that is decided to make the world pay for what has been done to him.
In the end, it's not just about how a man's mind goes mad because his family was taken away from him, it's also about how countries react to such a threat - a plague that was created by man and released in the world without remorse.
Of course, the book was written with Herbert's usual flawless techinique, making the reader enter a world of his own, but not his own entirely.
Herbert is great at big ideas and thoroughly thinking them through, showing how each and every aspect of life and society might be impacted (see Dune).
It delves even deeper than a typical end-of-the-world story, though, by setting the villian and a few other characters on a long, quiet walk through what's left of Ireland, showing how the plague has warped life.
He also manages to show how Ireland is so immersed in its own distant past, and how these plague times will similarly be mythologized, and how that might be both good and bad.It is frustrating because the execution and characterization leave much to be desired.
When he releases the bacteria in Ireland, England and Libya, the plague begins to spread around the world and governments have to close their border and expel these countries' nationals.
Gene Splicing (drawing by Agathman)When the scientists, with the help of O'Neill's insights, find a cure, they are able to spread the knowledge without allowing any government to gain an upper hand.
Perhaps the shifting points of view reflect the disintegrating world of the white plague and we aren't meant to focus on any single character or sympathize with him or her.
Yes, we hear about the rapes of the surviving pockets of women, the sexual abuse of about 30 teens by one rich pedophiliac goat, and how certain countries at the end lend, say, one thousand of their "breeding women" to one another (America was not so generous with its cattle female stock).
Most of the book follows a bunch of angry men who, despite all they claim to the contrary, don't even care about women, never mind their women.
Despite her nursing education, she takes zero interest in the plague.
Nature creates such viruses and man has recently come a long way in regards to imitating natural catastrophes…actually, man has out staged natural catastrophes.On another note, novel presents an interesting questions in terms of what would the reduction of female population mean to mankind.
In this novel, this question about the relationship between female population and their position in society is not really answered though I have a feeling that the author thinks it could improve the power of women.
Seriously, if all man would be so eager to protect women, we’d live in a different world.
What I liked: The disease.
I liked that the invention and distribution of the disease was described as the investigators figured it out rather than as the Madman was doing it.
I liked the idea of the targeted disease.
The way the different countries failed to come together in the face of a world-wide catastrophe was plausible.
while only briefly touched on, the way the angry masses turned on scientists was believable.
while all kinds of things were happening all over the world due to the plague, they really weren't described much.
The basic tenor/plot can be summarized by this line in the book: "What did I expect?
Not this."Several issues examined:+If the world faces major calamity, will the governments fail and basic brutal survival prevail and the veneer of civilization disintegrate?+Nature and critique of terrorism and the purpose and distortions of revenge.+Do people consider the ramifications and ethics of science?+Church's role in society.+Tedious replication of retribution and the endless double-thinking of motives in politics.This book had more than a plot, it had context.
There was a focus on Irish culture/history but, as shown by the above points, much else was included.
Marvelous if somewhat (unavoidably) dated... a morality piece in sci-fi/speculative fiction clothing. The science is meticulous, given the time period in which it was written. Herbert brings his epic sense, as rendered so masterfully in the Dune books, down to Earth on a slightly smaller scale. Recommended.
I mean that I had preconceived notions about how I thought the plot would be handled, based on reading a summary of the book elsewhere.The story is about a man who is in Ireland for research purposes (he's a biologist/scientist of some sort).
Perhaps the main characters would be a family that struggles through this time, when women are dropping like flies.Imagine my surprise to find that the main character of the novel is the scientist, the Madman.
It's clear that Herbert is interested in psychology, because he spends a lot of time talking about the Madman's mind and portraying the Madman's own journey through Ireland after the plague has begun.
While in Ireland with his family, a man loses his wife and two children to a terrorist's bomb.
He is a molecular biologist, and in his grief and ensuing madness, develops and unleashes a deadly pandemic which only targets women.This is a very long novel, but the best section features John O'Neil, the biologist, and the terrorist who planted the bomb, playing an endless game of psychological 'cat and mouse' while on a trek across Ireland.
THE WHITE PLAGUE is primarily concerned with the two masterminds of the pandemic- the man who unleashes the plague, and the man who planted the bomb that began the deadly chain of events.
Gets pretty thick, towards the end - but still raises quite a few questions which aren't contemplated nearly enough in this world.A great read for anyone interested in science, philosophy, and/or medical ethics.
I give up. I cant understand, who the author hated the most when writing this: the Irish, the men, or the women. Neither am I sure he has ever talked to a real live woman.
I give up. I can´t understand, who the author hated the most when writing this: the Irish, the men, or the women. Neither am I sure he has ever talked to a real live woman.
The concept was intriguing, but the story itself was rather slow. And the ending was just very abrupt and not very concluding.But the concept itself is interesting and somewhat scary how possible it is.
I had read several of Herbert's novels before this one, but this is the one that made me put them all down forever. I live with misogyny every day. I do not read SF to find more virulent forms. No need to reread Handmaid's Tale or the rest of the genre. Atwood was at least on my side.
О'Нийл, заедно с Херити ( човекът, който е убил близките му, но той разбира се и не подозира чак до края на втори том), свещеник (закъде без пастири)и момче, олицетворяващо младата и изгубена Ирландия, изминават, подобно на номадите, носейки на гърба си всичко, което притежат, огромен път, за да стигнат до някаква лаборатория, където нашият човек светна другите умни глави как да се преборят с напастта.(Това изречение беше прекалено дълго, за да е правилно.
Не само компетентен, а необикновено надарен в опасна област на науката.“ Просто се сбърках от едни пептидни връзки, едни вируси, които инфектират бактерия, формират РНК, която пък е тъждествена с ДНК-то на вируса, при това гадният вирус се прикача именно към този участък от генетичния код в човешката яйцеклетка, който определя пола на плода като женски.
Being sentimental is when the same driver, when swerving away from the rabbit hits a pedestrian."Frank Herbert's The White Plague holds up remarkably well over the decades.
I recently took a class in genetics and the plague the "Madman" creates seems completely plausible to me.
He tries to keep it in Ireland(the bombers), Great Britain(the cause of the strife),and Libya (the training ground), but it becomes impossible to contain.The story shifts to the various scientists, governments and religious factions to see how they will all handle a world without women, or with women a scarcity, if they can find a cure in time.
("Guy's family dies, guy creates a plague to kill all the women, government creates a group to investigate it." Everything else is gravy.)Finally, the characters seemed very flat and uninteresting, and to be honest I don't remember most of them.If you need to make a book safe or prop up a wobbly table, this might be good for you, but otherwise, I wouldn't bother.*Since writing this review, I read some other reviews, and no, apparently the sexist crap gets WORSE toward the end of the book.
But I'm usually desperate for new reading material, so I decided to give it a try.The basic plot is that a crazed scientist develops a plague designed to infect and kill women.
Well, the present as of 1982, since a key plot point is the Irish Republican Army.The book was surprisingly riveting - it was almost impossible to put down until I was about three-fours of the way through.
With most women dead, and the major character in an incredibly bleak situation, the book became awfully hard to read towards the end.
And I found the ending itself quite unpleasant.
I wanted to be able to find something that I could point too and say, "That couldn't really happen." But people can be just selfish and horrible, and Herbert illustrates that well.My main problem with the book is Herbert's treatment of women.
There are very few women in the story (for a reason that becomes obvious PDQ), but the one woman in the spotlight is just a weak character, relying on her male counterpart and generally obsessing about unimportant "woman" things.This would be great to read right before A Handmaid's Tale.
It could almost serve as a precursor to Margaret Atwood's book, giving the handmaid's environment more history.
Eventually, the modern world turns into a very savage place and finally a matriarchal society for the single woman left to every then thousand living men.Even though I liked the plot, it occurred to me after reading this that I do not like Frank Herbert's style.
I didn't mind the constant jumping of scenes, but I did not like how little attention he paid to any individual character and how some of them would be left out of the story for ages at a time.
The only character you got a real feel for was John ONeil, but I wanted to have more attention paid to Beckett, Kate, Steven and the priest.

An interesting "end of the world" sci-fi novel, that deals with human caused disaster. Since it was one person that caused the disaster - sort of on purpose - we would probably call it a terrorist novel these days. But the novel delves into what happens when one person who tries to strike back at terrorists (the IRA in this case) goes tragically wrong. I was not a big fan of Frank Herbet's Dune (I know blasphemy). But I loved this book.
John O'Donnell makes it to plague filled Ireland and takes a months long trek with Herity, Father Michael and the Boy to make it to the lab.
The premise is that one man can create a plague that infects everyone, kills women and leaves men as carriers and is so virulent it's unstoppable.
So if they find a cure it's "Great, humanity is saved" and if they don't it's "Oh, well, at least O'Neill got his revenge." If there is such a thing as speed reading this is the ideal novel for it.
A brilliant premise: a plague that targets women only.
So how such a great story could be made so boring is a wonder.
It's almost as if Herbert decided to write about anything and everything that wasn't actually to do with the plague or its effects.
Okay, even that could have been made interesting if we'd been privy to their conversation about the virus, but no, we got pages and pages about how they looked, their accents, their physical quirks.
Wherever the action was, we were guaranteed to be focusing on somewhere else, some tiny, irrelevant and boring detail.
Not a very good book at all. I had high hopes for this book and was let down. I pushed thru to the end regardless
Its strength is also its weakness - in working hard to keep the story moving and keep the scope global, it lacks a central focus.
It also suffers from a regrettable case of being OBE, what with no more soviet union and the advance of medical technology.This probably sounds like a negative review at this point, but really I'd recommend this book for anyone looking for a lighter but still serious and mature science fiction read.
You won't be bored, nor will you be ensconced in the layers of intrigue you might expect from Herbert after reading Dune.
"Белая Чума" как и все прочие произведения Мастера это не просто история о том, как что-то происходит: повествование охватывает как глобальную картину творящегося в мире хаоса и вынужденного отмирания цивилизованной шелухи с переходом к старым добрым законам природы (пусть победит сильнейший), так и странствие О'Нейла по последнему прибежищу обреченной нации в поисках собственного душевного успокоения.Фрэнк Герберт занимается практически невозможным - созданием психологического портрета ирландской нации, её главных достоинств и недостатков.
Разумеется, в голову начинает закрадываться мысль о том, какую именно нацию Фрэнк Герберт ассоциировал с фрименами :)Шедевр
O’Neill disappears for a large portion of the novel’s opening third, during his curation of the White Plague.
The geopolitical consequences of a single nation owning a race-saving medical cure is explored in a way that feels both real and terrible.
“The White Plague” succeeds in a real, consequential way in discussing how our modern world might react to tragedy on a scale beyond that of our recent wars.
As a human drama, however, it is heavy-handed and thin.
