https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76431.Just_Another_Kid
I needed a plane book so bought this for one pound in Asda.
Thought it'd be an easy read.
Not great literature and the author is a little me, me, I'm so good but the book was totally, totally engaging.
Could not put it down and despite being surrounded by demanding munchkins had pretty much finished it at the end of the flight.
It details the author's work with special needs kids and with a "special" parent battling alcoholism.
Absolutely fascinating and a must read.
I'm gutted that the library have none of her stuff here as I want to read them all.
He has obsessions with things like long blond hair, and cats, and will NOT leave them alone, constantly asking drawing and touching his obsessions.Leslie, a seemingly unwanted child, who lives with her mother and step-father.
He is the one to leave the classroom for a normal class first, followed by Shemona and Mariana.Ladbrooke, though an adult has some problems of her own, and asks Torey if she cam help in the classroom, and become an assistant teacher.
This story centers more on her relationship with a parent who becomes an aide in the classroom.
Ladbrooke, the parent/aide, has hidden demons of her own.
She feeds off Torey Hayden in same fashion as the children.
Ladbrooke repeats through the novel that she is "just another kid" in the classroom.
I liked this novel because it demonstrates how abused/neglected children function as adults when they do not receive help.
I also liked it because it offered another side of Torey Hayden.
I do not think this was Hayden's best novel, mostly because I did not fall in love with any of the characters.
As with Hayden's other books, her writing style is easy and engaging. I read it in one afternoon, as I was unable to disengage from the story and characters. Hayden's choice of career was definitely the right path, and her choosing to write about it was another bonus, for those of us who have found her books. I recommend all her books. You cannot help but feel for the children and parents of these sometimes lost cases. Thank goodness for teachers like Torey Hayden.
Another Torey Hayden special. Her books are like crack.
Not nearly as terrible as I fully expected it to be; quite readable actually.
I'm sickened by the plethora of this type of book in recent years: Disney-eyed kid on the cover, some allusion to abuse, and invariably the word "child" or a synonym in the title.
But this book forced me to examine my logic: is it not worse for authors of outright fiction to dabble in a culture for research purposes, without actually doing anyone any good?
But, as I said, quite readable.
Maybe I'm missing a whole tonne because I've read the readers digest version.Overall, I really enjoyed reading the book about the situation with Lad and how it unfolded.
I guess I wanted to know more on what happened to all of them but a little bit of unsolved mystery can be a good inclusion for a book.I don't actually suggest books like these to people going through hardships in life because now-a-days a lot of the hardships comes with financial insecurity on top of it.
It's a good book for people who wants to read something heart warming, about growing up and overcoming hardship.
This book is really irritating. Torey Hayden obviously has a messiah complex. While I liked some of the stories about her students, her meddling in places where she doesn't belong, self-satisfaction in her chosen career and smug belief that she not only can--but should--try to "save" everyone she encounters pretty much ruined this one for me. I know a lot of people enjoy Hayden's "Special Ed Chick Lit," but I just. couldn't. stand. her.(Two stars because the stories about her students made up for the author's being beyond irritating.)
Although an interesting read, the story focuses more on Torey's relationship with Ladbrooke than any of the children. If it had been meant to be that way, I would have certainly given it 5 stars, but since the children seem more like a background story than the main story, it isn't as good a read as I had hoped for.
One more excellently told story from inside a very special Special Education classroom filled with emotionally challenged children. This story includes an adult with very real emotional needs. Loving all the Torey Hayden books. How did I miss these all these years?! Inspiring and compelling reading.
selain itu, aku juga membaca tentang seorang anak laki-laki yang punya gelaja skizofrenia anak sehingga tidak bisa mengontrol dirinya untuk tidak melakukan stimulasi diri yang berlebihan, seperti masturbasi di ruangan kelas.
akan tetapi, baru di tengah menuju akhir aku menyadari, yang dimaksud murid istimewa adalah seorang ibu, orang tua salah satu siswa yang memiliki masalah kecanduan alkohol dan kehidupan perkawinan yang tidak bahagia melamar menjadi asisten Torey di dalam kelas.
ia pada awalnya, memang menjalankan tugasnya dengan baik sebagai asisten, namun ia juga memiliki masalah yang berbeda dan membutuhkan bantuan Torey, seakan-akan ia jadi salah satu murid Torey di kelas.
Torey Hayden is a psychologist who has returned to America because of a visa issue.
The class starts out with only 3 children, but soon adds another 3 having come from the turmoil in Ireland/England - 1970's/80s.
One of the children's mother becomes a real challenge for Torey.
In not knowing quite how to deal with the mom, the mother (timidly) volunteers to help Tobey in the classroom...something Torey desperately needs (help), but not sure if this mom is able to actually give the kind of help she needs.
The mom is "just another kid." Torey's wisdom and ability to deal with the issues of (all) these "kids" is amazing.
Buku ini bercerita tentang pengalaman Torey yang diminta mengajar sebuah kelas sembari menunggu Visa nya turun. Beragam hal terjadi di kelas ini, mulai dari anak yang sulit mengendalikan diri, tidak bisa fokus, Dirkie yang selalu membuat onar. Sampai pada suatu hari Torey mendapat asisten yang kemudian menjadi "murid istimewa" Torey. Buku ini mengajarkan tentang kesabaran, manusia-manusia "luar biasa" dan cara penanganan yang luar biasa pula. Kita harus menerima mereka sebagai bagian dari kehidupan kita. Dan "menyingkirkan" mereka bukanlah cara terbaik untuk mereka melainkan dengan bimbingan yang tepat. salute to Torey Hayden
Torey Haydens memoir is well written, touching and inspiring.
It is a true reflection of how teachers who care touch the lives of their students and can create a ripple effect of change.
I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys a good page turner.
The relationship she developed with her students and with Landbrook furthered her ability to help them.
Ultimately the reader discovers that Landbrook, while a parent of one of her students, is “just another kid” who needed help discovering her own disability in order to develop her voice and gain control of her life.
This book came up as a recommendation for me. I was interested when I saw "Northern Ireland" and "children suffering in the aftermath of war." The author teaches six special needs children for one year. She also "helps" the mother of one of her emotionally disturbed students overcome alcoholism. In one (school) year. Without training or any real knowledge about alcoholism. The telling of it all seemed at times self-aggrandizing and a bit flakey. While the actual, caring work is admirable, I just felt that this story is too simplistic. Not exactly my cuppa tea.
#259Read by Krishttp://readingwithkaren.blogspot.com/...
Dobbiamo accettare le persone per quello che sono non per quello che vorremmo fossero
Akhirnya rampung bacanya. berakhir dengan.... ya sudahlah... seperti biasa. Akhir pelajaran selalu menjadi kenangan manis :| berharap ada bukunya yang mempertemukan Torey lagi dgn murid-muridnya.
Another fantastic book by this author. I love that it explains all the children's problems rather than focusing on one child and that it also included the adults relationship as well. I liked that the epilogue covered what had happened to the children briefly as I was curious to know
This was definitely my favorite book of hers so far. Wow!
Mais uma vez deparamo-nos com outro ano letivo de Torey Hayden. Este ano, porém, para além das crianças na sala de aulas, Torey tem uma assistente voluntária muito inesperada que acaba por se tornar numa amiga. Neste livro podemos ter também um vislumbre pessoal da vida de Torey. Achei interessante, embora não tenha sido dos meus favoritos definitivamente. Ainda assim, uma boa leitura.
Hayden (born May 21, 1951 in Livingston, Montana) is a child psychologist, special education teacher, university lecturer and writer of non-fiction books based on her real-life experiences with teaching and counselling children with special needs.Subjects covered in her books include autism, Tourette syndrome, sexual abuse, fetal alcohol syndrome, and elective mutism (now called selective mutism), her specialty Torey Hayden's book "Just Another Kid" is not just another book.
Torey didn't set out to write about Ladbrooke in JUST ANOTHER KID.
But as the book progressed, Torey was surprised to find it had become Ladbrooke's story.
inizialmente si presentano come due sorelle molto affiatate, Shemona non parla e Geraldine sembra fare da tramite fra lei e il mondo, ma la realtà è ben diversa.Shamie è il cugino delle due sorelle, stessa storia tranne che non è orfano, ma ha subito minacce in irlanda ed è stato mandato in un posto sicuto (gli zii), non è molto sveglio, ma ha principalmente solo problemi di inserimento.fino a qui i bambini ma stranamente il titolo non si riferisce a nessuno di loro.
In each of Hayden's books (or at least the ones that take place in a classroom), you're introduced to the kids, and all of them have their specific issues; throughout the book, Hayden talks about helping each one of them improve (as much as they can).
Eventually, Leslie's mother begins helping Hayden in the classroom as an aide, and we learn that she is the kid - she and Hayden begin developing...
I think my sister would have really liked this one, more than most of the other Hayden books, partly because of the interaction between Hayden and Ladbrooke (Leslie's mother).
I've read two previous of Torey Hayden's books; the first one titled One Child and a more recent one where she goes back and tries to re-connect with the child from One Child with mixed results.
This mother is very troubled and an alcoholic and has some run ins with Torey.
Torey certainly needs an aide, and the mother, Ladbrooke, needs to have something productive to do and someone to look out for her.
She does surprisingly well with the kids and bonds with Torey.
Five years after the end of this book they are still friends, both are married and have new babies.
In this book, Torey Hayden teaches a challenging class for emotionally disturbed children consisting of Shamie, Geraldine and Shemona, three refugees from Northern Ireland, one of whom (Shemona) is an elective mute; Dirkie, who has schizophrenia; Mariana, who is sexually precocious but academically behind; and Leslie, also autistic and unable to communicate.
Hayden could badly use an aide, and she accepts Leslie's mother, Ladbrooke, who is a beautiful but aloof women with a history of alcoholism and child abuse.
Through their relationship, Ladbrooke comes to trust Hayden and begins to face up to her problems.
Through working with the children, Ladbrooke develops considerable self-esteem.

Torey Hayden isn't just another teacher she helps the most troubled kids with life, helping them and their families reconstruct.
In this book, there re 6 kids, and one adult.
In Twilight Children, also by Torey Hayden, she helps 3 kids with life, and learning the basic steps to be a "special" child.
Still she helps them and cares for them as if they were hers.
I loved this book.
5 Stars, I hope to read the other books in her "series" Somebody else's kids, ghost girl and Murphy's boy.
She is an amazing writer and I love her books to death.
^-^I don't know what i will do in a class with a child like Shemona, Geraldine, Dirkie, Leslie, Mariana, Shamie; but i agree that these little children not only need conducive environment but they also need help from others.
We can't only receive them whatever they are but we must try to give a chance for them to change.
or about Geraldine, is she can change her concept about war...
If I just read this book can feel like this, I think it's will be so hard being Torey who really connect with them for a year.
The ending of the book was satisfying if not a little sad to learn of how things turned out for one of the children.
It was a great book that I had a hard time putting down and as with all of her other books I felt like I got to know them all personally and the ending brought a sense of sadness to me.
But as with all of the books I think I could tell you about each child without a problem they are the kind of children that you have a hard time forgetting they are extraordinary and I think these books these stories are a reminder that kids are amazing they are resilient and they so deserve to be treasured no matter what.
