https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104627.Krapp_s_Last_Tape_Embers
These two pieces are both one-man acts and in both cases the men are haunted by the voices of the past, but Beckett never illustrates such things in straightforward ways.Beckett makes me think more than most writers do. And that’s kind of important. His plays never really say anything. They don’t give you their meanings, you are left to fill in the gaps their emptiness evokes. There’s always some form of silence, something not quite said.  Krapp’s Last Tape “Perhaps my best years are gone. When
These two pieces are both one-man acts and in both cases the men are haunted by the voices of the past, but Beckett never illustrates such things in straightforward ways.Beckett makes me think more than most writers do.
None of them are happy and they all seem to be existing in a space devoid of the joy they once felt at an earlier time, memories haunt them as they suffer through madness and life absent from any real feeling.
Krapp sits in a dark room thinking about bygone days, as he records his last tape, he is ready to move on and take a drastic action.
The play starts with a late evening in the future.We witness, Krapp, an old man, sitting at a table with a tape recorder and a number of boxes containing reels of recorded tapes.
So, while the white light focuses on life/consciousness of self, the darkness may focus on the nothingness, both albeit existing together.
No, I wouldn't want them back.Could it mean that he renounced all the worldly pursuits including happiness in order to attain self realization?We are to understand from these words that this is the last tape that he has recorded, for he has finally arrived at the understanding.
- EmbersPerhaps I was too young when I first read this book decades ago, two one man plays about old men looking back at their lives, about profound loneliness and failure.
In Krapp's Last Tape (1958) a seventy year old man sits alone in a dingy room listening to reel-to-reel tapes he had made thirty years earlier, and his earlier self had just listened to tapes made when he was still a young, hopeful and ambitious lad.
روایتی کوتاه از مردی که در سالهای مختلف زندگی صدای خود را ضبط کرده و گاه بهگاه خاطراتش را مرور میکند و حالا در شصت و نه سالگی از فضای امیدوار سیونهسالگی خود خیلی دور است. درست همانطور که در سیونهسالگی خوشخیالیهای چند سال پیشتر خود را باور نداشت، با این تفاوت که حالا ظاهراً دیگر حتی تلاش در این راستا را ناممکن میبیند، هر چند همین پناهبردن به خاطرات گذشته را میشود آخرین تیری دانست که در تاریکی میاندازد بلکه کمی حس خوشبختی کند.
روایتی کوتاه از مردی که در سال‌های مختلف زندگی صدای خود را ضبط کرده و گاه به‌گاه خاطراتش را مرور می‌کند و حالا در شصت و نه سالگی از فضای امیدوار سی‌ونه‌سالگی خود خیلی دور است. درست همان‌طور که در سی‌ونه‌سالگی خوش‌خیالی‌های چند سال پیش‌تر خود را باور نداشت، با این تفاوت که حالا ظاهراً دیگر حتی تلاش در این راستا را ناممکن می‌بیند، هر چند همین پناه‌بردن به خاطرات گذشته را می‌شود آخرین تیری دانست که در تاریکی می‌اندازد بلکه کمی حس خوشبختی کند.
اولین کتابم در سال دو هزار و هیفده
Loved the concept of Krapp's Last Tape- a Beckett play that revealed the most meaning on a first read. Can't say I understood Embers- re-read is on the list ;)
Decidedly some of Samuel Beckett’s most underrated works, Krapp’s Last Tape and Embers delve deeply into our notions of reality and of the self.
Krapp’s Last Tape, a play in which a now old man, Krapp, revisits his youth through a series of tape recordings he has made of himself, allows the reader to explore the quasi-endless different ‘skins’ we have inhabited, suggestive of the quite ancient idea that we are never the same individual at two distinct moments in time, but rather, two distinct individuals altogether.
" With all this darkness round me I feel less alone." * Regression, according to Sigmund Freud, is a defense mechanism leading to the temporary or long-term reversion of the ego to an earlier stage of development rather than handling unacceptable impulses in a more [adaptive] way.
The defense mechanism of regression, in psychoanalytic theory, occurs when an individual's personality reverts to an earlier stage of development, adopting more childish mannerisms.
Which is another argument in proving how multi- layered Beckett's work is and every time I read it, I'm sure I'll find something new under the initial feeling of melancholy, regret or maybe even losing sight of your own life.

Krapps's Last Tape: http://youtu.be/uphqyjAkYIUFrom wiki: Krapp's Last Tape is a one-act play, in English, by Samuel Beckett.
With a cast of one man, it was written for Northern Irish actor Patrick Magee and first titled "Magee monologue".
It was inspired by Beckett's experience of listening to Magee reading extracts from Molloy and From an Abandoned Work on the BBC Third Programme in December 1957.[1]The play was first performed as a curtain raiser to Endgame (from 28 October to 29 November 1958) at the Royal Court Theatre, London, directed by Donald McWhinnie and starring Patrick Magee.
کتاب رو یک بار دیشب خوندم و یک بار هم امروز و یقیناً باز هم بارها اون رو خواهم خوند.روایت بسیار کوتاه از این تنهایی غمانگیز کراپ و امید از دست رفتۀ او برای رسین به خوشبختی...—------------------------------------------—از متن کتاب:خیلی دوست دارم بلند شم و چند قدمی بزنم و باز برگردم اینجا... به خودم: کراپ! -ص 10شاید بهترین سالهای عمرم گذشته. اونوقتها امیدی به خوشبختی داشتم. امّا دیگه نمیخوام اون روزا برگردن. نه، دیگه نمیخوام اون سالها برگردن. -ص 20
کتاب رو یک بار دیشب خوندم و یک بار هم امروز و یقیناً باز هم بارها اون رو خواهم خوند.روایت بسیار کوتاه از این تنهایی غم‌انگیز کراپ و امید از دست رفتۀ او برای رسین به خوشبختی...—------------------------------------------—از متن کتاب:خیلی دوست دارم بلند شم و چند قدمی بزنم و باز برگردم این‌جا... به خودم: کراپ! -ص 10شاید بهترین سال‌های عمرم گذشته. اون‌وقت‌ها امیدی به خوشبختی داشتم. امّا دیگه نمی‌خوام اون روزا برگردن. نه، دیگه نمی‌خوام اون سال‌ها برگردن. -ص 20
The memories float back to him from times long gone.
He just sits their dutifully playing his tapes, reliving his past whilst dying in solitude.
There is beauty in it mostly the beauty of reliving your own memories of times happier and long gone but without sadness that usually accompanies them.
Life is not only pointless but it is downright absurd as well to top it off.
You can see life as one big Monty Pyton sketch if you must.
Sure there is sadness, despair, longing etc.
Knock.” “Who is there?” “The meaning of life.” silence.
This is a short and tantalizing one-act play during which a sixty-nine year old curmudgeonly man listens to audio tapes that he recorded in the past, each chronicling the events of one year of his life.
Beckett explores dualities throughout – isolation and community, hope and despair, ambition and failure.
The set, the characterization, and the dialogue are all very spare, almost stark, in keeping with the themes Beckett explores.
If one keeps a journal, one cannot help reflecting on the reasons for doing so, particularly if one is prone to reread entries from years back and ponder the differing ways in which life was anticipated and actually turned out.
Heartbreaking. Here's one version, directed by the author himself: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fI9k2v...
شاید بهترین سال های زندگیِ من رفته باشند. وقتی که هنوز بختی برای خوشبخت شدن بود. ولی نمی خوام که این سال ها دوباره برگردند. نه با اون آتشی که حالا در من هست. نه، نمی خوام این سال ها دوباره برگردند.
I love Beckett, and this was no exception.
Having recently read ‘Waiting for Godot’ (and having since booked up to go see it performed in Dublin), to be told ‘Krapp’s Last Tape’ was on my university reading list was of great excitement to me.Beckett is able to pack in so much commentary in so few pages, that I may be able to spend the rest of the evening picking this one apart.
I certainly would like to, by any means.There is the right amount of ambiguity here to encourage conversation.
Indeed to what meaning of “last” does the title refer?
This play is short, sweet, and ineffably sad.
It tells of his breakup with his girlfriend some thirty years ago.
But under us all moved, and moved us, gently, up and down, and from side to side."On one hand, Krapp says of his former self: "[H]ard to believe I was ever as bad as that.
Thank God that's all done with anyway." And yet he is visibly touched as he quotes fragments of his old self.
And finally, and finally:Perhaps my best years are gone.
But I wouldn't want them back.
No, I wouldn't want them back.Like hell he wouldn't.

The "plight" of the character in this story reminded me of my situation not to long ago.
I was reading and re-reading old journals of mine that started as early as junior high.
I originally was just reading the journal I kept while I was in Iraq fro a story I'm writin gbut then I began to read other journals.
Like Krapp, I laughed at my foolish young ambitions and brooded over past romance.
Really made me think about how often I dwell on the past and relive moments in my mind...rather pointless endeavers.
This play focuses on an old man, who on his birthday listens to a tape he had made on a previous birthday, in this case his 39th birthday.
I've read a lot of drama this semester for different classes, but this is one of the best plays I've ever read.
It's fascinating to read the scene, with only one character present, and Beckett's talent really shines through.
If you're not a fan of Beckett or of drama in general, I can understand that this might seem confusing, or you may not like it, but if you've read a lot of drama, you should definitely pick this up.
I found this play to be very interesting as has both comedic and tragic elements. The main character, Krapp, is a bitter old man who cannot stop eating bananas and drinking. However, he slips on his own banana peel and and goes through three bottle of liquor in one sitting. The play have a dualism to it between light and dark that causes the reader to view things as present as represented by the light (both spacially and time-wise) and absent/past as represented by dark. I hope in my own writing to include so many details in my own writing.
This is my second Samuel Beckett in recent months, and I know he is one of the greats of English literature, but I cannot relate. "Krapp's Last Tape" was one of four monologues all dealing with similar themes --old age, memories, light and dark, loneliness. Perhaps loneliness is not the right word -- rather the sense that man is alone. Beckett's gloomy outlook on life just doesn't speak to my cheerful outlook on life.
آخرین نوار کراپ، نمایش نامه ی ست تک پرده ای که تنها یک شخصیت دارد؛ "کراپ" در یک تک گویی بلند در طول یک شب، از گذشته و حال خود، و افکارش در مورد آینده، چیزهایی می گوید، که گاه روی نوار ضبط می کند، و گاه به نوارهای ضبط شده ی قبلی گوش می دهد، انگاری که پیوسته با گذشته و حال خود در گفتگوست. این نمایش نامه هم مثل اغلب کارهای مهم بکت به فارسی ترجمه شده، منتها به یاد ندارم که منتشر هم شده باشد. در مورد "تیاتر ابزورد" اینجا را بخوانیدhttp://www.goodreads.com/author_blog_...
This is the only Beckett play I've seen performed- reading it I liked it well enough, and thought it had a lot of pretty bits, but guessed that it probably was too lacking in plot or action to play well; on stage (performed by amateurs at a local "irish fair", what's more) it was much more moving than I ever could've expected.
It was far more comprehensible than Beckett's most works. The passages explaining Krapp's attitude are easy to be imagined and very precise. Nothing intense or to be called absurd in their structure. But the monologues and the record on the tape aren't strong and beautifully-complicated. Somehow empty, according to me. Just like Krapp's own mood.
i LOVE sam beckett...think he was an absolute genius! this play is great--one man, one tape machine...a million memories and thoughts...if i had my way, i would direct and star in this play, off-broadway or someplace...maybe my house?
I dont think this is much good in terms of reading. these short works are obviously meant to be experienced performed, and its very short and and so on. I love Beckett so whatever limitations they are not shortcomings. His later short works are as brief as my shorts. Very liberating somehow.
the setting just welcomed me to enter the world of theater which now is one of my interest. I still digging on the concept of something between man and women. Krapp really done it in his own way. such a solid personality.
I love Beckett. When I want a lot of Beckett, I read the Mallory novels. When I want a normal amount of Beckett, I read Happy Days or Endgame. When I just need a Beckett fix, I read one of his short works. KRAPP'S did the job splendidly.
