https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10335318-destiny-of-the-republic
When I read about the Candice Millard book on James Garfield I was instantly intrigued.
Doctor Bliss, the self-appointed lead doctor on the Garfield case, insisted the bullet was on the right side and would only allow Bell to scan the body on that side.
If Bell had been allowed to do a full scan they would have found that the bullet was on the left side and possibly would have given Garfield a chance at life.
Here is the link to his review: Byrnes Garfield reviewScott Miller wrote a book about the McKinley assassination that works great as a companion read to the Candice Millard book.
In a VERY SHORT PERIOD OF TIME I've read books about 3 American Past Presidents....I'm pleased to say....
It's no 'accident' that 3 books in a row about Past Presidents of the United States have been juicy enjoyable 'true' stories!
( it's toward the beginning of the this book) .....Garfield went to College with the $17 his mother had saved for him.
.....I found the story about Garfield and his wife Lucretia fascinating.
As valuable as any fiction story!!!!.....as we dive deeper into the book --- it becomes very clear why the title includes the words madness, medicine, and murder of a President.
Garfield 'became' President.
If you're like me, I'll bet you haven't given President James Garfield much thought either.
Honest, thrifty, salt-of-the-earth, up from the farm, a true man of the people in the spirit of Abraham Lincoln, a scholar and a gentleman, respectful and progressive in his attitudes toward blacks, magnanimous toward his enemies, he did not seek power, but found it thrust upon him, and had he lived, the case is made, might have been a truly great President.
All of this happened in 1880 and 1881 (and in the 3 years that followed with Arthur), and is great fun to learn about.
Candice Millard, the  dishy author of The River of Doubt: Theodore Roosevelt’s Darkest Journey, here follows the paths of two men, the ill-fated president, James A Garfield, and the man who would see to his end, Charles Guiteau.
Millard offers not only a window into the personal and political history of Garfield, a literal log-cabin Republican, we also get a look at the time.
We get a look at the medical sorts who dove in when the president was shot, some reasonable, and some determined to place their own interests above the health of Garfield.
"There would come a time when the story of James Garfield's early life would be widely admired.
When denied what he felt was his right, Guiteau would then take matters into his own hands with the excuse of "divine inspiration", and rid the Americans of this president who he claimed was a "danger to his party and his country".
There is perhaps one part of the book that may be a bit dry to readers less interested in the politics of the time, but this is really just a small portion of the entire account.
Guiteau was hyper religious and delusional, his chief delusion being convinced that newly-elected President Garfield owed him a job as American consul in Paris.
On July 2, 1881, Guiteau ambushed Garfield at the Baltimore & Pacific Railroad Station in Washington, D.C. The assassin fired two shots at point blank range, one of which entered Garfield’s back and lodged behind his pancreas.
Guiteau's ambush of Garfield Thus enters the third major character of this saga, Dr. Doctor Willard Bliss.
Right up until Garfield gasped his last, Dr. Bliss was telling everyone who’d listen that the President was going to be fine.
There's also great stuff on the history of medicine, including how long it took before American doctors believed in the importance of sterile instruments and in the dangers of infections in wounds.One of the frustrating side effects of reading a lot of history is realizing how many times that things should have turned out differently.
In this case, James Garfield was a smart, thoughtful, kind and considerate man who worked hard at being a good leader and president.
If you're new to Millard's work, I also highly recommend her books Hero of the Empire, which is about a young Winston Churchill, and The River of Doubt, which is about a crazy trip Teddy Roosevelt took down the Amazon.
He suffered greatly in the mix of it and in the subsequent aftermath.In regard to Garfield......A petal that falls from a budding flower hardly diminishes the beauty and the intention of that flower.
It is, in my humble opinion, that in 2016 we may have experienced a different America in the years following his presidency if this man had lived.Garfield came upon the presidency by sheer happenstance.
His brilliant mind pushed him from being a janitor at the university to becoming its president two years later.
Garfield suffered in unspeakable ways.Destiny of the Republic reads much like a novel.
I learned a lot of facts from this account of the 1881 Garfield assassination, and I was moved by the plight of good people handicapped by the lack modern advances in presidential security and medical care.
But we never get much detail on the efforts of more enlightened doctors to wrest control of the case from the dishonest quack Dr. Bliss who took over the case, and the device invented by Bell proved ineffective and would not have helped with Garfield’s care if it was.A significant portion of the book is devoted to the life and madness of Garfield’s assassin, Charles Guiteau.
If a mentally ill person had not been able to get his hands on a gun, the secret service was doing the job that it does today, if doctors didn’t consider the science of antisepsis the way the anti science crowd considers climate change today, Ohio would have had a significant president in James A.
Unimaginable today.A delusional man with a gun walked up to President Garfield at a train station one day and shot him in the back.
He would have lived if they did nothing; the doctors killed him as much as the assassin did.He was a great man; I wonder what would have been different if he had finished his presidency?
This well-written and tragic story has been revised and can now be found in a place of honor at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud.
What a testament to her skills as a writer and historian.I knew the basics about President James Garfield, and a little about his assassin, however, Millard's in-depth characterization of Garfield makes me sad for two reasons.
That was certainly the case with "Destiny of the Republic".The real magic of this text is how seamlessly Millard weaves the tale of President Garfield with the events of the times, the mental illness of his eventual assassin (Charles Guiteau) the genius of Alexander Graham Bell, and the arrogance of the medical establishment, especially in her depiction of the physician chiefly responsible for Garfield's medical care after he was shot, Dr. D.
Reading the Presidents: POTUS #20 – James GarfieldWhat a great way to start out my mission to get to know the presidents!  Candice Millard  does a great job of interweaving the stories of multiple characters (à la Erik Larson in The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair that Changed America):  James Garfield ,  Charles Guiteau  (his assassin), and (to a lesser extent) Alexander Graham Bell. Toss in some history of science/medicine, some solid info on the early days of t
Toss in some history of science/medicine, some solid info on the early days of the M'Naghten rule, a few menacing politicians/villains (I was constantly picturing Roscoe Conkling tapping his fingers in an evil pyramid over in the corner), and you've got yourself an entertaining and informative read.Over the course of this book, I not only became somewhat of a Garfield fan-girl (he had me at his proof of the Pythagorean theorem), but was awestruck by the audacity and outlandishness (and reality of) delusional stalker thinking exemplified by Guiteau.
Millard's story of Garfield, his life and his death by assassination read like a novel.
Another thing hard to imagine was that candidates did not typically campaign on their own behalf.
Bell worked to invent a metal detector to find the bullet without probing, but Bliss confined Bell's search to the wrong side of Garfield's body.
I see there are numerous footnotes (and maybe pictures?) that I missed, so on to check out the print book from the library!Update Oct 28 I just learned that PBS broadcast a documentary on Garfield in February of this year (2016) called Murder of a President.
Garfield, and the political, scientific, and medical theories and practices of the day.Garfield is one of those Presidents that many Americans (including me prior to reading this book) just don't know much about.
I have never had the Presidential fever; not even for a day." (James Garfield) After only four months in office, Garfield was shot by Charles Guiteau, a mentally unstable man who had been trying to receive a political appointment from Garfield.
Nearly 20 years prior to Garfield's shooting, Dr. Charles Lister of England had developed a theory about germs and the necessity of sterilization in medical procedures.
The speaker was James A.
Garfield who was not interested in running for President at all, and he had no desire to become the leader of the Nation.
Garfield may have become a great President if for no other reason that he never wanted the job.
In March 1881, Garfield was elected the 20th President of the United States, and was soon shot in the back by a madman on July 2nd.
This is the story of James A.
Surprisingly very good audiobook. Who ever knew anything about this president?Highly recommend for those that like history and politics. Just terrific.5 out of 5 stars.
(Location 1477) Millard structures her book with chapters alternating between Garfield and the assassin Charles Guiteau.
When he took his demands to Senator John Logan of Illinois, Logan would later recall:  “I must say that I thought there was some derangement of his mental organization.” (Location 1802) After the shooting, Guiteau was convinced that General Sherman would free him from jail and Vice-President Chester Alan Arthur would, as newly elevated President, reward him.
It also describes the personality and motivations of Charles Guiteau, his assassin.This book brought tears to my eyes, due to the utter incompetence and hubris of his main doctor, Doctor Willard Bliss (his first NAME was DOCTOR).
Destiny of the Republic: A Tale of Madness, Medicine and the Murder of a President gives an interesting account of the latter part of the nineteenth century, while highlighting the impoverished childhood of James A.
Garfield, who went on to obtain higher education, and described as a"wunderkind scholar" graduating from Williams College.
At a time of political unrest, James A.
Garfield emerged as the Presidential nominee at the 1880 Republican National Convention as a compromise candidate.
Although serving in office only four months before his assassination, Garfield left a mark on the Presidency.
I have never had the presidential fever; not even for a day."--James A.
This book was amazing. Seriously. It will also turn your stomach and cause you to hate certain segments of the population.Garfield's death was probably one of the greatest tragedies in American History. He truly seemed liked an incredible human being, and would have been such a wonderful president. I had no idea what a genius we lost when he was murdered.Highly - HIGHLY - recommend this book.
Quite a few times while reading this page-turning and well-researched book, I asked myself, “Where is James Garfield now that we really need him?”Our 20th president was both a gentleman and a scholar.
“Do you think my name will have a place in human history?” the barely 50-year-old president asked during his last days.
“Yes,” his friend replied, “a grand one, but a grander place in human hearts.” For every American – particularly those who are fans of Erik Larson’s works – this is indispensable reading and a rare education into a president who has fallen through the crevices in history.
Garfield, but it became a really riveting story for me as it detailed the doctors' efforts to save the life of Garfield.
Dr. Joseph Lister in England had demonstrated the life-saving value of antisepsis to prevent infection--but most American doctors did not accept it.
So it was not the lunatic Charles Guiteau who actually killed Garfield, but Dr. Willard Bliss and the other doctors who had unsterilized fingers and instruments inserted into the wound, searching for the bullet--and causing the infection of the wound which killed the president.
The story of the brief Presidency of James Garfield is little known though Millard's work is changing that situation.
Millard fills the book with details of the political world of the time, the latest medical developments, accepted by American doctors or not, the works of Alexander Graham Bell, attempting to assist the treatment of the President.One fault noted in my e-book borrowed from the library.
This makes any use of the footnotes in this edition unwieldy and impractical.That fault would almost cost it a star but I can't say if that is the author's fault or a random editor for this edition.
Like many of the other reviews I have read on this book I must admit that I knew little to nothing concerning Garfield other than he had been one of the 4 presidents who had been assassinated and that he had lingered for months before passing.
The cry was like a spark in dry kindling...the people realized that it was Garfield, not Sherman, Blain, or Grant who was the best man, and when the dust settled, even against Garfields protest, he was given the nomination and eventually elected President of the United States.There are so many other layers of history inside that make Candice Millards novel a biography that I would recommend to all.
And how ironic that a British Dr. Lister proclaimed knowledge that had it been followed would have saved Garfield's life?Our reading club decided to read this book for several reasons, perhaps the most important being that Charles Guiteau hailed from Freeport where most of us live.
They were so different: Guiteau the religious fanatic and loser, and Garfield the rather brilliant orator (albeit verbose), successful Civil War general, and abolitionist who really didn't want to be president.
Garfield would have survived easily had he been some bum on the street who received no medical care.
An excellent book. More in-depth review to follow.
Apparently, the powerful nominating speech he delivered on behalf of fellow Ohioan, John Sherman, affected his constituents so deeply that someone wrote him in on the ballot.The great inventor Alexander Bell faced over 600 law suits after he introduced his invention the telephone: suits filed by those claiming he had stolen his idea for the phone from them.Joseph Lister's antiseptic technique was initially scoffed at by American Physicians who, doubting the existence of germs, refused to adopt his life saving methods.Garfield's assassin visited the White House regularly, seeking a position within the President's administration.
"He insisted, moreover, that the care he had given the president had been not only adequate, but exemplary." Ignorance truly is Bliss.In addition to the fascinating life of Garfield and the 3 pompous jerks above, I enjoyed learning more about Dr. Joseph Lister and Alexander Graham Bell (would love to also read a book about Bell if you have a great recommendation).
In essence, his time as President of the United States was and is (sadly) determined by and how the way he died.Garfield ran for and assumed office in an era and a country that was riven by deep divisions amongst the body politic.
Still at this point in history, the President ran the country from the second floor of the White House.
This unfortunately was the method by which Charles Guiteau actually first encountered President Garfield.
