https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2590136-barracoon
“…I want to ask you many things.
I want to know who you are and how you came to be a slave; and to what part of Africa do you belong, and how you fared as a slave, and how you have managed as a free man?”…when he lifted his wet face again he murmured, Thankee Jesus!
Somebody come ast about Cudjo!
I want tellee somebody who I is, so maybe dey go to tell everybody whut Cudjo says, and how I come to Americky soil since de 1859 and never see my people no mo’.
“ Barracoon - An enclosure in which bla
“ Barracoon - An enclosure in which black slaves were confined for a limited period.-Oxford English DictionaryBefore she was a world-renowned novelist, Alabama-born and Florida-raised Zora Neale Hurston was an anthropologist, an ethnographer, a researcher into the history and folklore of black people in the American South, the Caribbean, and Honduras.
Cudjo at home – from History.com - (Credit: Erik Overbey Collection, The Doy Leale McCall Rare Book and Manuscript Library, University of South Alabama)It was during this period that she first met the last known black man transported from Africa to America as a slave, Cudjoe Lewis.
This book was suppressed for over 70 years because the myth of poor, exploited Africans capturing and selling their countrymen to the evil white slavers suited America with their collective guilt and wish not to offend African-Americans further.
Oh wait, that's almost a model for our own societies today.It isn't brilliantly written, it is very short, but it is paradigm-shifting and I would like to give everyone a copy of this book, every school child, every adult in all the countries that captured or enslaved Africans and all the African-Americans who suffered from in this business where the Black man is as much to blame as the White.
“All these words from the seller, but not one word from the sold.”Here, Zora Neale Hurston expresses why she wrote this book.I have had difficulty rating this book.
It should have been published decades and decades ago!BUT, but, but… I do have some complaints with the final product.Only half of this book is in fact Cudjo Lewis' story, his story, told by him.
Zora Neale Hurston was absolutely right in demanding that his voice should be heard and that he was to be allowed to speak in his own dialect.
Thereafter follows a preface and introduction by Zora Neale Hurston.
This is a case in which I feel I would be trespassing on the author’s words, and by this I mean Kossulo’s, by superimposing any thoughts of my own.
We can only let their words echo inside of us and understand how they are a part of us, as we are a part of that part of history we created.
He says many times in the book that there is no way to understand his life if he doesn’t tell the lives of his forefathers.
For ourselves, for our own ancestors, for the world we live in today, and for the world that is to come.And thank you Zora, thank you...
I chose to listen to this in audio book form, and think it was a great way to hear Cudjos story.
The narrator does a fantastic job with the dislect and I felt like I was there hearing Cudjo speak his own story.
The last cargo of slaves brought here, at an age, eighteen I believe, that would allow him to remember his life in Africa, and when he was taken.
Was interesting hearing about his life in Africa, strange of course to my American ears, but that is what it was.What I didn't like was the beginning, an argument that encompasses the controversy surrounding this story.
The last shipment of slaves arrived in Alabama on the ship 'Clotilda' in 1860, on the eve of the Civil War.One of the African men on the Clotilda was Oluale Kossula, also known as Cudjo Lewis, who survived five years of slavery, became a free man, and helped found the black enclave of 'Africatown' (or 'Plateau') near Mobile, Alabama.In 1927, when Cudjo was in his mid-eighties, he was interviewed by Zora Neale Hurston - the American folklorist, anthropologist, and author.
Cudjo's village was located in what is now BeninThe white slavers housed the Africans in a barracoon near the ocean, until 65 men and 65 women were loaded onto the Clotilda and brought to Mobile, Alabama.
“We cry ’cause we slave. In night time we cry, we say we born and raised to be free people and now we slave. We doan know why we be bring ’way from our country to work lak dis. It strange to us." Well, what to say.... I'm ambivalent about this one. The part Zora Neale Hurston actually wrote is beautiful and raw and touching. In 1927, she interviewed Kossula (Cudjo Lewis), then 86 years old, who was one of the last black slaves brought to America. He, along with 100-some others, was smuggled int
In 1927, she interviewed Kossula (Cudjo Lewis), then 86 years old, who was one of the last black slaves brought to America.
Through a period of interviews, Kossula related his story to Ms. Hurston, beginning with the history of his grandfather and some of the customs of his people.
The reason I'm not giving this book 5 stars even though I love the way Zora Neale Hurston tells Kossula's story is that it is incredibly brief.
I'm very glad I read it, and I'll be thinking of Kossula for a long time.
I was deeply engrossed in this slave narrative based on Hurston's interviews with Cudjo Lewis, the presumed last living African held captive and taken to America to become a slave in 1860.
Hurston composed the work based on her interviews with Cudjo Lewis between 1927-30 and was never granted publication in her time because publishers felt the use of vernacular would be off-putting to readers; a sentiment she obviously did not agree with, as she refused to change the work in order to achieve publication.
I'm grateful to Harper Books for publishing Hurston's work posthumously, and for sending me an advance copy in exchange for this honest review.Full review can be found here: littlereaderontheprairie.wordpress.co...
Books about Slavery and WWII are my jam. I've read a lot about slavery. I think this maybe the reason I didn't love or enjoy Barracoon. It's definitely not what I thought it would be. The narration was great and I actually couldn't imagine reading it with the vernacular of Cudjo Lewis. Is this a great introductory read? I think so. It just wasn't for me. I found nothing new here.
Wow! Kossulo’s story is touching and heartbreaking. I felt as if I was sitting there with him and he was personally telling me his story. There isn't much that needs to be said, go read it.
He was brought to America illegally, at the tail end of slavery.
His owners kept him and his shipmate slaves "secret" between them, using their labours for about 6 years before slavery was abolished.
Free life in America was hard on African-born freed slaves.
This is a side of slavery that I personally had never thought of: the plight of the last slaves who always remembered another life.
Cudjo's story was horrendous from the treachery he experienced from other African tribes who benefitted from the slave trade to his attempts at living in America as a free man.
Check out my review here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4hQYQ...
Barracoon is an interview record of the memories of Cudjo Lewis who is believed to be the last living person captured in Africa and brought to America on a slave ship.
Lewis was captured in 1859 by Dahomey warriors, sold to American slavers, and illegally shipped to Mobile, Alabama (importing slaves to the USA had been outlawed in 1809).
That's where Lewis spent the rest of his life.A substantial portion of the book consists of his account of his life and family experiences living in Alabama since the Civil War. He and his wife had six children, and he tells of the deaths during those many years of his wife and three of his children.
Fascinating and heartbreaking, Kossula relates his traumatic experience in his youth of his village being slaughtered and he and other youths being sent into slavery in the US.
Zora Neale Hurston spends many days listening to Kossula's stories, and other days letting the man simply get on with his chores as she gained his trust.The "interview" section of the book is prefaced by some background on Hurston's reasons for engaging Kossula, as well as Hurston's ambivalence to the academic approach.
And there are stories, related by Kossula, that end off the book.
I found the stories interesting, and imagined he had related these to his children and grandchildren.
It is the life story of Kossola, the last living slave abducted from Africa after other Africans plundered his village, brutally beheading people, to catch human beings to sell to the thriving but illegal slave trade.
“Barracoon” is the word for the barracks the captives were locked in pending their trip as “black cargo” to the United States.This is the story of American slaves and their descendants, but it is also a study of how we humans destroy ourselves—all of us: Africans kill and enslave Africans; White people work and brutalize Africans; American-born Black people disparage African-born “savages” once they are free men; White men kill unarmed free Black men with impunity; it goes on and on and on.
Hurston records much of Lewis’ story in his own words and dialect as he talks of his capture in 1860 by another African tribe; his sale to and detention by American slavers in a barracoon, an enclosure used to detain slaves; his transport to the United States with more than a hundred other people on the Clotilde, the last American ship to conduct this ‘illegitimate trade’; the horrors of his five and a half years as a slave ‘from 1860 until Union soldiers told him he was free’; and his life after, the desire for land, the building of Africatown, the lives and deaths of his wife and children, and his constant sense of loss and yearning for his home in Africa.
To be able to take the book as it is without considering the great historical reference and the gravitas of the writer Zora Neale Hurston.
It's clear that Kossula missed his home, but in this tale, he wasn't taken from his home by white men.
The book simply didn't cover much about his enslavement and what little it did cover was not horrific in his description.
There was a strange detachment from his life in America.
There was a lot of controversy over the dialect and whether or not Hurston plagiarized from other articles of the time.
This book and story was absolutely incredible and left me with so many thoughts and feelings.
Africa's ambassadors to the New World have come and worked and died, and left their spoors, but no recorded thought." To think that OUR stories have been told by the oppressor but not from the mouths of our very own (until now) is simply mind blowing.
This being one of the first slavery books I've had the chance to read, it left me wanting to know more.
This was my first Zora Neale Hurston piece and I look forward to reading more of her works in the near future (starting with 'Their Eyes Were Watching God).
There are some who’ll choose to lock-in on the accuracy of the text: how much of the story was embellished, or helped along, by Hurston?
It’s irrelevant and petty to even address the how of this work, as it only stands to negate (and belittle) the importance of Cudjo’s story.
His strength, andperseverance, despite all the wrong he endured, should be THE STORY.
Anyone that chooses to quibble over that particularly aspect is selling Cudjo short.
Further making a mockery of an experience that, for millions, stood as a shining example of how the “American Dream” was more important than “common humanity” or right and wrong.
So, Zora Neale Hurston writing and working as a folklorist and cultural anthropologist took interest in the story of Kossula, the last surviving individual from the last slaving ship that touched down in Alabama in 1860, the Clotilda.
Hurston would not submit to such revision.”Although slave narratives are in publication, Kossula’s story takes us from his African home through three weeks in the barracoon (essentially a holding hut for the captives before they were loaded onto ships) to 45 days at sea and then dry land in Alabama.
The majority of slave narratives in print detail their bondage here in America but rarely, if ever?
While Hurston’s Their Eyes Were Watching God is a deeply loved masterpiece, many people do not know about her work collecting oral folklore and oral history. It is okay that we have the rediscovery/recovery of this manuscript to add to her important work in such areas. Hurston visited Cudjo Lewis several times. Lewis was kidnapped from his home in West Africa and taken to the USA; this occurred after the Atlantic slave was outlawed, so he was pirated human cargo, in modern parlance he was a vict
Lewis was kidnapped from his home in West Africa and taken to the USA; this occurred after the Atlantic slave was outlawed, so he was pirated human cargo, in modern parlance he was a victim of human trafficking.
He was sold into slave, given the name Cudjo Lewis (among others), later freed as a result of the Civil War, married, had children, lost children, and eventually told his story to Hurston.
So, if you are not an academic or have little interest in folklore or discussions about the manuscript (including plagiarism issues), you might want to skip part of the introduction and all the appendix.
Bought by William Foster, captain of the Clotilda slave ship, Kossola made a lengthy trip to Alabama.
In the late 1920's, Zora Neale Hurston (not yet a renowned author) traveled to Alabama to meet Kossola and write his story.
This is the story of the last survivor of the Clotilda.While this work in short in length, its epic in scope.
Kossola is the last survivor of the Transatlantic Slave Trade.
'Barracoon' is not the first piece Hurston wrote about Kossola.
Though the Transatlantic slave trade was illegal, the Clotilda made the trip to Africa, a trip founded by Timothy Meather.
I loved this for Cudjo, I loved this for Zora Neale Hurston, and I loved it for its historical significance.
Cudjo's harrowing story of being sold by his own countrymen into the slavery of white men on another continent, is amazing in its lack of bitterness.
His and Hurston's love shines through in this unique and tragic account.
I loved the introduction and the afterword also, despite the accusations of perjury.
According to the afterward, it was more likely done to protest her boss and lack of pay than to garner professional esteem.
The afterward also supposes that she probably didn't think that what she plagiarized would be published.
Cudjo - his American name - also known throughout the book by his African name - Kossola, relates how he was abducted, his trip on the seas, his enslavement and in his later years, his freedom.
This is told in his verbiage, and may be difficult to read, until you get acquainted with his rhythm and words.Although the book is small in size, Cudjo's actual story is even smaller.
There is a lot of accompanying material in this book.
There are additional stories Cudjo told that were not used in the story proper, a small family tree, an afterward and acknowledgements, a glossary, book notes and a bibliography, a forward, a preface, two introductions and an editors notes.
1.5*'sParts of this only a sociologist could enjoy and the other parts were obtuse. It really didn't give the feeling of what it was like being stolen/sold from Africa and the experience of freedom lost.
Definitely a vital historical artifact.
4 ☆ Cudjo Lewis (Oluale Kossola) is the last known living African held captive on the last black cargo ship sold as a slave in Alabama, 1860.
This RARE narrative shows Kossola’s desperate longing to return to his native land and his family.
It talks about his time as a slave and the Civil War era finally bringing his freedom, and earlier stories of his youth + tribe, his capture and what happened to his people when attacked by the warring tribe.
All as told in his native tongue.
I cannot fathom how hard this had to of been for him to tell his story to Hurston, the author researching his history.
This is short, intense and well written. Invaluable
I went into this book thinking I would learn more about Cudjo's firsthand experience of slavery in the US, but the chapter about slavery is actually quite short. The most emotionally affective parts of the book for me were Cudjo's recollections of his wife and children, and the clear loneliness and anguish he felt in the present moment while talking to ZNH. It felt so human and raw. His voice comes alive off the page and his stories will stay with me for a long time.
I cannot believe this took 87 years to be published!A must read - I recommend the audiobook as Robin Miles does a brilliant job with Kossola’s vernacular and emotional retelling.
