https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1464811.Underwater_Adventure
Although very much of its time and full of outmoded ideas of animal research and archaeology, this is still a great read. I loved these adventure books as a kid and still found them enjoyable as an adult.
I know this book does not deserve a five star, but this is my memory of growing up: after school reading, sun shining through my window and all my favorite snacks that I dare not eat anymore. And for that I'm going to rate all Hal and Roger books five stars!
I'm going to rate all of the Willard Price books as four stars. Not because I think they're all that special (hell, they're basically the works of an eco-terrorism apologist), but because, when I was twelve, they were THE BEST BOOKS I'D EVER READ. I lapped them up. Loved 'em.
I loved for these books when I was about 11 and learned A LOT about animals and geography from them
Kirja kertoo Hal ja Roger Huntista, jotka ovat työskentelemässä Merentutkimuslaitokselle. He keräävät eläinnäytteitä ja löytävät myös uponneen aarrelaivan. Valitettavasti entinen koulututtu Skink pyrkii koko ajan aiheuttamaan ongelmia, eikä kaihda mitään keinoja.Pidin kirjasta kovasti, ja se on kestänyt aikaa (julkaistu alunperin 1955). Kirjan ikä näkyy lähinnä siinä, kuinka Price pitää monia mereneläviä lähinnä vaarallisina hirviöinä. Toisaalta hän kuvaa vedenalaista maailmaa häikäisevän kauniisti ja ainakin itse halusin monta kertaa tätä lukiessani matkata Etelämerelle. Oli myös aika huvittavaa, kuinka veljekset parin tunnin koulutuksen jälkeen olivat valmiita tutkimussukeltajia; nykyään sitä varten on käytävä useita kursseja, jotka kestävät yhteensä ainakin vuoden.
As far as I know I read all of these, as a child, younger than 10. I've just recorded a representative few here, on goodreads. Loved them at the time, but that's nearly 1/2 a century ago, 1/20th of a millennium ago.
Action, adventure, survival, environment, conservation...I loved these books when I was a kid. At the time, they seemed to border on sci-fi regarding the at-the-time-amazing technology the boys used.Of course, looking back you can see how these stories are flawed, but I still think they are enjoyable. In fact, it would make for a really interesting middle school science project for children to read one of these books and then compare them with the knowledge of the world and technology we have today.
Superb adventure story with an excellent villain whose evil acts are devoid of incongruence or incompetence. The dark twist to the narrative, the hunt for the treasure ship and the thrilling denouement mark this book out as one of the two outstanding Price Adventure stories.
This book is a thriller.
possibly read in winter 1967
It was a gripping story. My boys and I learned so many facts about all the under water creatures! And cried when tragedy struck. We love this book and will most definitely read it again.
Really good already and I am only in the first chapter. Really exciting so far this is a must read in the Adventure series.
