https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/316445.Luna
Firstly, Luna's story is so interesting that I really wish that the book had been told from her point of view--or even in third person omniscient.
Luna's story is the reason I picked up the book, and it became a little frustrating to read everything filtered through her sister Regan's thoughts and emotions.
Regan also behaves pretty selfishly and stupidly a number of times throughout the story, and while some of it might be understandable, I really didn't feel deep enough love and support from her for Liam/Luna to make up for it, other than some kneejerk defensive reactions.
Some thoughts and some questions.It was interesting how the mother and father had non-traditional roles (him not working,her working).
Im not sure if this was necessary though or really served the plot in any way.
Yes, Liam can't help that he is trans, but his character is painted as someone who in general doesn't have control impluse, which I found annoying and naive.
Also, just because Liam is trans and is really a girl, doesn't mean he has to be sooooooo girly.
Liam's character and obession with shopping seems unrealistic and is just perpetuating a stereotype.The writing was not so hot.
The problem is just that this book lacked all nuance and subtlety and just read like trashy, predictable teen lit.I was left feeling as though this book posed itself as an insightful text into a sister -- and by extension, a family -- grappling with her brother's grappling with his sex, but the way Peters developed her characters only alienated me from their experiences.
Her thoughts, her feelings, all of her is what we really see, not Luna's and is therefore not about the trans person and is not a "trans story".The constant misgendering from the summary alone makes me boil.Reading through other people's reviews of this story, constantly misgendering Luna, makes me even more upset, and they obviously do not know how to respect a person's pronouns.I don't care if the book is doing it, I don't care if the other characters or the author is doing it, you do not misgender a trans person, fiction or not, you don't do it.This story doesn't even help on the side of how to be a good ally to trans people.
The book was narrated by her sister, Regan.Well, I think this book would be perfect for 6th graders who are just really learning about their sexuality, gender roles, and who they really are.
There was a lot of great vocabulary in this book, like sexism, trans/cis gender, gender roles, sexuality, and etc.
The novel gave a few perfect, blatant examples that could be easily be spotted in the real world.
There were a few good concepts that were included, like how men are restrained and pressured into a box of masculinity, gender roles, and bullying and accepting people for who they, are a few.
Although Luna is a well-written book on a topic that demands more wide-spread exploration, its narrative ultimately promotes the "wrongness" and/or "otherness" of trans characters by focusing on a cis hetero (and ultimately much less interesting) main character.Luna is one of those books I read a long time ago -- long enough that I can't, in good conscience, review the prose, because I don't remember it...
The fact that the narrator of this book is a cis hetero one who refuses to use her sibling's preferred pronouns throughout most of the narrative and views her sibling's trans-ness as alien and unrelateable is something that stuck with me long after I put the book down.
A pro was the fact that it was so simple that it was really easy to understand and I think that is good because younger readers can grasp everything very easily.
Another pro to the simplicity was that it was a quick book to read and the last pro is that because the story was so simple, it is easy to just focus on Regan and Liam/ Regan and Luna.
The biggest con for me, was the fact that the simplicity took away from deep emotional insights from Luna.
I liked the fact that it was from Regan's POV.
A book from Luna's POV would have been very different (could have been worse or better).
Other reviewers have given you the premise of the plot, I just wanted to add that I thought it was BRILLIANT that it was told from the sister's point of view.
Within the largely conservative area I live in, not a lot of people would be interested in this book had it been told from Liam/Luna's point of view.
It's the perfect vehicle for introducing a LOT of people to an issue they might not have understood, nor something they would have wanted to understand.
At any rate, it's a giant step forward in YA lit for transgender issues.
It was more because of the way it was handled.Peters is a believer of authentic voices, so she portrayed the narrator as the sister of Luna - a 16 year old boy, Liam, who is struggling with keeping her true identity a secret.
Obviously this does not work out, and she walks in the door right when the parents are interrogating Liam about trying on the wife’s clothing.My problem with this was that first of all, Regan was incredibly irresponsible.
It’s definitely pro-transgender, and maybe it would help some teens learn a little bit more about gender identity issues in general (even if I thought it was condescending & heavy-handed at times).
Although you get a feel for what the book is about by reading the back copy--in effect, that Regan's brother, Liam, is a woman trapped in a man's body--you don't get the full spectrum of what this actually means until you reach the end of chapter one.
And Regan, the only one who knows her brother for who he is--a sister named Luna--is losing sleep and a chance for her own life by hiding the secret.
But what will it mean for his family, especially Regan, who has spent so long loving her brother, protecting his secrets, being a part of his life?
DNF at 47%.When I first started this book, I thought I would like it.
I was disappointed that the book wasn't from Luna's point of view, but I thought maybe it would be a good book to get my family members, maybe reading about Regan's journey of discovery with regards to her sister would help them.Except then Regan turned out to be a brat.She keeps talking about how she has no life because of Luna, but honestly all I see is a spoiled brat who can't step away from her own innane high school drama long enough to realize that what Luna is going through is a lot bigger than having to miss a date to babysit.
Or losing your job because you went on the date.When she determined it was entirely Luna's fault that she lost her job, I knew this book and I were done.
They mostly are about silencing the trans voice by giving control of the narrative to the trans character's cis-gendered sister.I think it made the story more palatable because we hear about the pain and confusion and hopelessness all second hand.
While Regan's struggles are real, and I found myself identifying with her frequently, I also noted that this would not be a book that I would hand to a trans person.
I wanted Luna to not be pushed back to the supporting character just because we might find her struggle to be too painful to handle.
Just… nope.First of all, it’s told from the perspective of Liam/Lia Marie/Luna’s (I’ll get to her later) cisgender sister, Regan.
While I like that a cis author didn’t try tackling this book by writing as a transwoman, I also don’t think that Regan was the right way to get the message across.
So it leaves LLL (I’m too tired to write that out now) to explain it all.And it’s just infodumping about what some transpeople do with gender confirmation surgeries, called sex reassignment in this book.
It was beautifully written, with perfectly developed characters that were wrapped around a subject matter that got me to rethink how I feel about topics not commonly discussed.
However, to be able to embrace the characters and understand their plight, you have to put aside your beliefs of gender expectations and what is considered acceptable in society.The narrator of the story is a fifteen year old girl named Regan.
Regan is the confidante and friend that Luna needs to be able to accept who she is and embrace her decision to live the life she was meant to have.This book helped me understand the struggles transgender individuals encounter.
It is one of the few young adult books I have seen so far that addresses the reality/experience of transgender teens, which has been needed for years!
They are classics and address issues of gender for sure, but I appreciate the clear and stated trans themes in Luna so much.) Having worked within the trans and transyouth communities for a number of years, it made me so excited to see a book in which a trans character is depicted in a realistic and respectful way.
Told in the voice of his younger sister Regan, we are privy to not only the trials and tribulations Liam must face in order to become Luna, but also the confusion Regan feels as she tries to simultaneously protect her brother and accept all of his changes.The Review:As I was reading many of the other reviews for this book, a huge source of contention for other readers was Regan’s ‘selfishness.’ Apparently Regan was an unlikable narrator due to her self-centered nature, which impacted peoples’ enjoyment of the novel.
I read this book back in sixth grade.
But I still remember the impact it had on me.
This book opened my eyes up to a whole new world.
I was able to get a better understanding, and I would definitely recommend this to anyone who is open minded toward this subject.
Maybe, even to the people who are skeptical about people like Luna.
I don't exactly remember the style of writing it had.
But when reading a book that heart felt and touching, you wouldn't care if it were good or bad.
I cried and cried while I read this book. But don't read it unless you are ready to think hard about some tough issues and stereotypes.
The only one who knows about Luna, Liam's true self, is her sister, Regan.I don't know how realistic Luna is, because I really can't imagine how difficult might be to find yourself in that situation, but it felt realistic to me.
Regan has to keep her sister's secret and being the only one who knows is difficult, because she is Liam/Luna's outlet for her problems.
I really liked that, in spite of loving her sister, Regan also felt like she was drowning in Liam's problems.
As much as she loves her she can't help but feel embarassed when Luna shows herself in public or when she sees her brother behaving like a girl in front of her friends.
THIS BOOK WAS GREAT. SUPERB, WARMING, CRY WORTHY. NOT A WASTE OF PRECIOUS TEAR DROPPING IN THIS STORY. OKAY? OKAY! So this transgender transition book was so SO just, everything. I read it over the weekend and I want to marry it and take it to Vegas. I don't even want to marry people, thats how great this book is. there better be another book, If not I will kill someone.
I really, really wanted to like this book because there is not enough (massive understatement) positive representation of transgender characters in YA fiction.
But the narrator took over the book and made it about herself, not about her trans sibling Liam/Luna.
There has to have been a better way to get that objective information into the book without having the narrator go totally out of character.
Verdict: if you're going to write a book about a trans teen, actually write it about that character, not about her incredibly irritating sister.
This book is getting really good. Luna wants to tell he's parents that he is a girl. Thats what he wants to be. No a man but a woman.
Because by day, she's trapped in the body of Liam, a boy constantly under pressurre from the people in his small town to be more of a man, do sports and other gender-conforming crap.This book really focusses on Regan's story and how Luna's transition affects her, as well as the stuff she's going through at school.
Her family live in quite a small, gender-conforming town, so obviously that doesn't help them in the slightest.As a character, Luna was quite underdeveloped, which was a shame considering the point of the book is her decision to transition and how this affects her relationship with Regan.
Malam ini Liam membangunkannya untuk memberitahukan bahwa dirinya sudah menemukan nama baru.
Demikian pula dengan Luna, yang hanya bisa menjadi dirinya di malam hari.Sudah lama Liam merasakan bahwa dirinya adalah seorang perempuan, yang terlahir di dalam tubuh laki-laki.
Hanya Regan yang tahu tentang status transgender yang dialami Liam.
Di novel ini, pembaca diajak untuk memahami bagaimana seorang adik menerima kondisi kakaknya yang di mata orang lain dianggap tidak normal.
Luna pun mengalami penolakan, bullying dari lingkungannya, bahkan dia berpikir lebih baik berhenti hidup daripada menjadi orang yang bukan dirinya.Novel ini pernah diterjemahkan oleh Gramedia dengan judul sama dalam lini teenlit.
Regan tells the story of her brother’s transformation, suicidal feelings, eagerness to live authentically, bullying and parental gender expectations.
Her entire life revolved around supporting Liam, whether he woke her up in the middle of the night for fashion advice, protecting him from their father, concerns for his mental health, lying to friends and family.
Both parents threw passive aggressive barbs to each other.Readers who only understand transgender rights and life from a 2018 perspective may see LUNA as very dated.
They may enjoy a story that shows how far we’ve come in their life time while still knowing how far we still need to go.
Luna  was born Liam. When we meet him, he's a high school senior, but he's known he is a girl trapped in a boy's body since he was much younger. When Liam was nine years old, he asked his mom for a Barbie and a bra. Then, at his party, he couldn't understand why, after having given the list to his mom, he didn't get the presents.His younger sister, Regan, is the only other person who knows his secret. The secret doesn't just weigh heavily on Liam/Luna, it's also taking its toll on Regan. She lo
Then, at his party, he couldn't understand why, after having given the list to his mom, he didn't get the presents.His younger sister, Regan, is the only other person who knows his secret.
The secret doesn't just weigh heavily on Liam/Luna, it's also taking its toll on Regan.
Regan, on the other hand, supports Liam to the point where she is losing sleep and feels unable to fully take part in her own life for fear of the secret she keeps.❝My brother was a black hole in my universe.
This was a National Book Award finalist and I can see why.
In many ways, it's a typical young adult novel with a girl struggling with her family, her brother, and a new love interest.
The love-interest part was cute but fairly typical.
The fact that her brother, however, is transgender (he was born physically a boy but feels like a girl on the inside) is NOT typical of YA literature and adds incredible complexity.
I think the author realistically portrayed this struggle, not making it any simpler for readers just because the typical reader might be in high school.
If it wasn't for the whole transgender issue this would have been such a snore fest.
In fact, Regan's love affair with Chris reminded me of all the Babysitters' Club books I used to read when I was eleven; clichéd, clumsy and over-the-top "funny".
Peters' writing is nothing to get excited about and Luna/Liam comes across as a flaky character who can't help herself and must.
Transgender teens (and adults, for that matter) is such an important issue and thus I would actually recommend it as a YA novel.
Still I can't help but feel that Luna wouldn't have gotten any attention at all if it was on a less controversial topic.
Sinceramente sono enormemente delusa da questa lettura.Visto il tema trattato mi aspettavo molto di più.Solitamente i temi “scottanti” quando vengono riportati su carta, riescono a creare una certa sinergia tra il lettore e la storia raccontata, i suoi personaggi.Aspettavo di emozionarmi, di versare lacrime, di sentire almeno un nodo in gola...NIENTE, MI SONO ANNOIATA A MORTE.Forse perché il libro è troppo Y, forse non ero nella modalità adatta, ma sta di fatto che sono diverse volte che lo prendo in mano, leggo diverse pagine e poi lo ripongo sul comodino perché non mi cattura, ma stavolta era giunto il suo momento, me lo sentivo!
But I do see that the author was probably not really writing this book for the transgendered community, and more for those on the outside, who do not understand, or simply don't know anything about the trans community.
Yeah, we are still massively unfair and awful (for the most part) to our trans communities (WHY DO WE NEED TO TALK ABOUT GENITALIA ALL THE TIME, AMERICA?!!?), but I feel like transgendered people, their communities, and their lives, are starting to be recognized and accepted.
