https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/720298.Codependent_No_More
Found this really helpful. I bet it could help you, too. In fact, I will loan you my copy. Even if you don't want it. Or I could buy it for you, even though I can't afford it. Don't walk away! I'll give you $20 if you read it. I know it will help you. You need help. Don't worry about me. I'm fine. Now.
My father then asked me if I wanted to know what that was called…he told me it was called co-dependence and that I should start learning about this by reading a book called Co-dependent No More.
I also learned that I need to detach myself from the people in my life that cause me harm…emotionally, physically, doesn’t matter…Though I may not struggle with an abusive alcoholic, I still struggle with the internal doubts and feelings of self worthlessness.
I have learned that I do not need to immerse myself so deeply in someone else’s life that I lose myself.
Beattie's book instead seems dated to me, bound up as it is with the classic origins of the term "co-dependence" in the partners of alcoholics.For me, the constant references to alcohol and Al-Anon grated on me, as did mentions of her religious persuasion.
I'm also keen to read Leslie Irvine's Codependent Forevermore, which is an even-handed critique of CoDA and the recovery moment in general.For any men reading this review (I can't imagine there will be too many), I will give my strongest recommendation to Dr Robert Glover's No More Mr Nice Guy, which is essentially a co-dependence book aimed at men.
This book opened my eyes to the path toward self-discovery, self-love, and learning how to deal with difficult relationships.
I very highly recommend this book, not just for people who live with an alcoholic, but for anyone who is trying desperately hard to fix a bad relationship, whether it's with your spouse, your parents, your children...with anyone you love.
I learned how my upbringing has the power to wreck my current and future relationships if I let it.
The tenets of this book are so simple...you wonder why you didn't think of them yourself!
I thought I knew everything there was to know about co-dependency, but this book took it above and beyond my prior misconceptions.
For anyone who has experienced emotional martyrdom and excessive guilt surrounding self-care issues, this is a necessary read!
Although I wasn't directly affected by addictive issues in the family, growing up a triplet created some of the exact same self-sacrificing behavioral patterns that are talked about in this book.
It's pretty amazing for anyone who has struggled to figure out why they often put others first but feel guilty taking care of themselves.
I gave it three stars because I read the entire book, and I'm still codependent.
I was sort of hoping this would like, cure me.
Fix all my issues, sort of like the knight and shining self-help book I've always been waiting for.
But it didn't immediately read my mind and meet my needs, and I was crushed.
Then one day, I had enough, and I gave up.
I set some boundaries, started to detach with love and take care of myself.
I learned how to stop controlling self-help books and start caring for myself.
The best line is these two books is that codependents do "all the wrong things for all the right reasons."One of the most interesting, and least explored, concepts covered in the chronology or pattern of behavior.
But instead of doing it the healthy way--controlling themself by setting boundaries and knowing how to enforce them--they try to control the other person by "helping" them in various ways.Lastly, when the problem gets worse and worse, the codependent becomes angry, bitter and dejected as a result of their failed attempts to gain some level of control over a situation that was already impossibly difficult to deal with.
A very helpful and important book about co-dependency.
The author speaks kindly and is supportive and there are lots of practical suggestions too.
My criticisms would be that it seems very dated in places, and she does like to use the word "God" when I would've preferred her to use Higher Power, however, that should not diminish the significance or importance of this book.
There is no mention of CoDA either, so I am guessing as an organisation, it did not exist when the book was written.
It's a good start, for those who feel definitions and explanations of the term and actions around co-dependency are needed and is very helpful.
I might not be in the mess I'm in now.This is a good book for those in crisis mode.
When you're beaten down and feeling trapped and you don't know what the hell is wrong with you, you need this book, which tells you over and over and over and over again: You're okay, you're a good person.
Therefore, about half of the book I didn't need.
If you already know what co-dependency is, this isn't the book for you.
They don't know yet that they need help, but they do.
An eye-opening book that reveals many behaviors one adopts to handle living with someone with addiction problems, or as in my case, mental-health issues.
I never realized the extent to which my relationship warped me, to some level my fault for allowing it to happen, but the book also presented a lot of ways to come to an understanding of what it means to be a codependent and also ways to combat and correct behavior.
But I learned from this book and took a step in the right direction in trying to regain control of my life.
I decided to read this book because so many of my clients are reading or have read it.
I figured it would be a good idea to know what they're reading, especially since these clients regard it so highly but seem to be making little progress.
Now I know why.
What a load of crap.
If the author of this book is to be believed, everyone is codependent.
Furthermore, she perpetuates victimhood: it's not my fault I'm codependent.
It's a natural, understandable reaction to my childhood, adulthood, blah blah blah.
There are so many better self-help books out there.
I think the title of this book should have reflected the fact it was primarily geared towards alcoholics and/or children of alcoholics.
The fact that she mentions other groups doesn't matter much if 90% of the book is spent referring to codependents as people who have encountered some form of addiction.
After the lists, I actually put this one down but I did skim ahead a bit to see if anything else was of interest to me (nope).
After reading other reviews on here talking about how she puts therapy down I know this book is definitely not for me.
It lies in ourselves, in the ways we have let other people's behavior affect us and in the ways we try to affect them: the obsessing, the controlling, the obsessive 'helping', caretaking, low self-worth bordering on self-hatred, self-repression, abundance of anger and guilt, peculiar dependency on peculiar people, attraction to and tolerance for the biazrre, other-centeredness that results in abondonment of self, communication problems, intimacy problems, and an ongoing whirlwind trip through athe five-stage grief process.
We try to fix people's feelings.
We try to control other people's feelings.
As an adult child of alcoholic parents I am giving you forced "advice" to read this book.
Just a little codependent joke.
I just started to read this...it's heavy and hard to stomach at times, but definitely going to help me.
I try to spend a little time with it every couple of days with a journal.
So far it's been an amazing read.
While it seems like I have a lot of work to do--it's all for the best.
I have young children, and don't want to pass this stuff on...so I'm diving in and hopefully a better version of "me" will come of it!
Having been raised by a codependent parent who catered to my other narcissistic parent, this book has been validating to read.
I now have a better understanding of codependent behavior, and this book has not only verified what I believed, it has also allowed me to check myself for codependent behaviors.
While the parts about the Twelve Step Program offer a good preview for those considering meetings for codependents, it started feeling like a sales pitch.
I also felt that the book became repetitive towards the end, like one big motivational speech.
Despite my gripes here, I do recommend the read for folks whose life circumstances fooled them into believing that they're not good enough.
VERY helpful book for many women, including my former self.
I have read and recommended, and bought this book countless times for others.
This book is about taking care of YOURSELF, your neglected areas of living and using boundaries, both on yourself (being caretakers we frequently overreach ourselves) and on others.
It clears up messy areas of emotions and I think should be required reading for everyone.
Book discusses how to stop thinking of yourself as a victim- a victim of an abuser, of an alcoholic, of life.
Clearly, we are each created to our own purpose, and this book helps you discover yourself.
This book was recommended to me a few years ago as a classic in the genre for dealing with codependent behaviours.
The very heavy, God-led, twelve-step program lauded by the author is also problematic because it is a very narrow view of spirituality and pushes that one world-view/belief system on the readers.
Many times while reading, I found myself getting frustrated with this back and forth; there really wasn't any real help given to "stop doing the thing", save for just not doing it, or participating in a twelve-step program.
The book, which is geared towards family members of alcoholics, clarifies a lot of these unhealthy behaviors and gives tips on how to be self-aware and how to manage our emotions, which I find to be helpful, even if it's not groundbreaking scientific work or whatever.Not helpful: the content was pretty repetitive after awhile, and there was too much talk about God for my taste, especially towards the end.
She snuck it into the beginning in a way that many self-help books do ("It helps to find a spiritual power of some sort, whatever your beliefs"), but by the end, she was quoting Bible verses and throwing around tons of "Put your trust in God" verbiage that just made me feel like barf, no thanks.
I am not a person who likes tough love, and it was a very hard to keep reading this book when it felt like I was being torn apart.
But I was assured by the person who handed me this book, by looking at their happiness and personality, that the end must be better.
Reflecting/looking back after having read this book, and I do feel very good, and positive after all.
Now having finished the book, I get to read those, and see how I evolved as a person, and see that I am in the right path in making myself that person I see myself, and want to be.
It is a book that is an oldie but a good one for what I believe would be a lot of people!
It is informative in the fact that a lot of women especially are trying to help others and always put others feelings before their own when that is the wrong thing to do.
If they want to drink and ruin their lives dont let them bring you down.
If they want to walk away from their family let them.
You cannot help someone be a better husband, father, or friend when they do not want to.
Smile and be happy with yourself and your good friends and family!
This book addressed me specifically.
Many friends have told me that I shouldn't be so hard on myself or that I should take better care of myself, but I disregarded this advice.
I would mention that although Beattie mentions God, it is a secular conceptualization of the Alcoholic's Anonymous' concept of a "Higher Power." Also, many conservative Christians may be concerned with the emphasis on self-care, which might be construed to be selfishness.
However, caring for yourself is one of the less selfish things a co-dependent can do.
Overall, this book provided lots of valuable information and encouragement.
This book was difficult for me to read as it was very confronting & made me realise just how hard it is to put myself first & how it's even harder still to be directly honest about what standards & boundaries I feel that I need especially when traumas are involved.
I don't completely fit the codependent category so most of it didn't make much sense to me but it was an insightful read just the same & Although some parts made me angry for a few reasons that I don't completely understand just yet, I would still recommend this book for anyone looking to heal old wounds or even if you'd just like to understand some of the behaviours & psychology of others around you.
I read this book for a woman's group in order to participate fully in the discussion.
It slants heavily toward alcoholism, Alcoholics Anonymous, and Christianity, which served as a distraction for me since none of these are a part of my life.
That being said, I definitely benefitted from reading this book.
While I'm relieved to know I am not a full-blown codependent who becomes intertwined with dysfunctional people, I definitely saw myself in many of the "positive" codependent characteristics...giving too much, sacrificing myself for others, etc...in the name of love.
I realize now that when this goes so far, it's not "positive"...and, it was time for some boundaries.
Have you ever felt like someone else's words or behaviors shaped your whole day?
Have you ever done something for someone else, when he was capable of doing it for himself?
Are you currently in a relationship with someone who is dependent on a substance and/or is abusive verbally or physically?
If so, you may be in a codependent relationship and this book may be helpful to you.
It was written by a lay person and is almost devoid of jargon.
This is a very practical guide to understanding and changing your codependent relationships, aka taking back your life and embracing who you are.
Years ago, I did research online about codependency and was surprised to find it is not a fixed high-level diagnosis, but rather a sliding scale where just about everyone exhibits at least a mild form of it at some point. So just about everyone can benefit from this book if they read it with a toning-down grain of salt. Accountability for your own life is something we can all do a little better, whether we are blaming ALL our problems on an alcoholic, or only one or two problems on an annoying friend/relative/spouse.
A good read for anyone who has ever had a less-than-healthy relationship with a parent, child, friend, boyfriend, girlfriend, lover, spouse, etc. (basically most people) The core of codependency is about having a dysfunctional relationship with the self, and how we turn that outwards onto others. This book is a good first step to discovering the the dynamics, and making changes to healing.
Besides the poor writing style, this book is meaningless. If you are human you are codependent. Period!Page after page, the same thing. Repetitive, preachy, persecutory but not redeeming. It reads as if written by an angry teenager. If you need an unhealthy dose of self-hate go for this book otherwise do yourself a favor and get a copy of one of Brene Brown's books.
Life changing.
I never knew I needed this book. I really did.
Recommended as a "classic" on codependency.
Unfortunately, it was too much of a "self-help" book for my tastes.
While I am not averse to them in theory, I usually find them steeped in pop-psychology and inspirational pseudo-philosophy--which this book is.
Beattie's recommendations also rely heavily on the twelve-steps program (which has proven to be the most effective treatment for alcoholism, none of our medical or advanced therapies have yet to surpass twelve-step's efficacy-according to some study quoted on some radio story, how's that for a reference?).
I can certainly see this book being helpful to those struggling with codependency-so long as the appeals to a "higher power" strike an agreeable chord.
