https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7662771-the-violin-of-auschwitz
Her novella The Violin of Auschwitz details the true story of how a violin maker named Daniel used his skill as a luthier to escape the clutches of the death camps.
Daniel came from a religious family in Cracow that before the war had been violin makers.
Anglada's use of prose to describe music contrasts with the bleak outlook of life in Auschwitz.
Told in flashback by a contemporary violinist who is a friend of Daniel's niece, Daniel's story is meant to provide hope amid the brutalities of the Holocaust.
This is the first novella of Anglada's that I have read.
He’s at Gehenna, in the Three Rivers Camp, one of the relatively small Auschwitz sub-camps but he was fortunate in that he had been placed to work for Commander Saucel, “a refined but sadistic giant of a man”.This man was inherently evil and it was interesting to read about what finally happened to him and in tandem with the other villain, Dr Rascher, the camp’s doctor, whose main thrill and reason for being was experimenting on the human body.The days are long and hard though, with very little food (basically turnips) and Daniel finds himself becoming weaker and weaker.
If Daniel can craft the instrument within a particular amount of time, the Kommandant wins a case of Burgundy wine; if not, the doctor will then be permitted to use Daniel in his cruel, torturous experiments.This, and every other Holocaust story, never fails to astonish me with the bravery exhibited and the resilience of the human spirit.
Even though this was barely more than a short story, I was captivated by Daniel's story and I realized when I approached the end of the book, that I had been holding my breath in anticipation of discovering Daniel's fate.There is a passage which I think sums up perfectly the resilience and inner goodness and hope which was demonstrated by Daniel and all the prisoners of Auschwitz.....
If it is acknowledgably wonderful, the Commandant wins a case of Burgundy Wine, if it is not, Daniel will be condemned to be used in the Doctor's experiments.The power of this little work is the way the disgusting nature of this cruelty sits so bizarrely alongside the beautiful descriptive passages of his lovingly creating, in the midst of the horror, a wooden miracle which can sing out and above the evil.
I do not know where Anglada learned her knowledge or love of wood and its properties but it is very emotive.She writes astoundingly powerful sentences which echo and resound and as always the beauty of the work of the translator, here a woman called Martha Tennent, has to be acknowledged too.
Sve priče takvih događaja su tužne, teške.. Samo su neke ispričane bolje, a neke lošije. Kada izostane emocija, već imaš dojam da netko "samo" priča priču, znaš da ćeš ju vrlo brzo zaboraviti.
Barren, sterile, lifeless prose. The premise is inspiring: many years later, an old violin becomes a point of departure for the reconstruction of the travails of its Jewish maker, once a prisoner at Auschwitz, who had attempted to rescue his life and dignity through his craft. This story would have turned out well in the hands of a better writer, but this time round, the promise is lost. Abandoned 43%
Ne mogu reći da je ovo loša knjiga, ali mislim da joj nedostaje još malo razrade. Na svojih 172 stranice govori o jednoj zaista teškoj temi, jednom od odvratnijih razdoblja povijesti i spaja to sa čarolijom glazbe i ljudskim duhom koji je sposoban svašta preživjeti, no nekako nije me previše dotakla. Lijepo je pisana zaista je, samo mi je sve to nekako djelovalo hladno. Solidna, ali ne pretjerano pamtljiva knjiga.
Luthier: A maker of stringed instruments; a violin-maker.
This was a new word for me and I'll be looking to use it in word games.There are plenty of holocaust stories.
As difficult as they are to read, as horrible as the real life they reflect, somehow most of the stories that come to us are stories of perseverance, a will to live, in the face of such hell.
This little novella is one of them.
Though I might have wanted more, it does what it set out to do.
Only because of its brevity am I giving it 4 stars.
Maria Àngels Anglada brings the history of the violin made by Daniel, the Jewish luthier, during his internment in the Auschwitz concentration camp, to vibrant life.The story opens with the playing of the violin by Regina in the present time.
Every day is filled with gambles of life for every prisoner.Amidst all of the stress and anxiety, Daniel is awarded the opportunity to create a perfect musical instrument for the Camp Commandant.
His chance comes when he observes a fellow prisoner, a violinst called Bronislaw, being berated by the Commandant for playing bad notes.
Negdje sam vidjela da Violini iz Auschwitza zamjeraju nedostatak emocija. Nikako se ne bi složila s tim, emocije su vrlo snažne, ali zadržane, prikrivene, sputane strahom za vlastiti život, užasom gladi, batina, mrcvarenja. Emocija pravog majstora, istinski zaljubljenog u svoj rad, je toliko snažna da mu je omogućila da izdrži pakao logora na tri rijeke. Glazbeno obrazovani čitatelj mogao bi pronaći još i više ljepote u ovom djelu. Knjiga vrijeda čitanja, svakako.
A minha opinião em vídeo: https://youtu.be/y7Xqi06f_VYEste livro desiludiu-me bastante. Esperava muito mais...Gostei dos documentos reais de Auschwitz no inicio de cada capítulo.
Terminado. Libro corto que la verdad, no me ha aportado nada. Los personajes no me han llegado y se me ha hecho un poco aburrido. No sé si será por haber leído muchos libros de esta temática pero no lo recomiendo. Por momentos olvidaba que el protagonista se encontraba en Auschwitz. Eso sí, he aprendido las partes de un violín y los pasos para crearlo.
On the back of this slender volume, Tatiana de Rosnay is quoted as having said, "Read this little book and it will haunt you for ever." Having read it, I doubt that it will.Everything that is described in this brief, concisely written novel might have possibly happened in the peculiar atmosphere that reigned in Auschwitz.
Yet for me, the narrative voice did not ring true.Daniel was a maker of stringed musical instruments before he entered the Nazi concentration camp system in Auschwitz.
I think, for example, of the dark power of Elie Wiesel’s Night, or the tremendous wisdom to be found in Viktor Frankl’s Man’s Search for Meaning, and this one simply doesn’t compare.
The violin itself was symbolic of things that bring beauty and light into life.
Death may remove us temporarily from this world, but never from the memories of those we have loved, and who loved us, and never permanently from the eternal world.Like others I have read of this genre, this book led me to pause from time to time, to think and ponder, and to appreciate the ease and joys and blessings of my life.
Both the story and the writing were simple and I don't intend that as a criticism, because in my opinion this simplicity is the book's greatest strength.The Auschwitz Violin has two frames to its central tale, so it's a story within a story within a story.
Daniel and Bronislaw know that their lives depend on this one instrument and this one performance, though even should they survive this test, who knows what the next one will be.The book is a very short one (109 pages), which contributed to the feeling of simplicity, yet also to the lack of depth.
uvijek ovekujem da knjiga ovakve tematike izazove duboke emocije ali ovdje se nije dogodilo nista.to je zapravo tuzno I strasno me razocaralo, mozda je tako zbog nacina pripovijedanja, mozda je nesto drugo po srijedi, ne znam...
Um dia o comandante do campo encarrega-o de construir um violino e é nessa tarefa que Daniel concentra todas as suas energias, pois enquanto transforma a madeira no violino, aquele instrumento torna-se o seu escape, uma maneira de se sentir humano outra vez…Este livro lê-se muito rapidamente, primeiro pelas poucas páginas que tem(aliás, pelo tamanho talvez seja só uma novela ou conto, não sei bem) segundo porque rapidamente somos transportado para aquele mundo bárbaro e surreal (embora tristemente verdadeiro) e sentimo-nos compelidos a continuar a ler, acompanhando o esforço hercúleo de Daniel, apesar de já sabermos que ele consegue construir um violino fantástico (afinal todo o livro é contado em flashback) .
Não era bem o que estava à espera.É a história da construção de um violino em Auschwitz
This isn't necessarily a good thing, though - this book is about the Holocaust, one of the most horrendous events ever to occur in our history, and a throwaway hour in front of the fire seems ...
The very word 'Auschwitz' makes me shiver, feel a little nauseous, darkens everything around me, but this book evoked none of that feeling: it was quick and easy, and those are the two things I feel Holocaust fiction should not be.
The only moments that stirred some genuine interest and emotion in me were the real copies of documents rescued from Auschwitz with which Anglada has framed each of her chapters, and the descriptions of how the violin is made.
"A Canção de Embalar" bate aos pontos este livros, mas não deixou de ser uma leitura interessante e de "abrir os olhos" - Um dos meus maiores problemas com este livro é o facto de o autor esperar que o leitor saiba as partes estruturais de um violino e as ferramentas e técnicas utilizadas para a sua construção.
- Acho que este livro não é tão representativo do Holocausto, mas sim uma história movida pelo personagem que, por acaso, se encontra naquela situação.
This is a hundred pages beautiful, haunting and powerful novella about a luthier imprisoned in a sub-camp of Auschwitz, forced to make a violin, which can save or end his life.
Very beautifully written, lyrical and not at all melodramatic, The Violin of Auschwitz might as well be considered a love story between a man and its beloved craft, the esquisite violin which will be forever proof of some things that shouldn’t have never happened.
I decided to take a break from the poor reading choices I've been making recently and read this novel, just arrived in the mail today.
It was a swift read -- the book barely breaks 100 pages -- but so refreshingly good!
The sun began shamelessly to unravel the fog, banishing it from the sky, and the names of the murdered were swept away by the wind, removed to nothingness."This book is, especially, a treat for people who love stringed instruments the way I do.I received this book gratis from Goodreads' First Reads program.
This is a tender little book, very moving and enlightening although it is barely more than 100 pages.
I find that no matter how much I have read or how much I think I know about the Holocaust and its perpetrators, there always seems to be some new horrible behavior or event to learn about with regard to the heinous actions that were perpetrated upon a helpless people simply because of what they believed and/or how they worshiped.
I believe sincerely that it is the reason why we must never forget.
At that time, our wildest imaginations would not have produced such monsters or events.
Pretty typical holocaust literature.
And the prose style was lifeless.
With literary fiction style and character drive the work and this possessed neither compelling characters nor an interesting use of language.
If Ms. Anglada is indicative of the best Europe has to offer then I weep for the peninsula.
It wasn't bad, and if this is your introduction to holocaust literature you may even call it good.
But within the space of holocaust literature it isn't either original or compelling...the best which could be said of this is that it is typical/average.
And, really, is there any greater condemnation of literary fiction.
This slim offering clearly conveys the horrifying existence of those imprisoned in concentration camps.
Despite brutality, starvation and much deprivation, the author has shown the determination to live.In a small section in Auschwitz, Daniel, who had been a luthier or violin maker, in his former life is assigned to fashion an instrument for the commandant there.
Little benevolence was offered to him, but he was fueled by his love of his artistry and his memories.
*************************************Of interest, though tangentially related to this book is this item relating to violins and orchestras in concentration camps.'Violins Of Hope': Instruments From The Holocaust : NPRwww.npr.org/.../violins-of-hope-instr...
"Ljudi ponekad govore o "zvjerskoj" okrutnosti čovjeka, ali to je strašno nepravedno i uvredljivo prema zvijerima.
"Profinjeno okrutni".
A tako strašno, bolesno, sadistički, nezamislivo okrutni.
Ne mora me, doduše, knjiga podsjetiti na to.
Mogu se samo malo osvrnuti.
Sasvim malo.
Koliko je čovjeku potrebno i što je to što ga nagna da postane takav?
I zašto netko postane takav, a netko, u istim uvjetima, postane bolji i draži i nježniji i suosjećajniji nego je bio?
Ponekad mislim da nismo zaslužili ništa.
Sve smo zeznuli.
Ponekad mislim da bi se sve trebalo vratiti na početak.
Knjiga je izvanredna.
Estava curiosa mas a história não me cativou. Não sei foi a escrita ou a forma como a autora quis passar a mensagem! É uma bonita história mas depois de ler tantas histórias sobre o holocausto, acabou por não me cativar.
El llibre no m’ha agradat perquè aquests temes de la segona guerra mundial no m’agraden perquè sóc massa sensible, la veritat que ho he passat malalment llegint-lo. Per això no he disfrutar del llibre i només he posat dues estrelles encara que a molta gent li ha agradat. A més a més, crec que és una història bastant plana que moltes vegades és molt lineal. Jo també m’esperava alguna cosa diferent
Whilst giving his profession as a cabinetmaker, Daniel is actually a luthier, a violin maker.
Some of the scenes which detail Daniel’s craft also tend to be a little long, or rather repetitive.Anglada details how Daniel comes to rely on those around him in some ways: ‘His fellow inmates – lice-infested, like him, to a greater or lesser degree – provided a warm, familiar reassurance’.
There is a flatness to the whole, though, and it is rather too distanced – the fault of the third person perspective, perhaps.Catalan authors seem to do novellas well, but I must admit that I have a preference for Maria Barbal’s Peirene-published Stone in a Landslide, which I read a couple of months before The Auschwitz Violin.
The writing is choppy, skips and jumps hither and yon, and I truly kept asking myself, "what is the point of telling this story?" Arriving near the end of the book I really got even more astonished as we are at one moment with Daniel still not with a finished violin, and in the next paragraph the author jumps to the future long after the violin is done and we are in the presence of one of Daniels camp friends reminiscing about the past.
Daniel's experience got left behind somewhere without the details of how he finished the instrument and what the reaction was of the Commandant who wanted this violin.
