https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38502.Notes_of_a_Dirty_Old_Man
I quite liked your political statements, they showed that you after all used your intellect, what-ever-much was left of it in your intoxicated brain.Your diary reminds me a bit of Celine, and maybe that was your intention, you were a man who had read a great deal.I realise that you in your life have felt betrayed and not as valued a writer as you thought you deserved.
Grammar-wise, there is something called “capital letter after punctuation” which you choose to neglect totally throughout your diary.
Just before he sits, he sees an object on the bench which recognizes as a book (let's again suppose that there are books on his planet and that he knows how to read).
Now, if you look close, you'll see a certain expression on his face.
Now you see him lowering the book and looking straight ahead without really seeing much.
Why is his blood red?So, I guess I chose a somewhat extravagant way to say that if an alien's first touch with humanity was through this book, they'd totally kill themselves without thinking.
Rating books with stars, like bars or restaurants or anything else is pretty silly.This was a good book to read at night while drinking pints at pubs in Seattle.
(Indirect book quote)I'm reminded of World War Z; each story is captivating, but you tire a little of the style.
However just as you're tiring of the style, you get caught up in the next story.I bought my dad a copy of this book...
he told me it reminded him of Kerouac.
Like a quote from Field of Dreams.It's also a kind of life I appreciate, which, perhaps is easy to take the wrong way.
Because life is for the living.
I had a Chuck Bukowski kick back in 2004. I moved out of my father's house the year prior, inadvertently isolated myself from most of my friends, got a soul-draining job in retail, and fallen into a bit of depression (which hardly anyone noticed). Though I hardly remember what I read, it spoke to me because I was in a toxic environment and Bukowski wrote with an honest intensity that was lacking in my life at the time.
While some of the stories successfully disturbed, there were also some priceless nuggets of wisdom in these pages about the futility of revolution and in this Socratic exchange, about how this world makes us all mad: "you say you often feel this madness, what do you do when it comes upon you?""I write poetry.""is poetry madness?""non-poetry is madness.""what is madness?""madness is ugliness" (178).And ugliness is a fact of life, as "Notes of a Dirty Old Man" shows, page after page, but I still couldn't stop reading, because in the end, every story leads to the same place, and this is it: "man, I'd like to see a good pair of shoes on every man walking the streets and see that he gets a good piece of ass and a bellyfull of food too.
This novel is mainly dealing with gabling, drinking and whoring which Bukowski is really good at, but what I find him to be even better at is his way with words and that does not show its true colours in this book.
I read for the prose when it comes to this author, so I was very disappointed to find a lack so enormous that I could hardly get through the book.
What I enjoyed the most about this book was the ending and not just because I could finally put the book down for good, but because of its optimism.
"...il mondo fa di noi uomini (e donne) dei pazzi, e perfino i santi sono dementi, non si salva niente.
stando ai miei calcoli ho avuto soltanto 2500 pezzi di figa ma ho visto 12.500 corse dei cavalli, e se posso darvi un consiglio, ecco qui: datevi alla pittura ad acquarelli."Almeno una volta all'anno ho la necessità fisica e mentale di ritornare con i piedi per terra e osservare la realtà intorno a me senza -ismi vari e cazzate simili.
Per guardarmi in modo ironico mentre, di volta in volta, indosso le varie maschere che uso per destreggiarmi senza danni nella realtà quotidiana.E allora leggo Bukowski.
So dirty.So drunky.So angry.Truly like an American Celine.
I was expecting something witty and intelligent, what I got was violent, crude, misogynistic and highly unpleasant, in the beginning at least.
Beneath the vulgarity, self-loathing and woman hating, there is a glimmer of something.
It could be just the authors’ alter-egos desire for self harm.
Maybe it is a commentary on the depths to which a down-and-out (or if you prefer a poor unfortunate who has had some bad breaks) will sink in order to avoid the real world.
It didn’t light my world on fire.
There are some really, really interesting and great short stories in this book and there are some really weird, messed-up ones which leave you saying or thinking WTF?
One good surprise was a short piece about Bukowski meeting Neal Cassady shortly before he died.
I have read some Celine and think he is a pretty good writer but terribly pessimistic and misanthropic - sounds right up Buk's lane huh?In conclusion, this book would be exceptionally good if it didn't contain those few really disturbing stories.
And not even because it was nasty or creepy (because let's face it, despite panic attacks and crap, I made it through Brett Easton Ellis' American Psycho and if I can get through that, I think I can get through any book).
This is the first of his books that I've read and I catch myself thinking that I really don't hope the rest of his book are the same.
Because when I finally, after three days, managed to turn the last page of this 200 page book, I just didn't care.Ive heard great things about his way of writing and what he can do with words.
Entre los títulos que he mencionado están dos libros de relatos y una novela corta.
En este caso es un poco diferente lo que esta libro tiene para ofrecer.Resulta que en los años 60 (a finales) Bukowski escribía para una revista independiente llamada Open City y hay que tener en cuenta que era la época de la entrada de la era hippie y poco a poco la generación Beat iba desapareciendo.
Pero no puedo negar que este autor tenía algo de beat, en el sentido que iba contra lo establecido y no temía decir que la sociedad americana era una mierda.
You have to put Bukowski's sexism aside in order to enjoy his witty, often brutal tales from the American underground. Fun to read.
To jest zbiór tekstów, felietonów, które Bukowski publikował w jakimś czasopiśmie.
Publicystyczne przemyślenia są dziwaczne, chaotyczne i raczej nie będą się podobały komuś, kto nie jest tak bezkrytycznym fanem jego pióra jak ja.
Ale wśród tych felietonów są i takie, które mają formę opowiadań.
Niektóre są na najwyższym poziomie Bukowskiego a historia poderwania w barze puszystej młodej damy wraz ze sceną erotyczną, która zakończyła się zdemolowaniem łóżka bezustannie mnie wzrusza i mną wstrząsa.
Aha - to był dla mnie rok Bukowskiego.
Przeczytałem już chyba całą prozę Bukowskiego dostępną na polskim rynku.
I do każdej z tych pozycji na pewno wrócę (a do niektórych już wróciłem)
... стигнах малко след половината, не я дочетох ...Ще се пробвам пак, когато съм в по-синхронно настроение ... може би.
I cannot believe that the author of this book and "ham on rye" are the same person.

This is Bukowski at his visceral best - a collection of his columns originally published in 'Open City' in the 1960s.
By turns hilarious, disgusting, prosaic and profound, these vignettes of distilled humanity are somehow rendered all the more powerful for the squalor and the cheap sex and the shameless alcoholism.
As much as these little stories are impossible to forget, however, it is Bukowski's wry observations on life that really shine through, such as 'The difference between a brave man and a coward is a coward thinks twice before jumping in the cage with a lion.
The brave man doesn't know what a lion is...'
Up was Berkeley.
And mainly because too many whores are depressed because of their jobs and so they take drugs to forget.
But then again, a lot of people have depressing jobs and take drugs to forget, just not that kind of job, the kind that makes you feel icky about yourself.Maybe some day another one of Bukowski’s books, or this one, will land in my lap, and I will see what I really think about it, as if I didn’t know already.
Still, this book could have been artsy, and that would make it worth reading again.
This is the lowest I've ever rated a Bukowski book.I think Bukowski says it best in the beginning, during his time writing for Open City, the paper was so busy that the editor often accepted Bukowski's pieces without second glance, more than likely due to his recent brush with success.
The stories either go absolutely nowhere or break off into some half-assed meta-tangent.Notes of a Dirty Old Man is 204 pages of Bukowski jacking himself off, getting drunk not off wine or beer, but off the diluted notion that he is some genius artist reaching new plateaus of writing.
Bukowksi worked well when given every writers dream: carte blanche to write whatever he felt like writing, only to have it reproduced by the LA FREE PRESS and on the streets in a week, being read by thousands.
Bukowski himself writes of the magical feeling of having the freedom to write whatever he wanted and the sudden notoriety he aquired with his new exposure.
The foreword written by Bukowski to this book pretty much tells the story best as to how he came to work for this paper, as well as what it did for his writing and reputation back before he was truly famous.
Worth mentioning as a warning to anyone that has not read much of this author, this specific book holds some of his most offensive and tasteless writings that would seem to fall under his testing these boundaries of complete acceptance by this particular publication.
As he was churning these out for the Open City press, I gather Bukowski would have been writing many of the stories for his own amusement, just to see how far he could stretch a tale into the obscenely bizarre - as there are many in this collection that defy reality, but it is pertinent as it is free flowing intoxicating imagination peppered with some predicaments like the piece about Bukowski's parents and the Frozen Man that is quite introspectively sad.
Notes of a Dirty Old Man has all the stickiness of ill mannered sex, sordid situations, crass thoughts, and broken down poetry, but it does feel good to read it, like taking hard liquor that burns the throat, once it hits the belly it loosens you up.
I really don't get what makes Bukowski so profound.
Bukowski's writing is called Dirty Realism.
This book is a collection of little snippets of stories, based on Bukowski's life.
The only thing he seems to have going for him is a large penis, but in my opinion, he's so dirty, smelly, and disgusting that I wouldn't touch it with my enemy's vagina, just so I could ask her how he was.It turns out he produced a shit-load (an appropriate term) of work.
I feel like I could give any local homeless drunk in North Hollywood a typewriter and some paper and he would come up with similar stories.
So maybe Bukowski is profound because he was the first to write in this kind of voice.
This book isn't his best stuff. His prime writing can be found elsewhere. Yet Notes of a Dirty Old Man is gem for any long time Bukowski reader because he reveals aspects of himself that are missing from his big titles. This collection of writing has a freer vibe and is more experimental. Political, post-modern, queer, themes almost untouched in his massive body of work.I give this book five stars for its insightful qualities into a writer I thought could no longer surprise me.
Ler Bukowski é sempre uma experiência única, as narrativas acabam por mudar o seu interior de alguma maneira, isso devido ao relato pungente e arrebatador que é a vida desse completo bebum, que vai além de tudo o que é "permitido", dando uma prova do que pode ser um lado do espirito humano. Bukowski não esconde, um depravado sem objeções, com a língua solta. Recomendo pra todos.
Title says it all.
Prvý Bukowski! Neviem prečo som čítala práve túto knihu, ale páčila sa mi.
If he isn't bluffing, he has coasted from a childhood of abuse and hatred to an adulthood of boozing, rape, violence, and laziness, all while maintaining interiority and literary wit.Of course, that doesn't make any of his literal and figurative woman-bashing acceptable, but it's part of the entrance fee for reading this shit.There is a sequence in "Notes of a Dirty Old Man" where a painting instructor gives a young Bukowski brushes and paints (he didn't bring his own), and instructs him to paint a vase, just like his classmates.
Es en este momento cuando me doy cuenta que el escoger libros relativamente cortos quiera decir que me los acabaré en un pestañeo.
¿ves?Diré que a veces, este chiquillo me parecía un pedazo de mierda que vaya dios a saber porqué es famoso.
Y la mayoría de las veces, vaya que tenía razón.
Tres estrellas al libro, ya que me aburría y me asqueaba, pero luego me abrumaba tanta verdad y pesimismo sostenidas en un mismo ser humano.Volveré a leerlo cuando me haya convertido en una Mujer Congelada, a ver si le encuentro más razón la segunda vez.
