https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53360.A_Testament_of_Hope
it's too bad that really the only thing most people have heard from King is his "I Have a Dream Speech", because although historically important, there are so many even better things that he wrote and spoke about.especially good were many of the writings that he did near the end of his life.
i wonder what impact he could have had on poor people's movements and labor movements were he not killed so early in his life.these speeches are important reading not just for people who want to get to know King's mind more thoroughly, but also for those of us who really need some inspiration as both the right and left continue to disappoint us.
Martin Luther King's Testament Of HopeFirst published in 1986, "A Testament of Hope" remains the most comprehensive single-volume edition of the writings of Martin Luther King, Jr. The book consists of 57 selections from King's books, essays,sermons, speeches, and interviews, all of which work to give a broad picture of the thinking and accomplishments of this great American civil rights leader.The book includes works of King that many readers will find familiar including the "I have a Dream" speech delivered in August, 1963 on the Washington Mall, but it includes many writings that remain difficult to find, even in more recent anthologies.
I'm really enjoying getting to know Martin Luther King, Jr. better.
I'm so glad that people, leaders and forces came together in the 60's to start a long-needed movement for civil rights for blacks.It's interesting to compare Martin Luther King's desire for complete integration with the black movement following his martyrdom--that of black equality, but separatism.
reading this made me think of what would have happened if Martin Luther King had not been killed.
If he hadn't become a martyred hero, would he be as well known today?
Other than as a small part of the civil rights movement?
Or just a civil rights day?
I started reading A Testament of Hope: The Essential Writings and Speeches of Martin Luther King, Jr. after I was halfway through the autobiography of Malcolm X.
He was truly deserving of the Nobel Peace Prize he was awarded for his contributions and commitment to non-violence.Since this book is a collection of speeches and writings, it can be quite repetitive.
This might put some people off but I was happy to read his words again and again.
Many people that I know will be unfamiliar with it though it was one of my favorites; a must read.
As always he is frank yet loving in his words.
“Studying King is valuable for anyone,” Miller says, but “comprehending King’s oratory is particularly important for organizers undertaking other large-scale mass movements aimed at, for example, preventing genocide, dismantling nuclear weapons, ending global warming, halting ill-conceived wars, feeding masses of starving children, preserving endangered species, or stopping HIV-AIDS.” A Testament of Hope, the most comprehensive—and affordable—collection of Martin Luther King’s speeches, essays, interviews, and book excerpts, offers the burgeoning social justice advocate and serious scholar of King almost all of the necessary tools for beginning to understand “the most controversial figure of the 1960s” and his involvement in the civil rights movement.James Washington divides A Testament of Hope into five major sections: “Philosophy,” “Famous Sermons and Public Addresses,” “Historic Essays,” “Interviews,” and “Books,” the last of which includes considerable portions of King’s monographs like Stride Toward Freedom, The Strength to Love, and Where Do We Go From Here.
I read a lot of books that I think deserve 4 or 5 star ratings, but there are always a few outliers who are so terrific that it feels unfair to lump them in with the others.
I decided last year to just buy this book and use it as a devotional of sorts, reading a few pages per night.
I am not one to make or use marginalia but I have fully scribbled, underlined, starred and exclaimed through every page of this magnificent book.
An incredible collection, covering the wide-ranging scope of King's thinking and analysis, most of which we never hear about since he has been restricted to being a Civil Rights leader only, an important role but much narrower than what he was actually doing.
King reflected and commented on the economic system, the U.S. international role, the development of other nations, etc., and his thinking remains germane today.The only criticism I have of this book is that it needed a thicker editorial layer.
It would have been useful to have an essay at the beginning of such "chunks" that described the main points he was making, and how and why the speeches were modified for different situations or as his thinking changed.
Excellent book! This literary composition entail speeches and interview transcripts such as Pilgrimage to Nonviolence (1960), Who Speaks for the South? (1958),If Negro Wins, Labor Wins (1962), Nobel Prize Acceptance Speech (1964) and Meet the Press interview (1966)
Should be required reading for all high school students. One might not agree with everything Dr. King says, but his arguments are clear and worth engaging with in order to develop critical thinking
However, I've never taken the opportunity until now to read a book that covers the essential writings and speeches of Dr. King.
A Testament of Hope delivers on everything it promises and then some.Some of Dr. King's best speeches on topics such as nonviolence, integration, democracy, and black nationalism are contained in this book.
It would also guarantee an income for all who are not able to work.""But there comes a time when people get tired.
We must all live together, we must all be concerned about each other."Definitely read this book.
Everybody wants people to think they are awesome.The Feel:There are so many juicy, crunchy ideals, morals, and concepts here that if I tried to quote everything that made me sit up and take notice, I’d be writing the entire book into my review.Favorite Scene / Quote/Concept:“...the important thing about a man is not his specificity but his fundamentum...not the texture of his hair or the color of his skin, but the quality of his soul.” ---Amen.“Along the way of life, someone must have sense enough and morality enough to cut off the chain of hate.” ---Jesus turned the other cheek.
As I read, I uncovered wonderful gems of wisdom spoken so many years ago that have withstood the test of time.
I lived through the turbulent years of the civil rights movement.
Unfortunately, I was too young and too insulated and isolated (living where I do) to fully comprehend what was going on at the time.
The most troubling aspect for me is that although civil rights "progress" has been made through understanding and legislation, we still live in a country where those who are in the minority continue to be marginalized.
Additionally, students who are minorities are bullied because of their traditions and language.
One of the most treasured books in my library, 'A Testament of Hope' is a challenging, provocative, and hopeful anthology of writings from the pen of Martin Luther King Jr.
'Letter from Birmingham Jail' is included, along with excerpts from 'Why We Can't Wait,' popular speeches, and interviews with various publications.
King's capacious mind and fierce courage remain unmatched.
His understanding of Christianity was transcendent in all the ways that matter.
Today's Evangelicals remain clueless.
A white person can never really understand the black struggle, but I don't think anyone who confronts it can diminish the importance of emancipation, equality, and a continuuing program of civil rights for all.
I've read several of King's books.
All of them have been profoundly life changing for me.
A Testament of Hope is the ultimate collection of King's writing and speeches in a single book, weighing in at 679 pages.Despite having read several of his books, I hadn't realized King's full spectrum for social and spiritual freedom until reading this book.
It's perfect for anyone who interested in in the man's life and believes that love can change the world.
Even for readers who are skeptical about love as a real force for change, this book will challenge their views.
This has the be the most enlightening book I've ever read.
I admire the insight this man had into social problems, namely segregation of race and the integration of black America into the norm of everyday life. His work shows a firm command of useful language around the concepts of equality, non-violent resistance, and social organization.One could translate all his written work on racial inequality from the 20th century directly into Economic Inequality of the world today, and the language, outcomes and values in his writing would be perfectly applicable right now.
It is easy to know Dr. King as simply an icon, a hero, a figure from the past, but reading his essays, speeches, sermons, and memoirs is a powerful reminder that he was a truly great and extraordinary man, a spiritual leader, a visionary, an unrelenting proponent of nonviolent social transformation, and an advocate for love and justice in all forms. His writing has moved me to tears on more than one occasion. If you are unfamiliar with either his deeds or his writings, stop what you are doing and read this collection.
What can I say, other than that this book changed my life!! It has helped me intentionally cultivate a nonviolence stance. I love that it is in order of year so that you can pretty much track his thought as time progressed. Excellent collection!
This is part of the reason the personal charisma of MLK was so integral to the movement: to be nonviolent, you have to all pull together, and he was good at uniting the fragmented dissatisfaction of people from many class backgrounds to achieve political clout.As I read, I am mentally comparing the movement as MLK envisioned it (note, I don’t say the way that it was) to the way other people around the world have tried to achieve social and political change.
But I would like to know if some of King’s ideas about the way change can happen would still work, and if they are transferrable.
I gave this book four stars even though it is redundant.
I think the content could get five stars, but the redundancy of the book leads me to not want to recommend it in the way I would if it would have had more variation (even the the point of deserving three), so I gave it four.It is not King's fault.
His speeches, interviews, and writings are fantastic, but he has no choice except to keep going through the same material because his audience changed from speech to speech, letter to letter...and his ideas were new to many of the people he was addressing.
Great book though.
I’ve owned this book since I took a class on Martin Luther King, Jr. in college and kept it because I vowed that I would eventually read the entire thing.
Well, I finally did read the entire thing, and I’m glad I did.
MLK is a popular name to toss around in American politics, but reading his words, it struck me that everyone would be well served by focusing on the entirety of his message and not just a handful of famous quotations.
His message for compassion and his belief in the human spirit – as well as his stony-eyed view of reality – made for powerful reading.
I think we all know this man and his speeches so I wanted to add a review simply to say that this is the most definitive of his work that I have found. That’s all I wanted to say. That it can be hard to find all of his work in one volume. This is the volume. Enjoy and may that moral arc bend for you toward justice.
Very good and eye opening book. I have a far deeper respect and understand for MLK than ever before. The ironic point about this is how unfortunately we have made seemingly not enough progress in the last 50 years.
I can’t say enough about the amazing man who wrote these articles, sermons, and books. His life is an inspiration. I hope I am willing to suffer for what I believe in as he did. Thank God for Martin Luther King Jr
Full of truth and power.
to understand the civil rights movement of the 1960's, this is a must read
I feel like I can truly use what he taught in my life now with everyone around me."I still believe that standing up for the truth of God is the greatest thing in the world.""...I say to you, my friends, that even though we must face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream...
that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of it's creed-we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal...I have a dream my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character."
(1958)18) The Burning Truth in the South (1960)19) An Address Before the National Press Club (1962)20) The Case Against "Tokenism" (1962)21) Bold Design for a New South (1963)22) The Ethical Demands for Integration (1963)23) Behind the Selma March (1965)24) Facing the Challenge of a New Age (1957)25) The Rising Tide of Racial Consciousness (1960)26) Equality Now: The President Has the Power (1961)27) The Time for Freedom Has Come (1961)28) In a Word: Now (1963)29) Hammer on Civil Rights (1964)30) Negroes Are Not Moving Too Fast31) Civil Rights No. 1: The Right to Vote (1965)32) Next Stop: The North (1965)33) Give Us the Ballot--We Will Transform the South (1957)34) If the Negro Wins, Labor Wins (1962)35) The American Dream (1961)36) I Have a Dream (1963)37) Eulogy for the Martyred Children (1963)38) Nobel Prize Acceptance Speech (1964)39) Our God Is Marching On!
Contains every speech, books, letters, interviews, and historic essays written by Dr. Martin Luther King.
What is revealed in this book is that he believed bitterness and hatred by both races is a malignant cancer.
Like others, I was most familiar with the “I Have A Dream” speech.
However, this book is a treasure.
If not all, several chapters should be on every high school reading list.
It is very thick and volume may be somewhat challenging but there were moments when I couldn’t stop reading.
This book has left me with the knowledge of his articulation and just his sophistication of the spoken word.
Most people think of Martin Luther King, Jr. only as a civil rights leader, and though they might acknowledge that he was also a minister of the gospel, they would never think of him as one of the great Christian thinkers of history.
Dr. King believed that authentic Christians live by the gospel and don't merely pay lip service to it.
While reading the speeches and writings of Dr. King I became attuned to his remarkable brilliance as an academic.
With this in mind, I re-visited the works of my idol (Dr. King) and developed the new appreciation for his intellectual brilliance.
Living in Boston most seldom know that Dr.King earned his doctorate at Boston University.
We are predisposed to knowing this man as MLK....but I have found that he is so much more.
Though I also appreciate the respect for Malcom-X.
I will say that the most overlooked quality and theme of Dr. Kings' message is that of "non-violence".
