https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32443.The_Eyes_of_Darkness
Dean Koontz is one of the world’s best paid author’s (bringing in more than twenty five million annually!), which means everybody who’s interested in books has probably read him–which is why I didn’t choose to review one of his more popular works like Watchers.Eyes of Darkness isn’t my favorite Dean Koontz book, but it was one of his early ones, which I think is a good place to start with Koontz.
If you don’t know, DK fist began writing sci-fi, and was sometimes publishing up to eight books a year under pseudonyms such as Deanna Dwyer, K.
This hardcover is numbered 378 of 400 copies produced and is signed by author Dean Koontz and illustrator Phil Parks on limitation page.
This was the first Dean Koontz book I ever read, directly leading to my Koontz addiction. :)
While reading these early books, you definitely get the sense that his writing speed outpaced his ability to come up with new ideas, and it's readily apparent that all the major elements and themes found in THE EYES OF DARKNESS were later recycled into other Koontz novels like SERVANTS OF THE TWILIGHT and SOLE SURVIVOR.THE EYES OF DARKNESS is by no means brilliant, but it has smarts.
Also, the writing is inconsistent--certain passages are excellent, others weak (especially in regard to the occasional moments of romantic melodrama)--probably due to the book having been somewhat reworked.THE EYES OF DARKNESS is not horror.
Of course, there was the excitement of the chase - typical of so many Dean Koontz novels.
There was also the 'weird and unbelievable' aspects to it, but that is why I love to read Dean Koontz!
It's amazing to me how he can weave a tale so crazy that when I try to explain what I'm reading to others, even I think, wth - YET...while I'm engrossed in the story, it's totally believable!
I listened to it via audiobook on my ipod while I cleaned and cooked, informing my family that I was listening to a Dean Koontz so I'll be pretty engrossed.
A very good suspense novel revised from his Leigh Nichols version. I know I read the original back in the 1980's but don't know how much was updated. I do know this version is very good.
If the kid in this book can crash helicopters and make guns not work with his mind, I submit he could escape from his captors without his mom's help. Also, he could write something less cryptic than just "not dead" on the chalkboard of his room.
Just not worth the time and paper, with an utterly lame ending. NEXT
A little generic, but even Koontz admits this in the afterword, as it being a book under one of his pseudonyms originally.Basically Tina's son got killed when he was 12 in a scouting accident trip, and his son was too mangled for her to ever view the body.
Now, a year later, she starts seeing supernatural occurrences in his room, like the writing of "not dead" appearing on the chalkboard in his room in front her eyes.
If Tina had been more realistic it could have worked better, but she is written as the stereotypical victim type for a suspense tale.
Hmmm, while not a terrible book I just didn't enjoy it I feel. The plot was a tad meandering, I'm all for twists and drastic changes to storylines but I think this book didn't know what it was. From the start it plays like a supernatural or paranormal story then at the end it's a biological warfare story. Mind you, Koontz, in an Afterword, mentions it wasn't one of his better books, at least he's honest :)
A great mix of action, good v evil, crazy scientists and unscrupulous politicians, paranormal and a touch of romance, make this an enjoyable and thought-provoking read.Another fabulous story by one of my favourite authors.Recommended.
A little bit ridiculous
This is an ealy novel by Dean Koontz, originally publihed under the pen name of Leigh Nichols. The start is quite spooky and intriguing, but the novel soon tuns into a run-of-the-mill thriller, with cardboard characters and a predictable plot. Sure, Koontz is always readable, but this one is far from his best.
Definitely not the best by Koontz. I felt as though the novelties experienced by Tina and then both Tina and Elliott grew tiring very quickly. Also, the ending felt rather abrupt. The plot just wasn't strong altogether, the characters weren't fully developed and I was somewhat glad to be done with this book.
A poor man's The stand?
I guess I should have been alerted to this being an early Leigh Nichols-pseudonym effort, and therefore not likely to be great.The book starts out fair enough, all the hallmarks (or cliches) of classic Koontz are here - psychologically-wounded female, dashing love interest with a splash of danger (Army intelligence background) who will get his leg over quicker than you can say "secret military intelligence project."Soon, said heroes are on the run from a shadowy government outfit, due to a dark secret from the past.
(hide spoiler)]Even for (early) Koontz, the weakness and laziness of plotting here is astounding.
Maybe if the book were about a third shorter it would be better.Written under a pseudonym (Dean Koontz as Leigh Nichols) it was one of several books he wrote this way.
Here the plot is one that will be familiar to Koontz fans (and it's not a bad plot) a shadowy government agency up to no good.
Now I'm "sort of" a fan of Mr. Koontz, some of his books are on my favorites list.
This one (as noted above) just takes way too long to lay it's story out, for the story we get.Also the characters (while again with Mr. Koontz's wheelhouse) are somewhat wooden and even stereotypical.
This is my first book by Dean Koontz and I will most definitely be reading more by him.
As explained in his new afterword, this book is quite different from his other books, which only intrigues me to try another one!This book follows Christina Evans, mother to Danny.
Is Danny really dead....or is something fishy going on?I was surprised in two different ways for this book.
I would not describe this book as being scary at all.
When I think of Dean Koontz, Stephen King, and other authors of the like I think 'scary'.
I was hoping for a little more long range closer, I would say.I strongly recommend you trying Koontz's writing.
Through it all, she kept focused on her goal (the truth about Danny), and didn't let anything stop her.
And poor Danny.
I mean, yeah - he's got some cool gifties now, and it'd be awesome to see how they progress and what happens as he gets older, but to be subjected to the repeated tests for as long as he had.
I think that's because Danny was able to get a little revenge on the people who kept him strapped down to that bed, and also because he was reunited with Tina.

Just basic Koontz, really -- not that that's a bad thing, obviously. The Eyes Of Darkness is a mixture of thriller, action, suspense, romance and supernatural, but nothing REALLY shone out too brightly. The characters are ok, the plot is ok, the dialouge is ok... it's all just ok. The ending is absurdly abrupt, however, and anticlimactic, and left me questioning why certain characters and parts of the book had been included. If you're new to Koontz you may like it, though I would recommend Shadow Fires, Twilight Eyes or Odd Thomas.
Similar to the books Julia and The Quiet Kill, The Eyes of Darkness takes readers along a journey into a secluded place, unfolding the mystery of a child who a grieving mother wants nothing more than to see again. Is there more to her son's death than meets the eye, though?
This was the first Dean Koontz book that I read way back when I was in my tweens. I was then trying out new book genres and was surprised to see that I actually enjoyed this one. Though the plotline was pretty shallow and the romance absurd, I would have to admit that in my 11-year old mind, it was the book that started my addiction to Dean Koontz books.
I enjoyed this book as entertaining. This story was originally written under a psydonymn, and he has reworked it and released it now under Koontz. There is some adult content that usually one wouldn't see in a Koontz book. This is a story of intrique and national secracy...and not as much paranormal stuff like you would usually read in a Koontz book. I enjoyed it.
Not as, leave the lights on scary, as some of his more recent novels but very good. Tina is just starting to get over the death of her young son, Danny, when she starts to have nightmares and sees things that cause her to question his death.Fast paced, with Tina and Eliot trying to out smart a covert, secret government agency, to find her son.Koontz does not disappoint.
It was a fast and easy read, some aspects were pretty easy to predict and the heroine bought into the supernatural aspect way too easily, but it was a good read. And true to form, Koontz used his favorite item, the lock release gun,lol.
This book was released & re-written by Koontz. So I'm re-reading it, however my Dog (not my dad) ate the front and back of the book plus the last few pages. Argh!
Couldn't put it down!
Koontz is always masterful, a great read!
I enjoyed reading this book, but it was not original. I bought this book, because I wanted to read horror, but it wasn't what I expected. I didn't like the action-part
