https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760110.Jedi_Search
It was fun to revisit this book that I liked when I was sixteen, again, mostly because it existed, but nostalgia was really the only reason I had any fun reading it this second time around.Jedi Search is the first book by Kevin J.
(Cool that we finally get to visit Kessel, though.) Meanwhile all this is happening, Leia is busy having a mental breakdown about Han and her children, all the while stuff seems to be falling apart.My main frustration with KJA as a writer is that he's all ideas, no execution.
The Good: An old-school entry in the Star Wars Expanded Universe, this novel brings the action and heroism you've come to expect from the franchise.
All small potatoes when you consider how good this book was.Conclusion: I was officially introduced to the Expanded Universe when I bought I, Jedi by Michael A.
Not only did it inspire me to read more Star Wars novels, it rejuvenated my love for reading, which I had lost years ago to television, movies, and video games.
Though I've read the entire Jedi Academy trilogy at least twice before, I felt it deserved at least one more go...and I'm glad I gave it one.
Painful, painful, painful.
I was smack in the middle of a revival of my love of Star Wars thanks to Timothy Zahn's Thrawn Trilogy.
I wanted more, had to have it, so I quickly snapped up these from my local bookseller.
None of the characters sounded like I imagined them...they said things they wouldn't say, did things that I KNEW they wouldn't do.
The worst offenses were against characters that Zahn had created...KJA's interpretation of Senator Bel Iblis was horrid, and Mara Jade with Lando?
Lame.
The added subplots were, well lame.
Lame is probably the best word to describe every original though KJA tried to shoehorn in.
Han and Chewie are out to Kessell to win its support for the New Republic after the events of Dark Empire I (Star Wars) (I haven't actually read that comic, but I've heard a lot about it).
Unfortunately, Moruth Doole has no intentions of joining and sends Han and Chewie into the spice mines, where they meet the Force sensitive, Kyp Durron.
Meanwhile, Leia holds things together on Coruscant, worrying for her husband, and Luke begins his Jedi Search, finding two candidates, Gantoris and Streen.I Liked:Kevin J.
I liked Han and Chewie in the spice mines (well, not being there, but their adventure there) and Luke's "Jedi Search" was pretty darn cool.
He had become the Emperor's chief lieutenant, just like his father, Darth Vader."You see I really enjoyed the Star Wars movies of my childhood, and also really enjoyed Timothy Zahn's Trilogy of books that began with Heir to the Empire.
What I did not want was a series of books that took the characters in a direction I did not wish to see them go, and Luke joining a resurrected Emperor was just to hokey for me.I kept reading for awhile, but eventually had to put this book down, and made the realization that The Jedi Academy Trilogy would simply not be more me.
The whole time I was reading Timothy Zahn's excellent Thrawn Trilogy, I kept finding myself being pleasantly surprised at how much I was enjoying the storyline and at how well Zahn conjured the spirit of those familiar characters while rendering new characters who flow seamlessly into the already well-established storyline from the films.
However, being a fan does not make one a good writer, and despite the fact that Anderson has penned some twenty sci-fi novels (including other Star Wars titles), it became apparent in the first twenty pages the difference in writing ability of the Hugo Award winning Zahn and this guy.
Kevin J Anderson is given the chance to contribute to one of the biggest and most beloved science fiction universes ever created, and he comes up with blob races.
A significant portion of the book is dedicated to blobs.
Racing.
More impressively, the entire blob subplot ends up amounting to nothing more than Lando Calrissian on vacation.
The entire section could be removed without affecting the plot of the novel.
This is probably the worst of several uninspired decisions made in this book.Despite this, several important characters are introduced in this novel, along with the Maw Installation, the most interesting plotline of the story.
FIRST THOUGHTS: 3.5 stars.
While JEDI SEARCH and I had a rocky start (due mostly to the abrupt character POV switches and me personally not being used to reading sci-fi), it mellowed out into an excellent story in the end.
I loved being reunited with some of my favorite people in the Star Wars universe, and getting to witness their adventures after everything that's happened in the films.
I think, of all the stories, I was most interested in Han's individual arc, but it all works together to bring it to a solid ending.
Pretty good series starter, and I'm looking forward to reading the rest!
I really liked this book and am looking forward to reading the next one in the series! I thought the writing was good and the storyline is really interesting. I would definitely recommend this book to any Star Wars Fan.The only thing I noticed that was funny was the author focuses a LOT on Admiral Daala's hair. Every scene with her, something is mentioned about her hair. I just found that a little odd but funny. Anyone else notice that?Overall, this is a good book!
3.5/5
There really isn't much I can say about this, other than the fact that I am simultaneously amused and appalled that my twelve-year-old self liked this book so much. In fairness, it's not that Anderson is a bad writer, though his characterisation makes me want to smack him frequently; it's just that I could only contain my laughter up to the time he describes one of the characters looking out at the city of Coruscant bathed in starlight. You know. Coruscant. The planet the entire surface of which is covered in buildings. And that was about ten pages in.
Better than what I've come expect from Anderson. oh, the usual cliques and short cuts are there, but there's also a real story.Every reader understands the significance of the red in Kyp's aura. Why doesn't Luke? Trying to increase the drama, authors often dumb down their characters to the point of silliness.Cover art sucks. Were these Star Wars book covers done by competing grade schoolers?
A really awful book. There are charcoal smudges all over the pages. The corners of the covers are bent and there are some deep scratches on the cover. Kevin j anderson is written on the cover and seeing that is always a bad thing. I must admit that the shiny bronze color is nice. The only really worthwhile thing about the book though is the Lando Calrissian portrait on spine.Overall I give it 1 Suncrusher out of 5
It was helpful because there are different series in the Star Wars universe with different authors and most of these book intertwine and share the same background.
I have a feeling that this is one of the first books on the timeline because Leia's twins are still young.Plot SummaryIt starts off with Han and Chewbacca going to Kessel to gain the trust of the smugglers for the New Republic.
He recruits the help of R2-D2 and C-3PO to search through the old Imperial database for known Force-users while he goes in search of a couple he has leads on.
The part I liked best was when (view spoiler)[ Han and Chewie got captured and forced to work in a spice mine and tried to escape with a giant man eating spider trying to kill them with a new friend named Kyp.
Leia was busy trying to save the new republic from dying, and Ackbar is in self exile on his home planet Calamari.
I would recommend this book for any person who like the following, star wars, action, suspense, the feeling of not wanting to put a book down, and absolutely wanting to read the next book but don't want the series to end.
He's kind of the star of this book, and he goes through a lot.
The villians he faces are sufficiently bad, although I found Admiral Dalla a little wanting.
The sun crusher is an interesting idea, although a bit overkill (it's over 9000!!).
He finds some interesting characters, and we can already tell that some of them are going to go to the dark side.
The most interesting one is Kyp, a kid Han rescues from the spice mines of Kessel.
I bet we're going to see a lot of him in the next books.
He takes us to several interesting new worlds and also explores places mentioned in the original trilogy but never visited (Spice Mines of Kessel anyone?).Anderson also works hard to fit this book into the EU timeline, referencing the Thrawn Trilogy, the Dark Empire comic series and more.
At its best this attention to detail can make the book feel like it is written as part of a rich tapestry and against the backdrop of a much larger universe.
At its worst, this technique just makes it feel like Anderson is trying too hard and writing only for the fanboys.The novel is at its best when Anderson branches out to completely new places with new characters.
My overall impression was mostly meh with the saving grace of an enjoyable blob race.This novel really was just a long string of convenient coincidences and some ridiculous revelations (seriously?
seriously!!??) with a side of yawn-inducing clichés.
I mean, I get it that the author wanted to show Leia both as a competent politician and a good mother but Jeez, it was just too convenient that she had to deal with this situation alone while Han was tangled up somewhere else.Plus the whole plot with Tymmo was just icky.
Genderbending is cool, but please don't do it and then make fun of this situation.
I read a lot of crap spin offs from Star Wars when I was in middle school. I barely remember this series, except that it tied in with the Tales of the Jedi comic series, and the Thrawn Trilogy.I admired Kevin J. Anderson's commitment to consistency. Even though it is a losing battle against a swirling storm of crap ideas and subpar writing, fueled by the money of maladjusted tween boys.Also, this trilogy contains a really lame way of "one upping the death star."
I've never really given Star Wars a try before.
When I started dating my husband I agreed to watch the movies with an open mind.
It still wasn't really my cup of tea, but I see why people who like Science Fiction like the movies.
This book was good, though.
The movies helped me visualize the characters, so I'm glad I saw what I did.
I loved how the characters paired off doing their own things, and then it all combined in the end.
It was action packed and very descriptive.
As a Star Wars fan I enjoyed this book a whole lot. I know this is glorified fanfiction and I’m a bit embarassed to read these books in public. But still great (yet silly) stuff. Come on, it’s a book about Luke Skywalker looking for other Force-users to start a new Jedi Academy! How cool is that?! Seriously though, If you’re not a fan, don’t touch this book.
Is this a great book? No. Did I read it three times? Yes. But that's 'cause I loved me some Luke/Mara Jade. They're not bad- better than most of the SW fiction out there, but kind of average for the canon storyline.
I picked this book up because it was easily available (in the pantry of my office :P) and also because I wanted to find out what the big deal about Star Wars was.Loved it :) Looks like I'm gonna be a fan soon :D (or wait.. am I already?)
I was entertained by this continuation of the Star Wars saga. Nothing too deep here, just good sci-fi fun! However, the constant reminders of previous story lines and nods toward one liners from the original movie series did get a bit old after awhile.
Probably part of that is simply nostalgia versus reality, but I think the big thing is that when I read a book called Jedi Search that opens the Jedi Academy trilogy, I want to read about Luke Skywalker searching for new Jedi and founding an academy.
Plus, it's a neat way to introduce Kyp Durron, the most important new character of the trilogy.
I liked that as a Star Wars way of exploring the idea of "just following orders" and how it's nonsense.
The last Star Wars book I had read before this one – following the chronology of the stories themselves – was X-Wing: Isard's Revenge, and especially in comparison to that one, Jedi Search is a FAR superior entry in the expanded universe of novels.
(Maybe this is just a pet peeve, but I lost track of how many times he wrote that some character "managed to" do something.) But Jedi Search is a well-crafted book with some original storylines, clever twists, and interesting new characters in addition to the classic mainstays from the films.Moruth Doole, Qwi Xux, Kyp Durran, and especially Admiral Daala are all welcome new additions to the Star Wars universe, and the secret fleet that Daala is helming (which I will not discuss in any further detail as to avoid spoliers) is a really intriguing and refreshingly creative idea.
I loved Star Wars and was excited to read about Luke's academy and Han and Leia's family.
I remember I did like the books but almost 13 years later I found I forgot a lot of details in the book.Jedi SearchThe first book is always the one that sets things up.
I think the parts with Han, Chewie and Kyp were my favorite.
That was a nice to include them.I understand protecting the Solo kids, but it just breaks my heart that they were separated from Han and Leia for the first 2 years of their life.
In the mines, the two, with the aid of a young Kyp Durron sought for an escape.Simultaneously, Luke Skywalker embarked on his search for talented Force-sensitives whom he could mold into Jedi within his new Jedi Praxeum.
After collecting Streen, an old hermit on Bespin, the trio made back to the Yavin 4 where the Jedi academy began.Dark JediWhile the New Republic struggles to decide what to do with the deadly Sun Crusher--a new doomsday weapon stolen from the Empire by Han Solo--the renegade Imperial Admiral Daala uses her fleet of Star Destroyers to conduct guerrilla warfare on peaceful planets.
Luke sets off to recruit his first Jedi, while Han Solo and Chewbacca go on a diplomatic mission to Kessel.
However, they are captured but just so happen to stumble upon a prisoner with Jedi potential.I felt that the book merely sets up the trilogy rather than having a story arc which concludes within this instalment.
There's more story development with Han and Chewbacca's situation, but the book's title suggests the focus was on the search for Jedi.
The location and extra recruits are simply mentioned during the Epilogue which seemed a lame way to conclude the book.I found it to be a very easy read.
I’m an avid Star Wars reader, but when I first heard of the Jedi Academy trilogy being essential to the Legends timeline of the novels, I had to make sure to take a shortcut to reading this if it’s any good.Honestly, it is.
This is evident in the Umgollian blob race and the spice mine escape chapter.The only good thing I liked about this is the introduction to Admiral (Natasi) Daala, Tarkin’s former lover and cutthroat strategist (although it’s not seen here, I think I’ll see more on Dark Apprentice), and of course Kyp Durron, the arrogant yet sophisticated Jedi from some of the Star Wars novels I’ve read.
