https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94721.Sargasso_of_Space
Класическа приключенска фантастика от 1955, която съвсем логично звучи леко остаряло. Романът няма претенции за гениалност, но историята за кораба на свободните търговци "Кралицата на Слънцето" и тайнствената планета Лимбо, съхранила останки от древната изчезнала цивилизация на Предтечите, бе разказана изключително сладкодумно. А и Нортън съвсем не е случайно име - дамата е представител на "златното" поколение на американските фантасти, срещата с което закъсня с почти половин век за българския читател (изключваме броящите се на пръстите двете ръце романи, прескочили "завесата"), носител е на Гранд Мастър за фантастика през 1984. Крайна оценка 3,5.
"Sargasso of Space" is the opening novel in Andre Norton's so-called "Dane Thorson series," and is a fine introduction to the books that follow.
In this first volume we meet Dane Thorson, a young cargo-apprentice who is assigned (by mechanical Psycho selection) to the trader ship Solar Queen.
(Perhaps Ebay will be conducting auctions such as this in 50 or so years!) The crew then explores this strange planet, called Limbo, and discovers the remnants of a lost civilization, as well as globular natives, space pirates, mysterious artifacts and so on.Ostensibly written for juveniles and "young adults," this novel has a strong appeal for "grown-ups" as well.
Я не знаю, что такого в этой книге, но прочитав в юности, я перечитывала ее потом не менее 10 раз.И только сейчас я увидела, что это целая серия! Перечитываю в н-цатый раз и бегом за продолжением.П.С. О да, и снова кайф!
“Saules karalienes” komanda nopērk tiesības apsaimniekot kādu nomaļu planētu Limbo, iespējams, ka tas būs viņu lielais ķēriens.Grāmatas ievadā brāļi Strugacki saka atzinīgus vārdus par šo darbu, uzslavē autores meistarību izcelt sociālas problēmas.
Tagad, kad esmu nedaudz paaudzies, man par nožēlu nācās atklāt, ka grāmatā jau arī ir tikai tā piedzīvojumu daļa.
Viņam nav nedz sakaru, nedz bagātības, un viņš tiek norīkots uz “Saules karalienes”.
Lai lasītājā nerastos nekādas šaubas, autore vajadzīgos brīžos to noskaņo pret sliktajiem Sargasu planētas pirātiem, un viss kārtībā.Vienu nevar noliegt, grāmata lasās ļoti ātri, jo viņa ir gan plāna, gan interesanta.
I was surprised to find out later that I was supposed to think she was a he.In a book like .Sargasso of Space I imagine readers did think she was a man, because this is a "gee-whiz isn't this exciting-space adventure." I like the protagonist, Dane Thorson, a young man fresh out of school, who takes a berth on The Solar Queen, a Trader ship.
The Queen isn't fancy, but her crew is tough and smart and when they buy trade and salvage rights to the planet Limbo, all sorts of adventures ensue.
It introduces Dane Thorson as a young man just graduated and chosen by a Psycho computer machine as apprentice-Cargo-Master to join the 12 crew members of the slightly battered Solar Queen, a Free Trader ship.
Once at Limbo, there's the planet to explore, mysteries to be solved, and a quick paced action adventure full of danger for young Dane and the crew.
Norton focuses worldbuilding and conflicts for the space adventures on trade between the planets and pits the heroes in her adventures, a small crew of twelve Free Traders who in essence always begin from a disadvantaged position, against the big "Company" or all-powerful and wealthy trading moguls who seem to hold all the cards.
I fondly remember some of the later books in this series, but I hadn't read this one. Got it at a yard sale. It's a keeper! The story is vintage Norton. A protagonist of humble origins sets out to make an honest living and finds all kinds of trouble. The action is non-stop, though sometimes psychological rather than physical. The characters are somewhat simple, but that works because it's a relatively large cast. Everyone gets their moment to shine, and the free traders even make a good score.
Proper swashbuckling sci-fiI grew up an Andre Norton fan. This was just the sort of Norton adventure I remember. Proper ending and all - not all the pseudo postmodern endings that spoiled my appetite for SF later on. I gave it a five not so much for its literary value but as a counter to the snooty purists who will inevitably look down their collective noses at such low brow fare. Thanks Andre for all the space fun. ;-)
Okay, I told myself I wouldn't start the Solar Queen books until I finished the Time Traders but when it comes to Andre Norton, I just can't help myself it seems. This was a all-boy ship crew, but Miss Norton's clear defining of their personalities made it pleasant. It mostly revolves around three young boys, Dane Thorson, the main character, along with Ripley Shannon and Ali Kamil. They have to learn to work together, or their first time on Limbo might be their last.
One of Norton's strongest SF books, Sargasso of Space puts us firmly on the side of the 'little guy' independent trader, the Solar Queen, aiming to make a profit within the rules, up against the bottomless pockets of the large trading combines.With an excellent combination of comradeship, mystery and adventure, this is a quick and engrossing read. The only mar is the usual issue with Norton's early work - women don't exist.
I have been an avid reader of Andre Norton works for years but I never got to read this book till now. It is odd to finally read the first book in a series years after you read all the others. It is a wonderful space adventure from the golden age of sci-fi. I think it was a excellent beginning to a series I have loved for years.
Когда искал данную книгу, узнал что Андре Нортон – это женщина.А после прочтения могу теперь сказать, какое именно произведение было взято за основу мультфильма "Тайна третьей планеты". ;)Да, вот так вот все и выясняется!
I have read this book a while ago when I read English books translated. However, it was Strugatskies translation which made it quite readable. Since I have tried the original works and they somehow were not very nice. Maybe my tastes changed, maybe the translation actually made the book better.
A fine classic space opera!
Started off quite slowly, but when the action started, couldn't stop reading, the mystery just compelled me to read it
Using the strong literary criteria, one can argue that "Sargasso of Space" is an entertaining novel with some weaknesses.
(This is very strange.) However, he may appear again, I suppose, in other books of the series which I haven't read so far.About the plot:Having purchased the planet Limbo from a government agency at an auction sale, a group of free traders are assigned to the Solar Queen, a trader ship, by a computer called Psycho.
Andre Norton's literary work had certainly put a strong mark on the American popular fiction in the second half of the 20th century.
"Sargasso of Space" is certainly not the best novel of Andre Norton.
Current popular science fiction has space ships with functional protrusions, signs of wear and tear, and built and residing in space, never to land on a large land mass.Computer MemoryWhen this story was written, computers were still using punch cards for memory and programming.
So of course, a science fictions writer's wildest imagination saw computers using micro-tape.
Digital content and solid state memory could not even be imagined by these masters of the genre.
people 50 years from now will probably look back at our quaint digital medium and solid state memory while they use holographic memory (what we imagine now), or something that surpasses even that.
There are three in the series and I remember wanting to read more about the Solar Queen's adventures.
That's the first part of the book.The adventures begin when the ship happens to be on a world where an auction takes place for trading rights for new worlds.
The Solar Queen manages to get the last world, but when they look at the specs for that world they immediately see there are lots of problems.
The rest of the book is a series of adventures, problems and danger the crew must overcome.
He was assigned as a cargo-apprentice on the Solar Queen, a relatively small ship, an older ship, with a crew of twelve.
At their first stop on the planet Naxos the crew takes a gamble at auction and buys the rights to a five-to-ten-year trading rights to a newly surveyed planet named Limbo.
Limbo is a planet that was blasted in an ancient war.
It’s uninhabited, but then someone who claims to be an archeologist wants to charter the Solar Queen to take an expedition to Limbo to search for signs of alien artifacts and ruins.
There's no other way to put it: this is a fun read.
Having just finished a Clive Cussler book, I'd have to say I enjoyed Norton's take on adventure far more than his even that is if 15 years older.It hooked me early.
As for diction, I have always loved Norton's style.
She is not overly wordy and the diction doesn't get in the way of the story, yet I get to learn new words to add to my vocabulary.
Her storytelling style is smooth, the pacing is great, paragraphs break when they should so you can just concentrate on teh story.
*Love* the world-building!
What an imagination and what a talent to apply it to this world and have the reader able to understand it effortlessly.
It was easy to follow through, and the character development was dynamic and continuous throughout the story.
A rare instance of seeing men in sci-fi novels written as humans, with emotions and fears not driven by loss of pride or ego - a much more realistic view of what a space explorer might look like and act like.
A more realistic view of what humans really are like.
Although, sadly, I don't remember encountering a single woman in this entire novel.
Sargasso of Space was fun and exciting, a good, classic sci-fi book.
The plot was pretty good, a planet of wrecked spaceships, alien technology and space pirates, makes for an exciting action-packed read.
The only complaint that I had with the book was that the characters were all pretty one-dimensional and flat.
Norton also made things a bit confusing by using a character's two names, first and last, interchangeably, which made it hard to keep track of who was who in the story.
Overall, it was a pretty good read and it kept me interested in the story.
Non-spoiler backstory thing I found hilarious:"Volcanic action, followed by tidal waves, had overwhelmed a whole nation in two days and a night -- so that Japan had utterly ceased to be -- washed from the maps of Terra."I don't think it works that way...Anyway, this was a quick read and I enjoyed it, although the characterization is weak.
And I mean, I get that it was 1955 so probably having a racially diverse cast where the black guy is really smart was doing well, but geeze was Rip's accent cringey.
Hurrah.I think there were zero women mentioned in the book, let alone actual characters appearing.Oh, and (view spoiler)[I hope they found that Rigellian in the maze and let him back out.
Good guys shouldn't abandon prisoners in creepy mazes.


My favourite sci-fi reads are usually those that present a plausible, possible future with interesting ideas about technology, culture, etc. Sargasso of Space presented very little of this. While there were a few ideas about alien life forms, the sci-fi part was mostly of the B-movie, bubble gum sort: blaster guns, rockets with fins and young men excited about space travel. Nonetheless, there was enough mystery and suspense to make the book a worthwhile read!
Sargasso referring to an area of the Atlantic Ocean. This is a nice adventure where space traders travel to a mystery island that is difficult to escape from. While a nice read, several of the mysteries appeared to be written into the story just to frighten the reader and were not explained by the end of the book.
This is a fun book. It is older fiction which introduces a world where space trade and exploration are the norm. The group involved win exclusive rights to a planet not knowing that the planet is home to a group of pirates. The mystery of the ships they find crash landed on the planet and how they came to be there leads them into direct conflict with the pirates.
Classic fifties sci-fi, this book probably deserves to have a 4.5 rating. Andre Norton was the beginning of my enjoyment of science fiction when I was a teenager and this book is a winner. What a wonderfully imaginative world Norton renders here. Highly recommended to science fiction fans.
First Pub (1955) Space Travel on a Cargo ShipSolar Queen is a basic bare bones interstellar tramp freighter. This is Dane Thorsons first assignment as an apprentice. The captain gets an invitation to check out and bid on new trade planet called Limbo. They crash land, now what?
