https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574121.Job_s_Niece
This is my first GLH, though I tried and didn't finish another one that had a very spoiled rich girl for heroine.
This heroine grew up rich, but when the book opens her father has died, leaving the family with crushing debt that will change their lives drastically.
At first it read like a George MacDonald romance - which made me quite happy as I love his old romance novels.
Finally it settled into a more typical old-fashioned romance, with the hero and heroine falling in love through letters and postcards, since they were on different continents.
I'm enjoying reading Grace Livingston Hill novels again.
I read them when I was in middle school, and I found a bunch on sale at a used book store and I had to buy them.
They are romantic and sweet, a little predictable and sappy, and very old fashioned, but happy and "feel-good" reads Job's Niece has a slighlty disappointing climax I think.
There is a lot of build up with the family troubles and etc, and then ...poof....evrything is wonderful.
I also want to know what happens to some of the characters and their situations, overall not my favorite Hill novel.
At one point the heroine is being pressured by her fiance, and he's using the whole "the husband gets to dictate to the wife" line of thinking, which she rejects by saying, "Milton, you have no authority over me.
I suspect Hill always believed that the best marriage is one where the husband and wife are of like minds, and she'd probably never bought into the argument that Christian women should abandon their beliefs in order to "submit" to their husband.
JOB'S NIECE by Grace Livingston Hill is an interesting inspirational historical romance set in 1920's United States.
Ms. Livingston Hill is considered the pioneer of Christian Romance and her legacy continues.
"Job's Niece" is book 11 in the "Love Endures" series,but can be read as a stand alone.
Fast paced story of hope,family,healing,faith,forgiveness and love.Can love bring salvation,hope and peace or more pain and hurt?
I enjoy this author's stories.It just goes to show you Love does Endure.
If you enjoy historical romance and family you will enjoy "Job's Niece".
I like these clean Christian romances by Grace Livingston Hill; however, I will say that her good characters are almost too perfect and her bad ones horribly evil, which can make them amusing although that's not the intent. They are well written though.
A Quickie ReviewThough it was good, it was a bit hard to get into, which is not what I've come to expect from Grace Livingston Hill. This is the second GLH book in a row I've read that wasn't up to her standard; hopefully, the next one I read will be better.Score: 3/5
So bad, it's funny.
JF-YAHil
Everything that can go wrong does, and then it all magically wraps up in about three pages, with a few major plot holes still gaping.
This was a great book with a happy ending that had a surprising twist to it. Definitely five out of five stars for a page-turning story.
I've never read anything by Grace Livingston Hill until this book so I really didn't know what to expect. I was so pleasantly surprised. It was a very sweet story consisting of challenge after challenge for the Dunbar family as one might expect - given the title. I admired Doris, detested Milton, and Zephyr - good grief! I wanted more of a conclusion; an epilogue would have been nice. It was old-fashioned, yet refreshing.
My favorite GLH bookI have always loved her books about families pulling together in hardship. This one takes the cake with well developed characterizations. Although following a tried and true theme, there are differences in outcome that are unique in this one. Highly recommend.
I love this author. Even with the time period she wrote you still live the story.
