https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18522.J_B_
I've directed this play three times and read it about 10. MacLeish's poetry is phenomenal, and this modern take on the Biblical story of Job is fascinating. In the end, J.B. denies both God (Zues) and Satan (Nickles), turning to human love as the only solace for human suffering. Even the staging--a circus ring--is unique. When Job's "comforters" are replaced by a Marxist, a priest, and a psychologist, MacLeish is devastating in his criticism of such shallow attempts to explain human suffering. It's quite simply the best and most unique play I've ever read/directed.
I thought the Nickles and Zuss sections were outstanding, but I was less interested in the JB sections, particularly those with his wife.
The original Job has an impersonal feel that dampens the emotion, but highlights the intellect as it grapples with meaningless misfortune.
I think it's this kind of play that Brecht was reacting to when he tried to distance the audience from the characters so that the emotional connection does not interfere with the overall thought of the play.
Again, however, the Zuss/Nickles and God/Devil sections of the play were outstanding.
If I were directing the play, I'd drastically shorten the JB sections and put the focus clearly on Zuss and Nickles.
J.B. By Archibald MacLeishPulitzer Prize winning Play The world sucks.
I could say worse but right now that is all I have strength for – the world sucks.
However – two ways to look at that world – however.
Rod – really great guy, brought me the play J.B. the next writers group meeting and told me to read it.
Brilliant – a brilliant play and just as frustrating as the book of Job itself.
Oh damn – another question.But the answer is no – no, he, he, he, he, he, he, nor will he ever replace HE.
I was pleasantly surprised with how much I enjoyed “J.B.”Based on the biblical story of Job, MacLeish takes that story and turns it into a modern day play.
He doesn’t know the actors are playing God and the Devil, or using him to prove how quickly man will turn from God when things go wrong.This is a refreshing take on the story of Job, and in the play J.B. is not just one man, but all of humanity.
The idea of the whole thing being a play, with J.B. the only one who doesn’t know, makes it even more heartbreaking as his life falls apart, and borrows from Shakespeare’s “the whole world’s a stage”.
This modern masterpiece has all the drama and poignancy of its Old Testament counterpart and it has somewhat a better ending and answers to the question about why bad things happen to good folks.
JB's blinding trust in a God, who rewards the good and punished the sinful, survives all that happens to him or his family.
The play raises the most troublesome question of faith and like the book Job has no faith sustaining answers except (1) the ways of God are mysterious (an answer unworthy of the question and those whose circumstances most need to know) and (2) your answer is the afterlife's rewarding heaven or fire-consuming hell.
This is unfortunate, however, because this work (and it biblical precedent, the Book of Job) engage questions that not only interest the faithful, but indeed, bear directly on the very experience of being human.
This is much more than a conceptual argument, because suffering is much more than a concept - it is a personal experience that is inevitably encountered and hopefully endured.
And one need not be a person of faith to draw useful lessons from this modern work, any more than one needed to believe in the Greek gods to draw lessons from the plays they presented in verse many centuries ago.
Since I am teaching the Book of Job in my lit class, I re-read MacLeish's wonderful play based on the biblical text.
Actually, the play is not so much based on the Bible story; it's more like the play argues with it, questioning many of the themes that the Hebrew text seems to take as axiomatic.
I love the play, having seen it performed once years ago; the final scene between Job and Sarah will have you tearing up, for sure.
On the whole, however, this is a must-read/see for anyone fascinated by the story of Job, for my money the most extraordinary story in the OT.
This is a stark and bitter account of an author who feels alienated from a God who could allow the human horror we often witness in man's inhumanity to man.
This is a quite good and highly imaginative account of someone who wished to survey a variety of possibilities for God and still find him wanting.
A good read for those familiar with the Biblical story and still believe that God and Satan are really playing a game.
It reminds me of how Satan at least at first is more likeable a character in Paradise Lost than God, who seems distant and somewhat unconcerned.
JB is described as a poetic drama. I got into the rhythm of it and began to appreciate the accomplishment of describing people’s suffering in life and the debate over man’s guilt vs. innocence. The play ends with these key lines:“Blow on the coal of the heart. The candles in churches are out. The lights have gone out in the sky.” I got the feeling that MacLeish was an atheist and reflected with amazement that we read this radical message in high school in 1968.
The characters were awesome. The way that MacLeish wove the acting with the reality was beautiful. The writing was wonderful and powerful. It is what really made this play epic.The premise was creative. The philosophy was stimulating. I could see this play in my mind; it was epic! I would love to go to the mainland and see it. That would be awesome. Ahhh, Job. It was unsettling an marvelous.
I would love to see this staged. Two clowns put on the masks of god and the devil and act out the book of Job. What is fascinating is how commentary and text are combined. What is more fascinating is the notion of faith in the play as something blind and trusting. Rather than make fun of the Biblical story, this play attempts to understand it. I am sure it would be a triumph onstage.
I read this play after finishing the reading of the Hebrew Scriptures for Chaplain Dennis Haas' introductory class on the matter at Grinnell College in Iowa. Of the contents of the bible, Job was a favorite and, as an hermeneutic on Job, J.B. is strongly recommended.The description of the book herein sounds silly, but the play actually works. It even reads well.
- There's an interesting meta-narrative (?) running throughout the play about all the characters acting/not acting according to their traditional Biblical roles.
For example, the God/Satan characters will often say things like, "why isn't he acting like he should?" This feature was an interesting way to explore how the average human acts (or doesn't act) according to the model of Job.
While the majority of the Biblical book primarily explores the dialogue between Job and his so-called friends, this only gets a few pages in this rendition.
The poetry is brilliant, and the character studies devastating. I'm still not entirely sure what I think of the ending, but I'll be pondering that for a long time, and given how impressive the rest of the play is, that may be enough.This is the second of MacLeish's plays that I've read, and wow, he's good at the format.
I’m not a huge fan of plays, but I do think this will cause some interesting class discussions once the new semester starts.
5.0 out of 5
The Book of Job but modern. I absolutely loved this.
Because I needed more reason to identify as agnostic...Definitely requires a re-read, but I’m going to let it percolate.
Our drama teacher SO wanted us to do this play. But Job's a hard sell for high school kids so we rebelled and did The Taming of the Shrew instead. In all fairness, though, this was a good play.
I thought that the retelling of the Book of Job was dynamic and deeply moving.
Nickels and Mr Zuss were fascinating to me.
The idea of play acting God and Satan as human beings, putting on the masks of divinity and disdain, creator and cast out, added a self-reflective element to how I interpreted the story of Job. Did I relate to Mr Zuss's/God's interpretation of the events or to Nickel's/Satan's?
Did i find Job's reaction to his misfortunes inspiring or misguided?
These and other questions were important aspects to reading this play, and I appreciated the opportunity to grapple with such complex questions.

i loved doing this playmy drama club just finished this play it was amazingly fun and very emotional
This production won both the 1959 Pulitzer Prize for Drama and the 1959 Tony Awards for Best Play and Best Direction.
I read this in High School almost 40 years ago and still had the original book.
It is a modern retelling of the biblical story of JOB, and one where a faithful JOB, while remaining faithful through his trials, holds fast to his innocence and struggles with the arbitrary injustice of suffering, and God's rule as witness and protagonist to that suffering.
This is a story that still has much to teach while honoring our free will and honesty in questioning, Why?
Stunning. Beautifully and compellingly written.It's a play, and poetry, so you have to be prepared to read the style, but it brings the biblical story of Job to life in a modern context. MacLeish delves into the depth of the characters and, avoiding cliche, makes them come alive for the reader. This work is honest about the difficult questions inherent in the story of Job, but sympathetic enough to bring them out in all their complexity.Well worth the read. A work you will not soon forget.
Reading this was fine and good and hard, just like Job is.
But seeing it -- there is just something about it.
I loved it.
I loved all the questions it raises and does not answer.
Why is life so hard?
Why do good things happen to bad people?
Why do good things happen to bad people?
What are we to do after we suffer and suffer and suffer?
Can we ask questions?
Must we curse God and die?
Can we not just choose to live?
The ultimate to be or not to be, this ancient story made modern so that I can grasp it just a little better.
A challenging work that, ultimately, felt more like an academic exercise in translating the Book of Job (with all of the questions that book raises) to (then) modern times. It felt dated and did not age well for me. Some of the theatrics were intriguing (the setting in a circus for instance), leading me to want to see it. I'd be open to changing my opinion once I have watched a full production of this Pulitzer Prize-winning drama.
J.B. won the Pulitzer Prize for drama in 1959 and the Tony Award for best play. I had high hopes of liking it, because I am drawn to the biblical story of Job and the subject of human suffering and how it reconciles (or doesn't) with belief in a just and merciful god, and also because of Archibald MacLeish's distinguished career as a poet, writer, and librarian of Congress.Let's just say that I didn't especially like it and that, in my opinion, it hasn't aged well.
I'm really glad I read this, and I hope I get to see it performed someday. I like the way it portrays characters and events from the Job story. It's also good to know this play exists for ministry purposes; as great as Godspell is, it sometimes gets a little old. While J.B. is not an easy play to take in or perform, and it won't be a crowd-pleaser, I will suggest it if I'm ever in a church that wants to do a meatier production.
If there was a Jeopardy category for "Books That Shouldn't Be Assigned To 14 Year-Olds", this would surely be one of the answers. I read it in 9th grade and I don't have any ambition to revisit something I loathed.I also didn't like my 9th grade English teacher, so that clouds a bunch of the stuff we did read.
An odd combination of avant-garde mid-century theatre and the Biblical story of Job, J.B.’s relative obscurity today isn’t shocking. It tackles some interesting issues, and I enjoyed reading it from an analytical standpoint, but it’s not a play I feel a burning desire to see staged. Quasi-recommended.
