https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/380494.Futurist_Cookbook
The afterword declares that this book is at least partly a joke.
It's also revealing to see how many of the ideas presented as surreal and shocking in 1930 are now used regularly in molecular gastronomy establishments (the presentation; the attempts to involve all the senses; the use of wit and references).
But there are some interesting ideas here, including the assertion that Italian cuisine is far too in thrall to pasta which is too heavy, boring and lacking in nutritive value.
I got this book to look at the art.
The cover's good, but most of the interior is bleckh.
The Italian Futurist movement was about art, but also about extreme politics and all the really fun stuff going on over there in the early 20th Century.
War as hygiene, dynamism, misogyny, urbanism, flag-waving blah blah blah.
The War to End All Wars sort of put a stop to the Italian Futurists.
But jolly ol' Marinetti brought it back after the war, and before the next - il secundo Futurismo.
so so so so wonderful! helps to understand how fascism was able to thrive. a heroic aesthetic movement full of dangers. so many of the ideological tenets have deplorable material consequences, but their prose is enchanting. as if gravity were a whimsical joke whose punchline is a fiery death, and they are hanging in the air along some swoopy trajectory looking for a laugh
Italians against pasta! How perfect is that as well as meals that are totally pornography as well as an aesthetic. I like the idea of having perfume sprayed in the dining area. As a vegetarian, I cringed while reading the recipes of some of the dishes - but I do like it when Marinetti & Company do their special magic that appeals to one's stomach. Superb document but also this is a beautifully designed book for the book lover
For the true hostess with the most-est. Menus for all occasions merrily provided. My favorite being the Wedding Banquet featuring poisonous mushrooms.
3,5
Ξεπερασμενο καλλιτεχνικο αστειο που σοβαρευει επικινδυνα σε στιγμες. Αλλα με εναν απελευθερωτικο ενθουσιασμο.
Insane, absurd, dark, scary, hilarious. One of the most memorable books I've ever read.
Sfida di lettura - giugno 2018."Il pranzo perfetto esige:1. Un'armonia originale della tavola (cristalleria vasellame addobbo) coi sapori e colori delle vivande.2. L'originalità assoluta delle vivande."
the "futurist dinners" that marinetti wrote are the only thing worth reading here, it's hard to love them given how awful the rest isskip all the other recipes/dinners by other futuristsskip all the vile racist / misogynistic rhetoric
If you have a man dressed in tin foil misting you with a spray of oranges and basil, then you probably lived in Europe during the early 20th century with the other futurists. Marinetti's writing style lilts and tumbles including some of the most bizarre food concoctions I've ever read about.
Uneven. Some parts were super fun, others were boring and repetitive.
its the ONLY cook book i have actually EVER used.excellent.
Delightful. Too bad the Italian Futurists were all Fascists, though.
