https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2782549-the-ship
Millions of human beings—and who knows if the animals don’t do the same thing—look up at the night with uncomprehending eyes and turn inward to a forlorn or frightened breast, their own.
But suddenly, far away, light penetrates through a crack.
And though the philosophical passages can meander a bit, they also help to coil the story with forces on the verge of explosion.
Forces that must, of course, find a way out before the finish.
This even finds a way to elegantly preclude The Vanishing in a single scene.I transcribed many more passages here, which actually was quite useful in digesting them.
This is not to say that the author takes any cheap shortcuts (a la 'it was all a dream') but the origami-like edges of his descriptions are so 'folded over-into-themselves'...you really can't be sure what you're actually reading.What you detect instead is that an enormous flood of musings, associations, asides, and insights are channeled toward you, the reader.
Amongst a mutinous crew, fuelled by ancient superstitions and prejudices, a quartet of protagonists clash and disengage with alacrity: Ships Captain, his daughter, daughter’s fiancé and the supercargo: a mysterious ‘gray man’ beset with existential angst.
This is how Jahnn’s characters portray for the most part: vehicles for long winded musings on the the assimilability of life and reason.The secondary characters (the crew) augment the core nicely but adding on additional layers of folklore and superstition.
Below, the crew provides a nebulous cushion of irrational fears and finally, the ship, a colossus of the unknowable.
Quartet’s reason and ships non reason collide as each seeks to destroy the other (albeit the ship is fighting back only metaphorically).
Gustave envied them, not for their miserable experiences, but for the particular smell of reality which would never be his because he didn’t have the courage, wasn’t sufficiently carefree, to let himself be torn to shreds for no good reason.”“He, Gustave, had seen him hanging in the thorny thicket of overpowering hellish hatred, at the mercy of a horrible heightening of his desires, a supernatural instrument of accumulated sterility, bursting upon all growing things like a shower of hail.”and“The futile expectations of a condemned creature are without parallel; the hope of being allowed to cross the saving threshold of a miracle is the bedfellow of the fear of death.”There is no holding back in Jahnn’s writing and no pretense of modesty.
Is the ship a metaphor?
Is each member of the crew a metaphor?
Suspenseful mystery-like (as in the genre sense) details mount and some are eventually revealed, some hinted, and some left unsolved.
Seemingly important events are forgotten by everyone only to surface again later in the book, sometimes.The key to the weirdness of this novel is the conventional nature of the structure and plot while the overlying illogic and unpredictable behavior by the crew, and the inexplicable mysteries that evolve.
People phase in and out; no one seems permanently nuts.My copy looks like a print on demand book actually published by Amazon UK.
(and maybe the book is one long crime and punishment minus the denouement--just accusations and guilt.)i did find myself a little struck by tedium midway through, waiting as the horror story set up itself--but then man, did i get walloped by the ending.
Blood, once secreted, once feeling its way blindly through the body, pulsating in a meshwork of thin streams, spreading the chemically charged hormones and their mysterious functions like a red tree inside man--this blood now runs out shapelesssly in great puddles.
The book alternates between mysterious goings-on aboard a ship carrying coffin shaped cargo and circuitous thoughts within the characters' heads...
etc.The prose style is so unique, often the sentences are notable for their handsome bone structure, alternating between vague unknowns and specificity.
I felt sea-sick the whole time.Yes, it is laborious at points, especially in the middle when you have no idea where all this is leading, but the ending more than makes up for it.Waldemar Strunck thought of his home and the joy of his loins.
Haunting. Comparisons to Soupault, Blackwood and de Chirico could be made.
rly enjoyed this. dark and gloomy atmosphere spiked with some cosmic pessism a la Schopenhauer; also has some rly gorgeous prose passages - def recommended.
Extraordinary things are nothing but steps that lead to crime, and the corruption of the senses seems to be the order of the day." The writing here, much like that in The Living Are Few, the Dead Many: Selected Works of Hans Henny Jahnn, is exquisitely dense, and completely unforgiving to anything but the most diligent of readings.
The aforementioned The Living Are Few, the Dead Many: Selected Works of Hans Henny Jahnn contains three excerpts from a larger work (Thirteen Uncanny Stories - which has also been translated but is out of print and completely goddamn unavailable) and one novella length story (The Night of Lead).
This was a recommendation in Steve Aylett's Heart of the Original. You can see why as it's deeply weird and has a chef in it. The rhythm of the writing is very similar to Aylett's; maybe it was a big influence. It's a sort of House of Leaves/Sapphire and Steel episode at sea, which in theory I'd love but in practice is way too cryptic to grab me. I ditched it halfway.
'But it doesn't mean anything to me.' "Things are escalating quickly after the illiterate carpenter Klemens Fitte, the son of a prostitute, is telling one of the strangest stories you will ever read in your life: the story of Kebad Kenya, a man who wants to be buried alive and who makes his neighbors who will inherit his big fortune kill his favorite horse without any apparent reason."After all, it was his intention to die without the help of death, and the effort to become motionless and cold took every ounce of his vigilance and strength."The story of Kebad Kenya leads the sailors to suspect that the coffin-shaped crates contain dead (or living) human bodies and they rush to break into the cargo room and open the first crate that proves surprisingly to be empty.Ellena disappears suddenly after a visit at the Supercargo's cabin.
I had to finish this book in about a week because I was only able to find it through ILL.
I wish I had about four weeks to read it because this book is driven off symbolism and raw descriptions of human emotions.
So much so that the actual setting becomes rather meaningless towards the end of the novel.
The writing is so involving that despite somewhat murky passages it compels you forward through the story.
Contrary to the title, It is certainly not a sea story, but a novel that will reveal itself more and more after every reading.
I don't know how I came by this - perhaps Ginger John sent it to me (seems very plausible).It's hard to rate this; it's a difficult book to read but getting from page to page is easy enough.
The only woman in the book "disappears" and may have been murdered and may have been raped, and may not.
As the preface says: "reading this book is like listening to the silence in public squares".I'm glad I read it: if nothing else it's an insight into modern German literature in the inter-war years.
I suspect it was very hard to translate, and from time to time that is clear.Hmmmm.
“Træskibet” !!!!!!!!!
You can listen to an in-depth conversation about Hans Henny Jahnn's 'The Ship' on Sherds Podcast: http://www.holdfastnetwork.com/sherds...
strange
Not many people know that Hans Henny Jahnn recorded a Death Metal album influenced by the work of H. P. Lovecraft. It was so evil that it went back in time and wiped out the dinosaurs, before jumping into the future and wiping out the human race. It was probably titled Organ Builder, Organ Grinder or something, idk...
Hans Henny Jahn writes:After all, guilt and innocence are terms that tell nothing of evil.
