https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/762763.Karate_Do
In this book, Gichin Funkoshi looks back over 90 years of his life, sharing stories of his experiences and his karate.
The developer of the Shoto-kan school of karate, Funakoshi was born in 1868 and saw many changes in the world during his 92 years.
From demonstrating his shoto-kan style of karate before the future Emporer to teaching United States airmen during the occupation after the Pacific War, Funakoshi spent his life promoting karate.
Not just the movements, but the spirit, the essence of what karate as a way of life truly means.This is not just a book for karate students or the curious.
(The style came to be called "Shotokan" after his pen name, to differentiate it from the other styles that followed one things loosened up at the turn of the century.) Funakoshi was an amazing man with an amazing story, or more like a reservoir of amazing stories, including the time he "faced off" a hurricane standing on his roof (which he later passed off as a foolish stunt of his youth), his encounter with a poisonous snake at night, his confrontation with a mugger in devastated Tokyo just after the war ended, and many more.
Every Shotokan Karate-ka ought to be given this when they 1st join their club: In his biographical masterpiece, Grand Master Funakoshi gives a very witty, intelligent & often funny account of his whole life, from his early days when he was forced to take up training for his poor health to when he was finally invited to Japan to give the first successful demonstration of his art - Shotokan Karate.
Despite the book being very small and could be read by some perhaps in a day or so, it really is very interesting and worth reading several times, especially if you practice Karate.
I know it's odd to put this in the writing category, but I read it when I was first learning to write action sequences in my fiction. I still refer to it once in a while.
This man has a very deep way of thinking about karate and his stories are so enjoyable. I really am glad I practice his style... Osu!
Interesting but I wish there were more history to it or that it were longer.
O carte excelenta despre viata si invataturile fondatorului stilului de karate Shoto-kan, Gichin Funakoshi.
I have just started doing karate, so I wanted to learn more Master Funakoshi - the man credited with popularizing karate throughout the world.
I found this book easy reading and would recommend it (see below)SummaryThis book is the story of Master Funakoshi's life, from a small child and how he grew to learn and love karate and the many turns in his life.
Interesting, but it's very hard to separate mythology and story telling from reality in this book.
I think that this could be used as a primary source to show the author's views on a martial art that he was indeed instrumental in shaping.
Some statements (students of karate need never be sick or ill) are clearly dismissible, and others are worthy of skepticism.
(karateka hardening fingers in bags of rocks, until they can disable opponents with a single finger thrust?)With that said, it was an endearing and fascinating book.
I'd recommend it to people interested in karate, but I'd suggest that readers stay alert.
In my formal Goju Ryu Karate training I read a library of books to better put myself on the righteous path of a centered existence.
This book was by far the greatest of all, it is a personal look back into the history of Okinawan Karate and the life of Master Gichin Funakoshi where he expounds on his personal learning's through youth with the clandestine Okinawan activity too his teaching in adulthood of one of Japan's greatest martial arts and how he was influential in its understanding and growth.
A humble man and a great master, he explains all in this autobiography he wrote prior to his death in his nineties.
It is a collection of interesting tales and an enlightening book for any person interested in Karate.
On the down side even though this book is short it can be quite hard to read as the events of this great man's life have not been noted in any particular order but seemingly as the memories came to him.
With a bit of editing to create a more flowing narrative this book would be far easier to read.
Still very informative and an enjoyable read, I would recommend to anyone who is learning or has an interest in karate.
I've read this book countless times, as it used to be like a bible to me. Gichin Funakoshi [founder of Shotokan Karate], recounts his life story in this book from his early years in Okinawa, where he practised Karate in secret, until his subsequent arrival in Japan where he founded probably the most widely practised fighting art. Loads of great stories and a great read for all martial artist's, not just Karateka.
This is a quick read, and an interesting insight into Master Funakoshi's life: his training in Karate, his development of Shotokan, moving to Japan, and promoting his style there, as well as a look into life in Okinawa. For someone who has studied Karate for a while, it doesn't have anything new to offer, but is a must for beginners.
Karate-Do is a story about the man, Funakoshi Gichin, who took Okinawa-te from Okinawa to Japan and developed the art into what became the Japan Karate Association and Shotokan Karate. Worth a read if you are interested in martial arts and Japan.
More than the story of a man's - a GREAT man's - life, this is a primer for how to live one's life. Whether you are a martial artist or not, the manner in which Funakoshi Sensei lived is an example to us all. A fantastic story and a great read!
Being a longstanding practitioner of Shotokan Karate, I found that the book did exactly what Gichin Funakoshi hoped for, as he stated, that it allowed for a bit more insight into how he developed the style, and also how it relates to his personality.I absolutely loved it.
thanks
http://booklvrslounge.blogspot.com/
I read this book annually to not forget the roots of Shotokan-ryu karate-do. Gichin Funakoshi is truly a master to learn from and such a great example of what karate is and teaches.
Fantastic book. I am sure I will read it again.
When you think of Karate (as we know it in the 20th and 21st centuries) think of Funakoshi Sensi. This book is a template for what and when to use Karate for. Brilliant.
Funny and interesting read from the father of modern karate, the founder of Shotokan, Gichin Funakoshi -- a very down-to-earth man.
Interesting book - if your interested in karate/martial arts or Japan it is a good book. not spectacular but certainly worth the read
This is a great book. History and philosophy of Shotokan Karate.
This book has some great insights into one of Martial Arts greatest teachers. This is a book I reread every so often.
One of my guides for living. "Karate-do begins and ends with courtesy."
It is seldom that a book about Karate or the Martial Arts in general really catches my interest and though Funakoshi does a thorough job of explaining his childhood, his clandestine beginnings of Karate and how he helped it spread through Japan and then the world, I found the book to be more just the recollections of a man about his life.
He explains how the training in Kata and technique will eventually carry over to everything that you do without you even realizing it at times.
Além disso, o livro é também muito bom em trazer as reais opiniões de mestre Funakoshi acerca de seu tempo, mundo, povo, cultura, etc., por falar nisto, estas opiniões mostraram-me como aquele senhor de idade era muito amadurecido para seu tempo, quando nós frequentemente tendemos a ver alguns homens tradicionais sendo muito árduos em relação a mudanças.
Isto me lembra de um outro bom livro que li, chamado "Bushido - A Alma do Japão" (tradução livre), escrito por Inazou Nitobe, que também era rico em informações sobre a cultura e pensamento japoneses.
Loved this book.
His love and respect for the martial arts granted the life, family, friends and values that he had throughout his life.
If you ever read this book and you practice martial arts or not, admist all the bullshit you may experience, it is important to have a strong faith of self-reliance on yourself.
To strive to be virtuous everyday is what Funokashi tries to preach without sounding like a presidential campaign ad and is backed by life recollections of experiences in his life.The most heartbreaking section imo is the last moments of Funokashi’s wife...Thank you Mr. Funokashi for spreading the good during your time!
Slim but powerful autobiography of the father of modern Karate, who played a pivotal role in popularising this art which was practiced secretly on the island of Okinawa, but became a global phenomenon largely due to the tireless efforts of this man.
The book also deconstructs a lot of sensational myths that have been promoted about Karate, no thanks to Hollywood and HongKong films.
A great read with a lot of takeaways.
