https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77433.The_Surgeon_s_Mate
Later there's violent storms, prison and wild escapes, the looming threat of torture...jesus, this is starting to sound like a melodramatic saga!Beyond all the fun and excitement, one of the real joys of these books for me is witnessing the friendship between Aubrey and Maturin.
I found it particularly touching in this book when Jack remained onboard his ship fretting away like a mother hen as Stephen undertook a potentially deadly mission.While not an unbridled thrill-ride from start to finish, The Surgeon's Mate is a very fun read in which readers will be dosed with a fair share of love and war, sorrow and happiness.
Stephen is trying to rekindle his love affair with Diana, but the lady, while favorably disposed, is in the family way as a result of her adventures among foreigners, and refuses to commit.After a brief scientific interlude in Paris, with Stephen delivering a very erudite, but poorly presented disertation on his naturalist studies, both men are returned to the sea, on a special mission to sabotage Napoleon's efforts in the Baltic by encouraging a Catalan garrison to defect.I will stop here, as the surprises and twists of fortune, the naval battles and the spy games begin in earnest, and I don't want to spoil anybody's pleasure of discovering for themeselves the fate of their favorite characters.
I am, however, a bit more accustomed to how O'Brian pulls this off without the books seeming to sink into the trap of most serial authors.
For example in this book, the setting goes something like this:Halifax (Land) => HMS Diligence (Chased from Halifax to Home) => England (Land) / Paris (Land) => HMS Ariel (Baltic Sea/Bay of Biscay) => Paris (Prison) => HMS Oedipus (English Channel).This one has a bit more setting changes than most, but O'Brian's change of settings and occasional diversions into spy-craft and/or spouse-craft allows enough shadows and depth into these novels to keep the reader from becoming sea-blind.
Lucky Jack & Dr Maturin abound Halifax & join in with the general gaiety of the time before making way for a dash for Blighty which involves a sea chase, what ensues thereafter is a spot of home troubles, some intelligence work, a new commission, a dalliance with Diane Villiers for the Doctor.....
The sea chases are indeed epic with the tension ramped up by the hour.
The chemistry between Aubrey & Maturin is wonderful & at the forefront of each novel, great characters.A clear 4 stars again & perhaps I think the trick is to leave a timely interval between each one so as to saviour each adventure.
Now we get the glorious sense of triumph on the British side as the news spreads.This first novella takes place in Halifax, and ends with Stephen and Jack leaving.
Each has chances to be heroic, Stephen covertly, and Jack not only in ship action but in his practical method of tackling an escape from the infamous Temple prison in Paris.The book ends with a marriage, with high emotions, and with enough threads dangling to make one desperate for the next.
Jack is scared of a woman coming back to England with his bastard--and instead (view spoiler)[she marries another and he seems to have gotten away with it (hide spoiler)].
Jack scrapes away at his French prison walls, and much of the book is given over to the complications of shifting the stone--(view spoiler)[and the very same moment he finally breaks through, French spies (who want to get Stephen out of the country) unlock the prison door and help them escape, so that all Jack's work is unnecessary, though appreciated.
(hide spoiler)]This is also the book where finally, FINALLY, after six books of tension and torment, (view spoiler)[Diana consents to marry Stephen.
I really enjoyed this entry in the Jack Aubrey canon.
Actually, I think it is one of my favorites, right up there with the first in the series.The characters of Jack and Stephen continue to amaze and delight me in so many ways.
I enjoy their dynamic together and how they deal with the situations they find themselves in.The best part about these stories are the sea adventures and this one did not disappoint in that category.However, as much as I commend the author on his wonderful storytelling, I still find he does not write women well.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Benedict Cumberbatch reads the seventh historical novel in Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey-Maturin series.In the early summer of 1812, Captain Jack Aubrey and Dr Stephen Maturin arrive in Canada on HMS Shannon after escaping their American captors.Produced and abridged by Lisa Osborne.
Patrick O'Brian back to his very best in this seventh Aubrey-Maturin novel.Such a good writer of English, as well-as a master story-teller, and a good expression of characters and their development through time.The GR blurb mentions only a little of the incidents and adventures, from the Atlantic to the Baltic, to inland France, and back to the home fleet where there are a couple of key developments:'Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin are ordered home by dispatch vessel to bring the news of their latest victory to the government.
Another exceptional instalment in the series... Nothing more to say!
At home in England he finds he has been cheated by a scoundrel and Stephen is busily taking on a new espionage assignment that also gets Jack a ship, the Ariel.
Jack hopes for a colonelcy, a device used to financially reward post-captains.
When his wife Sophie protests that perhaps taking a colonelcy in the army with no duties attached might be considered corrupt Jack utters the loveable, “ in others is anathema to me.
If you haven’t tried one of the Aubrey/Maturin you are really missing some delightful reading.
I recommend reading them in order.
it was very difficult to choose a star rating for this installment of the aubrey/maturin series.
on the one hand, i can't stand diana and she was all over this in every worst way.
on the other hand, once we got rid of her, there were some genuinely interesting moments ~ particularly an escape plot from a fortress which provided some solidly hilarious exchanges (reminding me why this series is fun!).
overall this feels very much like a transitional book that ties up threads that have been feeling sorta endless for the last couple of books (particularly with regard to the aforementioned and much-detested diana).

To date, five out of the seven have been Napoleonic spy stories, not Napoleonic naval stories. There is some enjoyment in the former, to be sure. But to compare O'Brian's heroes to Hornblower, Ramage, Parkinson, or even Kent/Reeman--well, I just don't understand. Aubrey loses more ships in these seven books then those other lead characters lose in each's entire series.I may read more of the dozens of O'Brian books. But only after wrapping my head around the very different mission of O'Brian's mission, and only for lack of a better choice.
So very good! Even when the characters frustrate me so much I want to kick them in their imaginary shins, it's a sign of the excellent writing. I also appreciate that even though fate (a.k.a. the hand of the author) swoops in to save the characters often, they are always actively working to solve their own problems before that happens.
As usual, through a combination of skilful sailing and blind luck, they get away.We haven’t been back to England in these books since the start of 'Desolation Island'; it feels like it must be years in the book’s universe, though the author’s way of condensing this period in time makes that difficult to judge exactly.
The Surgeon’s Mate is the 7th Aubrey/Maturin Royal Navy story set during the time of the Napoleonic Wars.
From Canada, Aubrey and Maturin make their way back to Britain where more dilemmas await each man’s careful consideration.
This story moves along the same lines as Aubrey and Maturin go on a mission in the Baltic.
Maturin is selected to do this and he wishes Aubrey to command the sloop, HMS Ariel, upon the mission.
Once again, Maturin is up to his neck at sea where Aubrey can always pull something out of the bag for him.
The subsequent action and thoughtful developments are, as always, thrilling and engrossing.
The books are so perfectly paced, with some calmer, quieter but still engrossing passages and some quite thrilling action sequences.
O'Brian's handling of language is masterly, with the dialogue being especially brilliant, but also things like the way his sentences become shorter and more staccato in the action passages, making them heart-poundingly exciting.
They are that rare thing; fine literature which are also books which I can't wait to read more of.
Could not get past the second chapter.
Another fabulous instalment in the continued adventures of Captain Jack Aubrey and his BFF Dr Stephen Maturin that I hugely enjoyed, even if it was sadly interrupted by too much work and a new downstairs neighbour who likes to scream things that make no sense at regular intervals.Having long been at sea, on landing in Nova Scotia Captain Aubrey has found himself having an ill-advised fling with a young flibbertigibbet who, as soon as he finally gets himself home again, is writing copious notes full of declarations of love and pregnancy, along with pleas for cash.
But I will offer a suggestion for anyone else who's reading the series.Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey-Maturin series of historical novels, which take place during the Napoleonic Wars, contain a vast number of unfamiliar terms, especially nautical and geographical ones.
The former is a lexicon with some illustrations; the latter contains maps, recaps of each novel in the series, more illustrations, and other background.Though I've had both for a while, having found free copies at my job, I hadn't used them much until I began reading The Surgeon's Mate.
After some adventures, they arrive in England, but Diana is with child, so Stephen takes her to Paris with him on a safe-conduct pass for her accouchement, while he gives a lecture on the natural history of birds (a brilliant scientific speech, bumblingly delivered, so that no listener could possibly suspect him of involvement with intelligence).
Jack is in similar trouble--when the expected letters from home were not arriving in Halifax, he let himself get involved with a floozy, who delights to find herself a second Lady Hamilton, or perhaps Dido, and now writes Jack that she is carrying his child, and plans to come visit him in England soon so that they can be together.
not giving up, but it's going to be hard to get there.This is the first of the 'Aubrey/Maturin' series that I've read, the series of books on which the film 'Master and Commander' was set.
I enjoyed it a great deal; it does a good job of recreating life in the first two decades of the 1800s, and it recreates sea life in the 'under sail' navy.
One learns a great deal about navigation and ships by reading this book.
Although Captain Jack Aubrey is more or less the main character of the series, this book focuses more on Stephen Maturin, Jack's close friend and the ship's surgeon whenever Jack sails.
There may be other writers as good as O'Brian, but at the moment none come to mind.
Then we experience a thrilling sea chase across much of the North Atlantic as Jack Aubrey, Stephen Maturin, and Diana Villiers are pursued by an American intelligence agent.
Unfortunately, near the end of the mission, Jack is forced to run his crippled ship onto the French shore, and he and his crew are imprisoned.
The French intelligence service is now onto Stephen and his role as an intelligence for the Admiralty; and this leads to some tense and dramatic action as Jack and Stephen try and avoid disaster (and rescue Diana Villiers too!).
And I must say; I really do love this series!
The british having bombed my capital some years before and my love for Aubrey and Maturin, gave me a bit of an emotional conundrum.
It has you by the edge of your seat and as I was reading the last couple of pages I was swearing myself all to hell for not having the next book right at hand!
If you enjoyed the movie 'Master and Commander' you should must certainly read this series - and hope to all the heavens that there will someday be a sequal.
I've been reading the Aubrey & Maturin books for some time now, and they continue to be enjoyable.
Without giving away the ending, it was nice to finally see them go there after all these years; if I was going to nitpick, I thought the book's Dumas-esque climax veered perilously close to jumping the shark, but it never did more than veer, and it at least would have been good shark-jumping.
I don't know who a review would help, exactly: you're not going to skip this if you want to read the whole series, and it wouldn't make sense to read it out of sequence; I guess, for those of you making your way through all twenty-one books, rest assured that you don't have to dread number seven.
It had been a number of years since I read one in this series, so it took me awhile to fall into the cadence of O'Brian's style, and trying to remember where the last one left off.
But once I became immersed in the story, I was caught up once again in the exploits of Captain Jack Aubrey and his friend; Doctor, naturalist and spy, Stephen Maturin.
The happenings onshore certainly advance the plot, but it is the adventures at sea where the story really takes off.
Jack and Stephen make it back to England and then head on a secret mission from Sir Joseph. This edition of the fantastic Aubrey-Maturin series is one of my favorite, so far. There is a focus on Stephen's work as a secret agent, several sea battles, and more depth into Stephen and Diana's tumultuous relationship.
This really is the perfect series -- each book is enough like the other books that you know exactly what you're getting, so you can always pick them up when you're in the right mood, and the plot progresses enough that they are also distinct from each other. I only wish the funny bits were easier to quote out of context!
