https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/567082.Biblical_Theology
Vos' method: God's revelation interprets redemption in history.
Say it plainly: redemption only has meaning in God's context.
There is no redemption apart from the plan of God. Vos was the dominant influence on Van Til and John Murray.
A few warnings, though: Vos's redemptive-historical hermeneutics, while showing us wonderful gems in Scripture, can limit the focus or scope of God's work among his whole creation.
To prove that I am not bashing Vos, I keep Vos or some other Biblical Theology text on my desk as I study the Bible.
Go read Clowney or Goldsworthy first.
One of the classic statements of Reformed biblical theology. Rarely does a theologian produce a biblical theology so in tune with his systematic theology yet clearly distinct from it. Of course it is dated now, but for some purposes it has aged gracefully.
I won't pretend I wrung this dry - I didn't wrestle with each word study or every critique of the Ritschlian school.
Despite that, Vos serves up enough eurekas to blow my mind.
And the linear approach (contra Systematic Theology's 'circles') is itself a bracing change.
His analysis of OT revelation up through the Patriarchs and Prophets is excellent.
His analysis of Jesus' public ministry is excellent.
It's all excellent.
Pound-for-pound (it's not a long book) it's the most engrossing and expanding work on theology I've read in a while.
Hopefully it's a decent orientation for the inside baseball of Reformed covenant theology.
My first crack at Vos. obscure at the beginning. Phrasing is odd, meaning is at times vague. Much clearer when discussing special revelation under Moses (largest section of book). an ancillary and very brief discussion of the Trinity under the heading "Angel of the Lord" was excellent!
Vos will stretch your method of reading scripture in a richly orthodox way. This classic work is best read slowly along with scripture. It will deepen your love for the written word of God as self-revelation.
The greatest classic on (reformed) biblical theology of the ancestor of all the reformed giants : Meredith Kline, G. K. Beale, William Dumbrell... An overview of history from the preredemptive epoch (before the Fall) to the inauguration of the Kingodm by Jesus (the Gospels). Don't deal with Paul and the letters but you can find this part in his Pauline's eschatology. Not each developpment (Beale or Kline's insights for example) is clearly in Vos, but most are already in.If you are not interested in liberal exegesis, a lot of Vos comments will bore you.
The commitment to the organic nature of revelation compels Vos to trace “the unfolding of what was germinally contained in the beginning of revelation,” each stage pointing forward to the next stage of growth, until the ultimate self-disclosure of Jesus the incarnated Son of God as the promised Messiah.
There is nothing wrong to interpret the OT in light of the NT, but if a person is committed to Vos's principle of biblical theology, an "innocent" reading of the OT is required to justify his demonstration of the continuity from the OT to the NT.
As far as depth of insight and weightiness of the subject matter, I give it 5 stars. As far as clarity of writing and comprehensibility, I give it 1 star. So I balanced the two with 3 stars.I'm glad I read this classic text on biblical theology (twice in my life)! But I have no doubt there are more useful and readable treatments of the topic elsewhere.
Wow, what an incredible book! Is it the most engaging? No. Is it easy to read? Not by a long shot; but my rating is based on the fact that this is a work that gave modern RH BT a firm foundation that was built upon by theologians like Kline, Gaffin, et al. I greatly appreciate Vos' work, and will certainly go over it again in the future.
I read this book as I was just learning what it really meant to be reformed and loved it. It brought me back to some of what I grew up learning, seeing Christ throughout the Bible. It is all about God and his purpose in redemption.
This is a great work going through the Bible showing how it holds together. The text is dense, and requires work to understand Vos' meaning in several places, but the effort is well rewarded.
Dense at points, but well worth the effort.
Reading Vos is dense work and a challenge at times.
But because English is not his first language, his writing style is difficult to get used to and at times is not as easily enjoyable to read as someone like C.
But one forgets this as one follows Vos as he expounds on the biblical text to give insight and understanding in ways modern interpreters would never be able to formulate.
Many times, he will briefly note and lay out various points and then move on, leaving the reader to further draw on the implications and connections.
Strive to understand what he’s saying.
Think about the implications he’s pointing out and alluding to.
There's gold in this book but you really have to dig for it. Vos is verbose and, because he hoped to be taken seriously by the academic critics of his day, which he wasn't, wastes far too much time explaining and refuting the positions of the critics. This book would have been better -- and shorter -- had he simply stuck to the Bible and left off dealing with the unbelieving critics and their stupid opinions.
This book was my first introduction to Biblical Theology when I entered Toronto Baptist Seminary in 1998. I learned a lot about how God promises the redemption in Christ in OT and fulfills it in the NT. It's well written and will be a rewarding read for anyone who takes the time with this not so short book. I have good memories of learning from it under the wise teaching of the late Dr. Geof Adams.
Read for a class I'm taking. We only had to read the first 40 pages, and I don't have time to read more at the moment, but it would definitely be beneficial.
Difficult to maintain a rhythm reading Vos's work.
Really enjoyed this one. Vos is helpful in so many ways.
Vos is The Godfather of Reformed Biblical Theology. This book is dense, careful, and of enormous historical importance. It was a labor to read.
Vos describes the difference between systematic theology and biblical theology as the difference between a drawing a circle and drawing a line.
Biblical theology draws a line, whereas systematic theology draws a circle.
These are the types of questions that biblical theology asks.This book really is one of those “all-time great” books that have been written about God and Scripture.
The current edition has transliterated the Greek and Hebrews words, so people who have not taken Greek or Hebrew do not need to be scared away from this book on that account.Vos walks thorough Scripture in a clear, orderly, biblical, and worshipful manner.
This is a significant book to aid in our understanding the nature of the history of redemption from creation to the final climatic fulfillment in book of Revelation. However the critiques of Historic Redemptive theology are not addressed e.g. can applications from the Old & New Testament texts be applied to today's struggles & situations? (I think so!) This can be a relatively difficult read, primarily because of technical theological jargon. But well worth the effort!
This is the classic and standard work on Biblical theology. Vos works methodically through Scripture bringing to the surface types that point to Jesus. As he does, he also exposes weaknesses of the liberal Wellhausen school. Though the Wellhausen school isn't as prominent today, it laid the foundation for much of liberal Biblical criticism. Overall, a rewarding read that should deepen one's appreciation for the magnificence of God's Word.
It is also true that we do not have an in-depth and comprehensive knowledge of God. All our knowledge, even with regard to created things, is in part. This is even truer of God. We only know Him insofar as He reveals Himself, that is, has turned His being outwardly for us. God alone possesses ideal knowledge of Himself and of the whole world, since He pervades everything with His omniscience. --Geerhardus Vos.
This is a seminal work in the discipline of biblical theology. I think at times Voss's redemptive historical methodology leads him to look behind the text to attempt to access the events of redemptive history apart from the text, so there are points where I'm skeptical of his conclusions. But on the whole this book introduces the topic of biblical theology in a deep and biblically faithful way.
An absolutely miserable read of controversies that were out of date when the book was written, and what was still relevant was muted by the author's arrogance of his knowledge of Hebrew and the value of his own opinion. I only recommend this book if you are looking for a cure for insomnia.
A must read.
I've got to re-read this. An old pastor said, if you want to understand scripture, this is the book to help.
A hard but rewarding read
Wonderful foundational reading. His older, denser style is not something to just breeze through but it worth the work.
Extra in its deepness
