https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/545587.The_Fields_of_Home
Tom Gould (the Grandfather) was a Civil War Vet - Company I, 16th Maine; he actually did work the farm described in the book; his father, Jacob, actually did clear the farm from the wilderness; Tom actually was born when his father was 72, etc., etc.
A boulder in nearby Hillside Cemetery in Lisbon memorializes Jacob, Tom and the farm which is the setting for this book.
One might also explore the writings of another of Tom's grandsons (and Ralph Moody's first cousin), Maine author, John Gould."
These books are rich in many beautiful lessons. My husband and I are enjoying this series together.
I think everyone should read all of the Little Britches series, but my favorites were Little Britches and Mary Emma and Company so I'm only giving the other books a four rating even though I really enjoyed all of them. They give a glimpse into life that makes us realize how important hard work and cheerfulness and determination really are and how much they can impact our success in life.
;) Even with all the wonderful examples of work and skill in these books, the repetition of those phrases by Grandpa and Uncle has ruined the reading aloud of any more books in this series.
Do your self a favor, from the very start don't read aloud those phrases, not even in your mind.
Ralph is 15 in this book and his skill and competence at work, invention and self sufficiency amazes me.
Ralph's ability to stay with that tarnal fool grandpa of his amazes me, not many would have stuck it out.
My favorite Ralph Moody book so far. His memoirs of growing up in 1910's America show how much life has changed in 100 years. I doubt teens today could do half of what they did back then.
I loved this book of the Ralph Moody series. :D Grandfather was frustrating at times, but everything turned out okay... and he was kinda funny when he got mad. ;)Ralph learned a lot in this book and Uncle Levi helped out quite a bit! The parts with him, Ralph, and Annie were funny. XDI was glad that Millie (view spoiler)[came back home... it didn't seem normal without her! (hide spoiler)]I definitely recommend this series for families to read out loud together!4 stars! :)
Aside from just the humor and colloquial fun of the book, there are also a lot of great lessons being learned on all sides--deeper developments in the characters that are sometimes not even really addressed but are still evident and important.I would say that this (and probably the rest of the series) is a must-read for any boy, and when I (Lord-willing!) have boys of my own one day, I fully plan on reading these aloud to them.
It shows how a teen-age boy and his ornery grandfather who could get along with no one managed to live and work together in spite of their differences in age and outlook.
Thjeir relationship was tested often as the grandfather kep calling Ralph a "tarnal fool" when he wanted to use more modern technology on their farm, when he wanted to use eggs in cooking , etc.
I know few 15-year-old boys today who would take the verbal abuse as well as Ralph did, and he was often tempted to run away and go back west where his grew up.
I am stuck trying to think of something to say that won't, in some way, spoil it a little bit....therefore, I'll recommend Ralph Moody's autobiographic series of books be first read in its queue up to Fields of Home to reap the most pleasure.
Oh, read it!
It is my favorite so far.
This is the 2nd x read of The Fields of Home for my son and I.
~~ Now I am editing - just to say that Moody's next book, "Shaking the Nickel Bush", is not to be missed!
A gem...and if you are fortunate, you will listen to it by CD with companionship.
Wonderful book in this series which I highly recommend. Especially good for parents raising a boy to read this aloud. There are lots of opportunities to pull "life lessons" from these books. I cruised through this one because it was so good and because I have a bad cold and I couldn't do much else.In this installment Ralph goes to Maine to live with his grandpa and help him farm. His grandpa is difficult to live with (an understatement!), but they find a way to get along by the end. I got a little teary here and there.
I loved this installment in the Ralph Moody biographical series. To my mind, this is the best one, after the first, Little Britches. I love the characters of his grandfather, Millie and Uncle Levi. This would be a fun one to read aloud to be able to put all the life into the words of Grandfather. He's a hoot. Lots of good lessons to be learned from this book.
This one did not disappoint! Wholesome and entertaining. Our favorite line from the book: "Gory sakes alive! That oatmeal's saltier than Lot's wife!"
Second reading Sep 2016This book is definitely darker and harder and more mature than the first four, but it is A really nice maturing of Ralph.First reading Oct 2014
This is seriously one of my most favorites book series ever!
Ralph Moody's Little Britches series are my favorite family read alouds.
Books #1 and #2 are the best, but The fields of Home is my 3rd favorite.
After spending several years ranching in Colorado, his family moves back to Boston after his father dies.
Living in a city is quite different from ranching and things don't go very well.
But by the end of the book, this strained relationship transformed to love and mutual appreciation.When reading it aloud, I do have to soften some of the language, but it is well worth it.
Sometimes hard for 10, 8 and 6yo boys to keep pace with as a read aloud but the story is so good and character building!! Will likely have them read again independently as 11-12yo. We have read all the Little Britches aloud and while this one moved slower, the lessons of hard work, ingenuity, compromise, and self-control are worth the commitment.
This is a great book about adapting to a cranky grandfather and setting reasonable boundaries. I liked the americana setting and old-fashioned way of life. It was nice to see grandfather change over time. Older people can and do change when motivated. We must never give up hope. This book is a powerful example of what a grandchild can do for a grandfather and essentially the power of family.
3* Ralph goes to his grandfather's farm in Maine. His grandfather is a cantankerous old soul and very hard to get along with. Parts of the story were tough reading, just as they were tough to live through. The book ends on a better note, with a successful yield from the fields which they both worked so hard on.
Leslie, Central patron, June 2017, 5 stars:Great stories about living on a Maine farm in the early 1920s.
My least favorite of the series so far. Grandfather was so harsh - it got hard to read after awhile. The earlier books are more pleasant.
it was great
SPOILER: It was pretty sweet seeing the way his Grandfather changed and how their relationship grew. /SPOILER END
I was so mad at grandfather for most of this book, but Ralph managed to survive him. It was fun to have some romance come into the Little Britches books and alls well that ends well.
i liked it..?
Loved the work ethic lessons that Ralph learned in this one
Don't cal'late your granpa's getting old enough to be forgetful, do you?
sides of her face were grizzled like an old man's beard" p 23.
At last Levi asks agencies that hire out cooks, finds her right off, drops hints so Granpa follows the trail himself.
Like Maid Marian and Robin Hood, "Annie knew so much more about the woods, the flowers, the birds, and the wild animals ..
Like yalla colt, Granpa Tom is eventually soothed.
When Granpa's bees swarm, Ralph and Millie run after them in a rush.
This book is much different from my memories (rather faint indeed) of having read it 45 years ago. Ralph is living with his maternal grandfather in Maine, and seems to have a really difficult time catering to the multiple neuroses of the old man, and having to subsist mainly on salt pork, potatoes and biscuits. He has always had a severe weight problem, and these years of malnourishment undoubtedly led to the life-endangering case of childhood diabetes described early in the following book. Nevertheless, his adventures are fascinating, the characters described are unforgettable, and Ralph's ingenuity is boundless.
In all the other books, Ralph or the family has to work, like, 16 hours a day just to make ends meet.
Maybe I'm more comfortable in the known and wouldn't want to travel so far, and Ralph certainly isn't afraid of working hard, but still.Writer thoughts: So, how does a writer include such a contrary character and still get readers to like him by the end?1, RM wrote that the uncle understood and liked the grandfather.
As with the others, this was an enjoyable read-aloud.
I found this book a bit harder to read because I am not familiar with farm terms nor farming.
I felt I was reading words but without a true understanding.
However, my husband understood perfectly coming from a farming extended family.
It still was a wonderful story of a past era of US life, and my husband enjoyed being reminded of his farmer grandfather who was much like Thomas.
At times I was frustrated and ready to put it down—reading it aloud you are intensely aware of the amount of yelling and negativity coming from the grandfather.
Grandfather's an evil, abusive, horrible man.
Every time he opened his mouth to berate someone, I cringed.
Every time he begrudged Ralph or Millie the very food they ate, I got mad.
This book was also much more overtly religious than the others, with the unlikely proselytizer being the evil grandfather.
I can't imagine that such a deeply misanthropic git as the grandfather would be welcomed by St. Peter, based on what I know of religion.
Though I did, in fact, suffer through every word of this book.The narrator, in addition to the over-enunciation I've almost grown used to, mispronounces several words throughout.
