https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/372809.The_American_Way_of_Death_Revisited
If you're ever going to die, you should read this book. Also good for people who like watching a diminutive englishwoman who was a former communist bitch-slap the funeral industry over the course of 30 years.
She thinks the solutions all require help from politicians and government yet is constantly documenting how the regulated take control of the regulators.
On page 271 she states, Funeral planning and memorial societies generated public pressure for government action (The Funeral Rule) "But once members were convinced that consumers had what they needed, social activism waned." Well, yah!
Why be a smart consumer if you know the government will protect you from bad decisions.I learned about funeral societies and the local FASMA group, but I didn't need to read 300 pages of socialist blather to learn this.
Private organizations like this are the real solution, not politicians who I trust even less than lawyers and morticians.
But Mitford’s true genius is to go beyond depicting mere schlubishness, to further expose the desperate clutching of the trade, and she does that by quoting more industry sources that further clarify the operative hypocrisy, inserting this priceless footnote: *Mortuary Management stated editorially that it is the funeral director’s traditional prerogative to “get first whack at the family.” Concept: The Journal of Creative Ideas for Cemeteries was quick to take issue with this statement, calling it a “shocking blunder” and adding, “Regardless of the truth in the statement, isn’t it improper to talk that way?” (75)Buster Keaton used to say about humor something like this: It’s funny to see a guy get on a horse and then fall off.
The investigative journalism is top-notch and essential about an industry few of us really know about (until we have to make time-sensitive and stressful decisions). I'm not enthralled with the writing style, which for me is old-fashioned and circuitous. The blurbs describe it as hilarious and side-splitting. Um... no. It's witty and mildly amusing at best. Nevertheless, everyone should read it to understand precisely how badly you're going to get screwed by the undertaker someday.
Though the subject matter is dry and depressing, I was fascinated with this exposé of the funeral industry. Not a "page turner" by any means, but I was interested from beginning to end.
I cant give a personal opinion on this book without first addressing its author..after all she was one of the (in)famous Mitford sisters.Over the years I've read extensively and researched a good bit myself about the family and the girls, and quite frankly never liked all the anger and rage and frustration that seemed to ooze of Jessica Mitford and ultimately led to her doing her utmost best to paint the darkest of portraits about her parents and siblings...seriously this one would have given Freud himself material for a couple of books!I've long heard of this book and its effects on the way America dealt/deals with the funeral industry, but it wasn't until recently reading Caitlin Doughty's books that i figured i might as well give this one a try and see what the fuss is/was all about.
I've read this before, but reading it a second time you get to really savor just how funny Mitford is reporting on this topic.
A very important book in several regards.1) It made me confront my own inevitable mortality like few others.2) It shows how seemingly innocuous, mutually beneficial, capitalistic transactions (like arranging a funeral) can be and are corrupted by hard-selling, manipulation of guilt and covetousness, grief, greed, and monopolies.
It also shows how good free-market, macro-economic principles are twisted to destructive purposes in micro-economic situations.3) It serves an important lesson: do-goodism seems most effective by exposing injustice and not by government lobbying.
Despite their good will, hard work, persistence, and likability (at least from this book), little by way of government regulation has been effective.
It's pretty shocking just how funny this book is.
And it's not even written in a jokey "Mary Roach" kind of way.
The funniest passages are lifted right from mortician's professional literature.
I already knew some of the abuses and distortions put out by American morticians but this book really laid it all out (no pun intended).
Kudos to Jessica Mitford for exposing many of the lies in a way that made you chuckle while simultaneously seething.I was dismayed to know how little has changed (except for the worse) since she first wrote this almost 50 years ago.
I ended up reading this book because it's a book I'd hear of about the funeral business and my grandfather recently died.
Difficult situation?
Mitford doesn't even have to say much, the undertakers' own words are adept at tripping them up, although she's very good with her words.
Fine piece of mud-racking, and it's not surprising it got the attention it did on its first release.I liked the chapter on funerals in England too - no idea if the rural funerals she describes are still a thing, however, being one of those bloody city dwellers, but reading about how to die in Clapham in the 1960s was interesting.
Eh? After reading The American Way of Death some time ago, I found this book a bit redundant. Dated. As I wend my own way closer to the grim reaper and my loved ones are dropping over like flies, my dealings with undertakers and graveyards are becoming increasingly commonplace. Cremation seems to be the primary choice these days. Certainly is practical.
I would have loved to have read what she thought about the funeral industry today!While Mitford is careful to point out that there are honest and caring funeral professionals, she takes aim at the ones who are in it strictly for the money.
Anywhere.) Having a big funeral at the mortuary, with lots of flowers, was mostly an American thing.
Mitford managed to get hold of lots of professional magazine, went to funeral profession conferences, and talked with many both in the industry and close to it.

I can't believe I liked this book. I actually read it all. Originally published in 1963 and then an updated version in 1998, it exposes the funeral industry. I was educated and enlightened about the practices of that institution and will never look at funerals the same way. Like all industries, they can rip off the public but pretend not to be doing so. Taking advantage of people in times of bereavement is not okay with me! I found the topic fascinating but I realize that I might be an oddity in that interest!
Even considering the age of the original and revisted versions, Mitford's work holds value in that the funeral industry has likely changed little since and that corporations with enough money invested in pr. Add to that the obvious capitalization on one's grief in what appears to be one of the best scenarios for high pressure sales.
People are often astonished to learn that in no state is embalming required by law except in certain special circumstances, such as when the body is to be shipped by common carrier.The funeral men foster these misconceptions, sometimes by coolly misstating the law to the funeral buyer and sometimes by inferentially investing with the authority of law certain trade practices which they find it convenient or profitable to follow.
This is a cynical age, so this book is perhaps most useful for providing a tremendous breadth and depth of reasons to confirm our cynicism with regard to the industry that is its focal point.
Also, as an American who has simply grown up with the assumption that our funeral practices represent some sort of developed-world norm, I was surprised to learn otherwise.
Apart from this, surprises are relatively few, so--read this to learn more about your rights, and otherwise to confirm your suspicions that there is nothing immune to greed, corruption, and abuse in a world run by money.
It is horribly obvious that never in her life did she work with an honest funeral director and all of her opinions are based on the stories of people she knows who hit the crappy mortician jackpot.
While I am not denying that some funeral directors are awfully shady, there are a lot of honest ones who don't take advantage of those in grief and don't push for them to buy a lot of pointless crap that isn't needed, just to make another dollar.
But it was nice to see an explanation of what a lot of people believe about the death are industry, no matter how wrong it is.
Great expose about the funeral industry and it's scams.
I highly recommend this book to everyone as most people don't realize what goes on behind the scenes with this stuff.
I felt disgusted with much of the behavior of those in the funeral industry presented in this book.
I personally want nothing to do with the funeral industry anymore after reading this book and much prefer to do everything on my own at this point.
I've made my wishes known and my immediate loved ones are okay with forgoing the funeral industry as well.


It's really interesting to me how the American version of death is such an elaborate event. Expensive decisions are asked to be made at the most vulnerable time of a person's life, and in some cases, for completely unnecessary items. I think it's important for anyone to be educated about the funeral industry, as it will directly impact your life at some point in time. Good read.
I work in my family-owned monument business, so I've always enjoyed reading about the 'death industry.' And I've always enjoyed not having to sell coffins.
You gotta love some muckraking. Well, I do. And gory details about mortuaries.
Lots of interesting information. I'm gonna have to do some research for my parents.
(Here are 3 more on the topic: Caitlin Doughty 1 & 2 and Bess Lovejoy.) Mitford gives a comprehensive look at the funeral industry in America up to the last update of her book in 1997.
This process is known in the trade  as embalming and restorative art, and is so universally employed in the United States and  Canada that for years the funeral director did it routinely, without consulting corpse or kin.
(Many funeral homes even include in their pricing grief counseling!) The frauds range from offering 'package deals' with no options for opting out, non-disclosed fees prior to invoicing, refusal to provide itemized statements for services, or inflation on pre-need arrangements (example: plots purchased well before death).
Yes, this book may seem like an odd choice, but I have a reason!
But in the interim I’m doing preliminary work on my next novel and there is a character who is a funeral director and I have to do research on that one.Enter Jessica Mitford!
The book was first published in the 60s and became a bestseller.
So how does a book about embalming, cemetery practices, cremation and so forth become a best seller?
First, top notch reporting and high quality writing.
This is a schooling in how to write top-notch nonfiction.
Discussing how messed up the funeral industry is would usually be 5 stars for me, but the figures in this book are now outdated and it’s just an exhausting read.
The main takeaway is that funeral homes try to sell you everything possible, use suggestive and deceptive practices, mark prices up extremely, and try to make all cheaper products look ugly as hell and tell you your family deserves better.
Also, think you paid the funeral home to scatter ashes—well they are probably just dumped them outside or in a warehouse for cheaper.
This is endlessly educational and hilarious, but wordy and a bit dry at times.
This is why my summer reading went down in May/June/July.
As interested as I am in the topic, I just couldn't get through this book for some reason.That said, I would still recommend it.
Read a chapter a week or something.
As an Order of the Good Death member, here's a plug -- go watch Ask a Mortician on youtube if you're interested in death activism and the funeral industry.
A lot of the stuff that she talks about is covered in this book.
Read it, though.
Outstanding scholarship and eruditionIt goes without saying that most, if not all, businesses practices in the US are essentially corrupt.
Of particular note in this regard are those which deal with the public at their most vulnerable moments, such as the death of a loved one.
The funeral industry has been able over the past several decades to transform a basic human ritual experience into a vast moneymaking enterprise, seeking opportunities for profit in all aspects of their "services".
No one could have done a better job of researching the extent and breadth of this corrupt enterprise than Jessica Mitford.
