https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201054.Dragon_s_Blood
She apparently does not know or understand the audience she is aiming for, and, therefore, entirely misses her target.
It was bleak and boring from beginning to end, and I felt absolutely no sympathy for any of the clichéd characters.
It felt like a cheap rip off of every fantasy novel since the birth of that genre (they even greet each other with a version of the star trek Vulcan salute!
I know there are more books in this series, and I’ve heard they “get better.” But no one could pay me enough money to even pick one up.
Still love it to this day.-------I had to write a bit more in defense of this book after reading some of the harsher critiques written by others.
First of all, this was a children's book and yes, perhaps it it is not politically correct for today where feminism is concerned, it does create a world that did not exist before its inception.
So though it may not be the most sophisticated writing that ever graced the page, it is a beloved book that graces a place of honor on my bookshelf and always will.
The world sounds beautiful, but the characters are decidedly not.
I usually don't care much what people in non-existent worlds do but the more I think about it, the more annoyed I get.Main character- "Hi girl that I wasn't particularly close to.
Your dad gave you to me, and one day I'll have enough money that you'll gladly accept me as your master." *facepalm* She seems like the only decent character in the book, I hope she develops her medical skills and sells his kidneys on the black market while he sleeps.
By the end of the book I've learned almost nothing about the world the characters inhabit.Since I initially skipped reading the excerpt at the beginning, let's look at what we learn from the book alone:1.
2. The planet the people inhabit has dragons, which almost became extinct until the people stepped in and started to breed them to fight each other in pits.3.
I only finished the book because I was hoping by the end I would learn more about the planet than the meager amount of information the author doled out.
Don't get me wrong, I thought the worldbuilding was good, but the bleakness and the Serious Issues (most of the population are slaves and women are treated as objects) seemed at odds with the simplistic narration.The story is predictable, but it's kind of hilarious how useless the hero, Jakkin, is.
really not that impressive a feat...) and then sets about training it out in the desert, but doesn't give any thought to how he's going to transport it to the fighting pits in the city.
Of course it's a woman, Akki, who thinks about all these details, plus a million other things (including saving Jakkin's stupid life at least twice).
I should have a review of that one to post shortly.As far as YA dragon fantasy stories go, this is about par for the course.
It’s a quick read and fairly enjoyable, but I don’t know if I will bother to keep reading in the series.EDIT: A few days after posting this review it occurred to me that there is another merit to this book and potentially to the series.
It might appeal to pokémon fans, since the main story is about raising a pet dragon to fight battles.
Another reread of a book I remembered enjoying in my youth.
Fortunately this one is almost better than I remembered :) It's definitely youth-targeted but the characters and setting are rich and the story is well-written.
It wraps up a little too quickly at the end, but hey, there's a sequel!The setting is a desert planet where dragons are a native life form, and humans breed, raise, train, and have them fight for entertainment.
Yolen's frequent cultural references to the bags (where phrases and exclamations make a bag reference) bring home how central this aspect of the culture is and make the setting more believable.
I love dragon stories but this series disturbed me enough to sell them back (Which is something I never do)It was a very difficult read for me and I'm college age.
I understand trying to teach children to be empathetic to non-human species as well as human but I wouldn't want to teach them with this book.~Spoilers warning:~The main characters start out by fighting these dragons, sometimes to the death.
Then in later books the two heroes are "reborn" through a dying dragon which causes them to be permanently changed and disgusted with eating meat because they can now sense life like never before.
~End Spoilers warning~

One of the better dragon books I've read. It was slow, but a steady pace that made it a relaxing read until the climax when I couldn't put it down. Recommended for ages 12-16, but an enjoyable read for anyone who likes dragons.
Entertainment, food, clothing, etc, all come from dragons.
The book follows the story of a young bondsman, Jakkin, as he attempts to steal a hatchling dragon, raise it as his own, and train it to fight in the dragon pits.
Humans still travel the stars & this planet is a stop for entertainment & gambling.
I've really loved some of Yolen's other stories, but there were a lot of irregularities in this that made me think that world-building is not her strong suit.
I'm torn on whether to let my girls read this because of the traditional male-centric way the story is told.
I read this whole series in around 2004, and liked them a lot. I don't remember a whole lot from them, but I have some fuzzy images. Not sure why I've never remembered to add them.**Oh, now I see that I did add the boxed set, just didn't add them individually.
It was unnerving in the beginning but when Jakkin fought the draks and go the egg thing went up a notch. It was cool to see how people got away with things when they were slaves. The only way to get out of slavery was to get money from dragon battles. You’d have to steal a dragon.
The book explores Jakkin's journey into manhood as well as a friendship with a dragon hatchling.
Despite being an adult, I enjoyed reading this book.
However, I found myself wishing the author had done more with the themes and issues that arose during my reading, such as slavery (the idea of a master and a slave), the treatment of the dragons (both in the pits, the training, and the horrible culling), and finally the achievement of a dream (was it really everything you wanted?).
Most of my disappointments about Dragon's Blood, though, relate to the way Yolen translated some of the themes for a young person's mindset.
This series is a sort of precursor to the many YA dystopian novels of today. It has the irritating kid who gets dragged into a revolutionary conspiracy, a society that revolves around blood sports, a surprisingly dark world in which slavery and prostitution are normal parts of life, and strange pseudo-mystical plot twists that make you question whether the author had a plan or just made it up as she went along. It probably would have been a bestseller if it was written today.
My son and I actually found this book on tape at a truck stop while on a road trip. It was kind of hard to get into but it kept me awake and if you like Dragons, you'll love the world of the Pit Dragon Chronicles.
There are only two named female characters in the entire book-- obvs they don't speak to each other or interact, but you have a formerly-beautiful cook who used to be a sex worker, and a currently-beautiful teenager who was raised in a brothel.It's pretty obvious that the women in this world aren't really considered people.
The male bondsmen (a nice way of saying "slave") don't interact with women, none of the work is done by women, women are very much "other" in every way.Kind of ruined what might have otherwise been a great book about dragons.
Great job, Yolen.
As a woman, you should have thought that through better.Even the dragon-fighting, the thing around which the novel revolves, doesn't make much sense.
In a venue where the timbre of a dragon's roar is considered by bettors to be a reliable measure of its fighting prowess:"I've been trying to breed a mute.
if the bettors have no clues for their betting, won't they bet less?
And won't you make less money off your dragon?
And besides, once your mute dragon has fought a few rounds, won't people know her by reputation anyway?
Clearly influenced by Anne McCaffrey’s Dragonriders of Pern, Dragon’s Blood is a science-fiction/fantasy that didn’t turn out to be anything I was expecting when I picked it up.
I’m not saying that it’s a bad thing—it just caught me off guard.I’m not a huge fan of science fiction, especially this kind, where strange terms and words are introduced and everything is described in detail—but sometimes not until midway through the book, where it seems strange.
I simply don’t really like science fiction.I can’t even say I dislike Dragon’s Blood for being such an obvious tribute/imitation of McCaffrey.
Jakkin is a bond-servant, indentured to his master until he can fill the bond-bag that hangs around his waist, but Jakkin has a plan: steal a hatchling, teach it to fight, and use the profits to become a master in his own right.
Of course, though he knows a little bit about dragons, he doesn't really know anything about teaching them to fight .
I was expecting it to be a children's book, but it makes no bones about some of the rougher aspects of Jakkin's world (prostitution, drug use) and that places it more squarely in the YA arena.
Overall, 3 stars.
There were so many double 'k's in this book, I believe Yolen was given an excess of them and the only way she knew to get rid of all these 'k's in her life was to write this book.
I'm going to keep this short.
In the last fourth of the book, the double 'k's are explained well, but I feel it was pertinent world-building information and should have been introduced sooner.
The story itself was fun to read, though the writing was somewhat juvenile.
However, considering some of the other books Yolen has written, it's not such a surprise.
My sixth novel about dragons, apparently a popular fantasy subject, was enjoyable and fun.
Unlike a typical fantasy, Dragon's Blood embraced science fiction and even some politics more to my taste.
This novel is set in a human colonized world 300 years in the future, where the indigent creatures are dragons.
Once a prison colony, the populace of Austere IV struggles economical, with many living in indentured servitude, but what does bring coin to the planet, are the dragon pits, where dragons are pitted against each other in the gladatorial arenas.
This book was fun, something of a typical 'boy and his dragon' tale, yet it had its refreshing imagery and it a well-written and brisk read.***
I picked this book up because Brandon Sanderson said that this was one of the books that caused him to want to be an author.
It felt like a lot of the fantasy books that I read as a teenager.
The main character did stupid things, like all teenagers.
These vices were part of the civilization that our main character lived in.
I felt like while they were references a fair amount they didn't detract from the story.
Also, the author showed how people's lives became messed up when they dabbled in their vices.
I remember reading this when I was younger and remembered some vivid details that really stuck with me . . . even though the title didn't. :) I reread this since my 9 year old was interested in reading it. I was glad to finally find it and relished reading it again. I'll have my daughter wait a while before reading it because of the baggaries and one line that, though not overly-detailed, would concern my young one.Well worth a read. One of my favorite dragon books still.
I mostly enjoyed this, though the "thee"s and "thou"s directed at dragons annoyed me. It didn't make even handwavium sense.Also, the ending was nauseatingly pro-eugenics and pro-indentured servitude. ("None of that false compassion--picking a runt or one with an injured wing. You went right to the best." And nonsense about some people not being man enough to get out of their servitude?? Yuck, yuck, yuck.)
I think this book falls into junior, although i have some questions about pit fighting being a great topic for kids.I thought it was fine, perhaps a little derivative of McCaffrey's books, but with its own twists. Pit fighting aside, i think the rest of the world was set up to be a little more complex; not just the bad overlords v. the perfect scrappy underlings, but compassionate overlords with flawed underlings... I appreciated that.
I really enjoyed this story and this world. So a lot of people say there is misogyny or sexism in this book but the characters do challenge it. And honestly the world that they live in is harsh and also...Non-existent. so please stop projecting today's problems on a book that was written in the 90's and is a middle grade sci-fi/fantasy. It's fine.
This was one of those kindle books that come with a free audible. The narration was great with each voice distinct amazing for a woman. And this is a Dragon tale off the beaten path. A former penal colony where dragons were natural to the planet.Also a coming of age too. A fast read, if you have KU grove on over to Amazon.
I picked this up, read half of it, sat it down, and promptly forgot about it. Oooooops!It wasn't bad but it didn't blow me away either? I'm curious to see if my other Jane Yolen books are written similarly. I'm not sure if I will continue the series yet or not but I wouldn't mind to see where it goes!
This was one of the last books I read in middle school (I was working through the library alphabetically :D) and it took me by surprise. Such a dark story with so many things I was unprepared to deal with at the time. I freakin' loved it. Especially after reading, what amounts to the entirety of my middle schools fiction section. I highly recommend this series.
