https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/276289.The_Magic_Mirror_of_M_C_Escher
I've owned this book for a long time, but had bought it originally only for the pictures of the artwork.
Finally I decided to read it.
It's primarily an analysis of Escher's work, and it's a very thorough one.The author actually knew Escher, so some of the things he says about what Escher was trying to do in various works are ideas he actually discussed with Escher.
I found some of the analyses of individual works a bit tedious, but they did help me see things I hadn't noticed before, so it felt worth wading through them.
Anyone who's a fan of Escher's art should definitely read this.
Qui abbiamo più testo, la "teoria" dietro l'immagine, o, meglio, la spiegazione, lo studio... comunque interessante e capace di nutrire la vista. :)
To my knowledge this is the definitive Escher book. Detailed illustrations of his drawings, with lengthy explanation of the art and mathematics behind them. Good for the casual read or for anyone interested in that style of art (wherever Escher fits, I just assume there must be some kind of style). Worth checking out if you like his art.
I love his work. Each drawing is meticulous and a mental challenge of perspective and metaphor. The explanations help to explain what he did and why.
This is one of the reasons that I dislike trying to create exact hierarchies of "important artists", at least unless it is with an acknowledgement that this is a highly flawed pursuit.
Although a well-trained draftsman, and a highly skilled woodcutter and printmaker, Escher deliberately sought to make his themes, puzzles, toys, or wonders paramount, so that his figures and other features, in playing a subservient role to his underlying idea, could often be a bit stiff or awkward.
In other works though, his designs have a great deal of beauty.The book gives a lot of very helpful background to the development of his ideas, with copious illustrations of his studies and his planning diagrams.
The Magic Mirror is a fascinating narrative of Escher’s life and work, written by a mathematician who criticized his work at first, but became an admirer and friend of Escher after that. Bruno Ernst tells us about Escher’s youth, his failed schooling, the time he spent in Italy, Switzerland and back in the Netherlands, his work in chronological order and the math behind his masterpieces.
excellent author and artist
fabulous
Great drawings
Not sure it's comprehensive but included the best known work of this amazing artist.
In fact, the author even had Escher as a second author, so the artist added his own commentaries to the book!This book first follows the course of Escher's life and location and how that related to his art.
The art is then examined in several different ways - chronologically, thematically, and by technique/style.
I really like that the book breaks down the "how" of Escher - it shows his thought processes (often written by Escher himself!), the sketches and drafts, the mistakes in early versions, even the physical models that Escher made.
It also breaks down the math/physics of Escher - the author includes illustrations with easy-to-read guides that explain optics, geometry, topology, limits to infinity, etc.
I don't remember how this ended up on my SOUB but it's mind-blowing -- if you're a mathematician. I'm not so it's mostly just beyond my reach -- and my level of interest. It could have been better organized, too. More often than not, the detailed explanation of a work was on a different page than the work itself, requiring so much page-turning I usually gave up before the explanation sunk in. But this is obviously an important book to the serious Escher fan, so I guess I'll keep it until I can hand it off to one.
No better book on M.C. Escher's life, art, and story.
Escher's work was categorized by spatial structure (landscapes, multiple worlds interpenetrating, and abstract mathematical solids), flat surface structure (tessellations/metamorphoses, cycles (e.g. Reptiles, in which tessellations become 2D), and approaches to infinity), and representations between space and flat (impossible figures like Waterfall and Belvedere, intertwined figures like the dragon and perspective images like Depth).
In addition to sharing a brief but sufficient biography of Escher, the author was able to share sketches in progress before the final work and explanations of how Escher visualized certain surfaces to imagine curves where one would physically see straight lines.
According to the author and Escher, Escher was more of a visual mathematician than a theoretical one.
It's a great overview of Escher's work. I enjoyed the in-depth look at his pieces and the process he used to come up with them. The problem for me is the author is a mathematician. He would go into complex explanations of angles, planes, points A, B, A2, B2, etc. I could feel my brain start to glaze over, just like I did back all those years ago in geometry class. Perhaps an understanding of geometry is necessary to fully appreciate Escher's work. But since Escher himself didn't really understand the geometry behind his prints, maybe not.
Since I was reading EGB - I thought I'd pickup a book at the MIT loading dock sale on Escher - I didn't realize that he started doing geometric work late in life and didn't have any recognition until he was in his 50s. Thats encouraging. Well written overview of his work and approaches. I'm particularly interested in the transformation of shapes through a grid space and how one might approach a dynamic computational model of his process of creation.
¿Quien dijo que para entender entender una lengua hay que conocer un idioma?, Escher no conocí las matemáticas y aun menos las entendía pero la expresión tan hermosa y amplia de sus obras denotan a un gran matemático que manipula de forma asombrosa las realidades, las realidades por que con Escher existen bastantes realidades para poder dudar de la existencia de una sola.
A marvelous journey through the inner world of this brilliant artist. I'm going to have to read it a good many more times before even starting to comprehend some of the math behind Escher's ideas, but even now, I'm amazed.
Soy diseñador gráfico, ilustrador y otras cosas... y admiro profundamente a Escher, uno de los artistas más importantes e impresionantes del siglo XX. Su influencia es gigantesca y este libro, sólo por estar dedicado a su vida y obra, merece estar en la biblioteca de todo el mundo.
Fascinating, though I quietly skipped all the math, I'd gladly read this over and over again. Escher is truly a man out of our world, a pan-dimensional being, and this book tells the tale of how his mysterious mind works.
Bonita guía ilustrada sobre la obra de escher. Con una breve historia biográfica y de cada obra no muy extensa ni profunda. Esta bien para empezar
Its great when you discover a new master!
It´s great when you discover a new master!
Finally decided to give up on this one just can't read it - I 'm sure the fault is mine and not the authors !
Truly remarkable!!! Very inspiring indeed.
His mathematical precision and eye for fun are always an amazing site for the eyes.
