https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1251.Leadership_Is_an_Art
This book came to me highly recommended and I really wanted to like it. A leadership book based on treating people like people? Sounds good.Unfortunately, I found the meandering writing style frustrating and barely made it half way through. I would have preferred a clearer structure and more cleanly delineated concepts. Each chapter bled into another, circling around the same points. Really, it all does boil down to "be nice to other people" but really, who needs a book to tell you that?
As Max best puts it: "This book is about the art of leadership: liberating people to do what is required of them in the most effective and humane way possible.
Since it deals more with ideas and beliefs and relationships, it has to do with the "why" of institutional and corporate life rather than the "how"..Those results, however, are only a way to measure our resourcefulness at a point in time, mile markets on a long road.
Communication clarifies the vision of participative ownership as a way of building relationships within and without the corporation."4- "Good communication liberates us to do our jobs better.
A concise and well-supported treatise of leading in ways that empower employees (broad profit sharing to encourage a sense of ownership) and leading with humility, as a first-servant in the corporation. Much may seem like adages here, but there is much wisdom distilled from years in leadership at Zeeland, Michigan's Herman Miller.
Dozens upon dozens of quotable insights in the first 2/3 of this book. A short, insightful and enjoyable read for anyone in a leadership capacity.
At times, the leadership related terminology used was not familiar (e.g roving leaders, giants) and seemed to be of the author's own making.
p. 120He also speaks of the three key elements in the "art of working together" as how to: deal with change, deal with conflict, reach our full potential.Beyond these isolated tidbits (which are generally not elaborated on in the writing), I see little value in the book for those reading in the leadership literature.
I often re-read paragraphs feeling that it was Confucius-like!
One of his main ideas is that leaders owe a great deal to the companies they lead: they need to provide a statement of values, space for employees to grow, a vision for present and future, momentum (“a debt to the future”), and effectiveness, among other things.De Pree defines effectiveness as “doing the right thing” as opposed to just doing the thing right.
He also sets a high premium on Roving Leadership (the ability of others to lead temporarily when their unique talents call for it), and participative management (encouraging others to have a say, fostering a culture of respect for diversity of talents, the importance of covenants – an understanding that work has value and meaning – as opposed to impersonal contracts).
I'm not really a huge fan of leadership books, I'm more of a history/theology nerd, but I know reading books like this can be helpful from time to time.
This book is brief, to the point and filled with lots of great insights.
DePree was the CEO of a large company and has a lot of wisdom to share.
Further, he is a Christian which is either a bonus for you or maybe a negative, depending what you think of Christianity.
This is not a "Christian" book though as the ideas can apply in any leadership capacity, from church to business.
I think Max has some great concepts, but they get lost in the confusing writing style. I think taken together, his ideas illustrate the values of a successful leader, but my fear is because of his incoherent writing style, people read this like a horoscope - they find the things that validate their own leadership style but skim over the rest of the very important characteristics of great leadership (partially because the concepts aren't clearly laid out).
This is one of the most powerful books on leadership I've ever read. Written like a personal manifesto, former Herman Miller CEO Max De Pree talks about leadership in terms of intimacy, elegance, joy and grace. He talks about how at great organizations, it's not about what you do but who you want to become. The book is filled with many "aha" moments, and I know this will be one I'll go back to over and over again for years to come.
As the author said, it's less of a book and more of a collection of thoughts. Overall it was an easy listen. I can appreciate the focus on the idea of a leaders job being to support and build their team. This means talking to them, and putting them in positions to be successful.It's pretty short overall (maybe like 4 hours or something) so not a big commitment. Good ROI.
Max the Pree, the CEO and son of furniture company Herman Miller, shares the learnings of leading a fast growing company, dealing with crisis, and becoming an inclusive corporation in the late 80s.
Long after the book has been published the furniture company is being one of the most respected companies in the world.Time magazines reviewed this book as a valuable lesson in grace, style, and the elements of success.
It’s one of those books that helps to understand how to be more effective, more elegant, more clear and convincing in taking decisions, developing corporate culture, building management skills and stimulating staff potential for the long run.
The author used vocabulary that I could understand and stories that really engaged me in the reading.
I paid attention to every word.As for the content itself, the author did an excellent job of expressing leadership as an art which has to be learned and crafted over the years.
The author lays out all of the qualities needed to be a leader with the examples to back them.
I feel equipped to identify the qualities of leadership I possess and those I need to work on and how to sharpen those skills.
.political, business, school ...
would read it and apply the ethical and spiritual values it contains to their work ...
it is more about business than I remembered and less about education applications ...
which I must have made on my own.This book is a classic, written by a very wise and kind leader who was CEO of Herman Miller for many years, and it contains ideas and ideals of leadership that anyone charged with leading others would do well to follow.
I wish our current president would follow its precepts ...
These is my first book that I read related to my job. Was giving to me by one of the high managers in the company. I really apreciatte the gesture and I must admit that at the beginning I was afraid that I will not like it that it will only include motivational quotes the true is that it teach me a lot. It can be short but is full of lessons, it tell stories and provide perspective. I now think that everybody that wants to be a manager can start by getting ideas from this book.
This book was a mess. It lacks any overall structure or direction, leaving each page disconnected. Hidden inside are some good ideas about recognizing the humanity in people and treating them as whole persons. But I'm sure there are better books to read.
Out of all the books on leadership, this is one of the better ones. It is not a step by step instruction manual. It is an engaging exploration of the philosophy of leadership. Anyone who is interesting in a management position, or is in such a position, should find this book worth reading.
Good book, just not for me. It's a little wordy, but has really good principles.
A much highlighted and flagged book.
Anecdotal business memoir with story telling. Mostly common sense conclusions.
The beauty and grace of employees is cherished in this book.
Had some good ideas and things to remember...still really glad I'm not a supervisor anymore (but I seem to still be a bit of a leader)
Depree gives ample evidence to support his title, presenting leadership as he does with intangibles like character, service, the valuation of the worker, and the need of the leader to trust his people.
I found the concept of profit sharing during the depression especially interesting.However, Depree holds especially strongly to the idea of leading out of an inegral character and participating with followers to establish ownership and strong company loyalty.
However, the atmosphere that encourages creativity in leadership and management seems to be much more likely to embrace creativity in product development.Read Depree because he is easy to digest and highly re-readable.
The book is short, flows smoothly, and presents the fundamental aspects of what it means to be a great leader.
One of its most notable furniture is the Eames game/lounge chair.The book discusses what is Leadership and types of leadership.
Participative leadership comes from the heart and based on personal philosophy.
With roving leadership, leaders take charge in varying ways in the company, it's an all-inclusive type of leading.
covenant (written agreement of the heart) was discussed.
De Pree shared some stories about his time at the company such as "the Millwright died" and "pink urinal." Two concepts discussed as related to leadership was intimacy and communication.
Max DePree is the son of D.J. DePree, who was the founder of the furniture maker company, Herman Miller.
Herman Miller has been widely recognized as a “brilliantly-managed” organization, dedicated to producing exquisitely-designed and crafted furniture.
Max DePree wrote this book to share the ideas, beliefs and principles that have guided him and his father in their business dealings, but that have wide applicability to just about any group activity.Throughout the book, DePree uses analogies and stories to shape his messages and intent.
The best way to describe the flavor of this endearing book is to quote the ending paragraph in Max DePree’s introduction: Many years ago Herman Miller was building an addition to one of its plants.
De Pree admits that he is repetitive, defending this style as a way to present connections between his many leadership principles.
The reader is able to walk away from a first read with a firm grasp on many of these principles--a plus, to be sure.
Still, I found myself often zoning out in passages or skimming because he revisits core concepts so frequently.Leadership is an Art inarguably offers insight on corporate leadership and leadership in a community, reminding us that leadership is inherently a people-management skill and that leaders should work tirelessly to allow subordinates to achieve their potential.
This concept of leaders as liberators is a refreshing new look at leadership in comparison with the hierarchy we so regularly default to.
“Leadership is an Art” is not a book I would have read if it was not part of a course I took for work.
Having finished it, I can only reiterate that point.The best value from this book is when the author, Max DePree, quotes other people (Gandhi, etc.).
Their words have depth and value.
When DePree is telling an anecdote I found myself paying attention, but much of this slim volume is trite clichés or lists.
Nothing wrong with clichés and list, two things I like a lot, but they need to have some depth to be valuable.
I won’t need to read it again.
Of the dozen or so leadership books I've read, the leadership that built the "the house of Hermann Miller" offers by far the most egalitarian approach to business leadership.
That said, it's certainly hard to argue with the success of the world preeminent commercial and residential furniture company.
Where Frank Lloyd Wright, Saarinen, van der Rohe, and Johnson defined the mid-century buildings, Herman Miller defined the interiors.Through the argument of the power of leadership's debt to its supporting partners, this book drive the final stake through the heart of the Marxist Labor Theory exploitation of workers' Labor while presciently points to the rise of the start-up human capital perspective.
In the 15 years since, I decided to read it again, to see if I could learn from it.I found the book to still be relevant for the most part.
It should be read as tool for learning.
As I read it I took notes from it and see how I could incorporate those into the work I do.
Max DePree even mentions to write notes down in the book.The bottom line is, if you are looking for a way to improve things at the company or department you run, this is a very good book to read.
Believers throughout Church history – the early fathers, the Reformers, the Puritans – have been inspired by Scripture to reduce spirituality to two lists known as “the seven deadly sins and the seven virtues” of saintliness. The former includes pride, envy, anger, sloth, avarice, gluttony, and lust. The latter includes wisdom, justice, courage, temperance, faith, love and hope. Even though it finds its origin in one whose life was not centered on Christ our Lord, Mahatma Gandhi’s own list of “s
Believers throughout Church history – the early fathers, the Reformers, the Puritans – have been inspired by Scripture to reduce spirituality to two lists known as “the seven deadly sins and the seven virtues” of saintliness.
The former includes pride, envy, anger, sloth, avarice, gluttony, and lust.
The latter includes wisdom, justice, courage, temperance, faith, love and hope.
Even though it finds its origin in one whose life was not centered on Christ our Lord, Mahatma Gandhi’s own list of “seven deadly sins” in the form of contrasts deserves our attention: Wealth without work, pleasure without conscience, knowledge without character, commerce without morality, science without humanity, worship without sacrifice, politics without principle.
I like the ideas, and concepts depree has on leadership, and running an organization, for instance giving people space to be their best, or being a leader is actually to be in servitude of the ones they lead, and that treating customers as an interruption on your time is something to weep for.
While reading this book, I thought of some great leaders I have had in the workplace and their qualities, and depree definitely pinpoints good qualities to look for in a leader, or to use an example to lead.
