https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/413470.Grampa_in_Oz
Also there is Dorothy, which I appreciate because I love her, but even though she does some cool stuff, it feels like RPT is almost throwing her in as a chore, because Dorothy is the main Oz character everyone loves, and so she sort of has to.
In Grampa's youth, "young lads served in the armies of strange kings, slew monsters and were rewarded with half the kingdom and the Princess' hand." Ugh. Oz should be better than this.
Pretty lame Oz book.
The author, in an effort to make the Oz series her own, creates her own characters but neglects the characters that L.
Frank Baum created -- the ones the readers really care about.
The main problem is that the characters she has created are so similar to Baum's characters that they don't seem worth the effort (except for all the exhausting puns).
Based on the titles of subsequent Oz books by this author, I think either the publishers directed the author, or the author figured out on her own, that she should concentrate more on Baum's characters.
Thompson's writing style is not as charming as Baum's, and in this book she seems to be trying to make up for it with far too many puns inserted in the narrative, many of which will be lost on modern readers (the Tubbies living on Monday Mountain, for example, is only funny if you realize that in the old days, Monday was Wash Day--interesting hillbilly parody, though).
Still, as with all of the Oz books so far, Elijah enjoyed it, and I enjoyed reading it to him.
Thompson seems to have decided that she wants her own characters for the Oz books and only throws in Dorothy and company for effect, almost as an afterthought. This didn't read like an Oz book, though it did have the usual dry puns you'd expect, and the bluff surprises were pretty obvious if you're paying attention.
"Founded on and Continuing The Famous Oz Stories by Frank L Baum."
Nowhere close to the charm, magic, and inventiveness of the originals. These books should not be considered Oz canon.
