https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/486298.Death_Be_Not_Proud
I love reading memoirs, but not so much when it’s a story about a child with cancer.
The edition I'm reviewing is from 1965.In the beginning of the book, John Gunther writes about his son Johnny and describes him as a happy child who loves to spend time with his parents when he’s not in school.
Not only is he a happy and active child, but he’s extremely intelligent and loves school.
I would’ve liked to read the letters from before his diagnosis first, before reading Part 1, but this isn’t the way the book is organized.
But had he survived and remained disabled, would his father’s love have shown a different form: frustration that his son was now pursuing goals that didn’t match his father’s expectations of brilliance and success; anger that his son couldn’t work full-time like his healthy classmates and earn as many bragging rights as they; pity at himself for being given a wonderful child who’d had an awful physical curse?
But as a former star student who did get all the academic awards despite dealing with disability and did work her way through Harvard, getting summa cum laude because my mom would expect nothing less, and whom everyone called brave and unfazed, I wonder what the boy would grow up to think.
I was immediately intrigued, and decided to read this story of a a young boy who dies of a brain tumor.
The book was written by the boy's father after his death, and in many ways is the eulogy of a bereaved father who desperately loves his son.
He writes of the genius of the boy, and we, the reader, come to believe with the father that this young man would have truly changed the world had he been permitted to live.
I first read this book many years ago and came to love the young man who will never reach adulthood.
The death of a child is always sad, and intense medical descriptions are something (for me personally) that induce queasiness.
I did feel like he was trying to convince me that his son's death was more tragic than other children's because he felt his son was more brilliant than others.
This novel also comes from a place of privilege when you have so much money that you can afford the best hospitals and doctors for your child without thinking about it.
It made me feel sad for all the parents who have sick children with added stress of huge medical bills they have no idea how they will pay.
I wonder if Johnny is so selfless because of the time and place which he inhabits - the era being specifically important.
In that era, children were more obedient and common courtesies were more prevalent in society - certainly more-so than in modern society where children rarely seem to show their parents any respect, and fewer still seem to be able to accept illness as Johnny does so graciously.
I feel when I am drawn to read it again in a few years time, I may be able to answer some of my current pontifications, though fear I may only find more on which to speculate.
How do we know that he was not just keeping a brave face for those around him because he did not want to disappoint them?
We know this could be possible, yet we continue to write these tales, which further limit the ability of currently suffering children (and adults) to admit their pain, fears, and despair.Despite these misgivings, the book itself was written well and is undeniably heartfelt.
As the reviews suggest, it has the possibility to give us all hope by reading about the example of one who had so much to lose and kept a brave face through it all.
I picked this up at a used book store prepared to throw it away if it wasn't good.
In my experience, the better the title of a book you've never heard of, the more likely it is to be disappointing.
By that standard, I was willing to take a chance on Death Be Not Proud but fully expected to be disappointed.
I wasn't.
Midway through the book, Johnny writes what he calls the Unbeliever's Prayer.
It's good enough to be from Epictetus or Montaigne-and he was 16 when he wrote it.
This book, a true story told in the most depressing but straight forward manner you could read it in.
The sadness he felt, the total love he had for his son.
The story is about the life of a tumor with in you Johnny Gunther JR.
Which is saying a lot as I rarely read nonfiction.
I myself could take it very personally as my own father almost died from a brain tumor.
Some people have called the story drab and just plain sad.
Johnny was probably the bravest teen I have ever read of.
This book was truly inspiring and should be read.
We should feel blessed that we still have a wonderful life to live.
Johnny had the same age as mine when he left this world.
Too young for such a man than takes every single day of his life to be very very very vital.
Johnny, I salute you!
That is – Death for myself, but not for Johnny, God, not yet.
He’s too young to miss all the other parts of Life, all the other lovely living parts of Life.
What a joy Life is.
Why does no one talk of the joy of Life?
Shout, sing, write of the joy of Life?"–Frances Gunther
reread this memoir,after many years, of a teenage son's 15-month fight against brain cancer in the mid-1940s.
it's moving, and fascinating not only in itself but as a time capsule...
for one thing, gunther references the intelligentsia of the 30s and 40s (somehow without seeming like he's name dropping - but that could also be because the names are older...
for another, you get a tour of orthodox and unorthodox cancer treatments circa 1943/4.i was also struck by the depiction of a teenager who, we'd now say, clearly has ADD!
My mother died from cancer shortly before my twelfth birthday and this might have been the first book about a cancer patient that I read; I did read it around that time.
The first of many books as since that time period I’ve developed a rather morbid interest in reading books about cancer and cancer patients.
I remember appreciating this one because it unflinchingly described what it was like to live with and die from cancer (the honesty extremely unusual for its time) and because I liked the exceptional 17 year old boy with the malignant brain tumor.
I found this drab. A sad story. It was difficult to relate to the situation. Though Johnny Gunther seemed to have had a spirit even his overbearingly proud father could not dim even through his(father's) storytelling. I felt it was a rather inappropriate publication and seemed to have served the purpose of easing his(author's) own pain rather than enlightening the public with the triumphant soul of a helpless child, which is understandable. This story might better have been told with outside assistance.
i read this book because a student of mine had to read it for summer reading at FLC (franklin learning center). mostly, the book left me with a sad, disappointed feeling. i think that the topic of death is an important one, especially because my students are well-acquainted with it and should be given avenues through which to discuss it, but i'd like to think there's another, better book out there.
When I looked at Gunther's Death Be Not Proud in my stack of books , I wondered why it was there , since like most people I had read it for an assignment in High School .
After the shocking fact that High School was 30 + years ago ran through my head , I remembered that I loved this book back then and it was worthy of being a re-read .
Taking it from the stack of books , looking at the cover I suddenly remembered an awesome family that had briefly been a part of my life .
His boy, seventeen-years old at the time, was diagnosed as having a tumor on the brain.
We follow him as a young boy, the pride of his parents, through his school days, into his last year at a premier high school.
Once we have outlined Johnnie, we settle down with his parents and all of the doctors (23!) who were involved in his case, to follow the stages of treatment.
You have to remember that we are reading about medical treatments that are now about 65-years old.
But, on the other hand, it became a little tedious to read after a while and I found myself wondering if Johnny would have been a rather arrogant person from his parents constantly blowing sunshine up his a**.At one point Mr. Gunther quotes his son as saying, "My mother and father think that anything connected with me is remarkable.
These strange parents...." I thought to myself, "Yep. Basically." Overall the book was OK.
At the very end of the book Johnny's mother (the author's ex-wife) included some remarks.
Although according to Goodreads I read this years ago I am not so sure that is the case.
Death Be Not Proud is a father's tender portrait of his young son's brave battle against incurable cancer in the form of a devastating brain tumor.
John Gunther was already a well-established writer when, in 1949, two years after his son's death, he penned this memoir.
Part tribute, part cathartic release of emotions, Gunther manages to capture the essence of his son's spirit whilst chronicling the details of his last fifteen months of life.
What I found most striking was the pure, noble character young Johnny displayed.
The book I read was worth reading.
This book is about a boy, his name is johnny.
This book was as sad as a crying panda bear.
Also I like the book for its theme.
I also liked the tone.
The tone was inspiring and sad.
It was inspiring because the main character johnny never gave up and pushed on, it was sad because he was trying so hard but could never get enough.
This is the only book I read by John Gunther and I enjoyed it.I really liked this book and I recommend you read it too.
This memoir about death is full of life.
John Gunther Jr., also known as Johnny, struggles to hold on to life with the support of his family and friends.
Later, when the doctors had x-rayed Johnny, they discovered that Johnny’s tumor did undergo a glioblastomatous transformation.
Even though there were letters from Johnny and others in the book I still would have liked to see Johnny’s point of view.
I thought that the book could have been a good mystery as to if Johnny survived  because Johnny’s health kept going back and forth.
However, I still think the book could have had the mystery outcome of whether Johnny lived or died.
Though he'd written a number of best-sellers in his time, Death Be Not Proud is for the most part the only book for which he is remembered.The story deals with the discovery that his teenage son has a serious brain tumor that will lead to death and the road that the parents take to prolong the young man's life.
In the memoir Death Be Not Proud, John Gunther tells a story of his son Johnny Gunther after he has been diagnosed with brain cancer.
Gunther, already being a journalist takes you on a journey throughout Johnny’s life and little by little you learn everything he loved in life and how he dealt with his cancer at such a young age.
Do not get me wrong this book is a very great book because it takes you on such an emotional roller coaster from when Johnny was first diagnosed to his best days during his cancer journey.
John Gunther is an author, well known in his time, who tells the story of his son Johnny's short life from the spring weekend he was diagnosed with a brain tumor to his death just over a year later, just after his high school graduation.
Change the language from X-ray to radiation, eliminate mustard gas and replace it with some other unproven experimental treatment, and change the type of diet, and both the treatment and the disease progress will feel the same then as it does now.But if cancer has changed very little, the way we live around it has changed so deeply, and that's what was more disheartening to me, today.
Death Be Not Proud is a non-fiction book about a high schooler named Jonny Gunther that was diagnosed with a brain tumor.
I think Death Be Not Proud is the first memoir that I have ever read, and reading non-fiction books is hard for me.
What makes non-fiction hard for me to read is that it always tells a true story.
I think that people need to read more non-fiction because non-fiction books are what grounds us to reality.
(Gunther 137) This line captured the early death of a child and really made me think about what life actually is.
Death Be not Proud  by John Gunther is a memoir about his son Johnny's sickness.
Johnny is a seventeen year old boy who is diagnosed with a brain tumor.
after his first operation Johnny see's countless doctor and tries many varieties of treatment.
He tried mustard gas, a special diet, another operation, etc.
Johnny was a very intelligent and sensitive boy.
During the summer Johnny does experiments and tries to act normal.
During his fifteen month sickness Johnny spend months in the hospital off and on.
All the things he loved!" I loved this book it made me cry multiple times.
But the book was so different because the way John Gunther writes is indescribable.
Differentiating between the happy and the sad moments is probably the hardest part about reading this book.
John Gunther describes the sad moments in some what the same matter as he describes the happy moments, which could possibly be influenced by the fact that he is writing about his son’s death.
The way John Gunther writes this piece is interesting and intriguing.
Therefore, John Gunther does an excellent job on this piece and I don’t believe that there is anything I would change about this book.
John Gunther writes a wonderful memoir for his late son, john (Johnny) Gunther jr., that is equally filled with sorrow and heartbreak as it is with love and admiration.
After Johnny realizes his condition may be terminal, his priorities are forced to change drastically.
Many operations and treatments later, Johnny finds himself on a tumor-fighting diet that improves his condition immensely.
By making up work while he was hospitalized, Johnny is able to graduate from his old school, Deerfield.
I can judge this book merely on the writing, rather than the story.
Gunther also included the perfect amount of specific details about Johnny's illness.
There have clearly been great strides in treating cancers since then, but the type which Johnny Gunther had is still fatal in a very short period.
I thought Johnny was very brave in the face of the procedures they put him through, incredibly intelligent, and his death was a true loss of talent.
However, I think the parents, in not telling him the truth about his illness, would probably have made very different choices today.
I felt a great deal of sympathy for Frances and John Gunther in the tragic early loss of their son to such a devastating illness.

I read this book in 7th or 8th grade.
My copy today is an ex library book and still has its young adult sticker.
This surprises me as I wonder if it keeps adults from reading it??
As a young girl I had a bit of a crush on young Johnny.
But today the book does nothing but make me think of my sons and my grandchildren.
What a job John Gunther has done to make such a good book out of such personal loss.
A quick glance at Google shows me that not too much more could be done for Johnny today.
RIP John Gunther Jr
