https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10872085-only-time-will-tell
This new series featuring Harry Clifton, son of a dockworker (or is he the son of an upper crust owner of a huge shipping line?), and his climb through the British public school system is going to be a delight if this first one of five is any indication.
Make no mistake, this is not a Pulitzer, but it is good, solid storytelling, with bold characters, a world wide setting, and a story that has enough twists, turns, and sneaky heart-stoppers to definitely merit the label "page turner."The story involves Harry, as he grows from an angelic choirboy into an intelligent, hardworking young man faced with the difficult choice of going to Oxford upon graduation from the US equivalent of high school, or joining the armed forces as Britain enters the war against Hitler.
For me, that would be this book.The author goes to great lengths to convince us that yes, the Main Character is indeed a brilliant child/man with unseen depths and superb intellect.
Since Main Character is brilliant, but would refuse the help of those who love him.I haven't come across that sort of blatant ass-kissing of a fictional character since I read Stephanie Meyer's homage to the Supreme Glorious Awesome Majestic Sparkleness that is His Magnificence, Edward Cullen.
Morgen wird sofort band zwei gekauft 🤗
This book is set up so that each section is from one person's perspective.
The remaining chapters are told by a third present omnipresent narrator still focused on that character.
The narrator occasionally provides some insight into what the other people currently in the scene are thinking.
Each character's story fills in gaps left in previous issues because either that character didn't think it was that important or because the previous narrator didn't know.
This is a story about friendship, about the way different events are important to different people, and about how the actions of others - that we don't even know about - can affect so many aspects of our lives.
A heart warming story set back in the early 1900’s which follows a young lad named Harry Clifton as he faces the many obstacles throughout his life’s journey to manhood. There are also several strong characters in this book with chapters devoted to their own narration. It was an enjoyable tale and hard to put down. Also recommended is Jeffrey Archer’s classic novel ‘Kane & Abel’ an extraordinary book not to be missed.
Especially the beginning of this historical family saga had me intrigued because it tells enchantingly about these three boys and their struggles on a boarding school.
It didn't feel natural for him to suddenly talk about Churchill and his actions up to the Second World War. Also, this is one of those books that you should read for its story, not for its writing.
All in all, the beginning of this novel intrigued me, but having now finished it I don't think I'm going to continue reading this long family saga.

It was well written because Archer is incapable of writing poorly.
I realize that there are 5 sequels coming, but most authors do write books that can stand alone, even though there are sequels.
Archer, having been around since the year of the flood, knows better.
The protagonist in this book is arrested in the U.S. at the beginning of WW II and the cops read him his rights!?!?
The Miranda rule made its debut 20 years AFTER the war ended.
Methinks that Archer and his editors have been watching too much Law and Order!
Wahnsinn, was für eine Reise! Ein wirklich tolles Hörbuch und eine mega sympathische Geschichte.Spiel der Zeit ist nicht unbedingt mein Genre... Ein historisches Familiendrama... Und doch hat es mir aufgrund des flotten Schreibstils und der fantastischen Charaktere richtig gut gefallen. Lediglich ein paar kleine Spannungsflauten drücken meine Bewertung um einen Stern, denn es wurde zu oft ein und die selbe Geschichte aus verschiedenen Perspektiven erzählt. Abgesehen davon fand ich es wirklich toll! Und dann auch noch dieser Cliffhanger. Aaaaah. Gott sei Dank hab ich die nächsten Teile schon hier.
This saga is the first in what is to be at least a three-book set (quite possibly more) entitled the Clifton Chronicles, centered around the character Harry Clifton.
Relatively plotless, the story was however so engaging it was difficult to put down, with the interesting technique of revealing the tale little by little from different character's points of view.
We hear from Harry's mother Maisie, his best friend Giles, Gile's sister Emma, Gile's father Hugo, Harry's friend "Old Jack", and from Harry himself on a couple of different occasions.
My Rating: 4.4/5I never imagined that Only Time Will Tell would be this good.
Jeffrey Archer have wrote a thought through story which has a great story and great characters.
The writing and prose is simple and precise.
The dialogue is extraordinary.
I loved all the characters in the novel.
I didn't hate even a single one.
I just fricking love that character.
I loved the setting and the phase more than anything.
I couldn't even put the book down.
But still the book is really really Awesome.
I loved it and I will read the next one.Thank you for reading the review.
You know in fact very early on who the central character's father is, but what keeps you reading is to discover how the author is going to weave together all the details to make an entertaining story that makes sense.
In this respect it works very well as an audiobook because the repetition means you are not going to miss important details.
Deep things to think about, deep character portrayal, lots of historical details are not what you will find served in this book.
Action and finding out what is going to happen, that is what you read the book for.
I loved Harry's story of love, loyalty, strife, friendship and his persistence for excellence. Jeffrey Archer hits it out of the park with this epic tale of a young boy trying, with the help of his friends and family, to make his life something no less than extraordinary. What an excellent beginning to a wonderful adventure. I am definitely going to start immediately with book two that covers Harry's young adult life. The narratives by both, Roger Allam and Emilia Fox were spot on and helped to push this book to a five star for me.
I read this on my husband 's recommendation.
He really enjoyed it and went on to read the next in the series.
I also found the way so many miscellaneous adults were working behind the scenes to make sure the young Harry achieved his destiny was unrealistic and overdone.
On the other hand the book was well written, some of the characters we're very well done and I feel a spark of interest in Harry's future.
Luckily for me my husband has bought all the books so I have them available as soon as I am ready.
I really enjoyed this. Archer did such a great job in setting up a solid story while creating memorable characters. So excited to get to the rest in this series... one benefit to waiting so long to start this series is not having to wait for the next book. Happy dance!
In "Only Time Will Tell," Harry Clifton believes that he will end up working at the docks like his father, whom he never met, and his uncle.
Filled with family secrets and stories of the different ways life can take us, this book was the great kick off to what promises to be an exciting series!I love characters that you can root for!
I don't want to give anything away but there are a lot of secret connections between Harry and some of the other characters in the book and I loved seeing them unraveled throughout the book.
“Some people stand by you in your darkest hour, while others walk away; only a select few march toward you and become even closer friends.”“Only Time Will Tell” – to say I enjoyed reading this first book in the Clifton Chronicles would be an understatement.
Jeffrey Archer is a master storyteller: Clean, captivating writing; clever interwoven plot(s); and well-developed characters of great distinction.
I’m thrilled to have read it.
And I’m even more thrilled San Diego County Library system has every book in series.
And Jeffrey Archer knows how to write a FIVE STAR story that casts a wide reader-appeal net.
As usual, the master story teller weaves a beautiful story about the lives of two boys, Harry Clifton and Giles Barrington who become fast friends in school. The book is about two families, Cliftons and Barringtons who live at the two extremes of the social strata. All the characters in the book are interesting, especially the soldier Jack Tarrant, who takes charge of Harry Clifton's life guiding him and playing his mentor. This is a story of friendship, sacrifice and love.Need to pick up the 2nd instalment of the Clifton Chronicles off my shelf soon !
Having retired two years ago, I took up reading, and have averaged one novel a week.
In December 2012, I read my first Jeffrey Archer novel and am now hooked.
He is the best story teller I have read in the past two years.
ONLY TIME WILL TELL is the 1st of the three novels Mr. Archer has written regarding the Cliftons.
His 2nd Clifton novel, THE SINS OF THE FATHER, is equally engrossing.
I am really looking forward to the 3rd novel of the Clifton Chronicles, BEST KEPT SECRET, due this Spring.
Jeffrey Archer has become my favorite author.
First, the good things about this book: It makes for a good read as it keeps you hooked throughout, with a cliff hanging suspense at the end of every chapter.
It felt like I was reading a soap opera.
It seemed like every second page had something to corroborate his brilliance (even though it is done mostly through people discussing in conspiratorial whispers about his talent and how he must never know how they help him) or how Old Jack manages to know every possible important person in Harry's life from the war and engage them to help him.
Even though I liked the pace and suspense initially, you just know when you have had too much of it.
3.5 stars The ending was a cliffhanger which ticks me off.I am always hesitant to start another series, but I've heard such great praise for The Clifton Chronicles, that when "Only Time Will Tell," the first in the series, was offered as a free ebook, I snatched it up.
With that cliffhanger, do I have a choice?It's a wonderful cast of characters, reminiscent (IMO) of Peyton Place, and I hope the author doesn't take offense at that.
innocent children/ sinful parents, in small town Bristol, England, where everyone knows everyone else.
And the The Sins of the Father are Best Kept Secret.
I grew up reading the early novels and I haven't read any for a long time.But, it's just as I remember, Archer is a very good story teller. He doesn't waste time on literary affectations such as unwieldy metaphors or lengthy character descriptions: the goodies are always good and the baddie is always bad.The characters are a bit stereotypical but it has always been that way with Archer. Easy to read and passes the time.I enjoyed it and will carry on reading the rest of the series.
In fact, I simply loved this story and found that Mr. Archer delivered a page-turning saga filled with twists and enough of a surprise at the end that I added book #2 to my library already.
I am so curious to see what comes next.The story revolves around the main character Harry Clifton, a boy growing up in the backdrop of docks in Bristol at the start of the 20th century.
The driving force is the plot and the pace picks up fast when Harry gets out of school and so did my interest.
This story will appeal to those who love smooth suspense with moderate action.
As the story progresses, Harry continues to be scholastically sound, but his heart remains weak when it coms to young Emma Barrington, sister of Giles and eldest daughter of Hugo.
Archer begins the series with a splendid foundation, sure to offer many offshoots in the coming books.
The book has the flavour of Follett's Century series and Rutherfurd's multi-generational novels, where the reader must pay attention not only to the story, but also the collection of characters and their nuances.
This is sure to keep readers wondering what lies ahead, the test of a well-crafted novel.
This book now has a spot in my top 100 reads of all time.
It was so different from what I usually read.
However I am very glad that I went ahead and read this!
They each held their own in their chapters and I actually liked them all equally(apart from the dastardly villain that is).The plot was engaging and original and kept my interest the entire time.
The writing flowed beautifully and the author writes everything so masterfully that I had no choice but to devour this amazing book.I normally am a little skeptical when people rave like crazy in a review, but I suppose I am now joining their ranks.I would definitely recommend this novel.
The other, the Clifton's, is a poor working class family where just putting food on the table can be a struggle.
His uncle expects Harry to join him at the shipyard once he is done with school.But there are others who take an interest in Harry and believe that he can have a better destiny than working as a stevedore on the docks.
There is his mother of course who, in the absence of a father, works to not only put food on the table but to provide Harry with a chance for a better life.
giving me more time to experience these characters, to journey with them and despite how big the books are, while reading, you're glad for it.
The surprising thing is that despite how fluid the reading was, I felt like this book took really long to finish, lol, longer than I had expected when seeing the magnitude of its size.
None the less, I loved every second of every page, every chapter and once I take a quick break, (this book was a project to finish) I want to return to Clifton Chronicles!
Decidi ler este livro precisamente por não ter encontrado opiniões (infelizmente e injustamente pouco falado!) e além disto fui atraído pela luz da sinopse!
E, qual o meu espanto,fui completamente engolido logo nas primeiras vagas do livro e fui ficando cada vez mais extasiado com os capítulos seguintes, querendo mais e mais, e ao mesmo tempo não querendo avançar depressa, só para estar por mais tempo com os personagens excepcionais.
Foi realmente uma excelente leitura e já estou super desejoso por adquirir o 2º que sairá em Outubro, e que venham mais e depressa (desta saga são 6 livros!).
Archer has the great gift of being able to write very complex stories - with many characters, changing points of view, important historical background, and repeated surprises - and keep the whole thing under his total control.
I felt complete confidence that Archer had command of the story at every stage, right up until the last of many shocking events, which of course sets the stage for the next book in this family saga.
This is a fairly long book which I nevertheless read straight through on a 5 hour train ride and then two more hours in bed.
I think the series will compare well with his previous very successful efforts.
