https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7367816-the-secret-of-high-eldersham
I enjoyed this book, but there was a huge difference in both plot development and writing style between The Secret of High Eldersham and Death in the Tunnel.
The first couple of chapters did a good job of focusing on the murder of the former police officer Whitehead, but around the 27% when Desmond Merrion starts researching the practice of witchcraft, the plot derailed.
Why was he spending so much time investigating a smuggling ring instead of trying to discover who killed Whitehead?
Merrion and Inspector Young only discover the murderer at the end of the book out of sheer dumb luck and not any investigating prowess on their part.
Enjoyed reading what I consider to be a very typical English murder mystery from the 1930's.
A retired policeman who took on the job as a pub manager is killed and Scotland Yard is called in to solve the crime.
Young realizing the difficulty of getting information out of a small-town and close-mouthed group will make solving the case practically impossible.
So he requests help from friend Desmond Merrion.Nicely written and you can really see the surroundings and events.
Also enjoyed the constant turns of curious events that felt like they might never add up, and then do all come together at the end.
Just regular enjoyable reading.
Reviewed for The Bibliophibian.The Secret of High Eldersham is a bit of a weird one, really, with a lot of rather sensational stuff going on.
It seems like it’s going to be one of those sleepy little village mysteries, but then there’s a whole mess of occult stuff coming in!
It’s fairly typical in many ways of the period, with the intrepid amateur detective (who doesn’t quite run rings round the police, but they’re definitely indebted to him) and a love interest, terrible peril, etc, etc.Miles Burton makes it work, though, and I’ve enjoyed another of his books too (finding it, on the whole, less sensational and more realistic).
Thank you Poisoned Pen Press for re-releasing this book.The first story to feature Desmond Merrion, this book starts out with the description of a small village, seemingly untouched by the modern day (the main road goes around it) and newcomers seem to have spates of bad luck that run them out of town.
So why was he stabbed so ferociously one evening?At first, Detective Inspector Young, called in from Scotland Yard thinks this is an open and shut case.
So Inspector Young writes to a man he's known from the war, Desmond Merrion.
What starts out as a promising country murder, with a bit of supernatural frisson on the side, degenerates in the final third into a whole bunch of nonsense and damsel-in-distress tomfoolery. Relies too heavily on phrases like "a horrid thrill ran through his bones" and "he felt the taint of evil in the air." And the ultimate evil doer telegraphs his status with flaring nostrils and a moody brow from about the third chapter. Unfortunately, this was a miss for me.I received an ecopy from the publishers and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
Traditional mystery with added modernityMuch of this book would fit easily into the golden age but the prescience of its drugs and witchcraft motif elevates it to a higher level. The writing is comfortably traditional but the reader is constantly anticipating yet more skullduggery than is usually the case in golden age stories. An excellent read.
This, of course, is a common difficulty for vintage crime novels – subsequent writers have reused and recycled the plots so often, it’s quite hard to know when they were first original.But having a good idea of the underlying crime didn’t in any way diminish my liking for the book.
And a jolly good sidekick he is too, with skills of his own, and happily Merrion treats him as an equal – often the patronising way these ex-servicemen sidekicks are portrayed in the Golden Age puts me off the books, like Campion’s Lugg or Wimsey’s Bunter.
I’ve rated it as a three but others may rate it higher.It’s more of a ripping boys own adventure on the water with a murder thrown in than your classic golden age mystery.
The main characters are terminally thick, making the story drag on longer than it should and causing me to throw up my hands in annoyance when they almost die but get saved by absurd good fortune.
Ends with not all the criminals getting their comeuppance and the main characters being glad because it means less annoyance for them.
(view spoiler)[The country squire whose daughter the main character falls in love with and marries was totally in on the evil criminal plot so he doesn't want the plot exposed b/c it might tarnish her reputation!
In a village shrouded in secrets and where the locals are intensely distrustful of strangers a grisly discovery is made late one night by a local constable, the pub landlord stabbed to death.
Outside help is called in from Scotland Yard and Detective Young starts to suspect there is a lot more to High Eldersham than meets the eye.
When Young invites crime expert Desmond Merrion on to the case, we get an amateur sleuth thrown into the mix.
The last half of the book sees Merrion sleuthing whilst travelling up and down the local waterways, which was an aspect I really enjoyed, you don't get many crime solvers seeking answers from a boat.
Oh I do like a vintage detective story. Throw in a spooky sub plot and I'm anybodies. And this is fab. MB might not be Dame Agatha but his writing has a world created and abused before your eyes, puzzles set and reset, villiany afoot and witches abroad all in one sleepy rural English village. Its not for the faint hearted.ToastMy copy has a much better cover.
A solid 1930s who done it with lots of main character commentary. Seems like many folks back then talked to themselves.
I enjoyed this but the ending was a bit over 'wordy'. Entertaining and a different look at witchcraft.`
I enjoyed this but the ending was a bit over 'wordy'. Entertaining and a different look at witchcraft.`
The Yard is called in, but Inspector Young soon identifies some puzzling aspects to the case.
He calls in his old friend Merrion, who immediately becomes enthralled by the lively daughter of the local squire.
Another old acquaintance of Merrion's, Hollesley, also lives in the locality, and seems to be equally interested in Mavis.
Soon Merrion is racing up and down the local river in a hired yacht, observing the locals.
The case becomes very complicated, involving local superstitions, members of the London social scene, and strange doings on a sandbank.
I've recently found out that the British Library decided to publish forgotten classics from the golden age of British crime writing.
Many of these titles haven’t been seen in print since before the II World War. I love this genre and it's been an interesting trip through "new" authors and through time.
That's one of the aspects I mostly enjoy.
I like to travel when I can and when I can't there'll always be a book to get me where I wish to go.
In these forgotten classics I'm also allowed to travel in time.
So far I'm enjoying the trips.
I'll keep travelling.
A pleasant read with a fairly simple plot. It was quite easy to predict the ending. All the main characters were men, with lots of manly bravery. The women were mainly secondary characters and reacting to the events rather than actively influencing them. I haven't read any other books by this author but he seemed to be more comfortable writing masculine action scenes rather than anything with more emotional depth. I wasn't too keen on the (view spoiler)[ occult sub-plot (hide spoiler)] but overall I enjoyed this book.
I happened upon this book while scanning the library shelves. The cover got my attention. Not the one shown here but a huge English manor home. That grabbed me. The introduction was very informative. This book was originally published in 1930. The way it was written spans time and can easily be set in modern day, or any time. It really held my attention and will be looking for more books by Cecil Street too, his real name.
This had such a promising set-up: Scotland Yard are called to investigate the case of a pub landlord who's been murdered in an eccentric English village that doesn't take well to having strangers about. But the promising start was scuppered when Burton decided to take a detailed detour into witchcraft and smuggling, with a bit of romance thrown in for added drama. If only Burton had just stuck with the murder, this could have been an "I love it" rather than an "It was OK."
I discovered this at A Mystery to Me bookstore among a whole group of mysteries that have been reprinted for a new audience, under the title "British Library Crime Classics." Fell for the cover, the description and the opening sentences. An enjoyable read, a quirky mystery and a new author to look for. What more can you ask of a summer read?
A very entertaining read. Nothing extremely special about it, but still a good read. The characters were interesting enough, even if the dual protagonists were a bit flat. Definitely more of a thriller than a detective novel. You are given a few clues to figure out who the culprit is, but they are mostly red herrings. The culprit really does come from left field.
I murder mystery which has the unusual feature of a witchcraft theme. Despite this, it is rather conventionally told and, after a mildly intriguing opening, becomes quite tedious in the middle section. There is some suspense towards the end, with the hero and heroine placed in danger, which helps redeem the story to a certain extent.
Engaging Classic I enjoyed reading this mystery. In many ways a classic of the Golden Age of mystery, yet unique in its supernatural themes. The plot is presented at the very beginning yet continues to develop consistently through out the book. Good balance of beautiful narrative and well paced plot.
More an adventure story, really, than a mystery, and probably doesn't bare too much thinking about, but it was entertaining enough. (Though I'm pretty sure everything about witchcraft in it is hooey.)
An entertaining mix of whodunnit and adventure story. Good characters and a good story.I don't want to give anything away but, if you liked The Hardy Boys or Nancy Drew as a kid, these conjure up much the same sort of atmosphere.I'm off to see whether Mr Burton wrote any other mysteries.
It's a wonderful mystery story, with a bit of spookiness but nothing sinister. All ends well, the bad guys get their just desserts and the good guy gets the girl! I'm looking forward to reading more of Merrion's investigations.
Classic British mystery written in 1930, this story takes place in a small village in East Anglia. The owner of the local pub was murdered. He happened to be a retired policeman. DI Young from Scotland Yard is called to investigate and he asks the assistance of a friend who is an amateur sleuth.
I enjoyed the book when I was reading it. The characters were interesting and well developed. But too many loose ends were wrapped up in one solution at the end.
Great book - good story and characters - kept going smoothly and well written. Enjoyed the story and will look out for more. Love the covers on these British Classic book as well!
A very curious and surprising book that is much darker than it looks. Easy to read and well paced.
Very well done.
