https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13496738-while-it-lasts
Even before Fifty Shades of Grey introduced my girly bits to a full blown bookgasm; I was a Glines reader.
Imagine a hot guy that gets you all worked up, makes you feel it in all the right places, but every single time he finishes without ever giving you the big "O".
So far, your books have made me feel "good" but no big "O".
It's like daddy erotic novel got with mama YA-fiction and made a baby!
I know me and your books have had an indifferent relationship in the past, but I love your writing; always have.
If you like lots of great sexual tension, being inside of a man's head as he thinks naughty thoughts, and yummy foreplay leading up to when the couple seals the deal, you'll be good to go.Who should NOT read this book?
Anyone who rolls their eyes at super jealous alpha males, stories that focus on not much else except for romance and sex, or anyone who's read more than one Glines book before (other than Breathe because that one was her weakest) and struggles with the fact that not much changes from book to book other than minor location and story details.
I've read four books of hers now and none of them left a good taste in my mouth except for Asher.
Abbi writes short, fast moving, to the point stories-- Nothing that leaves a lasting memory for me.
There were times I did really like him in While It Lasts-- and I loved him in Because of Low. However, I need more than a hero to win me over.Craziest part is, I'd gotten quite a few messages while reading her books that went along the lines of, "Why are you reading Abbi Glines?" Not even lying with that one.
A HUNDRED STARS, A THOUSAND STARS... OH HECK FOR THE AWESOMENESS THAT IS CAGE ALONE, A MILLION STARS!!!! OH MY FREAKIN' GOODNESS..... i'll will write my proper review soon BUT in the meantime... I'm sure lots of you remember how crazy i was for Marcus in Because of Low... well... i can SAFELY say after finishing While It Lasts, that i am A MILLION times more in love with Cage... Who would have thunk it... after meeting Cage in Because of Low, i was CONVINCED he was the biggest man-whore/a$$wipe
OH HECK FOR THE AWESOMENESS THAT IS CAGE ALONE, A MILLION STARS!!!!
I'm sure lots of you remember how crazy i was for Marcus in Because of Low...
i can SAFELY say after finishing While It Lasts, that i am A MILLION times more in love with Cage...
after meeting Cage in Because of Low, i was CONVINCED he was the biggest man-whore/a$$wipe on the face of the earth...
now i realise he is just the BIGGEST sweetheart who was obviously waiting for the right girl to come along (and turn into a pile of goo) and that girl was Eva...Oh Cage...
3 1/2 to 4 stars A fun, sweet, and emotional book. It's also sexy, frustrating, humorous, brazen, and full of stereotypical college age drama. I very much enjoyed reading this story.
Wilson is someone who demands respect and hard work, so Cage is not getting off easy.
Even if Wilson didn’t tell Cage that she’s completely off limits, Eva herself looks at him like he’s the dirt beneath her fingernails.
Twenty-year old Eva is still grieving over the only love she ever knew, Josh.
After being slowly wooed and seduced by Cage, Eva finds that she’s coming back to life again, but guilt feelings over Josh hold her back.
So he just used girls up, never letting them mean a thing.
"She had the power to break me. No one had ever been given that power, ever. Eva could do it. If I let her in any further she could completely destroy me." When Eva and Cage first meet there is an immediate attraction...but Eva, a good girl trying to cope with a recent tragedy, wants nothing to do with a (gorgeous) bad-boy like Cage who was sent there to work for her father as punishment for his DUI. Besides, even if she was interested, her father has forbidden her to even go near Cage...Let's
When Eva and Cage first meet there is an immediate attraction...but Eva, a good girl trying to cope with a recent tragedy, wants nothing to do with a (gorgeous) bad-boy like Cage who was sent there to work for her father as punishment for his DUI.
Besides, even if she was interested, her father has forbidden her to even go near Cage...Let's give a warm welcome to the flirtatious bickering, charming jealousy and delicious sexual tension...!!This story was so sweet and off-the-charts STEAMY!
While the story reads like a YA, the toe-curling love scenes most definitely do not!
**4.5 Cage stars**Apparently, I'm the last romance reader to read this steamy Abbi Glines book.
While browsing the local online library I saw this one was available as an audio download.
Both a male and female read Cage and Eva's parts.
I know I've said it before but audios can be great because they allow you freedom to do other things while listening-> you can cook dinner, go on a walk, etc.
Listening to this story had me swooning over Cage.
Book #9 is due out Oct. 2014 to find out when it is available click here.
I want to spend my summer on a hot cowboy ranch with Cage York to drool over.
His arm reached out beside me and took the piece of chocolate cake I'd brought him.Cage York is sent to Eva Brooks’ father’s ranch for the summer as a penance for his bad boy spins lately.
Easier said than done, when he lays eyes on beautiful Eva. Eva is soon drooling over Cage – even though she doesn’t want to be.
A wonderful setting, a drool-worthy bad boy, a heart tugging backstory, a lovely heroine and just enough drama.
I think I just struck gold with my latest read by Abbi Glines.
I have always enjoyed her books, but 'While it lasts' was in a different league altogether.The book starts with a heart clenching prologue which sets the scene nicely for the addictive read.Gorgeous Bad boy with the kindest heart, meets bitter, heartbroken country girl - Need I say more?
Abbi Glines books are swoon worthy, heart felt and very nicely written, I love how I am involved in her stories from the start and this book delivers on all counts for me.
Self Note: Cannot stand this Hero!
At about 80% he slept with a few girls in just ONE WEEKND..and yeah we suppose to sympathize with him because he thought of the heroine while in the acts with the OW's?
and heroine forgive him without any groveling?
How come you could go back to a guy that instead of fighting for you, he "has his intimacy" to a completely strange women, but you were not good enough to give that intimacy to you?
Another book with the heroine getting "sloppy seconds" of the Hero!
Will I make it to August 7th?? I seriously doubt it!!! I need CAGE NOW!!Someone take me to Cage Heaven!!! I want him!! I want him now!! Starts off:  Ends: ((This is what you did Abbi! :) ))  glitter-graphics.com
I did not read the previous 2 books in this series because from the reviews they weren’t as highly rated and after coming away somewhat disappointed from Abbi Glines, The Vincent Boys series, I wasn’t sure I wanted to waste my time.
I might now go back and read them, but I wasn’t lost in starting at Book 3, WiL.Cage is sent for the summer to work for Eva’s dad on their ranch as punishment from his junior college baseball coach because he received a DUI.
The author handled the distinction very tastefully because I felt deeply for both Josh and Cage.I highly recommend this story to even those who are skeptical about Young Adult romance books like me.
I wanted to see who would break through this bad boys shell and what type of girl Cage would give his heart to.Eva was perfect.
Just seeing how she lifts him when he needs it was wonderful and I loved her for that.Cage is still the dirty talking bad boy we love.
Low is such an important part of Cage’s life and I was so happy to see her have a part in this book.
There was no putting this down and leaving it for another day!I liked Breathe, I loved Because of Low, but boy I just LOVED While It Lasts!
The bad boy falling in love for the first time is always great reading, and I enjoyed watching Cage go through all of the motions as he realised what he was feeling.
Her heartbreak and sense of absolute loss over the death of her fiancé was devastating to read at times, and I liked the development of her character as she started to overcome that and come back to life, with Cage right beside her and holding her hand.
I'm a ABBI GLINES fan! I've been waiting for Cage Story after i fall in Love with Marcus.☺ Glad he had a happy ending! Love it!♥ Uploaded with ImageShack.us
Whooooo was this book hot!! I'm super excited that Abbi went out of YA and into contemporary romance with this book. Cage is too hot for PG!! This book was everything I want in a book. Heart tugging, steamy romance, and a dreamy guy!
I say nearly because I am actually going to write this review...despite the fact that sentences aren't forming as clearly in my head as they should be right now, thanks to a certain god-like steamy fantasy come true named Cage that I was just treated to!!
He is sexy as all get-out, and I loved seeing the sweet side of him with Eva. And getting to see his POV, as always is the case with Abbi's work, was just a delish treat!!!!!
Abbi Glines podrá ser muchas cosas (machista y superficial está entre su lista de muchas cualidades, por ejemplo), pero tonta para nada.
No pienso tocar un libro de Abbi Glines en mi vida.While It lasts tiene como protagonista a Cage York, la tercera rueda de Because of Low. Mujeriego, violento y con una infancia terrible, Cage es el típico personaje masculino que odio con toda mi alma.
Supongo que eso es más personal, a mí no me gusta para nada esa necesidad de tener/querer casarse apenas se termina el secundario.
Besides who can blame him if you read the previous book Because of Low then you know how much of a man whore Cage is.
She gives in to temptation knowing that Cage is a player and can charm just about any girl out of her panties.
Not that i mind in the least i like my YA with a little spice but all the sliding and thrusting caught me a little off guard.Anywho, i read this whole series just to get to this book i am not a huge Abbi Glines fan however this series has won me over i am excited that Cage and Eva will soon get another book.
We get to see some of our fave characters in the series like Marcus, Low and Preston.
Hot. I loved Cage in Because of Low. I know a lot of people thought he was just a gross, womanizing ass, but I couldn't wait for his story, because I knew there was more to this dude than he let on.
Eva's dealt with a major heartbreak - more than any 20 year old should endure (which by the way, had me crying during the first 3 pages) and Cage just doesn't know how to actually handle the fact that he's in love with her.
One thing screamed out at me as I was reading this, though.
Eva reminded me ALOT of Ashton from the Vincent Boys/Bros and Cage seemed like almost a knockoff of Beau, sometimes to the point of distraction for me.
Ashton and Eva are both innocents who experienced long term relationships with stable, good boys without managing to give away their V cards.
No, but similar enough for me to notice as I was reading While It Lasts.
Regardless of that, it's still a solid 3 stars because I had a good time reading it and didn't end up feeling like I wasted my time.
8/10/13This book is just as good the second time around and Cage is still sexy as hell.I never thought I would really like Cage, but after reading White it Lasts I fell in love with him. Abbi really knocked it out of the park with this one and even turned up the heat. I loved it so much! There isn't a book out there of Abbi's that I haven't loved and this one is right up there with the rest.
Best of Sea Breeze so far!
3.5 StarsYou should probably know up front that the hot, lost, and difficult men that usually end up crushing my heart like a bug are my type of guys in real life.
*points finger at Cage* Eva, a farmer’s daughter with an inner bad girl mode, is sheltered and emotionally shut down due to pain and loss of her own.
Readers heard the pain from his point of view, but I never felt like he shared it with Eva. Even when Cage introduced Eva to his world and opened up in ways he never had before, they really just dealt with his reputation.
“I gotta admit your gallantry at attempting to save me from the big bad mean cows was noble in a moronic sort of way”  <--- Therein lies the solitary golden moment for me. It's when I thought I was going to love WHILE IT LASTS. It's with a line like that I turned all hopeful, expectant even. I really thought this would have just the right mix of funny, dramatic, and sexy. (That maybe, just maybe, my moment of loving Vincent Brothers wasn’t a one time only.) Sadly, it’s too much of the last t
It's with a line like that I turned all hopeful, expectant even.
(That maybe, just maybe, my moment of loving Vincent Brothers wasn’t a one time only.) Sadly, it’s too much of the last two, with fewer and fewer instances of the first.
Needless to say, there was a lot of comparing going on, in the end Eva’s story offered little beyond sexy times with Cage.
And the sexy times?
With it, I might have liked this more.
I really do wish that WIL had stuck to the hints of music.
Those early hints revealed little of what Eva had to offer.
Yep she was scared to move on because it's like disrespecting or being unfaithful to Josh but we all know life has to go on.
Cage may have a lot of experiences with women but he never experienced falling in love with someone hard.
You know that part when Eva was saying that Cage has more experience than she is?
Funny thing is Cage is inexperienced in falling hard for someone.This is self pity:
"Girls like Eva didn’t want to keep me.
I enjoyed other parts!Eva singing that song in the bar declaring her love for Cage!
(The review was written back in 2012, when I was a fangirl of Abbi Glines, so be kind ;-)) Talking about a good girl going bad.
And bad she went.
Good for her :).This one was one of those (few) books that I just couldn't put it down.I didn't knew what I was getting my self in to.
When I read the plot I thought it's going to be a story about summer love, a lot of flirting, maybe some making out here and there and a lot of boy chasing after a girl.
But it was so much more than that.Let me just st
When I read the plot I thought it's going to be a story about summer love, a lot of flirting, maybe some making out here and there and a lot of boy chasing after a girl.
And it's only up to us how we choose to live our life's.
And it's like a feeling of lightbulb going off in your head "I never thought of it that way".
In my case it was my teacher, long time ago.Characters and situations they were in was very believable and realistic, and hit way too close to home than I expected to.
Simply put, this book has everything that I look for in a contemporary romance novel.
I strongly recommend this novel!Cage's character was first introduced in Because of Low, the "predecessor" to While it Lasts.
Needless to say, I had high expectations going into this novel, and While it Lasts surpassed all of them.
I loved both of the main characters in this novel.
Girls, get ready to fall in love!Eva is an extremely lovable character with a heartbreaking back story.
Her character blossoms in this novel.
It's a sweet and sexy story that you MUST READ!
I absolutely knew that Cage was going to be special.
I remember sending Abbi a note while I read Because of Low asking (begging) if there would be a story about Cage.
See...Eva has had a very different life than Cage.
I loved seeing Cage's heart warm up to the possibility of trusting someone to love him.
As much as I loved seeing him fall in love, I was still happy to see that Cage's humor and some of the sexy cockiness wasn't lost.
There were times I wanted to yell at Eva and smack Cage upside the head.
