https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18749.Half_of_a_Yellow_Sun
It came to me as an epiphany as I barreled through the last few pages of this book, blanketed in my Sunday evening lethargy, marveling at Adichie's graceful evocation of a forgotten time and place and feeling the embarrassment of having known nothing about the Biafran war, that somewhere in the Gaza strip the maimed bodies of children must lie strewn amidst the debris of their former lives while vicious debates rage on twitter in which people pick a side - Israel or Hamas - to defend from criticism.
A few months ago I read Chinua Achebe’s autobiography, “There Was a Country”, which depicted Nigeria’s Biafran War (1967-1970).
It was hard to read about the Biafran war.
To think so many tribal wars occurred because of colonialists drawing arbitrary borders and also favouring one ethnic group over another (similar to what happened in Burundi and Rwanda).The stories of the five main characters; Ugwu, Olanna, Richard, Odenigbo and Kainene were also interesting, though some parts were quite reminiscent of a Nollywood (Nigerian movie industry) movie (affairs, evil women, desperation for babies, meddling mothers etc.)Since a lot of people consider Africa on the whole to be a homogeneous “country” where everyone speaks “African”, I’m hoping books like this will help show people that that’s not the case; even a country like Nigeria has so many tribes and cultures.
I’m really excited to read more from Adichie.
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie (born 1977) seemed to possess a magic wand that she was able to weave a story that was not supposed to be interesting for me: an Asian who have not been to Africa except seeing parts of that continent in the movies and reading Chinua Achebe’s Things Fall Apart.
He also got caught by the resulting transformations of the other four main characters as the secession brought out the best, but mostly worst, of their characters.In terms of its theme, this book may have some similarities with Chinua Achebe’s Things Fall Apart or Richard Koch’s The Year of Living Dangerously as both are stories of people caught and struggling with themselves amidst the change in the political power.

Instead they keep pounding their fists on a table and shouting out what their role is supposed to be: "I am a sardonic bitch.", "I am sooo non-racist you won't even believe it", "blah blah".Ouch!
Olanna leaves her parent's house to live with her boyfriend (does this count as a sacrifice?) and takes up a job.
Typically one can expect to see a transformation in someone who has lived through a war.
I am just going to live without knowing who all make it through the war.
"The world was silent when we died."This casual statement he once heard is used as the title of a book written by one of the characters in this novel, in which Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie chronicles the birth, short and tortured life and death of the State of Biafra: born on the 30th of May, 1967 from Nigeria and forcefully annexed back by the parent state, after a bitter war in which a million died, in January 1970.Most of us, I suspect, do not know about this short-lived country.
Really loved this book. Some of the characters were a bit bland and boring but it still kept me interested in them. Loved Igwu. Wish there was a book just about him.
Because of that atrocity Igbo clan has proclaimed independence of theirs own country named after Biafran Bay in the southeast of Nigeria (the problem was, as one of the characters said was the fact that Biafra has huge oil reserves).
Hundreds of thousands (perhaps millions) people died in the resulting famine.The story has been told through the lives of three very different people: Ugwu,13 year old boy from some remote village who is starting to work as a houseboy in the house of university professor with revolutionary aspirations.
When Chimanada Ngozi Adichie tells us that he travels to Lagos to attend a function in honour of the state funeral of Winston Churchill (perhaps no relation), I began to wonder if he was an early- (or indeed late) born radical Tory.
What sixties radical, given the inevitability of his assumption of a Cold War bifurcated paradigm to underpin his ideological position, would not have pondered and discussed this at length, even in bed?Eventually we also have to read along with continued adulation of Ojukwu.
Perhaps he had to be preserved to fight another day, as he eventually did, if in a different way, but surely no sixties radical would have left his role unquestioned.
They looked distinguished in their khaki uniforms, boots shining, half of a yellow sun sewn on their sleeves.”This story tracks a family as they transition from a position of influence and privilege with large, comfortable homes in Nigeria, to become citizens of the newly formed republic of Biafra.
I’d have liked a little glossary just because I enjoy languages, but I eventually recognised some and got enough of the gist not to mind.There are 520 languages spoken in Nigeria (Wikipedia, footnoted reference), and when people speak each other’s language, there may prejudice when an accent is noticed.
By next year, the country is in civil war, as the more Christian Igbo in the southeast chafe under military rule, and the novel begins its long descent into hell.
Of course the nation itself is a creation of British imperialism, but the intellectuals of Nigeria debate whether there is such a thing as 'black' which is more than 'not-white', as there are so many other identities out there - and in all of these different tribal/ethnic groups but still there is enough difference in the distribution and use of power that one resents and fears the other.What else is there to say about this book?
Literature, then, especially a lot of Western literary fiction, has distorted the 'true' Africa, whatever that may be.In her novel, Half of a Yellow Sun, Adichie works to break that mold, the stereotype of poor, starving, tribal Africans that Achebe, Wainaina, and others have attempted to break away from as well.
They do not fit the stereotypical mold expected in African literature, which is exactly what Adichie hopes to achieve.The plot was interesting for me mainly because I didn't even know about Biafra, the nation that lasted only barely 3 years in the 60's, before reading this novel.
I think if you are a fan of world literature, African literature, or strong character development driven books, you would enjoy this story.
هل تستطيع الكلمات أن تجعل الحياة أجمل وأكثر إنسانيةرواية عن تفاصيل الحياة والناس في نيجيريا فترة ستي
Who are the Igbo, the Hausa, and why does it matter now.”Let Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie tell you why this nation, the war, this story matters.
Half of a Yellow Sun—which takes its name from the emblem of Biafra—reveals a Nigeria that could have been, before it became a nation split by war.
The plot framework is built on the conflict between ethnic groups and political factions, but the story rises from the families and lovers separated by cultural, moral, and emotional borders.There is a slight dip and drag to the pace as we learn the depths of misunderstanding and animosity between the sisters, or witness the unraveling of the radical Odenigbo, or dip into Richard’s ingratiating attempts to be accepted by Nigerians.
Written by the character Okeoma who apparently is based on the real poet Christopher Okigbo.The World Was Silent When We DiedDid you see photos in sixty-eightOf Children with their hair becoming rust:Sickly patches nestled on those small heads,Then falling off, like rotten leaves on dust?Imagine children with arms like toothpicks,With footballs for bellies and skin stretched thin.It was kwashiorkor—difficult word,A word that was not quite ugly enough, a sin.You needn’t imagine.
For those readers, interested in Africa, this book illustrates what Colonialism and neo-colonialism is all about in an easy, compassionate read.Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie knows how to mix race, history, politics and family in this Nigerian saga in such a way that the reader is subtly conned into a narrative, filled with drama and suspense, where reality is presented with kindness, empathy and an almost brutal honesty, without realizing it at first.
خطاب شيق رشيق الفكر، سيعطيك لمحة عن طريقة تفكير هذا المرأة الفريدة:http://www.ted.com/talks/chimamanda_a...ذلك الخطاب شجعني على قراءة أحد أهم أعمال الكاتبة: نصف شمس مشرقة، رواية أقل مايقال عنها أنها ناضجة.
وعلى الرغم من أن الرواية خُلقت لتكون في صف جمهورية بيافرا، إلا أنها لم تتوان عن كشف حقائق لها علاقة بالفساد المستشري في أوساط مقاومة بيافرا نفسها.راودت الكاتبة موضوع الحرب بتأن وبصيرة.
أتمنى ان يقرأ خالد حسيني هذه الرواية ويتعلم ولو قليلا على هذا الصعيد.ما أعجبني أيضا هو التدرج في سيرورة الأحداث، حيث ينكشف الستار في مستهل الرواية عن أشخاص عاديين يعاقرون هموما ومشاكل يومية، ثم تبتلعهم دوامة الحرب فتصبح هي شغلهم الشاغل، وتقلب كل شيء، فتهين كم من عزيز وترضي كم من لئيم.
What is amazing about this novel is how Adichie creates a set of characters involved in regular domestic affairs (working, studying, falling in love, being in love, cheating or worried about cheating, finding an identity, growing up, just generally living, etc.
Subtle details that foreshadow and then recall key events that mark each phase of each character's decline as the war unfolds.So it is a domestic drama - very conventional - within a novel about a truly horrific series of events, with these almost surreal, grisly details shown to the reader through the eyes of these characters - privileged characters, for the most part.We see how their relative privilege declines - how society 'evens out' in a time of great deprivation.
At times poetic, dramatic (never melodramatic) at others prosaic (in a positive way) this is a very well written, well-constructed, unpredictable, absorbing and compelling book which is without doubt a ‘must read’.To my shame I knew very little about this war and period of Nigerian / Biafran history – I now at least have one fascinating perspective on the disturbing events and aftermath of this period.
4.5 stars for showing me how uneducated I was (am). Gonna cry now, thank you. Also, men are trash and that is all. TW - graphic violence, graphic rape, war
“The war would continue without them. Olanna exhaled, filled with the frothy rage. It was the very sense of being inconsequential that pushed her from extreme fear to extreme fury. She had to matter. She would no longer exist limply, waiting to die.”   Half of a Yellow Sun follows the lives of ordinary people in Nigeria during the 1960s; the time just before the Nigeria-Biafra war and during the war itself. It is an unflinching account of the tolls war takes on regular people. We see good peop
I loved these characters and at times I hated them, I hated what war did to them….I HATED THIS BOOK!!!
We see the romantic relationships of these characters in happier pre-war times; "This was love: a string of coincidences that gathered significance and became miracles."We see the closeness of the sisters, the education of Ugwu, we see the development of friendships, the daily on-goings of regular life but we are always keenly aware of the political unrest ticking away underneath the surface and when the massacres of the Igbo people in 1966 begin life for our main characters changes irrevocably.
Nigeria was formed by three distinct groups or tribes: the Igbo in the southeast, the Hausa in the north, and the Yoruba in the southwest.
The Hausa, fearing domination by the other Westernized groups, acquiesced only upon the condition that Nigeria remained divided into three distinct regions, the north having the clear majority.In 1966, an attempted coup by Igbo junior military officers resulted in the execution of major Hausa political leaders.
I'd be angrier about the old white men ubiquity of that shiny shiny shit for credibility if I thought it deserved her.Everyone knows the race question, the gender question, the power wielded through physiognomy and character definition, but few know how to deal with it.
Rare is the work which shows every character's flaws in an ugly world without ever declaring its citizens the same.
My incentives are helplessness and rage, my methods are writing and contextualization, and if recent misogynistic extremism fuels my efforts more than Adichie's prose, well.
Three voices for this story, three hearts cut by the grief of a war from which are all somewhat protected: Olanna by her familiy's wealth, Ugwu by the status and resources of his employers, and Richard by his whiteness and foreign-ness.
Olanna's sister Kainene and Richard are also shown to have this deeply felt ethical sense, and it is this quality that is missing from the people who are mocked and villified by their own words in Adichie's light: it is empathy here that divides the vile from the virtuous, not style, not charm.
Gostei mesmo, mesmo muito! Do estilo da autora, de ter ficado a saber muito mais sobre a Nigéria e sobretudo de personagens inesquecíveis. Obrigada, Ana (The Phoenix Flight)! Mesmo!Opinião em vídeo aqui (a partir do minuto 08:45):https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t7QFb...
This is the second book I've read by her and both times I'm just, like, the whole way through, I can't believe how fucking good this book is.
We're watching one of the greats create herself, and that's very exciting.For Half of a Yellow Sun, her second book, she reaches back to her parents' lives, into the catastrophic Biafran War of the 60s.
I still like Americanah just slightly better, but I wouldn't want to have to choose just one.Appendix: SoundtrackMusic is important to Adichie - she's one of the rare writers who can really talk about music - and here the soundtrack is the Nigerian Highlife genre, a brand of Afropop.
إذا فهذه إفريقيا (التى ننتمي إليها إسما فقط) , هى إفريقيا التى نادراً ما تقابلها أو تشاهدها أو حتى تسمع عنها .إفريقيا الساحرة , حقا إنها لساحرة , فهى المجتمع الغامض , الجامع لشتى الحضارات والثقافات والثروات الغنية فى خليط ممتع, ولسؤال الأهم , هل يستطيع عمل أدبى ما فى تقديم ذلك السحر ؟ هذا ما ستقابله فى هذا العمل الفريد.ببساطة : نيجيريا الستينات , بطائفيتها القبيحة المدمرة السافكة للدماء .
For example: "'He's one of these village houseboys,' one of the men said dismissively, and Ugwu looked at the man's face and murmured a curse about acute diarrhoea following him and all of his offspring for life."For the white, Western reader, HALF OF A YELLOW SUN is a gentle but persistent reminder that theirs is not the only valid point of view, that there is a whole other world out there full of very different but equally important cultures and perspectives.
The world has to know the truth of what is happening because they simply cannot remain silent while we die.  - Chimamanda Ngozi AdichieAdichie's novel illuminates the reality and disintegration of Nigerian life in wartime during the 1960s. The Biafran war waged between 1967-70 was Nigeria's politically and ethnically charged battle of North vs South, specifically the southeastern region, where the unsuccessful fight for secession left 1 million civilians dead. Half of a yellow sun describes the
Adichie's voice is powerful, genuine, resonant in the narrative of Biafra's painful victory and defeat; in the story of the resulting broken lives, and a country's blood -soaked odyssey.For, while the tale of how we suffer, and how we are delighted, and how we may triumph is never new, it must always be heard.
It is literary fiction, certainly, because this woman can write, but it is also history in the way it so thoroughly and thoughtfully illustrates the lives of all manner of different people during this horrible crisis.Like many children in the developed world, I grew up being told to eat what was on my plate, the image of the African child with its spindly arms and distended belly a present image to teach us to appreciate what we have.
