https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49824.The_Mammoth_Hunters
But when an author resorts to having her characters act like lobotomized chimpanzees in order to drive a plot that should have been wrapped up in no more than a chapter and probably more like a paragraph...I draw the line!After Ayla and Jondalar meet up with the Mamutoi, almost immediately, Ranec wants the Perfect, Majestic, Mother-Incarnate Ayla.
You could have had an interesting conflict with Jondalar being ashamed of Ayla living with the Clan and how his family would take it (that actually wasn't too bad).
You could have had some interesting stories just with Ayla and Jondalar living with the Mamutoi.
In the distant unknown , murky past ( no history books to tell their stories), during the era of the caveman , two groups of people struggle to survive in a cruel territory that someday the nation of Ukraine will be established ...our ancestors the Cro-Magnon man, the new arrivals from Africa, where the human race was born and the more primitive Neanderthals who have been in Europe for at least 200,000 years, never very numerous, short but quite powerful , very durable too and contrary to the modern view of them...intelligent, even speaking a language that will never be heard again.
After leaving Ayla's valley of horses at Jondalar's insistence they encounter a group of fierce Mammoth hunters...friendly though.
These books are good!
Very interesting, but I think they could be honed down a good bit.
(no pun intended)There was also a good bit of animosity and misunderstanding in this part of the story.
So with that said, and the story finally moving forward in its proper direction, I will proceed on to the next and even longer book in the series.
And even though my enthusiasm seems a bit subdued for my usual 5-star reads, all I can say is that it must be sheer exhaustion from my loss of sleep and emotional turmoil of getting through the book.
I have a huge Love hate relationship with these books. The author repeats herself over and over again; she treats the reader like they're stupid and cannot remember a thing. In fact I believe any good editor could cut these books down by hundreds of pages. Yet, this series is addicting. The first one is by far the best but be prepared to be sucked in - if you read the first you will want to read them all.
Aside from the love story being obnoxious, you half expect that Jondolar has reverted back to a child that has no idea how to verbalize emotions and handle stress and that Ayla is going to invent nuclear fusion any day now.I still enjoyed reading about how these people might have lived and survived in that time, but the long diatribes of the vegitation and land formations almost put me to sleep a few times and I found myself skimming over whole pages just to get past it.Although you know that in the end Ayla and Jondolar are going to end up back together again, you don't really expect it to be the VERY end, and when it finally happens, it seems so rushed that it overlooks many of the "problems" the author laid out before them.
The word "pleasure" is written with a capital P, and not only is the language used completely fatuous, and their activities are insipidly and repetitively formulaic.All this brings me to the supposed "love triangle" which apparently forms the main plot of this book.
Because Jondalar pulls back from her, Ayla thinks he doesn't love her anymore, and decides she'd better stick with Ranec even though she doesn't truly love him, because then at least she'll have someone who cares for her.And this "misunderstanding" rambles on for over 300 pages.
Worst of all, Ayla and Jondalar ALREADY went through the big misunderstanding plot line, where he thinks she doesn't love him, she thinks he doesn't love her, in the immediately previous book!
This book could have been much shorter and I probably would have enjoyed it more! Is she getting paid per word? ha. The characters became more weak and aggravating, their silly storylines were drawn on for far too long. Still, it was somewhat enjoyable, but I don't know if I want to continue reading this series (I'm taking a break!) ha.
Repeat history (telling) again and again and – turn page.
And that takes up a lot of the book.I hear often that authors should show, not tell, and after reading this book, glazing over and page turning past large sections of telling (often repeating what has been told before) I fully appreciate that advice.
Yes eventually becoming pet dogs of different breeds, but telling this as part of the story was unnecessary, because it is NOT part of this story.The magical colds are back again.
Someone please tell the author a cold is caused by a virus and they need to catch the virus from another person who has it or carries it.
1. The Clan of the Cave Bear ★★★★★2.
The Valley of Horses ★★★★★3.
The Mammoth Hunters ★★★★Oh this book drove me crazy!
This has one of the most emotionally trying love-triangles that I have ever encountered.
For 3/4 of the book I wanted to pull out my hair and slap a whole bunch of people.
I am glad that in the next book Ayla and Jondalar have left the Mamutoi.
I could not handle any more of that.
But I still love Ayla and Jondalar despite their cluelessness and I love this story so I am looking forward to book 4.
Absolutely loved this one again, she's keep[ing me super into this world and I've barely been reading other books becuase I've just been immersed into this world :)Ayla's story is once more continued in this book but now we have Jondalar accompanying her to integrate with new types of people and clans.
She knows she was raised unconventionally, but until the Summer gathering of the Mammoth Hunters she doesn't realise quite how different her way is...What I loved about this book was getting to see the way that Ayla integrated herself and her animals with the Lion camp.
DNF ties maždaug 50 puslapiu.Buvau išties nustebintas ir paliko tikrai nemažą įspūdį, kaip visai neblogas romanas su survival natom, su kultūriniais, istoriniais intarpais šioje knygoje per 50 puslapių sugebėjo degraduoti į banalų kas-ką-myli-ko-nemyli meilės trikampį, balansuojantį ant poprasčio YA lygio.Nuobodu ir nelabai įdomu. Ir labai vidutiniška. Atia, Aila. Nepasiilgsiu tavęs.
Ayla, inventing feminism, goes against the rules of the “Clan” and does a bunch of stuff women of the Clan are not supposed to do, like hunting and speaking her mind.This pisses off the next in line to be leader of the Clan, Broud (I think).
Then she adopts an orphaned Cave Lion (she orphaned it too!) and becomes the worlds first Siegfried, or maybe, Roy. But then she saves a man of the “others” from her Cave Lion named Baby, who turns out could have had a few more obedience classes.
….Boring.In “The Mammoth Hunters” it’s more of the same old great sex, with the addition of a black man to spice things up.
We had this au pair, an extremely smart girl who later became the editor of an architecture journal.
A friend who liked women's erotica lent her a copy of The Mammoth Hunters, assuring her that it was a good smutty read.
She made a face."Well," she said, "it's the first time I've ever read a book where I found myself skipping the sex scenes.
It's possible that I was unduly influenced by her dismissive judgment; but, sure enough, when I flipped through the book looking for a piece of sex (it didn't take long), the passage did seem to have an unpleasantly mechanical, formulaic character.
Due to my love of the previous two books, I am being generous giving this 3 stars, it is actually closer to 2 stars.
I love Ayla, the main character of this series but I am so sick of her being ABSOLUTELY INSTANTLY AMAZING at everything ever.
Anyway, I guess she is the destined one yada yada yada so all of that would be bearable except that the only conflict in this entire book was MISCOMMUNICATION.
The entire book could have been resolved if two people didn't misread blatently obvious signs and just said a couple of words to each other.
I'm sorry, but if you can invent new sex positions you should be able to tell your partner how you feel!
I couldn't wait for this book to be over because I got so freakin' tired of all the "he doesn't love me" "she doesn't love me" crap!
I wanted to shake Ayla and Jondalar and the author for going on and on and on and on about their unrequited love.
Either freakin' say "I love you" or move on!!!
Another thing I didn't like is that this book (and the previous one) had the most boring repetitive sex scenes.
This one didn't have as much sex as the last one but every time they started getting in to it I would just sigh and roll my eyes.
I was excited about getting into the third installment. It started out very well. Once again, you are learning about what life was like back in those days. There is quite a bit of details thrown in about how structures were built or certain rituals were held, just as in the first two books. I was a bit frustrated with the whole love thing between Ayla and Jondalar. I think it was taken a bit too far.
4th book read in 2013. Number 61 out of 296 on my all time book list.Follow the link below to see my video review:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c5QPbL...
It is also in this book that Ayla meets the Mamutoi and she realizes she has at last found her people, called the Others by the Clan of the Cave Bear who raised her.
Many of the women, however, dislike Ayla because she was raised by the people they call the Flatheads, who are greatly inferior.When I read this series, it was a long wait between each book (8 to 10 years each), yet I remember all of the books pretty clearly.
I really liked the first two books.
The second one was an interesting study of someone living alone.
During Valley of the Horses, Ayla's inventions and innovations started to stack up a bit and were starting to edge into the ridiculous.
Well, this book pushed her over the edge.
And the sex.
I was thoroughly sick of the blow-by-blow descriptions of sex.
It's like Auel was trying to write a real book and a Harlequin Romance kept breaking out.
I guess now that she's with her kind of people, Auel just can't make it interesting.
Kind of like Harry Turtledove.
And yes, I know I haven't reviewed the other books in the series yet, but this one really stuck out.
But in this book, both of the characters spend the whole time exhibiting the emotional maturity of twelve year olds.
I spent the entire book wanting to slap the crap out of both of them, while screaming "just talk to each other already!!" Most of the time, I really felt like both characters were purposefully taking what the other one was doing the wrong way.
Seeing Ayla act like this, after watching her being so strong and independent for two books was a really hard pill to swallow.

The 1st book in the 'Earth's Children' series, 'The Clan of the Cave Bear' is a frigging excellent book; one of my favorites, and a book that helped shape my love of studying history.
well, the series has ups and downs, to put it VERY mildly.
The history buff in me HAD to give it those 3 stars because of the intricate details and learning involved in Auel's story of Ayla- a homo sapiens girl raised by 'flatheads' (Neanderthals) during the Ice Age. After 2 books, she has now joined another clan, the Mammoth Hunters of the title.
However, this book felt like one of those 'place-holder' books in a series, you know?
It was so much better the original way - when you had to wait for each book to come out , waiting through the five or more year gaps!The repetitive nature is extremely annoying.
I swear she just copied and pasted some parts from the last book into this one without changing a word.The romance is actually a love triangle and a very very lame one(horrible word I know, but I can't think of one better) with the males characters weak, whinny and overly bedazzled by Ayla.
Απτην αρχή της γνωριμίας τους ο Τζονταλάρ με εκνεύριζε, ωστόσο το τέλος του βιβλίου με έκανε να θέλω να του δώσω μια ευκαιρία. Ίσως όντως η δοκιμασία να τον άλλαξε. Το 3ο βιβλίο της σειράς μ άρεσε ίσως ακόμα περισσότερο απο το πρώτο.
Μια ευχάριστη περιπέτεια η οποία επεκτείνεται σε τρία βιβλία.
The earth's children series, is an exceptional read on the early days of man, great cast of characters including the animals and plants, great hunts, and interactions between the different clans.
Okay, so I generally don't write reviews, because it takes me a lot of time that could be spent reading another book, but this time I NEED to address something that everyone forgets to address.I 'accepted' the awful normalization of rape in the first book because it fit in the way the society worked, but in this book, the Mamutois are supposed to be the 'nice' characters that are totally in for a woman's freedom regarding her body (Mamut himself tells Ayla that, when she (view spoiler)[explains she only bedded Ranec because he made the 'signal', and she was taught by the Clan that she should obey it (hide spoiler)]).Ranec was always my least favourite character, and not because he was Jondalar's rival, but because he was a fucking creep.
The interactions between the characters and the tension between Jondalar and Ayla was pretty believable, but also deeply frustrating.
When I'd read the book as a teenager, I'd been more annoyed than I was this time, as I saw the plot largely relying on the fact that characters weren't speaking to one another and communicating their feelings, letting a stupid misunderstanding drive the action.Re-reading it now, I realize there really was more to it than that and Auel masterfully handles this tension in a realistic way.
That and between book 2 and this book, the sex scenes were coming on so hard and fast that you had the feeling it was because she couldn't think of anything better to write.
Instead, in this book, Ms auel is at least ATTEMPTING to integrate detail reviews into the story line rather than simply dumping paragraphs from previous books on us yet again, and has begun developing some new characters...
although the repetitive nature of some of those with previous characters is a little annoying.Clearly, while a much better effort than her last two, this book is NOT on par with Clan of Cave Bear, although fans of Alya will be placated.
