https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95382.The_Pale_Horse
But I've re-read enough Christie in my adult life to know that sometimes she works well, sometimes less so.
'But if you've dealt with it successfully fifty-five times, you will manage to deal with it once again.''That's what I tell myself,' said Mrs. Oliver, 'over and over again, but every single time I can't believe it and so I'm in agony.'Really, the beginning bit of the story feels so clearly Christie commentary, that though the murder came along by page twenty, I was enjoying the digression and insight.
قائمة ببعض الأسماء يكتبها راهب تم. القاءها عليه من قبل سيدة على فراش الموت.هذه الأسماء اما لاناس ميتين او سيموتون .رائعة الحبكة حيث ان الظاهر ان سبب الموت تحضير الأرواح والشعوذة والسحر . ولكن بطل القصة يصر على معرفة الحقيقة وراء موتهم والطريقة التي يتم فيها قتلهم رواية جيدة جدا ولكن اعتقد ان مستواها اقل من باقي روايات أجاثا
Christie at her poisonous best. What sets apart this novel from her other writings is the development of the plot is not linear. There are interesting diversions to keep you glued till end with great deal of occult and witches in the plot. The inspiration for solving the murder appears to be too sudden. Mrs. Oliver without her friend Poirot manages to add that extra bit of fun and frolic.
"Evil is nothing superhuman".`As much as I love Poirot and Marple, there is something even more appealing to a Christie book with a totally unknown 'investigator'.
Mark Easterbrook senses all is not what it seems in a series of events that lead him to look into The Pale Horse.
Christie does her thing beautifully, leading us down one path while in fact going in a totally different way.
One always expect criminals, and 'witches', to appear grander than life, but as mentioned in the book, it is the ones who look totally ordinary that are the scariest.
Father Gorman is troubled by what she tells him and, on the way home, he scribbles a list of names she has given him and tucks it into his shoe.
Later, the list of names is found and the police are, obviously, interested in what linked them to the woman who so urgently required Father Gorman to visit her.Meanwhile, in the coffee bars of Chelsea (a setting that you feel Christie did not feel quite comfortable with), author Mark Easterbrook witnesses a cat fight between two girls.
Later, he discovers that one of the girls has died and that her name was on the list of names that Father Gorman had hidden.
Very thrilling and powerful read, and definitely my favourite non-Poirot or Marple mystery, hands down.
Definitely a tense and creepy affair; the atmosphere is very much like what I would imagine the dark streets of Whitechapel would be during the late 19th Century.
Mark Easterbrook is a loveable hero, intelligent and brave, and you can't help but be nervous and root for him at the same time as he plunges headlong into danger in order to solve the mystery.
This is probably the first time I liked her rather than finding her annoying!
A mystery which contains non of the Christie regulars (except Mrs. Oliver), which was surprisingly much better than I expected from the lukewarm first half.
The discovery made by Mrs. Oliver gives the vital clue for solving the mystery - interestingly, it was instrumental in saving a person's life also in the real world.(view spoiler)["In 1976, the year Agatha Christie died, a 19-month-old girl from Qatar was brought to Hammersmith Hospital, London, suffering from a mysterious disease.
When she reported this, doctors immediately tested for thallium, found it, changed the treatment and saved the girl's life.
(hide spoiler)]
Choose Your Own Adventure!And I looked, and behold a pale horse: and his name that sat on him was Death, and Hell followed with him. And power was given unto them over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword, and with hunger, and with death, and with the beasts of the earth.If you’ve decided that you’ve had your fill of dying, then choose http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...If you’ve decided that you’ve had enough of living, then choose http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
We follow a man named Mark Easterbrook who narrates the majority of the book.
Initially we don't exactly know what's going on, we just know that there are some deaths that are somehow linked to a place called "The Pale Horse." It took me til about the 20 percent mark to get really into the book.
Too bad for Father Gorman that someone ends up murdering the man, not realizing that he tucked the list of names into his shoe.
Her and Mark definitely realize something is up with The Pale Horse and refuse to just let the police do their investigation.I also liked how Christie did foreshadowing in this one.
3.5/5
Puikiai parašyta knyga, bet pabaiga nuvylė.
O detektyvo pabaiga neišvengiamai turi lemiamą žodį visam vertinimui.- viena žvaigždė už meilės istoriją.
Kad ir kaip mėgčiau Agatha Christie (labai), manęs meilės istorijos, įpainiotos į jos romanus, neįtikina.
Atrodo, lyg Christie atsitiktinai išsirinktų dvi figūrėles iš tokio margo ir įdomaus jos personažų pasaulio ir daužytų jas vieną į kitą sakydama: "Now kiss!".
Nu KODĖĖĖLL??- dar viena žvaigždė už tai, kad atspėjau žudiką, kas vėl be galo retai nutinka Christie romanuose.
Pats nužudymo būdas įmantrus ir puikus, bet už nuspėjamą žudiką turiu duoti minusą, nors ir plyšta širdis.
Remember the word : WickednessA Catholic priest is killed on his path home from giving the last ceremonies to a lady.
He has a list of names in his shoe of detached individuals who have all kicked the bucket resoundingly from normal causes.
Check Easterbrook witnesses battle between two lady in which the hair turns out in bunches without recognizable agony.
At that point there is the secretive Pale Horse Inn now shut and involved by three abnormal lady who broadcast to be witches and mystics.
What are the associations among these individuals that lead Mark and the police to presume murder yet how and why.
It’s his contention that rather than pushing up the weirdness so the sisters become something which could feasibly fit into a pantomime, they are instead portrayed as the kind of normal – if slightly sinister – old ladies who are frequently dismissed as witches in English country villages.
As apparently all English villages have witches (a fact which all country folk know), and it would just be more effective to use their type of gentle malevolence for the Wyrd sisters, rather than go over the top and be silly.‘The Pale Horse’ reads like Christie trying to do Dennis Wheatley and embrace supernatural horror.
I listened to the AudioBook and found it very intense during those witch scenes.
The mystery begins with the murder of a Catholic priest.
When Mark Easterbrook begins to look into this mystery because his godmother is on the list.
Mark was a great character.
I found the humor lovely, just as I usually do from Agatha Christie.
I liked it a lot.
I liked the character Ginger.
I loved that at the end, I had not guessed the correct suspect.
It is a really wonderful book that I had missed reading when I was reading a lot of Agatha Christie.
Loved loved loved this! Read by the inestimable Hugh Fraser (aka Captain Hastings), which is quite delightful, despite the lack of Hastings or Poirot in the story. It has murder, it has mystery, supernatural seances, and even a bit of romance. A great stand alone tale that shows why Christie was the master (or mistress) of mysteries.
I was quite happy with this one.
I like that Christie never takes herself too seriously.
One of her characters was an author of mysteries, who was having writer's block.
She and the protag, Mark, talked about the three witches in Macbeth and how they should be portrayed as regular women, not so over-the-top ugly cackling witches.
Christie goes on to introduce three women, all pretty average, who have a reputation in their small village as witches.
I was very happy with the whole murder scenario.
I figured it out before the characters, but not much before.
However the conclusion here would shatter what the likes of me would have hitherto been led to believe: so a white, western writer can write so convincingly about the true powers of “juju” (occult) !Agatha Christie is (was) of course a down to earth western writer, and at the end she coolly and rationally explains the events of this work which one could have sworn could only have been due to supernatural means.
Hence I find this work instructive and relevant to we Africans, no matter how educated, who even till date tend to “explain” simple occurrences like footballing skill, talent, results; and even illnesses/ailments – by strongly alluding to the occult and the supernatural.
A standalone Christie (though Mrs Oliver makes some cameo appearances) which mingles 1960s Chelsea with witchcraft and an ingenious means of death. Only Christie could have pulled off the last minute sleight of hand - and all the clues are in plain sight. Clever, if not one of her best.
An entertaining, late (1961) Christie. Not great, but Dame Christie never wrote a bad book, imo. And I like Mrs. Oliver, described in the "Cast of Characters" here as 'A charming but muddled mystery writer, she often confused fact with fiction to the advantage of both.' In other words, Christie's voice is clear as a bell: she is, after all, a dear friend of Mrs. Oliver: the person Agatha knows best in the real world. And apples everywhere!
Agatha Christie does not disappoint.This mystery novel follows characters on their path to solve the deaths of various seemingly unrelated people.
There is a little romance thrown towards the end which is unusual for an Agatha Christie novel I think.(view spoiler)[ Initially I thought maybe it was a story within a story concept.
The randomness of these diagnosis probably stems from the fact that medical science was not very advanced thereby confirming my opinion of the time period the story is set in.The confrontation leading to Osborne's guilt coming to light took me by surprise.I thought I had it all figured out by then.
Today is Friday May 13th (2016) and this is the 13th Agatha Christie novel I’ve read.
I enjoy her books, her style, although I’ve often found her plots too convoluted and contrived.
However, when she is good, she’s really good – I’m thinking of “And Then There Were None” and “Murder on the Orient Express.” “The Pale Horse” is the best of all I’ve read so far.
The plot is ingenious.
The characters are familiar to Christie fans, and yet they are not her usual star players Hercule Poirot and Miss.
This book fooled me.
This novel was great fun.
Ad indagare su questo caso non ci sono solo un ispettore di polizia ed un medico legale, ma anche uno scrittore, una restauratrice, un annoiato farmacista in pensione, un’altra scrittrice. Be’, con tanto dispiegamento di forze è evidente che si arriverà in fretta al colpevole…O forse, visto che in questo romanzo sono coinvolte forze oscure, magia nera e streghe, la faccenda rischia di essere più complicata del previsto?
Great mystery, even though there is no sign of Miss Marple.
The Pale Horse is a pub in London and named after Revelation 6:8, where it is ridden by Death.
I’m usually a fan of the typical detective story (Hercule Poirot or Miss Marple) but this is one of the few where it was actually refreshing to have a “normal” person investigate the case.
However, I’m not a fan of the fact that the male hobby detective always seems to end up in a relationship with his pretty female sidekick and wish that the women were portrayed as stronger characters but this just speaks to the time these novels were written in.Overall another solid mystery and I will keep enjoying Christie’s work!
*My rating would have been 2.5 stars or maybe 3 stars but was lowered for content*Okay.
I rated this book 1 star mainly because of content (more on that below) but also because, I just didn't super enjoy the book.
I don't know if I didn't like the idea or the content made it seem not so good for me, but whatever the reason, I just wasn't into it.I didn't really relate to the characters either, so that could be it too.Content Guide...-Many, many mentions of witchcraft, town witches, and magic in this book.
Overall, I did not like it.
Rating 1 star.
(I did guess at one part of the ending and got it right.)Two, another takeaway from the book, which has totally nothing at all to do with the story, characters, mood, theme, tension, etc: I am totally surprised that so much of what was going on in 1961 resembles today's world when it comes to fashion.
Okay, when going out, you see very dressed up people and men wearing hats, and women in fabulous coats, etc., and yet among the young of the time and in the early 60's it's early rock and the remains of the beat generations, you see jeans and shirts and jeans and sweatshirts and jeans and 'jumpers.' What happened?
I am amused that The Pale Horse is listed on Goodreads as "by Agatha Christie, forward by Mark Easterbrook"...apparently someone failed to realize that Mark is in fact a creation of Dame Christie's fertile imagination??
At any rate, he is an engaging narrator; I don't always know why Christie chooses to use first-person narration for non-series books (obviously, many of the Poirot cases are narrated by 'mon ami Hastings' and The Murder of Roger Ackroyd could have been narrated in no other way).
I wonder if Mark is related to Colonel and Mrs. Easterbrook of A Murder is Announced, or if Christie just liked that surname?This is an unusual but quite excellent novel.
Christie's literary alter-ego, mystery novelist Ariadne Oliver, makes an appearance here (she's a friend of the novel's narrator, Mark Easterbrook) - Mrs. Oliver was replaced by Miss Marple in the most recent TV adaptation (a previous version in 1997 also eliminated Mrs. Oliver and had Easterbrook as a suspect in the murder of the priest that sets the story in motion, which isn't the case in the book).

I don't know who in GR decided to set up a "series" for Mrs. Oliver because she's just a secondary character in several of Dame Christie's books.
They wouldn't have done it without Mr. Easterbrook because he was the impetus for the whole thing to be investigated from the beginning (and he figured out a vital clue) but they were still the ones who figured out who was the bad guy.The book has a few plot holes - I don't know if I didn't pay enough attention but it wasn't clear to me how the murderer figured out the business of the priest.
