https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/256683.City_of_Bones
I've moved past Cassandra Clare and while I maintain that this book is a blatant rip off of about 1000 other books (and while a lot of you insist that she's an original author, like it or not, she does have a history with plagiarism/bad behavior), I haven't read any of her new stuff so I can't tell you if she's continued to toe the line with plagiarism or write poorly.
I can only guess that after writing almost a million words of Harry Potter fan fiction, a bunch of people sucking your e-cock for stealing whole paragraphs from books and quotes from Buffy simply wasn't enough.
It makes the History of Sexuality seem amazingly interesting and colourful.To be fair to Ms. Clare, I was not actually "reading" her novel so much as listening to the Audiobook.
So there's only you left to be fair to now.And in order to do that, I have to admit that I wasn't EXPECTING to like this book.
And I think, because she was really just redressing her old characters, she didn't even both to give them any growth in this story.To be honest, I didn't read far because the writing was boring (oh my lord, the similes!
Clare constructed a vivid, believable parallel world with great characters, punchy dialogue, and a winning mix of humor, pathos and action.
I like her take on warlocks, vampires, and werewolves, and of course I’m a big fan or urban fantasy, where these fantastic elements mix into the regular gritty city life of New York.
Clary Fray is a sympathetic protagonist, though I was equally drawn to the supporting cast.
I especially like that the villains are believably three-dimensional.
Even when you do not support them, you understand what motivates them.
"City of Bones" is one of those books that all my female friends and fellow readers simply love, Jace-mania all around.
As an example, let's take a "stele." After finishing this book, I still have no idea what exactly it does - do you only write runes with it?
Although I know how Jace/Clary "family matter" is resolved in the end, I don't find possibly incestuous relationships appealing.This review might make it seem like COB is the worst book ever written.
But was COB the most blatantly unoriginal book I've ever read?
Lots of opinions means there is lots of things to say...Ok so I was practically splitting my head open thinking of what exactly I wanted to say about this book.
The story is full of action and yes sometimes there are things added for dramatic effect, but isn't that the point?
(insert some break dancing moves I personally cannot do here) I think some people didn't get that guessing the twists is all part of the experience.Some people claimed all of this to be fluff but I don't agree.
I'm hoping to see more evilness in him in the next book.Well I think I've said enough.
we been knew
19 Apr '16 Bet you're sick of my updates, now.Just for reference, on the recent Sherrilyn Kenyon v Cassandra Clare.Kenyon has filed a lawsuit against Clare, and also provides a list of alleged similarities between Clare's work to her own.Read and decide for yourself. 15 Jun '13 update again! Saw some stills for the movie, and to be honest, despite being slightly spurious in my "casting" of City of Bones, I actually think my version is much better than the movie version.I mean, look at Isabelle,
And the delight I should have felt at finding money just wasn't there.These funny bits of dialogues and scenes filled me with just as much inner turmoil as my five-dollar-note dilemma, and even though I know that maybe, perhaps, it could be that these are all Cassandra Clare's own words, I still couldn't shake off the icky suspicions out off my gut - did she "draw inspiration" from some other unknown source, here?In the end, it just ravaged me with too much guilt and suspicions that what originally would have been a five-star scene was reduced down to three stars and a really, really sad face.Also a part of the inconsistent writing, was the 
I've also read countless reviews, both adoring and loathing and have come to the conclusion that this book does not garner any type of middle ground, you either love it or you hate it.
What else can I say?[image error]For me, this book shines, and to those of you who loved it, I imagine you are a bit like me.
I felt as though I were in the story with them as opposed to merely following along in their journey.Regardless of the types of books you prefer to read, or the characters that endear themselves to your heart, I think we all read to for some type of enjoyment.
“Shadowhunters: Looking Better in Black Than the Widows of our Enemies Since 1234.”  I read City of Bones for the first time 5 years ago. I still remember that day. The sun was shining, the birds were singing It was during my first semester in Law School and I had to study History of Law, which was a complete waste of time because seriously, who is ever going to ask me whether women in Byzantium could get a divorce? (In case you are wondering, they could only if the husband was impotent or pos
Aaanyway, I wanted a break and I grabbed this beautiful book and started reading until I finished it, bleary-eyed, disoriented and obsessed.
A nerd, a heartbreaker, a jealous friend, a warlock who loves glitter, a werewolf, an artist and a gorgeous warrior introduce you to a world of magic, where nightmares come true, truths are revealed and decisions have to be made.
You will fall in love with him and swoon and want to have his babies but you're in for disappointment.
Much to the chagrin of her best friend Simon, and Jaces' hunter brother Alex.She learns years ago a charasamitic, powerful, and high ranking Shadow Hunter, called Valentine created his own circle to cleanse the world of all demonic blood.
Clary must learn of the ways of the shadow hunters if she is help her friends stop Valentine.Great story, good drama, the characters are ok, the only failing I found in the book were the fight scenes.
funny...No, Cassandra Clare would rather focus on something else: a sideplot where Ripoff Ginny Weasley believes Hot Draco Malfoy is her brother for two fucking books.
It honestly feels like an entire book jacking off to the thought of Draco Malfoy’s bare chest.
I'm picturing it on fanfiction.net with the description m/m blood drinking kink erotica don't like don't read!!!VERDICT: This book is terrible.
Maybe just skip to book two if you genuinely want to read the series [listen, I like The Infernal Devices].
While very teen oriented, City of Bones still had a classic feel that surpassed barriers of age and gender, and I have heard from many folks that they wish they had found these books while they were still a young, gay teen, as this book was before it's time in it's courageous attempt to feature a homosexual couple before it was popular to do so.
Obviously this series features all types of supernatural creatures, but I like how Clare gave a feel of placing multiple religious/mythical/world views into a giant mashup that became her own.
Pure and utter crap. I wish there were ways to give negative stars. I certainly want the time from my life back. I would compare its writing quality to a fanzine, except that comparison wouldn't be fair to fanzines. But I swear to God, it took every single bad fanfic writing cliche and published them. What were her publishers thinking??? Where was her editor?? It was horrible. I would dearly love for a fanfiction author to make good and become a published writer, but I'd prefer one with talent, thanks.
The Mortal Instruments changed the way I looked a fantasy novels. I am a huge fan now. I defiantly recommend this book for any hunger games, divergent, harry potter, and twilight fans out there. It is truly a fantastic series.
“You're an idiot.""I've never claimed to be otherwise.” Clary Fray goes to one little party with her best friend (Simon)...and there's a teeny-tiny littler repercussion by way of her life being absolutely and irrevocably ruined. She witnesses an unusual boy being led to the back by figures cloaked in black, brandishing knives. Curious, she decides to investigate...and stumbles upon an exorcism.The Shadowhunters are just as surprised as she is - mostly because the only people who can see Shadowh
Clary Fray goes to one little party with her best friend (Simon)...and there's a teeny-tiny littler repercussion by way of her life being absolutely and irrevocably ruined.
And so, with much trepedation (and sass) she forces herself into their world...and discovers there's quite a few things she's never thought were possible.Okay, I really, really enjoyed this one....until we got to the twist at the end.
(view spoiler)[ Where we find out that Jace might be Clary's long-dead-brother?
I had to do it.
We get treated to a book with complete character development stasis despite being nearly five hundred pages long.When our insipid protagonist, Clary discovers, after meeting a group of mysterious strangers, that there is a whole world of monsters and fae that she was previous unaware of.
She never grows as a character and despite this book being the first of a trilogy I think it is fair to expect your lead protagonist to at least evolve a wee bit they discover the things that Clary does.Oh wait...WAIT!
2.6/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐“Sarcasm is the last refuge of the imaginatively bankrupt.”This book didn't leave a good taste in my mouth. Basically, it left no taste in my mouth. Or if it left a taste, it was like water taste. It didn't exist. But let's talk a bit about my history with the Shadowhunter world. But first the plot in italics cause we're classy as fuck.When fifteen-year-old Clary Fray heads out to the Pandemonium Club in New York City, she hardly expects to witness a murder― much less a murder c
But first the plot in italics cause we're classy as fuck.When fifteen-year-old Clary Fray heads out to the Pandemonium Club in New York City, she hardly expects to witness a murder― much less a murder committed by three teenagers covered with strange tattoos and brandishing bizarre weapons.
Basically, the reason I think the book seemed childish to me was that we were seeing things from Clary's POV.
Characters like Izzy, Magnus and Alec, who have been my favorites for years because of the tv show, felt so distasteful to me!
I don't think I will ever like these two characters.
“Where there is love, there is often also hate. They can exist side by side.”  Hi, my name is Melanie, and I’m the last person on this planet to read anything by Cassie Clare! But I had too many best friends who promised me that reading this series would be worth it for me to finally get to Lady Midnight! Well, the other night I did an Instagram poll, because I wanted something fae and I was just going to pick up Lady Midnight, without reading any of Cassie’s other work, and some of my friends
And this is the story of how I got roped into finally reading City of Bones in 2018.Again, I’m the last person to read this, but City of Bones starts off with a young girl named Clary, and her and her friend, Simon, are in line for a teen club.
I will say the end there was a villain that maybe did the things he did because of his love for another man that I wish wasn’t in the book, but it didn’t erase the good Cassie did with the other two characters.
Well, 1) you need to know that, at that time, I wasn’t reading English books just yet (that came a couple of months later) and 2) some of the French editions look horrible (view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)] and those are the ones my library owned.
I know what you’re going to say, ‘‘Why do you always have to bring that series up, can’t you just leave it alone for a review?!’’ But the truth is, Captive Prince is one of the main reasons why I decided to re-read The Mortal Instruments.
But, at the same time, it does not have such a significant learning disability that it needs to sit in a separate classroom from the other stories; it just has this confluence of creepiness and then some kind of mild mental challenge.
One day, he started leaving notes in my locker on notebook paper in a child’s scrawl, asking things like, “If I’m sad, can I have a hug?” He found out where all of my classes were and would be waiting outside them when the bell rang.
I mean the book literally says that Leia says, “I know.” If you’re going to SWF a story, at least get it right.
She borrowed so heavily from Buffy, Harry Potter, and Star Wars that it sticks out like a sore thumb.
It reads like altered fan fiction.
Cobbled fan fiction that has no cohesion.I knew Clare as Cassandra Claire from Harry Potter fandom, I will admit, and that did color somewhat.
And people have repeatedly mentioned Sirius's flying motorcycle, which has been labeled a "demon motorcycle." That kinda reminded me of Anne Bishop's book Sebastian, which I put down to read City of Bones, because of the fact she has motorcycles that are run by demons, not for them.
After all, I didn't spend money, so I would have been more willing to read the book.
Their stories are all really interesting, and I’m really excited to see their development again.
She slaps her love interest twice for not agreeing with his actions-- and granted, I understand why they were fighting, but it comes across like the only way Clary can defend her position is physical violence.
My favorite example of this is when Isabelle dares to wear vanilla perfume of all things, and Clary has this whole internal rant about “girls who wear vanilla perfume” and how she just can’t fathom “why they want to smell like cupcakes.” She then judges their ‘daintiness,’ which is ridiculous because we all know Isabelle could kick every-square-inch of Clary’s ass.
There’s more examples of this, including with female characters Clary doesn’t even know.
3 starsAfter so many years of trying to read this, I finally finished it.See, I think the story has so much potential, and I like it, but I can't stand the characters at all. Clary is so annoying, and I just can't connect with Jace at all. For now, I will put this series on hold.Was it worth reading? - Kinda.Would I read it again? - Hardly.Would I recommend it? - Depends on the person.
I remember reading City of Bones, but I think I stopped midway because I realized that a movie had been made of it, so I watched the film instead.
This book focuses on her research for her true identity and also on her feeling towards Jace.City of Bones also contains numerous themes and it focuses on matters regarding discrimination based on race and sexual orientation.When I watched the film for the first time, I was more drawn to the actors than the actual film.
It was hard seeing him play such a geeky likable character because I used to watch Misfits which Robert acted in, and seeing him in this film was really weird.
Update to come (I'm doing my spring cleaning late this year).
*Spoilers yeah*I’m going to say this now so it’s out of the way.No.I’ve never read the Draco Trilogy by Cassandra Claire on fanfiction.net.No.I have no right to mention the plagiarism event around the Draco Trilogy in this review, because I have not read it, and so I will not go into the plagiarism event.Yes.I know of the plagiarism, and I find it despicable, but I’m not reviewing that, I’m reviewing City of Bones.THE CITY OF BONES REREAD WITH PALICE AND GHIRARDELLIIt started EPIC, then tapered to a molasses read but who really cares.
What I remember after that first read was Clary, Jace, Alec, Isabelle, Abbadon, the Star Wars copycat sibling scene, and Jocelyn still being in a coma.
I’ll admit that there are a few moments where the descriptions of certain areas are vivid and near perfectEx: When Clary finds Jace with Valentine.
Alex Pettyfer Updatehttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mSgEwl...***OBSCENE ALERT*** Note: I will fucking kill the Casting Director if Alex Pettyfer,  the man of my erotic dreams and fantasies*coughs* will not be cast as Jace Wayland! Seriously I don't care if he has a British accent and he already have Beastly, I am Number Four and Torment movies for 2011, I don't freaking care! He need to be Jace Wayland and Peeta Mellark! All I want in my life right now is HIM HIM HIM!!! Kyaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!
The characters are very cool, of course there is Clary despite of being a damsel in distress all the time is surprisingly not annoying, she handles herself well at least and I love her sarcasm, wit and love the fact that she was good in drawing.
Jace and Clary in the end learned the truth that they are indeed brother and sister and their father is Valentine.
#1 City of Bones ★★★★☆#2 City of Ashes ★★★☆☆#3 City of Glass ★★★★☆#4 City of Fallen Angels ★★★★★#5 City of Lost Souls ★★★★★#6 City of Heavenly Fire I know I’m slow to pick up this series, but I honestly spent several years of my life thinking that Cassandra Clare’s books didn’t hold anything special in store for me.
I don’t feel like I got to know either of the Lightwood kids very well in this installment, but I definitely felt like their characters were set up well enough to make me excited to spend more time with them in the future.
If Sherlock Holmes' Attic Theory is to be believed, that this book is taking up valuable space I can use for my writing and better books.Let me start with the characters since they're probably the most appalling aspect.Clary: This little lovely is a fifteen/sixteen year old red-head who loves her sketchbook and doesn't think she's pretty.
Clary is one of the angriest, self-absorbed, whiniest little brats I've ever had the displeasure of getting to know.I've read my share of female protagonists who go down like cheap alcohol; they put up a fight and don't agree once you think you've stomached them.
