https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2915975-the-ice-palace
3.5 Im reading a non fiction book called The Gatsby Affair, and felt compelled to read a short story by Fitzgerald.
I have many books of shorts in my house, and after locating this one, I chose the story The Ice Palace.
It is so darn hot here again, the title called to me.
In another book coincidence this story almost perfectly with where is was in the non fiction book.
Much to their dismay, she is engaged and in love with a Northerner.
She loves to swim, dance, always in motion.
I enjoyed this little sample of book coincidence.
The story reflects the tension that remained between North and South U.S. many years after the war.
My favorite part showed tension building up between the two as the guy made mean comments about Southerners and made her mad.
I liked seeing her mad because she seemed so pacifistic, and, in all honesty, kind of dumb.
For me, it was a happy ending.
I love when people stop running from themselves and instead embrace who they really are.
The populous may want you to be a certain way, but you won't be happy until you embrace you and who/ what you are rather than letting the world fit you in its mold.
The story was beautifully written, the theme isn't common as well, it's about this young lady who thought she could easily change her home, and get used to another one, but she found out she was wrong, with all the differences, between her the Southern young lady, and her fiancé the Northern young man.
The story is about a girl who feels that she'll be stuck if she continues to live in the south and moves on to the north with a boy she thinks she is in love with..
Stuck in the ice palace, which might be the symbol of the ice-cold nature of the people there, for sometime she realizes this is no place for her to be.
And the difference between the frankness of the south and pretentious nature of the north couldn't have made more obvious..
We might enjoy taking out breath and the way breath escapes our nose more after reading this story..
For me, plot line is secondary with Fitzgerald because I just get lost in his words. His prose is beautiful. It's that simple.
Fitzgerald is surprisingly good when his main character is a woman, it takes him farther away from his own head, I suppose. Though his prose is always perfect as far as I'm concerned, his tendency to write the same story over and over can get tiresome, and thankfully this was not the case here. The Ice Palace is a story about a southern girl, warm and vivacious, who thinks she has to get away from it all and go North. The winter and the cold personalities she finds there lead her to question that. Extra points for being surprisingly feminist.
3.5 უფრო ეკუთვნის.ფიცჯერალდს კარგად აქვს გადმოცემული იმ პერიოდის ამერიკის ურთიერთდამოკიდებულება ჩრდილოეთსა და სამხრეთს შორის. სასიამოვნო იყო აგრეთვე ბუნებაც, რომელიც გადამღლელი და მომაბეზრებელი არ იყო. ხოლო ის თავი როდესაც სალი ქეროლი ლაბირინთში მოხვდება, მიუხედავად იმისა რომ ეს ეპიზოდი რამდენიმე გვერდს გრძელდება, ბევრ ემოციას აღძრავს და დიდ ვნებათა ღელვაში გითრევს.
I think I’m just not a fan of Fitzgerald. I thought I was going to like this one (and it was way better than The Great Gatsby imho) but then... *shrug* I’m just not a fan.
This may be a little premature to say, but I feel I connect with Sally so much; with her ambition, her melancholy about leaving her loved ones behind, her hunger for something more than small town life, even if the summer days are half as beautiful as Fitz describes them.
I hope good things come to her.
That's the trouble the having great expectations of things.
I still hope that she will be happy.3.
I was being very idealistic, but the ending was beautiful.
This whole story was beautiful.
Nice short story! Beautiful snowy images
Great descriptive writing - beautiful and concise. The heroine is juvenile and unlikable.
Fitzgerald's "The Ice Palace," shares dark romantic tropes and its theme is much like Poe's, "The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket;" both stories see their main characters leave the comfort of their home to dip and rise from the unconscious and consciousness.
The conscious is enlightenment, materialism, and in "The Ice Palace" is shown through upper social class.
They look down at southerners as uneducated.
They have books that appear to never have been open but are used to show their sophistication, unlike the battered books Sally remembers in her southern library.
Part of me wanted to give this two stars, but I liked it better than a book that I recently rated 2 stars, so I had to go up.
This is part of a Christmas collection I'm listening to.
I was worried about what I would get from F.
Scott Fitzgerald when it came to a Christmas type story.
This one was just a winter story, but it wasn't the feel-good type of stories I have been enjoying in the collection.
In the end, I mostly just wondered what his point was with the story.
The ending was just a little too abrupt for me.
I cried my eyes out because I can relate to Sally-Carol all too well... like S-C, I was hyphenated, Bonnie-Jean, like S-C, I loathe being cold (it snowed today in Alberta Canada, Sept 12th)! Like Sally-Carol, I left my sleepy town to pursue adventure in an Ibsenesque city... I also shudder at the idea of snow on my grave and I also love the heat, good manners, Southern Charm and interesting personalities....
Being from the South and moving closer to the North I can totally understand the whole idea behind this book. I can also see that she was wanting to do what was expected of her and when she did she was unhappy. If she would have just done what her heart wanted she wouldn't have had to pretend to be anyone but herself.
Както винаги, наслада за душата. Обичам Фитцджералд и неговия модернизъм. Разкази писани преди близо 100 години с общовалидни истини и изводи за живота, актуални и днес. Прекрасно, просто прекрасно!
I actually really enjoyed being assigned this story for class. It spoke to me more personally than the other ones.
تتحدث القصة عن شخصية قروية تعيش صراعاً داخلياً ، يسكنها جانبان القروي الخامل المسالم البسيط و و الجانب المفعم الحياة .ببساطة و عفوية تعبر سالي ان كل ما تريده هو ما تنتفع به عندما يحين ذلك الوقت الذي تعود فيه جميلة كما كانت.
تنتقل سالي من الجنوب الزراعي إلى الشمال حيث المدنية و الحضارة و تصطدم حينها بالحياة في الجانب الآخر " فالحياة ليست كما تتوقعها و الأمور تتكشف حين إذا تنظر إليها عن كثب .
She was from the South and Clark was from the North.
When going to an event in the North, Carrol notice the things that people were saying about the Southerners.
Clark describe the Southerners as lazy and useless people.
Carrol kept saying that she wanted to go home and Harry said that "Tomorrow...
tomorrow" This story is about the North and the South.
The South is full of sunshine and the North is full of snow and cold wind.
It seems that Harry would of killed himself if he had never found Carrol.
Esta é uma curta história sobre a nossa inclinação para querer mais sem dar valor ao que já temos; de nunca nos considerarmos satisfeitos e de continuarmos a desejar aquilo que nos é, afinal de contas, desconhecido.
E se é verdade que esta característica nos pode levar mais longe e promove a evolução nas nossas vidas também é verdade que, tal como Sally, acabamos muitas vezes desiludidos com que aquilo que passámos tanto tempo a ambicionar.Sally precisou afastar-se do que tinha para lhe começar a dar valor; F.
Scott Fitzgerald não podia ter tornado as diferenças mais óbvias, comparando pontos cardeais opostos onde se desenrolam estilos de vida muito divergentes.…É muito simples - às vezes já temos aquilo que realmente precisamos para ser felizes.
Freckling shadows here and there intensify/the sunlight/like golden paint/people's dreams/ they fasten on to things/she had compassion for the souls shut in. Waiting for spring/ the cemetery was a favorite haunt/ a sunny pleasure dome with caves of ice-frozen hearts/ body and soul-tears freeze/ she kissed him until the sky seemed to fade out and all her smiles and tears vanished into an ecstasy Of eternal sounds/ blurred rays converging-- two birds making a great to-do--
I have dozens left to read, but "The Ice Palace" is my favorite so far. Fitzgerald's style forcefully boasts of its superiority with a sympathetic tone for the Southern spirit. The culture of the North is a rudely industrial and lifeless character compared to the lackadaisical yet spirited character of the South. The climax is unmercifully chilling but the resolution brings a spring thaw to a sweltering summer daze.
Its a F. Scott Fitzgetald short story, so of course there is some great descriptions and lines. The story focuses on the main female character, a young southern belle, who is preparing to marry a northerner. She is a little dim-witted and naive looking to be taken care and taken away to a place more exciting than her current home. When she visits the north, she feels out of place and lonely, and soon realizes that maybe home isn't so bad after all.
I listened to this story this afternoon. It's short but boring. I've never really read the great F. Scott Fitzgerald since high school when we were assigned the book The Great Gatsby. I barely remember it. I just remember being bored. I guess the great F. Scott Fitzgerald is great to most of the world but not me! I hate to give a literary giant 2 stars but this book is a yawn for me.
Another Fitzgerald story but this one hasn't much of a plot... A young southern girl called Sally Carol is engaged to a northern guy called Harry, Harry invites Sally to spend a month up north and its during this time that she sort of develops some second thoughts about their getting married...
I love F Scot Fitzgerald, and this is my favourite of his short stories so far. There are definite links to The Great Gatsby, which makes it even better. The language use, as always, was brilliant as well.
A pretty solid read but not a favorite of mine.For my full review of F. Scott Fitzgerald's short stories and more, check it out here.
Kind of boring to read, so I made my google browser widget read it to me, works better that way. I was able to comprehend a whole lot more that way. Not one of his better stories in my opinion. The Great Gatsby was a lot better than this short story for sure.
I didn't enjoy Fitzgerald in high school, and this story did not make me feel any different. The dryness of the narration was so off-putting that it made me not want to finish. If this wasn't an assignment for school, I would have dropped it after the first 3 pages.
I had a vague idea of what this story was about, but had never read any of it. I wouldn't say it's in my top favorites from Fitzgerald, but it was still an interesting story with a dark turn or two, so I enjoyed it.
