https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27035.The_Early_Church
This is the first volume of the penguin history of the church and not the beginning of a history of Christianity.
In the absence of a creed, a canon of agreed genuine holy books there is only tradition which Chadwick believes was unitary.
Early Christianity for Chadwick is not a wide field full of people adapting popular and occasionally written traditions about Jesus, increasingly ignorant of his Jewish background in the context of the religious and philosophical environment of the Mediterranean world but rather the doughty defence of Orthodoxy against the wrong-headed even before Orthodoxy ever existed.
A fairly one sided look at the early western church4 March 2013 The problem with the time period that Chadwick is writing about here is that the main source that we rely upon is Eusebius, and many people are somewhat concerned about his objectively in relation to the church prior to it becoming the official religion of the Roman Empire. It is not that we do not have many primary sources, we have quite a lot, but most of them deal with how one should conduct themselves as a Christian, or how a ch
A fairly one sided look at the early western church4 March 2013	The problem with the time period that Chadwick is writing about here is that the main source that we rely upon is Eusebius, and many people are somewhat concerned about his objectively in relation to the church prior to it becoming the official religion of the Roman Empire.
Eusebius was a Roman bishop who pretty much came to fame after Constantine 'converted' to Christianity, though the reasons behind his conversion are dubious at best.
As I read and learned, I realized I was especially drawn to the Alexandrian tradition, which believed that the purpose of Christ's life was to teach 'deification' to his followers, ie how to become a god-man like himself.
I enjoyed Chadwick's book, learned a lot, and was happy to 'graduate' to Peter Brown who covers the same territory but with a much less biased perspective, more historical and capable of giving everyone their due without the need for judgement of any kind.
Chadwick's history of the early church is widely regarded as the standard work on the subject, and it's easy to see why.
It's a dense, dry read, jostling with facts and ideas about the development of Christianity between the ministry of Jesus and the Iconoclasm Controversy in the Early Middle Ages that marks the sundering of the Eastern and Western Churches.
I would recommend that most readers start with the conclusion, since it's not exactly going to give anything away, and possibly even refer back to it periodically throughout the read.
This classic is a bit old-school now: the orthodox meta-narrative is a high road from which to look down on the impotently raging tides of heresy.
There are occasional discontinuities, including implicit first mentions -- that is, mentions of people who haven't appeared yet in the story but that already presuppose the reader's familiarity with them -- that can confuse the newcomer.
At any rate, the particular newcomers I know seemed to think so.In short, a decent read, especially as a first stroll into this territory, but perhaps best accompanied or followed by a more up-to-date account that does not gloss over the uncertainties surrounding the period.
This is one of the best books on the early church.
The main questions Chadwick sees are these: the question of the continuity and discontinuity between the church and Israel (the role of the law; the status of the Old Testament); questions of authority (determining the canon of the New Testament; the rule of faith; and the role of bishops); theological questions of the nature of God (the Arian controversy), the person of Christ (the Nestorian controversy), and salvation (the Pelagian controversy); and the perennial questions of the relationship between church and society (persecution and martyrdom; church-state relations after the conversion of Constantine; ascetism and monasticism).
Some of the scholarship here is a bit outdated (for instance, the contention that Eusebius of Caesara and St. Epiphanius of Salamis were proto-iconoclasts has been thoroughly dismantled in recent years) but this is still the standard and the classic text on early Christian history, covering roughly the period of the Apostolic Fathers (late first century) to the Seventh Ecumenical Council (eight century) and introducing all of the major themes of Church history along the way, including theology, liturgy, art, major figures, etc.
If anyone is interested in learning more about Church history but has very little knowledge of it already, this book is an excellent place to start.
I feel Professor Chadwick did a remarkable job of cramming so much history into 290 pages. It is a book that needs to be read with pencil in hand.
Lively. Full of controversy. The persons are personalities, which can be hard to pull off in history this historical.
Chadwick's account of the earliest years and struggles of the Christian church is both readable and informative.
probably why it was published by Penguin books.
The history in general is difficult to take in as so much happens in such a short time and so much hinges on single syllables.
chadwick also does a stellar job bringing out the extent to which the eastern churches dominated the story of early Christian development.
it is stunning to think that the earliest centers of Jerusalem, Antioch, Alexandria, Constantinople, etc.
have been gone from the Christian story for nearly 1400 years.
Mildly interesting but I found it slow going.
The author presupposes a lot of knowledge and throws around a lot of concepts without defining all of them clearly.
But the conclusion is excellent.
You could probably read the conclusion, look up the concepts you don't understand on Wikipedia and skip the rest of the book.
TL;DR summary: In the early church various different factions interpreted bits of the religious writings differently and then spent decades arguing about who was right about something that no-one could possibly know the answer to.
Oh and on occasion emperors got involved and people's heads fell off.
An insightful yet edifying history of the first six (approximately) centuries of the Christian church. Chadwick is a Christian but writes as a fair historian. I find that as I look back in the past, I am much more confident about the ultimate triumph of the church as she faces new and dangerous challenges ahead.
Learned quite a lot, but it was a bit on the slow side. Had no idea how much diversity there was in the early years of the church, and how much the early christians really hated other christians who believed slightly different things than themselves.
Everything with a moral bent was seen in the gospel a fulfillment of the moral potentiality of man as the creation of God. In an age in which saw Rome disintegrated, the world-renouncing monks became important transmitters of culture and education (Greek&Latin) and the Roman Catholic Church became the only effective instrument of European unity.FROM JERUSALEM 2 ROME:The Jewish Christians believed that Jesus the Messiah was the fulfillment of everything that proceeded it whereas current Christian biblical readings see the Old Testament through the interpretation of Jesus Christ eyes.
This is an excellent history of the early church, a scholarly walk through of how the church evolved over the first six centuries of her existence.
Two reasons that I didn't rate it higher: first, it's as much text book as it is a pleasure read; and second, the author assumed more historical understanding than I have.
In short, for a more accomplished historian, I am fairly certain that it would rate higher.
The history of the church's first centuries is as unlikely as her beginning.
As the church again faces major challenges today, I found this history to be a comforting reference point.
Yes, it is fifty years old, which means it is somewhat outdated (although not nearly as much as some people claim).
Yes, there is a lot that is left out.
It’s a 290 page introduction, not a comphrehensive history of the early church (though, if you go deeper into the field, you’ll be surprised by how much is covered here).Yes, it is scholarly.
The study of early Christianity is a scholarly pursuit.
Yes, some think the writing style is dry.
This is the classic, gold-standard, introduction to the early church.
It’s still the standard assigned text on the subject despite all the shortcomings mentioned above.

This was a text book for a class I am taking. I definitely had a need to study this, it was something I didn't know much about. So, since I was basically reading about much of this for the first time I was fascinated by the information contained in this book. Doing some side reading along the way I could tell how Chadwick was able to condense 600 years or so of early church history into this paperback. It was fast paced and I thought very easy to comprehend. I really enjoyed reading this.
Chadwick provides a solid introduction to the early Church, discussing church councils, debates in theology, early heresies, and the relationship between "church and state." As is common in introductory texts, he has a tendency to oversimplify some issues.
Solid, though now a bit dated. Chadwick writes well enough, but tried to cram a bit too much in, I think. Many of stories (well-chosen stories!) are very difficult to follow, even if you already know them quite well.
Factual list of ideas and events, but written very sporadically and hard to follow.
No geral, uma boa introdução à história da igreja antiga, com uma escrita elegante e com ampla referência às fontes primárias.
Good primer on early Church history.
I thought Chadwick did just enough to bring the characters to life and a great job of explaining the battles and the background of the Roman emperors.A few things struck me, that truth is worth fighting for and in our post-modern, relativist age that's something worth being reminded of.
The church was beautiful as it demonstrated compassion, generosity, community.It also struck me how obvious it was that someone was a Christian from the distinctive way of life and somehow I think that's so often missing from my life.
There are plenty of longish reviews of this work, so I'll keep my commentary short.
I enjoyed this reverend historian's work quite a bit (Chadwick was an Anglican priest), but this book is NOT a primer.
If you do not already have some background in Church history, you will get occasionally lost, as Chadwick is not concerned with introducing every character; he assumes prior knowledge.
Chadwick was mainly thorough from an academic standpoint (the above notwithstanding), and I enjoyed his personality.
Unlike some more recent historians, Chadwick had no problem reminding his readers that these folks, saints and sinners both, were people, and people are often unpredictable.
I bought Chadwick's _The Early Church_ along with Southern's _Western Society and the Church in the Middle Ages_ to read some solid narratives of a favourite topic of mine, Church history.
I also enjoyed the thematic structure of the book.As for the level, I have read in some reviews that it is either too high or too low.
In my case, this book gave me a stronger sense of the chronological and intellectual development of the Early Church, and it seems to be like a very nice introduction to the topic.
Chadwick relates that story through the prism of the evolution and institutionalization of theological doctrine.
But as a relative layperson when it comes to this period of history, it's hard to imagine a different prism, given the availability of primary texts and the centrality of these theological debates.
All of this is to say that it's hard for me to judge this book on its own terms.That said, I've had enough theological education to be able to follow the debates through the book, although I can see the level of discourse being a turn-off to the casual reader.
In particular, I disagree with his account of early Christian art (a favorite topic of interest and research for me).
He does not reference the original works in his account and leaves me wondering where he gets a lot of his information and does not allow me to further investigate his claims on my own.
While most of this is subtle, and Chadwick is a renowned historian (and I am not), I don't feel that I can recommend this as a good work of historical analysis.
This is a good, sound, basic and highly readable one-volume history of the Christian Church from its earliest Jewish foundation through the growing estrangement of East and West late in the first millennium.
I'd recommend it to most people who want an accurate, manageable history of the period.Occasionally I felt that Chadwick was speaking with more confidence about controversies in the early Church than the sometimes murky historical record really justified.
I found his explanations of the iconoclastic controversy especially frustrating in this regard.But everyone has his biases, and any history has to be read with this in mind.
So,I'd still call this the best short history of the period written for the non-scholar.
A wonderful resource and survey of the first several centuries of the church that details backgrounds and controversies.
Chadwick is by no means the most conservative author, however, his work does a good job detailing several controversies and influential figures.
The only hesitation I would give is that Chadwick is not on board with authentic authorship for some of the NT letters, but he only mentions that at the very beginning and that does not taint his work as a whole.Note: I didn't read this entire work, but I did read most of it.
