https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/194479.Crisis_on_Infinite_Earths
Epic, tragic, inter-dimensional space opera, the penultimate event that started all events and changed DC history forever. The plot: Anti-Monitor versus the known universe. The cast: The DCU in its entirety. The artwork: Mind-boggling, hand-illustrated macroscopy. The writing: Prosaic but incredible.Read Crisis On Infinite Earths for twelve issues of hyperbole perfection.
The target switches from vague menace - like an ever-advancing cosmic fog - to The Anti-Monitor, who’s invincible until the plot needs him to be vulnerable, and the heroes similarly take the same unimaginative approach to every obstacle they encounter in this book: hit it.
This is the day the universe dies!” Here’s Aquaman thinking things he’d never be thinking during a fight but needs to for the reader’s benefit: (Thought bubble) “The JLA wants me on the surface… but I won’t abandon Atlantis, not again.
The only way I could get through this book was to read a few pages a day and it took WEEKS to slog through!
Walls of antimatter are destroying the worlds of the multiverse and it's up to the superheroes of many earths to band stop them and their maker, the villainous Anti-Monitor!I read a handful of issues of this miniseries over the years but never read it in its entirety.
How do you go about destroying universes, killing off characters, and telling a good story at the same time?Fortunately, Marv Wolfman and George Perez were up for the task.
By the time the dust settled, Supergirl and the Flash were dead, along with a lot of other characters.
A universe reinvents itself! This TPB edition collects “Crisis on Infinite Earths” #1-12.Creative Team:Writer: Marv WolfmanIllustrator: George PérezSpecial Anniversary Cover: Alex Ross RICH HISTORY… JUST TOO RICH It’s 1986 and DC Comics already had 50 years of history generating not only millions of stories, but also……an infinite number of “Earths”.Crisis on Infinite Earths wasn’t technically the first time that DC Comics had been a process of reinvention. Batman had began as gritty to become c
So, The Monitor, a powerful being aware of this crisis, is calling a group of heroes to deal against this disaster.The crossover event take you from a simple premise to a humongous story where you have a lot of Earths, each one with a multitude of characters, happening just too many epic things at once.
Crisis on Infinite Earths is unquestionably a landmark moment in the history of DC, and comics in general.
At this point, the expectations for new readers are either sky-high or in the basement.
The reality is somewhere in between.First of all, this is such a product of its time that it's kind of funny.
Lots of dated posturing, dated art, and really dated character designs.
But the art really is quite good, for the time.
And the concept is ambitious enough that I'm able to forgive quite a bit in execution.
But it's also repetitive and neck deep in exposition.
And while the book is everything I described above, it also happens to be a masterpiece of the comic art form and, whether I knew it or not, built for knowledge-less saps like myself.See, Crisis on Infinite Earths existed mainly because the DC universe was getting way too crazy.
The additions would be in readers.And while I may have missed a few things due to my lack of knowledge of many of the characters and near complete ignorance of the multiple universes and their deep histories, the story is compelling in how final and epic it feels.
The most Risky, Confusing, Over-populated and Important comic book event of the 80's.Welcome to pre-crisis multi-verse containing Earth-1, Earth 2, Earth 3, Earth-Prime, Earth-S, Earth-X and whatever alphabets you can think of.
(view spoiler)[ Also, there is the matter of Anti-Matter's demise: I am ANTI-MATTER, I am going to destroy the universe...
Wait, he is not!I am ANTI-MATTER, I am going to destroy the universe...
Wait, he is not!I am ANTI-MATTER, I am going to destroy the universe...
He can't survive that.I am ANTI-MATTER, I am going to destroy the universe.....

The plot was amazing.
Basically a positive matter being known as the Monitor is trying to keep an anti-matter being known as the Anti-Monitor from converting all matter into negative matter, thus destroying all earths.
He destroys almost all of them, but the main five earths begin merging together.
For instance, how did four of my top five favorite DC characters die and come back to life years later?
I'll have to peruse the Internet for that.I feel like reading this made me a genuine comic fan.
I can understand that some people wouldn't like it, because it is VERY long and very confusing at times.
What a classic of the superhero genre, truly getting your money's worth featuring every single DC character up to 1985 in what still hold's up as one of the most ambitious crossovers of all time.I'd only recommend Crisis on Infinite Earths, however, for the true superhero aficionado. This is not an introductory course.Structurally this high-concept story doesn't make sense except steeped in the context of the already decades-old DC multiverse. But it's still a very fun ride. Monitor vs. Anti-Moniter, with every guest star ever. And, lastly, the art! George Perez is simply a legend.
By the seven seas, Crisis on Infinite Earths is a long read for a comic book trade paperback.
It kinda makes me wonder how really big this event was during the year it was originally published, how many characters and stories you have to kill (some may have been built for years) just to clean the slate and simplify the DC line of publications for new readers.
It was effective for me when we are talking about DC's new 52 as I am picking up Bats, WW and Aquaman until now.Aaah.You cannot blame Wolfman for making an otherwise straightforward story a bit crowded and convoluted.
So I had to read this classic storyline as I had never read it until now. I have to say it was not as good as I had hoped. It really has too much going on with all of the different earth versions, and I guess at this time DC also had a lot of different characters some of which I had never heard of. Very similar to Marvel's Secret Wars.
In the late 1950s, they published a story called "Flash of Two Worlds" (Flash #123), in which the Flash, Barry Allen, managed to, using his prodigious super-speed, vibrate through some dimensional barrier or other, and meet the Flash, Jay Garrick, that he had read about as a child in - you guessed it - comic books.The explanation for this was simple - the guy who wrote Flash comics in Barry Allen's childhood had, somehow, "tuned in" to this Alternate Earth, watching Jay Garrick's adventures and, thinking they were fiction, wrote them up as comic books which, in turn, inspired Barry Allen as a child.
Yes it was quite long, and quite wordy, and full of so many damn characters, but in the end it was such a cool intense read.This basically has every single DC character in it.
I'll try the most basic approach.There was the big bang at the start of creation, instead of one universe being made there were infinite universes created.
Now it's up to earths heroes, whether they be from different universes, to put a stop to him.Okay so that wasn't that simple, but come on, it's not a simple concept at all, let alone from the bloody 80's!
One star for the effort of cleaning up the very messy DC universe.
But seriously, reading this again as an adult was like homework; I simply couldn't wait to be done with it.
Too many trite Great Scotts!
and Hera Help Mes!Worst thing about it: Flash's Cosmic Treadmill!Worst line within it: "Suddenly, [Earth:] is gone, swallowed whole, a cosmic Jonah lost to some inter-universal whale."Watchmen was great.
Wildcards was great.
Sadly, it was Marv.This is why I read Marvel in the 80s.

2.5 stars. This was an important mini-series in the DC uiniverse as it put an end to the multiverse as an active part of the DC universe (no more Earth II Superman, Flash, Green Lantern, etc). However, from a pure quality and enjoyment standpont, it was only okay. Overall, call it 2.5 stars.
Incredible mini-series. This story has almost ever DC hero and villian in it. The death of the first Flash, Barry Allen, is a keystone event in the DC universe. Highly recommended
I started taking notes as I read just to get my head around all the different stories, plots and universes involved.
I read a lot of reviews of this book before I started it.
Something that I find rarely happens in comics book stories.
This book is by far the most complex, most ambitious and biggest comic story I have ever read and I absolutely loved it.
I would put this up there with Watchmen as the best comic book stories I have ever read.
This really is a must read for anyone who likes DC comics as its influence can be seen in everything they produce.
Crisis on Infinite Earths may be the worst comic story I've read.
I question that: most DC stories at the time didn't involve characters from parallel universes and those which did had no appreciable drop in sales.
I didn't read COIE at the time of its initial publication because of my aversion to his style, and thirty years haven't altered my view.
He's a professional and clearly worked an insane number of hours on it.COIE suffers in stark contrast to the previous work of fantasy I'd read before it - a tale which also involved multiple universes, a creepy, world-destroying villain, imperfect heroes and lots of journeying between worlds: C.S. Lewis' The Magician's Nephew.
Puntuar este cómic me ha resultado especialmente difícil.Por un lado tiene una parte (especialmente la central) que es simplemente brillante y la idea es espectacular.Por otro puntuar en goodreads para la mayoría de nosotros no es un ejercicio de crítica literaria sino una explicación totalmente subjetiva de lo que una obra nos ha parecido.
Y yo por razones muy subjetivas me he aburrido como una ostra en algunas partes.La idea de reunir a todos los supers está muy bien excepto cuando como yo eres bastante profana en estas cosas y no conoces ni a la mitad.
It's an awesome reworking of Perez's original.So, backstory.
DC Comics was trying to scale down in 1985.
So, Marv Wolfman and George Perez took up the challenge to make a 12-issue miniseries that completely obliterated all of the wacky worlds that writers had come up with since the 50's.
Bizarro World?
Plus, it gave them a chance to rid the world of unused characters and kill off Supergirl and the 'Barry Allen' Flash.
It sent ripples throughout the comic community.
And it's a nice pre-cursor to Watchmen.I give it 4 stars because if you're not up to picking out every, little reference (like I was when I read it originally), you'll be a little lost.
Just as good as I remember it from when I first read it in mid-80s as a kid.Good Monitor, great future planner, knew what he was doing for billions of years.Bad Monitor, one evil mahfah.
His list is long, Supergirl, Dove, Green Arrow, Robin, Huntress, Kole, The Crime Syndicate, Oan Guardians, A host of villains, A host of other heroes.
A true, one of a kind hero.
Lately, he's the end all be all of heroism and just beating everything, but in this, he's only there to give hope and courage.This was #80 on the top 100 graphic novels of all time list.
This is quite the event comic. Once it finally gets going it is okay and even has some good bits. That said, it wakes almost half the book to move the plot forward; the first half is repetitive and slow. It doesn't help that there is no main character or even small group of characters to identify with. Instead, it follows a (seemingly) random collection of DC's heroes.This is one of DC's more famous volumes, and that makes sense from the standpoint of it bringing together all of their universes, but it is rather unsatisfying from a story perspective.
When you take a step back and look at the story as a whole, it's a pretty great concept. However, each individual comic that makes up this trade paperback is NOT so great. A lot of the time it seemed like the story wasn't progressing because too many panels were wasted trying to sum up what happened in the previous issue. Granted, the comics were originally released on a monthly basis, so it's understandable. The last four or five issues are by far the best in the whole series and are what made reading this trade paperback worthwhile for me.
So confusing and busy and bright. The kind of comics that kept me from picking them up as a kid.
It’s finally over. That was more painful than reading textbooks.
If had to find a flaw, a major one would be the cringe problem created by the language used (and the inclusion of Uncle Sam for some reason).
I know it's typical of old comicbooks but it takes out a big portion of the fun.
I know that kind of dialogue was the standard in the comicbook world at that period but a contemporary reader is bound to cringe big time while reading that.
As long as you can make peace with the cringe, like I did, you're in for a fascinating ride!
I’m a little conflicted on this 1985-6 year-long DC Universe story.It has great art but a few too many characters.
Psycho Pirate...White Knight...Pariah...the Monitor...boring!Lots of those types in this multi-issue crossover.
The 90s Almalgamation was one of the worst.I’ll give this one 4-stars, however, as it has a good idea, carried through, and although it got a little boring in the middle (probably could have used 2 fewer issues) it ended well and left me feeling satisfied.
It literally included every hero in the DC Universe at the time and this makes the story cumbersome.
It attempted to streamline the DC Universe, but I feel it did not succeed.
Also, nowadays, the characters feel very dated and "1980s", so this may turn off some readers.
If you are a fan of that 1980s era of DC, or if you just want to see every character in one book, then it is worth the read.
Three stars for an average story an the fun of seeing all the characters in one tale.
