https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/537107.Camber_of_Culdi
King Imre and other “bad guys” were penned as fairly one dimensional creatures, easily labeled as the “insane tyrant”, “the “evil temptress”, or the “scheming liar.” And there was a complete absence of female main characters, though that might be a result of the time period when the book was first published more than anything else.Overall, Camber of Culdi is a fine fantasy read filled with political scheming, dynastic intrigue, and a touch of magic, set in a wonderfully developed faux-medieval Europe with a fully realized Catholic Church.
Others have described the plot. In the timeline of the Deryni novels this is the earliest. I read this when it was first released about 40 years ago. I liked it just as well this time as well. I had forgotten many of the plot elements. It was good coming back to this after so many years.
Re-read. As good as it was the first time, this is what fantasy should be like. And sorry, against this--very much so--most of the current similar efforts still suck donkey balls.
(hide spoiler)] In the intervening years, I did finally get around to reading the original Deryni trilogy (as part of my project to read everything published in the Ballantine Adult Fantasy series in the late 1960s and early 1970s; Kurtz was one of the few authors who debuted in the series, and I believe she's the only one who went on to have any kind of significant career), but I never went back to the Camber books until now, driven by a confluence of circumstances: Judith Tarr's reread on tor.com of the original Deryni trilogy, and the release of the Camber books in eBook format for the very first time.And I'm pleased to say that the first book holds up quite well after all these years.
As he begins to abuse his powers, Earl Camber of Culdi and his family, also Deryni, plot a return to the human lineage.I loved Katherine Kurtz' Deryni books when I first read them back in the seventies.
Still, I remember liking the first two trilogies a lot, so I picked up this reissue of Camber of Culdi looking forward to re-reading an old favorite.A long time back, while I was still enjoying the Deryni series, I read Ursula Le Guin's essay “From Elfland to Poughkeepsie,” in which she cruelly points out the essentially political, non-fantasy nature of the books.
It introduced me to magic and sword and sorcery and alternate worlds, and Katherine Kurtz's works for this series (The Deryni and Gwynedd) are really really good.
For me, the best way to read this series is in this order:The Legends of Saint Camber Camber of Culdi Saint Camber Camber the HereticThe Heirs of Saint Camber The Harrowing of Gwynedd King Javan's Year The Bastard PrinceThe Chronicles of the Deryni Deryni Rising Deryni Checkmate High DeryniThe Histories of King Kelson The Bishops Heir The King's Justice The Quest for Saint Camberand then the one called King Kelson's Bride.
The childe Morgan series is good, too, but in a slight different style from the way she wrote the others.
This was a fun re-read. I first read this back . . . oh, 25 or 30 years ago, I think, and really enjoyed the mix of church politics and court intrigue in a land not entirely dissimilar from medieval Europe. Kurtz has this ability to create characters you really get attached to -- and then kill them off in horrible ways. I'm tempted to continue on through the series now, chronologically, since I've never read the most recent trilogy in the series.
Terry Brooks.Back a few years…and by “a few,” I mean sixteen years ago…I was living in a new town.
I pulled over immediately, went inside, discovered the Shannara books there by Terry Brooks, and have been a fanatic fan of his ever since.But what do you do, when you’ve read every book that the author has released about eighteen times and need something new?You read Katherine Kurtz.I had never heard of Katherine Kurtz, until about a month ago.
This is simply a newly released edition (i.e. same book, new cover).
Something tells me that I’ll be reading them for the next sixteen years.
4.5 starsAlthough I've read this series before, it's been a number of years, so this was a relatively fresh read for me.For those completely unfamiliar with the Deryni series, it's alternative history/fantasy set in the early medieval period in Gwynedd (what we know as northern Wales) and presented as a historical record.
What follows is a preview of Book 2, a bonus short story set about 200 years later, and the appendices (characters, place names, genealogies).
I'd hold off on the short story if you haven't yet read the later books, because it may not make as much sense to you.
The Legends of Camber of Culdi are intriguing for their setting: a fantasy Earth where humans live uneasily alongside the magic-using race of Deryni.
The names of the places and the existence of magic demonstrate that this is not our world, but humans and Deryni alike worship the familiar Christian God with rites and sacraments indistinguishable from those of the Catholic Church.
Religion serves to animate and motivate the characters -- memorably, the human heir-in-exile, Cinhil, who is unwilling to consider overthrowing the Deryni despot Imre because of his deeply felt monastic calling.
Every once in a while I get the urge to revisit old favourites and Katherine Kurtz's Deryni novels are definitely faves of mine.
I think the Camber books and the Heirs of Camber books are some of Katherine's strongest work.Yeah, there's stuff in here that might be problematic these days - I mean, it was originally published in 1976 - but I can deal with that.
I'm happy to say that although I notice the problems over 40 years later (with a few rereads between), they don't impinge on my enjoyment of the book.
(More crying than chuckling in this one.)Yeah, still faves, even 40+ years later.
I decided I wanted to reread the Deryni series from Katherine Kurtz which I loved when I was younger. After some research I discovered, to my delight, that the original six books has grown to 16 ( plus a couple of short story collections). Rather than read them in order of publication I plan to read them in chronological order and began with this title, which is actually the fourth book published. It was as good as I remembered and I look forward to future titles.
I loved this when I read it many moons ago (early 80s at the latest)--so I'm giving it four stars based on foggy memories of that love. I don't know if this would be my kind of book now.
Umpteenth re-read: still as enjoyable as ever.
the christian religious magic was interesting, but I'm bored of books about kings
Came into this completely cold - had never heard of it or the author (it was part of a Humble Bundle). Nothing all that special or new here. I suppose I'll put a (view spoiler)[ here just in case...Evil illegitimate king oppressing the people. Legitimate heir in hiding and doesn't want to be king. Standard cast of characters (including the helpful priest and nobleman willing to stand up to the king). Bad thing happens to heir and he's into the job. Time to go kill the evil king and the good guys
Came into this completely cold - had never heard of it or the author (it was part of a Humble Bundle).
I suppose I'll put a (view spoiler)[ here just in case...Evil illegitimate king oppressing the people.
Legitimate heir in hiding and doesn't want to be king.
Bad thing happens to heir and  he's into the job.
Time to go kill the evil king and  the good guys win.It's a story we've all read before (more than once), but this time ...
It wasn't bad, and I'm honestly not looking to mock the author, but it was just so paint-by-numbers it's hard to be more supportive or constructive.
(hide spoiler)]
About Time...Another Kindle daily deal, one I knew had been around for many years, yet never read. It took a while to get into the story, but once I did, I enjoyed it. The plot dragged in some places, but not impossibly. Overall, a decent book, but I'm not really interested enough to read the rest of the series. Worth the $1.99 deal, though! 😆
Not much meat in this sandwich. Only two and half stars from me.
In the story she shows both sides views and rationalizations, and how those who would rebel against tyranny are at risk of becoming the tyrants themselves.
With all of these heavy themes there is a risk that their weight would bog down the story.
Perhaps this is because these themes are never really dealt with in a direct manner but are seen through the prism of the story itself.If there was a weakness I would say it is that the main character, Camber, in my opinion was never really fleshed out.
Classic Tale from a Beloved Fantasy World It's been many years since I've read the Deryni books.
Since the books have been in print for a long time, I can now read them in chronological order and fully appreciate the medieval fantasy world of both magic and religion that Ms. Kurtz developed so fully.
The magic system is well developed and the social constricts of Gwynedd honed to a very sharp point.
This is not to say that Camber and his Deryni are moral in our sense of the word.
I'm reading them for world-building and characterization, not for any sense of allegory.
Definitely a fantasy story that withstands the test of time.
My boyfriend had a whole stash of old fantasy books in the basement and I made him dig them all out.
I admit I have only really gotten into the fantasy genre within the last two years, and I am so happy that I did!
This is what I would consider a classic fantasy story.
All in all an enjoyable story, and am looking forward to reading the rest in this series and the rest of the Deryni books.
This is a well written book by a lady who really knows her medieval culture. By that I mean that even though this is a secondary world, her scholarship enabled her to bring all sorts of small details to make it real.Now it's not an action-packed story, so if you're looking for epic battles and sword fights, this isn't it. But the characters are well done, the world building is deep, and the read is satisfying.I felt the end came about a bit too quick, but that's me.
The characters in this first book of the "second" trilogy were as friendly to get to know as those of the first trilogy. Except the new-king was annoying, and unmonklike while supposed to be super-monkish. He's really just selfish, which makes me wonder whether the author even knows any monks. I mean, he's really whiny.
This was good, if a bit short. I also think that I would have enjoyed it much more if it had been in audio as I listened to the Kelson arc via audio and really liked it. Regardless, I'll be reading the next book as soon as I can get a copy.
I liked it, but was disappointed by the sequels. Even then, the first trilogy is better than later additions.
However, I read the aforementioned article and learned that Kurtz’s impact on the genre was a lot more widespread that I had known.
Since she had that kind of influence on the genre, I decided to try out Katherine Kurtz.Camber of Culdi is the first book of the second published trilogy of Deryni novels.
Kurtz develops in the interracial and religious conflicts well in the novel and kept me interested as a reader.Camber learns of a living descendant from an earlier kingdom that could help him defeated Imre and his sister.
I read many of Katherine Kurtz's Deryni books when I was younger and loved them.
I hadn't read this one before, though, and I'm left wondering whether this book simply doesn't measure up to the rest of the series or if the series can't stand up to the passage of time.
But more than ever I grow tired of a men's world full of male characters where the women may as well not exist.
I expected much more from a book about such a controversial Saint figure in Deryni history - I couldn't give you more than two words to describe his personality, let alone any of the other characters.
I've been reading books by Katherine Kurtz since I was in the 6th grade.
It's in large part because of this book and its sequel that I've loved to read most of my life.
I think the only reason that I didn't give this 5 stars is that the book is so short that some of the characters come across as more 2 dimensional than 3 dimensional.
How did Cinhil's grandfather really escape and while it's clear that Dan Draper had told Nicolas / Cinhil about being the Haldane heir, why was it that he didn't believe him.Beyond that, the author paints a picture of life in the dark ages that is fascinating.
This is a great book for all ages.
Camber of Culdi is a wonderfully written fantasy filled with true to life political scheming, dynastic plotting and intrigue, and plenty of magic, set in an exquisitely developed medieval Europe based world with a church resembling the corrupt Catholic church of medieval European times. This is a book that will catch your attention, pull at your heartstrings, and keep you in suspense. This one is hard to put down, and will be an emotional roller coaster ride. A must read! The whole series is a must read.
I didn't really want to enjoy this book, the universe at first felt a little roughshod, I was confused by some of the authors choices in world-building. That being said, I really got into it, and by the climax, would even venture to say I enjoyed it. I don't think I'm personally going to be continuing the trilogy, but I did feel it was deserving of 4-stars, if you're a fan of high fantasy, and a nice coup d'etat this book is for you.
