https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18033.Heavy_Weather
Wodehouse is the sun on rainy days. Ridiculous, glorious, unforgettable!
Peak Wodehouse.Heavy Weather (1933) forms part of the Blandings Castle saga.
It's the fourth full-length novel to be set there, after Something Fresh (1915), Leave It to Psmith (1923) and Summer Lightning (1929).
Heavy Weather follows straight on from the events described in Summer Lightning.
Whilst lacking any weep-with-laughter scenes, Heavy Weather is as beautifully written as usual.
At this stage in his career, and having already written almost 50 books, P.G. Wodehouse was incapable of writing a bad sentence.
All we'll ever know is that it took place at Ascot, "the year Martingale won the Gold Cup", and it made Beach the Butler laugh so much he fell off his deck chair.5/5 Heavy Weather by P.G. Wodehouse
August 2016 reread: One of Wodehouse's finest, full of zany plots and counterplots. I love his humor but have discovered (somewhat to my dismay) that not everyone shares my taste in humor/comedy. If you like Jeeves & Wooster but haven't discovered the delights of Blandings Castle yet, please start with Something Fresh (sometimes titled "Something New") as the comedy builds if you read the series in order. Even so, this is pretty darn funny as a standalone if you like this style of writing!
The situation is this: Sir Galahad, a real man about town in his youth, has written his memoirs, and they include dirty secrets on a whole lot of people.
The whole time I was reading this, I kept thinking how well it would lend itself to a movie adaptation.
Well, it turns out that the TV movie was made by the BBC in 1995, starring Peter O’Toole as Sir Galahad.
I’ve given up movies through Chodesh Cheshvan, and planning on cutting down all year, but this one is on my to-see list.Apparently, the book is a sequel, but it works very well as a stand-alone.
Heavy Weather (1933) is the continuation of Summer Lightning* (1929).
As sad as I was to ‘leave’ the fictional Blandings Castle at the end of this my third privileged visit there, I considered what it must have been like to wait for the next P.G.
☺*Although here on goodreads we show Summer Lightning with a 1954 publication date, it was first published in the United States on 1 July 1929 by Doubleday, Doran, New York, under the title "Fish Preferred", and in the United Kingdom on 19 July 1929 by Herbert Jenkins, London.
My first P.G. Wodehouse--feel that the target audience for Heavy Weather was probably your average teenage boy in the 1920s; a group I imagine that was just as hygienically challenged/horrid as teenage boys can be today.
Still, the book is "loads" of fun, even for readers far removed from the ven diagram of Wodehouse's original demographic.
I enjoyed the way the plot tap-danced from one near miss to another and Wodehouse's language is quite simply fun, fun, fun.
This is the sequel to Summer Lightning, aka Fish Preferred; the action begins a few days after that book ends.
As such, it's very funny, but at the same time, it's somewhat more emotional than a typical Wodehouse farce.
Through a romantic misunderstanding, two of the main characters are unhappy through much of the book - and I mean deeply unhappy, not Wodehouse funny/unhappy.
So in this similar situation, Gally helps Dolly's daughter straighten out her romantic problems, and reminisces about her mother.
Read Summer Lightning first, then read this one.
the review i wrote for summer lightning, the effective prequel to this novel, sums up my feeling on heavy weather as well. they are interchangeable in my mind but for chronology at this point. to wit,a link to that review: http://www.goodreads.com/review/edit/...and in the spirit of additional content, here's a different link, to an essay called, "the agonies of writing musical comedy" by the ineffable mr. wodehouse: http://www.readbookonline.net/readOnL...wodehouse major character rankingsjeeves and wooster but always togetheruncle fredthe dronesukridgemr. mulliner ties golf storiesblandingspsmith(my order of preference, at this point)
Il tipico umorismo inglese si scatena nella storia di una scalcinata famiglia aristocratica, dove tutti i personaggi sono un po' matti, le disavventure rocambolesche ed i dialoghi da teatro dell'assurdo.Delizioso, leggero e divertente!
Have read this atleast thrice but the charm of the book increases every time I read it.One of the bestest of wodehouse.
It was a pure joy hearing to this audio book.
Lady Constance and Parsloe want to destroy the book whereas Lord Tilbury wants to publish it.
Amidst all this is the love story of ronnie and Sue and the plot to kidnap empress is worrying lord Emsworth, but it all ends well with the presence of mind of Galahad and finally peace is restored Highly recommend this book to all
‘Heavy Weather’ is unique amongst the Blandings book as no-one present is posing under an assumed name as all the imposters were reviled in ‘Summer Lightning’, however Wodehouse has enough stock misunderstandings to keep both the twists and the pages turning.Central to the plot is that Ronnie Fish wishes to marry Sue Brown but his Aunt Julia will not hear of it, as she has previously appeared in the chorus, and she is putting the ‘bite’ on Lord Emsworth to deny Ronnie the capital he needs to set the thing in motion.
No, what made Heavy Weather so ruddy amusing was the the exceptional funniness of Wodehouse's prose: rare was the paragraph that failed to be witty, droll or downright hilarious.Here's an example that I've picked entirely at random:Monty Bodkin was rather an attractive popinjay, as popinjays go.
And while Monty Bodkin was not actually spatted at the moment, there did undoubtedly hover about him a sort of spat aura.So why doesn't Heavy Weather deserve more than three stars?
). In a comparable fashion, I suspect that the affection I felt for Heavy Weather was not directed at the novel as such, but rather at what I suppose is the Wodehousian universe at large, which serves to explain my three-star rating.
“Storms might be raging elsewhere in the grounds of Blandings Castle, but there on the lawn was peace—the perfect unruffled peace which in this world seems to come only to those who have done nothing whatever to deserve it.” The world of Blandings is one of most popular of Wodehouse’s creations that contains many of his most popular character types. Domineering aunts, eccentric uncles, a young couple whose love is constantly interrupted by shallow misunderstandings, a slithering villain, over p
“Storms might be raging elsewhere in the grounds of Blandings Castle, but there on the lawn was peace—the perfect unruffled peace which in this world seems to come only to those who have done nothing whatever to deserve it.”
The world of Blandings is one of most popular of Wodehouse’s creations that contains many of his most popular character types.
Domineering aunts, eccentric uncles, a young couple whose love is constantly interrupted by shallow misunderstandings, a slithering villain, over privileged—but well-meaning—air-headed young men, an unruffled butler, a captain of industry, and of course, a pig.Heavy Weather is among Wodehouse’s most satisfying novels.
So much so that, while publishing tycoon Lord Tilbury can't wait to get his greedy mits on them in anticipation of a huge profit, various eminent figures from Gally's past fear the worst for their reputations, and are just as keen to see the book go unpublished.Galahad himself decides to defer going to the presses as an act of mollification in order that certain parties might agree to the marriage of his small, pink nephew Ronnie Fish ('like a minor jockey with scarletina') to the chorus-girl Sue Brown, the daughter of the only woman he ever loved.
--And I have to keep this quote handy whenever the language gets the best of me: Lord Tilbury to Monty Bodkin (Monty is accusing Tilbury of trespassing on the Blandings Castle grounds): "May I ask what you are doing here yourself?""Me?""If, as you say, Lord Emsworth is on such bad terms with Sir Gregory Parsloe, I should have thought that he would have objected to his nephew walking in his grounds.""Ah, but, you see, I'm his secretary." "Why should the fact that you are your uncle's secretary--?""Not my uncle's.
I love P.G. Wodehouse, because he only wants to give me a good time and a few laughs and he never wants to make me a better person.
First of all, a Wodehouse jaunt will always throw you right into some screwball action.
Silly and overwrought plans will be made by silly and inept young men, usually ones in pursuit of their lady-loves and always ones who are good-hearted, even if somewhat dim.
Breathless escapades topple one right on top of the other and witty dialogue ties them all together into a right good story.
Pick a Wodehouse at random, and you really cannot go wrong.
Monty Bodkin, The Empress, and Blandings castle - it doesn't get much better than this! Delightful.
Marvellous stuff, very charming, cosy and great fun. I do love Wodehouse, and this is one of his best.
Pretty much perfect Wodehouse, shimmery and brilliant. Lord Emsworth and Monty Bodkin in the same book, as well as Lady Constance Keeble and Lady Julia Fish, makes for utter adorableness.
I'm beginning to think the Blandings Castle books are funnier than the Bertie-Jeeves ones.
Listening to Wodehouse is even better than reading him. Jarvis does an excellent job. Merely saying "Monty Bodkin" is enough to improve one's day.
But he's one of the bulldog breed who don't readily admit defeat.Monty Bodkin, abruptly given the boot by Lord Tilbury, has taken up his secretarial duties at Blandings Castle, home of Lord Emsworth and his adored pig, Empress of Blandings.
There, it seems the publication - or otherwise - of the memoirs is becoming a "cause celebre".Three camps are forming: those who want the book published, those who want it suppressed and those who, including Monty on one side and Percy Pilbeam, private detective, on the other, who have been sent to steal it.
Ronnie still wants to marry Sue Brown and Sue loves him with all her heart, but when she learns that her former fiance, Monty Bodkin is coming to Blandings as Lord Emsworth's secretary, she panics.
Lady Julia could care less about the book and Lady Constance wants it destroyed.
He's convinced young Bodkin (Sir Gregory's nephew) has come to steal the Empress, when actually Monty is after the manuscript, for if he finds it, he can get his job back.
Lord Tilbury can't be faulted for wanting to publish the book, but he isn't very likeable.

This one was just okay. The plot seems just to go in circles. The wit is high at times, at least. The Blandings novels are evidently more sequential than some of his other writings, for I was certainly ruing not having the two previous series novels under my belt (due to library availability). At least now I have something to look forward to--circling back to them and finding out more about what I've missed.
Pigs seem to appear in comedies, even if the duck won a competition for the funniest animal, after a survey measured around the world people’s opinions on the amusement they feel connected with dogs, cats, etc.There is another comedy I recommend – A Private Function, one of the most hilarious films I have seen, where a pig has, again, the lead role.In Heavy Weather, The Empress is the name of an award winning pig, which is kidnapped and eats an important piece of the plot; I will not say what to keep it interesting for you.In this novel there are people who love each other, others hate them, stupid, shrewd, generous, arrogant and tough characters.
in which we encounter the return of ronnie fish and his one true love, the chorus girl sue brown; lord emsworth and his one true love, the empress of blandings (a pig who "could have passed in dim light for a captive balloon, fully inflated and about to make its trial trip"); the dastardly pilbeam; and, of course, the hon.
galahad threepwood's Reminiscences and the story of the prawns:We left Beach, it will be remembered, chuckling softly.
But in a book of the nature of the Hon. Galahad Threepwood's Reminiscences the student is sure sooner or later to come upon some high spot, some supreme expression of the writer's art which demands a more emphatic tribute.
Chapter 8 was great, worth another read.Nice bits: Beach reading the manuscript, "he plunged into a droll account about the Bishop of Bangor when an undergraduate at Oxford, and despite his cares was soon chuckling softly, like some vast kettle coming to the boil." Pilbeam comes upon him, recognizes the manuscript.
Beach gave a convulsive start, turned, and, looking up, beheld within six inches of his eyes the face of the leading executive of the sinsiter Parlsoe Gang.
Then, cracking under the strain, it spread itself out upon the ground." "He remembered that the window of the writing-room had been open a few inches at the bottom.
Of course, this is an England that never existed and the action nearly all takes place in Blandings Castle, the country house of Lord Emsworth.The writing is an unmitigated joy, flowing easily with many humorous stories, and the characterisation, although played for comedy with very recognisable types, is well drawn.The plot is tight, keeps moving and is cleverly constructed.
The sub-plot, about Lord Emsworth's prize pig, the Empress of Blandings is also well integrated with the main story.The weather in the book may include storms and downpours, but it is a delight to read, and leaving a very warm feeling.
There are certain features that are essentially standard in a Wodehouse novel, and this book is no exception.
Throw in a devious private investigator with heavily brilliantined hair and a sinister moustache, and you have all the elements necessary for a comic romp through aristocratic England of the 1920's.This book is chock-full of hilarious lines like, "I have only two things to say to you, Lord Tilbury.
The other is Pip-pip." And it has the famously complex Wodehouse plots where everything threatens to spin out of control, yet somehow comes out all right without seeming contrived.
Well, not too contrived.The absolutely epitome of a light, fun read.
