https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6174.Survival_in_Auschwitz
Todos sentiram isso: nenhum dos guardas, quer italianos, quer alemães, teve a coragem de vir ver que coisas fazem os homens quando sabem que vão morrer.
Mas as mães mantiveram-se acordadas e prepararam, com cuidado amoroso, o alimento para a viagem, lavaram os seus meninos e prepararam as bagagens; ao raiar do dia, o arame farpado estava cheio de roupas de criança estendidas ao vento, a secar; e não esqueceram as fraldas, e os brinquedos, e os travesseiros, e centenas de outras pequenas coisas das quais as crianças sempre necessitam.
Se fossem morrer amanhã com os vossos filhos, não lhes dariam hoje de comer?”
Ad ogni modo, odio o non odio, sono terribili le immagini di degrado che Levi ci presenta, l'abbrutimento della mente che l'autore cerca di respingere fino all'ultimo a favore della razionalità dell'intelletto umano.«ci siamo accorti che la nostra lingua manca di parole per esprimere questa offesa, la demolizione di un uomo»e si finisce inesorabilmente per chiedersi "se questo è un uomo".Voto: 8,5I was fourteen when I read for the first time If this is a man: the only book among those read for schoolwork that I liked even in those days.
It's hard to say anything about this magnificent book that hasn't been said many times before, so I won't even try but just write a note on why I have an abiding sadness when I think of the author.Primo Levi lived all his life in the house of his birth in Turin, Italy apart from when he was in the concentration camp.
Luckily he lived, just, through that awful, murderous year, and to all intents and purposes resumed the life of a chemist and author that the Nazis interrupted.
Later he died from a fall down a narrow stairwell.
As Elie Wiesel said, "Primo Levi died at Auschwitz forty years later".
This book is said to be one of the most important books ever written about Holocaust. What I am referring here are not the history books but the first-hand experiences written and narrated by the people who were there when the Holocaust happened. Since I read a handful of these, I can't disagree. I even think that, in some aspects, this could be the MOST important of them all.You see, Anne Frank wrote her diary   at 13 while hiding in her house with her family so she was not able to include her
What I am referring here are not the history books but the first-hand experiences written and narrated by the people who were there when the Holocaust happened.
provide.In their books, Victor Frankl and Primo Levi recounted WHAT THEY DID TO SURVIVE.
I thought that this could have only been possible to come from thinking adults who are expected to be less emotional and more rational than most teenagers.Victor Frankl says that to survive, one has to hold on to the image of yourself stepping out of the camp and going back to your life prior to the concentration camp.
"Only an animal worries all the time about the next meal."- Naguib Mahfouz The desperation of the quote arising out of the idea that poor forced to live meal-to-meal might not be able to enjoy a human life can be found in Levi's memoir too. It's title coming from the poem that begins: "You who live safe In your warm houses, You who find, returning in the evening, Hot food and friendly faces: Consider if this is a man Who works in the mud Who does not know peace Who fights for a scrap of bread W
"You who live safe In your warm houses, You who find, returning in the evening, Hot food and friendly faces: Consider if this is a man Who works in the mud Who does not know peace Who fights for a scrap of bread Who dies because of a yes or a no.
How they learned to live the life of stealth, as people in such desperation circumstances are forced to - out of neccesity, nobody could survive the Auschwitz by being a nobel prisoner or by being altruistic to his fellow prisioners.
I will try not to overstate my feelings on this book.
I believe this is one of (if not THE) most important book ever written.
Everyone should read this book.
Levi's style of writing is unlike any other I've read.
It is detailed, incredibly intelligent, moving, poignant, and in some way almost detached from his experience, which makes reading about it all the more moving and painful.
I've bought several people copies of this book, because I feel it is that important.
We must never forget what happened.
And we must never allow it to happen again.
Aconteceu há tão pouco tempo mas metade do Mundo já esqueceu...
Είναι σχεδόν εκνευριστικό το πώς κατάφερε και περιόρισε σε μηδενικό βαθμό το μίσος του για ότι βίωσε και κατάφερε να δώσει μία περιγραφή των πραγμάτων σαν απλός παρατηρητής και όχι σαν έγκλειστος.
Έτσι μπορεί κάποιος να καταλάβει από πρώτο χέρι πως λειτουργούσε το στρατόπεδο σε κάθε βαθμίδα του.
Όσα και αν διαβάσει ή παρακολουθήσει κάποιος, δε θα σταματάμε να εκπλησσόμαστε με τις θηριωδίες των SS και το τι μπορεί να κάνει ο άνθρωπος στον άνθρωπο…Κλείνω με μία φράση από το βιβλίο: «Ξέρετε πως λέμε το ποτέ στην αργκό του Λάγκερ; Αύριο το πρωί»…
Toda a leitura apesar, ou por isso, da beleza e simplicidade da escrita, é terrivelmente dolorosa, pelo que descreve e por sabermos que tudo foi real.Destaco uma passagem, tão comovente como todas, mas uma...:Para o homem livre a vida tem de ter um objectivo, mas "Agora e aqui, a nossa finalidade é chegar à Primavera.
(...) Hoje pela primeira vez o Sol nasceu vivo e nítido por cima do horizonte lamacento (...) e quando senti a tepidez através da roupa, compreendi como se pode adorar o Sol."Li este livro há cerca de três anos e quis relê-lo agora.
Συγκλονιστικό και τρομαχτικό... Απλά διαβάστε το...
انسان نسبت به انسانهای دیگر یا همچون خدایان است یا همچون گرگ. ارسموسخودکشی پریمو لوی -نماد مقاومت و استقامت انسانی- در اواخر دهه هشتاد بهقدری دور از انتظار بود که باعث سرخوردگی و یاس گسترده ای در دنیا شد. در آن زمان ویلیام استایرن نویسنده کتاب ظلمت آشکار: خاطرات دیوانگی با چاپ مقالاتی در تایمز، لوی را جز آندسته از افرادی قرار داد که زیر رنج عظیم افسردگی سرانجام کمر به نابودی خویش بستند و به دفاع از او و اقدامش پرداخت. من اولین بار نام پریمو لوی را در همین کتاب استایرن دیدم. مدتها از خواندن این ک
من اولین بار نام پریمو لوی را در همین کتاب استایرن دیدم.
مدت‌ها از خواندن این کتاب گذشته بود که در جستجوی کتابی با موضوع هولوکاست، از روی اتفاق نام لوی را دیدم و حدسم درست از آب درآمد، خودش بود!
بی درنگ شروع به خواندن کتاب کردم تا زندگی مردی را مرور کنم که از سخت ترین شکنجه های آشویتس جان سالم به‌در برد تا در نهایت خود را از ساختمانی به پایین پرتاب کندکتاب یک اتوبیوگرافی ست که به شرح خاطرات نویسنده در اردوگاه مرگ آشویتس می پردازد، اما این سطحی ترین حقیقتی ست که می شود از کتاب بدست آورد.
There have been so many reviews written on Primo Levi’s “Survival in Auschwitz” that I have very little to add. It has been said many a time that “Survival in Auschwitz” (original title “If This is a Man”) IS THE BEST OF ALL HOLOCAUST MEMOIRS, and it may very well be. Primo Levi not only tells about his horrific experience, he also adds psychological and philosophical reflections, which make this Holocaust memoir unique. I would like to endorse the following review:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...I found it to the point.
"Here there is no why." Primo Levi was an Italian Jew who came to live in very troubled times. Born and raised in Turin, he was subjected to the fascist racial laws which discriminated against Jews and made finding employment very difficult; after the German occupation of Italy began, he joined the resistance movement but was quickly caught and transferred to an internment camp. When the camp itself came under German control, the authorities started arranging mass deportations of captured Jews
If This Is a Man is taken from a poem by Levi which opens the book, and in which he asks his readers - sitting contendly in their warm, safe heated houses, to remember and think about what happened, never forget about it and pass this knowledge on to future generations:Consider if this is a manWho works in the mud,Who does not know peace,Who fights for a scrap of bread,Who dies because of a yes or a no.Consider if this is a womanWithout hair and without name,With no more strength to remember,Her eyes empty and her womb coldLike a frog in winter.Levi's memoir is a chronicle of life inside a concentration camp, a world within a world; news from the outside world perpetrate the barbed wire very rarely and only at the end of the book, in the form of sound of distant artillery, which signify the slowly advancing Russians.
Η πιο σεμνή και ουσιαστική καταγραφή της φρίκης του Ολοκαυτώματος. Δεν είναι τυχαίο που το βιβλίο διδάσκεται από τη δεκαετία του 60 σε σχολεία. Ούτε ύφος ούτε μυθοπλασία, μόνο η παράθεση της αλήθειας, με οξυδέρκεια, βάθος ψυχής και τρυφερότητα απέναντι στον άνθρωπο.
This book is perhaps easier to read than one might imagine.Primo Levi, aged 25, was attached to a resistance group in Italy.
In the Lager (camp), where man is alone and where the struggle for life is reduced to its primordial mechanism, this unjust law is openly in force, is recognized by all.
The Russians advance and the Germans desert the camp.
Somehow, some of these sick prisoners - using every ounce of initiative and determination that they have left - hang on to life until the Russians arrive.Of the ninety-four men who were deported to Auschwitz from Levi's resistance group, only twenty-one survived.
Pegando no título do livro Se Isto é Um Homem, e considerando o homem como um ser pensante que se rege por valores morais que prezam a dignidade e o respeito pelo próximo, que homens eram estes nos campos de concentração?Que homens eram os carrascos nazis, o que lhes motivou tanto ódio e o porquê de tanta satisfação em humilhar e levar à mais profunda degradação outros seres humanos?E os que passavam para lá do arame farpado como prisioneiros, quando perdiam a sua humanidade?Transporto o portão, privados dos bens pessoais, cabeça rapada, despidos de roupa e dignidade, envergavam a farda andrajosa e sujeitos ao regime mais abjeto, já não eram homens, já não eram mulheres, eram invólucros que marchavam ao ritmo da brutalidade.
Survival in Auschwitz A well-written, accessible testimony of day to day life in the Lager of Buna-Monowitz (Auschwitz), from January 1944 until its liberation on 27 January 1945. The struggle with hunger, cold, tiredness and sickness becomes almost tangible while reading the many true stories which are absorbingly told. The author's intelligent, insightful thoughts on the dehumanization caused by this constant struggle and humiliation of the Jewish prisoners, make this book a superior, timeless
The author's intelligent, insightful thoughts on the dehumanization caused by this constant struggle and humiliation of the Jewish prisoners, make this book a superior, timeless and mandatory read.While Elie Wiesel's Night fixates heavily on the struggle with faith, Primo Levi's memoir felt more universal because of its focus on humanity itself.
Rejection of human solidarity, obtuse and cynical indifference to the suffering of others, abdication of the intellect and of moral sense to the principle of authority, and above all, at the root of everything, a sweeping tide of cowardice, a colossal cowardice which masks itself as warring virtue, love of country and faith in an idea.”Don't miss out on this wonderful, stirring book.
Até ficar intrínseco, diluído no nosso ser, para nunca esquecer.
Sim, porque continuamos a testemunhar tantos flagelos por esse mundo fora.Uma narração com uma lucidez extrema ao qual não ficarão indiferentes.
Sim, é mais um testemunho entre tantos mil, mas a escrita despojada, seca, descarnada, despe-nos até ao âmago, ficamos translúcidos.
É poderoso o seu discurso e é absolutamente inconcebível o que o homem foi capaz de fazer ao homem.Vale mais estrelas do que as podemos quantificar."Então, pela primeira vez nos apercebemos de que a nossa língua carece de palavras para exprimir esta ofensa, a destruição de um homem."
Very well written. A recount of Life In Hell on Earth.
5⭐ Io credo che questo libro parli da solo.
5⭐️ Io credo che questo libro parli da solo.
Có lẽ chỉ khi là một trong số rất ít ỏi người sống sót sau Auschwitz (theo nhiều số liệu thì chỉ khoảng 2% tù nhân Auschwitz là còn sống khi trại được giải phóng) và bắt đầu ghi lại những hồi ức kinh khủng về khoảng thời gian đen tối đó trên những tấm vé tàu ở Turin thì Primo Levi mới, như sau này ông viết trong lời mở đầu cuốn Có được là người, coi việc bị bắt vào Auschwitz tương đối muộn là một điều may mắn: Vào thời điểm ông bị đưa vào Auschwitz, đầu năm 1944, do cần nhân công lao động chính phủ Đức đã quyết định kéo thời gian sống của tù nhân trước khi giết, thay vì đưa thẳng vào trại hơi ngạt.Được viết năm 1947, Có được là người thuật lại câu chuyện thực của chính tác giả từ lúc bị bắt tại Ý đến khi được/bị đưa vào trại tập trung Auschwitz và chuyện ông đã sống sót trong chốn địa ngục đó như thế nào.
First off, I must point out that I think it is very difficult to rate someone's personal and emotional account of an event in their life, and even more so when it was a tragedy like the holocaust.
He explains to the reader that the prisoners of the camp were stripped of their humanity, and the way that he survived was not by sharing his bread or taking pity, but by looking mostly out for himself.
Primo had several close calls while in the camp and I assure you that as you near the end, you will be touched as he becomes reacquainted with a bit of his humanity.
Cuốn sách này, ngoài những mô tả về cuộc sống dưới mức con người ở Auschwitz, còn phơi bày một khía cạnh nhỏ cho thấy vì sao người Do Thái luôn được cho là dân tộc kinh doanh giỏi nhất, và có đầu óc sáng tạo bậc nhất.
:)Ngoài ra, cuốn sách này tạo ra một bộ đôi không thể hoàn hảo hơn với "Chiến tranh không có một khuôn mặt phụ nữ".
Một bên là thân phận của những người phụ nữ trong và sau chiến tranh, một bên là thân phận con người, đặc biệt là người Do Thái, trong địa ngục Auschwitz.
Chi ha atteso che il suo vicino finisse di morire per togliergli un quarto di pane, è, pur senza sua colpa, più lontano dal modello dell'uomo pensante, che il più rozzo pigmeo e il sadico più atroce.Molti hanno scritto su questo libro, molto è stato scritto in generale sul genocidio degli ebrei.
Non è mia intenzione scrivere un sermone a difesa degli ebrei, perché lo sappiamo tutti che la storiella delle razze è sbagliata.
Sarebbe più giusto dire che il massacro è avvenuto nei confronti di uomini etichettati come 'ebrei'.
Perché siamo tutti uomini, giusto?
La cerco, ma non la trovo."Auschwitz è stato un laboratorio umano sociale.
É nessa vivência, num estado de tensão e de ânsia permanente, que assistimos a inúmeras tragédias, individuais e colectivas, onde o dia e a noite devoram seres humanos transformados em fantasmas, numa alucinação quotidiana, em que pequenos gestos representam instrumentos de sobrevivência, e que nos relembram memórias dolorosas de sonhos interrompidos.A amizade de homens atormentados pela sobrevivência diária, sem parâmetros para a justiça ou o perdão, têm recordações do mundo externo que povoam os sonos a as vigílias, numa espécie de hipnose que mata o pensamento e acalma a dor física e espiritual.Será possível a dignidade e a alma humana sobreviverem a tão dolorosas vivências?
He tells us that he would not have survived the winter 1945 had he not been selected, as he was chemist by profession, to work in a laboratory in the adjacent rubber factory, and for the fact that in January 1945 the war came to an end when the Russian army bombarded the Concentration Camp and shortly afterwards liberated the prisoners.
The narrative of the arrest, the transport from Italy to Poland, in closed train wagons of thousands of prisoners, men, women, children and old people, for days and days, without food or drinking water, is in itself of unspeakable cruelty.
It is not necessary to consume mountains of books to understand the atrocity, inhumanity, visceral cruelty of war.
Only One. No need to cram definitions and issue cries to understand what an organized genocide.
Only One. Needless to collect thousands of testimonials to get an idea of the trauma experienced by those who escaped the carnage in extremis of the death camps.
One book ...
if it's a book; a single cry ...
if it's testimony; one document ...
With this book we take more conscience than any other function of "memory" of writing.
8 de 10*Campos de concentração, judeus, nazis, alemães, trabalhos forçados, arame farpado. Estas palavras serão suficientes para qualquer pessoa fazer a associação com a barbaridade que a Europa viveu no século passado. Mas nunca serão suficientes os livros, filmes ou debates sobre o tema, para que este se mantenha bem vivo na mente de quem teve a sorte de não o viver e para que não se volte a repetir!Comentário completo em:http://abibliotecadajoao.blogspot.pt/...
9) Questiono-me sobre isto muitas vezes, o que leva as pessoas a fazerem “Maldades” aos outros, e muitas das vezes no seio da própria família, em plena consciência dos seus atos!
como reconhecê-los e evitá-los?Como é que um homem (nazi) durante o dia maltrata um ser humano, mata, moi, regozija-se com a dor do próximo, lhe retira o mais pequeno fragmento de dignidade, um carrasco sem dó nem piedade, e à noite se reúne com família e amigos, e é afável, meigo, ternurento e atencioso!
Se isto é um homem, encaminha-nos para várias reflexões e interrogações, em busca de respostas sobre nós homens/mulheres.
Other than it’s important to read it?
This is Primo Levi’s eye witness account, his version of his personal experiences being a prisoner in Auschwitz during WWII.
All eye witness accounts are different.
Can something as traumatic as Auschwitz be written about in a meaningful way?
Is it simply important it exists?
If we don’t write about it, if we don’t reproduce the experiences of traumatic things – even when those who experienced them pass away – then someday we will forget about it.
It’ll slip out of our cultural memory, even though books like this exists, even though someone dared bear witness.
