https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124430.City_of_Djinns
You can go and possibly order them about for a bit, perhaps introduce some new ideas, build a few good buildings, but then in the end you must go away and die in Cheltenham.’And the few Brits still remaining in-country show the sort of bizarre false memories of "the motherland" common to all such colonial relics (I've met some similar people myself in Kenya) – ‘The dish I like is that Kentucky Fried Chicken,’ confides one man as he reminisces about a couple of trips to relatives in Suffolk.
City of Djinns: The Reader’s Journey I started reading The White Mughals sometime in an auto in Lucknow, in 2011. I still remember reading enchantedly of Old Delhi while sitting stuffed inside a crammed  "share-auto", dodging the remains of an equally old Lucknow (and close to the pre-Shah Jahani capital, of Agra). I remember missing my stop. I don’t remember when I left off reading it.Then, recently, I had an argument with a friend about that fiendishly invented TV series/Soap Opera ‘Jodhaa Ak
A simple technique of transposition of place and time - Dalrymple first talks of a place that he himself is visiting and then effortlessly takes us back centuries to show what momentous events were transpiring in that same now innocuous piece of land… exposing the grand history in which daily life of great cities are lived.2.
This is the perfect read when visiting Delhi.Written by a Brit, this book is the result of a one year stay in Delhi.
The understanding with which he presents his stories becomes contagious and after this relatively short read one feels immersed into the magic and mysteries of India.I read it while visiting a friend who was also spending one year in India as a Fulbright scholar.
She was sharing an apartment in South of Delhi with other Fulbrighters, and that apartment had become as a kind of warm and welcoming consulate-refugee camp for any friend or friend of friends going through India.
At the still wet-behind-the-ears age of twenty-five, Dalrymple and his wife went to live in Delhi, and this amazing book is the result of his first year in the city.It is an utter delight from beginning to end.
It is also full of touching examples of everyday life - as Dalrymple explores with a kindly eye, the nooks and crannies of Delhi and its people.The scope of the book is incredible, but his skills as a writer are so brilliant that you just float effortlessly from theme to theme, carried on a cloud of warmth and humour.
(hide spoiler)]3) The experience of Partition, including Dalrymple visiting Pakistan to talk to immigrants who left Delhi at that time, and their great nostalgia for the city they had left behind.
Minds set in different ages walked the same pavements, drank the same water, returned to the same dust.” A mystic explains to William Dalrymple that Delhi is a city of djinns.
“You could not see them, said Sadr-ud-Din, but if you concentrated you would be able to feel them: to hear their whisperings, or even, if you were lucky, to sense their warm breath on your face.”Newly married, William Dalrymple and his wife, the artist Olivia Fraser, move to the Sufi neighborhood of Nizamuddin in New Delhi and set out to explore their adopted city.
Based upon the letters that they wrote back home, various British civil servants like Metcalf, Lutyens, Fraser, have been pictured and their distinct approaches towards India and Indians has been well illustrated.
Only the vanity of an Empire- an Empire emancipated from democratic constraints, totally self-confident in its own judgement and still, despite everything, assured of its own superiority-could have produced Lutyens's Delhi"And about Fraser, who acquired the Indian traditions & customs and mixed enthusiastically with the common gentry, Dalrymple quotes Jacquemont's memoirs...<>"He is a thinker who finds nothing but solitude in that exchange of words without ideas, which is dignified by the name of conversation in the society of this land." Throughout the book, he has had a parallel attention towards the people of Delhi..."The more I read, the more it becomes clear that the events of 1947 (referring to partition) were the key to understanding modern Delhi.
I'm not sure if I can call myself a Delhi-walla after reading City of Djinns.
How he deals with the shrewd Punjabi landlady Mrs Puri, or the refreshingly funny stories with his cab driver Balvinder Singh, amidst the noisy, heavily populated, sweltering hot Delhi, turn this into a book a reader can relate to, rather than just another bland volume of history.
To a reader, a travel enthusiast and a history buff, I highly recommend City of Djinns for the delightful book that it is, and to a Delhi-walla, for getting to know his Dilli better.
Despite  William Dalrymple's deeply upsetting background of being posh, and having wealthy relatives allowing him to potter around ancient castles in Scotland and seemingly taking random years off without having to work, it's a pretty inspiring read. There's more to Dehli than curry and he picks it apart to reveal the fascinating, multi-layered history beneath the stereotypical surface.It made me want to seek out the two Eighteenth Century books he used as a guide to learn more. And not only that, who knew Cliff Richard was an Anglo-Indian?Miss Lucy Ferguson, a top recommendation - I salute you!
I kept running into William Dalrymple's City of Djinns, which Brown is quoted in the accompanying squibs as saying it was his favorite travel book.Brown was only half right.
Under the guise of describing a year in Delhi, Dalrymple also goes back into the history of Delhi, ranging from even before the days of the Mahabharata, India's great national epic which is about as old as Homer's Iliad and Odyssey, all the way to the present day.
Also, I suspect that even as Brown's quote led me here, Dalrymple will lead me to more fascinating books.
I'd love to live in Delhi. I'd eat a chicken vindaloo every fucking day, smoke it up with the Sadhus, and see about these ethereal Djinns that rule over the cities unconsciousness.
I really feel like Dalrymple is some kind of hermaphrodite, who can't decide if he's proudly English or proudly Scottish/English, but he does spend the first part of the book ridiculing Indians who still think they're English, then 10 full days more trying to meet the city's eunuchs, so I guess that excuses his broad apologia for a Scottish governor and empire builder who allegedly embraced native culture by refusing to wear shoes and taking a harem of his own.
Like any book of this size, especially one about such an ancient and interesting topic, it has its valuable excerpts, which I'll try to share before dumping the book.
This book is an encyclopaedia for all common Dilliwalas and any Indian even slightly interested in knowing about Delhi and ancient India.
It is most fascinating when Dalrymple describes an ancient monument or place and then visits it in person to observe what it looks like.
He describes the lives of the people in times of Shah Jahan and in times of early British rule.
He even visits Pakistan to interview Ahemd Ali, the famous writer of ‘Twilight in Delhi.’This book clearly depicts Dalrymple’s love for India and it's people and their history (as does his books Nine Lives, The Age of Kali, The Last Mughal, The White Mughals etc).
William Dalrymple is the best travel writer(only exception is V.S.Naipaul)"In Delhi, right of way belongs to the driver of the largest vehicle", shows he wrote the book with exceptional observation.
Having breasts like mangoes", Second rate filthy expression of Mr Singh(his driver), reflects his playfulness and fearless humor.
I would like to end the review with a delicious sense of irony.
Just as Olivia (his wife) upon arrival of morning chai as a gesture from Mrs Puri(their landlord)said, "I wish she had sent it up two hours later".
I also wish this book had not finished for another two hours :)
My first experience of reading a William Dalrymple was with White Mughals when I was in class nine.
Until then, although I had always enjoyed reading History as part of the school curriculum, I hadn’t cared to venture into it any further outside of my textbooks.
I finally started to look for books which fell outside the broader fiction genre.City of Djinns was written almost a decade before White Mughals.
It’s witty and thoroughly engaging.
Read CoD for the fascinating amalgamation of experiences, discoveries, peoples, cultures, histories, and stories.
It’s certainly on my to do list for 2018.
When I was first told of this book, I was skeptical about reading it, as nonfiction is a genre which I had a completely irrational dislike for.
I'm glad to say that all my doubts vanished as soon as I read the first page of this book.
I was pulled into this book instantly and abandoned all my other "current-reads" for the time being.
Reading the descriptions I felt as if I myself was the one visiting the various places and landmarks mentioned throughout the book.
This definitely was a 5 star read for me and I know this is one book I won't mind rereading again and again.
Exquisite.
More importantly, it talks about the spirit of Delhi, which I must say, has been lost today.To quote Ahmed Ali " The civilisation that I belong to - the civilisation of Delhi - came into being through the mingling of two different cultures, Hindu and Muslim.
Caught in the story are the modern attitudes of people in Delhi, from the Sikh Landlady Mrs. Puri, to the driver who taken William Dalrymple around the city.
To everyone who has ever visited Delhi or lived there, pick up this book, and walk through each city while reading it.
This is the first of William Dalrymple that i am reading. Having being pushed into it via heavy recommendations, must say that WD fails to inspire. The book starts with a lot of promise but takes a meandering tone halfway through the narration. Delhi's intriguing past is a delicious topic that more than simply nudges your curiosity but WD is yet to bite a fulsome piece into it.Here's hoping that the latter half would live upto expectations!
What a spectacular book! My first Dalrymple and definitely not my last. I've fallen in love with Delhi all over again (which is supposed to be odd behaviour for a true-blue Mumbai girl) and can't wait to visit the city for a longer, more illuminating stay. I'm going to keep an eye out for all his other books.
The topic of the Mughals is prominently featured in the school curriculum and yet there is so much more to discover.
The book showcases and plots the life of the city of Delhi over the ages; its origins and its collapse, its resurgence and its history is all laid bare for us to peer into.
There was definitely much more that could have been done with it, especially with the pre Mughal period, but I think it wasn't the author's main interest and it only features in the last 40 pages or so.Overall, a really good book.
Would definitely read up on more of the author's works as he makes history interesting.
And built again only to be destroyed again, and again, and again; like a potter’s creation at the wheel, marvelled at for some time and then thrown again to the hearth by the vagarious potter who doesn’t want anyone else to see its beauty.Conquered by the mightiest of conquerors the world has ever seen, Delhi, apart from being their capital of power, was like a beautiful princess that every king or emperor vied for.
The ‘Red Fort’ receives a special mention and righty so; the throne from where was ruled most of India, all of Pakistan and great chunks of Afghanistan during the time of the celebrated Moghul Emperor Shah Jehan.
Dalrymple packs all these stories within a time-frame of a single year – so the title ‘City Of Djinns; A year in Delhi’ and this allows the author to bring the year-around social happenings, the life of its people, and even the climatic conditions of the city in to the narration.It won’t be an exaggeration if I say that as a humble reader who has thoroughly enjoyed this book, reading it felt like I was right there along with Dalrymple during each of his experiences unraveling the epic history and cultural vibrancy of this City.
He's definitely an oasis in the desert that is Indian-history writing.The City of Djinns trawls through time, peeling away layer by layer the city that is Delhi.
(according to the Moroccan traveller Ibn Battuta)City of Djinns keeps going back in time, tracing events that according to WD have made an impact on modern Delhi.
The book rounds of with on Delhi's pre-historic past which some believe to be the mysterious settlements of the Mahabharata.Overall, if you would like read about India, Delhi especially, you'll have to pick up City of Djinns.
From SolomonSays:William Dalrymple's City of Djinns: A year in Delhi is a perfect amalgamation of an informative travel guide, a beautiful retelling of the city's history and a very personal story...Although the book describes just one year of his stay in Delhi, the content has been drawn from the experiences he had over a couple of years.
The readers get a chance to know, probably for the first time in popular literature, about the hidden treasures of the Old Fort that date back to centuries ago and give a fresh direction to the talks and theories regarding the authenticity of Mahabharata and Indraprastha.In a nut shell, Dalrymple's City of Djinns is a must read for anyone who wants to learn more about the “whats” and more importantly the “whys” about Delhi and for everyone who has been eternally in love with the city.
I had moved away from this book a few times. It took me a long time getting around to finishing it. I loved it. Loved the way Delhi has been depicted through it's long history backwards. A very very good and interesting read.
He starts out with India's partition and reveals poignantly the chasm between the old Delhi-wallahs and the new Punjabi immigrants after partition.
In his research on the old Delhi-wallahs, Dalrymple even goes and meets Ahmed Ali, a quintessential old Delhi elite, who ends up in Karachi much against his will as a result of the partition of India.
'I won't put foot on that soil which was sacred to me and has been desecrated' says Ahmed Ali.Dalrymple also reflects deeply on the New Delhi of the architect Lutyens.
ডযালরিমপল সাহেব সসতরীক একবছর কাটিয়েছিলেন দিললি। আশির দশকের শেষের দিকের কথা। সেই সময়ের দিললি বনাম অতীতের দিললিকে একফরেমে আনতে চেয়েছেন উইলিয়াম ডযালরিমপল। সাফলয বযরথতা সমান সমান।পানডবদের ইনদরপরসথ থেকে বাহদুর শাহ জাফরের দিললি সুদীরঘ সময় ইতিহাস, মিথ কিংবা পঞচম জরজের রাজধানী ঘোষণা বনাম ইংরেজ শাসন সবই দিললিকে ভিননভাবে উপসথাপন করেছে।সকটিশ সাহেব ডযালরিমপল আসেন আশিরদশকের শেষে।যখন ইনদিরা নিহত হবার পর দিললির শিখরা কচুকাটা হয়েছে। পুরনো দিললির শানশওকত এখন অতীতের হা হুতাশ মাতর। ডযালরিমপলের বইয়ের বড় গুণ হল এখান

But of course the unbiased descriptions of incidents and actual research had made this book very addictive and once you start then you also feel the same way as author feels.
Basically william has written in travel book style so you feel the same way as you are also traveling those places .
Whenever he finds out a little about anything , we also start filling curious about it and later if he founds someone to talk about that ( I mean any breakthrough) we also became excited to meet him or visit that places .
But now visiting so many places of Delhi through William's eyes was more insightful.
With its rich cultural heritage Delhi has intrigued the interest of many a historian and traveller.
William Dalrymple has made an interesting attempt at unravelling the history of this age-old city.
A dedicated effort to research and sketch the portrait of a city disjointed in time, a city which has managed to preserve many varied centuries, frozen in time, at different areas.
Beginning with recent and familiar events the author goes backwards to the cavernous chambers of myth and legend holding the reader's interest with anecdotes and stories both from the past and present.
The author's scholarship is, as usual, impressive, but the city he is actually living in rarely comes alive as he describes its past in great detail, though at times with what seemed to me to be the introduction of stereotypical people chosen to illustrate points he is trying to make.
Indeed, all the of the people he encounters seem like stage characters.
Perhaps Dalrymple's youth at the time he wrote this book (he was barely 25) and his own British culture and prejudices kept him from from going deeper and finding the little bits that would have made the people he describes more three dimensional.He has done this much better in his more recent books.
