https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30071.The_Walking_Dead_Book_One
*In other words, I skimmed the first few pages, realized I'd forgotten all of the plot details, and started reading in earnest immediately.Stop judging me, Rick!Since I'm somewhat late to The Walking Dead phenomenon (Kelly has theorized that I'm some sort of ALIEN goddess from the stars), I'm going to try not to spoil anything for the other people from my planet.
Along with my speed-walking skills, I'm also the bitch who'd trip a child, in order to give the zombies a snack-like distraction to chew on, while I made my fleet-footed escape.
Overall, the drawing stands out above the writing, which is limited largely to dialogue with the occasional exclamatory word, 60s Batman style.
The show also does more with the tension of group leadership; Shane (view spoiler)[ gets killed off relatively quickly in the graphic version, while his character provides a foil for most of the second season on t.v. I think keeping him provided dynamic tension, and made more sense in the creating challenging group dynamics.
(hide spoiler)]Noticeably, the graphic version has a little more sex/sexual tension subplots going, including one between a couple of teens that don't appear on the show, one between two people that do (but isn't explored), and one between a white single mom and a black man.
When I began to travel the path of the Walking Dead in comics! This is the first volume of the hardcover editions of "The Walking Dead", collecting the comic book issues from #1 to #12.My general rating is an average result of the sum of the ratings of each chapter in this harcover edition.Creative Team:Writer: Robert KirkmanIllustrators: Tony Moore (Chapter One) & Charlie Adlard (Chapter Two)Additional gray tones to inking: Tony Moore (Chapter One) & Cliff Rathburn (Chapter Two)Chapter
The work of Charlie Adlard in the rest of chapters is really good too, specially on the details of things and backgrounds, but definitely if I’d be able to choose, my pick would be on Tony Moore, it was sad that he won’t keep doing the illustrations on the rest of the comic book series.
Some of the female characterization was downright offensive, like the unattractive, humourless middle-aged woman (who dies) who dares to question the fact that the men are out hunting while the women are doing laundry - she is brushed aside with the pithy explanation that, hey, we don't know how to shoot guns, and our menfolk don't know how to do laundry, silly!
What's up with the sniper who's totally fine shooting people at the orders of a crazed despot, until he makes her kill a baby, and then her maternal instinct or whatever kicks in because didn't you know, WOMEN ONLY CARE ABOUT BABIES AND FOOD AND LAUNDRY AND THEIR STRAPPING MEN.
Who knows the impact it's had upon indie comics, the horror genre, and drama television.Let's start with the zombie elephant in the room.
Charlie Adlard is solid, but his character design is lacking by comparison.
Hopefully later volumes are better without this awkward transition.
Would it look great with colors like Outcast?
No complaints whatsoever.What's interesting is how the supernatural element in The Walking Dead compares to Outcast.
Whereas in Outcast the demons are integral to the plot and character development.
So if you don't like zombies you should still be able to enjoy this story, because it's really about human drama in a zombie world.
So the Volumes are around 150 pages, and the Books are a bit longer, 320 or so pages; they come with extras -- like the original single-issue covers, and miscellaneous artwork from Charlie Adlard and Tony Moore -- that the softcover Volumes do not.
While Adlard has been the series artist for a very long time, and does a brilliant, remarkably quick, and consistent job, Tony Moore's art in Book 1 played a big part in the success of 'The Walking Dead'; unfortunately, he couldn't keep up with the unforgiving monthly pace.
After trudging through pages and pages of one-dimensional character sludge and one too many sequences of dialogue about canned food, I just couldn't do it anymore.
I enjoy post-apocalyptic survival stories as much as anyone, but I expected so much more; especially considering all the hype surrounding this title (from the rave reviews on Amazon and GoodReads to the upcoming TV show).
If you're into human psychology and the like, maybe you'll enjoy this as a sort of post-apocalyptic case study of human nature.
Except for maybe Rick, but even he lacked the spark of a memorable personality.Want an interesting post-apocalyptic (Yo)Rick, read Y: The Last Man.

The story of Officer Rick Grimes and cohorts moves forward through a world of devastation and zombies to include the horrific accident near the farm all the way through to finding the prison....and what's behind all the fences and corridors inside.
Book One also includes a short special holiday story featuring Morgan and Duane, some great character sketches to keep everyone straight, and some really cool color artwork designs.
If I had a wish, it would be that this series of hardcover books were entirely in color, but that won't deter me from reading and purchasing the rest.
Wonderful artwork and good writing (I read this in French translation while in Paris, but I assume it was just as well done in the original).
It doesn't really add anything original to the whole zombie thing, and starts the same way as 28 Days Later.
Not to mention that all the ass-kicking and fighting is done by men, men, men--the women wash the laundry and scream and run from zombies and drop their guns and are fought over by men.
If the later issues aren't any better on this front, I'll have to stop reading.
Well written, solid art...I get why people like it. Just didn't quite click for me.
Over the next ten weeks, I will be reviewing one Walking Dead book per week, to try and stave off the hunger for more episodes of the show.
And then Rick sets off again, on his way to Atlanta to find his family.The story brings together a group of everyday people – delivery drivers, students, mechanics, retirees, mums, dads, kids, siblings – as they make their way through this world full of new dangers, in their search for a safe place.As a long time devourer of novels I never really bothered with comics, until a couple of years ago when I started buying all of the Walking Dead books and powering through them.
I was introduced to the Walking dead via the television series, which I especially enjoyed so I've been keen to see how the originating graphic novel compares.So the comic?
Rather than balance dialogue with narration, the Walking Dead is only populated by the out-loud voices of the characters.
Also due the fast pacing of the story I oddly also found myself struggling to enjoy the visuals because the story rushed past so quickly.Ultimately when comparing to the televison series, I would recommend fans just stick with the show, unless they are absolutely die hard.
I wish I had read these before I watched the show.
The characters are much more raw, and I identify with them less.
I even dislike most of them, including Rick.
I do realize that in an actual situation like a zombie apocalypse, it would be extremely unlikely that one person would remain the voice of reason in every stressful situation.
Everyone would snap once in a while.
The lack of a reliable "leader" made each setback almost unbearable.
I have to say that I like Rick's character better in the show.
I guess it's good to know that someone's going to be looking after the laundry when the world ends...?
Wild guess, but I got the sense that this is not a writer who knows a whole lot about people or relationships.
I could go on to make guesses about some deep-seated mother hatred, but I will just get on with it and say that writers like this don't produce interesting stories, the end.
And while I am disliking this book, what the hell is the point of the "A Continuing Story..." subtitle?
It's awkward, and anyway, "book one" seems to pretty much cover that.
We just got these at the library and I'm finally getting around to reading them, after enjoying the first two seasons of the show.
The comics do not disappoint.
The artwork's great, and the dialog and writing are excellent.
If you've seen the show and not read the books, you'll likely be a bit surprised by how QUICKLY everything seems to happen in the comics -- stuff that takes half a season on TV takes maybe two or three issues in the book.
So far it doesn't strike me as terribly misogynistic, but I can also understand why some folks have taken issue with it.
Since I have become somewhat obsessed and season 3 is coming to a close, I thought perhaps I should give the Graphic books a try.
Also, not being able to get into the characters heads like you would with a novel...well, I guess I still struggle with that...perhaps with more experience, I will be able to get past that.With my love of all things Walking Dead, I am going to continue with this series and I do recommend it to those who are fans of the AMC series.
Not surprisingly...all the stars.Since I can't have this...I decided to give the comic a try. I really enjoyed this. I have never read a comic or graphic novel before this, but after all the amazing reviews I have read on GR, I thought it was about time. I am a HUGE fan of the show and I was really shocked how different this was. It was so fun to read and get both perspectives.Book 2 here I come!!
So let me tell you my attributes so you can judge my review of this piece.First, I'm not a huge graphic novel/comic book reader.
And finally, I've been watching the show, so I already have preconceived notions of how the story should unfold.With all that said, let me say I really enjoyed this graphic novel.
The downfall is really that the depth of character that cannot be expressed fully in such a medium without the reader making assumptions and filling in gaps.Finally, and this seems to be an ever present predicament with zombie stories, HOW DID YOU NOT KNOW THERE WAS A ZOMBIE WITHING BITING DISTANCE OF YOU!?!
The artist changes though, starting from the 7th issue (or chapter 2 in this book) and it was kind of a let-down for me to be honest, because the art was absolutely flawless in the beginning.
The art is still really good but i can't help but compare it to the first issues.
I guess i shouldn't compare the comics to the tv show because they're almost two completely different productions, but i just thought that things happened somewhat abruptly in this book, like it didn't flow smoothly somehow.
Other than that, it was really good.
The Walking Dead was the first graphic novel that I have ever read.
It took a bit of time understanding and getting used to how graphic novels are read but once I got use to it I really enjoyed it.
So much so that I had to convince the fiancé now to open up book 2 so I could start reading it.
I did watch Season 1 and Season 2 before I read the novels.
I liked that fact that with graphic novels its feels more about the story than the descriptions of looks and landscape because you get to see it!
Graphic Novel vs.
Since the series is too violent for me to watch on TV, and my husband watches it over and over and over again, he bought me the graphic novel for my birthday.
It's the first graphic novel that I've ever read, and I enjoyed the experience.
It's just that I found the zombies to be a distraction from the people in the story, which were much more interesting in my opinion.Nevertheless, I have a feeling that I will be getting The Walking Dead, Book Two as one of my gifts for Christmas.Overall, I recommend this book.
As a longtime fan of the TV series, this book had been gifted to me several months ago and has since been sitting on my shelf.
Luckily, this is one of the rare graphic novel series on my library's shelf so I had no qualms about starting it when I'd genuinely be able to finish without spending an arm and leg.
I loved getting to know the characters of this story, particularly the ones that didn't get the opportunity to develop on the TV series.
The only thing I didn't particularly like were the romantic stories every which way.
I love the TV show and it was really great to go back to the start with this comic and see the characters grow and develop all over again.
I really liked being able to compare plot points and character arcs!
There is swearing and sex and some vulgarity but I think it works so perfectly because it feels more realistic than the show where someone dies and they are like 'oh darn I have been bitten that is it for me goodbye world'.
Realistically you would get bit and just be like 'HOLY FUCKING SHIT TITS OMG' and then die.
This is the first graphic novel I have read, as an adult, and am very impressed with the introduction into the genre. This is a great story of horror that has the reader literally sitting on the edge of the seat. What I enjoy most about the Walking dead the most in the unpredictability of it. Characters can die at any given moment. This creates continued suspense throughout producing a real page turner.
This is my first graphic novel and I loved reading it. There were some issues with it though. How women are portrayed in the comics.. Weak and only useful as sexual objects..except Michonne that is. I also had trouble with the timeline as a reference.. The only indicator was the seasons. I also like the fact that there's characters in the book that aren't on the tv show.
What a gripping read. Characters are brilliant and the tension and stress of living amongst the zombies is really well written. Love the illustrations too, wonderfullly graphic, gory undead! Cannot wait to get started on Book 2 and also watch the TV series.
The characters are thinner than the paper they're printed on and their motivations are just as flimsy.The TV series is far better in this regard, with a firmer grasp on how to dole out the story as well as sustaining tension.
It was a good idea for the series to deviate from the book, because the structure they've used there works much better.
Taking out some of the dialogue and letting his art do the work of telling the story would go a long way toward giving the book more heft and the characters more depth.
Like most people, I was introduced to The Walking Dead through the TV Show.
I'm a massive zombie fan.
I have no problem watching the cheesiest zombie films going.
I fell in love with The Walking Dead instantly.
I actually thought about giving up but then I brought the boxset, binged again and loved it.
But the thing I really dislike about the show is the Characters.
I was really interested to see what these characters would be like in their original forms.
And I haven't wished for Andrea dead once.
The zombies look good though and the artwork in colour at the back is stunning.
I know the television series came around because of the comics/graphic novels, but in parts I would say that the television show is a little better.
I have been a fan since if first came on, and just recently gotten the chance to start the book series.
You want feel like you are reading the t.v. series for sure.
So, if you're thinking I have seen the show, there is no reason to read the books, you are wrong.
I seriously think that this book is the only one I have ever seen him read, and he read it in just a few days.
