https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1203197.The_Journeyman
Yet another book I would have never picked up if it hadn't been in our home-school curriculum, but one I ended up truly liking. I just loved Jared Austin. I loved his attitude about everything. So many lessons to be learned from one character.
This book is about Jared, an apprentice to a house painter for some time. The journeyman is fiction. This book takes place in the United States and starts in Massachusetts. The problem in this book is when a girl that Jared likes is engaged to Corban Cristy. The Journeyman starts when a house painter named Mr. Toppan comes by, and Jared becomes his apprentice. Then they travel all around New England decorating houses. My favorite part of The Journeyman is when Jared and Mr. Toppan are at a hotel
This book is about Jared, an apprentice to a house painter for some time.
This book takes place in the United States and starts in Massachusetts.
The problem in this book is when a girl that Jared likes is engaged to Corban Cristy.
The Journeyman starts when a house painter named Mr. Toppan comes by, and Jared becomes his apprentice.
My favorite part of The Journeyman is when Jared and Mr. Toppan are at a hotel and decorate the upstairs room for the hotel, because that’s when Mr. Toppan is teaching Jared about painting the houses.
So read this book!
I remember reading this for middle school so yeah mainly adding for cataloging purposes.
I read this book with my 10 year old daughter, I loved the way the writer describes the way craft and art was pass down from master to apprentice, and the love of the art itself, it also dabs into the superstition that shrouded the American people at the beginning of the US.My daughter loved to compare our lifestyle with the women in the book, how busy they sounded! How many responsibilities they had, they were true providers for their children and families in general.
I really enjoy this book each time I read it. The author has a real way with words and her descriptions flow!
This story, written for young teens, was . . . nice. Just really nice. I enjoyed the setting: New England in the early 1800s. I enjoyed learning about the craftsmanship of the main character: an itinerant stenciler. And I enjoyed the light plot: farmers trying to make life work despite cruel winters and cold summers.
Enjoyed the book very much
I think this book was beautiful and inspiring! It tells the story of a young boy as he journeys into adulthood. It gives a beautiful glimpse into life in early America. It's shows just how much of a struggle it was to survive! The book holds little kernels of wisdom within its pages! It also inspired me as an artist to stick with projects! It was a good one time read and I learned a lot from it! But it didn't hold within its pages the ability to be a classic.
My daughter is very art minded and really enjoyed the whole idea of this book. It was a great story with a nice ending that kept you holding on until the end.
Another wonderful read by Elizabeth Yates.
An interesting view of the early 1800s. Beautiful descriptions, a really enjoyable read. Beauty and the need for it is definitely a theme.
Didn't expect to like this one as much as we did! Great story about a boy named Jared Austin who becomes an itinerant painter. And how New Hampshireans survive the terrible winter of 1815-1816.
I loved this book. It has beautiful language and an honorable main character. It explores the idea of beauty as a necessity for humanity, but in a way that can also engage young readers.
This is a classic story with a beautiful message of faith.Jared Austin, a young boy abused by his grieving and embittered father, is given a second chance at life and happiness as the apprentice of a journeyman painter.
Along the way he must learn to forgive and love, and what it means to carry faith and courage in his heart.Elizabeth Yates, as always, does a superb job of bringing to life the qualities and graces of our pioneer forefathers.
Jared, Mr. Toppan, and all of the farmers and their families are brought to life with a skilled and loving pen.
Finish Jared's journey with 

There are some pretty deep themes in this book that made for some GREAT discussion. Katie and I were able to talk about idleness leading to gossip, and how completely it can damage someone's reputation. This author is very descriptive, which makes some passages slow, but keep persevering! It is worth every word! The same author wrote "Mountain Born," which was also lovely and made me cry. (I do not cry very easily when reading books.)
This book was rich in so many ways. I loved the blend of faith, nature and art. I enjoyed following Jared through his many challenges. His character is a wonderful example. It is definitely a new favorite for me.
Part of kids school curriculum; my 9 year old daughter and I both loved this one. My 11 year old son pretended not to because of the love story element but he was engaged throughout. I loved the chapters where Jared is learning to become an artist and to draw his inspiration from nature.
Absolutely outstanding book about a young, gifted journeyman painter who finds himself the object of cruel gossip when people start accusing him of causing the brutally cold winter of 1816 in New Hampshire (and all of New England) that destroyed crops and stock, and led to starvation and death.
This isn't a feel-good story. But you can't help struggling alongside the hero and the girl he loves. You will also find yourself thankful for global warming after enduring the year of "eighteen hundred and froze to death"
Great book! The kids loved it too. I don't know why but I have always been fascinated by the history of itinerancy, particularly in New England. What a different world we live in now. It makes me wish I lived in simpler, more friendly times.
this book is the best fiction book ever! it was nicely written, very clean, and extremely hard to put down.
This is a story about a rarely covered topic--the early traveling skilled worker. Although it's a little slow in places and has a fairly simple plot, it was still a good read.
The beginning of this book is slightly boring, but a wonderful story unfolds for those who persevere! I enjoyed this book.
Third grade homeschool read aloud.
I love this book about an itinerant painter painting stencils throughout the NE countryside!
Just get through the beginning, and then you will start seeing things with Jared, and it has a very good part at the end you have to read to get to!
Elizabeth Yates paints the world with her words.
Read with my boys. Good historical fiction with a lesson in faith.
This book was a little confusing. Had to read it for school... And wasn't a fan...
