https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46227.Ask_the_Dust
Or, to quote another influential poet of my youth, "parents just don't understand."Flash forward another fourteen years, the last five or so of them being spent living in Los Angeles.
and then of course all the dusty urban imagery that in sixty-five years has gone essentially unchanged and will likely continue to do so well into the future.It's the telltale sign of good, strong writing when you get the feeling that someone has been reading your mail (or email).
John Fante was Bukowski's god, and "either you adore him or you've never heard of him." Writing that's raw, swolen, true, and moving from a macro view of paragraph by paragraph, tectonic plates, words that are so organic, you never think about the words, they're tendons and muscles and joins that are by themselves ordinary yet Fante's voice is bold, heroic, cowardly, greedy, broken, blindingly joyful, I would follow him anywhere.
It's rare that I buy a copy of a book I've already read, if I didn't own it to begin with.
I needed to own Ask the Dust.
Arturo Bandini is young, penniless, naïve and inexperienced and he seems to be a hopeless dreamer but he has a purpose in life.
I sat before it, overwhelmed with grief for Arturo Bandini.
It only wanted to help me, dear little bird.
Its title suggests it to be sad and it is.A knock on the window.
Someone was knocking on the window of that house obscured by heavy vines.
And how shall I prevent that paralysis of thought, and that inundation of blood making my senses reel?
I shall die without it!
Here goes my 200th book report since joining Goodreads.And my introduction to the fiction of John Fante is Ask the Dust, his 1939 novel considered by some scholars and educators to be one of the best works of fiction set in the Great Depression and the best set in Los Angeles.
With little more than his imagination and a typewriter, Fante sketches Depression-era Los Angeles as vividly as the three greatest L.A. movies--Chinatown (1974), Blade Runner (1982) and  L.A. Confidential (1997)--were able to do with an army of visual artists.
This is accounting for the threadbare nature of the story, the unwillingness of Fante/Bandini to really explore Camilla, Sammy, Vera, or anyone else in Los Angeles.
This book was beautifully depressing. I read it because Charles Bukowski loved John Fante so much and I was not let down. The story had a depressed swagger that was believable even though it was about a time mostly remembered for glamor.
*جزء مما قاله تشارلز بوكوفسكي عن الرواية :في البدء كان تشارلز بوكوفسكي ..تصفحت الرواية وأنا أقوم بتر
I couldn't care less about modern LA, it's something about private eyes and coniving starlets with loose morals in gang run speak easys that gets me going.
The book was destined to sit on the side of my bed with the other 10 books I'm half way through and will finish sometime before 2010.Then on a random Saturday afternoon, camping in the Redwoods, about half way through my second 22 of Lagunitas Mother IPA I locked in.
And in it's finishing pages when the small plastic cup of IPA was gone and the whiskey was burning strong I closed Ask the Dust with a bang and threw that fucker into the desert.Bandini!
But, I have to smile, for the salt of the sea is in my blood, and there may be ten thousand roads over the land, but they shall never confuse me, for my heart's blood will ever return to its beautiful source.The glorious face of the greatest editor, J.C. Hackmuth, a God of magazine publishers, gazes benevolently on the castawayed writer.
I liked about Fante how I felt sorry for the charitable Japanese fruit dealer when Arturo bypasses his stall to blow an unexpected windfall (weeell, a deadbeat returns fifteen cents so he can get it adds up later) on two dozen cookies.
Πριν απο αρκετο καιρο, ειχα διαβασει το βιβλιο του Bukowski, "το μονο που νοιαζει ειναι να ξυνομαι σ
Çarpıcı ve ilginç bir kitaptı. Yazarın okuduğum ilk kitabı, yıllardır denk gelirdim okumamıştım keşke daha önce deneseymişim çok beğendim. Sıradışı bir sadelik ve gerçekçilikle yazılmış hikaye. Baş karakter Bandini'yi Yabancı (Albert Camus)'daki Mersault'a benzettim biraz. Her şeyden kopuk ve bağlanmakla ilgisi yok. Yaptıkları ile hissettikleri taban tabana zıt, bazen elinde olmadan kötü gibi. Bir çok zaman herkesin olduğu gibi aslında. İnsanın kendisine bakmasını sağlıyor gibi yazar. Hikayenin fonunda Amerika'nın nerden kaynaklandığına anlam veremediğim Amerikalı Irkçılığı ve ikinci dünya savaşı olduğu eleştirel bir mesajla hissettiriliyor gibi geldi bana. Güzel kitaptı tavsiye ederim.
بالنسبة لي هذه الرواية مدرسة في فن كتابة الرواية من أجمل ما قرأت مؤخرا
Instead, it is a hotwired connection to the mind of Arturo Bandini, the manic writer manifested in this and two other books Fante wrote.
In Ask the Dust, Bandini feels everything whether in proximity or imagined but it all channels through this one man in a frightening rush, and this man, ill equipped to survive even without the encumbering of being the universe's conduit, is ravaged by the unending spurt of life.
I've considered the possibility that this book actually takes place with a catatonic Bandini sitting in that dour Bunker Hill apartment, his synapses sparking out like burnt fuses, manufacturing this wild life of devastating failures punctuated by successes.
Fante's such an easy read that I should have been finished that night, but I can't even seem to feign an interest in fiction lately.
To hell with that Hitler, this is more important than Hitler, this is about my book.
Books such as Ask the Dust seem to fall into the "hey, listen-to-me-becoming-a-great-writer" category.
Maybe the idea of the struggling writer trying to make a name for himself in Los Angeles appealed to the sympathies of the difficult times in which these books were written.
I've often heard Bukowski compared to Fante.
Maybe I just can't stand needless arguments about which piece of crap is better.
Un giovane innamorato di una ragazza selvaggia, tanto diversa da lui, e con la quale si lancia in un disperato gioco di tira e molla, che non fa che lasciarlo solo e ferito.Quando mi ero soffermata a leggere la descrizione della trama in quarta di copertina ad opera di Baricco, che parlava di “romanzo costruito su tre storie” ho pensato che “Chiedi alla polvere” fosse appunto una raccolta di racconti: invece no, perché poi Baricco parla di “Immaginate di fondere le tre storie, facendo convergere i tre ventenni (lo scrittore, il cattolico, l’italoamericano innamorato) in un unico ventenne e otterrete Arturo Baldini”, quindi ho capito che la storia era una sola.
Fuck this book. "I acted like a racist douchebag toward a girl I like/hate because I've experienced racism myself, and then I sexually assualted her. Later, I felt sad she was gone forever." Arturo Bandini writes charmingly, and the setting and (non)plot are super inviting, but Jesus Christ, I expected so much more from a press (Black Sparrow) that's supposed to be cool and an author with such an old-timey mystique. Fuck this.
لا أذكر أني قرأت شيئًا ما من قبل بمثل هذا الصدق, و مع الذات قبل الآخر, فانتي كاتب صادق بشكل مرعب, تم
Dio Mio, amico, ti rendi conto che non sei mai stato una donna?
Non conoscete Arturo Bandini?Come no… via!
Quel che fa Arturo Bandini è sempre ben fatto.
Quel che scrive Arturo Bandini è sempre ben scritto.
L’elogio di sé è necessario, come sempre è necessaria l’apologia, perché, per quanto il lettore medio sia suscettibile al fascino del Bandini, vede bene – lo vede pure l’occhio meno acuto – che l’Arturo Bandini in potenza si trasforma raramente nel Bandini in atto.
Il possesso della vita nella letteratura.
Il possesso della donna nella vita – Camilla.
But boy oh boy, I didn't know I was diving into a love story; what's more, one that would pull at my guts, my blood, my hair, my teeth and - yes -, by the very end, also my heartstrings.
It's hard to pull off a nuanced character we can all laugh at and deeply relate to at the same time.
All in all, a great read that takes the black rotten understuff of the everyman's psyche and rejoices in framing it as human and beautiful.
I'd read more of Fante's ugly understuff any day.
ما الذي يجعل بوكوفسكي يكتب تقديما تبجيليا لهذه الرواية، يكتب تقديما يجعلك تتصور أن هذه الرواية من أع
E mentre fisso il muro bianco e penso a qualcosa di intelligente da dire riguardo Chiedi alla polvere tutto ciò che mi viene in mente è che esistono libri più taglienti di lame e che Fante doveva essere un grande stronzo.Perché quando scrivi così maledettamente bene e scrivi vite che hanno la forma di tragedia costringendo la gente a leggerle, allora sei davvero un grande, grandissimo, perfido stronzo maledettamente, dannatamente, immensamente bravo a scrivere.
Ask the Dust functions as Arturo Bandini's (fictional) first person account of his rising and falling and rising (etc.) as a young Colorado writer new to California.
Mr. Bukowski (in the edition I read, anyway) schools introduction-writers with his brief, direct articulation of his Fante admiration.
I couldn't help but consider if Fante, like Bandini, was sabotaging himself.That said, Ask the Dust is required reading for people into that whole drunk crazy writer thing.
This book was probably innovative for its time and deserves shelf-space next to the writers Fante influenced.
I just wish the excellent Ask the Dust hadn't faltered near the finish line.
Finalmente “O Cãozinho Riu”, foi publicado por dez dólares: “era uma história de ler e chorar por mais e nem sequer falava de um cão: uma história brilhante, pura poesia.”Bandini é, simultaneamente, um convencido e um descrente, dominado por um comportamento misógeno, fruto da sua educação católica, em desespero pelo desejo de sexo, mas incapaz de consumar a sua excitação inicial, confirmando essa incapacidade na cena com a prostituta.A instável mexicana Camilla Lopez, é empregada de bar no Columbia Buffet, e exerce em Bandini uma atracção explosiva, de amor e de ódio, numa relação conflituosa, enquadrada por um triângulo amoroso com Sammy.O estilo narrativo de “Pergunta ao Pó” é muito mais moderado do que “A Primavera Há-de Chegar, Bandini” e “Estrada para Los Angeles”, a linguagem é menos virulenta, mas Fante consegue manter um humor sarcástico, hilariante e genuíno dominado pelos comportamentos erráticos e arrogantes do Arturo Bandini – que afinal de contas ainda é um adolescente – num final comovente e trágico.
إذن اسأل الغبار قصة حزينة، ليست قصة ممتعة أبداً، وأعتقد أن جميعنا نتتفق مع تشارلز بوكوفسكي حين كتب عنها أنها "كُتبت عن ومن الصميم والقلب" .
ترجمه عالی نبود ولی خیلی خوب بود و معلوم بود.
مترجم زحمت کشیده بود.
مقدمه ی مترجم مال حدود ده سال پیش بود و زمان اولین چاپ کتاب مال یک سال پیش.
اولش تعجب کردم اما در حین خوندن کتاب، حدس زدم مترجم زیر بار حذفیات وزارت ارشاد نرفته و حالا کتاب با کمینه ی حذفیات به چاپ رسیده.
اولِ کتاب، قهرمان داستان درگیر فقر بود و دغدغه ی اصلیش نوشتن بود اما از یک سوم انتهای کتاب دغدغه اش به کلی عوض شد و سخاوتمندانه پول خرج می کرد که این به نظرم ا
مقدمه ی مترجم مال حدود ده سال پیش بود و زمان اولین چاپ کتاب مال یک سال پیش.
اولش تعجب کردم اما در حین خوندن کتاب، حدس زدم مترجم زیر بار حذفیات وزارت ارشاد نرفته و حالا کتاب با کمینه ی حذفیات به چاپ رسیده.
اولِ کتاب، قهرمان داستان درگیر فقر بود و دغدغه ی اصلیش نوشتن بود اما از یک سوم انتهای کتاب دغدغه اش به کلی عوض شد و سخاوتمندانه پول خرج می کرد که این به نظرم از معایب بزرگ داستان بود.
اما توصیفات خیلی خوبی داشت.دوستداران بوکفسکی و سلین و کرواک به احتمال زیاد این کتاب رو خواهند پسندید.
Bukowski tavsiye ettiği için (hatta Fante’yi tanrısı ilan ettiği için) Bukowski’ye çok benzer bir metin okuyacağımı düşünerek kitaba başladım.
Ana karakter (Arturo Bandini), çokça örneğini gördüğümüz bir yazar adayı ve onun yaşadıkları (Martin Eden/J.London ve Açlık/K.Hamsun ‘dan aşina olduğumuz üzere).
Arturo, gel gitleri bol bir karakter, kimi yerde mizaha kayan bir ruh hali içerisinde.
Hayat böyle yaşanmalıydı, gayesizce dolaşarak, bir mola ve yola devam, beyaz çizgiyi izle, bir sigara yak ve çölün şaşırtıcı göğünde anlamları ara boşuna” (S.145)Diğer karakterler çok uçlarda yaşayan tipler; Camillia Lopez, Sammy, Vera Rivken..
Hepsi çok baskın, çok kaotik ve çok kararlı karakterler..
Arturo Bandini insanla hayvan arasında bir ayrım görmez sever ama göstermez sevmez ama cebindeki her kuruşu yağmurda ıslanmasın diye gönderir çok ister ama hiçbirşey yapmaz karanlıkta oturup düşünür.. hem hüzünlü hem neşeli hem yaşar hem izler.. şahitse sadece toz....gördüğüm en canlı diyalektik kahraman..
çok gerçek, yalın bir dili var kitabın. sevdim aslında. Fante'nin diğer kitaplarını da okuyacağım.Ama Bukowski değilim sonuçta. onun kadar etkilenmedim.
Bandini è un individualista, uno sbruffone, è anche un sognatore e un generoso, è un uomo in perenne conflitto con sé stesso, tra ciò che vorrebbe essere e ciò che è: vorrebbe diventare uno scrittore ricco e famoso, invece è uno sconosciuto scrittore di racconti; vorrebbe essere ateo, invece il cattolicesimo in cui è stato cresciuto da sua madre è parte integrante del suo essere; vorrebbe essere moralmente integro, invece è un peccatore; vorrebbe fare l’amore con Camilla, invece non ci riesce; vorrebbe che Camilla lo amasse, invece lei ama un altro, uno che non vale un’unghia di Bandini e per di più non la vuole neanche.
Arturo Bandini fa tenerezza, fa anche rabbia in certi momenti quando lo vedi fare o dire o non dire qualcosa di cui si pente immediatamente dopo averla fatta, detta o non detta, ma Bandini non si può odiare.
***KINDLE EDITION $1.99 TODAY, 23 JUNE 2014I rated this 4 stars because, when I first read it in the early 1980s, it riveted me. I've taken a star off because after 30-plus years the chances are it's not going to get close to 5 stars, since I've read so very much more by now.Well, we shall see. I've Kindled it up, it's a short book (under 200pp), and I feel daring.
Στην Καμίγια, με αγάπηΑρτούρο!Ο καταραμένος έρωτας κ η αγωνία των ακραίων αντιθέσεων που όμως τόσο μοιάζουν να συγκλίνουν
