https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239239.The_Prestige
True, the novel begins and ends at a country estate in modern-day England where journalist Andrew Westley and Lady Kate Angier, both young and single, take turns narrating as they sit together and move about in Kate’s family mansion, however this is but the frame – the bulk of the narrative consists of the respective diaries of two of their long dead ancestors, Alfred Borden and Rupert Angier, illustrious stage magicians who had been engaged in a bitter, vindictive rivalry protracted over many years, beginning in the late nineteenth century.
I thought I knew the real story based on the movie, but I was WRONG.I love the epistolary nature of the novel and how the story stretches through time, but my favorite bits were all between the two warring illusionists.
I really loved it.
I really loved it.
It turned a mystery and a rivalry story into true science fiction of the highest caliber.
I refuse to give away the really good stuff in the novel.And it's really good.
:) Great characters, great mystery, and great Prestige: the final result of the magic trick.
That said the book does end on a very mysterious note but I shall leave you to observe that magic for yourselves.
Ah but I will not tell you how it works you see because I - like all true magicians - must carry out living the secret of my grand illusion to ensure no one knows how I perform such a trick.
(exits in a flash of smoke and falling curtains)End note: You know how there are times when you read a book and you go away and forget about it now matter how good the book was?
Now every time I see a magic trick I think of the various stages of performing that trick...
The novel is suggestive of the supernatural, and has decidedly gothic overtones; ostensibly about the world of 19th-century stage magic, but altogether a stranger tale, exploring a fantastic world of disappearances and doubles.From near the beginning of the novel:“I remember someone once saying that the trouble with magic was that the more a magician protects his secrets, the more banal they turn out to be.”“What will seem new or baffling to an audience is simply a technical challenge for other professionals.”Christopher Priest, in an interview about The Prestige, said:“I’ve always been interested in misdirecting my readers in my novels, and magicians use techniques of misdirection that are similar.
The Prestige by Christopher PriestMy rating: 4 of 5 starsNot even close to what I was expecting, thankfully.Blurb: Turn of the 20th Century London, two stage magicians embark on a feud of a lifetime propelling both of them to fame and fortune, pain and despair and a couple of shocking discoveries along the way, also framed by the meeting of their great grandchildren still living with the aftermath of the feud.Thoughts: At its core Christopher Priest's The Prestige (completely different entity

Like many other readers, I ended up preferring the film to the book as the film is a lot more tightly woven and provides better motivations for the characters' actions.The story, for those of you who don't know, centres on two Victorian magicians who strike up a feud and spend the next twenty years sabotaging each other's shows and trying to outperform each other, each coming up with a spectacular disappearing act to which the other wants to find out the secret.
I realise it's hard to write a story about an obsessive feud without making the characters quite unlikeable, but still, I think Priest could have done a better job on these two.
Dueling illusionists' ongoing battle in the late Victorian era has consequences for future generations.
This is a masterpiece of epistolary style writing.
The reader is set up, mirroring the art of the illusionist.
The Prestige explores issues relating to social class and gender, artistry vs science, one's perspective shaping the truth, and the dangers of limitless ambition.
The illusionists' duel and their quest to be true masters provides for a couple of intriguing Faustian bargains in this truly marvelous novel.
Yet we, as readers, are also being deceived until it all finally unravels.
One of the best novels in a structural sense that I've read.
More importantly, the movie succeeded in obscuring plotholes where the novel did not.Nevertheless, much like the magic trick at the centre of Christopher Priest's The Prestige, the original version is more inventive for having been the first and all the more enjoyable for not having technology as an aid to bolster the haunting tale.It's a damn fine book that is more than able to stand on its own.
It would have been nice to experience it without knowing what the hell was going on, but then I'm also glad to have had that experience with Christopher Nolan's version.
Saw the movie not so recently, but I have to agree with almost everyone, when I say I prefer actually movie.
This rarely happens!
Of course, book has such a interesting story, and I liked it.
And I like how Priest wrote about Nikola Tesla (who is (Tesla) my favourite historical figure, ever).
At times confusing, both movie and the book.
But, essentially- what is important is to see how every story has like, three sides, and how revenge blinds us.
So, this book I will rate with 3 stars (I'd probably give it 3,5 if that was possible!).
Oddly enough, not as good as the movie!
And that's what I would like to discuss here.Chris Nolan's treatment of the book was brilliant, precisely because of the medium; fast-paced, fore-shadowing, and with a judicious and welcome lack of gratuitous violence and special effects.
But it doesn't do justice to the subject matter that Chris Priest wanted to, and effectively did, explore.Priest's book is a marvel no less worthy precisely because it is a book!
The book is written in three parts, each part representing one of the three elements of a magic act, and each part cleverly reflects the nature of the element it represents (bear that in mind when reading nay-sayers who think the opening setting is irrelevant).
Certain subjects, in this case stage magic, hold a lot of appeal for me and a good book about those subjects is going to be well received by me.
I loved the movie also, but this book is quite different in a lot of ways.
It’s a great example of how a good screen writer can adopt and change the author’s ideas and emphasis and still come up with a good movie.
Since the movie magicians have adopted the term and it’s use is now common.
My reading was heavily influenced by knowing the major spoilers.
Unreliable narrators, stupid feuds with real consequences that made them impossible to let go, destroying your own life through choices.
Each man had a chance at normal family life and ended up following their lust at some point.
Each man wrote of wanting to give up the feud, of trying to reach out to the other and being rebuffed.
Each man clearly tailored their record of incidents.
I don't understand the purpose of the cult that started out the story, except it maybe implied, well, spoiler.
I saw this movie years ago.
And I didn't know it was based on a book until a few years ago, but it automatically went on my TBR.
It's also difficult for me to explain the book to anyone who hasn't read it, because I'm next-to-positive most of us have seen the movie (if not, you may want to pick up the book first in this instance).
I'm off to rewatch the glorious ambiguity that is the Christopher Nolan movie and see if I can't pick up more connections now that I've read this lovely beast.
Well holy freaking hell, that was seriously intense. I actually watched the movie to this back in 2006 or 2007, and while I thought I remembered everything, either I didn't, or not everything from the book made it into the movie. Based on my memory of the movie I thought it was really odd that it won the World Fantasy Award. This is not a problem I'm having now! It was strange, intriguing, and highly suspenseful.I need to go calm down now. Wow.
If one has a Reading Challenge with the category "serious grudge or vengeful competition", then this is the book.I hate to say this, and friends don't beat me, but this is one of those few instances when I enjoyed the movie so much more than the book.
I couldn't develop the right amount of interest in the game these men were playing with each other and the hate they felt for each other simply because he each wanted to be the accomplished magician.
Each man had questionable habits and put himself and others in danger.
I think the movie did a better depiction of the rivalry.
The modern framing was fascinating, as it sets up a very intriguing question about Andrew Westerly, born Nicholas Borden, that he has never been able to answer, and introduces Kate Angier, who appears to have the information he lacks.
Then the truth about Alfred Borden is revealed, and it’s both boring and not very believable.
And after that, the truth about Rupert Angier and Nicholas Borden/Andrew Westerly is revealed, and it’s completely unbelievable, and left me with far, far too many questions, none of which have satisfactory possible answers.
This is a novel that should be taught in schools - not just because of the many, many themes and notions it introduces, but simply as an example of how to write.It's also got one of the biggest narrative twist-kicks I've ever seen - as in I read one particular line and suddenly needed to re-read the last thirty pages while saying 'woah.....' a lot.
However, don't come to this from the film assuming you'll love it - it's very different in tone, and with it's old-fashioned (though more readable than genuine Victorian literature!) style, it's slower, and may be less immediately accessible (but stick with it).
I alternated between thinking that this story was going to be dry and boring, or over the top "magicky", or all fluffadelic like what I expect The Night Circus would be like if I could bring myself to read it.
it will appear from thin air using only the power of my mind and magic." Yaaa-*conk-snore*As I've recently been reading more fantasy that deals with magic lately, I've come to realize that clearly set rules and laws of magic are vital for me to enjoy a story containing it.
You do not get to anachronistically rock E=MC^2 while simultaneously saying that metals are more complicated than people.End: ...Oh, what the hell was that.12/19/2016Someone requested that I cut the book slack on the scientific failure central to the narrative - in, from what I remember having read seven years ago, a story where the protagonist insisted upon scientifically accurate underpinnings for all of his performance bits - because it is fiction.
Look, I can fix it in a paragraph: Kill the sentence on page 290 and modify that around 291 to "The elements and their alloys and oxides proved too simplistic for satisfaction, a child's trick of magnetic repulsion at a distance.
The diaries of both magicians are supposed to reveal their secrets, but while reading them, it is clear something is hidden behind their words."It began on a train, heading north through England, although I was soon to discover that the story had really begun more than a hundred years earlier."A thrilling tale of betrayal and revenge written with a different style than any other book I've read, yet as perfect as a classic.
I know the book is the origin of the movie, but there are very beautiful quotes in the movie like "Are you watching closely?" and "You want to be fooled", even the names of magic tricks' three acts, that is capable of making the movie better.All in all, a very good story.
This, I figured, would be my chance to actually understand the story!Well, sort of.The book is written in epistolary form, from the point of view of four main characters around 5 generations apart.
I think their parts added a little suspense as more and more secrets were revealed, slowly.The writing style was very different from what I had expected, but I found it very successful.
I wish I had read the book before seeing the film - the film would have made more sense and, in turn, the book would have retained its secrets for longer, I think.
I found the movie to be creative and did not see the twist ending coming.
I was thrilled that this was a book, and put on the long (long, long, God it's so long) TBR list.
It was time to read the book and remove at least one more book from my TBR list.Because I had seen the movie, the twist in the story was not the surprise it should have been.
That was ok though, because the movie ended at the twist but the book has So. Much.
Read the book.
I literally held off on reading this for YEARS because I "knew" I was going to love it.Heh.
I must say that this was a sterling novel that absolutely kept me reading until the very end.
It's not a wham-bam thank you ma'am kind of story and definitely NOT for readers who quickly become impatient with what they're reading.
I can't remember anything else quite like this in the recent past.I very highly recommend this novel with one major caveat.
However, the rest of the book is so incredible that it will make up for the strange ending.
VERY HIGHLY recommended.

I can agree as well, that the prose can be tiring to read - in fact, I think much of their life story is rather monotonous and can be edited out - but it's unassuming in the way that it tells the story in the limited perspective of the two magicians' journals, but assures the reader that we are in the privileged position to know much more and in much more depth.I didn't really like the almost mystical way Priest wrote of Angier in the last part of the book.
After reading (and thoroughly enjoying one of his science fiction novels, The Inverted World: A Novel, I was anxious to check out one of his other stories and chose this one.
While the plot and tone are completely different than The Inverted World: A Novel, the strength of the story-telling and the excellent writing are certainly evident.
The story is a sort of historical mystery (with very subtle fantasy/science fiction elements) about two accomplished stage magicians who develop an intense feud that has staggering effects not only on their lives, but on the lives of their descendants.
Winner: World Fantasy Award for Best NovelNominee: British Science Fiction Award for Best NovelNominee: Arthur C.
(view spoiler)[How come, Andrew spontaneously finds his way to the vault?
That frame story was the worst thing around this book - it just didn't fit the story very well, was either over- or underdevelopped or completely unnecessary.2.) The ending.
(hide spoiler)]3.) Borden vs.
The Borden part of the journal was emotionally and psychologically underdevelopped while Angier's sometimes had to much (repetetive) detail4.) Olivia.
When she delivers the results of her "investigation" to Angier, there's (view spoiler)[only one word there: Tesla.
There's no previous hint that either she or Borden were familiar with what Tesla can do (with exception of the one exhibition), so why they would come up with this in that letter is a non-sequitur to me.
I was reading it concurrently with Johnathan Strange & Mr. Norrell, and needless to say, this one went much more quickly.The main thing I want to say about this novel is that, if you've seen the movie based on it, you do NOT know the story of this novel.
I did enjoy the film, but it stands on its own apart from the book, in many more ways than it resembles the written version.
In short, READ THE BOOK.
You won't be sorry, and it's different enough from the movie that nothing will have been spoiled for you.
