https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/531978.Henri_Cartier_Bresson
A master - my words would not do justice to these images.
Poesie in bianco e neroQuesto libretto contiene poco più di sessanta foto di Henri Cartir-Bresson.
Perché gli scatti di HCB non hanno bisogno di parole di accompagnamento né di spiegazioni; pur fissando un istante in un'immagine, essi sintetizzano un divenire e contengono una storia: basta saper osservare, leggere al di là delle figure e lasciarsi trasportare da quelle poesie di luci e ombre, di bianchi e neri.
E allora tutta la storia appare ed emoziona.Nota: qualche anno fa avevo acquistato un analogo "libretto-ricordo"; casualmente entrambi riportano in copertina la stessa foto, ma molto diverse sono le edizioni.
Decir "read" es hacer trampas, porque apenas hay un prólogo y algunas palabras de Cartier-Bresson. Pero quería ponerlo por aquí porque lo he sacado de la biblioteca y me fascina lo que consiguen transmitir los fotógrafos. Me fascina su capacidad para inmortalizar lo ordinario y lo extraordinario. Si te gusta la fotografía, es un librito con el que se disfruta mucho. Me quedo con la foto: Rumanía, 1975.
As secret Santa gifts go, this had got to be one of the best ones. Although it's in French (a language I don't read) and the book is heavily coffee stained (at least I hope it's coffee) it is a great collection of photographs.Beyond the introduction, it's 63 classic Bresson photographs. Each labeled with the year the photograph was taken and the location and title.I never did find out who it was from...
His photos are amazingly inpirational. Open any page to find his grip of decisive moments. No need a word.
One in the Aperture Series that like so many others, is great as far as it goes.
As definitive works for photographers in the series they are slightly lacking.HC-B is a somewhat difficult subject due to the breadth of time his productive career covered.
Is the 'street' photography element more important or is the war and journalism coverage of greater important.
Well done, just not enough and as with all of these works, I would have liked a different physical format in dimension.
Also like the rest of the Aperture series, this book does inspire most to look farther for more information and other works.
HCB... his photographs need no explanations; they always speak volumes all by their lonesome. The biggest thrill would be to see them mounted on a wall, but this small book's display of them does these 40 plus classic shots justice and is so inspiring that it warrants many viewings. Most of the material in this book predates the 60's and the proof of their brilliance is that they still hold much value way into the 21st Century.
Una forma sencilla, accesible y muy adecuada de acercarse al extensísimo trabajo del que está considerado por muchos como el principal fotógrafo del siglo XX. A pesar de que se trata de un libro de formato pequeño, las fotografías de la colección Photo Poche están muy bien editadas lo que permite que podamos disfrutar viendo los matices de cada imagen.
Sobre as imagens do Cartier-Bresson, não há o que comentar. Sobre o livro, é um produto de qualidade: simples, material bom e um preço acessível - o que é muito bem-vindo, uma vez que não é tão fácil achar livros de fotografia a um preço baixo. Este foi meu primeiro contato com a editora Cosac Naify, que parece ser extremamente competente.
hella fantastic at composing photographic images with 35mm... this is a great (but small) introduction into this famous photographer's work. not quite up to par with his work during the magnum years... lots of good stuff taken in russia though.
This brief book contains 42 of the world's greatest photographs, all taken by Henri Cartier-Bresson. It is tempting to linger on the images long after one has turned the last page. Simply brilliant!
a good, small, selection of HCB's photos. I want to find a bigger book with more. It's a good start though. HCB is great.
This is a photography book. Whoever decided which photos would make it into the book did a fantastic job. This is some of his best work. A lot of it I hadn't seen before.
Sempre inspirador.
For inspiration.
This is a short best-of Cartier-Bressons photos. Photographs as good as art.
This was one of my first picture-books as a child. It was not until many years into my career as a news photographer that I realized that the book's photographs were actually by the esteemed Henri Cartier-Bresson. Perhaps impeding the realization was the, gasp, adequacy of the photos. Sorry, Henri, not your finest.(Incidentally, the title of this book is Cartier-Bresson's France. Text is by François Nourissier.)
Queria que ter lido comentários sobre as fotografias.
This is a pretty good survey but I would recommend other, larger-format, HCB books with a more focused subject.
