https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93269.Earth_Abides
”The trouble you’re expecting never happens; it’s always something that sneaks up the other way. Mankind had been trembling about destruction through war, and had been having bad dreams of cities blown to pieces along with their inhabitants, of animals killed, too, and of the very vegetation blighted off the face of the earth. But actually mankind seemed merely to have been removed rather neatly, with a minimum of disturbance.” Isherwood “Ish” WIlliams is out in the wilderness rock climbing to c
He reads books, but his curiosity gets the better of him and he explores the city.
The Earth reclaims what man has built, quickly.There is too much of everything now, too many cars, food spoiling, too many clothes, piles of things that no one might need for a thousand years.
Some survivors can’t cope and suicide rates skyrocket among the few fortunate/unfortunate people who find themselves facing a new world bereft of family and friends.
Ish has a dream of restoring the world, to bring back the civilization that took several millennium to create, but to the new generations who never lived in that world they have all they need now.
You've seen this setup before (Stephen King's The Stand was inspired by this book), but where Earth Abides goes from here is both fascinating and original.The remaining people clump together where they can, and Isherwood Williams - who survives the plague somehow due his being bitten by a rattlesnake when the disease strikes - joins a group in a now empty San Francisco.
Where other novels are fuelled by Walking Dead style battles over resources, or mimic The Stand's good-vs-evil paradigm Earth Abides focuses on ordinary people surviving but failing to maintain modern civilisation in the aftermath of societal collapse.
Modern readers may notice some post-ap clichés and oft used techniques, but the same reader must consider that Stewart's remarkable work may have been the origin of many of this sub-grenre’s elements.This is an archetypal work that should be on a MUST read list for any true fan of speculative fiction.
The final scenes of Ish at the library is one of the great moments in speculative fiction.
Men go and come but the earth abides.I picked up Earth Abides because it was one of the inspirations for Stephen King's The Stand and because I've been in a post-apocalyptic mood lately.
The rest of the book consists of Ish travelling across the country and eventually founding a tribe and leading them in the struggle for survival, all the while wondering if his tribe will repeat the mistakes of the past.To sum up, Earth Abides is a welcome addition to any post-apoc fan's bookshelf.
If it's good enough for Stephen King, it's good enough for you.
Through deconstruction of this book, I could teach almost everything writers shouldn’t do.Hundreds of places the author could have ‘shown us’, with suspense, but instead ‘tells us’, with none (As an example, this is all we are told about our main character being attacked by a mountain lion): ...In the end there was bad luck, because Ish missed his shot and instead of killing a lion merely raked it across the shoulders, and it charged and mauled him before Ezra could get another shot home.
The textbook I assigned my students began with the sentence, “Civilization was not inevitable; it was an act of human creativity.” After reading about our primitive ancestors’ advance from hunting and gathering to the agricultural settlements of the Neolithic Revolution, we studied the great ancient civilizations of Egypt and Mesopotamia.
f.	The New Yorkers: In New York City, Ish meets apartment-dwellers Milt and Ann. They eat canned food, drink warm martinis, and listen to records on a wind-up phonograph.
Even with my stash of antibiotics, books, and dogs, I would probably end up no better than Milt and Ann. Like them, I’m a city-dweller, dependent on the city for my survival.
But as you can imagine, he's fighting a rear-guard action despite being the oldest person anyone knows, and also the last survivor of Before in the Now. Having lived through the AIDS apocalypse, some days I feel the same way.And as it must, Death comes for Ish at last, putting an end to his moanings about the stupidity of the human race for making the same mistakes that cost us so dearly before, his pessimistic views on the sustainability of his made tribe, and his invaluable store of knowledge...despite the fact that the whippersnappers don't listen:Then, though his sight was now very dim, he looked again at the young men.
What I found in this book, which I had hoped to like as a fan of post-apocalyptic works and with a respect for its fathers, was that it dragged on slowly (albeit as slowly as time would drag on post-apocalypse), had little in the ways of interesting characters (I liked the dog more than the passive, egotistic protagonist, who, despite his sense of self-grandeur, was hardly a fountain of original thought), and that it did not redeem itself in any way.
(When the hero sprays his pregnant wife's clothes with DDT because of flea concerns and it's considered a good thing, you gotta laugh.) But the core story holds up remarkably well.Instead of the typical apocalyptic aftermath story with brave survivors fighting for survival, we get a small band of average people who would rather coast along by scrounging off the old world rather than trying to rebuild.
Stewart was doing a version of 'Life After People' decades before the new book and History channel series here with pretty detailed theories about the way things would break down.
I don't agree with some of the specifics, but the story is not so much about specific technology, but about humanity & I think he presented a very interesting set of ideas.
It is more thoughtful, posing interesting questions about the human condition.
Does anyone know if there was ever a short story done of this or did part of it appear as a novella or something?(view spoiler)[Our civilization dies quickly & quietly due a plague that kills off all but a handful of people in weeks.
The events of the story are sparse and could be summarized into just a dozen episodes, but the core of the story is the thoughts of Ish on the fall of civilization, and his gradual realization that it is gone and will not return, and his coming to acceptance of this.Thanks to reading this on my Kindle app, I discovered the handy highlight function and picked out a few representative passages:That fact, when he thought of it, sometimes even made the Great Disaster seem beneficient – a magnificent wiping off of the slate which allowed man as a species to escape from of the aches and pains he had been accumulating for so many centuries, and start anew.Perhaps there were too many people, too many old ways of thinking, too many books.
I started this book without a clear picture of when or where it was written, just knew it was "a classic." It started out with the stereotypical "lone survivor surveys the empty cities" scenes and moved on to a cross country jaunt to see what humanity survived.
However, there was a scene where he came across a couple, a "negro" couple, whereupon he began to wonder if he should just stay there, become their master and have them provide for him.
And it was really eye-opening how little the human animal changes, regardless of the technological advances around.
Did this author think all sci fi had to be written in a weird shakesperian pretention because Huxley did it?As others have pointed out, even though it is refreshing that people do not act the way we expect in fiction, it does get tedious after 21 years people still are eating out of magic cans.
People just eat cans for a generation because people don't want to learn new skills..there is no long term planning at all and it isn't believable.
Stewart was a professor, and at times this book reads like an advertisement for the University of California.
I can deal with a less-than-heroic protagonist (I loved Flashman, after all) if there’s a great story to be told but that brings us to problem #2…#2: If the Earth Abides but Nothing Happens, Does Anyone Care?This isn’t a “kitten-squisher” of a book (Richard’s term) but at 373 pages it’s not exactly a novella, either.
I thought the first 100 pages, where Ish just wanders around looking at shit, was truly excruciating and while the action picks up a bit from there, it is still a very slow moving book.
Stewart wrote and published "Earth Abides" in 1949, so the society that gives way to nature and the passage of time is one that is devoid of cell phones, personal computers, internets, the multitude of plastic goods, disposable water bottles, a gi-normous nuclear industry and all of its lovely by-products, the civil rights movement, the Vietnam war, the sexual revolution, and other cultural movements and institutions that inform much of our modern thinking.
If you do pick it up, consider this advice: set aside a healthy amount of time, and just power through to the last sixty pages, where Stewart rests most of his agenda, and writes some poetic and profound prose about the end of life as he knew it.
Stewart did a remarkable job of making the daily lives of a few survivors not only seem interesting and extremely realistic (important for it to be a good book) but also provided philosophical insights and morals of human nature (the difference for me between good books and great books).On a side note, I loved seeing how different two books can be that start with the same basic premise.
Both focus on the social and environmental aspects of the end of man, but Stewart focuses on the rebuilding efforts of a few survivors while I focused on the inevitable ending of the last few who would one day fade away.
In this pleasant, low-key post-apocalyptic classic, nearly all the human race has been wiped out by a mysterious disease.
Yet, as the title suggests, the rest of the world continues and barely notices we're gone.
I was reminded of this novel the other day when a friend was telling me about her father's view of the future.
He thinks our society is doomed, and that we're also inflicting incalculable harm on tens of thousands of other species.
All the same, as she said, he doesn't consider that it's ultimately that important.
However, Ish simply goes back to living in his parents' home.Over the course of time, people join Ish, he takes a wife, he has grandchildren and great grandchildren, and the world goes on, living off the leavings of the Old World.
Ish is initially saddened that the people who make up this new tribe are not intellectually inclined as he is.
And when disaster falls soon after, the elders first wonder if this is a punishment from god for their horrendous yet logical decision.I'm trying so hard not to give away the entire story here, but there are just so many great parts in this seemingly simple novel.
Thought-provoking post-apocalyptic novelNot an action-packed book and even quaint by today's standards, Earth Abides is a widely recognized classic of the genre with good reason. It puts one in mind of the Universal monster movies of the thirties and forties--enjoyable as classics but not facing the more stark and brutal realities portrayed in stories from our current time. So judging it by the time in which it was written, it was probably a ground-breaking book. But I think it has been much improved upon by many succeeding post-apocalyptic novels. That or I am simply quite jaded.
3.0 stars. George R. Stewart's post-apocalyptic science fiction classic. I came into this story with incredibly high expectations and I think that may have tainted my experience with the book. It was well written with some very beautiful and haunting moments, but in the end it just didn't hold my interest enough to rate it higher. Good, but not great. Winner: International Science Fiction Award for Best Novel (1951)Voted to Locus "All Time Best" Science Fiction Novels.
The main character, Ish, drives me nuts.
George is "a first-class carpenter" but "essentially stupid", dummy Maurine is always engaged in her "beloved tasks of housewifery", really, the list just goes on & on.
Everyone is an idiot, so he decides his son should lead the way because he can read.
I believe his reasoning is that this child can always go to the library & read about how to say, be a first-class carpenter.
Em tells Ish she's pregnant and starts to cry, tells him, "I lied.
You looked at my hands & said they were nice.
I first read the story way back when I was in high school, so I can recommend this to young readers.The story may well be the first post-apocalyptic novel of its kind - I know of no others that have proceeded it and I do not count H.G. Wells' The Time Machine as in this category.
Regardless, I consider this book to be the standard against which all other post-apocalyptic novels should be judged.George R.
Few survive the planet-wide plague that all be destroys humanity.
Only a few survive and this is the tale of one of those people, from the days of the plague to his death (due to old age).
The one part that really struck me as unpleasantly dated was Ish's visit to a black family's farm, when he thinks to himself how easy it would be for him to move in and lord it over them, because it had been the natural order for so long that they would just accept his domination and allow him to live like a king off their labors.

"Men go and come, but the Earth abides."I couldn't help but conjure images of the Norse God, Thor, as Ish carried his hammer throughout the story and slowly came to be idolized by the following generations who followed.
I can see how this apocalyptic tale inspired Stephen King to write 'The Stand'.
This book is a dated piece of fiction, but whether taking place in 1949 or in present day, one thing holds true, regardless of mans evolution and technology it could all come crashing down; our museums, Golden Gates, and colorful splashes of red.
And yet our Mother Earth would spin on.
I did not like this, Dawn I am.Boring.
Did I mention boring?Nothing happens.
I have no idea what the point of the rest of the pages was.
Main character, Ich, was a pompous douche.
By the end of the book he's an elderly man.
The 20 year old version of Ich is written as a partially senile old man.
I don't think he knew how to write a young man and so Ich came across seeming like he was 50 or 60 rather than 20.
My point is that I didn't like this book, it was ridiculously boring, and it fills me with rage.
Imagine that most of Earth's population has been wiped out by an unknown virus.
It took me a short while to get used to the author's style of writing and the voice that he gave to Ish. There isn't much action in this novel but I was completely immersed in the story.
Not only are we witness to how humanity reacts to this tragic event but we also see how Earth is changed with so few humans left.
I had a feeling of almost claustrophobia during parts of the story.
This definitely gave me much to think about in relation to our world today.
What's more it was sometimes difficult to get past the outdated views of race and gender presented in this book, which was written in 1949; although I think an attempt was made to portray Ish as somewhat progressive due to his status as a scholar and intellectual.
It was certainly a reminder that we have come a long way despite lingering attitudes and unresolved issues.Yet, regardless of these criticisms, some moments were beautifully written and captivating, arousing my curiosity enough as to want to see where it would all lead.
The long-awaited denouement was not only deeply satisfying, but possibly the most effective, beautiful, and emotionally wrenching of any book I have ever read.
I love character-driven fiction.
I am also enough of a misanthropist to enjoy reading about an empty United States without obvious dead bodies, zombies, major infrastructure destruction or abandoned vehicle traffic jams.
This book ponders whether the trappings of civilization and all the knowledge scholars have amassed would be useful for rebuilding after the devastation of our society.
There are moving descriptions of Nature reclaiming the Earth, but happily not much violence among the remaining humans.
I'm inspired to read The World Without Us soon.Originally published in 1949, but I'd never heard of it.
Jeffrey Keeten's  great review inspired me to give this a try.
When it was made clear that Charlie would try to bed Evie, a beautiful, vacant-eyed blonde that had absolutely no function in the story until that point, and was clearly written solely to be the impetus for this conflict, the reader is supposed to be against their coupling because Ish was, but Ish's reasoning is flimsy at best, and more likely just self-serving, as Ish feels threatened as the alpha male of the community.
The segment that followed was another quick years segment, that while it read a bit like an almanac, was brief enough not to cause offense or too much boredom.The third and final section, The Last American, was a strong, if imperfect ending.
