https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35389818-silent-victim
This stand alone novel by Caroline Mitchell is a great read.
Emma loves her husband Alex and together with her son they are moving to a new home in Leeds.
The book is written from the perspective of Emma, then and now, her husband Alex and Luke at the time when he was Emma's teacher.
I don't want to give too much away but this psychological novel is top drawer and is a must for all suspense readers.
Even though the story is told from different characters and time frames the story was easy to follow and was a great read.
I became a fan of Caroline Mitchell through her Ruby Preston series.
As the book goes on, you have no idea whether she’s a reliable narrator or not.
Hearing from both Emma and Luke works well.
While we have the benefit of hearing from Luke in 2002, poor Alex has no clue who is telling the truth.
But then, the whole concept of how little we can really know our spouse and how quickly things can change in a relationship made it so I couldn’t put the book down.
I give Caroline Mitchell credit.
Even knowing Luke’s back history didn’t give me a clue as to how this was going to come down.
Silent Victim is my first book by Caroline Mitchell, but it won't be my last. For some reason, I had low expectations going into this book, however I am happy to report I was very wrong! It is a twisty, clever story with an engaging plot and well-developed characters. Recommended!Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
My heart was practically beating out of my chest as the final few pages brought the storyline to its dramatic climax but I just didn’t want it to end!!Emma was an amazing character creation.
But why is there no longer a body in that shallow grave and does Alex really know Emma as well as he thought he did?
I wanted everyone to know how brilliant it was as soon as I finished it and I have been recommending it ever since!Silent Victim is a skilfully written standalone that has me desperate for more…..RIGHT NOW!
Atmospheric, menacing, and incredibly riveting!Silent Victim is a character-driven, thrill ride that reminds us that skeletons often find their way out of the closet no matter how well they are hidden or buried and highlights just how easily someone's behaviour can be manipulated, misinterpreted, questioned, and used against them.The writing is taut and complex.
The characterization is spot on with a cast of characters that are distressed, raw and consumed, and a setting, Mersea Island, that is a character itself with its remoteness and isolation.
I was hovering either to give book a 3.5 or 4* rating,gave a four as did enjoy this book a stalker or is it all in her mind.but found it abit slow in parts it's me I'm used to faster paced books.it all comes together.good read.
"She brushed an errant lock from her cheek, panting from the exertion of rushing to be on time. I regarded her with a look of amused curiosity. Inside I was thrilled that a gorgeous young creature would be subservient to me for the forthcoming year."Was very interested in the plot, but hoo boy was the writing terrible. Overwraught, immature and awkward. Little to no character development. Lots of long internal monologues that sound like nothing a real person would ever think.
Her writing is uneven, and the plot bogs down at times with unnecessary details about Emma’s (the main character’s) business and consistently drags out scenes in the book.
The author also lacks consistency in her writing — making both Emma and her sister, Theresa— so different from one scene to the next it makes it hard to relate or root for the characters.
But just when I thought the book turned the corner it self- destructed with a main character calling a person he believes is going to harm a family member to let the villain know he is coming.
Holy flipping moly Caroline Mitchell has only gone and written another fabulous psychological thriller that’s worthy of all the stars, it’s a MUST read.
Whether it be crime or psychological thriller Caroline Mitchell knows how to grab the readers attention and this book is no different, from the “OMG” prologue to its nail biting conclusion I was well and truly hooked.I do love an unreliable narrator and the author gives you two for the price of one, the story is told mostly from Luke the teachers POV and Emma a loving wife, and devoted mother, it’s shared between the past and the present.
Over the past two years she’s become one of my favorite authors, I can always count on her for an original storyline and some serious heart pounding moments and Silent Victim may be her best book yet.This is told from several viewpoints and flips between 2017, 2013 and 2002 but everything is laid out clearly, there is no confusion but just loads of intrigue.
Another hit from one of my auto buy authors, if you haven’t read her books yet they’re all highly recommended by me.Silent Victim in three words: Nerve wracking, exciting and Menacing.
Amazing thriller.So glad I picked this Amazon First Read selection of February books. Story is told as first person by three characters and jumps from 2003 to 2017. Author's writing style keeps your interest, keeps you in suspense. Thrilling, mysterious and suspenseful all the way to the breathtaking ending. Books written by British authors always takes me longer to read, because I have to stop and Google the places and read the news, look at the pictures. Hope to visit Mersea one day.
Fast-paced and suspenseful! I never had any idea where this book was taking me but the ride was full of twists and turns and I was happy to be on it. It's tough to finish well and this one was satisfying if not the "bang" I was hoping for after being so enchanted by the rest.
The story opens up with Emma attempting to bury the body of a man named Luke, her former teacher who had seduced her, who she has just murdered.
it's on an island of sorts and is even cut off by the tide during certain times of the day.But with Luke's body buried on their property unbeknownst to Alex, Emma knows they can't leave until she destroys every last bit of evidence of her final revenge on Luke.
The authors background knowledge (she is a former police detective) really shines through and makes this story fairly realistic as opposed to some thrillers I've read in the past.
I’ve never been on a rollercoaster ride but I imagine coming off it, feels a little something like I felt when I finished reading Silent Victim : a little dizzy, maybe a tad nauseous and with legs like jelly.Emma hasn’t had an easy time but now she has a loving husband and a wonderful son.
It’s where Emma buried the body of a teacher who seduced her when she was a teenager.
I enjoyed the alternating chapters between her and her husband, Alex, as it showed quite clearly what it would have felt like to have been in his shoes.I was gripped from the very beginning.
I have read this author's books from the very beginning and have followed her career with interest and I have to say that with each new journey she shows me something fresh.
I always claim that the last was my favourite and this is no exception with Silent Victim.
My favourite books in the whole world are the ones that waste nothing.
In this book every scene either serves to move the plot forward or characterise.
It’s not a mystery, since we know from the beginning pretty much everything that’s going on and the surprise elements weren’t such a big surprise, it’s barely a thriller , the characters are awkwardly written and the story is so over-the-top , I’ve rolled my eyes dozens of times while listening to this book.
But what I disliked the most was the way the main character was built.She was so desperate , so weak and vulnerable, so needy , plain stupid a handful of times , that it made me angry.
A superb stand alone story. It starts slow but profound. The end is very unsuspected and utterly believable.
I’m a big fan of this authors books so couldn’t wait to read her new stand alone novel, Silent Victim.The story flicks mainly between husband and wife, Emma and Alex.
She loves her husband and son very much and she doesn’t want anything to ruin that.
Like Alex, I just didn’t know what to believe.
Emma is quite mentally unstable and I didn’t dare let my guard drop where she was concerned.This is one story where you just know there is something brewing and when it hits, it is going to be big.
So i will start off by saying that I am a massive fan of Caroline's writing and this is her best book yet….it has totally blown me away.I have to say that I sucked in hook, line and sinker from the very first page and from that moment I knew it was going to be the bollocks….
Just when I thought I knew where this was going BOOM the author throws in a twist it is full of tension mystery and suspense it will keep you guessing until the very endWith only a handful of characters we really get to know them I have to say I really liked Alex he is a strong male and has a lot thrown his way throughout the story.
I think Caroline has become one of the best crime writers for suspense I’ve ever read.
It doesn't matter whether she's writing about murders or psychological thrillers, she excels at both.
I’m an avid crime reader, and read through books like a knife through butter, but her writing even leaves me bewildered and bemused.
However, as the story unfolds I really couldn’t make my mind up who was telling the truth.
I'll leave it up to the other readers to decide.
I can't really say anymore without spoiling the story.
My thanks to Caroline and netgalley for letting me have an advanced copy of this book.
With a lot of psychological thrillers taking place in fictional settings I had no idea this was real, but it’s now become somewhere that I would love to visit.
I like the idea of the tide cutting me off from the world and being with my books however I wouldn’t want to be cut off with any of the characters from this story (well, they aren’t all bad).
On the whole this is a brilliant book which kept me guessing right up until the very end and it’s a real thought-provoking book too.
Can I give this no stars? Goodreads, you really need to figure out a way for reviewers to do this. ** Hilarious and gross spoilers ahead ** I don't even know how to begin to review the hot mess that is  Silent Victim. 1. Do I start with the clunky writing? No, because terrible writing is a dime a dozen.2. How about the contrived and phony plot?Emma has a secret. She killed the teacher who seduced her when she was a teen and buried him in the backyard. But when she returns to retrieve his body a
Emma eventually confesses to her husband about the predator she stashed in the backyard and he is shocked to realize that he never knew her.
But surprise, surprise, the teacher isn't dead, he woke up after Emma clunked him on the head and he walked away and went on with his life.
There's also the matter of the POV narratives from Emma, Alex, her husband and Lucas, the perv teacher.I have no idea why any author in their right mind would think a perspective from a pedophile is a good idea.
What are the odds that Emma's mom and Lucas were both buried in the backyard?
For some reason I was SURE I'd already read something by this author but I went through all my lists and nope, I haven't !!
At one point, we were close to a big "reveal" and she ended the chapter and went back to another character's observations and I was screaming as I wanted to stay and learn what was going to be said !!
I adored Maggie and also the way Emma looked after her.
Hehehe...The author refers to grooming in her acknowledgements and while this is a relatively new term, you have to wonder at the teenage girls who would consider themselves in that position.
DNF, skimmed through to figure out what happened. I’m in the minority; most readers enjoyed the story.SILENT VICTIM is told from the points of view of Emma, her husband Alex and Luke, the man Emma “murdered” from time periods of 2002, 2003, 2013 and 2017. I was often confused whose first person POV I was reading and from what time period. I didn’t like or feel connected to any of the characters, didn’t know who was a reliable narrator or not and didn’t care.I’ve got to choose my Kindle First to Read better.
Brilliantly gripping and deliciously creepy. Make sure you clear your day as you won't be able to put Silent Victim down! :)
And the basis for the plot, a relationship between a teenage school student and a teacher is always a draw for me both as a reader and a writer.
In this novel the teacher, Luke, is such an odious sleaze that it was hard for me to believe that even a naive girl like Emma could desire him.
More interesting are characters like Thea in Yonahlossee Riding Camp for Girls or Hattie in Anything You Want Me to Be who are drawn to a relationship with a older teacher because they find boys their age immature and silly.
“You can’t walk away from your demons… They’ll catch up with you in the end.”  I feel like this could’ve been a good book if the first half wasn’t dragging as much and the second half wasn’t so rushed. It wasn’t the most original book and I wasn’t impressed with the ending either.I wasn’t happy with the characters either, they were two dimensional with no personality whatsoever, the multiple POVs had the same voice, even the bad guy wasn’t evil enough.So I guess in the end I didn’t much care fo
I feel like this could’ve been a good book if the first half wasn’t dragging as much and the second half wasn’t so rushed.
It wasn’t the most original book and I wasn’t impressed with the ending either.I wasn’t happy with the characters either, they were two dimensional with no personality whatsoever, the multiple POVs had the same voice, even the bad guy wasn’t evil enough.So I guess in the end I didn’t much care for this as I only had complaints..
and I’m sure I’ll forget about this book completely in a couple of weeks.
My thanks to the author, Caroline Mitchell for an ARC of this book – below you will find my honest opinion/thoughts on this novel.Set on Mersea Island/Colchester the reader is immersed in a world where a fear of discovery, abuse of trust, lack of self- control, manipulation, secrets, guilt, shame, vulnerability and mistrust wraps itself around us as we follow the story to uncover the truth but… Sometimes the truth hurts more than a lie.
I hated everything about him and wished every time I saw his name that Emma had killed him when she thought she had!As an author, Caroline really knows how to create characters that get under our skin, whether we love them or loathe them, they stay with us.
Initially, I was very drawn to this story, setting and characters.
Emma is hiding secrets from her past in order to preserve the life she’s overcome so much to achieve.
What wasn’t done so well and what marred my overall enjoyment of the story, were the inconsistent characters whose personalities constantly flipped flopped, over the top dramatics and one very ridiculous plot twist that very nearly had me not finishing the story.I don’t consider myself too hard to please.
When these things conflict with the world and setting created and do so consistently, I can’t get past it.
Mersea Island is full of long-buried secrets waiting to be unearthed, and I was completely wrapped up in the mystery of it all.The story is told through three points of view, set in three distinct timelines: the present (2017), the recent past (2013), and the more distant past (2002).
Everything comes together beautifully, ensuring a suspenseful journey for the reader as they begin to realize what (might) be going on.Unreliable narrations and clever misdirection were abundant throughout the novel, leading to a thrilling climax that often left me breathless in fearful anticipation and more than a little anxiety during particularly intense moments.This is the first book I’ve read by Caroline Mitchell, and I can’t help but chastise myself for having waited so long to read one of her books.
