https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/967309.The_Elements_of_Color
Good information here on color use.
Hits lots of topics that I have seen overlooked by other color theory instruction i.e. artistic process, use of grays, impact of quantity/brilliance/hue in color-to-color relationships.The book uses many long and detailed descriptions of processes and relationships.
The book also references specific works as illustration of particular color use but does not include photos of these works.
Adding the diagrams and images would strengthen the book and ease the communication of key concepts.Philosophically the work is fully immersed in a Modernist school of thought.
This is as it should be since the work was written during the heyday of Modernism at the Bauhaus.
Parts of this book were completely eye opening for me, and other parts were difficult to understand the first time around.
However, I absolutely found it fascinating to see Itten's examples of his history and theory of color in art through listing concrete examples of some of the most famous artist's work through time.After studying the physics of light and color a little more in-depth, Itten's theories made more sense, and his book became easier to understand.Finally, I "get it" - even more so now than when I was studying Color Theory as a fine arts student 20+ years ago.
yes, it was a required text at one point, and yes, even art students tend to hate colour theory -- but that doesn't change the fact that this book opened my eyes to so many things about colour that, although simple, were often overlooked.
A classic text on color theory in abbreviated form.
The Elements of Color by Faber Birren, A Treatise on the color system of Johannes Itten based on his book The Art of Color, Germany, , reading Aug.-Oct., 2018. Very in depth information, slow absorption and note taking. Notes to page 28. Page 43: want to make 12 steps of gray from white to black and 12 hues of the color circle in matching brilliances. Page 67: Make Color Sphere 12 pointed color star. Each pure color is tinted in 2 steps to white and shaded in 2 steps to black.
Used it in class when i was a teacher!
A concise and inspiring introduction to color theory.
خواندن این کتاب به دقیقتر دیدن و حساستر شدن نگاه ما به رنگها و محیط پیرامون کمک شایانی میکند. هر چند به نظر میرسد در ترجمه فارسی، ناشر نهایت امانتداری را در چاپ دستنوشته های مترجم به کار برده و آنها را بی هیچ ویرایشی روانه بازار کرده است.
This was an ok book... wasn't what I was hoping for. I read it for my color theory class in College. I was hoping for more like color physiology after that class I found out they were two totally different subjects.
Gee, if this is a simplification I probably couldn't fathom the original! This is, however technical, a great introduction to the MAGIC of color! For example with this book you can learn to make gray become any color you want! An excellent reference.
this is the colour-book i was taught out of by my teacher.still a number one for leaning about the use of colour.
کتابی مختصر اما کاربردی. درضمن به لحاظ ویراستاری خیلی ایراد داشت که امیدوارم در چاپهای بعدی اصلاح شود.‏
enlightening formulation of the very nature of color. should prove hugely useful. a shit ton of knowledge...
Recommended by Bob Rhoades for his 2010 Color & Design class.
Textbook from my art school days: still own it, which says something!
Excellent basic on color theory
Good book for anyone in the arts.
Alternate title: Everything You Ever Wanted to Know about Color but Had No Idea Even Existed.
Excellent resource for understanding color theory
es un libro muy util
Very good food for thought and introduction to color theory. Highly recommended for artists of all types.
This was an interesting little book that would mean more to anyone studying art. I read it to learn about color, not necessarily about painting and composition.
