https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/811022.None_Dare_Call_It_Conspiracy
The rockefellers, morgans, and other super rich set up the progressive income tax in 1917 (per the communist manifesto), not to force Americans to "pay their fair share," but to destroy their competition.
Before imposing an unConstitutional progressive income tax they set up tax-free foundations where they could hide their money and avoid paying ANY taxes.
That's right, the super rich pay $0 income tax.
Between offshore accounts and tax-free foundations, only average Americans are required to pay income taxes.Gary Allen set out to disprove this theory and ended up finding all the documentation and proof to change his mind.
Reading this book ruined my life. I was happy being blissfully unaware of all of this stuff. It was well written and well researched. Reading this book is like that scene in the Matrix. If you want to remain unaware, take the blue pill and pass on this book. If you want your eyes open take the red pill and read this book. But there is no going back once you take the red pill.
Though somewhat dated, this book remains a classic in exposing the new world order conspiracy.
You could easily just insert the word "globalism" where Allen speaks of "communism" or "socialism" in this book and it doesn't seem dated at all.
You also get insight into the Federal Reserve, the CFR, the Bilderberger group and who instigated their founding and who controls them, the Rockefellers, the so called "philanthropic" foundations controlled by the global elites, the European banking syndicate, the making of puppet Presidents and other political figures, the ferminting of scam wars and lots more.
One the one hand, I felt like I should have read this with a tin foil hat on my head.
On the other hand, I feel like I have discovered the Glenn Beck to English dictionary.I didn't know much about The John Birch Society or Producerism before reading this book.
The thing is that there is some truth woven in, which means that some of those people are very much on the same page when it comes to the idea that dems and republicans are the same and concentration of power is dangerous.
So is it totally impossible for those people to stop vilifying the poor and start focusing on power?
His argument, made on page 21 in all-caps is that Communism is "AN INTERNATIONAL, CONSPIRATORIAL DRIVE FOR POWER ON THE PART OF MEN IN HIGH PLACES WILLING TO USE ANY MEANS TO BRING ABOUT THEIR DESIRED AIM - GLOBAL CONQUEST." Got that?At the center of the "World Supra-Government" as Allen sees it is the Council on Foreign Relations, which grows out of older world-government schemes, starting with the Rothschild family, and which controls nearly all global corporate and federal governmental bodies.
Democratic Socialism is merely Communism with a smiley-face, of course, and socialism is the ultimate goal of the World Supra-Government.
I get that.Look I'd simply suggest you read this.
It goes way back (40 years) and has stayed in print because some keep...wondering.
I must admit as I get older the idea of at least an attempt at some overriding conspiracy seems more and more likely.
It seems odd to me that government conspiracy theories are usually lumped in with conspiracy ideas about...reptilian aliens secretly running the world.
Some conspiracy theories seem geared to making the theorist (or theorists) look like...well crackpots.Look, just look for yourself and try not to decide things before you read.
Actually I really hated it.
The author didn't write this book to be cool or to gain the praises and accolades of the world.
He wrote it because he came across a scary truth and the evidence to back it up and felt a deep responsibility to share the truth of what going on "behind the scenes" in politics.
You'll probably hate it.
But you need to know what's going on.
Also know, this is a book with a call to action.
It's all pretty much the same from the standpoint of the people who must live and suffer under it.”“FDR once said ‘In politics, nothing happens by accident.
If it happens, you can bet it was planned that way.’”“If you study Marx's Communist Manifesto you will find that in essence Marx said the proletarian revolution would establish the SOCIALIST dictatorship of the proletariat.
To achieve the SOCIALIST dictatorship of the proletariat, three things would have to be accomplished: (1) The elimination of all right to private property; (2) The dissolution of the family unit; and (3) Destruction of what Marx referred to as the "opiate of the people," religion.”
The lesson of this book: All freedom-loving people must read any extremist tome with skepticism, and challenge the author with the facts.
This book reminds us of the necessity for readers to educate ourselves in history, economics, and current events so that we are not unduly swayed or duped by such books, particularly during difficult economic times or in time of war and terrorism.
Educate yourselves on the facts and stay focused on truth, fellow readers, and think and reason for yourselves.
Challenge and debate demagogues of any stripe who would abuse freedom of expression to deprive us of that right later.
Like some other vintage, anti-communist, hysterical conspiracy writing I've read, None Dare Call It Conspiracy starts harmlessly enough.
For those who make it past the half-way point, Gary Allen takes the gloves off and goes the kind of full-blown, bat shit loco crazy you are expecting.
Granted, this was pre-Watergate, but President Nixon already had a storied career behind him, flush with things even a centrist Democrat would find objectionable.
But one thing he wasn't was a communist/Rothschild/Illuminati agent.
It's pretty much delusional ravings from the start, escalating to full blown clanging by the end.And it does give you something to laugh at, after all: Silly John Birch Society!
Thus a whole-hearted leftist is actually a nascent communist, and someone arguing fervently for states rights (typically a right-wing topic, but in the 1800s it was the pet topic of Democrats) is secretly a Nazi.Gary Allen proposes what I think is a far more useful framework for looking at political philosophies: He places "total government" on one end of the spectrum (with communism, fascism, and similar approaches of complete government control grouped there; today you could put Islamic theocracy there too, such as what you see under ISIS).
The title of this book initially made me nervous, and I would have never picked it up except that someone recommended it to me and it has this endorsement from Ezra Taft Benson: "I wish that every citizen of every country in the free world and every slave behind the Iron Curtain might read this book."Ezra Taft Benson, Secretary of Agriculture to President Eisenhower for 8 yearsThis is probably the most enlightening book I've read lately, especially in view of the current political race.
I would recommend this to anyone as a serious consideration of our duty as American citizens.
The idea is to force the person exposing the conspiracy to stop the exposure and spend his time and effort defending himself.""It must be remembered that the first job of any conspiracy, whether it be in politics, crime or within a business office, is to convince everyone else that no conspiracy exists.""Psychological problems are also involved in inducing people to look at the evidence concerning the Insiders.
Although they would never admit it, social position is more important to many people than is the survival of freedom in America.""Conspiracy to seize the power of government is as old as government itself." Finally, its worth noting his quote of FDR, "In politics, nothing happens by accident.
My favorite book on globalism. Elucidating.
But, if you have a decent understanding of where the world was at that time, it flows very well.The surprising thing is how well the premise holds up even 40 years later.
The suggestions of how the government will act to move their attempt at a one world government holds very true and the ability to see the line that distinguishes republicans and democrats dwindles just as the book points out.
But other than that it is written well and flows nicely.I wouldn’t say it is an easy read as it is mostly about the history of political conspiracy and that just isn’t a light simple read.
The craziest thing about this nutty book, bible for the Birchers as it was, is that some people associated with today's Tea Party movement have notions to the right of Allen.Read "None Dare Call It Conspriacy" first and then read:   by Richard Hofstadter. You'll see what I mean.
I'm currently reading None dare call it conspiracy while listening to Karl Marx communist manifesto. They dove tail nicely together and are helpful in getting the full scope of governmental control and the mass of PID so eagerly choosing what's socially acceptable and so afraid to buck the system. The medias control over the mass and the pop culture. We are moving so rapidly to socialism nearer yet to communism. Much like the Romans we would rather be entertained the be bothered with demonstration or any labor toward restoring the republic. It's a great read!!
This book gave me a clear understanding of the conspiracies that I used to think were just theories. My eyes are opened and I can't help but ache for the state that our country is in. I love America and pray for it's protection from evil and designing men in these last days.
When I found out that President Ezra Taft Benson recommended during his General Conference talk in April 1972 (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pJNMc...) that every member needed to read this book, I decided that I had better read it.
This book is very informative and pulls back the curtain on Lucifer's plans in these last days.
A lot of times these secret combinations are hard learn about.
However, in order to appreciate the good, we have to know its opposition.
As the scripture says: "we should waste and wear out our lives in bringing to light all the hidden things of darkness, wherein we know them; and they are truly manifest from heaven—" D&C 123:13
"I wish that every citizen of every country in the free world and every slave behind the Iron Curtain might read this book." Ezra Taft Benson, Secretary of Agriculture to President Eisenhower for 8 years So I took the plunge and read it.
It is an quick read, you can get thru the entire book in a couple hours.
But it is full of so much truth and documented facts that you simply can't deny what has happened to our nation.SOCIALISM.I was so passionate about its contents that I loaned the book out and never got it back LOL Oh well, so long as MORE people have a chance to read it!
It's important to note that this book has never been debunked or disproven. Check out the Rockefeller Files by Gary Allen, as well.It details the fact that you were all sold out before your great grandparents were born....
Full bore crazy eight bonkers. Not since I read Pat Robertson's New World Order have I witnessed such earnestness in slapstick goofiness.  The revelations that John Mitchell and Kissinger were originally Rockefeller guys kind of took me by surprise though.
Pretty "fun" book for me to read. I was already familiar with the core concept and most the ideas but the book is actually a lot more history than anything else which kept it interesting for me.

anyone?Chapter 4: "The conspirators now had created the mechanisms to run up the debt, to collect the debt, and (for themselves) to avoid the taxes required to pay the yearly interest on the debt.
Nothing runs up a national debt like a war.
"Chapter 7: "What we are witnessing is the Communist tactic of pressure from above and pressure from below, described by Communist historian Jan Kozak as the device used by the Reds to capture control of Czecho-Slovakia.
The street rioters are pawns, shills, puppets, and dupes for an oligarchy of elitist conspirators working above to turn America's limited government into an unlimited government with total control over our lives and property.""THAT IS THE STRATEGY.
The 2013 special edition of None Dare Call It Conspiracy is a quick read, but jam-packed with information that is truly eye-opening.
Author Gary Allen gives you an unobstructed view into the inner workings of the government, and reveals who the true decision makers are and their real motives for being in politics.
Once your eyes are open, it is impossible to shut them and continue living in ignorance.
This book is honest, and pulls back the curtain to reveal the high-profile puppeteers who are pulling the strings behind the major world events going on TODAY!

I read this interesting book many years ago. I remember that it was impossible to find a copy of it in major bookstores. In some ways the book reminded me of the information in Behold a Pale Horse.
According to this book, the US government and financial interests are secretly conspiring to socialise America and bring about a communist one-world government.
I can kind of understand why some conspiracy-minded people might have believed this theory back in the 1970s, but America has since won the Cold War. Capitalism won the Cold War. Neoliberal capitalism has become so thoroughly entrenched as the economic orthodoxy of the world today, and communism has been so utterly deligetimised, that even the left-wing have shifted to other priorities (such as environmental and “identity” issues, like minority rights).
O autor parte do pressuposto de que a história não é apenas uma sucessão de fatos, mas uma série de fatos ordenados e organizados por grupos de poder.
No entanto, é óbvio que a influência desses grupos de poder não é a única força histórica agindo no mundo.Nesse contexto, é interessante lembrar a definição do filósofo Olavo de Carvalho sobre ações históricas, elas são as ações onde um agente histórico consegue domar os resultados, exemplos disso são a Revolução Chinesa e a Revolução Francesa.
O livro se encontra desatualizado por não mostrar os novos atores, mas as táticas ainda são iguais.
