https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1897.Eiger_Dreams
In this collection of essays, Krakauer relates several stories of his personal adventures, one about a youthful, and maybe foolish venture to a particularly difficult climb in Alaska, another about his attempt at Eiger.
But I most enjoy Krakauer when he writes about the Damon-Runyon-esque characters who inhabit the world of extreme adventuring.
Chamonix is a town in France Krakauer calls the “death sport capital of the world.” The story features a bar in which large screens entertain the crowd with diverse scenes of death and near death.
Eiger Dreams is a fast, entertaining and informative read.
One chapter is about ice climbing, while another describes the experience of living in a tent for days on end, while a storm makes it impossible to get out.A small stream of dry humor runs throughout the book.
They just wondered how much money there was in climbing such a mountain.I am not a climber, but I find that Krakauer's writing style is ridiculously engaging.
I can understand why some people think that Krakauer is a selfish bastard at times, because the very act of climbing is often a selfish one, in the eyes of others.
Considering the effects of altitude on the human brain, I don't think any armchair philosophizing or moralizing applies here- people simply cannot and do not behave normally at 26000 feet, and everyone who climbs that high knows that to do so is to put your life on the line.
Love Krakauer. These essays are somewhat dated, but still interesting and delivered in his inimitable style. The was the last book fo his I had not already read, and while it ranks near the bottom as far as favorites because of the datedness and form, I'm glad I read it and I hope he is working on his next.
This is a collection of essays written at different times and publshed in various magazines.I didn't know a lot about climbing and climbers before reading this but I have to say I was fascinated by these stories from the beginning, and this fascination continued right through to the end.I also started down the proverbial rabbit hole and eagerly found out more mountaineering and the people who choose to do this highly dangerous obsessive activity.I've read Jon Krakauer before and want to read more from him soon as I really enjoy his writing.
In a previous book I had read by Krakauer "Into Thin Air"---about mountain climbing-- there was a quote that has stuck with me.
One of the Everest mountaineers who chose not to try and help a climber (who subsequently died from being left behind) said this to justify his actions:"There is no morality above 26,000 feet".
No, I will never know how it feels to summit Everest or climb, well, probably ever, over 12,000 ft, but Krakauer has a way of making the experience approachable and yet awe-inspiring at the same time.
Although I enjoyed this collection immensely, the writing wasn't Krakauer's strongest -- in fact, I'd label it his weakest effort to date when compared with Into the Wild and Into Thin Air. With the exception of the last piece, "Devil's Thumb," the book was composed entirely of clipped magazine articles.
Complaints aside, however, the book was wonderful and showed a humanity that I haven't often found in other climbing/mountaineering/alpinist books.
Reading it reminded me how much I enjoy these adventure-fluff stories -- they're my equivalent of a romance novel -- and it has been the impetus for me to get back into the non-fiction adventure genre.
After Jon Krakauer's Into Thin Air made him writer-famous, his publisher started pushing this essay collection, originally published in 1990, for readers who couldn't get enough of Krakauer's tales of mountains and the people who (attempt to) climb them.
While I'm very glad I read the final two essays, I would say that on the whole this book is probably just for climbers and Krakauer completists.
Indeed, Jon Krakauer is the master of the literature of Adventure...I always hated literature.
But Jon has his way in literature.
It is completely impossible for me to write so many worlds about a mountain.
But for Jon, it is more like a book of worlds.
Hats off to him.About this book:-The description of the book claims to reveal answer for the most significant question, - why would a normal want to do this stuff (adventure stuff)?
The whole story revolves around John Gill, the person who first started 'Bouldering' and the concept of 'Bouldering'.To read the whole review, click the below link...http://booksreviewwala.blogspot.in/20...
I read Eiger Dreams many years after Into Thin Air, which detailed the tragedy on Everest in 1996.
Eiger Dreams is a compendium of magazine articles Krakauer wrote in the 80s.
I always wondered how Krakauer could be such a selfish, cowardly, and ultimately detestable human being, as he admits being near the summit of Everest, as he cowers safely in his tent after his own successful summiting, while others freeze to death in a blizzard on the mountaintop.Well, now I know.
Nature, red in tooth and claw, is as honest and implacable in her truths as Krakauer is in his.
I sat on a boulder and devoured this book until it was my turn to climb or belay.
Krakauer’s narrative style is simple and straight forward but still evocative in its description of nature because he doesn’t add anything superfluous, and that’s as it should be- K2, Eiger, Chamoix, etc., do not favor the superfluous, and they certainly don’t need anyone to dress up their reputations.
Krakauer knows mountains and he knows climbing, personally.
What he gives us in this collection of articles, memoirs, and musings helps a non-climber, like me, come closer to figuring out why these guys and gals are willing to risk their lives on a rock face.Those who have read his later works, including Into the Wild and Into Thin Air, will find some of this territory familiar.
I, too, came to Eiger Dreams well after having other Krakauer works under my belt.
I terms of sheer enjoyment, he rightly uses his personal experience as bookends; covering climbs of Mt. Blanc and the Devils Thumb.
Jon Krakauer is one of my very favorite nonfiction writers.
This book is somewhat similar to the latter, in that it deals with mountain climbing, but this is a collection of shorter pieces he published in magazines, whereas Into Thin Air tells the story of a particularly deadly season on Mount Everest.
But Krakauer makes me feel like I can almost understand why these people risk their lives on such extreme climbs.
The pieces in Eiger Dreams are set around the world--Alaska, Europe, the Himalaya--and introduce the reader to some of the interesting and slightly crazy people who climb mountains.
I first read this book Oct 26, 2013.
This book has exciting stories of mountain/rock climbers all over the world.
After that, however, the stories got old.The second time was Oct.20, 2017.
The men and women in these short stories are ADDICTED to mountain climbing.
Each of them spends time in imminent danger of death.
It is exciting and educational to read about their stories.
I didn’t like reading on and on about so many scrapes with ice, winds and death.
I did learn interesting things about some of the biggest mountains in the world, though, which was nice.
So I approached this book thinking - I climb, I'm obsessed with mountains and Jon Krakauer is great, this should be fun. In the end I was like WHY AREN'T ALL OF THESE STORIES MOVIES!?!?!?! Seriously - every single story in here is just really fantastic. The most satisfying collection of essays I've read in quite a while.
The stories explore a wide-range of mountaineering-related disciplines from climbs in the Himalayan high-mountains to complex low-height bouldering.This is an enjoyable book that has some real standout tales that most non-climbers would never hear about; just a few of the stories I'd recommend are 'Gill', The Flyboys, Club Denali, Chamonix and The Devil's Thumb.Krakauer's writing is particularly compelling to me because he goes beyond simply explaining the tasks involved in attempting/achieving a summit.
The book has a bit of a nostalgic feel to it given much of it is set in the early to late 80s - I loved the references to Fluro clothing!So if you like high adventure, I'd recommend this book.
Eiger Dreams is a terrific collection of (mostly) previously published articles by mountaineering maestro, outdoorsman and internationally acclaimed writer Jon Krakauer.
He writes about the summer when thirteen experienced climbers were killed on K2, about the glacier pilots of Talkeetna in Alaska who fly the climbers out to base camps under (a very risky business to be in!), and about the snobbery amongst the European mountaineering community of Chamonix.
Best of all, at the end, there's a longer version of Krakauer's own experience, when he was twenty-three, of taking on the fearsome Devil's Thumb in Alaska ~ on his own (as opposed to the one included in Into The Wild).
In this case, his early writing (mostly from the 80s, magazines like Outside, where he made his name and Smithsonian) focuses primarily on mountain climbing, as well as rock climbing and canyoneering.
The first book I ever read of his was Into Thin Air, where his writing of real life events read almost like horror, not due to any sensationalism on his part, but due to his crisp, searingly honest portrayal of what went down there on Everest.
That said, Kathmandu and Everest base camp are on my bucket list and primarily due to reading Krakauer's writing over the years.
I read this book while traveling in Switzerland and viewing the majestic Eiger myself, so that certainly helped me to understand the kind of dreamy romance Krakauer has toward climbing the largest mountains.
It was clear that this was an early book of his and that he has honed his writing significantly since then--his groupie, fan-girl attitude toward climbers in this book is something that he managed to rein in almost completely by the time he wrote Into Thin Air. Because of his gushiness, I would say this book is one of my least favorites of Krakauer's--but again, totally worth reading and nice to see an early example of his writing.
I received this book for Xmas from my husband as I really enjoy Krakauer's work.
It is a collection of previously published articles for American magazines such as 'Outside', but as I hadn't read those, that wasn't an issue.
Most do date from the 1990's, but apart from 'recent developments in climbing' type comments this didn't detract from the book at all.
As ever, his work is vivd, engaging and thoroughly readable and this collection contains several stories that were so hair-raising (such as landing a light aircraft on an Alaska mountain in thick fog), that I found I kept reading bits aloud to hubby, who is now reading it for himself!
Fantastic stories of mountain climbing. armchair climber in me enjoyed this book a lot.
It’s a love story between humans and “high altitude adventures” – some of which may be best reserved for the seriously unhinged.No book on "high altitude adventures" would be complete without a chapter on Mount Everest.
92).Retreating from Everest, Krakauer whisks readers to frozen waterfall climbs in Alaska to Chamonix, France, to canyoneering in Arizona and Colorado’s Rocky Mountains to “Club Denali.” Along the way, we pick up enough mountaineering lingo to at least fake it: pitch, crater, Cag, hypothermia, piton, Talkeetna, foehn winds, pulmonary edema, and Tigers Milk bars.
It was actually a bit chilling to read and take in but really a crap ton of people jump at Krakauer for not leaving his tent to search for missing climbers when it's like dude, in storms like that where everyone is dead tired, it truly is every man for himself and you know that going into it.
I think the Snow Country review on the back cover sums it up pretty well, "Krakauer's rarest and most enviable skill is his ability to make himself unseen, so the stories unwind as though the reader were front-pointing up a Himalayan serac or hanging by a nubbin in an Arizona canyon."There were a couple of quotes I liked as people tried to explain the allure of mountain climbing.
I didn't bookmark it but there was a part towards the end where there's a quote that 1/30 people die trying to climb Everest (this was in the 80s) and that 1/5 die tried to summit K2.
Like other says, you really have to know climbing to get why some of these pieces matter.
He offers an interesting insight into the climbing world, however without being able to provide the depth that he can in his traditional books something is always lacking in the stories.
Obviously if you were reading the articles in a magazine (a climbing magazine for instance) then they will probably be informative but if you want to read about mountaineering & Jon Krakauer reading Into Thin Air. It provides more depth and vision about the realities of climbing that I think all of these articles put together ever could.
I thought that I'd like it as I do enjoy reading about people's adventures and found the two other Krakauer books that I have read (Into Thin Air and Into the Wild) to be quite good.
The book was broken up into sections of short stories/climbing history, some of which I found very interesting, but often I found myself spacing out while reading.
The last section on his arrogant attempt at Alaska's Devil's Thumb was engaging as well as a few of the other short blurbs about other people's mountaineering attempts, but all in all I was disappointed.
3.5 stars.
I've read (in order) Into the Wild, Into Thin Air, Under the Banner of Heaven, Where Men Win Glory, and I'm looking forward to reading Missoula as soon as it comes out.
I don't have any particular interest in ice climbing, and others might not have much interest in some of the particular 'sports' talked about, but IMO, it was all worth reading and quite enjoyable.
Devil's Thumb, the longest essay, is essentially a repeat from Into the Wild, though I enjoyed reading it again too.
I'm on a Krakauer binge, and I'm happy to do so.
I understand these are taken from his newspaper writings, but I would have liked this more if he had written more.
Krakauer has a gift for spinning yarns at once comfortable and harrowing.
The shorter stories are forgettable, if informative; the longer ones are riveting.
The last two stories about climbing a summit in Alaska alone and putting a microscope over Yosemite and its squabbling subculture are worth the read alone.
I've been a fan of Krakauer's work since I first read "Into the Wild" and "Into Thin Air," and he doesn't disappoint with "Eiger Dreams." I was expecting stories mostly about Himalayan climbs, but was pleasantly surprised to find stories about bouldering, canyoneering, waterfall climbing, Alaskan summits, and glacier aviation. With his usual captivating voice, Krakauer teaches the reader (from seasoned climbers to those who've never stepped foot on a mountain) incredible things about both the physical and mental processes of climbing.
I enjoyed this book and its many harrowing tales of mountain climbing. While I can't see what these men and women find so alluring in this sport, I certainly can admire them for putting their lives on the line making these climbs. Mr Krakauer makes the telling of this story of the legends of mountain climbing very interesting and frightening for both these people and the mountains he himself has climbed. This is certainly more than a sport for most. It is more like an addiction and as in most addictions, it often results in one's death.
