https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132025.Tarantula
I have read some rather hilarious discussions over the last day across social media regarding Bob Dylan’s right, or lack thereof, to the noble literature prize.
Another post claimed that literature is the written word, so Dylan’s work being spoken/sung means it’s also not literature: its music.These people clearly have never read a poem so they should keep their ignorant mouths shut!Now I had trouble not setting these people to rights.
People who fail to recognise this fact ignore the point of poetry.
Dylan’s work is literature, and for all his contribution to the arts he deserves the noble prize.
It’s a simple trick to understand Bob Dylan, really: all you have to do is approach his lyrics at their apparent meaning.
To deconstruct more rigorously is to miss the point—like trying to appreciate a painting with a microscope.And so we come to the problem of Tarantula, Bob Dylan’s “novel” of 1966.
But even for a rabid fan like me, Tarantula is a repetitive read and somewhat of a chore to complete.
Richy Publisher: How'd ya like to write a novel?Bob Dylan: Dude, I would love to do some blow.What a drag.
Anyone who knows me even sort of well knows that I'm a HUGE Bob Dylan fan, so please don't think I read this in order to publicly hate it.
You would be more on the right track calling Like a Rolling Stone - which he would have astonishingly been writing around the same time as this mostly unreadable collection of brain matter - a novel, considering it actually has, ya know, a story and stuff.
Closing my Nobel Laureate reviews for this year with a contribution to my Irony Removal Course, with only a tiny bit of copy and paste, as I can not put it better than the cynical initial publishing house, worshipping mammon just as much as its rock star author.The original publisher’s note speaks for itself:“In the fall of 1966, we were to publish Bob Dylan’s “first book”.
“You’ll sell a lot of copies of that”, they said, not really knowing what THAT was, except that IT was by Bob Dylan.
And all universe in its incarnation as the Swedish Academy actually served Bob Dylan a Nobel Prize in Literature on a plate.
In the course of a career that has spanned over forty years, he has acted as voice-piece and chronicler to several generations, and was one of the first to channel public feeling about racial discrimination and the Vietnam war into popular protest songs.” Of course, of course.
Much like our own Freddie Aguilar during the EDSA Revolution in the 80’s singing “Bayan Ko” with the people going against President Marcos.I said that Bob Dylan has a beautiful mind not only because of “Blowing in the Wind” but particularly and especially because of this book.
Bob Dylan can do anything.See Excerpt, I think it was hysterical."…look you asshole – tho I might be nothing but a butter sculptor, I refuse to go on working with the idea of your praising my reward – like what are your credentials anyway?
Except for talking about all us butter sculptors, what else do you do?
Do you know what it feels like to make some butter sculpture?
Do you know what it feels like to actually ooze that butter around & create something of fantastic worth?
I found this quite hard to read because Dylan's writing is so intensely saturated with images of his consumer culture, people, objects and his critiques of capitalism.
I mean those are all good stuff, but intense is not really what I needed right now.Nevertheless, from listening to his music daily I greatly appreciate the power of Dylan's words, and in relation to the 60s counter-culture this was a collection I thought was incredibly powerful in terms of the movement he came to define.
"ova zemlja je tvoja zemlja & ova zemlja je moja zemlja - nema frke - ali svetom upravljaju oni koji ionako nikad ne slušaju muziku"
Like any pretentious highschool Bob Dylan fan, at one point I actually assumed that this collection of poems not only made sense, but actually contained profound truths. Now that I've matured, I can see the humor in this error.
Dylan entremeia uma prosa poética de fluxo de consciência com poemas epistolares, tudo isso numa verve deveras beatnik.
Das hat aber weniger mit Qualität und Anspruch des Werkes zu tun, sondern mehr an meinem persönlichen Geschmack.Mit "Tarantel" habe ich mir aber nun doch den ersten Roman der amerikanischen Legende zu Gemüte geführt - mit einigen Überraschungen.
Das macht vereinzelt Spass und fordert immer, wirklich erschlossen hat sich mir allerdings zu wenig für eine lohnenswerte Lektüre.
Sicherlich ist es fatal, diese Texte als "Schund" abzutun - und meine Wertung von zwei Sternen soll dies auch gar nicht aussagen.Vielmehr entzieht sich "Tarantel" einem Vergleich mit Standard-Literatur oder gar den Songtexten von Dylan, und ist ein eigener Kosmos, der einem überbordenden Kopf entsprungen ist.
So Ian Bell, whose Dylan bio is fucking amazing, and who gives no quarter at all on bullshit, has convinced me to give this another chance, because he sees merit in it.
No doubt, it's still a failure, but he makes the argument that it's not near as bad as its detractors make it out to be (and not near as good as Dylan wanted it to be).
Any case, I only rifled it before dismissing it.
I'll also take the opportunity here to reiterate: Bell's The Lives Of Bob Dylan is phenomenal!
CAUTION: THIS BOOK IS NOT TO BE TAKEN SERIOUSLY. So said Bob Dylan. If you try to make sense of it, your skull will crack open, grey matter will slither out and run down the street, leaving your brainstem flapping a frantic goodbye.
What a joke
dear mergatroidif all i gotta do to be a big star is act naturally, then by next year i oughta be even bigger than roger miller!
sent me up like a rainy day woman he did.
now, louise tells me some group called lovin spoonful are gonna be here next week with 1352 others, she says by the end of the year even the record company sharks will be drinkin champagne from their coffins.
always did like yr lbj impression!
by the way i switched to winstons this year.
I will start by stating that I'm heavily biased, in that I adore Bob Dylan.
His writing is like experimental jazz: on the fly, off the cuff, vibrant, rattles inside your bones, offers that warm-burn an extended hand toward a campfire provides.
If you like his lyrics from the 60s (that's also the timeframe in which he wrote Tarantula), read this collection of poems and prose.
It's as simple as that.
A narrative description of the book is fruitless; it's a spontaneous work of poetic genius.
Read it aloud and you'll be hooked.
A line from the text, "...
Tarantula was a nostalgic trip through time and very interesting, it was really worth reading.

En particular este libro evoca su época rockera, y sus canciones más caóticas de ese periodo.
Las ideas se fusionan como a Dylan se le ocurría y por largos periodos no se sabe de qué habla.
Al igual que las canciones que antes mencioné, y en general de la época 1964-1966, parece que el objetivo de Dylan es transmitir 'algo', un sentimiento más allá de una idea, mediante imágenes, lo que hace de forma increíble.
Bob Dylan is all about the compounding of words.
After I read this book, I headed to university.
Every night while everyone was out at the bars, I would write Tarantula-esque letters to people on their boards.
It got to be a thing, and people really looked forward to their weird letters.
When I read this book, I couldn't help but laugh.
If you like words, if you like imagery, you might appreciate the stylings of Mr. Bob Dylan.
It is no wonder he wrote the songs he did, having the imagination and word skills to create a thing like TARANTULA.
This was just an incredibly bad collection of poems and prose poems that Dylan wrote in the '60's under loads of pressure to deliver a book that he'd been paid an advance on almost 3 years prior to publication.
I did not have high expectations going into reading this collection, but could not have been prepared for just how bad it was.
I really hope that in his current book deal he is not considering publishing any more poems.
I don't know if both he and the publisher thought that his strength as a song writer could carry him in this endeavor.
i find that its absolute nonsense is the reason why i enjoy this book, its the rhythm...the tone...the juxtaposition of words that i enjoy...its unlike anything ive read...i love dylan and anyone else who enjoys dylan from the sixties i would recommend this book to. if he wanted it to be a clear cut story he woulda written one...but this rant has so much more to it.
This book sucks, I think Bob wrote it on the toilet when he was on acid and then accidently sent it in to a publisher. They must have thought Bob Dylan = instant money on sales. Wrong. Love the man's music, this book sucks. This is coming from someone that owns 31 of his albums and loves his stuff too.
what can I say? if you want a book that makes any logical sense, don't buy this. But if you're a fan of bob dylan with good humour and a sense of the ridiculous then you'll find it hilarious.
I picked this book up under the impression that a winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature must be at least a competent writer.
Which I suppose means I should take them more seriously since it goes without saying that young people are the only reliable arbiters of good taste.I hated this book.
At some point I realized I was still reading it just to have something to complain about, just to punish myself for my own bad teen-angst poetry.
This book is criminal.
Tarantula is quite possibly the worst book I've ever read.
This isn't a book.
It isn't even writing.I finished this book only so I could say it's the worst 'book' I've ever read.
And I don't feel the need to establish some sort of cred and say "blah blah I like Dylan's music blah".
Of course I like Dylan's music.
That's why I read this book.
The  only reason people read this is because they like his music.
This is complete garbage.
Consciousness has a point.
At least they were completing thoughts.
Faute de pouvoir donner cinq étrons, je lui donne une étoile.On the back cover of one his first albums Dylan informed his readers that his work had literary qualities and that in addition to his lyrics, he had also written two novels.
In fact he had not written any novels.
However, the offers from publishers flooded in.
Dylan subsequently stated in a Rolling Stone interview that he simply took the highest offer and proceed to produce a book.The joke which was never very good is now dead.
This thing should never made it to market and should have been pulled off the shelves years ago.
I really enjoyed this. At the beginning it kinda reminded me of a surreal Spoon Rivers Anthology but as it progressed it addressed political and cultural events of the 1960s. One poem I enjoy in particular was one about wondering why people are angry but never asking. It really reflected the Generation gap in post-war America. I know I've missed some references and will definitely return to this piece in the future.
Spännande läsupplevelse, men den är ju tyvärr FULLKOMLIGT obegriplig för någon som inte läst typ 360 poäng litteraturvetenskap. Alla som säger något annat ljuger. Idéen och tanken är bättre än resultatet
Got no idea of what it was ... but something beautiful for sure.
