https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32426.Icebound
This is a very early Dean Koontz originally published under a pseudonym and it is unlike his normal books. Apparently his inspiration was Alistair MacLean and this book is certainly an adventure written in that style. The story is very exciting and very tense. It all takes place in less than a day and the suspense is racked up as each chapter is labelled as a count down to an explosion which will probably end everyone's lives. It was all most entertaining and I enjoyed it very much.
Koontzland Group Read - November 2018  Russian Scientists find Russia learn "icecaps" have low bacteria than water. American scientists, Drs. Harry & Rita Carpenter review the discovery.Stranded on a iceberg with bombs ticking under them need to find a way out.Too much ice for a Russian submarine to rescue them. A crew members killed by a crew member. International scientists work to tow an iceberg to rescue and/or relief for droughts. The one book Dean Koontz wrote under the pen name Davi
Koontzland Group Read - November 2018
  
Russian Scientists find Russia learn "icecaps" have low bacteria than water. American scientists, Drs. Harry & Rita Carpenter review the discovery.Stranded on a iceberg with bombs ticking under them need to find a way out.Too much ice for a Russian submarine to rescue them. A crew members killed by a crew member. International scientists work to tow an iceberg to rescue and/or relief for droughts. The one book Dean Koontz wrote under the pen name David Axton.Koontzland - Group Home
I honestly could not put this book down from start to finish. This book was a bit different than many of Koontz's books in that it had no horror or no bizarre characters that he writes so well. Instead, it was just flat out non-stop suspense from beginning to end. Wow! It really was incredible.I love Dean Koontz, but this book surprised me in a good way. I was just blown away.It is definitely worth reading. Give it a try, and if you like this one, read Intensity by Dean Koontz next.
I really enjoyed the thrill of this book too, and couldn't believe how the story reeled me in and kept me turning the pages.
A major storm is abound and personal battles are fought, and eventually overcome.
the story sure seemed to make me believe that something like that could take place if it were necessary.
I really learned that personal struggles can be overcome, and that consistent practice and perserverance along with help from caring friends and family can make it possible to achieve the end result.
If you like a page turner this one is excellent.
". . . frostbite, high explosives, and underwater life-or-death battles with psychopaths."My favorite part of this novel is the submarine rescue mission, led by Nikita Gorov and the backstory of his son. This section was extremely emotional and intense, contemplating the choices we make in life.My opinion prior to 2014: I do not like this book :-(I recommend Deception Point by Dan Brown - it is so much more better imho 2014: I finally succeeded in reading Icebound after three previous attempts.
This section was extremely emotional and intense, contemplating the choices we make in life.My opinion prior to 2014: I do not like this book :-(I recommend Deception Point by Dan Brown - it is so much more better imho
It is the only book like this written by Dean Koontz.
Dean writes in the afterword: "...this is the only book of its type I've written, and if readers wanted another, I'd have nothing to offer...."I enjoyed hearing about one character who is able to overcome her fears.
Originally published as "Prison of Ice" in 1976, "Icebound" is an extensive rewrite from 1995.From the blurb:"Conducting a strange and urgent experiment of the Arctic icefield, a team of scientists has planted sixty powerful explosive charges that will detonate at midnight.
Koontz manages to capture and describe the Arctic setting in a way that makes the reader feel as if he was there, and it shows his mastery when it comes to maintaining suspense and keeping pace of the story to make reader through the whole book.
Not one of Koontz' best novels, but it was entertaining and chilling - literally. This novel uses ice and murder to haunt its readers in a very effective way, and it's definitely worth reading.
This was a perfectly fine action/adventure/thriller. The little blurb tells you all that you need to know. Nope not much deep character development and all that jazz. Simply a solid, seat of your pants kinda thrill. A good quick read for an in between kinda reading funk. You all know what I mean!
This is a review of the audio book. (books on CD)This was probably the most enjoyable audio book I've listened to, to date.I've also never read Dean Koontz, so this one was definitely new to me. Fascinatingly suspenseful story. Genuinely interesting characters. Amazing setting. I'd actually still go and actually read this one, even after having listened to the whole thing. I most definitely recommend it for others to read.Not the typical sci-fi/horror that Koontz is known for, but he does a miraculous job with this departure from his norm. Look forward to reading more of his work sometime.
This was the first Koontz book I ever read! It is different from his other books, this is more action/adventure. No sci-fi stuff. But I liked it a lot and thought the suspence was good. I enjoyed it,even though it is a little different than his other books.
While he is clearly comfortable with the supernatural, canines, and government conspiracy, his true talents lies within the adventure-suspense novel and ‘Icebound’ is a crowning achievement.
This is the purest Koontz has ever been as an author, no shenanigans, no preaching, just pure action-adventure.
With ‘Icebound’, Koontz is not only at the top of his games character wise, but with plot and setting as well.
Koontz wisely puts anything supernatural on the backburner as Koontz uses Mother Nature and the darker side of humanity as the true antagonist.
The forever elusive five-star Koontz novel.
Suspenseful and thrilling, it kept me guessing right up to the end.
:-) My only complaints, and they are huge ones in my opinion, are that we found out what happened to everyone after the rescue except Brian!
My other complaint was that the Russian Captain, Nikita Gorov, referred to his son as "Nikki." I'm being nit-picky about this only because I lived in Russia once upon a time, but it grated on me every time I read "Nikki." Nikolai is shortened to Kolya most commonly, or Nika less commonly.
The pages of this book flip over as if driven by an Arctic wind. The novel delivers suspense that builds and reaches its icy arms around the reader. Written in the tradition of Alistair MacLean, Koontz delivers action, suspense, and entertaining characters. This is his only adventure story that I know of, and I wish he would write some more. Although I don't read a lot of Koontz's books, I enjoyed this one.
Bir romandaki ideal hız nasıl olmalıdır? Gerilim dozajı nasıl belirlenir ve nasıl diri tutulur? Dean Koontz bunun dersini veriyor "Buzlar Arasında" isimli romanında.
There are a number of other characters, including an electronics expert, a geologist, a meteorologist (and Rita’s former lover, tension?) another scientist, and another meteorologist who’s stayed behind at the base camp on the glacier.
Add a time element (goin’ off at midnight) and we have the formula for an enjoyable thriller.There’s a lot of fast and furious action, suspense, head-scratching as to the identity of the assailant, neo-cold-war political stuff, and more than a bit of glacier geology along the way, I thoroughly enjoyed this book and would recommend it.
Having dropped the last Dean Koontz book I read, I became a bit skeptical when choosing another book from him.
Then I realized something: I love his old books more than the recent ones.
By old books, I mean the ones written before the 2000s.I really enjoyed this book.
Its suspense got me hooked from two directions: kept me wondering whether the expedition team would make it out of the berg on time; also kept me wondering who among them looked like a potential killer.
And Dean Koontz just describes everything, making it feel like I’m on the ice with them.
In my humble opinion this book got more interesting and exciting as I turned the pages over.Probably it helped me to know that this book is written in a totally different way than the other traditional Koontz books.
He wrote this book trying to write an action book that would be a homage to Alistair MacLean and not following the line of his classic ones.
If you only like his classic style stay away from this book.
If you're waiting for a Koontz classical book then choose something else because otherwise you will find this disappointing.
In my opinion he writes down to his readers.
I have not finished books he has written, because his writing irritates the hell out of me.
I have read Strangers and Phantoms as well, both of which could have been good if they were written by someone else.Icebound is good because, as Koontz says himself, he was writing this as a James Bond type of book.
His terrible writing style still emerges from time to time but this book was genuinely enjoyable.
If you are going to read any of his books this is as good as it gets.
Icebound is not a book that wold attract my attention. Thanks to this group I did read it. It was a suspense book completely different from all of Koontz other books. It was a page turner. Spoiler alert. As always their are continuous hints at the various characters backgrounds which adds suspense to all his books. I enjoyed this book. Surprisingly different.
It's been so long since I've read anything by Dean Koontz, so I decided to go with Icebound, it was pretty interesting, a different turn for Koontz, I didn't really consider it a horror book like his other books. The only thing about this book is it didn't seem to have that Koontz feeling to it, but all in all it was a good book.
I've read this book four times, and it never loses its excitement or intensity. I love Dean R Koontz. He is an amazing writer.
super predictable and dull
It was the third selection for our book club, and actually it was my pick.
A science team is working on a glacier in the Arctic to help stop droughts in the United States by planting bombs along the glacier.
The team is stuck on the iceberg with all of the bombs, that will be detonating in twelve hours.
There's a Russian submarine intercepting their cries for help.
Will the Russians help or hinder the team's attempts to get to safety?
I had some trouble getting through the first part of the book.
I kept getting a lot of the guys on the team mixed up.
Maybe I'm a weird mood, because the last couple of months I've been giving a lot of two stars for many books.
I'm just having trouble finding a magical book one that you love and can't put down because you don't want too and not because you started reading it.
I thought this was really boring book for a Kootnz novel despite it's concept, which should have been awesome.
( being trapped on ice floating iceberg in a storm, with bombs ticking away!
But someone may like it, so I do not want to discourage anyone from reading this book.
i myself feel paralyzed in the winter from having a disability. Add ice to the mix? For me it brings panic attacks. Scientists working in Alaska become trapped on the ice away from their sleep lodging. Why they insert explosives into the glacier I forgot, but once they become trapped in the middle of frozen land, they realize the dynomite can go off at any moment. the whole second half of the book is about survival of the ice and each other.
This book kept you reading. After I finished it I found out that Koontz wrote this under a pen name since it was his first spy/suspense style of book and since re-released it under his name. It is definitely different than his usual style and there are no crazy supernatural type of creatures as is his norm, but good all the same.
This was classified as horror but to me it seemed like more of an adventure book ala Clive Cussler. Scientists decide they can solve the California drought by dragging icebergs from the polar regions until an earthquake breaks off their camp from help.
Excellent story with one of the best twists i have read. Ihad no idea who was the enemy caught me out.
A different Koonz book written under a pen name. Still a pretty good action thriller with his typical care to characters.
A simple yet fantastic read. The pace was just quick enough to keep me interested and blaze through it.
