https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53013.Winged_Victory
In "WINGED VICTORY", the reader is given access to the all the perils, fears, and frustrations faced by the young pilot Tom Cundall, who, each day he went off on patrol, gambled with his life and fought to keep his sanity, never knowing which friends wouldn't return to the aerodrome.
"WINGED VICTORY" brings back the immediacy of what it was like to be a British fighter pilot on the Western Front in the last year of the First World War. Highly recommended.
I had been warned that books about WW1 can be tedious.
I wanted to find out more the life of the average Pilot flying in WW1.
I got more than I bargained for.The Author was flying Sopwith Camels doing the grunt work.
Strafing trenches, bombing troops and low observation work.
It wasn't the glory work depicted in many other books.
We get into the mind of the pilots who loved and hated their Camels and the mental fatigue that wore on them day after day.
If you want to truly know the unvarnished story of what flying in WW1 was like, then read this book.
I think this is the best fictional air war story that I have read.
I have been used to reading that Camels were the best British fighters in the war, but they had their drawbacks, such as a lack of speed and low operating ceiling, which meant the Camel squadrons were often detailed to ground attack missions, which our hero very understandably dreads.
The plane he seems to wish he was flying was the Sopwith Dolphin, which being fast and good at high altitude, was never detailed to ground attack.I have read other books about air campaigns, such as bomber command's during the war.
The author was himself a WWI pilot, and there is a great feeling of authenticity about the novel.The central character, Tom Cundall, is a former officer of "The PBI", who retrains as a pilot after being shot in the foot.
Cundall has been on active service with the RFC (as it was then) for only a couple of months, but the overall feel of the novel is one of immense war weariness.
I can understand that view, but the unrelenting nature of the war, and the pressure that brings, is crucial to the story.Reading about the author after finishing the novel suggests that many of the incidents described in the book were derived from his personal experiences.
an Excellent AccountWinged Victory has to rank among the best-written of all accounts of war in the air! It's straight-forward honesty is refreshing as it is thought provoking. Truly a classic.
Contrary's review:http://www.contrarymagazine.com/Contr...
Harrowing but captivating..
But then you might question yourself again as the book is really about the protagonists own battle against fear which grows throughout the story.The story begins in the later stages of World War 1 in France where the protagonist is a pilot with the British Royal Flying Corps in a squadron mainly tasked with attacking quite lethally defended enemy ground targets.
The author writes in a surprisingly modern style and the book contains the types of people and life challenges that we all experience at some time or another but just not magnified to the scale that being in a war produces.
But for the patient reader willing to push on with the same doggedness as the pilots themselves, the rewards of reading this book are great.
One obtains a realistic view of the life of a WWI pilot who flew on bombing missions, aerial surveillance, and dogfights against German foes.
Far from offering a romantic view of war, one instead sees how dull and depressing it could be to fly in unpredictable machines without ever really knowing whether you or your friends would return to the air base alive.
This is an exploration of a man in extraordinary circumstances trying to survive and searching for his soul. Flying in World War One makes a marvelous canvas on which to explore the struggles of a man in combat. It's easy to put this book down in the first chapters but stick with it.
Scarily TrueIt's interesting that even after 50 years Yeates captured the essence of constant low flying work in combat, with the resultant thoughts and psychological tolls.
See Wikipedia notes on the Battle of Michael. April 1918
Depressing novel/memoir of WW1 pilots - bleak and honest in its portrayal.
Totally crap !! NEVER got off the ground !!
The allied air war of WW I .Always an interest in the first world war. A mans struggle to go till the end . a must read !
I began with the 1993 edition but it was flawed (missing pages), also that publication used stiffer thicker paper making it a chore to read as one had to crush the book flat in order to read the words closest to the spine (grrrr).
[legerity: It is derived from words in Middle and Old French and ultimately Latin that all mean "light in weight." These days, "legerity" can describe a nimbleness of mind as well as of the feet.
Page 455, some prescient words, "Somehow it was understood to mean that the final victory of the Allies would end war for ever.
This book is not so much "a great read" unless you are fairly interested in the subject matter.
Tom Cundall (Yeates) arrives in France about the New Year 1918, at a time when the RAF (as it was to become in April that year) had already established complete daylight air superiority.
The flying circuses were, to all intents and purposes, a failure, and after April 1917, when the allies had learnt how to counter the circuses, the Germans were well and truly beaten in the air.
In fact Tom quickly tires of shooting German schoolboys out of the sky.I think this book is out of print now.
I was drawn to read this when it was mentioned in a biography of Lawrence of Arabia as being one of the most accurate descriptions of WW1 that had been written.
It comes over (I cannot personally know) as a very accurate picture of a young pilot, Tom Cundall, in the RFC / RAF in early / mid 1918.
The author has an interesting way of describing anti-aircraft fire, nicknamed "Archie" - he treats it as a person, and ascribes a personality to it as it fires at him and his fellows.
Indeed, Williamson the author even included the fictional "Tom Cundall" in his own fiction, as a way to encourage greater readership of "winged victory".
First published in 1934, ‘Winged Victory’ is a very naturalistic story of the war in the air on the Western Front in 1918.
He offers little or no explanation for some of the terminology he uses, and if you have never read a book about First World War flying before you might find it difficult to understand some of the lingo.
It can be a bit long-winded in places, but the story has the power to absorb you totally, and it is an excellent example of how a novel can be true-to-life without being unbearably dreary and dull.
Up until then, the Germans had dominated the skies over France sending hundreds of Allied airmen to their deaths.
The trade-off was the short life one could expect—maybe a few days or a few weeks and the chance of a slow death, being roasted alive in a slow, flaming descent to earth.
The pilot in this story (as the author must have been) hates it all, unlike Manfred Richthofen, the German ‘Red Baron’, the dazzling merchant of death who gloried in it.
His life story is also well worth studying for comparison and to get the other side of the airwar.
Although I found this book at first quite difficult to get into and laterly could only read it in small bites, it was throughout strangely compelling.
There are some very poetic passages of description, but on the whole the book is quite fast paced and active.
become increasingly important as the book progresses.Set at the time of the formation of the RAF from the RFC, this book takes an honest and fairly stark look at the real experience had by WW1 pilots.
For anyone interested in military aviation or history of RAF, this is one of those books which, even if you don't particularly enjoy it, should be read.
I quickly figured out from the context what was met by 'getting tight', I even understood most uses of 'wind-up', I still couldn't give a fair definition of 'splitarsed'.This starts out extolling the glory and joy of early flying, and the close comradeship of men of war.
While these elements remain throughout the book, it quickly evolves into an examination of the horrors and pointless waste of war.
It destroys men in physical, mental and spiritual ways.
It clearly shows all the best and worst of the first War in the Air. All this is done with prose that is stunningly beautiful and remarkably memorable; even when it describes the terrible.
The Ultimate War BookNo one has ever written a war book like this one.
This is a contradiction, but so is war: live to die, kill to live, and paragraphs of the most exquisite poetic prose I have ever read, and I have read many, many books.
But none like this one.
Yeates goes further than mere war chronicle.
He goes deep into the disintegrating soul of a pilot who lives through the war, and is left with nothing to live for.
A truly amazing book.
He is clearly burned out early in the book, but continues to go out every time his squad is scheduled, even though he has lost faith in the reasons behind the war.Rather than romanticizing WWI pilots as "knights of the air," this more realistically explains the reality of the job, which was often without honor.
He compares successful dogfighting to shooting from ambush into the victim's back.This book can be a bit depressing, but if you want a realistic picture of life as a WWI pilot in the Royal Flying Corps, read this book.
life and death in the RFC. Winged Victory is Yeates' autobiographical account of the punishing air war over the trenches in WW1. The book is well written, descriptive and harrowing, full of action, loss and black humour. a must read for anyone with an interest in the Great War and the young men who fought in it.
As a combat soldier in the ETO and a survivor I could relate to Tom having also lost my best friend to a bomb from a :)German plane.Sgt. Oryll and I were assigned a Halftrack in Bn. maintenance to repair tanks on the battlefield as we could travel any terrain that tank could.We were both tank mechanics and like Tom had many close calls.
Don't be fooled by the weird, unsuitable, jingoistic title, this is one of the best and most unusual war novels I've ever read. It starts a bit slow and can be a bit repetitive but that's the point I think. Not a cheery book in the slightest and a completely different beast from books written by the aces.
Superb Account of a Camel Squadron's WarQuite rightly regarded as a classic. The mix of aerial combat, low level strafing is interwoven with the lie and death on a Camel squadron as it fights its way through the final stages of the First World War. Cannot recommend this highly enough.
Excellent Read!This book does a great job of describing the war in the air and the mental anguish of the flyers. It also provides good description of conditions on the ground and relations between the men. Very few mistakes, too.
A good tale ruined by a creative writing course.I would love to read the original words of Tom Cundall before the greed of a nephew and a creative writing class ruined it. If I want to read a list of meaningless adjectives I will buy a creative writing book.
