https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106489.The_Storyteller_s_Daughter
4.5 starsIf you didn't happen to catch it from the title, this is a retelling of The Arabian Nights. You know, the one about the woman named Shahrazad who keeps herself from getting killed every morning, by spinning the world's greatest To-Be-Continued story every night. Well, this is her version of the tale. And it's good. Really good.The best part is that it's beautifully written, but the author doesn't bore you to death by describing every grain of sand in the desert. I'm definitely going to be checking out more of these once Upon a Time stories.
4,5 Stars!I loved this retelling of the "Arabian Nights" tale.
The story itself is so powerful and the writting is so lyrical and tale-like...
I devoured it in one sitting.
Her characters are vibrant with emotions and faults, they are fatalists and defiants, but most of all they learn from their mistakes, they forgive and move on in their life changed.I sure will check out the rest of the "Once Upon A Time" series of this author.
If the rest are so masterful as this one, then I'm certain it will be a delight to read them.
Those of us that are librarians have decided to devote ourselves to the cause.Why is the Story so powerful?
In the hands of storyteller Dokey, the maiden Shahrazad who must please the king with her nightly story becomes a metaphor for the Story itself.
Will you open your heart to the story-- or not?
And so the maiden is able to heal the King from his damaged, betrayed heart.From the prologue: "A story is alive, as you and I are.
A story beats with the heart of every person who has every strained ears to listen.
On the breath of the storyteller, it soars." Dokey makes a story soar.
Although I couldn't give it 5 stars it was pretty close.I was relieved when Shahrazad (I think that’s her name) marries the King before the first quarter of the book ended, since it usually takes longer for Dokey to let the adventure start.
When Shahrazad started to tell the story to the King and her sister I was preparing myself to read right on through until she was done, because usually when there is a story within a story I can't help thinking,  alright alright I get it, lets just get back to the real story already.
Ever since I read the beautiful, enchanting book that was The Wrath & the Dawn, I've always been on the hunt for retellings of One Thousand and One Nights (collectively known in English as The Arabian Nights).
To be honest, I don't know the full details of the original story, only that an evil king took one bride every night and killed her off the next morning, and so a brave young female storyteller stepped up.
I am not very sure about the ending, though.The Storyteller's Daughter: A Retelling of "The Arabian Nights" was riveting and kept my interest enough to leave me eagerly turning the pages wanting to know what happened next.
Devour The Wrath and the Dawn  by Renee Ahdieh and need another Arabian Nights retelling? Try the 2002 release called The Storyteller's Daughter by Cameron Dokey. The author's writing is absolutely beautiful and truly has a fairytale quality about it. It's a short novel but it has just about everything you could want in a retelling of a classic. I think I need to try more from this author and continue this series of retellings.
Give me a moment and I'll try to explain.Dokey attempts a revisionist version of the classic tale of Shahrazad, incorporating some material from The Arabian Nights, omitting a lot of it, and then creating an elaborate frame that allows all of the characters you'd care about in a happy fairy tale version to be sympathetic, despite doing things like proclaiming that they're going to marry virgins, spend one night with them, and then execute them.
Retelling of "Arabain Nights".My favorite of the Once Upon A Time series.The writing is lovely.Insta-love is not to be found.The characters are believeable and likable.
Previously I have read "Beauty Sleep" by Cameron Dokey, and I liked the story.
Shahrazad decides it is her destiny to step forward and every morning her life is sparred as she tells a story that has no end.I had a lot of trouble getting through this book, even though it is relatively short.
I has hoped that either the story itself or the story Shahrazad tells would engage me, but I struggled to get through them despite the fact that the book is very short.
I had trouble telling that this book was written by the same author that had written "Beauty Sleep".
You think you already know the story but she says that you really know only a small part, and what she is about to relate has never before been told.The book's prologue is probably my favorite part -- Shahrazad comes alive, speaking poetically and directly to you about the nature of stories and catching your interest: "A story is alive, as you and I are.
On the breath of the storyteller, it soars." In this book, we get to hear not only Shahrazad's own story, but also some of the fantastical stories she tells to keep herself alive each night.
Right now, I looked at all the wonderful reviews of this novel and wonder if the people read the same book I did.
Maybe I'm too picky.Go read any translation of nights instead of this.I have problems with this book.
All of sudden she's a wonderful story teller who understands people even though she avoided people by locking herself in her room.
By the way, Shahrazad, her sister, and her mother are the only good women in the story.
It is very unclear why Shahrazad would do what she does (the mini-series was even better here).
Shahrazad is perfect!
She's wonderful!
Plot - It's a retelling but somehow I don't feel like it.
But I enjoy all the Sharazard's story...Character - The character name are all the same...Sharazad, Shazaman, Sharayar, Dinarzard...and I kept confused because of it...World Building - It's didn't descirbe where this place takes...but the author do mention about India and Indochina so I asume it's takes place at our world.Writing Style - Remember when you reading Aesop Fable?
The reading mood was the same.
And she used first and second POV as if the character communicate with the reader.Stars - I like it so this book earn 3 ★.
There are so many wonderful reviews about this book that I think maybe I missed something.
I'm afraid I just didn't enjoy it.
I struggled through every page thinking that maybe it would get more interesting.
It is nonsensical to believe that Shahrazad could have such insight into people without ever having spent any time with any.
The stories that were found in the cloth featured wise, strong women yet in the world around Shahrazad none of those women really existed.
I just found the tale to be boring and it lacked flow.
Maybe this one was a bad choice to start with.
I'm new to the YA fantasy genre so I'm not really sure how to review in comparison to others in this genre. It was a easy, enjoyable read without a ton of filler. The story was simple and straight-forward. Something I think my daughter could and probably should read. (If I could get her into reading).
I really enjoyed reading this re-telling of the Arabian Nights. I thought the characters and plot were very well written. I liked how this story is written like it was being told to a set of readers. Shahrazad was such a great main character. I also love the different chapters had a few stories. I enjoyed reading those and they had great lessons.
It helps if the retelling comes with lovely writing, romance, and a dollop of humor - but adds something entirely new to the old tale.And as fairy tale retellings go, this is a good one.
Scheherazade (or Sheherazad, or Shaharazad, or Shahrazad...) has never been one of the whimpering damsels in distress found so often in the pages of "Grimm's Fairy Tales," and in Cameron Dokey's book she has even more spunk.
She's an excellent heroine.Then why, I ask myself, does she fall in love with such a spineless moron as Shahrayar?Try as I might, I couldn't like him.
Just when Shahrazad dares to believe that she has found a way to keep her life -- and an unexpected love -- a treacherous plot will disrupt her plan.
Now she can only hope that love is strong enough to save her.REVIEW: As much as I read as a child, I somehow never read The Arabian Nights the story of Shahrazad and her 1001 nights of storytelling to the king.
The plot is not deep but the characters are interesting and like most fairy tales there is definitely a moral to the story.
Shahrayar is so distraught that proclaims that since it is unseemly for a king to have no wife, he will wed one bride each new moon.
Months go by without any maiden stepping forward.Shahrazad believes that it is her destiny to help heal the king's heart, so she tricks her father into helping her become the bride.
She has a plan to keep herself alive long enough to change the king's heart.
They even plant one of their own in the position of trusted servant to the king...As the days pass Shahrayar finds himself falling in love with Shahrazad.
Shahrazad's own story is told, along with the stories she weaves, against an authentic ancient middle-eastern background, complete with desert heat, tribal loyalty, exiled kings who are locked away instead of killed, and women who use their beauty and skill-- and sometimes cunning-- to control the men they love, and thus the history of their kingdoms.
(One quote: After finishing a very long story..."I notice that once again it is the women who are most wise," Shahrayar said.
"It is important for even a tale of magic to ring true," Shahrazad replied, her face solemn.
Surprisingly, I enjoyed this one even more than  Beauty Sleep. I wouldn't necessarily call this a fairy tale and the writing style was a little different, but it was the characters that I really enjoyed the most. I also like stories when the hero and heroine must rise above the challenges they face, including ones they've unknowingly created for themselves. Like many fairy tales, it has a little treachery but unlike most fairy tales, however, this one has some blood being spilled. This is definitely YF so the stars reflect a book in this genre.

Great book with a wonderful cast!
Learned great lessons from it!
I enjoyed this book in the time I was reading it.
I breathed a sigh of great victory when I was done with this book.
I have to admit though that I wanted to end this book because I was eager to start on the next book in this series.
I read her background somewhere on the net and I have great admiration for her because of it.
Okay everything is said, I only have one wish and that is for writers of this new generation of YA readers to continue this marvelous series to this day!
I was hesitant to read it because I’m not a big fan of fairy tales, but I really don’t know what I have eaten that made my mind open up this book.
The people don’t like her mother, Maju, so they came to hate Shahrazad also when she was born.
From the tale Shahrazad learned a great lesson which was: “That I should know my own value and never seek to be what I am not.”I don’t want to give much of the story away so I won’t give a complete plot though.
The Storyteller's Daughter is a wonderful story, by far my favorite book.
Now Sharazada is the daughter of Maju the Great and Almighty storyteller and the King's Royal Vizier and best friend.
You see this book is not only a fantasy, but its a love story.
On the breath of the storyteller, it soars." In this book, we get to hear not only Shahrazad's own story, but also some of the fantastical stories she tells to keep herself alive each night.
We learn why the king was so coldhearted and how Shahrazad brings him back to life and love.
Cameron Dokey's retellings are always creative and fun to read.
I got the hang of it after a few chapters, thank goodness.I loved how the book started out.
But not long after the prologue (just a few chapters), I started to lose interest.
From there on, I really enjoyed it.I didn't like the characters too much in this retelling.
(:The Storyteller's Daughter was enjoyable as a whole, but what I really enjoyed reading was the stories within the story—the stories Shahrazad tells.
They were entertaining and held my interest more than the actual book.Usually I complain that Dokey's retellings are too short.
I would probably be harsher towards it, otherwise.The Storyteller's Daughter is one of the stronger books in the series, I think.
I don't know that it held my attention enough that I would have picked it up again, if I'd had to put it down midway through.That said, I enjoyed this book - more than I expected to, as there's something about the writing style that made it difficult for me to emotionally connect with the characters.
Dokey did better with this than I would have expected.This is probably the first book that I thought was pretty much just the right length for the story.
story inspired by the magical and romantic tale of Shahrazad from The Arabian Nights.
Shahrazad, the 17-year-old blind daughter of the king's vizier and Maju, a blind storyteller, concocts a plan to reach the king's heart.
She will begin a story each night that will not be finished in the morning.
Indeed, the king remarks, with humor, that wise women people Shahrazad's stories, but the kings and princes are idiots.
The author actually manages an element of suspense in the present-tense retelling, even though readers familiar with the tale will know its outcome.
An appended note includes more about the tale and the author's retelling.
After reading a book in this Once Upon a Time series by a different author with which I was less than impressed, I wasn't sure what to expect when I opened this book.
Cameron Dokey, however, put my mind at immediate ease with her beautiful writing style, and in 218 pages she weaved an even more beautiful story.
For some authors it would be difficult to show a story through multiple points of view and on multiple story dimensions, but Cameron Dokey did it wonderfully.
Again, a personal thing that is no fault of anyone since Shahrazad's character is significantly older than any pokemon.
"My tale was one of a king so foolish he almost lost everything for not being able to see what was right in front of him."The entire story can be summed up in that one statement.
But since his kingdom needs a queen, he comes up with a plan to marry a maiden every month and kill her the next morning.
The people of the kingdom, who till now loved their king, begin to hate him and are terrified.
It tells us about how people can lose their way completely when they don't trust and love others.
This book was not at all what I was expecting (which I thought would be a flat, plain retelling of a fairytale I wasn't very interested in...
hmmm why did I decide to read it in the first place if I was that much of a pessimist...uh right, back to the review!) What a wonderful surprise this book turned out to be.
Page turning.
The characters were a touch cliché but being a fairytale retelling you can over look that surely.
The main villains in the story were a tad slow to turn up, but then with her King's decree hanging over her head I suppose he was enough darkness to begin.
