https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228199.The_Green_Mile_Part_4
And finally we get to the fantasy and horror section of these collected novellas, and what a satisfying inclusion, with resurrection and a really, really grizzly death.It was almost like a comedy of errors with all the things that went wrong, and I guess I'm just a sick and twisted individual to be like some of those watchers in the rows, crowing to their friends how they got to see him burst into flame and all that.
I mean, what's the use of having friends if you can't live it up a little and make your buddies jealous and all.Sickos.
;)And we're still not done, but we've got some pretty good payoff already.
I can't wait to see what else happens.
If you've seen the film, you'll know how 'bad' the execution of Delacroix is. But reading it? Woahhhhh way more graphic and horrifying. Amazingly written though and descriptively detailed.
This is probably the toughest volume to read for many reasons. 1. Delacroix doesn't just die, King wasn't lying when he wrote the title of this volume2. I hate Percy more than I thought was possible.3. cliffhangers...Why did I do this to myself? Why did I think waiting would be fun? 4.5/5
And the plot thickens... 4.5 stars
Pche, kdybyste jen měli tušení, jak moc mě to baví. :3
Que horror la muerte de Delacroix, aún siendo un asesino peor es el abuso de poder.
John Coffey was standing at his cell door, tears streaming from his strange, distant eyes - it was like watching blood run out of some unhealable but strangely painless wound. -Chapter 6The Bad Breath of Eduard Delacroix. That is what I keep calling this by mistake. A beautifully & shockingly written tale.
I can't help but compare the segments to each other when I put a month between each...I've been reading them on the day of the new moon each month. The sky will be darker all night. This installment is one of the best. It's tense and graphically gruesome. Plus, the ending leaves you desperate for more story.
My favorite part thus far. Moving yet horrifying, all rolled into 60 short pages. I tore through this in one sitting.On to part 5.
Well.....that was tough to read, but couldn't stop myself....That Percy -plain evil & stupid all rolled into one....
Even though you know he's a murderer and burned people, you still felt bad for Del in the end. And Percy has definitely made the list as one of the worst people in literature that I have read about. Seriously that one chapter was so hard to read. I closed my eyes in fear. This was a good one.
My only negative thing about this part of the book, which is why it is a little bit lower than part 3, was that I have a hard time liking Delacroix's character because he actually did do bad things and deserved some punishment for them.
Granted, the way he died was completely unnecessary and horrific, but I feel like I cannot let myself forget how he landed in Cold Mountain Penitentiary and cannot whole - heartedly love him because of those things.
The Bad Death of Eduard Delacroix, aside from the upcoming events of volume six, is to me the saddest of all of the installments.
Delacroix is a lovable and sweet french character, even for a murderer.
It's really hard to read if you don't expect it from seeing the movie, and if you like Delacroix.
When the frenchman arrives to meet his maker via Old Sparky, karma comes around from when he laughed at Percy earlier.
From the bittersweet parting of Eduard and Mr. Jingles, to his frightening and painful death, you'll be loving King's storytelling- but hating Percy Whitmore.
Was a good girl and managed to wait a bit before reading this one. Ok, I was asleep, but it counts! A gripping read, especially the death scene. Quite glad I read it before having my tea. I really hope that Percy gets his comeupance. Knowing King's sense of humour, I'm also hoping it will be really horrible.
Oh, God. Poor Del 😭This book is slowly doing me in. First Mr. Jingles, now Del. Percy is just an incompetent, mean, douchenozzle of the lowest order. King really has a knack for writing about lowlife bullies and arseholes.As things really get going on the mile, I just want to keep reading. This book just pulls you in.
Oh my goodness, what can I say? The most gruesome by far of the ones I have read. I mean I wasn't surprised but I found it hard to eat the rest of my Christmas breakfast.
3.5 stars
King continues to construct a page-turning story with this fourth installment, again closing with a suspenseful plot point that would have driven me crazy if I had to wait a month to resume reading.
So good.I cringed, and I cried.I can't wait to read part 5.
Me and you!Stinky, pinky, phew-phew-phew!”– Wild Bill Wharton’s song about Delacroix’s execution.I saw the movie before I read the books, I’m sorry.
If you didn’t know, the movie is based on the book series by Stephen King.
Even if I did see the movie (which I should have seen after I finished the books, I’m sorry) it still was a breath-taking book series and there were a lot of parts that happened in the book that didn’t happen in the movie.The title of this installment of The Green Mile franchise explains the main plot.
Mi reseña de la historia completa: La milla verde
I loved Eduard Delacroix and his trained mouse... but that hateful guard was DEPLORABLE!!!!!!!!!
It gets better and better as you read on.
John Coffey asks for Mr. Jingles to be brought to him, and Paul acquiesces.
Paul and Brutal corner Percy to tell him his attempt failed and he better transfer out of Block E as soon as possible.
Percy agrees.Delacroix spends his remaining time bonding and saying goodbye to Mr. Jingles, whom he bequeaths to John Coffey for safekeeping.
Unable to admonish Percy or stop the process midway due to the witnesses, Paul and the others must look on as Delacroix flails.
He asks the staff members he trusts to aid him in breaking John out temporarily.

4.5 If there is a character that I truly "hate" it is Percy Wetmore! He is so mean and vindictive! He believes that because he is the Governor's nephew that he can get away with anything. What he did to Eduard Delacroix during his execution was all because Del laughed at him! With each book, the terror is slowly climbing! Stephen King is getting to you through your mind! I always have goosebumps while reading(and not because it's cold)!
Always great. This episode helps hold the story together, bring out the character of the characters, and put some gore into this long bitch! Kind of like we are walking down a green mile, the stories bring a long trek together into something you know is going to end bad. Here is a taste of how bad it can be. Eduard Delacroix is fried/melted alive by Percy and we start to realize John Coffey is innocent.
Stephen King shows his talent in making amazing horror novels in the part of the book, with the death of Eduard Delacroix being the most gruesomely detailed death I have ever read. I also got emotional right before Delacroix was executed, especially with the parting between Eduard and Mr. Jingles. Overall, this was a great part of the book.
And finally we get to the supernatural stuff🔥. At this point, I think Percy is one of my most hated characters of all time...I mean, King wasn’t lying in the title, it was horrifically gruesome. Also, I never thought I’d be saying this, but Paul has actually convinced me that Coffey is innocent...really intense cliffhanger there.
Gutwrenching awful. I could see, even smell the death of Delacroix. Sadness, empathy, compassion, understanding, to horrified and disgusted, sick and murderous. You feel this contempt for Percy and evil satisfaction when characters talk about “gladly shooting him in the face”. It’s all I could think about: “don’t let him get away with this!”.I am so curious and excited about the next part.
