https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28923.When_We_Were_Orphans
He’s fond of phrases like “it is entirely possible,” or “I do not remember quite how this came about.” The watchword for Christopher in the first third of the novel is denial.
This lights a fire under Christopher who realizes the time has come to rescue his parents.
The first fifth of the book is about Christopher pursuing his detective career as a young man in London, 1932.
The second fifth is all flashback to Christopher’s childhood in Shanghai with his parents, his Japanese friend and neighbor, Akira, with whom he plays, and someone known as Uncle Philip, who is not a real uncle at all.
Ishiguro intentionally conflates Christopher's purpose in the city.
My favourite Ishiguro!   “On the contrary, it is never too late to, as you put it, pick up the scent” Indeed, it most certainly isn’t. This book was so, so, deep. I feel like my emotions have been stretched to breaking point when reading. If you’ve not ready any of Ishiguro’s novels before, then don’t be deceived, this is no mere crime novel: this is an exploration of the human soul. Ishiguro has written such a powerful novel here. In the process of questioning the fleeting nature of the past, t
Ishiguro has written such a powerful novel here.
Despite what human will would try to dictate, it can’t ever be changed; it will always remain in the past; it’s finished with.
The power of Ishiguro’s words resides in his evocation of a longing to return to the past, and the futility of it.
The narrative continuously shifted time perspectives, which suggested Bank’s longing to return to his home.
You cannot so easily pick up the tatters of an old life; they are discarded much more easily.
Time changes all, and war is just another catalyst in a dark world.Ishiguro is an excellent writer.
Thus, we enter into a sort of contract with the book in which we agree to be careful, astute readers, who by dint of our diligence and hard work will be treated to the satisfaction of resolution.All along, however, there is a secondary mystery that is actually the primary mystery, and that mystery is twofold: one, when will Christopher realize how deeply, irreparably damaged his perception of the world is, and two, WE THINK when we will learn the truth that his distorted vision has necessarily been hiding from us, despite our best efforts to see through it?
Ishiguro himself saying "It's not my best book".تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه آوریل سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: وقتی یتیم بودیم؛ نویسنده: کازوئو ایشی گورو؛ مترجم: مژده دقیقی؛ تهران، شهر کتاب، هرمس؛ 1381، در 400 ص؛ شابک: 9643630978؛ چاپ دوم 1385؛ چاپ چهارم 1392؛ شابک: 9789643630973؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 ممترجم: مجید غلامی شاهدی؛ تهران، نوید ظهور، 1394؛ در 352 ص؛ شابک: 9786008008156؛ایشی گورو در این رمان نیمه پلیسی، به کندوکاو در زندگی یک کارآگاه خصوصی ژاپنی الاصل؛ که در انگلستان زندگی می‌کند، پرداخته‌ است.
نام شخصیت اصلی در این رمان: «کریستوفر بنکس» است.
A pretty good novel.
Renowned London detective Christopher Banks was raised in the International part of Shanghai, sent to England after both his parents disappeared.
He is smitten with a social climbing siren who figures in his adventure when he returns to Shanghai intent on solving the mystery of his parents’ disappearance.
Of course the Sino-Japanese war, two decades of change in Shanghai, and a chance to run away with the girl of his dreams complicate the matter.
I did not care for the change in Banks’ character toward the end, but I was smitten with the book up to that point.
(This, granted, coming from a genuine fan of all books long & boring.)A detective's life should certainly include many peaks, scenes of action, excitement aplenty.
Kazuo Ishiguro decides to keep all this away though, all the details that would make the narrative a splendid one, and instead focuses on the case of the detective's family, gone missing for years & years.
Yes, the novel is elegant, unpredictable, but I would venture to guess that there are way more Victorian, more zany, &, yes, less lengthy books out there from which to choose.
It certainly doesn't need to have the maestro Kazuo Ishiguro attached.
But now I guess that's just a how the author writes, in a formal and almost stilted voice.The ending of this book irritated me to no end and I actually had to go back through the story to see if I missed something--was the narrator seriously retarded (and I'm not trying to use that word in a disparaging way, but a descriptive way).
Why did these people aid the narrator's belief that he would find his parents still sitting in a house in the middle of war torn China?
In the end I just hated the narrator and all the stupid people around him who didn't give him slap him upside the head.
The plot could be deceiving: the prose is easy to read and at times uneventful (translation: boring) but if you read between the lines or if you persist up to the end of the book, you would know that there are reasons for the boring first half.However, unlike my favorite books of Ishiguro, Remains and Never Let Me Go, this book has many loose ends that Ishiguro left hanging similar to what he did in Pale View.
I began with A Pale View of the Hills (GR Avg. 3.68 with 3,507 ratings) and I thought it was almost the same as Remains and Ishiguro did not know how to end his story.
Through so much of the novel I kept asking myself why he could not see the illogical conclusions he was drawing, but of course that is what this novel is about, his inability to leave his childhood behind him and his biased view of the events that lead up to the loss of his parents.Christopher Banks is a detective, but this is not a detective story.
...for those like us, our fate is to face the world as orphans, chasing through long years the shadows of vanished parents.
Now that it is clear that this book is no detective fiction, I'll venture to say that it was more of a man's self realization, his coming to terms with life.
Christopher Banks, a celebrated detective is haunted by the disappearance of his parents when he was a child.
His quest of finding the truth is the wake up call of his life as he finally understands that he had lived in a delusion.The story is presented by the protagonist Christopher Banks himself in a series of memories as he revisit the events of his life.
As an adult, Banks intends to return to Shanghai, solves the disappearance, and even perhaps have his parents restored to him.As an abstract exploration of the nature of both history and memory, When We Were Orphans is an entirely worthwhile investigation, but my favourite conceit of Ishiguro's here was something far less integral (perhaps) to the story's primary goal.
While Ishiguro keeps us at arm's length from such unseemly designs (for they are not among his purposes in this tale), he takes special care to continuously draw our attention to the fact of such crimes and cases, perhaps foreshadowing the fact that it is the effect of the circumstance rather than the solution that truly matters in the end.
The problem is that in the end, many of the plot's events just don't seem to hang together properly - Christopher's childhood obsession with finding his parents leading to him pursuing a career as a detective and ultimately becoming a key figure in events in Shanghai later in life; his 'relationship' with Sarah, which seems to develop very oddly; his ridiculous conviction that he will discover his parents alive and well, not to mention the fact that nobody around him contradicts this belief.
When We Were Orphans is an impressive and unforgettable mystery novel, taking readers on a journey to reunite a man with his missing parent.

The stilted fussy style of narrative also sounds like a satire of British writers: all of these incredibly long introductions and explanations, to wit: "I did not always regard it so; in fact, I had more or less forgotten it altogether when a few years ago, quite by chance, something happened which caused me not only to recall it again, but to appreciate for the first time the deeper implications of what I had witnessed that day." zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzBut the real sin of this book is that the protagonist is a selfish boring lunatic.
One extraordinary, oneiric scene sees him wandering by night through the devastated slumland war zone.Something I like about the reviews by Hensher and Gorra (links to which I’ll copy at the end of this) is that they focus on Ishiguro’s style and technique, which are undoubtedly pivotal to the distinctiveness and power of his novels, far more than elements such as character, plot, or setting.
Christopher Banks overcomes a tragic childhood, it seems, to become the preeiminent detective in Great Britain.
Living in Shanghai, Christopher (dubbed Puffin by the adults in his life) and Akira played at all kinds of fantasies.
At Akira's prompting, the two begin to play at solving the mystery of Mr. Banks' disappearance.
The book is typical of the Ishiguro style, with its frequent flashbacks, simple language, and fascinating first person narrator.
These are great books to have discussions about, and I look forward to the chance to discuss "When We Were Orphans" with someone.
It is a superb, mysterious book that I recommend very highly.
Since we are never sure how much we can believe our narrator, it is difficult to know how to feel.
I wanted either a more believable story with fewer, far fewer, coincidences.
But it is unclear that the man at the end of the book differs in any substantial way from the boy at the beginning--a boy too old to seem like an authentic boy, and a man too young to seem like a n authentic man.
It is only the quality of the writing and the very evocative use of detail that made me want to keep reading, and that led to the three stars.
Eh, this isn't great. I enjoyed maybe the first 50ish pages but once the plot actually begins it just becomes a mess. It gets the extra star because I enjoyed those 50 pages. Even Ishiguro himself thinks this is a weak novel. It's overall poor.
After muttering grumpily to myself that Ishiguro surely can't have written TWO books in which someone called Christopher returns to Shanghai where his parents had mysteriously disappeared I had to concede that no, it was the selfsame one that I have a vague memory of reading while ill in bed?
The hints of a mismatch between his and others' view of the world were too heavy handed, too clangingly obvious, duh.
His view of himself and his place in history, in English society, in the world is radically at odds with reality.But then....
Ishiguro is quite the opposite of heavy-handed normally.
Πρώτη απόπειρα να διαβάσω τον φετινό νικητή του Νόμπελ λογοτεχνίας, γι' αυτό και επέλεξα ένα από τα παλαιότερα έργα του. Απόλαυσα τον τρόπο γραφής και την ίδια την ιστορία ιδιαίτερα. Μια ιστορία που μιλά για την παιδική ηλικία, τη λήθη, την αγάπη για την οικογένεια.
...عالم " كازو إيشيجورو" عالم خاص وكأنني ولجت عالماً تتناثرعلى أرضه الصلبة شظايا من الزجاج فما كان م
که البته و صد البته من با بخش نوستالژیش خیلی بیشتر حال کردم و به نظرم نویسنده هم بهتر تونسته بود حسش را بسازه و منتقل کنه.
یعنی این نویسنده به هر حال جنایی نویس نیست.بهترین و به یادماندنی ترین فصلش همون فصلی هست که راوی به یاد میاره چطور در دوره کودکیش یکی از اعضای باند تبهکار میاد و خیلی با مهربانی دستش را میگیره تا ببره براش یه هدیه بخره.
خیلی عالیهبه نظرم نوبل با این انتخابش آبروداری کرد امروز هرچند هنوز فکر میکنم انتخاب باب دیلن نشون داد نمیشه زیاد دیگه نوبل را جدی گرفت
ويتيم حالي.بطل الرواية يقوم باسترجاع أحداث حياته كاملة منذ طفولته وحتى الشيخوخة، متوجسًا، ومتشككًا، من، وفي، الصيغة الرسمية التي تضعها عقولنا عن حيواتنا وعلاقاتنا مع البشر.هل كنت محتقرًا؟ هل كنت وحيدًا ومنبوذًا، هل كنت كما يدعي الناس؟هل كان يتم التنمر علي، أم أني كنت متنمرًا؟هكذا يتساءل بانكس.يترك إيشيجورو للذاكرة والسرد الأمر بالحكم.الرواية تدور حول أسرة تعيش في عصر حرب متقلب تتقاسمه الدول والحكومات والمنظمات السرية، وتعتاش من خلال الحروب على إنماء مصالحها.
وتبدأ القصة.تنتمي الرواية بشكل ما، للأدب البوليسي، وهذا هو عيبها بقدر ما هو ميزتها.

At first we are in similar territory to The Remains of the Day, in 1920s London, where we find the narrator as a young man making a name for himself as a detective, who has come to England from Shanghai after his parents disappeared.
Then we move to Shanghai in 1937, where things gradually get messier and more surreal and develop into a Kafkaesque thrillerish nightmare set in a war zone as the narrator tries to resolve the story of his parents.
This section was reminiscent of The Unconsoled, but without the repetition and the longueurs that made that book a difficult read.
It could get 4 stars specially for last 50 pages but some parts of book were not believable enough.
English boy Christopher Banks lives in the foreigners’ compound in Shanghai shortly after 1900; what pays for this splendor is Banks’ father’s position with Morganbrook and Byatt, which traffics in opium, which pains Banks’ mother to the point that she joins an anti-opium crusade.
Or is she tied in with the mystery that Banks is trying to solve?A novel that relies heavily on memory, When We Were Orphans shifts between Banks’ memories of his childhood and his current steps to solve his parents’ disappearance.
A brilliant novel, as good for me as the Remains of the Day. Wonderful characterisation, an interesting historical setting and brilliant writing. I highly recommend!
-After the Kafkaesque world of The Unconsoled, Ishiguro's next book finds him retreating to a midway point between that brilliantly disorienting behomoth and the controlled narrative circumlocutions of Remains of the Day.
-Once the story shifts to Shanghai, there are a number of brilliant and eerie set pieces, as well some startling and well-handled plot twists.
-Toward the end, a number of dialogue scenes explicitly and awkwardly spell out the themes of the book and the shortfalls of the narrator.
-Since the book is playing off the tropes of the detective story, Ishiguro employs the genre convention of having a character at the end explain everything that's been happening behind the scenes.
Maybe not his best work, but reading his prose is always a treat, it's smooth like velvet.Then, I loved the characters, Mr. Banks, the haunted detective searching for his lost parents in Shangai (he is a bit lost and weak sometimes, okay I admit it), but then, Sarah Hemmings !
The perfect character for a gangsterish plot like this one.
Of course, the book has its own flaws.
Loved this sentence when talking to Akira:" 'Those were splendid days', I said.
'We didn't know it then, of course, just how splendid they were.
The second half seems to descend almost into absurdity in comparison -- suddenly Christopher comes to seem a lot more important, if everything he's saying is true, and yet there's something very childish about his mission.Ultimately, Ishiguro is not, for example, Iain Banks, so the narration continues in the same sedate vein, and the end of the novel is almost tender.
Apart from a couple of chapters in the second half of the book, this isn't a story where major things happen, and our narrator is not the key player he wants to believe he is.I really enjoyed it, I have to say.
I enjoy Ishiguro's skill with his narrators, and his style is just perfect to keep me reading.
Onvan : When We Were Orphans - Nevisande : Kazuo Ishiguro - ISBN : 571225403 - ISBN13 : 9780571225408 - Dar 320 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2000
Christopher, il protagonista ricorda e racconta avvenimenti appena trascorsi e partendo da questi apre ampie finestre su un passato più remoto.
Le prime pagine hanno un andamento lento, l’ambientazione è la società stanca, appesantita e avviata al tramonto dopo la Grande Guerra, società che costituisce il terreno fertile nel quale Christopher e altri giovanotti emergenti affondano unghie e denti e conquistano il loro spazio vitale.Le pagine finali, nella Shanghai degli anni trenta, di grande interesse anche per il contesto storico, sono concitate e affannose come un incubo, un’allucinazione al termine dalla quale ci si sente spossati, svuotati e attoniti.
This leads to the second major part of the novel when Banks returns to Shanghai, many years later, to attempt to resolve the case and find his parents.It is here that things start to take a turn towards the bizarre.
The plot is fairly preposterous (why would anyone assume his disappeared parents would be in exactly the same place so many years later, for example?), but I think that may also be deliberate.
In later parts of the book, it isn’t quite clear (at least, not to me) whether Banks is driven by his mission to find his parents or is attempting to avoid a global crisis.
This book is marked with an emphasis on memory, childhood, construction of reality and is more than what one can define as a detective story.
The following chapters take us back to his childhood, to his memories of his parents, friends, and experiences in China.
Also, it felt a bit absurd for a "renowned" detective to think and believe that his parents would have been kept in the same house that they first were taken captive 20 years ago (and also where there is battlefront between Japanese and Chinese forces).
Este regresso marca uma viragem na actuação de Christopher que se torna errática e bizarra, e no tom da narrativa, que se torna detectivesco mas de uma forma algo surreal.
Não estou certa de ter entendido o que autor pretende transmitir com o final que forjou.
Li que Ishiguro admitiu que, dos seus livros, este é aquele que menos prefere.
Eu não me queixo e, ao terceiro livro - depois de Os Despojos do Dia (5*) e de Nunca me Deixes (4*) -, estou fã deste autor, da sua escrita envolvente e da forma como domina e manipula a arte narrativa.
Dua kali gw baca Ishiguro, hal-hal semacam itu selalu terjadi, pun di dalam novel ini.Batang atau tema utama buku ini adalah pencarian Christopher Banks atas kedua orangtuanya yg hilang diculik di Shanghai sekitar 18 tahun yg lalu.
Misalnya, saat Christopher secara tidak sengaja melihat sosok Akira dengan segitu gampangnya di tengah kota Shanghai setelah 18 tahun berlalu, namun bukannya dikejar dan dihampiri malah ditinggal begitu aja dengan harapan "Ah, tar juga ketemu lagi.." (masuk akal sih, tapi gimanaaa gitu).
Lalu keyakinan (nggak masuk akal) bahwa kedua orangtuanya masih hidup setelah disekap bertahun-tahun di sebuah rumah yg bahkan oleh polisi Shanghai aja gak bisa dimasukin.
This is my second book by Kazuo Ishiguro (The first being Never Let Me Go) Once again, I love his writing style and his incredibly complex and flawed characters.
Protagonist Christopher Banks is a wonderfully flawed and curious man who was orphaned as a child when both of his parents mysteriously disappeared.
The ending Ishiguro provided did answer the basic questions in the novel, but left so many others unaddressed.
(view spoiler)[ basically, I believed Christopher Banks was becoming more and more disillusioned and we would see that idea supported by the end.
Wonderful novel set in Shanghai between the world wars. Kind of got lost in the shuffle amidst the acknowledged classic The Remains of the Day, the great psycho monolith The Unconsoled, and the mildly overrated science fiction Never Let Me Go. Ishiguro is the contemporary master of the unreliable narrator and this is his darkest and most relevant novel.
3.5/5 Here, in other words, at the heart of the maelstrom threatening to suck in the whole of the civilised world, is a pathetic conspiracy of denial; a denial of responsiblity which as turned in on itself and gone sour, manifesting itself in the sort of pompous defensiveness I have encountered so often. Endings are horribly difficult. The main plot has twenty loose ends, the wrong people are killed off, no one knows what happened to the huge conspiracy hinted at for the last 200 pages, and what
Nazism, Fascism, England, Japan, health, youth: I didn't have the tools to pick up on it when I first read The Remains of the Day (I'm not even sure if that was my first one, to tell you the truth), but now that I do, I can pick out exactly where Ishiguro succeeded and failed in the arena of my tastes with this particular work.
É Ishiguro sim senhor, mas, caramba!, fiquei com a sensação que não percebi grande coisa da história.Sinceramente, só não dou apenas uma estrela por causa da revelação a caminho do final.
De repente um certo acontecimento no passado da nossa personagem fica claro; para mim um dos poucos momentos de leitura em que não estive com vontade de fechar os olhos e dormir uma soneca.Porque, de resto, esta história é uma valente seca.
A verdade é que o homem chega ali aos vinte e muitos, trinta e qualquer coisa talvez, anos a ver o Mundo tal como o via quando era criança.
Ishiguro'nun tuhaf bir tarzı, alışkanlığı var ve Ishigruo romanlarında sürekli karşılaştığımız bir durum: Yazar, romanlarında insanların aklının içine girdiği için, onların gerçekliğini gösteriyor bize ve bunu hafıza yoluyla yapıyor, ama aynı zamanda gerçekliği, "aslında olanı" da gösteriyor.
Ama ilerleyen sayfalarda Christopher'ın çocukluk arkadaşları ile karşılaşmalarını görüyoruz ve dediği gibi normal biri olmadığını, içine kapanık, mutsuz, tuhaf biri anlıyoruz.
Christopher ise öksüzlüğünü çok iyi bir dedektif olarak bastırmaya çalışıyor.
Bu iyi bir şey mi, değil mi tartışılır ama Ishiguro kesinlikle tarz sahibi bir yazar.
Belki çocukluk anıları için bunu söyleyebiliriz, ama kitabın içinde çok az yer tutuyor.
4,5 το αγαπημένο μου από αυτόν τον συγγραφέα
When We Were Orphans by Kazuo IshiguroTo live a life that counts, to accomplish what others have been unable to manage.
Our protagonist, Christopher Banks, lives his first 9 years in a kind of golden glow.
When both parents, over the course of a few months, disappear from the International Settlement in Shanghai he is returned to England.
Do they still live?
And reasons for either helping or hindering Christopher's search.Ishiguro entwines the political situation of pre-war Shanghai with Christopher's search, giving it a surreal air that shows the reader, at least the fallout of that time.
Friends become foes, and enemies are not what they seem.Another enigmatic entry by Ishiguro.
