https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/626685.Selected_Poems


When in 1941 the Nazis started bombing Moscow, Marina Tsvetaeva and her son were evacuated to Yelabuga, a town in the Tatar Soviet Socialist Republic (now Tatarstan).She desperately sought work and even applied for a dishwashing position but was refused.
Tsvetaeva is the unique case in which the paramount spiritual experience of an epoch (for us, the sense of ambivalence, of contradictoriness in the nature of human existence) served not as the object of expression but as its means, by which it was transformed into the material of art." As a lyrical poet, her passion and daring linguistic experimentation mark her striking chronicler of her times and the depths of the human condition.
List of CollaboratorsIntroduction--I know the truth--What is this gypsy passion for separation--We s
First, the co-translator Angela Livingstone (who did about half of the literal translations that Elaine Feinstein turned into English verse) tells you:Marina Tsvetaeva’s [voice] is particularly difficult to capture, both because her consistent adherence to rhyme and metrical regularity would, if copied into English poems, probably enfeeble them, and because so many of the linguistic devices which she powerfully exploits (such as ellipsis, changes of word order, the throwing into relief of inflectional endings) are simply not available in English.On the whole, the English versions are consciously less emphatic, less loudly-spoken, less violent, often less jolting and disturbing than the Russian originals.Then the original Russian must be pretty wild.
To sep arate!It is insane unnaturala sound to burst the eardrums, and spread outfar beyond the limits of longing itself.Separation--the word is not in the Russian language.
her poems feel as if she is drawing a straight line from her guts to your heart. it's almost too much, and i found myself physically buckling at points, snapping the book shut to save myself from the fire. Tsvetaeva brings all of my favorite dinner guests together: unyielding authorial voice, raw honesty and unflinching self-reflection, a keen eye for that porous gauze between the self and the other, she reads as one of the last honest witnesses of human history. i only wish i could read the original russian.
Of the great 'silver age' poets (Akhmatova, Mandelstam, Pasternak, Blok, Mayakovsky...) I find myself returning more and more to Tsvetaeva--the expansive emotion is most like Mayakovsky's--explosive--but the she has the control and compressed power of an Akhmatova.
Not for anyone else to read, but just to understand the actual words, the compression, the punch of brilliant rhymes, the very music of them.
Even if you don't understand a word, check out:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E1orui...which are six or seven poems read by this wonderful girl with a high light voice, reading it just as it should be read, no sturm und drang (too easy to go over the top with this stuff), and another girl, with a graver voice, also exactly the right delivery, doing other poemshttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FC_gT8...
Her poetry is like being stabbed while she gently strokes your face and tells you she loves you.
And yet incredible beauty, wonder and immense love.
You won't be the same after reading her.
I read "Where does this tenderness come from" and the I that I was became someone else.
Emily Dickinson wrote "If I feel physically as if the top of my head were taken off, I know that is poetry.", and that's how I felt.
That's how Tsvetaeva makes me feel.
It saddens me greatly that I only have translations of her work, because I don't (yet?) know Russian.
Your name is a -- bird in my handa piece of -- ice on the tongueone single movement of the lips.Your name is: five signs,a ball caught in flight, a silver bell in the moutha stone, cast in a quiet pool makes the splash of your name, and the sound is the clatter ofnight hooves, loud as a thunderclapor it speaks straight into my forehead,shrill as the click of a cocked gun.Your name -- how impossible, itis a kiss on the eyes onmotionless eyelashes, chill and sweet.Your name is a kiss of snowa gulp of icy spring water, blueas a dove.
McDuff's rhymed translation works best when the lines, whether there is actual enjambment or not, are constructed so that emphasis does not fall on the end of the line if the poem is spoken naturally as sentences, making the rhyme elegant, subtle and unobtrusive, and that's especially the case for poems with shorter lines.
McDuff's introduction to this edition was well worth reading, for the biographical detail, the cultural context and how these relate to the poems.Various insights from it I appreciated:On controversial aspects of Tsvetaeva's life:Tsvetayeva’s younger daughter, Irina, was less fortunate: weak and sickly, she developed slowly and poorly, and could hardly walk by the time she was three.
The Bloodaxe book I'm holding is translated by David McDuff, and it's awful.
I know the temptation clever translators feel to stretch their chops and replicate rhyme in English.
They shouldn't use it for Dante, they shouldn't use it for Baudelaire, and they should be banned absolutely from using it on any poet who wrote in the 20th century, especially one like Tsvetaeva who's known for her dense viruosto experiments with sound.
I doubt it's this that makes Tsvetaeva one of the most valued Russian poets of the last century, and if it is, McDuff fails to explain why with industrial-grade versifying like his.
It's not that I have a particular dislike for it, more that I tend to be swayed by context and the sense of progression found in novels.
As thats the case, thematic poetry books, absent from any real personal context irk me a bit.
Tsvetaevna wasn't somebody I was familiar with when I began reading.
It turns out that lack of context didn't in any way hamper the enjoyment of her poems.
Progressing through the book, I felt I began to comprehend how her mindset and emotional state developed as she aged.
Marina Tsvetaevna was obviously an individual that suffered, and her poems speak volumes to this effect.
No he leído esta antología sino una pequeña selección que encontré en pdf por la red.
El documento contiene una breve biografía de Marina Tsvetaeva y los siguientes poemas: El poeta, Insinuarse, Yo te reconquisto, A Ajmatova, A Alia, A Boris Pasternak, A Rainer María Rilke, A ti, dentro de un siglo, Bendigo la labor nuestra de cada día, Comediante 4, En la frente besar-penas borrar..., Es sencilla mi ropa..., Insomnio 2, Insomnio 10, Insomnio 11, Libertad salvaje, Magdalena, Mis versos, escritos tan temprano..., Nostalgia de la patria: ¡Qué fastidio!..., Poema del fin, Psique, Regreso del líder, Se ha ido.
Ya no como..., Tu alma y la mía son gemelas...y Versos a Blok.Poesía que te lleva, que te sacude y que te emociona.Ganas inmensas de salir corriendo a la librería para comprar todo lo que escribió esta mujer.
Perhaps this is why I identify more with Tsvetaeva than with Akhmatova; her poems about longing for love are that much more real...I was first drawn to Tsvetaeva because she seemed to share my fascination with Penthesilea and Lilith, two of the most interesting female characters in Greek mythology and Judeo-Christian mythology, respectively: two strong, fierce, exotic, somewhat-superhuman females who were spurned and/or martyred by their soulmates (Achilles and Adam) in order to make room for more conventional wives (Deidamia and Eve).
Tsvetaeva is one tough nut to crack. Her poetry has this searingly personal intensity. Like you're with her in a hermetically sealed room watching her stab wildly out at the dark with a knife. I could never figure out who or what she's trying to confront, her absentee husband? an affair? the stalinist purges? having to put her daughter in an orphanage because she couldn't afford to feed her? She has so much to be burned up and consumed by emotionally. Maybe she's just railing against life itself. It certainly dealt her a shitty shitty hand.
Your lipshave gone dry for ever.Your drinking is difficult, your step heavy.Every passer-by hurries away from you.Was it with fingers like yours the Rogozhinclutched the garden knife?And the eyes, they eyes in your face!Two circles of charcoal, year-old circles!Surely when you were still young your girllured you into a joyless house.Far away - in the night - over asphalt - a cane.Doors - swing open into - night - under beating wind.Come in!
6-7* * *Muse of lament, you are the most beautiful ofall muses, a crazy emanation of white night:and you have sent a black snow storm over all Russia.We are pierced with the arrows of your criesso that we shy like horses at the muffledmany times uttered pledge - Ah!
It takes time to get acquainted -- especially if the poet writes in another language, one you don't know, such as Russian.
Marina Tsvetaeva hits me between the eyes, for her intensity of feeling, even when seen through the cool filter of the English language.
If I feel physically as if the top of my head were taken off, I know that is poetry.
These are the only ways I know it.
Is there any other way?I am in the strange position of having been strongly affected, but not knowing exactly in what way.
I am still at the beginning -- but I know I am on the right track.
One of my favorite poems from the collection:On Parting Teasing and tempting and playing We loved like children, us both But somebody, hiding a smile, Set up the ungentle nets - And here we are at the harbor, Not seeing the wished-for abodes, But knowing that I will be yours In the heart, without words, until death.
You told me of all things - so early!
In our hearts A wound is eternal, a silent Question exists in our eyes, The desert on earth is so endless, The heaven, so high, has no stars, Revealed is the tender secret, And frost rules for centuries.
Shutters have closed, On all things descending is night...
I love you, one ghostly-eternal, And only you - and always!
تزفيتيفا شاعرة حساسة جدا بالعالم حولها ، يمكنها تحويل أشياء بسيطة وغير مهمة إلى مقاطع جميلة ، خيالها يتسع مسافات بعيدة، مهمومة بالانتظار و الحب باللون الاحمر والقبلات

What's the Russian for "so much better than David McDuff's rhyming translations I blew kvass out my nostrils with gleeful surprise while reading these?" Hooray for a translator who sees that Tsvetaeva's "consistent adherence to rhyme and to metrical regularity would, if copied in the English poems, probably enfeeble them," and whose worst sin is the venial one of setting the poems to standard plainspoken translatorese. Them's the pitfalls of the trans biz, as Feinstein's the first to acknowledge--enough of Tsvetaeva comes through all the same to make the dancer totally worth this dance.
Beautiful Мне нравится, что вы больны не мной,Мне нравится, что я больна не вами,Что никогда тяжелый шар земнойНе уплывет под нашими ногами.Мне нравится, что можно быть смешной -Распущенной - и не играть словами,И не краснеть удушливой волной,Слегка соприкоснувшись рукавами.Мне нравится еще, что вы при мнеСпокойно обнимаете другую,Не прочите мне в адовом огнеГореть за то, что я не вас целую.Что имя нежное мое, мой нежный, неУпоминаете ни днем, ни ночью - всуе...Что никогда в церковной тишинеНе пропоют над нами: аллилуйя!Спасибо вам и сердцем и рукойЗа то, что вы меня - не зная сами!
-Так любите: за мой ночной покой,За редкость встреч закатными часами,За наши не-гулянья под луной,За солнце, не у нас над головами,-За то, что вы больны - увы!
- не вами!

I fell in love with Tsvetajeva (the Finnish spelling) years ago while reading a thick poetry anthology. When I saw this collection in a used books store in Paris, I had to have it. These words hold such beauty and meaning, so many different feelings. She makes me feel like all exceptional poets: she knows all my secrets.
Born into a well-to-do but very unstable family, and coming of age just as the Russian revolution came to fruition, married to a man who was first a white Russian officer and later a Soviet spy, friends with Red and White Russians and distrusted by both sides because of it, Marina Tsvetaeva had a very tumultuous life.This omnipresent feeling of pain in Tsvetaeva's life is inescapable in her poetry.
Tsvetaeva's early poetry from the pre-Revolutionary years, when she was living a very comfortable life, is quite gnomic.
"Poems for Blok", written over the course of many years, is a reverential peon to a fellow poet and friend whom Tsvetaeva held in almost divine regard.
Connection was always rare but intense for Tsvetaeva and one senses in "Poem of the End" that she is marking the very death of love as a possibility in her life.
The descriptive nature of her poems continues to increase with the years.
Even though I haven't seen anyone else say so, it seems obvious to me that she is part-confessionalist a poet because if you're going to read her, I would recommend that you read up some on her life for background because it helps, to know what she is referencing, and a lot of her poems are about very personal things e.g. that Poem of the End is about the end of a love affair she had with a soldier.
Poems about the revolution or war interested me as well and I was glad I have some background knowledge of it.
Lots of poems reference being a poet or creating poetry and Marina is driven to this vocation above anything else.
In our heartsA wound is eternal, a silentQuestion exists in our eyes,The desert on earth is so endless,The heaven, so high, has no stars,Revealed is the tender secret,And frost rules for centuries.I will talk to shades!
Shutters have closed,On all things descending is night...I love you, one ghostly-eternal,And only you - and always!I first became acquainted with Marina Tsvetaeva's poetry a few years ago through a dear friend who had recently been to Russia and wouldn't stop talking about Marina Tsvetaeva.
"Poem of the Mountain" & "Poem of the End" in one pdfIt's been a long while since I've read poems that refresh me, but as I started this, it felt like every poem-of-the-day by Poets.org was also new, exciting, refreshing, I feel happy about this.I've been crossing the Michigan Avenue Bridge on Wednesdays at night for the past month, looking at the river, thinking of how romantic it feels but also how I would not even try to describe it b/c it's been described countless times before, and then Tsvetaeva writes:Let us wait by the river thatrinses the coloured beads of street-lights:I shall take you as far as the squarethat has witnessed adolescent Tsars.Wow. Coloured beads.
Even if you don't understand a word, check out:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E1orui...which are six or seven poems read by this wonderful girl with a high light voice, and another girl, with a graver voice, also exactly the right delivery, doing other poemshttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FC_gT8...The 'song' of this incredible poet comes out clearly.
I love these tiny volumes of Russian poetry I bought in Petersburg at Dom Kniga (house of books), they're suprisingly long (350 pages), printed on very thin paper, so have most of the poems, it does a lot better than the selected works in English on this count.
