https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7015635-food-rules
Whether at the supermarket or an all-you-can-eat buffet, this is the perfect guide for anyone who ever wondered, "What should I eat?"You can either trust your instinct and eat what your body demands, or read a book like this and enjoy the thoughts on nutrition, as expressed by the author.
You can also find all the scientists mentioned in it on Youtube.)Now bear in mind that it is the doctors who we so desperately want to believe, who have the most comfortable lifestyles, and the broadest choices of food and medicines, who don't make it to 60 - average!GRAND FINALE: DESSERTAfter reading Food Rules: An Eater's Manual you can dream of going back to your roots, or get on with modern living and change your image.Between THEN and NOW, humans have become taller, live longer and become more attractive.
A tiny book—I read it in the span of the bus ride downtown to my mother’s house.
I wouldn’t pay the $11.00 price for this book, but it was fun to get from the library and read.Some of my favorite rules:Avoid foods you see advertised on televisionEat only foods that have been cooked by humansIt’s not food if it arrived through the window of your carIt’s not food if it’s called the same thing in every language.
Let's get real, they are probably much too busy at "Loves" getting deep-fried livers and gizzards to read this book.There were a couple of revealing parts where I was like "billions of stomach neurons--in the stomach--that make you (me!) sick, whawhaaaaat?" or the very sad for me opinion of Pollan's that people should just blanket NOT eat fake meat products.
Plenty of you, I betcha.I have also always really liked this simple bit of dietary advice which Pollan restates, that you should always remember to "Eat Your Colors." This rule-of-thumb always brings to mind Sophie Calle's "Chromatic Diet" experiment, where she restricted herself to monochromatic meals which changed with the day of the week.
I read this super short book at lunch, upon the recommendation of a gorgeous 72 year old woman who claimed to be married to "the hottest 80 year old you've ever seen." Granted, I read it while eating ramen, but I <3 Michael Pollan and the IDEA of eating well.
It’s gotten to the point where we don’t see ‘foods’ but instead look right through them to the nutrients (good and bad) they contain, and of course to the calories – all these invisible qualities in our food that, properly understood, supposedly hold the secret to eating well.”So well put.I soon learned too that the author’s golden rule consisted of seven words: “Eat food.
Anyway, I was at the library picking up some holds there and saw this on some table and I took it home, because this version is illustrated by Maira Kalman, whose work I love.
people like me who read books by Michael Pollan, I suspect!
Though maybe Maira Kalman will draw a few people in, who knows.
But the best thing about this edition is that it is illustrated by the wonderful Maira Kalman.
باری اینان به دستِ خود و آگاهانه به نبرد با خویش پرداختند و هرچه که در کف داشتند به بادِ فنا و نابودی سپردند(آسوده باد روان شانِ در دوزخ) و هیچ نیاموختند که راه هایی هم برای در نکبت نزیستن برای شان مهیا بود.
خوشبختانه این نوع از نسلِ غیر بشر تمامن نابوده شده است و حالا این سرزمین شوره زاری بسیار مفرح و چشم نواز برای آنانی ست که علاقمند به مطالعه ی حماقت های جمعی و ابدی ی نسل ها هستند1397/06/22
My rating is based on a combination of a)the book's content; and b)the book's usefulness to me.
The usefulness is what brings it to a higher rating.
Yes, hanging my head in shame, I admit to having eaten licorice as a meal.:( I really like the rule about "you can eat as much junk food as you want, as long as you prepare it yourself." He points out that you wouldn't eat french fries very often if you had to scrub, peel, slice, and fry the potatoes yourself, and then clean up the mess.
What a delightful read!
The art was absolutely charming and was completely in keeping with the light, upbeat, positive approach that the author followed.
Some of the rules were fairly obvious, but who doesn't need a little reminder now and then!
Other rules were more introspective such as #65 Give Some Thought to Where Your Food Comes From.
The corollary of this notion is to be grateful for your food.
The author notes a Zen blessing: "This meal is the labor of countless beings.
This was a highly enjoyable read and one that I'll return to again and again.

Read years ago. Short and to the point.
أول كتاب أقرؤه في هذا الباب، يدور حول ماذا وكيف نأكل؟الكتاب بسيط للغاية، وهو يلخص قراءات وأبحاث الكاتب في مجموعة قواعد واضحة ومباشرة يمكن تطبيقها على الفورليس هدف الكتاب بناء الوعي حول أهمية الالتزام بما جاء به من نصائح، أو حول أهمية أن نكون على دراية بما نأكله وأثره على أجسادنا وحياتنا، لذا إن لم تكن الأمور واضحة لدى القارئ فقد لا يشعر بأهمية تلك النصائح أو قد لا يؤخذها على محمل الجدّ.الرسالة الجوهرية: تجنّب تناول الأطعمة المُعالجة، أي "الاختراعات الحديثة" القابلة للأكل و التي صُنعت بالمعامل كي يدمن المستهلكون على شرائهاواستبدلها بكل ما تذخر به الطبيعة من نباتات، حبوب، ومنتجات طبيعية.كيف تعرف الطعام المعالج؟ ما هي مؤشرات أنه اختراع قابل للأكل وليس طعامًا؟ كيف تتناول طعامك بطريقة تزيد من فاعليته؟الكتاب يجيب عن هذه الأسئلة.بعض النصائح كانت تحتاج لتفصيل وشرح أكثر، مثل قوله "ازرع حديقة خضروات إذا توافرت لديك مساحة"فاعلية النصيحة ترتبط بالظروف المحيطة بها.
This book is an "abridged" version of Pollan's book "In Defense of Food" and gives excellent advice about what to eat and not to eat as far as being natural and healthy.
He advises that if it comes through a car window, it's not food.
If your food is made in a plant rather than coming from a plant, you shouldn't eat it.
He mentions "edible food-like substances" which is very reminisent of another book I've read in the last couple of years called "The Twinkie Deconstructed." Most of the book is common sense but we could certainly use the reminders.
or read "In Defense of Food."
I read this (before reading all the reviews here which outlined how short it is, how recycled the material was, &c &c) and was so dissatisfied I returned the Kindle book to Amazon for a refund. Shame on you, Pollan. Shame on you, publishing industry for publishing such a tiny (and expensive) "book." It was like a cross between calendar notes and a blog post. Recommended to no one.
A deceptively simple book of "food rules" which are both thought provoking and amusing-don't eat food y our grandmother wouldn't recognize, don't buy food advertised on TV, don't buy food that has to advertise that it's healthy. Not militant, the suggestion is to try making changes in each section. The illustrations by Maira Kalman surely enhance the book. Delightful
This morning, instead of chowing down on a big bowl of Cinnamon Toast Crunch or Frosted Flakes like I normally do, I reached into the way back of my refrigerator and found a container of greek yogurt.
This morning, before hauling myself out of bed, I read Michael Pollan's short, sweet Food Rules, which is basically a distillation of his two other food-related books, The Omnivore's Dilemma and In Defense of Food (in fact, I think pretty much everything in Food Rules can also be found in In Defense of Food, although in a less compact format).
The huge number of books and articles written on nutrition, diets and health would suggest achieving a healthy lifestyle is difficult and complex. It’s not. Indeed Michael Pollan has simplified it into seven words… Eat food. Not too much. Mostly plants. What could be simpler?You still want more information and insight? Then get Food Rules: An Eater's Manual, a book which can be read in under an hour and expands upon the wisdom of the three simple statements above through 64 rules sorted into the
Not too muchHere are some examples:"Don’t eat anything your great grandmother wouldn’t recognise as food""Avoid food products that make health claims"“Eat all the junk food you want so long as you cook it yourself”"Leave something on your plate""Break the rules once in a while”Ultimately whilst we all instinctively know this stuff it’s good to be reminded of it from time to time.
Books like Food Rules: An Eater's Manual, which avoid jargon and are simple to read, are a helpful way of remembering the simple “rules" of a healthy lifestyle.
A very concise little book about what's become of our food and what we really should eat.
The book can be boiled down to seven words and three sections: "Eat food.
Rules are mostly common sense, but they are a good reminder to pay attention to the food we eat and what's been done to it.
It's much more helpful than the complicated recommendations about health food and all the chatter about eating "this" and not "that".
Pollan's easy to read approach to writing about food makes me want to check out his other books.
. Michael Pollan has written a book of rules about eating, with brief text elaborating the statements.
However, it turns out to be a pretty interesting book.In his introductory comments, the author notes a few undeniable truths--Western diets (e.g., processed foods and meats, lots of fat and sugar, etc.) lead to lots of health problems; traditional diets tend to be healthier than the so-called Western diet; when one leaves the Western diet, one tends to get healthier.
."Examples?"Avoid food products containing ingredients that a third-grader cannot pronounce" (Page 17).
"Eat some foods that have been predigested by bacteria or fungi" (Page 73).
As an attempt to lose weight through a rather intensive workout regimen and counting calories has not gone as well as hoped, I decided it was time to start looking more at what I am eating, as opposed to monitoring how much.
The number one question for me was whether they had to count their calories while eating clean.
So I began doing research and stumbled across this book of quick and easy rules for better eating.
This book is a distillation of the science Pollan learned about in  In Defense of Food: An Eater's Manifesto, which I probably should have read first.
Derivative.Save yourself some time and go to the source ::The Anatomy of Melancholyor, for you fast-paced cyber=junkies, an html all your own!http://www.themillions.com/2014/11/th...
The entire book in 7 words: 'Eat food. Mostly plants. Not so much.' which is so simply laid down in some 64 rules like 'Don't eat anything your grandmother wouldn't recognize as food.' Short. Simple. Humorous. However, this is not much useful for someone with a typical Indian diet which generally doesn't include a lot of unhealthy edible food like substances which mostly makes up for an American meal. Still worth a read.
As much as I love food, though, I am going to try these rules out.
Yippee!)Spend as much time enjoying the meal as it took to prepare it.Do all your eating at a table.Cook.Break the rules once in awhile.
If you scan the stacks of your local bookstore, you'll find hundreds of diet & nutrition books, each one written by an "expert" who spouts scientific research to assure you that his book contains the secret to good nutrition.
Pollan is actually not giving rules as much as giving a paradigm, a way of looking at food and nutrition that tries to be simple and yet true.
As long as you realize you're paying full book price for a mini book content, I think you will enjoy the wisdom of Food Rules.
Apesar de ser claramente dirigido ao público americano, muitos destes conselhos são também aplicáveis à Europa ocidental, tendo em conta a quantidade assustadora de alimentos processados que a maioria das pessoas consome.
A que achei mais útil, tendo em conta que comemos normalmente comida "a sério", vegetais e fruta a todas as refeições, foi a que diz: "Coma as porcarias todas que quiser, desde que seja você a cozinhá-las" (regra 39).
Haverá mais meia dúzia de regras valiosas, mas a maior parte acaba por ser uma repetição dessas.This book consists in 64 simplistic rules which allegedly will help those who follow them to eat healthy.
Common Sense and Food...FinallyWith the over proliferation of diet books and "food wisdom" suffocating our culture Michael Pollan's books are a breath of fresh air.
Pollan breaks down his philosophy of eating into seven simple words, "Eat food, not too much, mostly vegetables." The three sections of this book are structured around this statement and offer the reader bits of advice and simple practices to help them change the way they eat.
Not all of the 64 pearls of wisdom are Pollan's alone.
Many of them come from people he interviewed or from his readers who submitted advice via a website created by Pollan.
What he says and what he writes make sense to me. I try to follow his advice. Actually, I have been striving to do so long before this book. My favorite rule?Never consume anything your grandmother wouldn't recognize as food.
As long as what we eat is fortified with vitamins and minerals (the most basic, reduced qualities of our foods), or if the dried blueberries provide antioxidants, then it doesn’t matter what the food looks like (or what color it turns our milk), it must be good for us.Pollan seemed to be identifying the problem of food science as reductionism: reducing "nutrition" and "health" down to vitamins, minerals, omega-3s – whatever we could find that seemed to have some sort of benefit for mankind.
Pollan believes that the voice of tradition and culture has as much or more to teach us, and to help us right our relationship to food, than the voices of science and industry and governmentand anyone who reads this book will almost without exception agree.
Michael Pollan’s Food Rules is a simple, matter of fact guide to eating designed to help readers to live longer and be healthier and happier.
Mostly plants.”The first twenty-one rules were dedicated to establishing the difference between, “Eat food” and eating food-like substances.
His first suggestion in this section is to pay more for your food because that encourages you to eat less and to buy higher quality ingredients.
Pollan’s final suggestion is to break the rules every once in awhile as long as you treat treats as treats and that what matters is not the occasional family holiday dinner but the day to day.
Jangan mengonsumsi sesuatu yang tidak dianggap makanan oleh nenek buyut Anda.
Hindari produk makanan dengan bahan yang tidak umum digunakan.
5. Hindari makanan yang salah satu dari tiga bahan utamanya adalah beragam bentuk pemanis.
Hindari produk yang mengandung lebih dari lima bahan baku (dalam produk siap santap dalam kemasan, bukan capcay...).
Hindari produk makanan yang bahan bakunya tidak bisa dilafalkan oleh siswa kelas 3 SD.
Konsumsi makanan dari bahan yang bisa anda bayangkan bentuk mentahnya atau tumbuh di alam.
Checked.20.Bukanlah makanan kalau datangnya melalui jendela mobil Anda.
Udah lama nggak makan sayur bayam nih, tapi sayuran lain juga boleh kan?
