https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243685.A_History_of_Western_Philosophy
There's a throwaway remark in this book which has haunted me ever since I read it some time in the mid-70s.
Russell is talking about Socrates, and he wonders if Socrates actually existed.
Maybe Plato made him up."I don't think many people would have been able to make up Socrates," muses Russell.
"But Plato could have done it."It's hard not to continue this line of reasoning.
If Socrates turns out to be fictional, who else is?
And which fictional characters of today will later be accepted as historical persons?
The more you think about it, the more you start feeling that the world really is a Philip K.
A Critical (& Patronizing) Survey of Western PhilosophyRussell is consistently opinionated throughout his presentation and it might confuse some of the readers that he is so casual in writing off some of the major philosophers and their key ideas.
After all, the long stretch of time that allowed Russell to undertake the tome was granted him by a stay in prison — his crime was distributing pacifist literature during the First World War. Hitler caused him to later renounce his pacifism, to the point that he wished he were younger so that he might don a uniform himself.If you were to attempt a history of philosophy, you can write a history without imposing on the reader what your own opinions are.
And Russell, a mathematician of the highest order as well as a starred philosopher is a clear and concise writer, careful to present each person's work in the context of its time, and showing how to some extent such philosophy shaped and refined the period it came from.
Moreover the author's wit shows through on most pages and he has a definite way with words.Just as we have authors today writing to make the most esoteric physics accessible to the layman through intelligent precis and analogy, Russell appears to have been a populist of his time.
A survey of Western philosophy from the pre-Socratic philosophers to the early 20th century, it was criticised for Russell's over-generalization and omissions, particularly from the post-Cartesian period, but nevertheless became a popular and commercial success, and has remained in print from its first publication.
When Russell was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1950, A History of Western Philosophy was cited as one of the books that won him the award.
تاریخ فلسفه‌ ی غرب، بازنویسی سلسله درس‌هایی ست، که «راسل» از سال 1940 میلادی، تا سال 1943 میلادی، در آمریکا داده بود، کتاب در تابستان سال 1944 میلادی و در انگلستان، برای انتشار آماده شد.
So, much time is spent giving thumb-nail sketches of the history of certain periods in a way that will help the student of philosophy understand where philosophers were coming from when they said such bizarre things as: nothing changes, everything changes, everything is fire, everything is water, matter does not exist, mind does not exist, and so on.He makes some truly fascinating points in this book – not least that there is no philosophy that is wholly logically consistent and that sometimes the danger is when a philosopher seeks to remain logically consistent rather than acknowledge the horrendous conclusions that the logical consistency of his ideas forces him toward.
In general, Russell is at his strongest when presenting the philosophy itself; he is at his weakest when writing history.
His ability to generalize is the cause of both qualities.As I mentioned above, Russell frequently injects his own views into the book.
The Nietzsche chapter even ends with a fictional conversation between Nietzsche, Buddha, and God. The only philosopher who I thought was manhandled was Plato, who Russell treats as he would "any contemporary advocate of totalitarianism." He doesn’t add that Plato almost singlehandedly created political philosophy.The reader of this book must be conscious of when it was written—at the height of WWII.
هر چند خیلی این انتقادها دقیق و لذت بخش بودن، (مخصوصاً با نثرِ گاه طنز آمیز کتاب که نمی دونم کار راسل بوده، یا نجف دریابندری) اما نکته ی مهم، اینه که کسی که تازه میخواد با نظریات یه فیلسوف آشنا بشه، میخواد بیشتر حرف های اون فیلسوف رو هضم کنه و بفهمه و حالا فعلاً دنبال صحیح و سقیم بودنش نیست.
من نصف کتاب رو اول خوندم، بعد رفتم دو کتاب دیگه در تاریخ فلسفه غرب خوندم که آشنا بشم، و دوباره برگشتم سر این کتاب.نکات پراکندهراسل کار جالبی میکنه و در همه ی نظریات، سعی میکنه پسزمینه ی اجتماعی اون نظریه رو هم مد نظر داشته باشه.
Enjoyed the comprehensive eye-opening knowledge. Highly recommended.
OverviewBertrand Russell's History consists of 76 Chapters, almost all under 20 pages.Each Chapter contains a summary of one major philosopher's key arguments interlaced with criticism that reflects Russell's own priorities and perspectives.
He is very clear and seems to be quite worldly and amusing.
I get the impression I might have enjoyed sitting next to him at a dinner party.My Reading ProjectAs part of a broader reading project, I will read and review some individual Chapters in My Writings.I will post links to My Writings below.Immanuel Kanthttp://www.goodreads.com/story/show/3...It's worth noting that he gives Kant more space than Hegel and almost twice as much space as Marx.
Yet, when Russell reaches what, to me, is the important period of Philosophy, namely the modern period from the Rennaisance till the present, I find that Russell's analysis of each philosopher begins to grow shallower, leading not to a decent caricature or snapshot of the work in question, but more to a wholly unfair criticism of all those Russell finds himself at odds with.Strangely enough, with the men of history that he finds himself in agreement with, he expresses a humility in regards to their work, clearly laying out his interpretation even though he dares not say that he truly understands m as fully as intended .
Sadly, little has changed in the 40 years since the writing of this statement, as Israel continues to expand into Palestinian territory, to deny the rights of refugees, and "to discover how much more aggression the world will tolerate" (empirical answer: quite a lot):"The development of the crisis in the Middle East is both dangerous and instructive.
The aggression committed by Israel must be condemned, not only because no state has the right to annex foreign territory, but because every expansion is an experiment to discover how much more aggression the world will tolerate.The refugees who surround Palestine in their hundreds of thousands were described recently by the Washington journalist I.F. Stone as “the moral millstone around the neck of world Jewry.” Many of the refugees are now well into the third decade of their precarious existence in temporary settlements.
Bertrand Russel rocks the entire history of Western Philosophy like a boss! Long but, oh so worth it!
Пуни наслов ове књиге гласи "Историја западне филозофије и њена повезаност са политичким и друштвеним условима од најранијег доба до данас", што већ само по себи прилично расвјетљава шта је то Расел овде покушао да уради.
Укратко су представљене идеје сваког од поменутих филозофа и онда је Расел на њих оставио своје критичке коментаре, тако да ово није "неутрална" књига, већ спада у књиге "са ставом", што ми се јако свиђа, нарочито пошто је Расел занимљив и духовит писац.
And, though you now have my opinion as well, don't let that deter you from approaching this well-written work.His broad overview of Western philosophy was published in 1945, toward the end of World War II, and includes brief to medium length chapters on many major philosophers, from the pre-Socratics to John Dewey.
Modern Philosophy, from the Italian Renaissance to John Dewey (approx.
In each of these periods, Russell is careful to provide a meaningful amount of historical context, as he describes the major life events, the ideas, and the influence of the philosophers he covers.
Russell makes it very clear what he thinks of every philosopher mentioned and it's not very hard to see who he likes and who he dislikes.
The first part of the book on Ancient Philosophy I thought was excellent and very fascinating.
A lot of this I found to be rather tedious and not as fun to read as the book before it.
Although tedious, it definitely had a lot of interesting things to say.
This was, much like the first book, really fascinating and was relatively interesting to read.
One would think that a history of philosophy would at least contain a mention of him, but alas!
Russell's History of Philosophy is a good little introduction to a massive field.
There are, however, a number of allusions to him in Aristotle, and it seems incredible that these (which include textual quotations) would have occurred if he had been merely a myth." -Bertrand Russell, The History of Western Philosophy, 1972, p.64But has made claims like this elsewhere,"Historically it is quite doubtful whether Christ ever existed at all, and if He did we do not know anything about him, so that I am not concerned with the historical question, which is a very difficult one." -Bertrand Russell, Why I Am Not A Christian."The Gospels were written far closer to the life of Jesus than Aristotle was to the time of Leucippus.
Of course, the philosophy of Leibniz was his specialty.Russell states that he purposes to give more of a history than an analysis of the philosophers he discusses.
We are in 1946, Russell is building the chain of ideas that have been pushing civilization to the current state.
His erudition is profound but he is biased while selecting thinkers and ideas.
And that's what makes this book so good.
For example, the mathematician starts boldly picking Pythagoras as the most important thinker ever.
Although nuts, Pythagoras wrote the first mathematical proof.
This is particularly rewarding if we did our homework and read the books he is discussing.
Seems that civilization needs much more of this "curiosity to understand the world" which is all over the place within this book.
This is of course an analytic philosopher's history of western philosophy, which means that Russell presupposes that there is a single rational goal which all philosophers are seeking to reach through collective progress.
Granted, Russell examines each thinker in their socio-historical perspective, but he fails to give credit to the work and creativity of the thinkers as ends in themselves, not particles of a universal human project.
Similarly, Heidegger is a glaringly absent in Russell's account, as he refused to admit that there was any seriousness to Heidegger's thought.
When you read it, you won't feel you are reading a textbook, because you can know what the author is thinking and that he is sharing his thoughts with you.
2. The author uses a critical and analytical method of representing the ideas he is going to make.
If that is the case for you, I strongly suggest that you first read another history of philosophy, and then compliment that by this book.
Russell's history of philosophy is more of an "Actually guys...
So you should know at least some history of philosophy to know what he is talking about.
Mungkin kerana itu buku ini tidak begitu digemari bagi mereka yang mengharapkan sebuah buku sejarah falsafah Barat diceritakan secara neutral atau matter-of-fact (aku tak boleh bayang betapa boringnya buku itu kalau ia wujud).
Russell bersama Whitehead telah menggariskan prinsip-prinsip asas dalam matematik yang boleh dijadikan sandaran kepada perkembangan ilmu logik moden dalam buku 3 jilid tulisan mereka Principia Mathematica.Seperti yang boleh diagak daripada tajuknya, buku ini menceritakan tentang sejarah falsafah Barat dan Russell bercerita tentang topik ini dengan membahagikan setiap tajuk kepada faylasuf-faylasuf tersebut.
Bagi aku sendiri manfaat terbesar buku ini kepada aku adalah di dalam memberikan gambaran dan latar zaman yang begitu jelas sewaktu era Scholastic Philosophy.
Ray Monk"A History of Western Philosophy remains unchallenged as the perfect introduction to its subject.
The result is exactly the kind of philosophy that most people would like to read, but which only Russell could possibly have written." Book DescriptionFirst published in 1946, History of Western Philosophy went on to become the best-selling philosophy book of the twentieth century.
A dazzlingly ambitious project, it remains unchallenged to this day as the ultimate introduction to Western philosophy.
Of course this cannot be the only reason it ended up the best selling philosophy book of the twentieth century.
To be honest they are both subjective and fairly biased views of historical philosophy but I just prefer Gotliebs bias more!
Russell focuses a bit too much on the matching up of philosophers to their works and not as much as he says he was going to on how that relates to society.
I got really excited reading the preface and thinking, yes!
I still have to rate this five stars as it is an amazing work and very enjoyable.
I read it slowly and with my favorite study buddy google, and there was a lot of great information here and I do think its a valuable and well put together piece.
This has served as a resource/reference for countless various reasons.
Mr. Russell offers a pretty comprehensive account of Western, intellectual history here, but he also provides erudite commentary on almost all major philosophers & philosophies of the Western tradition.
The only reason I give this 4 and not 5 stars is Mr. Russell's glaring ommission of Kierkegaard.
I guess one could also complain about his treatment of late 19th century continental philosophy - but this could be the result of a lack of historical distance, considering Russell published this work no later than the 1940s.
At any rate, this book is worth purchasing as it serves as a very useful reference.
This is the mother of all books!This tome was apparently dictated by Bertrand Russell to his secretary during his lecture trips in America as he traveled by train across the country in the 1920s.It is witty, provocative, profound, and informative all at the same time.If you want to know what genius is, then read this book.
It is the encapsulation of the entire philosophical thoughts of the western world, written (well, dictated) in the most engaging way possible.
Need I say more?
Read it.[Alas, my paperback copy is falling apart...I should get a newer edition, but I'd loath to part with this tattered and yellowed book that I cherish so much]
تاريخ الفلسفة الغربية لبرتراند راسل ، بأجزائه الثلاثة ، الفلسفة اليونانية ، وفلسفة العصور الوسطي، والفلسفة الحديثةمن أهم الكتب لدارسي الفلسفة ، ويمكن القول إنه لا غني عنها ، فانت هنا تعرف تاريخ الفسلفة بقلم فيلسوفوالذي يشرح لك الفلسفة فيلسوفوالذي يؤرخ وينقد ويحاورك فيلسوفتخيل حين تفهم أفكار الفلاسفة بفكر فيلسوفأكثر من رائع ، خاصة في ظل اسلوب رسل السهل والمتواضع أيضاًفنراه يعترف في الكتاب أن نظرية الزمان والمكان لكانط صعبة الفهم وأنه نفسه عاني ليفهمهاجميل
It presented most of the major western philosophers in chronological order starting from the ancient greek.
It focused most on political theory and the influence of politics and society on the philosophers view as well as the social impact of the philosophers on their communities.
I especially enjoyed the part on the ancient greeks and found it very informative and to a certain sense romantic.
It also covered part of the Islamic philosophy and acknowledged its influence on european culture.
I also didn't like that this major work didn't adress existentialist philosophy more than a short harsh criticism of Nietzsche.
This is THE absolute reference book for Western Philosophy. Starting from the Pro-Socratic times and ending at the dawn of the 20th century, Russel goes through all the major philosophical movements of the West. The thought of most major philosophers is being beautifully laid down and analysed by one of the greatest minds of the 20th century. Despite being very dense, the book is wonderfully readable, so if you have any interest in the matter this is a work that should be in your library (and in a very accessible shelf)
There is no doubt that Russell ignores some important elements in the history of western thought in his History of Western Philosophy.
I may be biased toward him and the importance he gives to the scientific method in considering the various schools of philosophy.
He obviously aims at a philosophy based on the scientific knowledge acquired at his time.
Though non-comprehensive and outdated concerning the important scientific findings of the second half of the 20th century, this is a good introduction to philosophy and I will surely refer to it in the future.
This book is really a fantasitic work!
A broad way to the western philosophy!
I bought this book last week, and fell in love with it suddenly.
I have read it many times already.
I love 'the schoolmen' best.
By the way, the table of contents is very nice, too.
Many histories of philosophy exist, and it has not been my purpose merely to add one to their number.
My purpose is to exhibit philosophy as an integral part of social and politicallife.That's my first time to read a book written by a man of Wales.
A great introduction to all of the heavy weight philosophers. The last chapter summed up well why Russell had the habit of crushing each of the philosophers in turn throughout the book. Certainly some spankings were in order. Russell had a great mind, and this book had an interesting historical accompaniment along with each summary. (Spoiler) He was not a fan of Nietzsche.
