https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24761.An_Acceptable_Time
All we know is that he showed up at her grandparents' house without any kind of verification or warning that he was coming after being sent ahead by Polly's parents.Now, imagine for just a moment that you have a teenage granddaughter who is staying with you.
Then, it got bashed around on the rocks down below as I made my way through the book, before finally drowning and sinking to bottom of the Sea of Disbelief.So Polly has this time slippage event where she's out on a walk and ends up a few thousand years in the past.
In An Acceptable Time, Polly is alright as a character but I kind of felt like I was missing half the story (that might be because this book takes place after three other books that aren’t considered part of the quintet) and sometimes her response to some of the events seemed flimsy and came with little to no explanation.
Polly’s grandparents bothered me the most because they seemed so disbelieving of everything that Polly was saying, but in the first book Mr. Murray not only travels in time but to another planet as well.

The last book of this series was such a disappointment.
An Acceptable Time is about Polly’s adventure into the prehistory of the druids.
She, of course, crossed the time gate into the past.
Now throughout this story, I was bored.
Like really really bored.
Again, I was really bored.
I think this might my least favorite book out of the series.
Overall, I’m glad that the series is over and I can finally move on with my life.
I really enjoyed the first book but ever since then ..
I’m just like..
I’m done.
I’m done.
Goodbye series!
Yes, it continues the story of the Murry clan, and yes, it involves druids and blood sacrifice and time travel, (in a way quite parallel to A Swiftly Tilting Planet) and yes, it does eventually get around to a nice satisfying moral.
The dialogue is confusing and repetitive, when it's not inane.
If it had been condensed to about half the length, with serious dialogue editing, it might have worked.
Read it because you love Madeleine L'Engle and the Murry clan, but not because you expect it to be as good as A Wrinkle In Time.
Okay, first Polly O'Keefe goes to live with her grandparents, and Zachary Grey *blech* keeps stopping by, and of course there's a rift in the space-time continuum, but her grandparents, whom you thought you knew so well from other books, have trouble believing such things could be happening......
By the time Polly goes back and gets trapped, I couldn't stand it and skipped ahead - the usual peaceful people versus the warlike people thing.
Zach *wants* to stay in the past because he thinks he'll have better luck curing/fixing his heart condition in a distant, pre-scientific past (yes, because people *never* died of stuff like that before modern medicine came along).
Later, when Polly is having a swim, a mysterious girl appears, Anaral, indicating that she is from a far-distant past -- the time of Bishop Colubra's stone.
It emerges that the bishop knows a lot more about the opening up of the timegate between now and then than he's been letting on; it's because he's been bopping back there regularly that several of the People of the Wind, as Anaral's tribe are called, can speak fluent English.
Zachary, whose whingeing has by now reached epic proportions, betrays Polly to the People Across the Lake in the hope that their healer will cure his heart condition in return for the tribe being allowed to blood-sacrifice her.
4.5 🌟An Acceptable Time is the final book in the Wrinkle in Time series. This was my second favorite book of the series just behind A Swiftly Tilting Planet. There were vivid images of perfect fall days filled with family and comfort food. The plot tackled themes of time travel, honor, love, war, and religion. At times the story was slow moving, but was still a great escape filled with thought provoking scenes.
I like a good dose of time travel & a little potential romance.
I see the little plot holes & convenient coincidences that I missed last time.
A few decades later (and after reading more of her biography in Becoming Madeleine: A Biography of the Author of a Wrinkle in Time by Her Granddaughters and A Light So Lovely: The Spiritual Legacy of Madeleine L'Engle, Author of A Wrinkle in Time), L'Engle's books seem more human.
I want to live the life of a L'Engle protagonist--oddly out of place here and now, but peculiarly gifted for another time and place.
*gasps in relief*That went so much better than I expected it to.
Still not sure whether it should be three or four stars...
probably three stars...
but we'll give it 3.5 in my post-Many Waters relief.
Towards the end I caught the same strains that pulsed through A Wrinkle in Time, and, to a lesser degree, A Wind in the Door, that got lost in the other books - the same song that echoes in a Greater Story.
But...ZACHARY IS (view spoiler)[ ABSOLUTELY AWFUL.
But if it wasn't for his redemption arc and the redemption arcs he forced the others into, I might not have felt the Song.
They get all upset and protective about Polly and this time gate thing, and they don't believe her or Bishop at first.
Then there's Zach, apparently Polly meets him in some other book but I didn't have time to read it and it really didn't seem that necessary.
Zach was weird and I didn't trust him because when introduced he acts like Polly's boyfriend and she doesn't want that shit.
Polly on the other hand, she was okay, I didn't like her as much as Meg, but I liked her as a main character.
For example, in the book a young druid casts runes and the bishop in the story proclaims “…these are not fortune-telling stones?” Then the Druid replies “No, No…The stones do not tell us what is going to happen, or what we are to do…” Now, I’m by no means a 3,000-year-old Druid but from what I’ve read Druids were known for their gift of prophecy.
On the whole not bad, however there are about 100 pages that can probably be skipped – its just 100 pages of Polly and the Bishop trying to convince her grandparents that they really are going back in time.
It isn’t a great grand finale to the series but rather a cute story that can be read just on its own.
An Acceptable Time: it only took until the last book in the series, but I actually really liked this one.I mean, don't get me wrong, it's still coloured with L'Engle's weird brand of things.
But, things were better this time around.
There were characters that weren't Christian.
The first half was mostly just the characters talking about this door to the past, but the second half?
I liked the characters, I liked their dynamics, and their interactions, and the one romance that properly came about.
But, to give credit where it is due, An Acceptable Time finished the series on a higher note for me, for which I am glad.
For example, in this book, the Drs. Murry continue to be disbelieving about the time gate that Bishop Colubra and Polly have been entering.
Karralys and Anaral tell Polly that she is "part of the pattern." They are in a drought and there have been raids by their traditional enemy they call the People Across the Lake.Dr. Louise Colubra's brother, a retired Episcopal bishop, is living with Dr. Louise.
The bishop confesses to Polly and the Murrys that he thinks that several months earlier, he inadvertently opened a time gate to the past and that Polly appears to have been "caught" inside a tesseract.
Wow. What a difference this book was from the fourth. I thoroughly enjoyed this one and couldn’t put it down. The story ran much more smoothly than the last and the characters were interesting and well written. The usual religious overt tones were present but at least this time they were mixed in with the sort rather than preachy.
what?*Polly falls for warrior who wants to sacrifice her* Polly: I really wanna see Tav again even though he wants to sacrifice me to the gods cause he's like totally cute.
....okay?*throughout the book we're told love solves everything and you should always choose love* Polly: I never wanna think of Zach again.
He did something bad so we're justified in letting him die-wait.*Tav wants to sacrifice Polly to end the drought* Tav: Zach is not worth a single hair on Polly's head cause he wanted to sacrifice her!
This book was certainly better than a wind in the door and a swiftly tilting planet.
However, unlike many of the reviews have said I found Polly to be exceedingly engaging and was one of the few things that kept this book in the 'meh' category as opposed to the 'ugh' category.
We got the feeling that she didn't have good self-esteem, however we were not beaten over the head with the information like we were with Meg. I did quite enjoy that the series ended with this book.
What I didn't like was how stuck in their ways and angry the Murry parents and Dr. Colubra got when faced with the idea of the time door.
I loved the ammount of time spent around the Murry's dining room table and the way all the years that had gone by brought perspective and the quietness of old age to this story.
Meeting Zachary again (I've read about him in AROEL and TAOTS) in this book was fun.
In this book, the theme we went over again and again was the place of love in the universe.
that love is foreign to him.
Time travel gives readers the chance to see that truth is truth.
L'Engle knew that and her books help readers to be sure of it right along wih her.
This was an interesting conclusion to madeleine L'Engle's A Wrinkle in Time series.
The story continues with the Murry's granddaughter traveling through time to meet with individuals struggling for survival in the New World.
The book is well written and continues to explore many philosophical and ethical themes, just as all the previous books in the series have done.If I had to rate this series of all books as a unit I would rate it higher than I rated the individual books because I loved the way the author handled different issues and the way the the books fit together.
If you haven't read anything by Madeleine L'Engle you might want to check out some of her books.
It is disastrous to confuse them.”― Madeleine L'Engle, An Acceptable Time This is such an interesting series, each book is very loosely connected to the others -- but this one is such a complete disconnect.
Polly is a weak central character and the introduction of Zachary is just odd, especially since they keep referring to their previous acquaintance without really providing any real details.
The first part of the final chapter was the only part of the book that had the same spark as the other books in the series and somewhat redeemed it for me -- at least enough for a 2 star rating.
In this book, Polly, the daughter of Meg (who had been the heroine of most of the other Time Quintet novels) has come to live with her grandparents.
(view spoiler)[I was glad when she finally showed some backbone about it and said clearly she didn't ever want to see him again, but it took some pretty extreme behaviour to get her there!
(hide spoiler)] I liked that despite the stirrings of romance, the story ended without an epic kiss or any of the usual romance trappings.I'm a little lost as to the moral of this story so I think I will need to sit with it a little longer to pull it together.
Finally finished.
I'm so annoyed at how painstaking it was to read this book.
Parts of it were still so, SO good, but it pales in comparison to literally every other book in the Murry/O'Keefe storyline.Oh, well.
At least I never have to hear from Zachary again.But, my darling Murry/O'Keefe family, you who got me through the end of my senior year of high school: Thank you.
My heart is already heavy with the lack of your stories, but I will certainly be back.
Sorry it took me so long to get around to you all, but hey, at least I made it!
Rating: 3.5/5 starsI feel like this book just dragged on and on, to the point where I was really thinking about dnf-ing it. The characters were just mediocre. Zachary was super annoying of a character, though. He made me want to end the book even more.I guess the plot is okay... but Polly is just talking and doing nothing for way too many pages of the book. No, I DON'T need to hear her uninteresting conversations.Nope nope nope. (But I still like it. Don't get me wrong.)
Grade: B
Mind you, that's because it's really the only character depth we get out of all five books, but it makes the entire experience of An Acceptable Time a lot more bearable.
Anyone reading these books can see that Polly and her best friend, Max, had a relationship that was clearly "more than friends." When Anaral's character got introduced, the spark of chemistry between Polly and her was a shock so bright and wonderful that I just stamped "Girlfriends!" on my heart, because had L'Engle actually written this differently, it would have been a beautiful and charming relationship to explore.
I feel like it needs to be noted that I read the Wrinkle in Time series for the first time as an adult; I had no prior knowledge of the storyline, no nostalgia tied to any of the books.
Read as an adult, this entire series is one of the most boring I’ve ever read - it has flaky science scattered throughout, and somehow FIVE whole books were written without much really happening in any of them.
Things just sort of happen with no real explanation, without much character development, and little description of the setting - all of which are necessary to create a picture in the reader’s mind.
L'Engle's Time Quintet has always been about the passage of time, so a final book that follows a new character, granddaughter to the Drs. Murry and daughter to Calvin and Meg seems fitting.
As time passes and we grow up, our children come up behind us and live life in ways both similar to and different from we might ever have imagined.This book follows the time travelling journey's of Meg's daughter Polly.
So while the book remains enjoyable at a purely narrative level, and the theme L'Engle tackles is certainly appropriate for the final book in the series, it isn't quite the book of some of the earlier entires in the Time Quintet.
The most "grown-up" of the Time series, and that's not a good thing.
The departures from reality are much milder and in fact, apart from the space/time travel that is present in every book of the series, there is very little that is fantasy proper.
The problem is that L'Engle just isn't that great at handling the increased gravity.
The buildup is actually pretty suspenseful and exciting (the pace here is much slower than in the other Time books), but the payoff in the last third is lousy.
Why couldn't L'Engle have just carried on with the kind of stuff in A Wrinkle in Time?
I'm reading the Time series and am immediately thrust into book 4 of another series...
I hope we get some more insights into their lives during the course of the "O'Keefe Family" series...Polly O'Keefe, one of Meg's seven children, goes to visit her grandparents (Alex and Kate Murry - Meg's parents), and stumbles into a teseract on their property.
I'm moving on now to the first of the "O'Keefe" series - "The Arm of the Starfish" and hope to read more about Meg's story.
I recently read A Wrinkle in Time, which I thought I was re-reading but apparently for most of my adult life I've had that book confused with several others, including The Not-just-anybody Family and this book. All I remember from An Acceptable Time was a) the cover (that red cloak!), and b) the idea of time circles. I can pretty distinctly recall a scene early on in the story where the main character, a young girl, is wandering around in the forest behind her house and finds a stone wall, where apparently time often overlaps.
