https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3581.Sherlock_Holmes
Here, in two novels and 36 stories, are some of the adventures of Sherlock Holmes, as recorded by his trusty friend and sidekick Dr. John Watson, from their first fateful meeting to Holmes's apparent death and surprising return, and beyond--featuring murderous Mormons, Klansmen without Konscience, mysterious American ladies with mysterious pasts, kidnappers, wayward clerks, giants, hunters, bad men, good men, beasts of all natures and descriptions--oops, sorry, got carried away there.
After that success again, he continue writing.The first volume of the book composes of 2 novels (The Study in Scarlet and The Sign of Four) and 3 compilation of short stories and mini adventures of Sherlock Holmes and John Watson (Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, Memoir of Sherlock Holmes and The Return of Sherlock Holmes).
So far, I only enjoyed one story or novel in the book;The Story in Scarlet - This is the first published work of Arthur Conan Doyle and I loved it!
.Rating: Sherlock Holmes: The Complete Novels and Stories, Volume 1 by Arthur Conan Doyle, 3 SweetsChallenges:Book #269 for 2011Book #131 for Off the Shelf!
You wanna know why I love Sherlock Holmes so much?
And why I've read every novel and story Arthur Conan Doyle ever wrote concerning the character, as well as many of the modern adventures and nearly all the film and TV adaptations?
Because Sherlock Holmes is a magnificent a--hole.
And this I'm sure is what keeps the master detective so continually popular among even the most contemporary of audiences, even with the BBC filming yet another new version the year before I'm wrote this review (or 2006, that is), even as so many of the popular characters from Victorian fantastical literature are right now permanently turning towards obscurity, even others invented by Conan Doyle as well.
The Sherlock Holmes stories were the source of modern crime-solving adaptations that we now experience in television, and Doyle's tales of mystery and adventure were often audacious, insightful and clever.
The real draw of his stories is the process of crime detection ("deductive reasoning") that Doyle allows the readers to understand, experience and apply themselves alongside Watson as Holmes investigates the cases.
Nevertheless, the Doyle canon (composed of 56 short stories classified into the Adventures, Memoirs, Return, His Last Bow and Casebook; and four novels) are more engrossing and intimate to read as Watson's accounts manages to illuminate Holmes' methods as well as humanize the often callous, razor-sharp and unfeeling sleuth.
Whether it is the introduction of Holmes and Watson from "The Study in Scarlet," the intriguing "The Sign of Four," or the infamous encounters with Irene Adler and Professor Moriarty, these stories are rich, engaging, well-scripted and thoroughly enjoyable. The format of many short stories in rapid succession keeps things fresh while continuing to present Holmes' uncanny abilities and tales one after another.The writing still feels fresh, the vocabulary extraordinary and the banter and mysteries just as relevant and exciting now as I'd imagine they were in the 19th century.5 stars.
Despite this taking me one year to finish, I loved it and I didn't realize I was going to love it as much as I did. Any of the Sherlock novels are worth your time, thru are delightful.
Few points in my life have had circumstances come together and arrange themselves in such an agreeable manner so as to make a reading experience as memorable as this one.Like most readers, I entered the world of Sherlock Holmes - at once stretching between the streets of London with in all its vividness, to the deeper, richer world beyond - into the mind of the man whose name this novel bears - with A Study In Scarlet.
There are few ways as good to spend long winter nights than escaping - for an escape is what these delicious stories offer us readers - into the adventures of Sherlock Holmes.
I did it, finished this book before the end of the month.
Doyle is brilliant in his writings and engaged me throughout this very long book.
In the Return of Sherlock section, I passed by The Adventures of Black Peter for the same reason.
At the beginning of the Return of Sherlock section in the story The Adventure of the Norwood Builder, Watson mentions he has sold his medical practice and moved back to Baker Street with Holmes.Volume 2 of this will remain on my tbr list for awhile though.
Second time read and still love it.
Ich mag A Study in Scarlet aber sehr, weil sich Holmes und Watson kennenlernen auch wenn die Hälfte der Story nichts mit Holmes Art zu ermitteln zu tun hat, sondern die Vorgeschichte der Tat erzählt.
In The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes gibt es ein paar coole Fälle aber zwischendrin ein paar, die weniger interessant sind.
The Return of Sherlock Holmes hat mir am meisten gefallen und ich hatte das Gefühl, dass die Fälle hier viel spannender waren.
Zumindest haben mir hier fast alle gefallen.Was ich am schönsten an den Stories finde, ist die Entwicklung der Freundschaft von Holmes und Watson.
And, here I am, 5 years later, still left with half the Holmes, which, you know, I'm excited for, more to look forward to.I got to see Doyle's chivalrous Holmes, his London and though I did try, I couldn't help comparing Holmes and Sherlock and the funny thing, I still can't decide which I like best because both are the best in their own right, I like them both just the same which is just so so beautiful and says much about the respective writers.
While not exactly what I would call compelling reading, this is a nice collection of stories that are probably best enjoyed over breakfast, or perhaps on the subway ride to work.
I know it's sacrilege, but I find Doyle's Sherlock Holmes stories to be a bit underwhelming, though completely readable.
And just a single story featuring Holmes' brilliant-but-lazy brother, Mycroft?
But overall I did enjoy this collection of mysteries, and it was nice to see Watson portrayed the way he was originally meant to be--and not as a buffoon constantly used for cheap comic relief, as, unfortunately, he was in so many of the TV series.
The actual edition that I read was: The Complete Sherlock Holmes, Volume I (Barnes & Noble Classics Series)by Arthur Conan Doyle, Kyle Freeman (Editor) I am unable to locate that edition on the Goodreads search engine.
Being a writer, I take a different view on the stories now than I did then.
I also have a different perspective, having learned a bit about Doyle himself and his disdain for this work.
Nonetheless, I still came away very satisfied from my reading of this entire two-volume collection.
I still very much love Doyle's patient teaching of the methods of deduction and observation.
It took me more than 2 months to finish each book (Volume 1 and 2), and though it seems to be a blow on my pride being a self-proclaimed bookworm and fast-reader, it doesn't bother me at all.
Yep. Because as I read every single story and chapters in this compilation of the great works of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, it was like I was right there with Sherlock and Watson.
Read the full review for both Volume 1 and 2 hereHave you read this book or any of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's work?
What do you think?
It was a long read but worth every moment. I love the variety of stories and I am looking forward to reading the second volume.
Nobody to blame but myself, but I was determined to finish every single story because I was afraid I'd abandon it if I took a break to read something else.
2. Sherlock Holmes is easily one of the most enigmatic characters to exist in literature.
4. I found it difficult to ignore the ethnocentrism that permeates these stories, though as an Enid Blyton veteran, I wasn't too bothered by them.
Uncertain about the relevance, and even the importance of these stories in the 21st century and beyond.
We need a new Sherlock Holmes for the 21st century; surly, laconic Scandinavian/Scottish detectives battling inner demons need not apply.
Despite the fact that I was able to sort of predict the outcomes of the mysteries by the end of the book (after fifty-some stories, you can't help noticing patterns), I really enjoyed each of them.
The book contains two short novels and thirty five short stories, and they're all pretty interesting.
I liked the short stories a lot because each of them was a complete mystery, but I could finish one in about fifteen minutes.
I have got the book of the same front cover which takes you back in old times. Also, this was my first ever novel that I had bought. This book takes you from relaxing in your house to chilling spine in old London time. This book is already famous and what's more to say about it !!! Love, thriller, and despair. This book gives you everything that a reader would ever want.
Such great stories. The characters of Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson slowly come alive as each case opens and closes. The longer more detaile cases keep you hanging on until the last page! Excellent!
(His marriage happens directly after the events of the second novel, before all the short stories even take place, so needless to say there's a lot of skipping around.) Not to mention that the book packagers make things confusing for a purist by putting the individual volumes slightly out of their publishing order at times (more about that when I review Volume II--anyway, it's not something you'd even notice if you didn't read the publication dates.)Well, first of all I think A Study In Scarlet is the best beginning ever written.
A maior graça em ler Sherlock Holmes, para mim, foi cavar os otimismos pré-guerras mundiais, o elogio da sociedade de controle e do biopoder e a misantropia científica das convicções modernas que culminaram nos genocídios da primeira metade do século XX.No "Sinal dos Quatro", p.
O que mais me chamou atenção é que, especialmente nos primeiros romances ("O Estudo em Vermelho" e "O Sinal dos quatro"), Holmes não é o herói das histórias e sim o algoz do heroísmo.
It is not a collection that I would generally recommend reading all at once, and while I read a lot of it recently, I did break it up a bit.One of the things to love about Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's writing is the collection of interesting names!
: )His writing is well worth the time to enjoy!~*~My collection included the following Novels and Short Stories:
a bit gruesome and certainly more so than most of his work.
Based on my vague five-year-ago memories, I don't think I was a huge fan of the first two novels included (A Study in Scarlet and The Sign of Four) and I think that's what contributed to me taking so long to read it.
I also really liked that as you read more stories, you slowly get to put together this picture in your mind of who Holmes and Watson are and what their lives and relationship is like.
Although each short story only has so many pages, there are usually a few details about the characters introduced in each one, so that a picture of them slowly builds in your mind.
as we  know that the basic of all the stories in this book are the same that a mystery happens and the local police or the person related to that mystery seeks the help of Sherlock..our hero scoops in does some genius investigation that we won't understand until Sherlock himself tells what he had done and finally the mystery is solved..But the interesting part is none of the stories are similar to each and other.
I took the Character of Watson during my reading inorder to understand Sherlock more...Sherlock Holmes is combination of a private investigator..a forensic expert ..a genius chemist etc etc..
In lieu of an actual review on the stories, I can only provide some commentary on the slick packaging of these new editions of Conan Doyle’s legendary detective mastermind.Material Included in This Contemporaneous Collection:The BookStories: “A Study In Scarlet”, “The Sign Of Four” and all tales under the headings The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes (12 cases), The Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes (11 cases), and The Return of Sherlock Holmes (13 cases).Bonus DVD MaterialBehind the Scenes: A compelling look at the famous duo, Holmes and Watson.
This is a collection of the Sherlock Holmes stories in order.
It's enjoyable to read not just for the stories contained within, but because of the tone and way its written.
Watson narrates the goings on of Sherlock Holmes from his own perspective and it very much gives off that sort of feel.
Its always a fun time trying to see if you can figure out what sort of conclusions Sherlock Holmes is going to draw from the stories.
Sometimes they're kind of easy and other times they are most difficult.
I've been reading this book off and on for months.
I liked the novel length stories a lot, and some of the other stories were great.
Sometimes they were truly clever, or amusing, or touching - but a lot of them were sort of ho-hum.I was also disappointed to learn that Holmes' great rivla, Moriarity, is only in a scant few stories, and Irene Adler is in one!
(Of course, I haven't read the second volume, yet, and I still hope this will be rectified.)In a way, I'm glad I had the exposure to Holmes I did early on, prior to reading the stories, because I'm not sure, if I'd started with the stories, what I'd think, to be honest.
Everyone is familiar with at least some of Sherlock Holmes stories, or at least some of Sherlock Holmes' characteristics - he is the master of deductive reasoning - an eccentric man always accompanied by his long-suffering sidekick and friend Watson.
But you realize when you read his stories (and there are many of them - more than 750 pages worth) that movies are still being made about this guy because the stories are really very well written.
These stories made me so interested in Sir Authur Conan Doyle the person - I am definitely going to read his autobiography.
The everyday lives and troubles of the average as well as noble londoners of the late 19th century, the author's precise use of words and above all the warm friendship between the 2 central characters, made the second reading well worth it.If I had to pick a single reason as to why Sherlock Holmes is my favourite detective, it would be the manner in which he unravels the mystery: from a seemingly incoherent mess, to a maddeningly simple solution in matter of minutes!A special mention goes to the introduction by Loren Estleman in praise of Dr. Watson.
Holmes was such as asshat before his 'hiatus', it's a wonder the reading public could put up with his ego!
I may not have found this as interesting because I read the second volume first, and thus by the time I got to the first volume, the stories were starting to follow a familiar, predictable pattern (like all mysteries).
Volume I here does contain the infamous Moriarty who everyone thinks was really a big part of Holmes's life, but is actually only mentioned twice (in the story he appears in, and in passing in The Hound of the Baskervilles).
Read these stories for Watson.
