https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/213653.The_Ministry_of_Fear
Ray Milland and Marjorie Reynolds star in the 1944 movie of Ministry of Fear.Arthur Rowe is a murderer.
Jerusalem must have looked something like this in the mind’s eye of Christ when he wept….”The Blitz was a good time to settle scores, an amazing opportunity to get away with murder, as people are being killed every day by bombs dropping from the sky and landmines.
There are people trying to kill him.Graham Greene, I see you lurking between sentences, peering around the edges of paragraphs, pressed up, in the shadows, at the spine of the book.
This is wonderful.
Elements of Brighton-boardinghouse, noir, absurdist, amnesiac, crime and spy genres, leavened with (pre) echoes of The Prisoner and 1984 and even Kafka's The Trial.
This book is written with Orwell's general satirical edge, even if only a slight one, is definitely the most entertaining book I've read in ages.
I'm so enjoying it.I really love good writing for it's own sake and when that's married to plot and characterisation, it becomes a book you can't put down.
And at the speed I read, that means the book is too short.
Lucky for me that Greene was such a prolific writer.
I'm continually impressed by Graham Greene's work. Even here, in what Greene called "an entertainment," he displays exquisite sentence-level crafting that's actually quite Jamesian in its sophistication and verve. Greene's attention to character also shines in this murky story of espionage, betrayal, and mistaken identity. The plot may have been a bit muddled for my taste--the tension not building nearly as well as in his major work--but this is a very fine novel that transports you to wartime London in a way few other books do.
First thing to say is that I thought the quality of the writing deserved a more sophisticated plot.
The novel opens with a preposterous premise – a cell of Nazi spies hide a vital roll of film inside a cake which is the prize at a fete.
I don’t like dreams in novels.
“In Gower Street they were sweeping up glass, and a building smoked into the new day like a candle which some late reveler had forgotten to snuff.” The plot, though never entirely believable, becomes more gripping at the half way point.
The author did not go overboard in depicting the destruction yet it was so effectively portrayed.We get introduced to our protagonist, Arthur Rowe, at the very beginning of the story when he attends a fete.
You don’t expect to find a man in my position, do you, crawling about floors with a microscope looking for blood-stains?”Against the advice of Rennit, Rowe decides to plunge into the investigation – makes new allies and soon is implicated in a murder.I won’t talk about the story anymore as I don’t want to reveal the story too much.
Does a man have the right to shorten someone's life and anguish ?
Does compassion, mercy, pity, love - call it as you want - give anyone the moral right to do such a thing ?
Love isn’t safe when pity’s prowling around .Tormented by guilt Artur Rowe wandering through the ravaged London on a strange impulse drops in the charity fair and wins a cake, the same getting oneself in the middle of the spy scandal.
Unfortunately, the memory slowly returns and Rowe has finally to decide whether to accept his painful past with all its consequences.
Arthur Rowe is a repressed and guilt ridden man, living out the war in a London boarding house with little companionship.
So, when he comes across a rather sad little wartime fete, he is eager to recall the memories of childhood it evokes.
During the fete, a misunderstanding means that he wins a cake.
Arthur Rowe is bombed more than once during the novel and many of the people he comes across have a furtive, nervous air about them.
This is a disturbing novel in places; a tale of coming to terms with guilt, the weight of memory, of love and loyalty.
It all starts with a visit to the local charity fete – held to raise money ‘all for a good cause’ and the unfortunate unfolding subsequent events concerning our main protagonist Arthur Rowe and a cake.As always with Graham Greene novels there is much to like here and the opening chapters concerning the fete and confusion concerning said cake are great.
Events unfold and the plot certainly thickens – however, it doesn’t all seem to gel in the same way as his other novels do; it just doesn’t feel as homogeneous or as perfectly constructed as his stronger works do and it is certainly not in the same league as Greene’s greatest novels, namely – ‘The Heart of the Matter’, ‘The End of the Affair’, ‘The Power and the Glory’ and ‘The Quiet American’.
Don't expect it to thrill you with set action pieces; the thrill here comes mainly from seeing the plot unfold through the eyes of a protagonist driven almost paranoid with past guilt and present fear.GG has been one of the constant loves of my reading life & this book has some of the signature Greene moments–the wonderful blend of the tragi-comic elements, the wry & subtle humour,the understated irony- I'm especially thinking here of the opening carnival scene & the midway hotel room sequence- Hitchcock would've given both his arms for the nerves-on-edge, pulsating tension of these two.But don't come here expecting another The Third Man–there will never be another one.
Innocence, patriotism, self-delusion, psychology, memory, complexity, love, deceit and heroismThe Ministry of Fear (1943) is a perfect book: accessible, clever, beautifully written, evocative, tense, and quietly profound.
A palpable sense of dread and unease runs throughout the story set in the early years of World War 2 in England, primarily London.On one level the book is a simple story of espionage, fifth columnists, and a hapless man who gets caught up in things he does not understand however there is far more to it than that.
The story, which starts at a sinister fete, and rattles along from the word go, also muses on innocence, patriotism, self-delusion, psychology, memory, complexity, love, deceit and heroism.
Alan Furst, intro, says this is fine reading on trains-planes.  Who is this a/hole?
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Ο κεντρικός ήρωας, ο Άρθουρ Ρόου είναι μια υπέροχη περσόνα, ένας αξέχαστος πρωταγωνιστής που έχει λυγίσει από το βάρος των τύψεων του.
Σύντομα θα καταλάβει ότι κάτι πάει στραβά αλλά τελικά θα βυθιστεί ακόμα πιο βαθιά στον κόσμο της κατασκοπίας.
O Greene πέρα απ'την πολύ προσεγμένη ανάπτυξη της πλοκής παραδίδει ένα δυνατό ψυχογράφημα κ μιλάει ταυτόχρονα για την ηθική κ το καθήκον, τις ενοχές κ την υπευθυνότητα κ.ο.κ.
Σημασία έχει ότι ο Greene είναι εγγύηση ακόμα κ σε αυτή τη μέτρια έκδοση απ'τις εκδοσεις Ερατώ με τη τραγική γραμματοσειρά κ τη μέτρια μετάφραση.
Γι’ αυτούς αποτελεί μονάχα στατιστική  Και όμως αυτό το βιβλίο φάνηκε να μην είναι ακριβώς του γούστου μου, κατά διαστήματα χανόταν σε φύσεις που δεν ήθελα να το ακολουθήσω, σε κλίμα πιπεράτο που δε με άφηνε να πλησιάσω πολύ.
Δεν είναι μήπως καλύτερα να συμμετέχεις ακόμα και στα εγκλήματα των ανθρώπων που αγαπάς, ακόμα και να μισήσεις όπως αυτοί – αν είναι απαραίτητο – ακόμα και να υποφέρεις στην κόλαση μαζί τους, αν όλα εκεί καταλήγουν αντί να σωθείς μόνος σου; Θα μπορούσε όμως κανείς ν’ αντιτάξει πως αυτός ο συλλογισμός δίνει άφεση και στον εχθρό σου.
Who would have thought and indeed Arthur would never have guessed how complex and dangerous life would become by guessing the weight of a cake.From this moment Arthur is followed, challenged and ultimately tested by dark forces who want something he may have.
The book - my first by Graham Greene - was enjoyable and moved along with a interesting story that kept me reading.
If thrillers are your thing with a hark back to the dark, unsettling yet atmospheric days of the Blitz then this little book, by one of Britain's most praised authors, is worth the time to read.
بسیاری وزارت ترس را از آثار مهم و زیبای گرین میدانند.این کتاب شامل ۴ بخش است :۱.
کتاب چهارم : انسان کامل داستان در مورد شخصی به نام آرتور رو است که از مسابقه ای در یک میهمانی یک کیک میبرد و وارد ماجرایی میشود..بخشی از داستان :رو به فکر موش مرده و مرد پلیس افتاد و بعد به همه طرف نگاه کرد و در چهره مردم ، در محکمه شلوغ ، همه جا بازتاب حالت وحشتناک رحم را دید ؛ چهره قاضی خمیده بود اما رو میتوانست آثار رحم را حتی در انگشتان پیر قاضی که با قلم بازی میکردند بازبیند.
اما بزرگترین شورها رحم است.
Since I posted about this book in tandem with another by Graham Greene, once again I'll link to my reading journal rather than try to split them up here. Don't worry -- no spoilers, no long plot details. I loved this book and if you are able to focus more on character more than on plot, you'll discover why. http://www.crimesegments.com/2017/03/...
In that case,’ Rowe said, ‘I keep the cake because you see I guessed three pounds five the first time.
Written in 1943, Greene combines elements of mystery and espionage and spices them up with gritty noir and anxieties lived out by the characters against the back-drop of war time London, where trust is mandatory but seldom warranted.Welcome to Greeneland!"A phrase of Johns’ came back to mind about a Ministry of Fear.
It was a Ministry as large as life to which all who loved belonged.
If one loved one feared."
A man pursued by unknown forces through WWII-era London during the Blitz, never sure of who he can trust or, at times, even of his own identity. Greene's only WWII-era novel, published while he was working with MI6, is a study of oppressive fear and paranoia that is similar to the later works of Philip K Dick. The dark storyline, with a mid-book twist not unlike that in David Lynch's underappreciated Lost Highway, make this a book that may be appreciated more than it is enjoyed.
***SPOILERS ALERT***It is amazing how much Greene packs into a 200 page novel.
Every time I finish reading a Graham Greene novel, I feel like I have read a really large book, even though most of his books are only 150-300 pages long.
But soon, Rowe begins to feel that people are out to steal the cake from him.
The Ministry of Fear is vintage Graham Greene.
And nobody can write erotic scenes like Greene.
There are achingly beautiful passages which describes Rowe's feelings when he realizes that he has no friends left and hence nobody to ask for help.
We're in London, it's World War II, and Arthur Rowe, the book's main character, is lured out of his apartment and across the street by a church carnival.
He goes in the hope of recapturing a little happiness.Here's the thing; sad, gentle Arthur Rowe is a murderer.
His girl wonders if he isn't better off this way, having forgotten the terrible crime he has committed.In the end, Arthur recovers his memory, recovers the microfilm, and gets the girl, and yet, the happy ending is a lie, predicated on lies.
And classy too as it is from the era when you actually didn't have to read long descriptions of or "see" guts or brain matter.
I'd read it before, maybe more than 3 decades ago, as I have other Graham Greene.
It is not an easy read.
But it does stand the test of time and is nearly a 5 by past consensus.
But TO ME, this one and nearly all of Greene is a difficult read.
But so circular in language / prose that I feel like I had to work a job to finish it and get the wisdom nugget.
«بدترین قسمت بمباران این است که همچنان ادامه مییابد.»«مسئله این بود که کشتن کسی که دوستش داریم آسانتر از خودکشی است.»«بایست مثل دو دشمن یکدیگر را میپاییدند چون دل به یکدیگر باخته بودند.»*انتشارات علمیفرهنگی کتابهای کلاسیکش را با همان ترجمهی قدیمشان چاپ میکند. مثلا چاپ اول وزرات ترس با ترجمهی پرویز داریوش 1343 است و چاپ دومش - که من خریدهام - 1394. قیمتش هم ارزانتر از آنی است که نشر چشمه زده است.کتاب گرین صرفا یک رمان معمایی نیست؛ گرین حرفهایش را دربارهی زندگی و جنگ و عذابوجدان و امید، در خلال دا
«بدترین قسمت بمباران این است که همچنان ادامه می‌یابد.»«مسئله این بود که کشتن کسی که دوستش داریم آسان‌تر از خودکشی است.»«بایست مثل دو دشمن یکدیگر را می‌پاییدند چون دل به یکدیگر باخته بودند.»*انتشارات علمی‌فرهنگی کتاب‌های کلاسیکش را با همان ترجمه‌ی قدیمشان چاپ می‌کند.
مثلا چاپ اول وزرات ترس با ترجمه‌ی پرویز داریوش 1343 است و چاپ دومش - که من خریده‌ام - 1394.
قیمتش هم ارزان‌تر از آنی است که نشر چشمه زده است.کتاب گرین صرفا یک رمان معمایی نیست؛ گرین حرف‌هایش را درباره‌ی زندگی و جنگ و عذاب‌وجدان و امید، در خلال داستان می‌گنجاند و همین به او جایگاهی فراتر از یک داستان‌گوی ماهر می‌دهد.حین خواندن وزرات ترس، فضای داستان را شبیه به حس و حال فیلم مرد سوم یافتم، و این نشان می‌دهد کارول رید چه کارگردان کار-درستی است!3.5/5
I really like this subgenre of thrillers - where an innocent bystander gets involved with espionage or criminals by mistake or accident. Graham Greene has created a masterpiece of this type including the romance with someone who might not be trustworthy... or is she? Read it and find out!Even though Greene himself didn't take his thrillers as serious writing, his skill with words is evident throughout this novel. Just one example: "Her voice was dry like an old portrait: the social varnish was c
I really like this subgenre of thrillers - where an innocent bystander gets involved with espionage or criminals by mistake or accident. Graham Greene has created a masterpiece of this type including the romance with someone who might not be trustworthy... or is she? Read it and find out!Even though Greene himself didn't take his thrillers as serious writing, his skill with words is evident throughout this novel. Just one example:
  "Her voice was dry like an old portrait: the social varnish was cracking."
There is humour, there is a excellent setting in the claustrophobic evocation of the London Blitz, there is a psychological element and because this is Greene, there is an examination of guilt and blame, and excellent writing.It would be too much of a spoiler to say more about the plot, so I will concentrate on what makes a Greene thriller a cut above most of the genre, the writing and the introspection formed by the author's catholicism.Greene's writing is famously cinematic, most of his books and all the 'entertainments' almost come with an introductory note offering to adapt them for the screenplay.
I think there is a certain compact between writers and readers of books which are not considered avante-garde or experimental...that for them to be considered well-written, there are thousands of small, unnoticeable conventions that should be followed, and when the reader is surprised because of any particular plot twist, it is imperitive that he or she be surprised in all the usual ways.
There's a lot more for such a slim book--probably more than what would stand up to more than cursory examination, but like I said, I was entertained.
He writes in terms of feelings and emotions and he understands how these almost-spiritual elements of the human condition can change and coexist all within a moment.
The Ministry of Fear is all this.The story could be considered a simple spy novel that is set in London during the Blitz of WWII.
There are agents, and bombing raids and traditional themes of "us against them." But to read The Ministry of Fear at this level would be to miss Greene's writing altogether.
The spy novel is merely the conveyance mechanism to splay open and explore very human things.
All of the typical Greene themes are present - guilt, intrigue, ones own responsibility, betrayal, oppression and more, all set against London in the blitz.
The characters are wonderful from the lead Arthur Rowe, the fortune teller, the nazi spies through to the mysterious doctor at the asylum, it all adds up to a wonderful mix of intrigue and mystery - was he really a murderer, or is he imagining it?The writing is wonderful, Greene has a lovely turn of phase, no word is ever wasted and he is an absolute joy to read.
A man with a harrowing past buys a cake during the London blitz and it all goes horribly wrong for a while. While the book is super in many ways my favourite bit is highlighting the sinister undertones that I have long felt at any fete. In this case it is being run by nazi fifth columnists whose love for cake is only matched by their love for needless complexity.
I loved this book. Now to find the film. (No pun intended.)
