https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116344.Wildfire_at_Midnight
When she arrives a couple of major shocks await her: the hotel guests include her ex-husband, Nicholas, and everyone in the hotel is on edge because of the recent murder of an 18 year old girl on the nearby mountain, Blaven.
It'll heal over; everything does, given time enough and a bit of peace." While I agree with pride being a real stumbling block in a relationship, it's a false dichotomy to say that if one partner cheats, the other has to choose between keeping quiet or losing that person.
and he does a decent job of groveling asking for forgiveness in the end (hide spoiler)].Despite these missteps, I do think this is worth reading if you like old-fashioned murder mysteries.
3.5★For me, not one of Stewart's best.That still means a good story with evocative descriptions of Skye - & who wouldn't want to spend time there, especially with the heather in bloom! But I prefer the Stewarts with stronger heroines. The only thing Giannetta had in common with the better Stewart heroines is that she smoked like a chimney. For example, Giannetta found (view spoiler)[ a broach that she believed belonged to a missing climber. Did she hot foot it to the nearest policeman. No, s
But I prefer the Stewarts with stronger heroines.
The only thing Giannetta had in common with the better Stewart heroines is that she smoked like a chimney.
For example, Giannetta found (view spoiler)[ a broach that she believed belonged to a missing climber.
No, she sat down & had a smoke!!!
(hide spoiler)]And after being in extreme peril Giannetta's reward will be a happy ever after with (view spoiler)[ her philandering ex, Nicholas.
Nicholas remains a cardboard figure and I find it hard to believe he will really change.
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Seeking relief from her hectic life as a model as well as the crush for the 1953 coronation, Divorcee Gianetta leaves London for a vacation at rustic resort on the Isle of Skye in Scotland, although she's a bit flummoxed at the surprise appearance of her ex-husband Nicholas Drury as one of the inn’s guests.
This was a fabulous fast paced read and Stewart keeps you guessing to the very end with a doozy of a nail-biting finish set amongst the swirling mists, shifting bogs and the rocky crags of the Cuillin on the Isle of Skye.
The front of my copy of this book says "Terror in the Hitchcock manner...a novel that terrifies as it entertains." That sums it up nicely.
It is perhaps the most Hitchcock in nature of any of her novels.
I am going to be sorry when my quest to revisit all of Mary Stewart's novels is done.
I have so enjoyed the ones I did this year.
I cannot express how these books transport me back in time...they are so new and yet so familiar to me.
I am grateful that they are still available and that I have this opportunity to enjoy them once more.
3.5 starsAre you in the mood for an older ’contemporary’ gothic mystery?
And the setting has windy mountains rather than the commonplace ocean and its cliffs.
Wildfire at Midnight contained the token first-person tense, an unfaithful marriage, the heroine's need to get away and murder.
Now, Gianetta needed some rest and her parents were receptive to this.
Fishing, a form of relaxation, takes place at the oddest hours.
And pleasure is found by scaling the mountains.
If you love some creepiness and a mystery with the feel of an old black and white movie –no Technicolor here!- look for this vintage short story of suspense.
My second Mary Stewart novel.
Naturally, no one has an alibi and all could be the culprit, giving this story a kind of Agatha Christie style.
Stewart focuses more on the aesthetics of nature and the romance aspect (although here it is firmly secondary to the mystery) while Christie is more into psychology, but both can write tense and thrilling scenes.
The instant Giantta sets foot on the island she knows something is wrong.
When she gets to the hotel she doesn't have a chance to take it easy before she finds out that a ghastly mureder had been committed and that her ex-husband, Nicolas Durey is on the island, in her hotel.
Then Giantta goes alone up the mountain and the fog comes rolling down upon her, cutting her off from daffy and escape.
I feel I should have guessed who the murderer was, there were In-Your-Face clues, but I still thought, no it's not really him/her.
So pretty spooky because there's no one to trust.I loved the atmosphere of this novel, the writer really penned the area perfectly~ the obliterating mists that engulf within seconds, treacherous mountainsides and shivering bogs; Celtic superstitions and (in my case) shrieking anticipation.It was a book where I had the killer pegged, then I didn't, then I did.
All around a 5 star read!CONTENT:SEX: NoneVIOLENCE: There are murders (described after the fact)PROFANITY: MildPARANORMAL ELEMENTS: Not really.
While I don't always mind the description in Mary Stewart's books, I did find it rather boring at times in this one.
That mentality really irks me!Mary Stewart could write some really edge of your seat suspenseful scenes and that's the number one reason I like her books and Wildfire at Midnight did not disappoint in that way.
The one thing Airs Above the Ground had going for it that this book doesn't is that I felt like the main character was a bit smarter and more resourceful.
While the prose itself has her usual elegance & descriptive flair, the plot was simplistic & the characters were flat -- especially the narrator Gianetta.
MS's heroines are normally sharp as tacks & on their toes re: suspicious happenings & romantic intrigue; they're not fooled by bland excuses & obvious red herrings, even if they're playing along in the eyes of the other characters.
She also does very little to contribute to solving the mystery, which is important for gothic/romantic suspense gals.Gianetta isn't alone in her flatness, though.
I've read only two books now by Mary Stewart but I have a good sense of her style.
This story unfolds along the same lines as This Rough Magic.
Stewart is worth reading just for the physical descriptions of surroundings and mood created and this is no different.
Like admiring a beautiful painting, you can not just walk by.I may hesitate to read more of her work only because the dark ominous tone and violence are a bit too much for me but I will not fault her for my preferences.
If you enjoy being transported and are a fan of classic murder mystery and poetic prose, then run (don't walk) to Mary Stewart.
Wildfire at Midnight isn’t one of my favourite Stewart novels, and indeed the sense of dread and atmosphere in the book makes it perhaps a touch darker than the others, especially with the moral conflict in the last part where Gianetta thinks she knows who did the crime.The crime itself is pretty chillingly awful; I can’t remember if any of Stewart’s other novels features a mentally ill antagonist, but that’s how it winds up in this one.
But it’s Mary Stewart: the writing is atmospheric, the heroine is self-sufficient, and the ending is, for the heroine at least, a happy one.One thing I would like to know, from other readers — there’s a scene early on where Gianetta is talking to the actress, Marcia.
The best chase and hide scene ever, this book is worth the read for the big stalking scene with the bad guy and the h alone, fortunately the build up to the big scene is pretty good too. Tho the romance was sub-par but typical of the time period.
Stewart was such a capable writer that she could've written a textbook and made it worth reading. This one wasn't her best, but it was still very good, indeed.
This one fit into my PopSugar Reading Challenge, but unfortunately it was blah.
Not bad – Mary Stewart never wrote anything bad – but definitely not her best book.Unlike her other romantic fiction, which usually occurs in some glamorous sunny locations like France or Greece, this one takes the readers to the remote, cloud-shrouded Scottish island of Skye.
After a while, I started skipping them and rapidly turning the pages unread to get to the good parts – the action.
Too much of anything is never good, neither in fiction nor in real life.
The news in 2014 that Mary Stewart had passed away at the age of 94 got me into rereading her classic romantic suspense books written mostly in the late 50s, the 60s and 70s.
Stewart's Nine Coaches Waiting (Rediscovered Classics) and all of Georgette Heyer's work were what set me, as a young teen, onto a lifetime of romance reading.
And, as of 2017, almost all of her work is available in e-format.This particular book of Stewart's from 1956 is one I had never read and is an enjoyable mystery set in the Scottish Hebrides.
I recently finished this book after picking it up from the same old bookshelf as I found Animal Farm in!
And it was just as good as Animal Farm, despite being a different genre.Wildfire at Midnight is a classic mystery 'who dunnit' novel involving murder and suspicion.
However, Gianetta is not a marvelous detective like in Murder on the Orient Express and needs some help from the police to work out what's happening on the Island of Skye.
I secretly love novels about people going on holiday and bad things happening to them in some secluded spot.
Who knows!Anyway, in that vein, Wildfire At Midnight is about a young fashion model who goes on holiday to the remote and beautiful Scottish island of Skye.
However, it’s weak on the red herrings and ‘gotcha!’ moments that make good mysteries really enjoyable.According to Wikipedia, Mary Stewart “invented” the romantic suspense genre and, well, Wildfire was certainly better than other “sexy mysteries” I’ve read, where either the romance or the mystery seems like an afterthought.
Gianetta Brook, a lovely young woman with a successful London modeling career and a heartbreaking divorce behind her comes to the isle of Skye for a much needed vacation.
Instead of peace and quiet, she is shocked by the arrival of Nicholas, her ex husband and then then by the knowledge that there has been a horrific ritualistic murder of a young girl involving the Old Religion's tradition of setting wildfire in honor of the Beltane.
Mary Stewart's love of nature, her description of the majesty of the towering mountains, the misty bogs, and lochs juxtaposed with the creepiness of the ritualistic murders make for a suspenseful and well written story.
Mary Stewart's mystery/romances are my chicklit.
So when it's raining out and I'm feeling lazy and such, they're pretty much perfect for my mood.
I curled up with this one today and polished it off in an hour.
4.5 stars Once again, Stewart wows me with breathtaking suspense and stunning scenery. This murder mystery, set amongst the misty and craggy Scottish Hebrides, has to be her scariest work. With one cliff-hanger (sometimes literally) after another, it was near impossible to put down.the time: 1953, the week of Hillary & Tenzing's Everest summit and Elizabeth II's coronationthe cigarette count: 28+
There's relatively little romance in it, too, but that worked fine for me, because the mystery was gripping, constantly rolling onwards, as the situation grew ever more tense.
This time, because the romance was between a formerly married couple, I thought it would have more depth and believability than the other Mary Stewarts I read, where people tended to fall in love rather abruptly and with improbable strength.
And while in the end there is a suitably sweet scene of reconciliation, and I am always for married couples working out their differences and trying to find a way to be together, here we're not given much to hold on to.
Such a wonderfully atmospheric book!
Mary Stewart's strong points seem to be descriptions and atmosphere.
I found the characters interesting, and pretty well rounded.
Initially there are quite a number of characters to learn, but you are quickly engaged and can differentiate easily.
Loved the suspenseful parts of this book (which are many)!
After reading, I'm not sure I'd categorize this as romantic suspense, or gothic romance.
More of a mystery-suspense with hints of romance.
It's actually kind of hard to peg this one easily into a single genre!
Recommend to anyone who loves a well written Suspense and all Mary Stewart fans!
This is a fantastic, scary mystery novel.
Much scarier (I think) than any of the other Mary Stewart mysteries.
It takes place at a hotel near this mountain where people keep getting murdered and the main character is a girl who has recently been divorced.
It's told in the first person, and the girl's ex-husband shows up at the hotel but she's torn between her old feelings for him and her new feelings for this handsome new guy that she's met at the hotel.
I give this story a thumbs up for being unpredictable, scary, entertaining, and extremely well written.
Nobody writes in this vein quite like Mary Stewart, vintage romantic suspense. Quality all the way. Every few years I revisit this author's work, it's timeless. I loved the characters, the wonderful descriptions of the bleak and dour Scottish countryside .......and the mystery was engrossing and seamlessly delivered.Time and money well spent.
I have been a fan of Mary Stewart's beautiful prose and romantic thriller stories since I was in high school, nabbing my mother's copies off the shelves.
Immediately I sank into the pleasure of revisiting much loved characters and settings with noticing new details brought to my attention by the lapse of time and being a fast, skimming reader.Although Stewart always wrote romantic thrillers I'd forgotten how many different settings she used - reportedly always visiting in person to be sure she got the atmosphere and details right.
This suspenseful story has atmosphere as thick as the mists and fogs the author describes creeping over the landscape of Skye. Well-crafted descriptions vividly evoke the hills, mountains, rivers, swamps, and weather. There are also scenes with carefully building tension that had me on the edge of my seat. But, the story was weakened by a heroine whose motivations are tweaked around in unrealistic ways to fit the requirements of the plot and a large cast of sketchily described characters, including the heroine’s love interest.
Mary Stewart's plucky heroines are indeed usually rescued by a man, and a love interest at that, but I don't hold that against her.
I loved the story, with its references to Frazier's Golden Bough and even the unflattering overtones of human sacrifice within pagan religions (it's not like there were Wiccans running around back then), and its mythic high notes, but most of all its gorgeous, sweeping descriptions of the wild Scottish mountains and rivers.Mary Stewart is the only romance writer whom I really love and follow, and I think it's more because I love her travel writer street cred than the actual romances.
Perfect wintery read. This was atmospheric, charming and the sort of book I'd love to go back to in future foggy rainy days.
Une sympathique lecture avec quelques moments de vrai suspense haletant et une belle ambiance (sur l’île de Skye). J’ai néanmoins trouvé l’intrigue criminelle un peu trop simple à deviner.
