https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93971.Power_of_Awareness
FIRST READING FINISHED 7/12/12: One of the best books I've ever read.
REALLY good and highly recommended!REREAD 10/28/14: Still one of my favorite books.
Create a burning desire for what you want, then act as though the wish is fulfilled.
Short book, lots of thought provoking chapters.THIRD READING 5/8/16: Well, it seems every two years I wind up reading this book.
I first heard about it when I read Wayne Dyer's book "Wishes Fulfilled", which is also a great book and borrows heavily from this earlier work of Neville's.
If you're unfamiliar with Neville, this is probably the best book of his to start with.
It's very good.
I enjoyed reading this book. These days, I can only read what I am truly guided to read... and upon reading this book, I was amazed at how it touched on so much that is up-front with me right now. However, this ought not to be amazing... as when I read what I am truly guided to.... it speaks to me right here and now. thank you.
If you want to know the secret behind "The Secret" then this book is for you! Nivelle wrote about the Secret long before the movie and the book were out... this no fluff book written in 1952 says it all... a life changing experience!
One story about a young man who imagined himself honorably discharged from the army turns out to be his own experience.One thing or advice is repeated over and over: you have to act and feel like what you desire has already been fulfilled; thinking, wishing, imagining it is not enough.
It is not as easy as it may sound and cannot be repeated and emphasized enough.As the bible is not relevant to me, I would have enjoyed this book even more if there were fewer bible quotes in it.
But I could just skip those pages and enjoy the rest.
Interesting readI enjoy this type of literature. It makes sense to me. But I learned to keep my thoughts and feelings to myself regarding this type of material. This new age stuff is controversial to some. The religious type say it's from the devil and the scholarly, intellectual type consider it crazy, crackpot literature. That won't stop me from reading and studying the works of a great philosopher like Goddard. This was a very interesting read. I look forward to reading more from this author.
Neville explains how you can consciously create your future by visualization and the power of assumption - by assuming that your wish is fulfilled and feeling as you would, were it fulfilled. Great book. He has a high level of consciousness. The book may be thought old-fashioned, having many references to the Bible. It appears that the content of the Bible expresses spiritual truths about abundance, creating your own reality, etc. in the form of metaphors.
I liked the book, but I didn't love it. It felt a little dated to me, but I can see how when it was originally published, this could have been a ground-breaking way to think, especially for the Western audiences. He talks about the Law of Assumption, which is similar to what's more popularly known as the Law of Attraction now. I'm also aware that this is a favorite for many people, so this is just my 2 cents :)
This is as easy to understand as new age thought gets. I find this particularly impressive because the book was originally published in 1952. Neville is timeless.
His books about attracting/manifesting abundance are amazing!!! I am rereading this one for about my fourth time.
What I liked most about this book was the information provided in the least amount of pages. The Power of Awareness, in my opinion, is a feel good book, empowering and surprisingly short. Definitely a book that is easy to read and I personally would enjoy re-reading it again as a refresher on what most self-help, mind over matter books provide. I took my time enjoying this, and it will be read again.
This book is not one to read and review, instead to learn from day by day forever, at least that's how it seems right now, so I'm gonna put it in the "read" file. If I ever feel like writing a review of it, I will.
The wisdom contained in this book is amazing.
Fantastic!
Life-changingly good.
An amazingly powerful and liberating book that found me by chance.
Being aware of your circumstances gives you the power to change things. This book shows you how in a simple yet sophisticated method.
The trick is using the link between imagination and reality to imagine what you desire so thoroughly that you make it so.I believe the basic premise that reality is an expression of consciousness, of awareness.
And I love the picture he paints of each of us being a fountain for the expression of that consciousness.
But I had a problem with using that fact to create what we fervently desire without regard to any larger picture, either in terms of goodness or in terms of there being many of us in the world, each with our own awareness, our own imagination.
I'm intrigued by any read that teaches positive psychology, self-understanding and the art of manifestation. This one has topped my list! First published in 1952, Neville took me through his profound, yet simple teachings with the utmost ease and interest. I was particularly impressed with the "Imagination" section. I've even gifted a copy to both my young adult kids.
This is the second book by Neville (Goddard). Many of the same ideas, but just as intriguing. A good book for anyone attracted to the idea of manifesting your future.
Neville does a great job at intellectually tackling that which mystics have been saying down the ages.
How to awaken...then Read, "Your Faith is your Fortune"...this will blow your mind.
absolutely wonderful read started reading second time got side tracked; might read again another time
"This one thing I do, forgetting those things that are behind, I press toward the mark."
Clear message, very easy good read!!!!
everthing
There’s special power and clarity in Neville Goddard’s writings and talks, compared to any other metaphysical teacher I’ve read.
It’s been a long time since I’ve has any interest in reading anything apart from Neville Goddard when it comes to matters of mind over matter.The Power of Awareness is one of his bestsellers, written in his later years.
I assume that books written in the later years would show you how well the life of a ‘new thought’ teacher has been for him/her.
Life changing.
Powerfully invigorating.
Try it.
Your own success with the method will be the only evidence you require.
You feel marvelous daydreaming about your deepest desires.
Not longingly, but presently as though you are living and breathing your own highest achievement.
Allowing yourself the child-like freedom to live in them.
Persist in the wonderful feeling and it just might work.
This is the next chapter for humanity.For all of us to step into this together, from love.If it is possible to make oneself sick with worry, then it figures it must be possible to make oneself powerful with all the feelings of highest accomplishment.
This book is about self transformation and to be transformed, the whole basis of your thoughts must change.
According to the author, all transformation begins with an intense, burning desire to be transformed."Be like the moth in search of his idol, the flame.
Just as the moth in his desire to know the flame was willing to destroy himself, so must you.
You must be conscious of being healthy if you are to know what health is.
You must be conscious of being secure if you are to know what security is.
This metaphysical writer and lecturer touts a philosophy that may be hard to accept: that God is nothing other than the human imagination.
He puts a twist on the biblical verse, "If you believe, you will receive whatever you ask for in prayer." The twist is that instead of traditional prayer, you must visualize exactly who will be when the belief becomes reality, going to bed every night with this visualization in your mind, and you will eventually become that person.
On the way, you need to take control of your mind and your imagination.
Reality is internal, not external.
This book is a certain kind of special. It helps you understand the power of assumption and how YOU, change everything in the world, based on your thought. You are the (It) that controls your destiny. A good friend of mine recommended this book to me and I am so glad that he shared the experience he had from it. I highly encourage anyone to pick this book up and learn more about how you influence everything.
