https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9919.A_Christmas_Memory
After my wife read these thoughts, she pointed out the importance of marking the time of thoughts in connection with the events of our lives.December 24, 2011Perhaps I should say this is not so much the review of a book, but the response A Christmas Memory still draws from me each year when I read it.
They are slipcased editions of "The Thanksgiving Visitor" and a "Christmas Memory." I have taken them to the bedside table because it is time to read them once more.
"Oh my, it’s fruitcake weather!"This has to be one of the sweetest, most nostalgic of little stories I’ve ever read.
Buddy’s special Christmas memory captures the pleasure of preparing fruitcakes with Miss Sook, creating homemade gifts for one another, and sharing the companionship of a beloved dog.
What I delighted in most about A Christmas Memory is that Capote tells the story in such a way that I feel like I’ve ‘been there, done that’ – although I’ve never in my life baked a fruitcake!
I don’t even like fruitcake – perhaps because I’ve never tasted one made with such love (and just the right whiskey, to boot!).
I remember so little of my Christmases, and like Truman Capote I was given mostly clothes.Sook's Fruitcake Recipe Sook's Famous "Christmas Memory" Fruitcake 2 1/2 lb Brazil nuts 2 1/2 lb White and dark raisins; -mixed 1/2 lb Candied cherries 1/2 lb Candied pineapple 1 lb Citron 1/2 lb Blanched almonds 1/2 lb Pecan halves 1/2 lb Black walnuts 1/2 lb Dried figs 1 tb Nutmeg 1 tb Cloves 2 tb Grated bitter chocolate 8 oz Grape jelly 8 oz Grape juice 8 oz Bourbon whisky 1 tb Cinnamon 1 tb Allspice 2 c Butter 2 c Sugar 12 Eggs 4 c Flour Cut the fruits and nuts into small pieces, and coat them with some of the flour.
It was issued in a stand-alone hardcover edition by Random House in 1966, and it has been published in many editions and anthologies since.The largely autobiographical story, which takes place in the 1930s, describes a period in the lives of the seven-year-old narrator and an elderly woman who is his distant cousin and best friend.
منتقدان درباره‌ ی خاطره‌ ای از کریسمس کاپوتی معتقدند که او با این کار زبردستی‌ خویش را در به تصویر کشیدن شخصیت کودکان و بهره‌ گیری‌ از واژه ها و تصاویر دلنشین به اثبات رسانده‌ است.
Actually I’ve read this little sparkling gem for five years in a row,and will have been reading until I have memorized the whole passages.Let me add this;this is one of Haruki Murakami’s favs,and his Japanese translation is great!Good stories easily leap beyond the barrier of languages.It’s an undeniable fact.
We are each other's best friends. I've watched the television special - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oQGEU... - countless times now, so it was impossible to read this without hearing Capote's voice. Imagine a morning in late November. A coming of winter morning more than twenty years ago. This short vignette tells of the last Christmas Capote spent with his friend, a distant, decades older cousin. . . . we have lived together --- well, as long as I can remember. Other people inhabit the hous
We are each other's best friends.
Imagine a morning in late November.
A coming of winter morning more than twenty years ago.
This short vignette tells of the last Christmas Capote spent with his friend, a distant, decades older cousin.
The story begins with Capote's cousin/best friend waking one morning to declare 
Thirty cakes are then baked, and sent to far off places like California and Borneo.
And, of course, one is sent to President Roosevelt.The book ends on Christmas day when the friends exchange gifts, though Capote includes asides that hint at sad and somber events in the future.
I loved the premise which is actually a reflection of the author’s own life and is set in the time of the Great Depression.
A grown man is reminiscing on a childhood Christmas memory with his best friend.
What makes their friendship so special is that “Buddy” is only 7 and his best friend is his elderly female, childlike cousin whom he had lived with as a child.
There are so many wonderful details packed into this story that make it funny and beautiful and sad, but the ending is so touching.
It makes one want to create special traditions/memories to be passed down through the generations.
Well, finished tonight with my 10 year old. Note to self....last 2 pages don't sit well. Lots of tears shed by my daughter and I'm trying not to let my voice crack with emotion. Easy to get invested in Miss Sook and Buddy! Quote by daughter "so much love".
I can remember first hearing this story read to me when I was in 5th grade.
It's my favorite Christmas tradition - every Christmas Eve, when I finally retire, I take my worn copy of Capote's A Christmas Memory, snuggle into bed, and transport to a different time.
I have an old video of A Christmas Memory narrated by Capote, so I continue to hear his distinct high-pitched voice speak the story as I read.
Every time I read, I discover something new.
Truman Capote wrote a beautiful Christmas story based on some special times he experienced as a seven-year-old.
He was living with older relatives including his beloved sixty-something cousin, Miss Sook.
She was a little childlike and sheltered from the world.
However, Miss Sook knew how to have fun and had a generous heart.
He recounts the holiday events of making fruitcakes and homemade gifts, and decorating the Christmas tree with their own artwork.
His older cousin put humor, warmth, and love into the special times they shared during the Christmas season.
This is a heartwarming gem that will bring a smile to both children and adults.
She sat on the edge of her desk, and she held up a well worn copy of it, and told us that each year before Thanksgiving she reads the entire book (there are three novellas included).
The next day, we filed in, she sat on her desk, and she read us the next one.
I think I wrote a report on it, because the day before Christmas break, Mrs. O'Brien gave me a hardcover copy of the book, and told me she was so happy that I loved it like she did.Fast forward (gulp) 20 some years.
This short story is the best Christmas literature.
I have read this bittersweet story so many times that I’ve lost count.
And every time I cry.
Tru and Sook were steadfast friends until his unreliable, self-absorbed mother removed him from the only home he’d ever known only to ship him off to military school a few years later when she tired of him.P.S.: Reading Tru & Nelle by G.
Neri will make you love “A Christmas Memory” even more.
A lovely little memory, made my cry at the end for all the lost loves and memories before life takes us all beyond childhood into cold, regimented adulthood. As an autobiography, this is "frankly" true by Capote long before he was taken up into the modern New York vortex. Very sweet, authentic and a perfect read for the holiday season.
It is an unforgettable portrait of an enduring friendship between two cousins, Miss Sook Falk -- who is in her 60s -- and Buddy – who is seven.
She is still a child.”Buddy helps his one and only friend Sook in making fruitcakes.Mr Capote writes simple sentences but these are ones that really affect you or touch you.
Queenie is trotting beside it now.”The action of "A Christmas Memory": Fruitcakes.I am sure this is the best Christmas story that I have ever read.
I enjoyed every word of it.Buddy and Sook are stopped by a rich woman who wants to buy their Christmas tree.I am sure memories make the best stories.
Vale aclarar que este libro contiene en realidad tres historias (“El visitante de Acción de gracias” y “Una navidad”).
Desde entonces y cada año descubro nuevos aires y sensaciones que me produce esta linda historia y sus lindos personajes: Buddy, la anciana prima y la perrita Queenie.Me encanta leer esta historia en esta época porque adquiere un carácter especial y me evoca recuerdos que valoro mucho de mi niñez, como las tardes soleadas de diciembre con mis primos, cuando mi abuela nos hacía manjares (un dulce de leche con una capa crocante y deliciosa) que disfrutábamos después de jugar.Con una narración sencilla, en extremo evocativa y sensible, Truman Capote logra removernos recuerdos, sensaciones y sentimientos como toda gran historia.
5***** and a ❤This autobiographical novella is a wonderful, touching story of family love.
The date listed is when our book club discussed it, but I've had this book for ages and I read it every December on my birthday.Update: December 2010This autobiographical story is based on Capote’s own childhood, living with relatives in Alabama.
The reader feels the anticipation of a child, smells the piney woods, shivers in the crisp morning, and is comforted in the warmth of love.
His writing is never so brilliant as when he is mining his childhood for stories such as this.
Truman Capote really knows how to write a Christmas story. I ordered his other, One Christmas. I have been collecting the best of Christmas stories for a year, and his book is among them. Also try The Thanksgiving Visitor by him. And A Cup of Christmas Tea. A Child's Christmas in Wales, A Christmas Card, and Christmas in Plains. If anyone knows of anymore that are great please let me know.
I love, Love, Love this book! I only had one problem with the book: the three stories are non sequential. I believe this is my favorite Christmas story this year.
It also holds a bigger than average dollop of Southern character and nuance.
Kind of like the "Bless Your Heart" connotation but in a much wider and deeper sense in the message.And all of that, beyond the warmth of affection for the beloved, does come through in all of his writing- even that which was of a child nature and practical category Christmas holiday read.It makes you almost always know that "the others" who never "get" the inclusions of the actions, not just the trite words people use to echo their own faith or conviction beliefs, are truly missing out.
Capote almost bring you to tears in just the few minutes it takes to reach the ending, yet somehow reverse that into a bitter-sweet happiness in the last few sentences.
It's a reminder that whenever you're sad, maybe you should really be grateful instead, that you had such great memories and blessings in the past, instead of being bitter the present situation is different.The ending reminded me of The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly in that way--what felt like an emotional masterpiece to an otherwise so, so story.
Warm, humorous, and with a soupcon of melancholy. Capote's prose is delectable and filigreed, and speaks volumes than what's overt on the page. A morning well-spent.
Capote captures something beautiful in the relationship between a 7-year-old boy and his much older cousin.
Most of us know this essence and how it feels; however, Capote makes us see it, feel it, offers us in the form of a story.
The story suggests to us what matters most in life, how even small things could give so much pleasure because they are real and genuine, and how, equally, small things can damage us deeply even by the so-called well-intentioned 'well-wishers and concerned human beings.'In the story, the boy is just plucked out of his cherished territory and sent elsewhere.
As a little girl I had a special friendship with an aunt. She and I connected. We took the greatest comfort in the simplest of things. Miss Sook reminded me of a time long gone. Family get togethers. Straightforward happiness. Before life and all of its knocks erased my innocence. Remember a time. Calming in its affect really. Believe.
In spite of their poverty, seven-year-old Buddy and his eccentric elderly cousin celebrate the small pleasures of life - gathering ingredients for the annual fruitcake baking, tramping through the woods in search of the perfect tree, and exchanging hand-made gifts on Christmas Day. Delightful watercolour illustrations by Beth Peck bring the story to life before the reader's eyes.
În preajma sărbătorilor de iarnă am avut ocazia să o lecturez într-o ediție bilingvă pe care Editura Arthur a propus-o pentru toți copiii care ar trebui să descopere o poveste emoționantă.Personajele noastre principale sunt un băiețel și prietena sa cea mai bună, o bătrânică care este o verișoară distantă.
De-a lungul fiecărui an aceștia încearcă diverse metode pentru a câștiga câțiva bănuți din care mai apoi să își cumpere cadouri de Crăciun sau zile de naștere.Banii nu te fac bogatSărăcia în care trăiesc băiatul și bătrâna nu îi fac să se simtă inferiori, dar ei au cu siguranță o dorință de a-și putea oferi unul altuia un trai mai bun.Scrisă cu o emoție aparte, O amintire de Crăciun este o poveste de viață care ne învață cât de importante sunt legăturile între oameni în momentele grele pe care destinul ți le pune în cale.
This is a story of love and memories.
Just beautiful in its' simplicity and unforgettable in how much it makes you remember your past Christmases.
It reminded me so much of the special people like my Grandmother and her friends that had such a lasting impact on my life.
It reminded me of crocheting and baking cakes and rolls with her at Christmas - gifts for neighbors and friends.
I still miss Grandmother and especially at Christmas.
She had an old Santa that always hung from her front door that was purchased at a local dollar store before I was born.
Best Christmas StoryI read Capote’s Christmas memory every year. He captures the landscape of the South and his ‘friend’ is so familiar as if she were part of my family
“Oh my…it’s fruitcake weather!” begins this story in a homey little kitchen in rural Alabama.
Seven-year-old Buddy and his dotty, 60-something cousin begin their Christmas fruitcake-baking ritual foraging for windfall pecans in a nearby grove.
“How foolish I am!...I’ve always thought a body would have to be sick and dying before they saw the Lord.
I’ll wager at the very end a body realizes the Lord has already shown Himself.
(And personally, I’ve always thought fruitcakes get a bad rap.)
Truman Capote's A Christmas Memory is a short, beautifully written story by one of my favorite authors.
The pictures are as wonderful as the text.Here is how Capote introduces the relationship between the woman and the boy:I am seven; she is sixty-something.
It comes out in the way they speak to each other, dance together, and deal with the other people in the house, who often think they act inappropriately.The book covers their relationship until the boy goes away.
The book only took about an hour to read and it had the power to bring out my own Christmas memories.
I am always looking for books to read in the upcoming Christmas season.
Perhaps a better title would have been "A Christmas memory -- some sweet but alot bitter and unhappy".
Buddy, as the boy is called, and his friend escape the unhappiness of the house by withdrawing to themselves.The sweet memories include making fruitcakes to send to strangers who have entered their lives, searching for the perfect Christmas tree, and enjoying belonging to each other and loving each other.
However, the book ends when Buddy is sent away to school and his cousin eventually dies.
After this Christmas memory, he never sees her again.
