https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145947.A_Whack_on_the_Side_of_the_Head
This is a book to always come back to. When I am in a slump and not feeling "it" I turn to Roger Von Oech. A mentor 16 years ago highly recommended this book. It is one of the well worn books on my shelf!
I read this book in a couple of hours.It's an older book that has been on my shelves for an age.
It has comments by people relevant at the time.
Before we started truly believing that Americans are no longer innovative industrialists.This book made it clear to me what thinking has made it so.This book also made it clear how I've participated in the way of thinking that prohibits true innovation.It's a marvel.
Everyone needs to pick up a copy of this book and read it.
You will want to start every meeting with puzzles after reading this book.
It's sort of a self-help book for people who want to be more creative.
And if you're truly in a position where constantly reinventing your approach to become essentially institutionally (or even industrially) creative, this book has a lot of great approaches.For the rest of us...
Perhaps rather than "more creative", what I truly desire in my own projects is "more artistry", which this book doesn't really address.Anyway: it's got some nifty thoughts.
It'll sit in the back of my mind for a while, and I probably won't trade the book away, so that I can come back to it in the future.
Of all the "how to" books I've read, this is the one that really stuck with me.
I often think of the simple principles so vividly presented in this book, and employ them at every opportunity.
Stuck in a rut?
Drive a different way to work, take a different set of stairs, shop the grocery store in the opposite direction of the way you normally go.
For example, a revolving door as a merry go round.
I read this book more than 20 years ago, but still smile every time I enter the "merry go round" at the office.
This was honestly an awesome book I read after it was given to me from a work colleague. It helps you look at things differently, problem solve differently, etc. I think this would be a great tool for anyone in any field of work- from real estate, to legal work, to being a stay at home mom. It's an easy read and one that can be read quickly-
This is a wonderful book for anyone - teachers, office workers, students, salesmen - anyone can get something helpful out of spending a little time with this book. It gives you methods for looking at problems from outside the box - WAY outside the box in some cases! But it can help you break out of the, "we've always done it this way..." solutions to problems!
Loved that one. I bought a few extra copies and gave to a few of my most creative friends. This book gives a few tricks to unlock creative potential, as well as guidelines on how and when to use your creativity.
Recommended for everyone. If God is the Creator and we're made in His image, then to be creative is to be more like God. This book is a fun and practical guide to awakening and encouraging your creative side.
Lots of tips and strategies for jump-starting your students' creativity.
This is a classic. I don't know what else to say, but definitely read this if you intend to have a creative career.
An excellent book filled with practical exercises on how to unleash creative thinking. It's a book that merits more than one thoughtful reading.
Lots of good ideas on how to be creative and improve your creative thinking.
This book was included in my book: The 100 Best Business Books of All Time. www.100bestbiz.com
I re-read it every few years. It makes me feel centered and is a wellspring of great ideas.
Very approachable in that you can basically open to any chapter and jump right in. Also check out the "Creative Whack Pack" cards, great for brainstorming.
I read a fair amount of posts on LinkedIn, Medium and other sources on productivity and creative thinking (which is probably why I don't get around to being productive).
So, when I see that this book, written 35 years ago, espouses the same themes of listening to your unconscious, bending the rules, being willing to be foolish, and so many other axioms of accessing your creative self, I understand that these contemporary scribes have been drawing on the original gangster of innovative thinking, A Whack on the Side of the Head.The prevailing "fail faster, fail often" ethos that's got the throat of Silicon Valley has its primordial soup here too.
Get whacked!

It's a quick read, and probably a useful refresher. I didn't enjoy it much, mostly because I'm currently experiencing a creative block and reading this book just made me uncomfortable. I think that's good and healthy, hence the three stars, but it just felt like forcing myself to eat my vegetables at the moment. Definitely dogeared a few pages as reminders to myself though, and hopefully I can get out of my rut soon.
Truly one of a kind from all of the "how to" book i've read so far. The author gives us a chance to play with our mind, that to be more creative you need to become your young-curious-self. To see the problem from a different angle. To seek the answer from an unthinkable place. It was fun. Reading it bring a smile to my face
A nice entertaining book. You get to learn a lot of interesting facts from history that the author has collated to explain the different scenarios in the book. Overall, a good book and a quick read too!
It took me awhile and many different attempts to get through. There is definitely some good and relevant info in it- for problem solving and becoming more creative. It’s just not my flavor of book. But I can see how others would find it very beneficial.
평이 좋아서 읽었는데 별로였다. 헤라클레이토스 명언집을 구해서 읽어봐야겠다는 정도.
Fun, fast and innovative. I love the drawings and the ideas are pretty good too. I highly recommend it.
Pretty cool ideas for stimulating creativity - worth the read
It contains actionable advises nearly on each page. Read it and go create.
Rather disappointing. I am not sure why people still recommend this book. Most of the information is commonplace now. Dated.
a very easy read..
Creativity Inspirational to help anyone realize their mind is just as capable as the greatest in history you just need to believe it too! :)
The book has some good ideas… Directly from the book (my comments in brackets): The page numbers were not noted. Pg. Quoted Alber Szent – Gyorgy (Nobel): Discovery consists of looking at the same thing as everyone else and thinking something different.  Mental locks: - The right answer That’s not logical Follow the rules Be practicalPlay is frivolous That’s not my area Avoid ambiguity Don’t be foolishTo err is wrong I’m not creative We need the ability to unlearn what we know The danger of habit
Mental locks: - The right answer That’s not logical Follow the rules Be practicalPlay is frivolous That’s not my area Avoid ambiguity Don’t be foolishTo err is wrong I’m not creative	We need the ability to unlearn what we know	The danger of habits is that a person can become a prisoner of familiarity	Children enter school as question marks & leave as periods.
When they encounter them, they usually react by taking the first way out they can find – even if they solve a wrong problem… 	Nothing is more dangerous than an idea when it’s the only one you have.
Reading through the book and then carrying out discussions and role-playing made what can often be a boring chore something to look forward too.
That is unfortunate and in general wrong.
History is replete with instances, some of which are mentioned in this book, of great and revolutionary ideas being spawned from a silly thought or looking at something and thinking about it in a different way.
Companies that were great a decade ago where the decision makers were secure in their business models and lacked creative vision are now the fodder for business books about what can go wrong.
