https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56738.The_New_Strong_Willed_Child
He has completely misunderstood his subject-matter.Dobson's book is also written in a spirit that left me feeling disturbed.
(The last 3 chapters appear to be compassionately written, but on the last page or 2 of the book, he includes a letter from a reader that suggests he didn't go far enough with corporal punishment.
Both are written by Christians, yet Sears' book was written in a spirit of love, understanding and intelligence, Dobson's in a spirit of self-righteousness, effectiveness and adversary.
In chapter 3, it is apparent that Dobson feels uncomfortable with the positive parenting approach because he cannot effectively and intelligently argue against it.
Probably not a book for everyone, but definitely some good pointers on approaching a strong willed child.
I know some people go for a more hands off approach to child raising and this book promotes a much more involved and stricter approach if your child is strong willed.
If you don't like the idea of a suggestion that you might need to lay down the law, then this book will frustrate you.But if you need some help, are at your wits end, and don't know where to turn, this is a good place to start.
Be careful when reading "authoritative" books on the subject of parenting.
Just because a person is a Christian minister does NOT mean he is an expert in child-rearing.
My husband and I were very young when we read this book.
We were parents to three young children.
We followed this book like gospel, including the sections on corporal punishment, even when our inner conscience rebelled.
Because, of course, James Dobson was an eminent Christian Authority.
He was wrong.
For our children, he was wrong.
He will guide us in the appropriate means for guiding the children he blessed us with.
We do not need a Bible of child rearing.
To be honest, it was when my parents forgot to discipline with the book's recommended calmness and explanations(i.e. out of frustration and anger) that I had lingering emotional damage or what could be called a 'bad experience.' Of course, after reading this book, I became the child that could point out to them this failure to follow procedure.
I actually would recommend 'The New Dare To Discipline' book over this one, as I believe it offered a better defining of the difference between Discipline and Punishment.
Ultimately, one needs to take into account that every child is different, and parents need to take the time to assess their needs and motivations individually.
This book tortured me in childhood and then it just enraged me as an adult...this man's control issues are so profound and so ungodly...iron fisted rule is used instead of thought and logic and kindness. And his devotees continue to grow...that's the worst part.
I have six children who have a very wide range of personalities and differ greatly in their level of compliance, but they should still be a part of the family and not someone I am trying to force to do MY will.
I agree that children show many different personalities and varying degrees of compliance at a very young age, but certainly would never slap a 9-month-old and I think parents who "knew" their child was "strong-willed" before they were even born were setting themselves up to treat that child in a manner where they would feed off of that attitude.
I checked this book out at the library (not knowing who James Dobson is -- or rather, having forgotten who he is) under the impression that it was about raising the spirited child in a supportive manner.
What I got was a training manual for raising an unhappy, demoralized, spiritually broken child.
Ugh. You don't tame wild horses by beating them with a stick, and you don't calm small children by beating them over the head with religion.
I feel terribly sorry for all the kids who are raised under this advise (and their parents who will also have to deal with the repercussions).
Over the years, this book has been unfairly maligned. The new edition, especially, is as clear as can be that spanking should only be used in love, without anger, and in very specific circumstances. It also includes facts from scientific studies to back up spanking. (Hint: There's absolutely no proof that spanking causes violent behavior in kids!) But this book is about so much more than spanking. (The topic of spanking doesn't even cover a full chapter!) If your kids are out of control or you have a clearly strong-willed child, this classic is a must read.
I can't support this author's views on several topics, and don't agree with his condemnation of positive parenting. I believe in redirecting children when they don't know better, but of course as children's understanding increases, so also does their responsibility for their actions.I got 25% into the book and had to stop reading. I've requested a refund as I can't support this author's views.
Seriously, I just sort of glanced through this one, but it really turned me off. When the author starts the book by referring to children as being bratty and then devotes an entire chapter to how to use corporal punishment correctly, I am just not cool with that.
When you have a strong-willed child, everyone asks you whether you have read The Strong-Willed Child.
I wanted to like it.
I expected to like it.
I think the problem is that I don't think I'm really his audience.
The book seemed to be a reaction to a parent who has bought into the permissive parenting movement.
I will say that it did strengthen my resolve to keep the leash short and set out to win.
The problem is that "winning" is never as cut and dry and neat as Dobson seems to imply.
Now I remember why I haven't read a whole lot of parenting books lately.
I honestly can't believe this book is still around & being recommended.
One example of many: "There is a muscle lying snugly against the base of the neck.
Anatomy books list it as the trapezius muscle, and when firmly squeezed, it sends little messengers to the brain saying, "This hurts: Avoid recurrence at all costs." The pain is only temporary; it can cause no damage the way I am suggesting its use.
But it is amazingly effective and practical recourse for parents when their youngster ignores a direct command to move".
This book is almost the opposite of what I think good parenting is.
Dr. Dobson and I share Faith but not politics, so I opened this book with some a degree of skepticism.
My guess is that it comes up so often not just because Dr. Dobson supports it but also since so many people are critical of it that he felt compelled to offer arguments for it throughout the book.
I'm not quite convinced about the value of corporal punishment, but it did make me aware of the significance of dealing with willful defiance quickly and decisively.Another important takeaway is balancing discipline while cultivating a child's spirit.
Pretty well from the get-go I was appalled that Dr. Dobson administered punishment to a beloved family pet via his belt but it should have been my first warning.
The rest of the book (I made it to Chapter 7) continued to reaffirm that if parents simply physically harm their children (all the while reminding them that they are well-loved) then those manipulative, bratty, willful children will surely abide by their parents' rule.
He quite accurately describes a household in which children behave out of fear of corporal punishment, and while some may have no issue slapping their children's hands repeatedly, or administering spankings at the slightest infraction, I'm less willing.
It spends way too much time talking about the negatives of having a strong-willed child, including studies that make me anticipate how much worse it's going to get.
That is entirely unhelpful to someone with a strong-willed child.
His actual, practical parenting advice is the same as many other books I've read and there isn't a lot of it.
Mostly this book seems to say, "It stinks that you have a strong-willed child.
Good luck." Also, it is written from a strong Christian point of view, but in a way which I find unhelpful and off-putting.
This book is hot garbage. It flies in the face of empirically based psychological science and basically tells you to spank your kids and pray about them. Science has proven hitting/spanking/whipping children makes them more aggressive, not more compliant. I can't imagine the psychological damage this book has done.
This is the first book that I thought should be burned - really. I don't want to keep it, but I don't want it to get in the hands of anyone else. The book goes into detail of the best technique for spanking your child with biblical verses to back it up. I was actually embarrassed to be reading this book on the train - that someone might see me reading the book. DO NOT BUY THIS BOOK!!
Someone recently told me to read this book. This has to be a joke. Corporal punishment and the fear of God...you have got to be kidding me. The lazy way of parenting it should be called. Stick with love and logic!
I stopped reading this book right after the story of Siggi the dog. If he treats his dogs as he describes there is nothing he can tell me about raising children. Poor Siggi!!!
Where to begin!? It was terrible just terrible
Very helpful.
However, it was perhaps the first parenting book I've read that acknowledges that not all kids will respond the same way to the same methods, that natural consequences don't always do the trick, and that no matter how consistent, kind, and reasonable you are some children will engage in a battle of wills and when that happens you better win.
I think I actually did need to read this sort of advice about now.
This book is great for any parent: of a strong-willed child or not.
It addresses things like a child's precious spirit (not breaking it) and his strong will (shaping it) and the parent's responsibility in both.
He delineates between physical abuse and spankings, has harsh words for those who whack out of anger or without love and/or self-control, and offers practical suggestions for corporeal discipline, along with a wonderful prescription for what every parent should make part of his routine when disciplining (whether with spanking or not): 1.
Forgiveness by the parent who is responsible for the discipline;4.
However, I cried several times while reading the book.
Reading about the experiences of the different families really touched me and made me feel hopeful about my daughter's future.
But I see in her many of the same issues, and this book helped me feel that I will be strong enough to be her parent.
Most of the information is tailored more toward children ages 2 and older; however, as the author points out, it's never to early to start understanding your child's temperament.
I plan to borrow this book from the library several times as she grows older.As for the issue of spanking, I just don't know.
Dr Dobson gives practical advice on how to mold and control your strong-willed child.
He advocates using a warning system and only spanking (one or two quick swats on the bottom) after the child has been told the rules and deliberately disobeys them.
Dr Dobson uses the Bible to point out that parents are the authorities in the home and it's the parents' jobs to protect and mold their children.
The difference between spanking and abuse is dealt with in detail.
Parents of all faiths with difficult children would learn a lot from this book, they just have to have an open mind and real all of it!
Too much religion. Too much into the idea of corporal punishment using paddles or switches or belts. Just about tossed the book out the window when he spoke of smacking his doxie with a belt. Took very few ideas out of this book. Definitely still looking for a book to help with a strong willed 10 year old.
Everything I have read and heard by Dr. Dobson on parenting is great. Practical and Biblical. I would recommend it to any parent.
Any parenting book that includes a chapter on the benefits of corporal punishment should actually receive negative stars.
I really found a lot of useful and helpful points in this book. At times I felt like maybe he was a little too "idealistic," but overall Jordan and I read this together and really felt encouraged by it. (Beware that there's an entire chapter on how to use spanking appropriately, and if you don't agree with spanking you'll probably get mad.)
I would assume that many out-of-date references have been removed or replaced, but the core would certainly have stayed the same - since, as he states in the final chapter, he's not making this stuff up: it's based on an orthodox reading and application of scripture and Judeo-Christian values.That said, while this book may have been ground-breaking in '78, and while it is chock full of valuable insights and advice, there was not a Ton of content here that felt either surprising or mind-blowing.
