https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9969571-ready-player-one
He was totally obsessed with the ‘80s and nerdly stuff like computers, sci-fi, cartoons, movies, comics and video games.
That was fun.”“But… you got to play the old video games in the actual arcades, and you saw the first generation of home computers come out.
Don’t be like that, Wade.
It was kind of like Snow Crash meets the Scott Pilgrim Vs. The World movie.But I’ve got a personal pet peeve against people trying to live in the past and since this book is nostalgia porn*, the basic premise did rub me the wrong way.
Speaking as a formerly addicted World of Warcraft player (among others), I loved it.I believe you can tell the author's passion from what he's written, and it is clear from this book that Ernest Cline is a fellow gamer and geek.
I liked the realistic feeling of an online gaming sceneWade is a good kid.
I've always thought that life would be awful for my grandchildren, and this book pretty much tells it how I believe it could be.
And god help us if Trump is elected president.I also love Cline's explanation of the way online gaming works, down to its community.
The book gets hype because of its pervasive use of 1980s popular culture, particularly its references to science fiction, fantasy, and video games.
I would have liked to see the book explore this tension between the unifying and isolating effects of the online world in more detail.In summary, Ready Player One touches on some interesting ideas, although it doesn't explore them as deeply as I would have liked.
The story gets more interesting in the second half, and the annoying popular culture references become less frequent.
The author overexplains all the '80s references as if he expects readers to be too young or too disconnected from geek culture not to get them, but my experience with SF fandom is that no element of fandom, however old, ever completely dies out; all of us old farts who were teens in the '80s (and, interesting fact, the creator of the book's treasure hunt has the same birth year I do) make sure the young sprouts experience all the golden oldies.
This despite the fact that the guy who set up the enormous online multiverse AND created the treasure hunt did so by creating an enormous corporation of his own.
I got to read an ARC of this, and it appealed to every geeky part of me. I'll probably write a blog about it later, but for now, a brief review: Simply said? This book was fucking awesome.
Rote plotting, un-earned dickensian coincidences, clumsy deus ex machina (I still don't know how to pluralize that term), the worst kind of tokenism disguised as actually valuing diversity, a profound neglect of the complexities of the real/virtual world dichotomy...Cline has adopted some of the style of Gibson and Stephenson, but none of the substance.In a nice manifestation of the novel's lack of self-awareness, Cline at one point derides the villains of the book for simply using "Johnny 5" style robots from Short Circuit instead coming up with their own design.
Wade Watts has spent years playing through all of Halliday’s favorite games and songs trying to figure out the first step.
They were seriously awesome side characters with distinct personalities, which I especially enjoyed considering I have several friends on Goodreads whom I’ve never met in real life but I feel like I know pretty well.
I’m so happy that Ernest Cline was able to capture the personalities so well when the characters were only together outside of OASIS for limited amounts of time.As someone who has spent probably entire weeks of her life playing video games, this book feels a bit like validation.
I've been a lifelong gamer, a pop culture obsessive, and I once thought I'd married, for real, Princess Peach.Ready Player One has been hailed by its author, Ernest Cline, as a love letter to anyone who "grew up geek," a sentiment that has been confirmed by every review, in every publication, all over the world.
And yet, the Ready Player One that I read was less a love letter to geeks than it was a pat on the back to an 18-year-old Cline, a Stephanie-Meyer-eclipsing Mary Sue that attempts to justify the behavior of an overweight, socially awkward, virginal nerd.I'm not being mean.
Yes, I know it is embarrassing to admit it now, but I, like a large majority of boys and a good percentage of girls, had a crush on Molly.
The girls I dated in high school were that much more a pain in the ass because Molly Ringwald was their idol from the clothes they wore to the way they talked.
They have to learn how to play vintage video games such as Defender, Asteroids, Joust and Pac-Man. They have to watch all the television episodes from that era searching for clues to the puzzle.
when i was little i managed to simultaneously want to make out with both jon cryer and molly ringwald and to this day depeche mode's album black celebration soothes many sorrows.so a book that revolves around 80's pop culture sounded like my kind of thing, even if a lot of the references are video game related, and the minutiae, while impressive, could have been made up for all i knew because i enjoyed the atari back in the day, but i wasn't a serious video game geek.
the character has built an entire life around being obsessed with the pop culture of the 80's.
And for my Goodreads friends who enjoy my trivia questions, I went all out for my Ready Player One chapter; after all, 80s trivia was a big part of the book and so what better tribute could I pay than to level up with a treasure load of trivia questions?
One of the greatest compliments that can be paid to a book is to say you could not put it down, that’s how it was with Ready Player One, a very, very good read.I am stingy with my Goodreads 5 star votes, this one had my vote about a third of the way in.
NERDGASM!!!!!!! Video games, movies and music from the 80's!My teenage years were spent during the 80's. I look through the pictures that were taken at that time and realize we could have been called a cheesy generation. This book saves us. This book makes us cool. I actually wanted to revisit those times after reading this book. It's not deep literature but it is pure fun. I smiled and cheered so many times reading Wade's story, even though you know how the book is going to end it is still a po
I look through the pictures that were taken at that time and realize we could have been called a cheesy generation.
I actually wanted to revisit those times after reading this book.
I smiled and cheered so many times reading Wade's story, even though you know how the book is going to end it is still a popcorn needing ride to get to that ending.
I'm not going to bother telling you about the books story because other reviewers have done a wonderful job of that.
I'm gonna gif spam you!
(Every once in awhile I have to give the gif haters something to bitch about)
That’s the main plot and I won’t reveal anything else about it, because this book is too much fun to read!
=) It was so much fun to dive into that world and to puzzle over the hints of the hunt and I loved all the music, movies and video games that were mentioned throughout the entire book.
No one ever looks anything like their avatar.Parzival: Are we going to have an online romance?
< crosses fingers >”But of course Parzival and Art3mis weren’t the only two characters I loved.
I just kinda wanna cry right now. I'll have a proper review at some point, but I gotta let myself recover.
This made the book as something that was more written for a movie adaptation (there will be one coming in 2018 and it’s directed by Steven Spielberg so I’m hopeful for it).Despite these problems, I still enjoy reading RPO very much and it’s because the main strength of the book lies not within its plot or characters but within the concepts and tributes to every single popular entertainment media in the 80’s and 90’s.
This reached into the gamer part of my heart and gave it a big piece of red velvet cake. :)
• things I didn't get: that What I got instead was a "gate keeping" attitude in which any person/character who didn't have enough knowledge of the 80's was deemed not smart enough and not cool enough.
I can't get over this bit when Art3mis orders some drink and Wade is like 'OH SHE'S GETTING THAT BECAUSE IT'S THE SAME AS *CHARACTER* DRINKS.
Like, these characters literally WERE 80's references.
Also, I found it annoying we were supposed to give Wade Nice Boy Points for thinking her "curvy" avatar was hot, when we ALL KNOW it was the KimK type curvy and SHE LITERALLY IS TINY THIN IRL ANYWAY Aech is so ??
All of this nostalgia is really wonderful, but I never liked the shows (like Family Ties) that the book mentioned, I didn't obsessively play any of the old video games (although I do remember playing Centipede occasionally with my ONLY friend who could afford a console), and the music...*cough*...well, it wasn't any better than the stuff on the radio right now.So. While I found some of the references kinda neat-o, that sort of thing wasn't enough to make me flail around and get all excited.And, unfortunately, there wasn't enough meat to the characters to make me wanna cheer for Wade, Art3mis, or Aech.
Excluding the latter, I am not interested in any of those things.BUT DAMN IF I DIDN’T LOVE THIS BOOK.Okay.
I’M GETTING VERY DISTRACTED.So in this book, it’s, like, fifty years in the future, or something.
It’s a little hard to settle in, because the book will be goddamn molasses for like 50 pages and then SUDDENLY BREAKNECK SPEED EVERYTHING IS HAPPENING PEOPLE COULD DIE YOU’D BETTER READ AS FAST AS YOUR EYES CAN SKITTER ACROSS THIS TEXT BABY and then that’d be over in a dozen pages and it’d be moreeee slownesssss.
I expected more.BUT I STILL ABSOLUTELY LOVED THIS BOOK.
WOW !!! (Pun intended, if you what I meant ;) ) Charlie and the Chocolate Factory meets The Big Bang Theory meets TRON (raised to the nth power (TRON, I mean)).The most clear appealing to read this novel is obviously the insane quantity of geek references, mostly to 80's era (and some of 70's too), so it is most likely that people who aren't geek (don't worry, nobody is perfect) may be feel alienated and/or not interested to read this book. However, since "geek" is the new black these days, so
But maybe you won't enjoy it the same.Therefore, I can't deny the advantage of being a geek, specially raised in the now classic time known as "The 80s", to understand almost all references and stuff that it's commented on the narrative.However, honestly I think that even you aren't a geek per se, if you are looking for a good novel in the dystopian genre with young brave heroes battling against a powerful corporation determined to rule society, well, I am sure that you will be able to enjoy quite enough the general core of the storyline.(While it's almost impossible that a novel can coincide with our own personal favorites of 80's and 70's, I thought to quote some of mine along the review.
I was highly anticipating this book for some time after seeing so many 5 star reviews and awesome comments, but the book was just a “like” and I wasn’t overly impressed like I thought I’d be.The story takes place in 2044 and the world is in a Grimm state.
Sure, there were interesting parts in the book with Wade’s adventures in the OASIS and with all the competition, I continued to think it might pick up for me, but the book just kept me hanging on until the end with all the nostalgia.
So you know that time when you read a really good book and then, for some reason, you wait forever to make a review, so the little things that would've made your review 'spicy' are gone from memory?It's one of those times!And you know that time when you are writing a review and you are almost done and you accidentally delete it?
Yep!Now, for short, if you don't feel like reading the rest of the review (trust me, you have better things to do with your time), I LOVED LOVED LOVED this novel.
As I said, I forgot a lot of little things, but I do know RPO was the best book I had the chance of reading last year.
In the dystopian future of 2044, the world is going down the crapper and many people spend most of their free time playing OASIS, an online virtual reality game, sifting through every minute detail of the creator's life, for whomever unravels a series of riddles James Halliday left behind inherits it all.
However, as a child of the 80's and a dyed in the wool geek, I enjoyed the book very very much.As I said earlier, the plot isn't revolutionary but it's still an enjoyable read.
Would not you rather stay in your efficiency apartment and play virtual reality?Wade is an overweight and unattractive teen who barely has a life outside of OASIS, a web platform that, by 2044, has totally replaced the internet (with travel dangerous and difficult, most everyday commerce is virtual).
All he lives for is OASIS, and the search for the Egg.See, when James Halliday, the Bill Gates-like inventor of the OASIS, died, he hid his will (and the rights to his fortune and control of OASIS itself) somewhere inside the game, on any one of thousands of virtual worlds.

رواية مختلفة، مثيرة سريعة، جذبتني كما لم تفعل رواية خيال علمي أخري-وترجمت للعربية أخيرا، ارشحها بقوة-نقلتني لديستوبيا مستقبلية، شبيهة بالواقع المؤسف الحزين بحق الذي نعيشهوبنفس الوقت هربت منها الي يوتوبيا إفتراضية، عالم الكتروني محاكي للواقع..فيسبوك ثلاثي الأبعاد"قل لي هل سمعت عن الهيكيكوموري؟؟ المتقوقعون؟"في لعبة فيديو مجنونة برمجها مؤلف "غريب الأطوار" مهووس الألعاب والثمانينات..أيرنست كلين "بالنظر حولي، تعجبت لِمّا هاليداي الذي طالما أدعي أن طفولته بائسة، صار يشعر بكل هذا الحنين اليها لاحقا. أع

Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsI've heard, you've probably heard, HELL, most people who read some variation of SFF have heard that READY PLAYER ONE is freaking amazing b/c it's swarming with '80s pop culture/nerd references.And it is.
Wade Watts lives in a bleak future version of our world where the majority escape their mundane existence by spending as much time as humanly possible in virtual realities.
The realities Wade visits are mostly inspired by the '80s and popular geek culture spanning from the advent of gym-sized computers to our present.
THIS IS POSSIBLY THE BEST BOOK IN EXISTENCE. LIKE...FO REALZ.
OH HOHOHOHOHO THIS BOOK WAS GOOOOOOODIt was so different from anything else I've ever read and it put my knowledge of 80s movies, Dungeons and Dragons, and Monty Python to good use! Honestly, read this. Just do it.
"And then one night, like a complete idiot, I told her how I felt."THANK YOU....to my friend Coment, for giving me book -in the pool- no less!
[ME TOO...."Time After Time", by Cyndi Lauper]....Art3mis shouted.Her eyes darted toward the dance floor.
"What the hell."....I enjoyed the nostalgia ...(some things I didn't know what the author knew -at all -being a very UN-GEEK-GIRL ....but Packman???....NOW WE'RE TALKING MY LANGUAGE).
....I loved the hunt to find the Easter Egg........I liked the good and evil characters --....Haliday - the guy who died - creator of OASIS....was the most fascinating 'dead' character.
I loved how I felt....
