https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125507.The_True_Story_of_the_3_Little_Pigs
This is maybe the BEST 3 Little Pigs story out there.My daughter saw this on our bookshelf the other day and freaked out (she's 9, so cut her some slack) because she didn't realize we owned it.
Wolf tells his side of the story.
And you can't let a good ham sandwich go to waste, right?No. No, you cannot.Poor Mr. Wolf.
Right, Alexander?This is one of the books you've gotta have in your library if you're the owner of small children.
5 INCREDIBLE ★'sThe True Story of the 3 Little Pigs became one of the most popular books in 1989, earning awards, like the New York Times Best Illustrated book.
This book, in particular, is narrated by The Big Bad Wolf and he tries to explain to the reader his side of the story as to what happened when he met the three little pigs.
It's one of the best books I ever read as a kid and let's face it, I still love it to this day!
This is a must-read that your kids will love.
“The True Story of the Three Little Pigs” became one of the most popular books in 1989, earning awards, including the New York Times Best Illustrated book.
Scieszka does a great job in relating the wolf’s predicament to the viewers, so that when you read the story, you probably are feeling sorrier for the wolf then for the little pigs.
“The True Story of the Three Little Pigs” is a pure classic among both adults and children and features humor that is brilliantly sarcastic and sometimes dark.
BTW, this is Barbara (Seth's sister )writing Seth's review.Back (this is Barbara pretending to be Seth)in my day, when I was but a wee lad of the tender age of four or five or something, I was introduced to this marvelous, touching, inspiring, novelty of a book.
It changed my whole life, introducing me to a whole new outlook on life.I read this book so many times (okay, i admit, i had to have daddy read it to me)that I had it memorized.
because i was a super evil genius with amazing brain power and memorization abilities.
I read this way back when I was in elementary school for the first time and thought it was a-a-a-awesome. So, when my daughter came into the world eight years ago, I had to get her books to know what awesome truly is! Anyway, I just now remembered to review this book when I saw Anne's review on it because she knows what awesome is as well! Anyway, I love the views on a wolf that is totally misunderstood! I think we are misunderstood in some shape and form throughout our minuscule existence!
This is one of my favorite books as a child.
I always enjoyed the idea that the true story of the three little pigs, was different than what we knew to be true.
: ) I recently picked up this book again, and read though it.
I have to say that many books usually do not stand up to a second read through.
Especially if you read the book as a child.
I also have to say that perhaps I was even more delighted with the book in my adulthood, more than I could have ever been in my childhood.
While the students were epic failures in dealing with the court case I treasured this story because everyone and their mother knows the story of the Three Little Pigs and its interesting to see a different point and view and my teacher made this court case look like the O.J. Simpson trial for kids (Plus no one knew the details of who O.J. Simpson was just that he was a football player who murdered his wife and got away with it).
According to the wolf, he was not doing anything wrong (what a surprise!) and he's gotten a bum deal ever since the events occurred which are related in the story.This is a great book to use when teaching point of view.
It's easy to see that the story with which we are all familiar takes on a whole different spin when the point of view of the author changes.
After listening to this story and perhaps some other of the now popular modern day spins on some traditional tales, it might be a great idea to have your students write them own modern day spin on a favorite fairy tale.
While every child has heard the tale of the Three Little Pigs.
Very few have heard the story from the point of view of the poor, germ afflicted, Alexander Wolf  Reading this traditional tale from the point of view of the usual 'baddie,' was very amusing.
For Ks1 students, the fact there are always two sides to any story is a notable takeaway message that could be discussed in P4C sessions.
Additionally, for Ks2 readers, students may reflect on how different points of view may influence a reader; along with key terms such as: bias, opinion and fact.
Despite his desire for understanding, the wolf still exposes his anger issues and lack of sympathy for the dead pigs.The illustrator, Lane Smith, does a marvelous job at creating a grainy, dark world in which the wolf resides.
The wolf's character is never fully redeemed, yet the story and its illustrations show us the perspective and dark world the wolf inhabits.I enjoy stories from the "bad" characters out of fairy tales.
Hearing the wolf's perspective on the Three Little Pigs tale was fun.
Maybe I have a little bit of sympathy for the two pigs that died, but I understand why the wolf ate them.
Summary: This is a spin-off of the original story The Three Little Pigs.
Alexander Wolf gets his chance to explain his side of the story.
Instead of being an intimidating, evil wolf, he went to his two neighbors (the pig brothers) to borrow a cup of sugar.
He had a rather nasty cold and so he ended up sneezing so hard that he blew their houses done.
When he went to the third pig's house, the pig refused to open the door and insulted his grandmother.
I remember the librarian at my elementary school reading this to my class not once, not twice, but three times when I was a little girl. It was one of the more popular stories/fairy tale adaptations in our library, "The Three Little Pigs" told from the wolf's perspective. I still remember there was one boy in my class who said at the end of the story "He's totally lying." I think we were all inclined to agree.It was a fun read, I haven't read it in quite some time, but I still remember it fondly.
the wolf -- Al, to be exact -- tells his side of the story!hilarious!(for some reason I kept hearing the voice of Jon Lovitz as I was reading ...)**25th anniversary edition
I used this book for a year 3/4 lesson whilst we were writing fairytales. It was a great way for the children to see alternative perspectives and it greatly improved their own stories from alternate perspectives. The book has great illustrations and makes a great book to read to a whole class.
I was supposed to laugh at this, but groaned and rolled eyes at it instead. I found the twist more childish and contrived than hilarious, though the art was lovely.
It’s not my fault wolves eat cute little animals like bunnies and sheep and pigs.”“I had this terrible sneezing cold…”“Now this neighbor was a pig, and he wasn’t too bright either… I mean, who in his right mind builds a house out of straw?”“I felt a sneeze coming on.
He must have been the brains of the family, because he had built his house out of bricks.”“The news reporters found out… So they jazzed up the story with all that ‘Huff and puff and blow your house down’… I WAS FRAMED.”.
It tells the’ three little pigs story’ from the wolf’s point of view which is very convincing and is in total contrast to the story we all know and love.
The wolf introduces himself at the start of the story and announces that he had been framed by the three little pigs.
The wolf decided to visit the three little pigs in search of sugar in order to make the cake.
This is when the wolf became outraged and the police caught him and accused him of ‘huffing and puffing’ and blowing the little pigs houses in.
Kids love to laugh at the little things that he adds in to the story and make a big deal about how some of the things the pigs said to the wolf are not very nice.
I know that my class sits eagerly waiting for the next page - and my kids have most of the story memorized so they will "read" the book to each other during center times.
I completely forgot about this book.
I was looking for some books and stumbled upon this.
This was one of my favorite tales growing up.
Scieszka and his illustrator did a very good job telling the story in a way that no one has ever read before.
This story was one of my favorites due to the illustrations.
Picture books were always a huge hit for me because I'm very much a visual person.
This is a story I would read in my classroom.
I think any age could read this starting from first grade and up.
I was drawn right away to the front cover, and thought what an interesting concept it would be to hear the story of the three little pigs from the Wolf's perspective.What followed had me laughing out loud.
You see the wolf would have you believe this was all just a big misunderstanding and he was being framed.
I think one of my favourite parts was the second little pig shaving the hair on his chinny chin chin.
*laughing* (you just have to see the picture as the books being read)Then we will leave it up to you dear reader, as to whom you will believe.
This is the three little pigs told from the wolf’s point of view adding a different look at the whole events. The author provides several plausible reasons for why the little pigs get eaten and can easily have the reader feeling sorry for the wold (he ends up in jail at the end of the story). The illustrations certainly add to the drama of the story and provide just the right amount of intensity. It kind of reminded me of the movie Hoodwinked where the accused gives their own version of the incident.
There are always two sides to every story and now we get the wolfs version of this story. Really the wolf was just completely misunderstood and wanted a cup of sugar, but things went wrong due to his allergies and sneezing problem.A fun twist on a very well known story.
i LOVOOOVED this book as a kid! LOVED it!i always did feel that the wolf was painted in a bad light!
I remember reading this years ago when it first came out, and I thought it was really cute.
These books that turn fairy tales on their heads are always so funny, and it really takes you back to your childhood as well.
What an imaginative spin on the classic 3 little pigs.
I love this creative perspective of the wolfs story which is different to how most children will expect!
I found this really gripping and interesting as it follows the well-known story of the 3 little pigs in humorous and light-hearted fashion.
It would be a great read for KS1 to get them talking about perspectives and pushing their thoughts to further boundaries considering other characters in stories.
Furthermore, lower KS2 could use this to begin to look at writing other well known fairytales from other perspectives and using their imagination in the best ways possible!
This is a delightful read for all ages. Thoroughly enjoyed it!!!!!
This book is really quite funny. The kids thought it was brilliant.
Jon Scieszka’s version of this well-known folktale gives the wolf a chance to tell his side of the story that left him with the reputation of ‘Big and Bad.’ Illustrations by the unique artist Lane Smith magnify the already wonderful text in this book.From his jail cell, after being convicted of eating pigs and destruction of property, Alexander T.
Scieszka ends the story by stating that a slow news day caused for exaggeration in the wolf’s story and led to his jail sentence.A new traditional story, The True Story of the Three Little Pigs is well-written using point-of-view, humor, and simple language to engage readers.
The True Story Of The  Three Little Pigs (PAPERBACK) Jon Scieszka This book is one of the stories of the three little pigs.There is on powerful method the author used was he added the way the charcter talk and show u how the character feels when being bullied by another character.The funny thing was that the wolfs responded to the wolf and plus they followed all of the tricks he pulled on them.Basically wolf said he was about to sneeze and thats how the houses fall down.But the author let you hear both sides of the story to make you think about who is correct and what was did wrong.I fell for the wolf side at first because i thought he was telling the truth and plus i thought the pigs started it think realize the wolf lied to save hisself from looking like a bully.i think that the wolf was dishonest because he never kept it real.I want you to know my story about what happened to me in school in the seventh grade.
