https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/998064.Person_
Rhythmic, meaningful, dense with historical references from troubadors to Li Po and Tertullian.

Por dos razones me gusta hacer reseñas, muchas veces me sirve poner algo por escrito para aclarar mis impresiones sobre un libro y también como para que me quede el recuerdo de la experiencia de lectura, quizás desde una lógica de capitalización medio pedorra, pero bueno.
Por eso reseño este libro del que no puedo decir mucho porque me super excede, que tardé un montón en leer, pero que realmente me dio momentos muy hermosos.
I don't get Pound. For me a great poet is one who conveys complex emotions efficiently, with just enough subtlety to make one's mind wander. But Pound seems to be the exact opposite. I refuse to applaud writers who speak their own language, leaving readers to do hours of research and analysis in order to appreciate ten lines of poetry; I utterly refuse to consider that talent.
"And the days are not full enoughAnd the nights are not full enoughAnd life slips by like a field mouse not shaking the grass"More truth in these four lines than anything I have ever read.Resolute and profound. I could read it over and over again.
4.5I do not like you, Ezra Pound.You are a fascist and a racist and a raging anti-semite, and (perhaps most irritating of all) a bloody good poet.
Cathay is charming. The other sections have a whiff of cultivated obscurity and pretentious elitism.
Pound aprovecha este material de una manera sublime, lo vemos en poemas como Na Audiart, pero en ese afán por cantar a la tribu (que se verá directamente plasmado en los Cantos), trata de no dejar nada sin tocar.
De todas maneras, tras este poema increíble (ver Canto V de Inferno) hay muchísimos más de esta época juvenil que son alucinantes y se vuelve en vano enumerar.
Después vienen los de Ripostes, que son quizá su parte más solida en 1912, dedicado al entrañable William Carlos Williams y encabezado por una cita del buen Propercio.
Pound's poetry is intricate, dense, lyrical, and passionate without being sentimental. He is not as emotionally evocative as some other poets, but I kind of like that about him. Poetry for him was about cutting through the dross of decadence and emotionalism and recapturing the primitive roots of poetry as distilled truth-telling. His work has a ruthless integrity to it; Pound does not suffer ignorance of the humanities gladly.
"For our wonder that grows not old"After hearing of An Idyl for Glaucus and then finished the rest, I particularly liked Masks and Search. Though after finding of the personality of the poet, I am less impressed.
(I sough and sing / that love goes out/ leaving me no power to hold him/ Of love i have naught ) :'( ( Even in my dreams you have denied yourself to me, and sent me your handmaids ) <3 (But from where my heart is set/ No message I get / My heart all wakes and grieves/Defeat/Or luck, I must have my fill.) (O Atthis..
I long for thy lips/ I long for thy narrow breasts / Thou restless , UNGATHERED) <3 ..
DoriaBe in me as the eternal moods  of the bleak wind, and not As transient things are—  gaiety of flowers. Have me in the strong loneliness 5 of sunless cliffs And of gray waters.  Let the gods speak softly of us In days hereafter,  the shadowy flowers of Orcus 10Remember thee.
Empty are the ways, Empty are the ways of this land And the flowers Bend over with heavy heads. They bend in vain. Empty are the ways of this land Where Ione Walked once, and now does not walk But seems like a person just gone.
I like Ezra Pound. I know a lot of people will disagree for a lot of different reasons, but this is one of my favorite volumes of poetry (it's also hard to imagine greater diversity in a collection of one poet's work).
Specifically I read Homage to Sextus Propertius, which I believe is in this edition of this book. I have a much older copy. Although I don't think I "got" a good percentage of the Greek references, I did love it for the sound and rhythm. I found myself readng it aloud.
wow
I sleep with this under my pillow.
A found an old version, a New Direction Book (1926) while helping an old French professor clean out out his flat
"Tantos millares de bellezas han bajado al Averno, dejad que alguna se quede arriba con nosotros..."
Great stuff. Mauberly, Propertius, Cathay...superb
I fear you will come to a bad end.You stand about in the streets,You loiter at the corners and bus-stops,You do next to nothing at all.I think Pound may be my key, my guide to understanding and appreciating poetry at a level I never could before.
Pound has poems that are good by my old standard - Erat Hora, The Picture, Of Jacopo Del Sellaio - but mostly writes poetry that I needed to learn to appreciate from a new standpoint - technical proficiency, a kind of density in rhythm that is immensely satisfying to read aloud, i.e The Seafarer.
I see myself reading poems here that first left me cold with a new respect and understanding in the years to come.
A masterpiece. Easily one of the best collections of poetry ever written. A euphoric chill in my bones.
fascist
Tämä lukukokemuksena enemmänkin 3,5.
Halusin lukea tämän läpi sivistääkseni itseäni.
Pound on tunnettu imaginisti (aiheen suora käsittely ilman ekstroja, ei mitallista runoutta, Poundilla metaforisuus) ja vaikuttajatyyppi omalla tavallaan länsimaisen kirjallisuuden historiassa, mm.
Pound hassahti myöhemmin omiin poliittisiin näkemyksiinsä fanittaen esim.
Tykkään usein miten lukea antiikkini antiikkina.
Klassismin kirjallisuus sotki jo pakkaa omalta osaltaan ja nyt tämä tyyppi.
Joskus antiikkisettiä on mukava lukea myöhempien aikojen (vau.) kirjailijoiden tulkintoina, mutta Poundin tyyli ei vienyt minua perille asti.
Varhaisempi kerros Poundia oli roolirunoutta, jossa tekstissä on kertojana jokin tyyppi ("rooli"), jonka kautta kirjoittaja voi tuoda omia tuntojaan esille myös.
I've been wrestling with Pound for years, and I've finally come to the conclusion that in regards to pure ability he's the best poet I've ever read.
When he's rolling, his lines have so much life and are so much fun that they put the work of most poets to shame.
Often, though, he erudition gets the best of him and he seems to confuse personal obsession with cultural worth, which creates a lot of needless obscurity and blunts his impact severely.
Highly recommended for those looking for a way into the work of this difficult, cranky, wildly talented master.
Reading Pound's early poetry gives no clue that he will become one of the leading lights of the first generation of modernist poets.
By the end of the volume you are smack dab in the middle of a literary revolution, with something like Hugh Selwyn Mauberly, that is still playing out.
This volume also contains Cathay which are his translations of Chinese poetry of the Tang dynasty, Li Po for the most part.
The only thing missing that I would have like to have been included is the initial draft of the first few of the Cantos.
Poems from Cathay were some of the greatest things I've ever read. Pound's actual poetry was too dense for me. He frequently alluded to history and literary characters that I had no clue about, Pound is too smart for me. There were a few gems that popped up, but there were too few. By all means he was probably the greatest teacher to have ever lived, and had a knowledge of the poetic tradition that is unrivaled. Unfortunately I found a lot of his poems not very moving to say the least. Probably worth buying for Cathay alone.
In addition to being a jerk, Pound was clearly intelligent and passionate about poetry, but a poet's actual interest has to be in life, and I get the impression Pound's interest was only in poetry. When he includes his "translations" of other poets who dared write about human experience, a breath of air comes suddenly into the book, and then quickly departs as we return to Pound's gratuitously obscure, self-important little discourses on himself or on his latest reading.
This book has one of my favorite lines of poetry ever. It's from Pound's poem about the river-merchant's wife. Observing pairs of butterflies as she thinks of her departed husband, she says simply, beautifully:"They hurt me. I grow older."Oh, Ezra Pound, you were such a kook. A stodgy old brilliant kook. I never would have wanted to know you in real life. But I guess I can say that about a lot of crotchety old writers.
Even in this selection from Pound's early career, there are poems one doesn't need--hence the docking of one star from the rating. But this remains one of the premier books of poetry of the 20th century, one of the very few which readers ought to have. Perhaps my favorite is Homage to Sextus Propertius (which some classical scholars hate), but "The River Merchant's Wife" is also here and many other fine works.
