https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/744224.Rush_Home_Road
When I started reading this Novel I found that by the end of second chapter I was totally drawn into the story and was captivated by the characters and the premise of the story.The novel is set in the 1920s and 1970s in a trailer park in a small town in Canada and tells the story of 70 year old Addy Shadd.
I think Lori Larsens does an excellent job of telling this tale and I love the sense of time and place that she creates.I found this book a really interesting and an easy read and would recommend it for anyone who enjoyed Novels such as The Kitchen House or The Help.
I felt like I got to know the main character, Addy, so well, that I missed her when I finished the book.
The books centers around and old African American woman who grudgingly agrees to take in a ragamuffin white child who is homely and unwanted.
But again, Lansens' writing is so well crafted that it's like reading your first really good novel.
The author also very creatively switches back from present tense to past tense and we learn of all the things (mostly sad) that happened along Addy's path that made her who she was as an old woman.
In my little world three stars out of five means it was a pretty good read … this book I would give six!The book is set in the Detroit-Windsor-Chatham corrider of Southern Ontario (as are most of Ms. Lansens books) and tells the story of Sharla Cody and Mum-Addy.
Although uplifting in the case of little Sharla, it makes me wish every needy child had an “Addy” in their lives.Addy is a character I quickly came to love, and that feeling kept me turning the pages to find out more about her remarkable life.
After enjoying The Girls a great deal earlier this year, I was interested to read her first novel.
Unfortunately, this novel falls flat and doesn't hold up to my expectations.The characters are interesting enough, but the storyline is at best predictable and at worst contrived.
People on the beach thought I was having a stroke.Overall, a quick, decent read but lacking the emotional depth I had hoped after liking The Girls so much.
It's a first novel and it reads like one--when it's not reading like a movie of the week--but Lansens has talent and I'll continue to look for her work in the future.
Set in both the 1930s and the 1990s, this rich literary novel tells the story of Addy Shadd, a black woman in the Great Lakes region of Canada and the U.S., starting with the violent disruption of her nearly idyllic life as a teenager in Rusholme.
A pregnant Addy is forced out of her home at 15 years of age and has to make her way in a world that is at best unsympathetic to her plight.As an old woman, Addy takes in Sharla Cody, a biracial 5-year-old neighbor whose mother abandons the girl in the trailer park where they all live.
I thought it would be more about the girl, Sharla but it was truly about Adalaide "Addy" Shadd.
And much like Jane Eyre Addy is goes off at a young age (but Jane wasn't raped) and by coincidence, or by God Addy meets people who are unlikely helpers.
And the coolest part for me is that i hadn't heard of the author and she has a couple more books.
This is a book about love- for Addy had a first love and a real love.
it's about family- Sharla wants her mother but loves "mum addy" too.
"Wake in bed and know, because dreams are not true, that the sun will be shining and it will not storm today."I haven't fallen this madly in love with a book in years.
The last time I closed a book and actually missed the characters was when I read The Time Traveler's Wife about 8 years ago.
They needed each other.(Spoilers below!)My heart couldn't handle a lot of things that happened in this beautiful book.
I wanted the book to last awhile, I didn't want it to be over, but I also NEEDED to know things (what happened to her children?
I first remember opening this book in the store and reading the first paragraph.
I was younger at that time so it took me a few days to read.
I loved following her through her past and present at the same time caring for little Sharla Cody.
I was able to see her face her problems of love, rape, acceptance and the strength she had to make it through it all.I learned that life isn't perfect and there are always going to be times when life takes a turn for the worst but you shouldn't let it control your life.
I bought this book a few years back.
It sat on my shelf after I read the first few pages and put it down for the bad language/swearing.
I'm so glad I gave it a second chance...it was a fabulous, heart touching, sweet read.
I love books like this one, of people unselfishly helping others less fortunate.
(the bad language at the start was just a way of describing the family and their lifestyle of the little girl who was abandoned) there was a little sexuality.
Overall, I loved this book, hated for it to end, and would recommend it!
This is a very well written novel concerning a story of bonding, hope, love and a need to belong with family and loved ones.
There are many interesting characters in Addy Shadd’s story.
Addy herself showed resilience, compassion and forgiveness throughout her experiences and did so with a sense of dignity.
It was a very sad story in places, both for Addy and Sharla.
There were a few twists thrown in that I didn’t expect.
Overall, a very good, heart touching story.
I really enjoyed this book and felt immersed in the story when reading it.
I look forward to reading more from this author.
Loved this book... wonderful story of redemption and resilience!!! Addy's story will stay with me... HIGHLY recommend!!!
I loved this book.
If I hadn't had so many things going on in my life I very much would have read this in one sitting.
I fell in love with the characters and the story line as well.
I was so sad when the story ended, because I felt so connected to the characters lives.
Sometimes I have trouble with the alternating story lines, but Lansens worked it perfectly in this book, in my opinion.
I definitely recommend this book to everyone!
I want to know more about the little girl, but the ending really was the way the book was supposed to end.
In spite of that, this is a book that deserves an attempt at a review for my friends who read.Books that start with old people and flash back to their earlier lives will always capture my attention.
Addy Shadd not only captured me, but touched something a little deeper while reading her story in this book.
As I turned the last page and closed the book, I was surprised to discover tears on my cheeks.Addy is 70+ years old and an unrelated child, 5-year-old Sharla Cody, is dumped on her doorstep for the summer.
This book is both uplifting and heartbreaking at the same time.
Addy Shadd has got to be one of the greatest characters written in fiction.
She has been through so much in her life and yet has survived with an amazing outlook on life, and she passes her wisdom on to Sharla, a 5 year old who is foisted on her.
The story switches between Addy's back story and the current situation between Addy and Sharla.
Both are related with compassion but in unflinching detail.
This is a book that you don't want to end.
Now I also recommend this book.
I really enjoyed the book and reading of Addy's life although she had been through so much! It seemed a little long for me but felt that way because her life story had to be told. It made me laugh, cry, and get angry and if you read it, I know it will make you do all 3 too! A definite recommend!
Did you ever read a book that you didn't want to end? Or that you hated to leave the characters? That's how I felt toward the end of this book. Lori Lansens' story grabbed me on the first page to the last. Beautifully written!
This was such a heartwarming tale of love and hope. It's hard to put into words what I'm feeling right now after the beautiful ending to this novel. So touching. Highly recommend.
This is a beautiful story of a woman with an enduring spirit and a big heart. At over 500 pages, it could have used more editing, but the plot was interesting and the ending satisfying.
The hero of this book has lost these attributes but still finds the courage to change the life of another human.
Addy Shadd as a child had experienced betrayal, disappointment and grief very early in her life.
Her brother who misguidedly sacrificed his young life to preserve some vestige of honour for Addy, his sister, lived on in her mind and constantly talked with and advised her.
Towards the end of her life, as she gradually slipped away from reality, the influence of these figures in her mind grew stronger.I admired the way love and trust developed between the old woman and the girl.
It is both a heartbreaking and heartwarming story at the same time, that focuses on the lives of Addy and Sharla.
It moves effortlessly between the story of Addy who because of a terrible incident and a thoughtless community must leave home as a young pregnant teenager.
Addy now elderly and living alone, has Sharla a 5 year old neglected/abused child abandoned on her door step.
The start of the book had me in tears for this poor child.
Every child should have an Addy in their life.
I could not put the book down and I will miss Addy and Sharla.
Except that somehow Addy the Ugly ends up not only capturing the heart of the guy she had a huge crush on but barely spoke to (undying love that came from what exactly?) as well as about ninety other men up until the closing of the tale.In addition to Lansens total sell out in regard to a potentially interesting heroine (Addy was about as realistic and developed as that Laura Bush character in Sittenfeld's simpering work), the people in Addy's world divide quickly and unfailingly into good and bad with basically no ambiguity.
I read it only because it's a book club choice, and wasn't too excited since I really, really didn't like Lansens other work at all.
This is a tale of loss, family (including what that means), small-town judgements, injustice and struggles (both large and small) against injustice, the indomitable human spirit, and, mostly, love.
A strange little girl is thrust into Addy's life, near the end of that life.
The book revolves around their grandmother/granddaughter-like relationship, as Addy moves back and forth between the present and her past, remembering, making sense of the whole and fulfilling her responsibility to the child.
After all, some people truly do persevere and find meaning in most every situation and relationship.
Lansens has written a heartbreaking story of loss and redemption with just enough love for the reader to grasp onto like a raft in turbulent water.
The protagonist Addy Shadd draws you into her world and, as if you are a child like Sharla yourself, teaches you the value of forgiveness as well as "how to live simply and simply live." Lansens infuses her book with vivid scents--pie crusts, strawberries warm in the summer sun, sweat, death, decay, and the algae green smell of Lake Erie.
The world she fashions is so close you can almost taste it.
One of the best books I've read in a long time and when I turned the last page this afternoon, I was sad that it ended.
The book follows the life of Adelaide Shadd, a 70-year old black woman in poor health who is unexpectedly left with the neighbor's child after she abandons her to run off with her latest boyfriend.
The story is rich in feeling and detail, telling the story alternating between flashbacks of Addy's childhood in Rusholme, her journey to adulthood, and her current life with Sharla Cody, the young girl.
I admired Addy's strength and perseverance, her relationships with each character in the book, and the author's writing style.
I absolutely loved this book, there are so many layers.
The story is told through the memories of 70 year old Addy who lives on a trailer park and is left to look after a little girl for the summer after she is abandoned by her abusive mother.
Sharla Cody's mother was wicked and I found the abuse moments very uncomfortable and hard to read.
Addy reveals how her life changed forever when she was a child and the struggles and events that eventually lead her to living in the trailer park.
I loved this book and I hope you will too.
It was absolutely excellent.The story is about a black woman growing up in southern Ontario (end of the Underground Railroad) and the trials of her life.
This story is reflective in nature and perfectly intertwines the past and the present.Rush Home Road was a national best seller here in Canada, and was of particular interest to me, as I'm quite close (within 45 minutes) of the area described by the author, and I've always loved stories (true or otherwise) about black history.I found it hard to believe that this novel was the author's first.
An older woman saw a neighbor girl that was abandoned by her mother.
The mother gave Addy some of Sharlas clothes and left the area never to return.
Addy cared for Sharla as if she was her own child.
Both of Addy's children had died, one at birth and the other a six years of age.
Addy now had a sense of purpose teaching Sharla right from wrong and good manners too.
Every other chapter reminiscing on Addy's past.
After several years Sharla found her real father and Addy's friend and family were waiting for her in Heaven .
I very much enjoyed this book. It has such a good story. After reading some of the other reviews, it struck me how a book is as personal as shoes or purses. Something has to resonate with you that may not with someone else and that's what makes reading such a worthwhile hobby. I thought this story of the older woman showed great compassion and how life just goes on for everyone.
Wow wow wow! This book was so sad...but I loved it so much. It was crazy how she could have had such a hard life...yet she never felt defeated. She was always looking for hope and didn't really feel sorry for herself. She just kept on going. This is one of the better books I have read in awhile. LOVED IT!!!!
After reading and enjoying The Girls by the same author, I was really looking forward to Rush Home Road. I didn't care for it as much as The Girls. I found the plot predictable and the characters too one-dimensional. However, the story kept my interest and I looked forward to reading it.
