https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79917.Crowds_and_Power
Who knew that an apparently sociological treatise could be so creative, so enthralling, so literate?
Consequently: "Their feeling of unity is dispensed to them in doses and the continuation of the church depends on the rightness of the dosage."Parliamentary crowds, that is democratically elected Party-affiliated representatives, are an example in a modern form of bloodless warfare.
It is Canetti's not uninformed view that "Hitler would never have come to power if the crowd of the army had not been prohibited by Versailles."Like Dr Johnson, Canetti inserts more than one or two private prejudices into his analyses.
I had heard that he was the prototype of the diabolical Julius King in A Fairly Honourable Defeat, and I'd also read various lurid accounts of their affair.
Among other things, Canetti's wife used to greet Murdoch with a smile when she turned up for their trysts and then make lunch for all of them afterwards; as you can see, a cult leader kind of personality.
So I was curious to find out more about him, and, when Sherwood recommended Crowds and Power in the middle of a discussion thread last month, I went out and ordered a copy.The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
Canetti is a genius. The chapter on power and violence should be a must read for every aspiring politician (not to mention the ones already in office).
One of Canetti's principal explicatory methods is to describe custom and ritual amongst the modern remnant of hunting-gathering mankind - Australian aborigines and certain tribes of Southern Africa, for example - as well as using mystic religious ceremonial for illustrative purposes (a violent incident from an Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca providing an especially tense and powerful moment).
More literary than scientific, Canetti's anthropological investigation of crowd behavior will leave you looking both at human behavior and the natural world in new ways. Overstatements, stereotypes, all-too-tidy categories, and strained associations abound, yet the more one approaches the book as literature and less as a scientific treatise the more one can appreciate the insights throughout. An important book for better understanding oneself, religion, politics, sports fans, high school, and just about anything else.
Want Canetti's invalshoek is ongehoord origineel: de zo brandend actuele verschijnselen massa en macht exploreert hij niet door een grondige analyse van de moderne geschiedenis, maar door een even eigenzinnige als meeslepende exploratie van tientallen mythen uit alle windstreken, van tientallen antropologische teksten over natuurvolkeren of vergeten exotische vorsten, en dat dan gecombineerd met uiterst minutieuze en originele bespreking van teksten van en over schizofrenen, paralytici, lijders aan paranoia en meer.
En hij maakt daarmee ervaringsintensiteiten voelbaar of zichtbaar die je in een conventionele wetenschappelijke of beschouwelijke tekst niet zult zien.De eerste zinnen van het boek luiden bijvoorbeeld: "Voor niets is de mens meer beducht dan voor aanraking door iets onbekends.
probably too rooted in a post wwII world view to have more theoretical staying power than something less contemporaneously minded, Canetti's ultimate point - all of his wonderful cited primary source digressions aside (the real highlights of the book, imo) - is that we all need to learn how to think and act for ourselves. crowd behavior as rooted in ressentiment, political power as rooted in paranoia. misanthropic and entertaining. too anecdotal to be non-fiction. too documented to be fiction. nietzschean, ultimately.
I read and re-read this book from front to back numerous times. The second half of this book is powerfully insightful. If one approaches this work from the perspective of deeply involved humanness, as literature, rather than austere science with cut and dried methodology, one may come away with a deeper, more comprehensive, and much more circumspect feeling and understanding for the human animal. The insights in this book are raw, to the point, and so far, are the most accurate and imaginative descriptions of the deepest and most embedded motives and behaviors of humankind.
Elias Canetti (a Nobelate in 1981) seems to embody an interdisciplinary fervor in order to uncover patterns related to power and corruption.
Armed with a lifetime of reading in anthropology, psychology, political science and rhetoric--and equipped with a life traversing totalitarian governments, two world wars and knowledge of numerous languages--he weaves together stories of ancient and all-but forgotten cultures (to me, at least) in order to draw implications for modern times.Though confusing at times--though his conclusions often require tremendous leaps of faith--and in spite of the hordes of implicit arguments the reader must tweeze from the haystack, the book is quite profound.It feels epic because of the multitudinous stories.
I thought this was amazing. Crazy crazy book that covers such an amazing range of the topics. All are essentially based about d the tic of crowds of humans mainly and the power associated with them. Highly recommended. Elias brings in a whole range of topics such as panic, rhythm, crowds of people and their types, the dead, hunting packs, native Indians, religious wars, Islam, Christianity, Judaism, Muharram, European nationalities, the destruction of the Xhosas, monkeys, epidemics, questions, commands, Mongols, African culture and the sultan of Delhi. :)
Interesting view of the behavior of crowds and leaders and how they interact and grow. Uses many anthropoligical examples, although some links are more tenuous than others. Extremely interesting.
Sono troppo sopraffata per esprimere un giudizio articolato, nel caso poteri fare una classificazione aka lista da far invidia a Perec del perché questo testo è un'accozzaglia, pardon, un lungo susseguirsi senza filo, di brandelli di pensieri senza capo né coda su cosa sia la massa.
Nobel Prize per questo libro.
Contrariamente a quanto ho finora borbottato, il decadimento del Premio Nobel arriva da lontano.E preciso che le due stelle sono per le pagine iniziali, le sole ben fatte e brillanti (Massa chiusa,aperta,invisibili, masse aizzate, masse in fuga, fino alla classificazione delle mute, ci siamo, bravo Canetti).
There is no introduction and the structure of the book is very loosely held together.
There is no logical progression, just a meandering through ideas loosely related to the themes of crowds and power.
The book is admirable for its erudition and scope, ranging through history, anthropology, mythology, psychology, politics, biology, and more to give us insight into the human condition.
I particularly enjoyed Canetti's discussion of symbols of the crowd, the psychology of teeth and digestion, the hero, and fame.
It's certainly worth reading, I only wish Canetti had provided an introduction to give us a clearer sense of what he specifically intended to achieve and why he chose to include and exclude what he did.
I'll start by saying that I liked reading Crowds and Power, was deeply impressed by the concepts that Canetti develops and invokes, and entertained by the stories and myths he uses to buttress those concepts.But this isn't scientific analysis at all-- it's literature above all else, and should be read in that light.
Keep in mind that Canetti was writing in the structuralist heyday of the late '50s and early '60s-- this was a time when Marshall McLuhan was doing his thing with media, and when the name of Freud still held a mighty sway over psychology.
You could make sweeping statements like these without that much evidence and get away with it.
Les notions et concepts de la philosophie et anthropologie sont réputés, comme ceux du sens commun, pour leur caractère polysémique, équivoque, et redondant (désignant une même réalité construite par convention : symbole, sens, signification ; culture, société, structure).
Au temps fondateur, les ancêtres revêtaient réellement une forme humaine en alternance avec une forme animale, et au moment de performer leurs rites, les clans totémiques actualisent cette métamorphose ; Canetti allant dans ce contexte jusqu'à dire qu'elle est l'apanage de notre espèce.
Métamorphose est ensuite employée dans des directions qui, hors des contextes à religion totémique, semblent irréconciliables et non cohérentes avec ce premier usage (déjà discutable).
La quale non è automaticamente condannata alla sterilità (penso ad esempio agli scritti sulla violenza di Wolfgang Sofsky).Ma in Canetti il risultato è una interminabile sequela di generalizzazioni sull'umano, prive di qualunque base concreta o argomentativa, prive di nessi tra loro.La sensazione è quella, singolare, di qualcuno che al giorno d'oggi provi a scrivere di fisica o chimica usando i metodi in voga al tempo d'Aristotele.Alcuni esempî:La formazione del nazismo secondo Canetti.Il simbolo del popolo tedesco è la foresta.
Il popolo tedesco, privo di esercito, ma sempre in cerca di comando, obbedienza e inquadramento militare ( > esercito > foresta) si è così intruppato nel partito nazista.La formazione del commercio nelle società umane secondo Canetti.I primati usano le mani per muoversi sugli alberi di ramo in ramo.
Because this is what annoys me to no end about books and people in general, when they present their obviously biased and very subjective opinions as the absolute truth emitted by the other worldy authority that they believe they are.
To me, this is mister Canetti presenting his elaborate, pretentious, shallow, completely unsupported by research theories about crowds in the most patronizing and infurating way I've seen in a long time.
I can't event remember why I ever thought I wanted to read this, I guess I expected something about the psychology of crowds, not one guy's opinion spewed from his high horse of elaborate nothingness.
I read about 1/3 of this during college days, oh so long ago, but in a very scattered manner, jumping from segment to segment.
It had a large impact and I've been thinking about it quite a bit lately ...
For those contemplating reading, think Roland Barthe, Levi - Strauss, Eliade, Braudel's annales school (or later generation where the focus was more on "mentalities"), and maybe a touch of Propp's Morphology of the Folktale.
If you've read Jared Diamond and are longing for something with a more European intellectual bent, a bit more philosophy, a lot more poetry, this is a good bet.
This is one of those philosophical works in which the author reimagines the world through one of the lenses of a compound eye.
Here, Canetti considers the human tendency to gather into groups, packs, herds and large crowds.
Having analyzed the different types of crowds, their functions in society, and their typical behaviors, Canetti considers a great many case examples, ranging widely through time, space, and cultures, in which the notion of 'the crowd' provides fresh insights.
I found dazzling new insights and alternative takes on subjects I thought I had settled my mind about long ago.
In terms of ideas per page, it is a great value.
[...]In libreria trovate questo saggio spesso e volentieri negli scaffali di filosofia. Definizione un po' riduttiva, perché Massa e potere racchiude in sé i più svariati campi del sapere: filosofia sì, ma anche antropologia (molto), sociologia (e in verità io la direi più opera sociologica che filosofica), storia, psicanalisi.Ecco, psicanalisi. Strenuo oppositore di Freud e della teoria psicanalitica tutta, Canetti si rivela uno dei più fini psicologi nei quali sia dato imbattersi.È un saggio ponderoso, ma non difficile da leggere. In realtà fa più soggezione che altro.[...]Su: http://sonnenbarke.wordpress.com/2006...
This is one of my favorite books of all time -- perhaps even more so in recent years, with the West finally learning how to become a crowd once again. Canetti's is not a totally straight-forward scholarly account of the psychology of crowd behavior, if that's what you're looking for; but more of a mythological anthropology of its undercurrents and symbols. My favorite being that concerning fire. If you find the book, flip to the section called "Panic," and you will be treated to a history of the modern world.
One of the seminal books of the 20th century -- a synthesis of anthropology, sociology, deep psychology, political science, and folklore as channeled by a brilliant Romanian Jew who witnessed the rise and fall of Hitler and Stalin. So much that seems inexplicable about human behavior makes sense after reading this book.
A long-term dipping-into book. Recommended on a blog by Charles Lemos, at [now defunct] bythefault.com. Goes deeper and wider than Hoffer's "True Believer."Trivia: Canetti is thought to have been Iris Murdoch's model for The Black Prince.
¿sabéis lo que es leer un libro y que se repitan pasajes y situaciones en el sueño?pues eso. Gigante Canetti.
Onlara karşı çıkan her şeyin kendilerine tabi olmasını öylesine ateşli bir biçimde isterler ki bunun için sık sık çok yüksek bir fiyat öderler.→ İnsanlar bir kez çok sayıda köleyi, hayvanları sürüler halinde topladıkları gibi toplamayı başarınca, devletin tiranlığının temelleri atıldı.
Bir yöneticinin bütün bir halka köle ya da hayvan gibi sahip olma arzusunun, halkın sayısıyla arttığı konusunda en ufak bir kuşku dahi duyulamaz.→ Mütecaviz kitlenin hızlı büyümesinin önemli bir nedeni, hiçbir riskin bulunmamasıdır.
Pek çok başka insanla paylaşılan ve yalnızca caiz ve tehlikesiz değil, üstelik teşvik edilen bir cinayet insanların büyük bir çoğunluğu için karşı konulmaz niteliktedir.
Even though I did not understand this book entirely, it made a considerable change in my way of thinking and looking at matters concerning not only crowds and power, but also other human activities and behaviors. I hope I will reread this book after a few years with a more improved and developed mind, and will be able to grasp better the concepts explained by this Nobel winning author.
A book written with an individual, literary sense of research (power) backed up by a litany of references from ancient times to the 1950s (crowd), this book is a paradox of prophesy and outdatedness that strikes a chord due to Canetti's excellent writing.
Some of the borrowed descriptions of rituals and events in different cultures are fascinating, while Canetti's writing is strongest when it is metaphorical and descriptive.
On rare occasions in this monumental book the writing gets slow or old-fashioned, but 'Crowds and Power' is still a well of information and ideas that resonates today as much as when it was published.
Canetti won the Nobel Prize mostly because of this book about crowds and power and the things that drive civilization and human beings.
Canetti connects most behavior to the will to dominate and kill at best and survive at least and you come out of it, if you come out of it at all (I couldn’t finish it) just going, well, it’s a predatory universe and we’re all boned.
I’d try to get back into it, it’s just dense material.
Some of the best stuff in it is about the perceptions of things as crowds: rain, for example, the ocean, a forest, money, herds of animals.
Fouad Ajami: "In trying to grapple with, and write about, the Obama phenomenon, I found guidance in a book of breathtaking erudition, "Crowds and Power" (1962) by the Nobel laureate Elias Canetti.
Born in Bulgaria in 1905 and educated in Vienna and Britain, Canetti was unmatched in his understanding of the passions, and the delusions, of crowds.
The crowd is a "mysterious and universal phenomenon," he writes.
It forms where there was nothing before.
I'm sure I'll never read the whole thing, but it is a lot of fun to sample randomly. Best lines so far: “To the crowd in its nakedness, everything seems a Bastille.”“Everyone belonging to such a crowd carries within him a small traitor who wants to eat, drink, make love, and be left alone.”
