https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/783505.Embers
A staunch anti-fascist following the rise of the iron curtain, Marai was forced to flee his homeland and lived out his remaining days in California.
A throwback to a time when royalty living in isolated castles was a common practice in Europe, Embers reveals an intimate look at life and relationships.
Henrik has turned 75 and has lived with his nurse Nini, aged 91, in a castle outside of Vienna for the past 41 years.
After the incident, Konrad fled to the Tropics while Henrik remained in his castle, alone.
Marai also posed an intriguing view on friendships and relationships that left me captivated by the novel through its closure.
The translated lyrics go like this:Memory, You are the indiscernible breeze of a spring evening;Memory, You are the seething ember beneath the ash;Memory, You are the dancer’s teasing frill at a temple’s entrance;Memory, You are the glimpse of tender moon from the mane of Casuarina trees;Memory, You are the passionate note left behind in a traveller’s lodge;Memory, You are the departed lover’s village… Memory, You are the red stain on the stone guarding shoreline;Memory, You are the dusk’s glow that lights up a dull widow’s countenance;Memory, You are the paper boat on the river that won’t reappear;Memory, are you not my treasured Beloved?As I read Embers, this song hung heavily on my psyche due to its similar metaphorical luminosity: 
Beautiful words that form sentences that makes one stop and think.
Friendship, the most expressive definition of a friendship between two men from different backgrounds that I have ever read.
Betrayal, love, pride and at the last a definition of aging that is searing.I cannot say enough about the experience of reading this book except to say it is one that I will long remember and that I must seek out more of this amazing author's work.
One quote from the book had me thinking about it on and off all day,"It is not true that fate slips silently into our lives.
But it is the handling of these themes which is.Sándor Márai has a way of creating a mood consistent with the dreariness of the story within and it is this mood which metamorphoses into an important character itself.
He ends up imparting a restrained elegance even to the meanest of human tendencies like the insane urge to kill another and to the chilling finality in a man's feelings of disillusionment with life and the people he held dear to his heart.It is as if Márai's aim from the beginning had been not to bestow significance on numerous life events of a handful of people but instead on an acute analysis of human actions and how individual acts of indiscretion feature in the greater scheme of things.
Then one day, when the two men were 34 years old, they went hunting and Henrik saw that Konrad was aiming his gun at him.
Later that day, the three, Henrik, Konrad and Krisztina, had their last dinner together in Henrik’s castle.
From that day on, Hendrik and Krisztina separated by living in the different buildings in Henrik’s property.
What follows next is the slow and engrossing unfolding of truth on what happened 41 years ago: during the hunt, the dinner and the day at Konrad’s apartment.
For 41 years, Hendrik only thought of that day and he waited for Konrad’s return to know the truth.
Embers presents some of the loveliest, most elegant writing I have encountered this year.
I would like to read the novel Marai might have written about the ninety-one year old Nini.
Early on, it seemed as if Marai intended to make her more central to the plot, but alas, he chose otherwise.I am glad I read Embers and will look for others of Marai's novels as they become available in English translations; however, I will not press this one into friends' hands and insist that they do so.
What initially looked like a nostalgic encounter between close friends, gradually acquires shades of darker colors that escalate in intrigue and dramatic tension until the facts that ruined the lives of these two gentlemen are brought into full light by the ruthless evidence of words.
Passion might be the real motor of existence, but Márai’s tale reminds us that reconciliation, and words, are required to give way to the future, regardless of how dark that future might be.
He has a growing popularity post-death, due to his work, but also his troubled life, that is mirrored by Hungary's grave misfortunes in the 20th century, and it's sad to think at the time he took his own life in California of all places in 1989, the literary world still knew little of him.
Some may also be disappointed by the fact the final act goes out with a whimper rather than a wallop, but for the type of story Márai has written, It ends up being the right way to see it through, and give some sort of closure for the two men.
“We will talk these things through once more, try to establish the truth and then go to our deaths, I in this house, you somewhere else…”My impression of Hungarian authors so far has been that they really know how to write dark and depressing gems.
Embers is just that, and possibly the saddest and loneliest little book I’ve read in a while.
Familiar themes abound here: love, betrayal, regret.
This was a claustrophobic, beautiful-sad reading experience.
Interestingly, this was the first time that I recall reading something that made me understand, at least a little, what it must feel like for those who love a tortured soul.
I almost felt like apologizing.
I HATE books that think telling you this is the same as actually having any meaning.
OHB was essentially a series of conversations to tell the protagonist about life issues that mattered to the author.
I didn't need to be miserable to know that people talk up stuff to the point it resembles a bad soap opera with themselves as the lead (with looks and charm enough to rescue them from the fast paced world of fashion modeling for K-Mart fashions).
Just that kind of happening which is shit.
I would need my own chin and ass wiped.
And if we do not love that person in a way that makes her happy, do we have the right to expect fidelity or any other sacrifice?Do you also believe that what gives our lives their meaning is the passion that suddenly invades our heart, soul and body, and burns in us forever, no matter what else happens in our lives?....
It takes Sandor Marai 133 pages to pose his question, and another 70 pages to say that he doesn't need to hear the answer.The real failure of this book is that Marai creates the background of a few other characters who are far more appealing than the silver spoon fed Henrik, but these take such a backseat to the bourgeous baby that I wondered why Marai bothered to go into such detail of them.
I would much rather hear the story of Nini, Henrik's lifelong nurse, or Konrad, his conflicted best friend.
Fenomenalan roman mađarskog modernog klasika... MUST READ!
Eppure erano intimi amici fin dall'adolescenza benché, o forse proprio perché, tanto diversi : uno ricco, razionale, militaresco; l'altro di famiglia non abbiente, di temperamento artistico, amante della musica.Perché dunque un così lungo periodo di voluto allontanamento ?Fra di loro c'è l'impalpabile presenza di una donna, ormai defunta da decenni : un 'bel fantasma' che ha segnato la vita dei due.Ora il Generale ha delle questioni da porre, le quali da strettamente private diventano esistenziali.
How do you untie knots you cannot see, invisible ropes slung around you? Freudian landscapes of unconditional love sought by birthrate, unfound. Does one spend life seeking? But how does one ever know? Even if found is it right, will it disappear, leave, be taken? Or does one live a life only in forward motion? The perspective changes when one is elderly, looking back on perspectives with an old friend one hasn't seen in forty years.Within is a book of links and linkages, of the tryst of duty w
This book is literature conquering time.
The enchanting elegiac prose fascinates the reader under the currents of its multilayered meanings.Why is this person returning after forty one years absence to visit this friend living in a mansion in a dark wood?
This book sets forth one who has structured-in passions through the locked steel joints of military discipline and conformed social customs leading to popularity, with another whose nature is beguiled by art.
Márai places them within the sweet bounds of unconditional friendship from an early age.
Within the simple spare prose an unsparing, deep dive into the darkened fathoms of life takes place.
Is it possible there are some books one never leaves.
Do you also believe that what gives our lives their meaning is the passion that suddenly invades us heart, soul, and body, and burns in us forever, no matter what else happens in our lives? And that if we have experienced this much, then perhaps we haven’t lived in vain? Is passion so deep and terrible and magnificent and inhuman? Embers reads as a memoir with all the strength, verve, and emotions that a solitary perspective can bring. The incertitude of the narrator’s voice, the lack of defens
Do you also believe that what gives our lives their meaning is the passion that suddenly invades us heart, soul, and body, and burns in us forever, no matter what else happens in our lives?
It takes a long time, many lonely hours, to teach myself that it is always and exclusively about the fact that between men and women, friends and acquaintances, there is this of question of otherness, and that the human race is divided into two camps.
I always thought there had to be a more plausible way to talk about differences among human beings, something other than the divisions of race, class, education, nationality.
Although easy to read in the realm of word choice; the descriptive language in Embers is nothing short of gorgeous and poetic with heavy depth.
Marai’s style is comparable to Tolstoy in the philosophical aspect and to Thomas Hardy in his depth of understanding human emotion.
Embers begins with elements of dark and sinister essences looming over the plot, but this is what makes it so captivating and tragic: a pure classic.
Simply, Embers is a classic book which will affect you but differently at various points of your life, thus, making it ideal for multiple reads.
In our modern age, I think we tend to glamorize the turn-of-the-century upper classes.
And there’s always some garden party somewhere with lots of flowers.Funny thing though, authors who lived through this period don’t write about it that way.
Today we talk about EVERYTHING.
The tale is told slowly, almost too slowly probably for most modern readers (including me).
The General has had a lot of time to think about what has happened and he has dwelled on it, rationalized it and philosophized about it (which also seems to be a big turn-of-the-century pastime).
And at the end he finally talks about it.
“So he’s come back,” he said aloud, standing in the middle of the room. “Forty-one years and forty-three days later”.  “ These words seemed suddenly to exhaust him, as if he had only just understood the enormousness of forty-one years and forty-three days. He swayed, then sat down in the leather armchair with its worn back. On the little table within reach of his hand was a little silver bell, which he rang… Oh my, a depressing but brilliant book. A tale of loss but so beautifully portrayed. Re
“So he’s come back,” he said aloud, standing in the middle of the room. “Forty-one years and forty-three days later”.

  “ These words seemed suddenly to exhaust him, as if he had only just understood the enormousness of forty-one years and forty-three days. He swayed, then sat down in the leather armchair with its worn back. On the little table within reach of his hand was a little silver bell, which he rang…
Oh my, a depressing but brilliant book. A tale of loss but so beautifully portrayed. Read it!
Fortunately, the world at large did not feel the need to wrest this slowly wrought jewel from its protective nest, unlike its more physically cohesive counterpart.The writing grasped at beauty in form as often as some books grasp at plot or characters.
While it is true that other authors have done it better, I had not yet run across one who have devoted as much of their mental capacities to the thought of old age, and come up with conclusions that are utterly heartbreaking in their beauty.
Non vogliamo capire che sono i fatti l'unica verità.Perché altrimenti consumeremmo le nostre relazioni a furia di parole, parole sussurrate, urlate, parole commosse, parole tristi, parole vere, spesso parole false.
Le cerchiamo perché non vogliamo e non possiamo credere ai fatti, è come se volessimo dare l'opportunità di cambiare le cose a chi ci ha fatto del male.
Lo volevi fare veramente?..."Allevieranno forse il nostro dolore queste domande?Quale subdola forma di masochismo si nasconde dietro a tutto ciò?"I fatti, sono l'unica verità, parlano da soli, come si suol dire, e verso la fine della vita tutti i fatti messi insieme lanciano accuse urlano a squarciagola.
Per dire cose che si potevano dire in qualche riga, l'autore impiega decine di pagine ripetendo anche più volte lo stesso concetto, certo delle sue convinzioni tanto che pone domande e si risponde da solo.A pagina centosessantasei su centosettantadue, l'interlocutore del generale - il protagonista autore del pedante monologo - dice: "Credo che ormai abbiamo parlato di tutto.
Ha detto per tutto il libro che voleva la verità e non ha fatto altro che dirla da solo!
People like discovery.
Oh, people really like that!
Instead, a word or two about the reading experience and the road to insanity.My last read was 'The Gate' by Natsume Sōseki.
There was even a picture of a gate on the cover of the book.
Ruminating on that is The Gate that gets you into The Way. I would get kicked out of zen school because I like shortcuts and glib renderings and thought about that koan just long enough to consider history as some long river that any individual changes just by dipping his toe in.
There is a gate on the cover.
One can also shape what happens to one.
O principal elemento que retiro desta leitura não é novo porque é um dos principais princípios do budismo, mas é no entanto sempre bom ir sendo relembrado deste: Tudo é Impermanente.
Contudo até lá chegar o livro arrasta-se, como se nos estivesse a preparar, a criar embalo para o embate, que consegue que aconteça, e acredito ser uma das principais razões porque o livro é tão recordado.
Ainda assim, o modo como vamos desvelando a informação sobre o que aconteceu, os comos e os porquês num tom muito peculiar, vamos nos deixando levar pelo embalo do autor.Márai escreveu esta obra com 42 anos, e isso é por demais evidente no tratamento realizado do tema.
E ci sono le braci, presenza intima e misteriosa, nel camino.Sono passati quarantuno anni dal giorno in cui Konrad se ne è andato improvvisamente.
Non poteva fare diversamente.Quarantuno anni passati in solitudine attendendo quel momento.
Il momento della verità, della vendetta, dell'amore, del perdono o della condanna.La fissità dell'attesa consuma e cristallizza.
La sua essenza più segreta.Henrik non lo ha aperto.
Ma Konrad non lo prende.
D’improvviso, tra le fiamme, appare la scrittura di Krisztina, poi tutto si scompone e si dissolve in cenere.“L'uomo vive finché ha qualcosa da fare su questa terra”.E alla fine, che rimane?
In a way, one could say that nothing really happens in this book, except memories and thoughts.
And it is true, the first half of the book consists of the main character's (the General) memories of his childhood.
In this book, the General spends a lifetime reflecting upon what makes up a character and how that character unfolds in a person.
It also enclosed memories as if they were the dead, memories that lurked in damp corners the way mushrooms, bats, rats, and beetles lurk in the mildewed cellars of old houses.
Dopo quarant'anni, due uomini ormai anziani, che sono stati amici inseparabili, si incontrano nella dimora di uno dei due, un castello ai piedi dei Carpazi, e si affrontano, cercando risposte a ciò che ha causato la rottura della loro amicizia, e l'allontamento dell'uno dall'altro.
Un duello senza spade, crudele ma necessario, una profonda riflessione sull'amicizia, sulla profondità di certi rapporti, sulla lealtà, un filo di tensione che cresce, con un ritmo implacabile e inesorabile, pagina dopo pagina, alla ricerca di una verità forse mai davvero svelata, condito da una prosa elegante, nitida, senza macchie.Il mio primo incontro con Sandor Marai si è rivelato una lettura struggente e potente.Sarà apprezzato in particolar modo da chi ama i classici, grazie alla sua scruttura raffinata, capace di fissarsi nella mente del lettore per quanto,a livello di diegesi, non sia un romanzo in cui le azioni abbondano.
"Le candele ardono fino a consumarsi completamente"Se la prima metà, per quanto ben scritta e anche 
Poate cel mai emoționant roman despre prietenie citit de mine vreodată.Povestea e simplă: doi bărbaţi legaţi de o nemaiîntâlnită prietenie iubesc aceeaşi femeie, soţia unuia dintre ei.
De această dată, lumânările vor arde până la capăt și vor arăta cum s-au topit, o dată cu ele, duşmănia, furia, patima şi revolta, lăsând loc acceptării, asumării și iertării: “Cât valorează prietenia în care iubim în celălat virtutea, devotamentul şi tenacitatea?
Oare nu ăsta e adevăratul conţinut al relaţiilor dintre oameni, această lipsă de egoism care nu doreşte şi nu vrea absolut nimic de la celălat?
3.5 O tema é interessante e a história surpreende. O pior é mesmo a tradução. Queria ler outros livros do autor, mas traduzidos por outra pessoa...
