https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/500743.The_Wizard_Heir
3.5 starsThe first book was about Warriors, so now it's time to find out about the Wizards!I do think I was a bit more invested in the characters this time around, so I've got to bump the rating up just a tad for this one.
And since Seph is untrained, it looks like Principal McEvil will win!Until two little mice show up to save him!Or...no.
Um. Yeah, I think I may have seen the mice thing somewhere else.My memory isn't what it used to be, you know?Don't judge.Look, I enjoyed this book quite a bit, even though it wasn't the bestsest thing I've ever read.
This third one doesn't stop and he actually uses his magic to get girls..
He grew on me though and he's a better character than Jack.
I liked Jason, (He was a better character than Seph) I wish he'd been in it more, that we got to see them playing around with magic instead of just being told about it.
There are two mysteries in Wizard; Who are Seph's parents and who is the Dragon.
At about halfway, the characters from the first book show up and it got much better!
I like her better, even if she is more of a caricature.
Awesome...
so awesome!I still can't believe this simple, brilliant series.A friend sent me my own personal copy of this book.
I retrieved it from the mail on Monday.I finished it last night.Those 24 hours are a blur.I cried in relief when, halfway through the book, Linda Downey announced her arrival.
So many endearing characters...Several times I found myself thinking "well why don't they just..." or "If only..." only to realize that, alas, with all of the fantasy books I have read of late, I was mixing up some various and completely different series!
I liked that Seph was portrayed as a practicing Catholic (being a Baptised and Confirmed Catholic myself though a bit out of practice at the moment), and NOT portrayed as a crazy, religious loon like so many *ignorant* people believe Catholics are (eating real flesh/blood at Mass...what?!
Ignorant jack@sses need to brush up on the real meaning of being [Roman] Catholic!).
(NOTE: This isn't a religious book, the main character just happens to have religion, like the majority of the US population.) I felt like there was a little something missing but couldn't quite put my finger on it, but it's still a great story.
This was so amazing!I mean, The Warrior Heir was pretty good but this just kicked it up a notch.I literally didn't want to put it down on a night.The perfect way to finish off April!
The headmaster, Gregory Leicester, takes advantage of the fact that the wizards who go to his school are untrained and aren't affiliated with either of the two warring houses (the Red Rose and the White Rose), and the wizards that come to his school are mentally tortured by nightmares until they agree to link to Leicester.
Seph refuses and nearly dies after months of mental torture, until his "guardian" comes to pick him up from the Havens, when Leicester has almost beaten Seph to death.
Read this book to find out what happens!
and trust me, i've read, like, every great fantasy/ fiction book for YA .
Then out of the blue the antagonists stooges come out and beat the main character up.
Some of the secondary characters are actually more vivid than the primary characters, namely Filtch, I have more of a sense of who he is than most of the main characters, I've never seen that (like this) in a book, in movies, but not in books.It would have been much more enjoyable if it had been about Seph staying at the Havens and trying to get away.
Sure her characters are colorless and sterotypical (it seemes like every wizard except Leander, Snowbeard, and some other random guy mention for the purpose of killing are the only good wizards, none of the others seem to have an ounce of humanity.) All the antagonists and protagonists are the same.
Weird things happen around Seph--birds attacking, explosions, fires--and the last time, somebody died.
Wonder of all wonders, the headmaster, Gregory Leicester, is a wizard, and wants to train Seph!
The more Leicester wants him to do something, the less Seph is willing to give in.
The more Leicester wants him to do something, the less Seph is willing to give in.
There is another book written by the author that fits in the timeline before this, called THE WARRIOR HEIR.
That book is not at all necessary to read first.
I haven't read it yet, and I really liked this book.
ACTUAL RATING: 3.5 STARSThis sequel was quite a great improvement from the first book (I've read this in one day and that rarely happens). Way more engaging in my opinion and less predictable. I found Seph, the main character, way more likeable than Jack or at least less whinny and more sensible and useful. And I'm kind of intrigued to see how the third book goes.
The Warrior Heir didn't end on a cliffhanger, so I thought she might start up with an entirely new cast of characters.
Seph is an untrained orphan wizard who has spent his life in boarding schools and is haunted by strange fires and other unexplained accidents caused by releases of his wizard power.
:-)While I found this book more predictable than The Warrior Heir, I think The Dragon Heir is a strong finish to this series, so it's worth reading this book if only to round out your understanding of the world Chima has created.
Great book. Amazing plot,lots of character development and breath-taking twists!! I would write more but i'm kinda sick so i can't. But anyway,its a lovely book full of adventure and suspense and a bit of romance :)
This was a reread for meI liked this more than the first book in the seriesThere was more mystery and intrigue I liked the character development
In Chima’s captivating novel (the sequel to “The Warrior Heir”), she describes Seph McCauley’s evolution from being a young, untrained wizard in captivity to one of the worlds most powerful wizards.
Seph does all that he possibly can to save the people that he loves.
When all was hopeless at Second Sister, he was brave and outsmarted two of the most powerful wizards in the world.
In the story, after escaping from the Havens, Jason felt useless because he was nowhere near as powerful as many of the wizards working for the Silver Dragon.
I really liked the Warrior Heir and I think I flew though this novel even faster than the first book.
I think it's interesting that the author wrote the first book about a warrior--the lowest ranking member of the Weir society-- and chose a wizard (the highest) for the second.
and it worked well that they ended up friends anyway even though they were so different.
I admit I went back and re-read a certain section once I knew who his mom was, just to see it through a different lens.
I'm very anxious to read her next book...The Dragon Heir.

Still not convinced by this series at all. The writing is good and the story interesting but somehow I feel no attachment to the characters and just I don't know something really did not work for me.That said Seph and Jason were more interesting to me than the previous characters. I'll keep reading in the spirit of no new books until I have read the ones on my shelf but meh altogher
Honestly, when I started this book, I didn't have high hopes. The first one intrigued me enough to read the second one, but I wasn't too fond of it. Then I read this one, and I was blown away. It's was an amazing book, and the storyline kept me on the edge of my seat. It was full of twists and turns, and I loved it. Also, the fantasy was explained much better in this book than in the first one. I highly recommend.
Like I said before, I don't want to spoil anything so I'll just sum it up by saying that I love how this author shows this couple getting to know each other, showing how they care for one another, instead of trying to cram a bunch of milestones into one book and hoping that will convey the characters' feelings.World-Building: With the previous installment in this series ending in a fairly tied up way I was interested in seeing how the plot could be moved forward.
After a long while I finally picked up the first book, Warrior Heir.Warrior Heir was good...
So, despite every intention of continuing the series, I never picked up book two, The Wizard Heir.I should never have doubted the author because, while still not 'outstanding', it was sooooo good.
I figured it out, pat on my back, but I loved it anyway.So, yeah, I'm already reading the 3rd book and guess what!
It's also got Jack, and all the other characters that were introduced in the first and second books.So, if you're like me and tend to not like series that switch MC's, don't let that hold you back with this series.
i bought the wizard heir a few years back, not knowing it was the second book to a series.
i started reading the book immediately taken by the colossal event that eventually sends Joseph (Seph) to the havens.
not to give too much away but at the havens Seph then eventually meets Jason another wizard who refuses to join the alumni as well.
finally when Seph eventually escapes and makes it to the town of trinity the story really picks up.
the eventual ending of the wizard heir was amazing!
immediately purchasing both and reading them all in sequence i was completely taken with the whole series.
Chima did better with the pacing in this than she did in The Warrior Heir, and yet there were still so many times where it felt like she didn't really take the time to flesh out scenes or explain just a little bit more about why they were so significant to begin with that they would be worth mentioning in passing.Ah, but I'm getting ahead of myself.So in this book, we have a new MC, Seph McCauley.
As it turns out, a portion of the school are wizard Weir while the rest are simply troubled kids sent to The Havens for rehabilitation, and the headmaster is a creepy, power-hungry tyrant named Gregory Leicester, who apparently has no compunctions about torturing students in order to keep them in line and make them do what he wants.
It is interesting because in most fantasy books I’ve read the environment is almost as much a character as the people in the story.
I will say that I prefer straight up fantasy but this series is growing on me.CWC writing has definitely grown since her first book.
The ending was smart, suspenseful and action packed so I will forgive the lull while Seph was at the school.While this is not my favorite fantasy series, this book was stronger and the overall story of the guilds is becoming clearer.
If you like strictly fantasy I recommend reading The Seven Realms Series by CWC.
When I first read this book I was perhaps 12 and more likely 11.
I had snuck into my older sisters room and was nosing through her stuff (Like only a much younger sibling can do) and I stumbled across her copy of the Wizard Heir.
I was on a hunt for Seph, completely desperate to find real people that mirrored anything like the people in my book.
The side characters Jason, Madison, Linda, Jack, and all the rest are so very realistic.Oh. Just go read it, yeah?
He was a young wizard, with no training, leaking power.
He was placed in his fourth school in three years.
This school was run by a wizard, whose objective was to use the abilities of every young wizard that found his way there.
There, Seph will learn the truth about his parentage and get training on his skills.
For the first time, he will have friends and feel like he belongs somewhere.
I was happy to see characters from the first book in the series also were in this book.
Also, this series mostly takes place in the United States, and in present time.
The 2nd in the series, this tale is a worthy companion to the Warrior Heir and leaves you hungry for Dragon Heir.
He knows he is a wizard and desperately wants to find a teacher so he can learn to understand, control and develop his powers but no teacher has been forthcoming as he is shunted from one boarding school to another.
He leaves a trail of unintended destruction behind that only adds to his need to find a teacher.
The headmaster is a master wizard who wants Seph to join his magical collaborative.
Reading this book again ten years later, it’s still as amazing as the first time. I kept not wanting it to end like the first time I read it. The characters, the magic, everything is well done. My only critique is I don’t believe the author addressed the effects of trauma upon the main character. Besides that it still remains one of my favorite books. Highly recommended.
Nope. I was wrong. This book turned out not to be better than the last one, it just gone more like a soap opera. Will not be continuing the series.
I read this series out of order, so this one didn't have such a great feel. But most of that's my fault.
Seph has been kicked out of a number of schools, but not because he is a bad kid, but because he is different.
If he wants to escape, he’s going to have to learn to control and harness his magic, but how can he do that with no one to teach him?I thought this was an incredible book.
While it has many great things about it that would be enjoyable to read in any book, it is mainly just a cool, fictional book meant for entertainment.My personal favorite quote from this book is when the main character, Seph, says to his friend at the Havens, “Well, I’m already half-way under.
