https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5217282-secrets-of-the-dragon-sanctuary
GUYS. This is a five star, first class series right here. DAMN THAT WAS SO GOOD!!!! I am so incredibly upset that I left book five at my apartment and will have to wait an entire 5 or 6 hours to continue with this series.
bad mister mull ending on a cliffhanger like that.i did love the completely different take on dragons.two special words: fairy dragon.
Brandon is great at making likable (as well as ones we love to hate) and well-rounded characters.
He is also doing even better at giving each character a unique voice.Setting: The dragon sanctuary was cool and Brandon did a good job in narrating their passage through mazes and traps.Conflict: The action was even more intense and scattered throughout the book on this one, which I feel was a great improvement over the previous books.Plot: I like how Brandon makes each book feel complete, and yet we know there is more to come.
In fact, one more book in the series, to be precise.
I anxiously await the final book in the series.
In this one they visit a preserve for dragons, wyrmroost, strange changes are wrought in Seth, and the society go farther than they ever have.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هشتم ماه ژانویه سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: پنجگانه افسانه 4 اسرار پناهگاه اژدها؛ نویسنده: براندن (براندون) مال (مول)؛ مترجم: میلاد فشتمی؛ تهران، بهنام، 1390، در 527 ص؛ از مجموعه پنجگانه افسانه - کتاب چهارم؛ شابک: 9789645668783؛ موضوع: داستانهای کودکان از نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 21 مرقابت دو گروه «شوالیه‌ های سحرگاه» و «انجمن ستاره مغرب» بر سر به دست آوردن ابزارها و طلسم‌های مخفی است.
OMG.....Mind=BlownFreaking Amazing, Awesome, and packed with Action.Loved every page of it.....especially that ending Omo!!
things are a little dicey in this one
The series pace quickened even more in the third, and the fourth did not let me down for action, strong characters, unique creatures and situations - but now I have to wait for the LAST book to come!!
Ack!Brandon Mull can write an action sequence like no one else, excellent visuals with rapid fire motion that I can follow.
This means the world to me, and makes the unfolding story a constant delightful discovery.A bit darker than the last three books, this one contains a couple of good, startling revelations about characters you have known and liked in the prior - and leaves just enough room at the end to keep your feet dangling.
This book was shocking, but my predicting skills were correct in some ways.
As I predicted, and not only a traitor, but he's also Naravog, the demon dragon prince.
And so many things were left unanswered, like when Gavin was wearing the truth choker, and he said he had feelings for Kendra.
in a good way.
And like, I'm really rooting for Vanessa to turn out good in the end, she is still not forgiven for the things she's done.
I almost didn't want to finish this book, because I was afraid of who would end up betraying who next, and I almost couldn't take it.5/5, overall this book was really good.
Oh, my. Oh, my. I think I am too into the story. I pride myself in being able to outguess authors. Somehow, I forgot to even try as I read this book. How in the world can an author stay so original for so many pages in a row? This series certainly has the capacity to overtake Harry Potter on the "Freak, that was awesome!" scale. We'll see if Mull pulls it off in the last book.
And it is very action packed, so for those who like a high amount of action and don't mind sort of shallow characters and rationales for that action, then I'm sure it's a very exciting book.But therein lies my problem - the characterization remains weak, and this is doubly disappointing 'cause it's one of the things I liked about the first book - the development of Seth and Kendra.
And (view spoiler)[Gavin was probably my favorite character of the series, so I should've felt more when he ended up being a bad guy, breaking Kendra's heart, and then getting eaten!
I just finished reading my PERSONALLY SIGNED COPY of the book last night.
Being that it was personally signed by the author means my book was more exciting than just a regular book.
And man, was it a slam to my gut.This book is a little darker than the previous ones.
There is plenty of light to offset the dark though.I continue to love the witty dialogue and the great characters.
Maybe I read too much into it, maybe I don't, but it seems that there are plenty of subtle lessons on choosing the right or what happens when you choose the wrong, about trust, courage, faith, etc.
Don't expect ANY insights into human nature.
Fablehaven is like playing video games...its fun and captures your imagination but is utterly unfulfilling and something that you would probably rather not admit to your new friends.Now if I haven't scared you off from it yet, then, read it and enjoy some comical dialogue (exactly "some") and an original fantasy.
I especially enjoyed all the scenes with the satyrs.
If Mull could write all the story as well as he brings the satyrs to life, then, he could quickly dominate the juvenile fantasy market.
Satyrs and settings are great...writing style and insight not so much.
{December 17th, 2014} MINI-REVIEW3.5 stars, would have been 4 to 4.5 originally--reason why in spoilers. “What you call idiot points, I call awesome dollars." DRAGONS. This has certainly been one of my fave books but something happened with dinged some starpower for me. Idk. It just made me go NOPE. Honestly it wasn't Seth--Seth, oh he's definitely grown and I've gotten used to his unique brand of stupidity. And everyone else is just perfect as well. The story itself just continues to build and
There's just something magical about this series...So where did this go wrong for me, inevitably making me dock points?
(view spoiler)[I honestly can't believe Mull pulled a Professor Quirrell with Gavin.
It's kind of one of those one time deals where if it's been done before by someone popular and/or famous, don't attempt it because you might induce rage and frustration in readers like me, that ADORE Harry Potter, especially when Gavin was such an endearing character compared to Professor Quirrell--let's face it, I never really trusted that guy where I trusted Gavin.
Anyways, to the book,It started off when Kendra got kidnapped when she was working at the day-care, and a stingbulb took place.
Kendra then is stuck there until she gets some outside help.
Once she is freed they go and travel to the Dragon Sanctuary in fear that the society will find one of the last keys to unlock the demon prison.
Kendra then realizes that she is not dealing with Gavin, but Navarog, the demon prince.
Disguised as Gavin, he secretly attacks Kendra, when a dragon that helped Kendra along the way that was raised by faries, comes along and eats him.
I am so glad I finished this book. It was definitely long,535 pages to be exact. But it was totally worth it when I finished it. I am not going to give it away though because I know there are people like Liam Michael and Nishi who want to read the series.
This book was amazing, I think the best in the series.
Books 2 + 3 are like a huge lie!
I mean with Gavin not being real, and Naravog pretending to be him, how can Kendra trust anyone anymore?
I do agree with her though: The only person she can really trust is Seth.
Trust no one but yourself.
Kendra learns that the hard way.
I hate that Dougan was eaten by Gavin (Naravog) and I hate what happens to Warren (I'm sure Bubda won't care).
So anyway, I love this book, and I love Kendra and Seth.
Such a wonderful world, full of equally wonderful characters...Kendra and Seth have returned home for school after the rather eventful summer they've experienced in Fablehaven, what with Seth being eaten by Olloch, Warren saved from the revenant's curse, the Sorensons retrieving the preserve's artifact, and the Shadow Plague nearly making the whole place be destroyed.
Vanessa helped them, Maddox was actually a stingbulb, Thronis who sounded like an enemy was the one to save them, the Dragon King's son was the one who rescued Kendra the most even if her mission's goal went against his honor as a dragon, and Gavin was Navarog!!!Oh. My.
Of course, the final book is the climax of the action but I love the excitement and intensity of book 4 best.It has been really neat to see Seth and Kendra progress and change through the novels, especially as I have been trying to pay extra attention to their character journeys this time around:) Seth starts as an incorrigible, immature, and rather stupid 10 year old.
And this series is one of the best at it!This book has one of the most incredible plot twists I have ever read.
Mull is so underappreciated and this sequel definitely highlights that.
I also loved how the balanced this age barrier and their personalities out, especially how Seth was still childish at times with his pranks and antics.
Raxtus, however, definitely gives Warren some competition as my favourite character.
I also love that even though it’s a middle grade story, it doesn’t hold back it’s punch.
It’s gritty and raw and definitely gets heavy at times.
It’s violent at times but never needlessly so.
I love these characters sooo much, and that we got to meet some new ones in this sequel.
[image error]NOT COOL. NOT FUCKING COOL. I AM UPSET. #tooemotionallyinvestedinthisseries
he looks soooo cool as a dragon, it must be hard to control your 'dragon' desires adn thus why one of the team was eaten and another accidently hit by his tail.
Gavin is going to save them all (at least those not accidently killed/hurt) and they will have no problems getting out of there.
and then, he is eaten--totally--gone.
i did not like how the dragons in the Dragon Temple were all killed.
i still haven't asked them if that shocked them too because i don't want the shocker of the story told to Neil before he gets to read it.
Okay, I must admit I liked it better than some of the others...I really liked the Seth with the shadow thingy and the fact that together they're like, the awesome twins (or, I guess, siblings) of powerful awesomeness.
Some things were predictable (ex: Seth hiding in the little weird bag/room thingy.
Way predictable.) However, I didn't predict the Gavin thing.
But I blame it on the fact that 1) I hadn't read the series in months, which (for me) might as well be a couple of years.
And 2) I was reading it at about 2 in the morning.
I swear, I fainted when I read the ending!
The ending of this book has me eager to get to the final installment of the series.
The ending wasn't a super cliffhanger, but it definitely left some big questions open.
The characters in this series are great.
And Raxtus, who we met in this installment, was excellent as well.
The ending was definitely darker than the previous books have been, but being the penultimate installment in the series, that was to be expected.
And it leaves me desperate for the final book so that I can find all of the answers to my questions!
Me parece alguien completamente temerario y egoísta, y que le hayan dado poderes me re pudre el cerebro porque me parece que, de alguna manera, lo están recompensando por todas las pelotudeces que hizo.
Se podrían haber enterado de cualquier manera que la Esfinge tenía el Oculus.Pero Wyrmroost me encantó desde el primer momento.
Nunca había leído a un personaje tartamudo (aunque este tiene lagunas extrañas en la que dice cosas que le pondrían nervioso sin tartamudear pero bueno ya se sabe por qué) y este me pareció super bien hecho, en especial sobre cómo lidia con esto.
I have enjoyed some of the books more than others, but thought this one was very good.
It did start out a bit slow, I thought, with only small bits of action here and there.
I also loved the small, shiny dragon, Raxtus, who reminded me a bit of Ruth, one of Anne McCaffrey's dragons.Probably my biggest problem with all of the Fablehaven books so far has been Kendra's brother, Seth.
He seems to finally be growing up a bit and considering the consequences of his actions.
I can't wait for the next (and unfortunately last) book in the Fablehaven series!
So far, Fablehaven: Secrets of the Dragon Sanctuary by author Brandon Mull is my favorite in the entire series.
The Fablehaven series thus far as been about the five magical artifacts hidden on select magical preserves (Fablehaven included).
The Society of the Evening Star is after these artifacts in order to unlock the demon prison which basically will allow whoever owns these artifacts to be (for a lack of better words) the king of the world.
This brings main characters Kendra and Seth to the Dragon Sanctuary.
I have to give a lot of credit to author Brandon Mull.
Many other characters are introduced, some of which are far beyond words.Full Review on Husbandandhusband.net
These books have been so fun to read. I don't know why people insist on comparing Fablehaven to Harry Potter. They are both different enough.In 'Secrets of the Dragan Sanctuary' I thoroughly enjoyed Seth's personality. In the first book he bothered me because he messed everything up, but this one he's actually growing into quite the hero. He truly provides the comic relief; sometimes I catch myself chuckling out loud.
4.5. This would be an unquestionable 5-star book, with the exception that growth of character can only be said about the primary antagonists. We know very little of the antagonists that join the main group seeking the artifact, so I did not bond to quite a few of the characters in Fablehaven, as I didn't know much about them. However, the story has backbone, a surprise so amazing, and a cliff-hanger ending ~ I came close to giving this 5 stars anyway. Love the worlds of Brandon Mull!
