https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123518.Galloway
What, he couldn't find a copy of The Sky-Liners and lookup that Flagan already had a girlfriend?
He couldn't throw Galloway a bone and have this one be about him?And that's another thing!
Who writes a book, names it Galloway, and then has the entire story be all about Flagan?
Yeah, Flagan is an even dumber name than Galloway for a book, but he couldn't name it something like, I dunno, "blue-sky country" or something?
In short, this felt like a rush-job.Frankly, it doesn't really deserve a full three stars.
The main characters in this book are Galloway and Flagan Sackett who are brothers.
The book starts out when Flagan is on his way to start a ranch in the Rocky Mountains with his brother who is already there.
He makes his way out of the mountains and finds his brother, but they soon discover that a group of shady ranchers, the Dunns, don’t want them to start their ranch.
This book relates to the world in that everybody always wants a better life for themselves just as Gallaway and Flagan do by trying to start their ranch.
Buck naked and hand-bound, all he can do is run.Galloway and Flagan were searching for a good place to homestead when they ran afoul of the Indians.
When a Sackett is in trouble, the whole family comes on the run to help out.
The two families must now go head-to-head to see who will claim the land.Most of Louis L’Amour’s Sackett audiobooks center on three brothers, Tell, Orrin, and Tyrel.
Perhaps western books just suit Culp’s style a little better, or vice-versa.While Galloway wasn’t my favorite Sackett audiobook, it still had everything I have come to expect from Louis L’Amour.
I was only hoping nobody would ask what I was reading - a book about this naked guy running through the desert with some natives tracking him and this strange wolf following him too.After a run in with a guy named Curly, Flagan finds himself back in civilization, being nursed back to health by a nice looking young lady named Meg.Then the story loses its composure.
A lot of things happen in the blink of an eye; Flagan decides he wants to start a ranch in town, Flagan makes some enemies with the local land grabbers, Flagan sends letters to his Sackett kinfolk asking for help, there is a brawl, there is some shootin'...it only took about 100 pages and we have a dozen characters and a few different story lines.
My voice isn't much, but I often used to tell folks I was a singer, and that I'd sung for crowds of up to three thousand. I didn't tell them I was talking of cows, but they heard my voice and probably guessed.
The title of the book is Galloway but the leading character is his brother Flagan who escapes from an Indian tribe that tries to kill him.
His nemesis, Bull Dunn and his clan would have none of it, in spite of the vastness of the area in which both of them could live.
Bull Dunn is a bully.
Flagan, joined by his brother, Galloway, and cousins are not giving in to bullying.
A further note, Flagan trusts a couple Indians to work for him in herding the cattle to safety after Dunn's men had stampeded them.
The one law that does not change is that everything changes, and the hardship I was bearing today was only a breath away from the pleasures I would have tomorrow, and those pleasures would be all the richer because of the memories of this I was enduring.- I believe in forgiving one's enemies, but keep your hand on your gun while you do it, mentally at least.
Because while you are forgiving him he may be studying ways to get at you.- Gals like the high-spirited, high-headed kind, I've noticed.
I have to read some of the other reviews of this book and I have to agree that I am not sure why it was titled Galloway.
The book is mostly a story about Flagan.
The boys write Parmalee to bring the cattle that he bought during the fight on the Mogollon Rim. Flagan also writes Logan Sackett when it is plain that Flagan and Galloway are going to have trouble with the local toughs, the Dunns.There is lots going on in this book.
I am sure that it is beautiful country.
I also loved the backstory of the wolf and Flagan.
If you like action and fighting then I'm sure you would love this book.
the author does a really good job and going into detail about the fights.
It ends up pulling you into the book so you are right there watching the whole fight go down.
There is also a little romance going on between the two quarreling families.
It adds a very interesting aspect to the story because both men like this girl but they really hate each other and they can't talk about it in front of her so they have to keep it hidden.
How can Louis L'Amour write so many books!
I will need to read another to see if there is a lot of repeat because this seemed like he went all out with information about life on the frontier, outlaw culture, geography, native plants, hunting, ranching, etc.
I was thinking that when you write so many books you hold back for other books.
I liked the story and the writing was smooth.
He even included some interesting insights about life, people, culture, and evolution.
I wonder though if the tough guy portrayal of the old west is overdone.
The dialog between tough guys is probably more witty than reality.

I like most of this author's books but I particularly like the series about the Sacketts. This clan is "all for one and one for all" and particularly suited to the rough life of the frontier. The storyline is much the same as others that I have read; they find a place where they want to build a ranch but someone is already there and objects to that plan. But as with all good stories, they win out in the end. Easy reading. Very entertaining.
Of course I love the Sacketts, even if they are on the rougher side as Galloway and Flagan are. Gold, cattle and obstacles abound. And there is a pretty girl. I enjoyed the book and will continue reading the series. Who would enjoy it? Anyone who enjoys Westerns. I lowered the rating by one star because it is one of the shorter of L'Amour's books and a bit formulaic.
This is the story of Logan and Galloway Sackett in the world of the La Plata Mountains in South-Eastern Colorado. They come up against a family named Dunn that wants to own the country and intends to kill anyone trying to make a home in the country. Sacketts however to not leave a place or die easily. This is another great Sackett tale.
This book was good and everything that you’d expect from a western. There was a colorful, if a bit stereotypical, cast of characters, from the outlaw gunslinger, to the rancher’s daughter. The plot started out with a bang and kept a good pace throughout, although the ending was less climactic than I was hoping. A solid read overall.
I really enjoyed this book. It moved fast for me with the actions and story line. I would recommend this book for middle schooler up to Adults. The language is clean without the worries of sexual scenes. Mr. Lamour'sstories are notorious for keeping his stories clean.
starts off strong, goes strong and finishes strong. Not much on building up a story or trying to be fancy. Just shooting and action. I think they had to put some cattle in it a time or two to make it a cowboy story!short fun read.
Not sure about the title of the book, since it starts and ends with Galloway's brother Flagan, but whatever. I liked this one, too. Especially the wolf.
If you think you don't like westerns....think again!
The later Sacketts kill me. And Sacketts who muse philosophical about wolves are just too much altogether.
it was pretty good I guess.
Was as good the second time through.
One of the most entertaining of the Sackett Series ...
It’s also a good example of flashback narration.It opens with Flagan Sackett in the mountain wilderness, watching a moose being stalked by a pack of wolves.
He’s still naked and has not eaten in three days while expending tons of energy fleeing Apaches, while he can barely walk and is totally lost in the unforgiving, freezing wilderness.- …at which point he notices that he is being stalked by a lone wolf.Seriously, how great is that?
Even one of L’Amour’s best, and he’s very good at that.Meanwhile, Galloway is alternately trying to find Flagan and trying to establish a ranch for both of them.
The story doesn't get much better from there, though we do see L'Amour break his usual narrative technique to play around with some minor POV changes (but he abandons the technique about half-way through the book).
The book is named after Galloway, Flagan's brother, but Galloway doesn't figure into the story much.
He winds up on guard-patrol in in the background, not contributing much to the story.
I couldn't help but wonder if L'Amour mixed up the brothers' names while writing?
Flagan takes center-stage...again.
There's no mention of Flagan's recent past.
The book is about Flagan, and told from Flagan's point of view, and while Galloway is a character in the book, his role can hardly be called central.
I assume that L'Amour just thought "Galloway" would make a better title than "Flagan." He is probably correct.My biggest disappointment with the book is a flaw I find often in L'Amour's writing.
In this case, the book starts off with Flagan running through the woods escaping from Apaches, and ended so abruptly that I thought my diskman had run out of batteries for a moment, until the narrator actually said "The End." It felt like the book dropped off mid-paragraph.
This 1970 book is titled Galloway because I imagine that sounds better than Flagan; Flagan and Galloway Sackett are brothers, last encountered in #11 The Sky-Liners (1967).
After he and Galloway find each other, they have what might be a greater battle convincing Bull Dunn and his gun-happy sons that they have as much right to claim rangeland as he does.Sackett Titles #14 - Galloway was thinking of Flagan Sackett.
Galloway knew what Flagan must do to survive because he knew what he would do -- and because Flagan was his brother in thinking as well as in blood.
The good guy always wins, though he always has a good fist fight and a shoot out along the way.
And I love it.
And I love it.
Louis threw those punches, explored that land.
Loved the land, the stories.
This is a Sackett novel, which involves my favorite characters.
I love how he mentions other of his characters in his novels.
This book was about two brothers, Flagan and Galloway.
I would have called it Flagan, he's the main guy.
Maybe Galloway has a better ring to it.
Anyway, it's a swell book, read in a few hours, great for an escape.
To be honest, I'm starting to get tired of the formula.
But on the very last page, Galloway still gets the girl and the gold.
Maybe for once, I'll read a book where girl and gold aren't part of the conclusion.
I mean, after all, it was on the very last page.
Of course, abrupt ending as well.This book at least had some new elements- a sniper and a stray dog-wolf.
And, it started out uniquely also.
Louis really can write a good story, he just doesn't dare break out of his comfort zone, and Galloway is no different.
Maybe something new will happen there.
I know his prose is a little stilted and unnatural sometimes, but he's the best at telling a cowboy story.I've been looking forward to finding the L'Amour book that began with a naked man escaping from Indians and being chased all over the rugged West, living off the land for several weeks.
I read the book back in the 80s but couldn't remember the title.
So when I decided to fit a western into my normal reading (mysteries), I just grabbed one off the library shelf.
And would you believe, it was the very one I wanted to find!The book isn't really about Galloway.
