https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311166.They_Found_Him_Dead
This kept me guessing!
One of Heyer's better mysteries IMO, the characters are enjoyable if not all likable and the plot clips along at a good pace.
I did have pretty good idea as to who the murderer was, but it didn't spoil the story for me.
The romance was rather sudden starting in chapter one, but it worked and I liked the two of them.
Recommend if you like cozy mysteries that don't leave you confused if you need to put it down for other things.
G A few swears, murder and that's about it.
Chief Inspector Hemingway indicates that he had earlier dealings with the family.
I was tickled to discover that They Found Him Dead was the story of those dealings.While many of the author's mysteries lean more toward solving the case, this one read almost like one of her light and sparkling Regency Romance Comedies.
This became especially true when Jim Kane's step father and mother made an appearance (they turned out to be my favorite characters in the story).
And, I don't mean to sound disloyal here, but between having Superintendent Hannasyde or Chief Inspector Hemingway as the leads for the police investigation, I think I prefer Hemingway.
Enjoyed this very much on Audible. I had read this many years ago, and was reminded of who the murderer was early on. Jim Kane's mother and stepfather were a hoot. Rosemary was a well drawn type and suitably contemptible. All the other characters, except "Terrible" Timothy were bland: vaguely likable or unlikable as the case maybe. I look forward to reading Duplicate Death with features an adult Tim as the lead.
Another genuinely fun Golden Age mystery by Georgette Heyer.On a foggy evening, conservative businessman Silas Kane irritably celebrates his 60th birthday with family and business associates and then proceeds to walk off a cliff - the apparent victim of an accidental fall.
Scotland Yard Superintendent Hannasyde arrives on the scene to determine what's going on in the Kane family that seems to be striking down each heir apparent.
It takes the combined efforts of Hannasyde, Sargent Hemingway, and Jim Kane's prococious 15 year old step brother to solve the case and unmask the killer.As usual, Heyer provides plenty of sparkling dialog and scatters enough red herrings within the plot to make this an enjoyable read.
Police rule the death a terrible accident — until, not a month later, Kane’s great-nephew and heir is murdered.
Or the next victim?While They Found Him Dead is the third of the four novels Georgette Heyer’s Hannasyde series, readers can enjoy the novel without reading earlier books.
In contrast, They Found Him Dead is a breezy, fun read for fans of Dorothy L.
Sure, the characters here are somewhat less than believable, and readers will have figured out the culprit halfway through the novel; however, Heyer’s novel still includes enough thrills and clever wordplay to make the ride worth taking.
This book would be a good choice for those who want to make the transition from Heyer's romances to her mysteries, as it focuses on mostly likable people and has a fair amount of clever dialogue.
But Heyer, like Christie, knows how to pack her stories with lots of potential murderers so you never find yourself thinking that there's really only one viable suspect.
The first time I listened to this - instead of reading it - I actually got my print copy and looked to see if I'd missed some clue as to why they solved it when they did.
One of Heyer's weakest mysteries, with the culprit painfully obvious from around a third of the way through. There is some leavening humour, from Timothy's exploits to Rosemary's incredible narcissism. The (already-settled) romantic relationship falls flat for me, since Jim switches from dismissing and not taking Patricia's concerns seriously to taking them seriously and trying to hide all developments from her. I really can't take "protect the fragile woman" stories.
The only other Heyer mystery I've read (No Wind of Blame) reminded me of Wodehouse. This one made me want to read Wodehouse instead.
Now we can tell that this murder mystery is all about who will inherit, Silas Kane's money and who has the greatest motive to kill.
Everyone has a motive for murder, but who is the real killer and why?Talk about your big whodunit, Georgette Heyer lays out a great murder mystery in her book They Found Him Dead.
Shame on me I know, but I have never even read a Agatha Christy novel, but I am sure Georgette Heyer would rank up there with her in great murder mystery authors.It was a little hard for me to read about times, but most classics are if you are not use to them.
The Grand Sophy has brilliant characters, crackling wit, and just the kind of romance I enjoy; the others, especially the two mysteries, have either unlikeable or unremarkable characters and more banter than real wit.
I found that true of the mystery as a whole, especially compared to the psychological complexity of Agatha Christie or the deductive logic of Arthur Conan Doyle: They Found Him Dead is rather anticlimactic.
I felt like a tighter, more interesting story could have been constructed had Mrs. Kane been Clement's killer and Roberts been only a red herring, rather than the other way around.
Georgette Heyer is a reliable comfort read. Her books are breezy, light, and uncomplicated, typically featuring a murder in a country house. As usual, there are two completely different female characters: one practical and organized, and the other totally bananas; their respective love interests; a host of wacky characters/suspects; one completely nefarious character who is so terrible it's obvious that he is a red herring; and the sensible police detective. Everything gets tidied up in the end - the murder is solved, inheritances are rightly restored, and true love prevails.
This is a mystery by an author who is much better known for her regency romances.
I really enjoyed this easy to read, old fashioned, country house mystery.
This book actually introduces a few characters (members of the Kane and Harte families) who reappear in a later novel, Duplicate Death, which I read before I read this one.
Generally speaking, the writing is a bit slower than that which we have come to expect from more recently published mysteries.
And being Georgette Heyer, she has included just a bit of romance in this novel as well.
Highly recommended for anyone who enjoys a gentle, easy to read novel.
Georgette has a wonderful grasp of the times, more well known for her romance novels, she does a brilliant job with the mysteries.
This one is probably not my favourite, as it goes around in circles a bit and the ending was not as good as it could have been.
But having said that, this book was very enjoyable very much of the golden age type, with a little bit of romance and fun thrown in for good measure.
I did enjoy it very much and o would those who enjoy a bit of escapism mystery of the older type.
We all know the story: patriarch of an old, rich family is found dead; one heir after another ends up the same way, and the most likely suspect is a distant relative who hasn't been seen in years.
Throw in a family that starts turning on each other, a little boy meddling and enthusiastically trying to help the police, and you get a solid, old-fashioned, amusing, and comfy mystery.
The pages turned easily, and I enjoyed the crazy goings-on of this family gathering!*I received a copy from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review*
This was a re-read, but it was so long since I read it the first time that I had forgotten whodunit. It's one of my favorites of her mysteries -- a good puzzle and a lovely romance as well.
Pretty good, but I had it worked out quite early on......
I enjoyed this for the reasons I enjoyed the previous two Inspector Hannasyde mysteries, and my frustration was the same too. I'd say I spent the first fifty pages or so just constantly referring back to the first chapter when the entire cast of characters was introduced to try to keep them straight (especially how they were related to each other). I would say that these aren't the type of books to read in bits if you want to keep track of what's going on. It's best to read it all through at once.
I find that when I read Georgette Heyer novels, I keep on thinking; "Okay this one was better than the last one I read..." then I read this one and it's like: "Okay nevermind, this one was THE BEST one I've read so far!" I have a feeling that's going to keep happening whenever I read one of her mysteries (I still have yet to try her regency ones).
There's a bit of comedy included, with witty backtalk and remarks that will induce a chuckle or two.As I have mentioned previously, the characters in this book were one of the most interesting I've ever read from Heyer's works.
Most of her books (of which there are about fifty five or so) are regency romances a la Jane Austen, twelve of them, however, are crime/mystery novels.
I admit, the murderer was not who I thought it was, but that just made the book even more interesting for me.If you’re a big fan of Agatha Christie like me or if you just like mystery novels, you should definitely give Georgette Heyer a go.
And if mysteries aren’t your thing but romances are, I would definitely suggest checking out of her regency novels.
I think this is my favorite of the Heyer mysteries that I've read so far.
I did guess correctly who-did-it and why about halfway through, but only because I've read way too many mysteries.
One thing that I thought particularly clever was that Heyer had her Inspector go through all the possible culprits the same way the reader is so it's not simply a matter of picking the one suspect that no one is looking at closely.There was very minimal bad language and no sex.
Overall, I'd highly recommend this mystery as well-written and entertaining clean reading.I received this book as a review copy from the publisher.
Silas Kane, principal partner of a prosperous business, falls off a cliff and dies.
Is it an accident or murder?
So now the business changes hands once more, much to the consternation of the extended Kane and Mansell families.
Then it becomes clear that there is more murderous intent floating around.The strength of the book is in the characters.
There's Emily Kane, a cantankerous but not stupid old lady, who looks upon the antics of her family and associates with an unsentimental eye.
There's the young companion who tries to keep the household running, while still savoring her romance with a family member.
A cursory investigation doesn't reveal any evidence of foul play; indeed, at the end of the story, we still don't know for certain that he was murdered.His cousin is his heir and successor to the family business, and he is shot in his study only a few days later.
The next in line is luckier - a couple of "accidents" do not result in his death.Inspector Hannasyde and Sergeant Hemingway are on the case and of course, they eventually solve the case and bring the killer to justice.One of Ms. Heyer's best detective stories.
As usual, a couple of characters have a HEA ending.
Over the summer, I read my first Heyer mystery, "Why Shoot a Butler," which I described as a "romp." But I have to admit that Heyer mysteries just don't have the same spark of life and liveliness as her Regency novels.
Both mysteries I've read have the the same kind of broad age span and type of character, including a romantic pairing, as the novels, but none are as memorable.
I need to avert my eyes the next time I spy one of those seductive covers on a cold gray day.
It pains me to give two stars to anything by Georgette Heyer but after an initial stab at it I did only find myself picking it up when I woke up too early and couldn't get back to sleep.
It got better towards the end, but it wasn't very gripping.
Heyer does really like to dwell on her characters foibles, often through long bits of dialogue, and it wasn't really doing it for me this time.
Inspector Hannasyde felt like just one of a large cast, not anyone particularly compelling in his own right.
They Found Him Dead is another Heyer mystery.
Like the others I've read so far, it was an English country house murder mystery, in which there's a relatively small number of suspects, and the characters are likeable.
I got suspicious of the culprit long before any of the characters, and spent the last third of the book yelling "WHY AM I THE ONLY ONE WHO SUSPECTS THIS GUY?!?" I was a little disappointed that I was so far ahead of the characters - usually, I'm slightly ahead, right there with them, or behind (I'm not particularly good at figuring out whodunits).Overall, another decent whodunit.
An enjoyable, if at first slow-moving, mystery in the tradition of Agatha Christie's non-detective mysteries. The plot is complex, the murders connected, and the characters alternately annoying and charming at this English country house in a much slower, more genteel time. There are a number of characters to keep track of at the opening dinner party, but they quickly sort themselves out as one ends up dead, and then another. Close calls abound, self-absorption runs rampant among some of the characters the reader really wishes WOULD die, and young love blooms despite everything. A jolly good read.
Hadn't read this before but still knew "who dun it" halfway through the book. I'm not that good at solving mysteries, I don't think -- it's just the author's prejudices seem to determine who gets to be the bad guy. *sigh*But I don't read mysteries for the mystery anyhow, and I enjoyed the characters, so it's all good. I particularly liked that the first victim wasn't someone the reader is clearly expected to despise; on the contrary, he's a nice enough guy most people didn't realize his death was murder!
When Silas Kane is found dead at the bottom of a cliff after going for a stroll on a foggy night, the police deem it death by misadventure.
Timothy Harte believes he was murdered.
When Silas's heir is shot within days, the police realize they are looking at someone who has killed twice.
Trouble is the main suspects all seem to have alibis for one or the other murder.
Heyer has a subplot of a Victorian romance entwined with the mystery.
The characters are somewhat shallow and the dialogue lacks the humor that characterize her straight romances but the book is enjoyable.
Another fun 1930s mystery and a very entertaining read. I loved Terrible Timothy and laughed a lot at the perfectly dreadful Rosemary and the character (whose name I no longer remember) with appallingly behaved children. I also liked the fact that Superintendent Hannasyde had a bit more to do than he did in his last outing. It wasn't hard to guess whodunnit, although a bit harder to work out how it was done. This didn't make the book less enjoyable, though. I'm looking forward to the next Heyer mystery on my list.
It took me along time to finish this book. Usually I really, really like Georgette Heyer's mysteries but this one was not one of my favorites. Silas Kane's sixtieth birthday ends in tragedy when he apparently walks off a cliff during a foggy evening. However, his nephew's half-brother suspects murder. As a teenage boy though, the young Mr. Harte is disregarded until Silas' heir also dies. When the third in line for the family fortune starts getting close death calls, everyone starts to take the youngster's theories more seriously.Update: This book improves upon re-reading
