https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94715.Lest_Darkness_Fall
De Camp was 3 years old when Twain died in 1910, so no kooky ideas of reincarnated writing styles can be brought forth, but on the other hand if a reader is willing to jump in on the whole traveling back in time, then why not?The title is taken to correspond just as Rome is coming apart and the Dark Ages falling.
I had no idea that in this time of the bifurcated Empire there existed in Rome a great cultural diversity of peoples: Goths, Ostrogoths, Vandals, Alans, Huns, etc.
Martin Padway is struck by lightning while visiting Rome and finds himself permanently displaced to the 6th century AD.
A student of history, he decides to use his knowledge of technology and history to prevent Rome's fall and thus prevent the Dark Ages, and single-handedly jumpstarts the Industrial Revolution, introducing distilleries (to give him some money to live on and finance his operations), double-entry bookkeeping, the telegraph, the printing press, modern methods of warfare, etc.
It's kind of like A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court with less humor and more technology.
DeCamp knows his material.PACING: The story is only 260 pages long which is small for today's fantasy novels which go from 600 to 1000 pages.
It may have been a good idea to have shown that he knew of such things before since the typical professor wouldn't be able to make them nor perform political intrigues.STORY/PLOTTING: B plus to A minus; CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B to B plus; HISTORICAL ALTERNATIVES & INTEREST FOCUS: B minus to B; WHEN READ: January 2004; OVERALL GRADE: B to B plus.
** Original review** Nov.12, 2009**de Camp made up a lot of my reading back in the 70s.
Pretty good read.Wow, someone just liked this 2 line review.
I imagine it's because my wife had passed away not long before and I was looking at moving to a smaller place.
In that period of time the population of Europe dropped from approximately 7 million to around 2 million.
From this point there was a long period of descent in Italy.So, when archeologist Martin Padway is thrown back to 535 he knows what's coming.
3.5 stars. Classic time travel tale. Good writing, nice pacing and a tour of ancient Rome. What is not to like.
The stakes are a lot higher for Padway/Paduei than for Snodgrass since Paduei is there in the past for good.The parts of the story that don't quite work for me are the parts about Paduei's effects on the people around him.
There's really nothing to explain how he gets so many people to line up with his interests, though the Bishop of Bologna scene is a classic.
If you haven't read it, please do, and remember how old the idea of the Great Man of history, the vector of change, really is.
Lest Darkness Fall is an alternate history science fiction novel written in 1939 by author L.
When a thunderstorm arrives lightning cracks and he finds himself transported to 6th century Rome.Padway arrives in an Italy ruled by the Ostrogoths, a tribe who recently overthrew the Western Roman Empire, but ruled with benevolence, allowing freedom of religion, and maintaining the urban Roman society they had conquered.The Gothic War of the mid-sixth century saw the Eastern Roman Empire overthrow the Ostrogoths and the Vandals in north Africa, but they never consolidated their rule over Italy, and it collapsed into smaller states with further invasions by the Lombards.
Some historians consider this as the true beginning of the Dark Ages.Padway initially wonders if he is dreaming or delusional.
de Camp's matter-of-fact, no-nonsense style works great when he's talking about actual objects and works less well when he's trying to juggle a big cast and talk about huge political ideas like who should rule an empire.Then there's also the uncomfortable fact that the novel occasionally dips into off-the-cuff racism and sexism.
There's a throwaway line here about a black man being "all eyeballs and teeth" that feels straight out of Gone With the Wind, for one thing, and the novel ends with Padway trying to prevent the spread of Islam and Arabic power because it would be personally inconvenient.
This is my favorite among the original de Camp stories that I've read.
I'd say, 3 and a half stars.
A modern man 'slips' back in time to the late Roman era, just before the Dark Ages are set to fall.
He has to survive and uses his modern knowledge to do so, and eventually becomes a major player in the timeline as he strives to prevent the "fall of darkness," (i.e., the Dark Ages).
It's not high octane adventure but it's probably a fairly realistic depiction of the situation and the age.
I thought it was a fun and pretty quick read.
This was one of my favorite books as a child. It quite possibly was a major influence on my subsequent undergraduate and post-graduate careers since it powerfully motivated me to learn all I could about the Ostrogoths, the Byzantines & the historical figures that litter the novel.It didn't hurt that de Camp is a pretty good writer, too.
This one started out strong but quickly turned into a weak version of A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court.
A revelation. I feel sad because I did't know that this wonderful book even existed up until a few days ago. It's a great story, with full attention going to historical detail (this is what Rome in the 6th century AD seems to have been really like), but also insanely funny. The second part of the book doesn't seem to be as funny, though it is still gripping. In this instance, the comparison with Mark Twain seems to be more than valid
One of the first and best really sensible time travel novels of all time. Don't omit to admire the way the hero gets out of all the religious wars of the era he's traveled to.
I read many of de Camp's work when I was in middle school and high school, but it's been over thirty years since I picked up one of his novels.
"Lest Darkness Falls" is considered a classic and it is a very entertaining read.
That isn't the case in "Lest Darkness Falls".
The book isn't perfect though.
it starts off strong, but about half-way through gets bogged down in the politics.
However do not forget that the novel started as a short story in 1939 and then turned into a novel in 1941.
I read this in the SFBC edition of the undated (but obviously very much later) Ballantine reissue of de Camp's 1949 revision of the book -- the one whose cover I instantly recognized because it was done by my sadly deceased pal Ron Walotsky.
Either Ballantine or the SFBC or both clearly thought it would be wastefully effete to bother proofreading this reissue, tra-la: aren't publishers such wags?Being driven through bustling modern (well, 1930s) Rome by an Italian friend, Martin Padway is discussing the nature of time with that friend.
Martin can't bear to see all Rome's knowledge & progress be lost for 1,000 years, so he sets about to forestall the Dark Ages.
Martin starts by applying his knowledge of history and spoken Latin to survive and earn some money.
I can see sequels exploring this quirky alternate world!Comments:de Camp's tactic of creating a whole alternate history novel based on our own past gave him the ability to skip a lot of world building and let the reader fill in 'the rest of the story.' I liked how Martin's friend Tancredi's theory is used.
So Martin wound up changing history even when he tried not to.
What was important to me, wasn't important to him.The easiest method was simply to get up and leave before they were up and in their "right" minds.
It was particularly unattractive in the winter, when long walks weren't comfortable.The solution was to go out to the unheated front porch, clothed for a day outside, then to crouch against the interior wall, below the living room windows.
On a sunny day it could be quite comfortable to read there.This was where I read L.
Sprague deCamp's alternative history novel, Lest Darkness Fall, with great avidity, finishing it in one long crouch.
The first time was years ago and I read it just because it by L.
Over the past few years I have been seized by what could almost be called a mania about ancient rome, my bookshelf here on goodreads has most of what I've read on the subject, which has been about 80% of my reading lately.
I was between books in Coleen McCullough's wonderful "Masters Of Rome" series (finished with "Fortune's Favourite's", waiting for the library to get "Caesar's Women")when I remembered this slim little paperback written by 'ol L.
Sprague and I remembered the setting (Rome) and proceeded to read it again.
20th Century Archeologist Martin Padway suddenly finds himself transported back to Ancient Rome on the eve of the Dark Ages.
He decides to try and head off the fall of Rome.I found this book tiring.
My problem was the almost complete lack of inner dialogue.
Padway is caught in a sudden thunderstorm and POOF!
He doesn't even set about trying to get back- instead, his first thought is to find a money exchanger!
It's this lack of emotion in the characters that made reading this a real grind.

Oh, and shifting towards a constitutional monarchy quite a few hundred years early.There’s a lot of telescoped time and fast moving events to cover all of the ground Padway needs to cover in the space of the book.
But pace had to be fast in the WWII years.If Lest Darkness Fall has a single, overwhelming weakness, it’s that nearly every character in the book could be moved into the twentieth century with no real change in personality.
As a kid, I found this book very boring, but it makes you think of all the things you could do back then in the roman times.
I thought that the book was boring because it was all about politics, war, monarchy and other stuff that us kids find boring (no offense politics lovers, no offense).
The book is about a man called padway who is walking home one day to his apartment and suddenly got struck by lightning and he opened his eyes and smelt a garlic smell in the air he looked around and recognised some of the buildings but they looked newer he said “where am I or WHEN am i?” … ( - -)------
Aparte de eso, el argumento es simple, y podemos ver como un hombre solo puede cambiar el mundo (negando por tanto la tesis de los historiadores, según la cual el individuo no cuenta).Por una vez, además, es agradable ver que el autor se plantea los efectos del cambio de manera realista (el protagonista, Padway, admite que si bien no logrará cambiar el mundo por completo, puesto que eso exigiría varias generaciones, si ha puesto las semillas del futuro Renacimiento) y por lo menos el autor tiene el valor de NO DESTRUIR EL CAMBIO al final de la Historia(Me mató la parte final de "Un Yanqui en la Corte del Rey Arturo", en la que la Iglesia declara todos los inventos modernos como herejías y los destruye, quedando todo exactamente igual que al principio)Lo peor: La prácticamente absoluta ausencia de descripción y ambientación, así como la simplicidad lineal del argumento.
Sprague de Camp’s novel, a classic of science fiction and one of the seminal works of the alternate history genre.
Unlike all too many other authors working within the genre, he does not overwhelm the reader with trivial details designed to show off how much research he has done.
Once he fixes upon his goal of remaking 6th century Rome into 20th century America, Padway has no qualms with trampling upon the past, using his foreknowledge and technical skills to change dramatically the course of history.
Well, Martin pad way becomes Martinus Paduei, stumbles around for a few days, using his wits introduces a few more modern things to Roman life, a changes history.
Let';s just say that he rubs shoulders with definable and known, real historical figures ( most notable Count Belisarius) and reminds us all that Roman history may have had a hiccup after 476 AD but did not entirely end in that year.
Makes me think I'll read Robert Graves' lengthier historical novelisation, "Count Belisarius." This is a rapidly readable book (the student Isaac Asimov read it in one night) and, though dated, is a pleasant read and, again, reminds one that history is interesting.
Sprague de Camp’s best book, Lest Darkness Fall is science fantasy rather than science fiction, concerned with the past.
Archaeologist Martin Padway is abruptly transported from twentieth-century Rome to what he learns is the Roman year 1288 Anno Urbis Conditae: the first half of the sixth century AD.
Rome is a complex stew of ethnicities and competing religions (which provide a running joke on religious arguments).
Martin would like to stave off the oncoming dark ages, so he starts reinventing useful things (using Roman materials) and interferes with history (he knows what’s coming from his reading of Procopius, among others).
Highly recommended for lovers of humorous/light fantasy.
This is an engaging mixture of time-travel and alternate history--in fact, given it was written in 1939, it might possibly have invented the genre of alternate history.
I particularly found amusing the picture of all the different Christian sects.
De Camp appears to have done his research and though the book doesn't get high points for literary style or engaging my emotions deeply, it does make for a fascinating and entertaining portrait of a turning point in history and how a man with the right technological and political levers could have made a difference.
It's hard to decide whether to rate it 9/10 or 10/10. It's fast-paced, entertaining, and thought-provoking, but it *does* get rather bogged down by the end, and I found it hard to keep track of the characters.Overall, though, it's excellent for what it does, and is deservedly known as a classic.
One of my favorite books ever, and my introduction into the sub-genre that is alternate history. A wonderfully creative and intriguing book about one man's efforts to turn the tide of history and save civilization. Fun, humorous, smart and a pure pleasure.
Very, very smart science fiction.
