https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6368610-radiant-shadows
It wasn't until page 275, that I felt the storyline was finally moving along at a decent pace.This book included characters I cared nothing about when all I wanted was a glimpse of my fave of all the fae Keenan, Seth, Aislinn and Donia.
Devlin wants to protect Ani, so they take off on a 6-day road trip, where they finally come to a motel, both fall asleep and have a dream invaded by Rae telling Dev they need to head back to Huntsdale and bring Seth back to the Fairie world so Sleeping Beauty Sorcha can wake up.
I'm looking forward to seeing how the series ends and imagine it will continue with good quality writing, interesting world, and broody characters.Recommendations: Since I said what I meant in the last review, here's a repeat: this highly character-driven YA Paranormal Romance is something I wish I'd continued shortly after reading (and loving) the first two books.
If you're in the mood for a YA story as lovely as it is unique, this is the series for you.Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.NikiHawkes.com Other books you might like:
3 out of 10 ревью на русском/review in russianDevlin was out of his character. I didn't like Ani. I liked Rae, though. But all this trio thing (and we saw it before in this series) makes me sick. Also, I think Sorcha is a crazy banana. And Bananac (see the irony?) is the only person who acts due to her nature. The idea with Keenan's disappearance is ridiculous. I can imagine how angry I would be while reading the last book. Wicked Lovely (Коварная Красота):— Wicked Lovely (Коварная Красота) #1/
ревью на русском/review in russianDevlin was out of his character.
I didn't like Ani. I liked Rae, though.
But all this trio thing (and we saw it before in this series) makes me sick.
And Bananac (see the irony?) is the only person who acts due to her nature.
I can imagine how angry I would be while reading the last book.
Wicked Lovely (Коварная Красота):— Wicked Lovely (Коварная Красота) #1/5— Ink Exchange (Роковая татуировка) #2/5— Stopping Time (Останавливая время) #2.5/5— Old Habits (Старые привычки) #2.6/5— Fragile Eternity (Темное предсказание) #3/5— Radiant Shadows (Смертные тени) #4/5— Darkest Mercy (Жестокое милосердие) #5/5— Faery Tales & Nightmares (Сказки и кошмары) — Desert Tales (Рассказы о пустыне)

I couldn't think of a better novel to start the year off with.I'll take this time to admit it, I'm a sucker for the antihero, and who could be a better candidate for such a character than a man who is the pure embodiment of logic and war.
Following him was an intense ride to say the least.There is a point I'd like to make out before I go on a rant about how everyone should read Radiant Shadows.
While it can be read as a stand-alone, I would strongly recommend reading the first three books (Wicked Lovely, Ink Exchange, and Fragile Eternity) before picking it up.
This was the best one since Wicked Lovely.
Also the first one since Wicked Lovely to have a decent ending.
This is the second book in the series not to focus on Ash, Seth, and Keenan, although Seth was in it quite a bit.
And I am reading this series pretty much just for Seth and Ash, so I wasnt sure if I wanted to bother with this one.
But this is so much better than book 2!
Sooo much better than Keenan or Irial.
Great ending and setup for the last book.
Seriously, it’s ridiculous how much I’m enjoying the reread of this series. This book in particular I really loved. Ani and Devlin are amazing characters and I loved seeing more of the world and drama unfold without a focus on Ash and Keenan who were, honestly, starting to annoy me. I am obsessed with The Hounds and their Steeds and with Iri Niall and the dark court. Give me more! I don’t want to read the next book and have the series be over.
She uses her writing talents to manipulate readers into falling for, even rooting for, the characters in the story, even when its the villain.
Radiant Shadows shifts focus from Aislinn and Seth to Ani, daughter of Gabriel and Devlin, the high Queen's Bloody Hands.
We also meet several new characters who help build the story and keep it interesting.
Readers get to ride along on a hunt, listen in on conversations with the old King and the new one, and live through Ani and Tish.
I would recommend readers to go back and reread the last few chapters of Fragile Eternity before jumping in to Radiant Shadows.
The book was made all that more special by featuring my favorite faeries of books past - Niall, Seth and Irial - their inclusion and that of the Dark Court made the story much more interesting for me.
Devlin quickly proved himself a character befitting his status as one of my favorites in the series with his strength and loyalty and his ability to question his beliefs when faced with his destiny.
Ani developed into a wonderful character full of spunk and strength and a unending desire to test her boundaries and restrictions - I think she was a brilliant match for Devlin.
Given the way I loved Ink Exchange, I, for one, was definitely looking forward to a couple of fresh, new characters, a possible mention of how Leslie was doing, and being back in the Dark Court with less tiresome Keenan and Ash and more magnetic Irial and Niall.Ani is a halfling.
Which, as it is also the final book in the series, is going to have to be enough to last for me a very long time indeed.Reading Order: Wicked Lovely, Ink Exchange, Fragile Eternity, and RADIANT SHADOWS
I felt like Ani was a very inconsistent character - she didn't seem to have a lot personality traits that stuck with her throughout the book, aside from her love of fighting and running which were innate traits due to her being a Hound.
I'm not sure why the real Ani never popped into my head when I was reading about the Fragile Ani. I suppose I just didn't pay a lot of attention to the name and make the connection because I assumed it was just another trendy, fantastical sounding name like Irial, Niall, Aislinn, Sorcha, etc.
Ani is now beginning to change, but she needs both the emotions of the Dark Court and skin touch like the Hounds for nourishment, so she is a danger to mortals and faerie.
Bananach wants Ani to kill Seth and Niall, present King of the Dark Court.
The characters are complex and personable with human needs, wants, and problems.I believe Radiant Shadows is the best of the four Wicked Lovely books.
I could write more about the book, but that would spoil the reading and you must get lost in this faerie world on your own.
The lack of scene-setting gives us the impression of disembodied voices, jabbering on about fairy politics which is impossible to follow, and even more difficult to enjoy hearing about.
The number of characters has met critical mass, and I found myself struggling to recall who everyone is and what their backstory/point of being there was.There are some major plot developments, however Marr shows a reluctance to get her hands dirty and rev the tension up.
So I don't understand mrs' Marr choise to make the 4th book of this series ordinary by taking the cliche trope of the starcrossed lovers that are destined to be together not just because their love is so great but because it will help the well-being of the world (eye-rolling!!!!).
I'm still though anxiously waiting for the fifth and final instalment of this series and I hope that mrs Marr will be back in shape because Seth and Niall deserve only the best!!
This might be my favorite book of the series so far! I just love Devlin and Ani!
This one in particular wasn't as dark as some of the other books have been which was a bit of a let down though it was incredibly suspenseful and there's a new aspect to the writing that was interesting.Characters - 4 out of 5 starsAll these books highlight different main characters that pop up throughout the series and this book centers around some more new points of views.
There's also some emphasis on characters from previous books which I loved!Emotionally(view spoiler)[I have to say that I was kind of disappointed with the way this book in particular played out.
The way things play out feels a lot more subtle and kind of like behind the scenes warfare than actual fighting.
Can we NOW move on?While I still don't enjoy the way Marr throws the reader into the story and gives all kinds of exposition without actually telling anything, I did like this book a bit more because we had a break from Aislinn and her Seth/Keenan seesawing which I'm quite tired of reading.Having read the whole book, I still don't understand why Ani is so important to everyone nor do I get why she has all these special faerie powers that her brother and sister didn't get.
Oookaaaaay.I hope by the time I read the end of this series that I'll actually understand the world Marr has tried to create because, after four books, I'm still confused, but I doubt that's going to happen.

Couldn't put it down, I must say my fav in the series so far.Many things happen in this book, a lot of changes and surprises.
And Ani's evolution through the book was great, loved to see her become stronger and stronger with every page.
The chemistry between Ani and Dev was great.
I loved Dev because he was so dark and mysterious, all those secrets and his seductive personality totally did it for me.And the best thing was how Marr got to make everything make sense at the end.
I love this series.
I have wanted to read the next book in this series, since I finished Wicked Lovely.
The characters were all new to me and the story line did not connect to the prior book.
All of my favorite characters from Wicked Lovely did not make appearances in this book, which left me disappointed.
There was no connection between me and the characters.
I just went through the motion of reading this book but did not retain much of anything.
I am hoping that the next book is just like Wicked Lovely or I may have to be done with this series.
This one was pretty interesting although I wouldv'e liked to know what's going on with Ash, Keenan, and Donia. I guess Keenan is missing?I'm glad that Ani and Devlin was able to find a way to be together and at first I was worried about how Seth would get back but it seems I didn't need to.I'm curious how all this will affect the courts in mortal world though.
I'm soo excited, been loving wicked lovely since the beginning
I am beyond sick of this Aislinn/Seth/Keenan love triangle, not to mention I'm pretty disgusted with Aislinn right now after all that crap that went down in Fragile Eternity.
You could look at this as Devlin & Ani's love story but of course it's so much more with all this court intrigue.
While I did like Rae & Devlin, Ani annoyed me pretty much throughout the novel.
*sighs* I may have missed a few absent characters but I'm more than happy that Irial played a more present, if not significant role in this novel.To wrap everything up spoiler-free, you end up learning alot of secrets about Devlin/Ani/Sorcha/Bananach.
2,5 SterneEs war einfach so unspektakulär... Ich habe mich die meiste Zeit beim Lesen gelangweilt. Die Liebesgeschichte war super merkwürdig. Wie lange haben die beiden sich jetzt gekannt? Ein oder zwei Wochen? Und dann schon dieses aufopfernde Gesülze? Das kann ich den dann einfach nicht abkaufen. Bin froh, das Buch jetzt durch zu haben.
With its angsty Twilight-esk main characters it certainly caught the imagination of readers, but I've never been one for the emo girl.
However, as we read we are guided into the realization that Devlin, despite all of his age and power, in not so different from this girl.
There are other quazi-main characters but I didn't find them as interesting, even Seth who was my favorite from the first book, so I'll be leaving them out of this review.
Despite the fact that there isn't a whole lot of action, and some of the action that is present reads like contrived afterthought, the book still manages to be a fast read.
The fae in these stories are dangerous, destructive and lethal.
I was impressed by the entire novel...
writing, plot, characters.
Everything was right on.I loved both of the main characters in the novel, Ani and Devlin.
In the previous novels I always wanted to see more of Seth and Ash, their minor roles were just never enough.
Seth & Ash who?I also give kudos to Marr for writing what she does.
Marr doesn't write for a reader, she writes the story as it's meant to be told.I'm very much looking forward to where we are taken next.
Every scene with her made me tense with the fear of what she might do.
The Dark Court is so fascinating to me.
I was totally confused reading about the Hunt.
The Hunt seems to be both a group as well as an activity.
I didn't understand the Steed concept, until Barry (which is several chapters in).
I still don't understand the whole concept of Ani's wolves.
I found myself rushing through the scenes with Rae. They just did not interest me.
I cannot wait to see what happens with all the courts, with Keenan (where did he disappear to), Ash, Seth, and of course Niall!
I give it 4 because the more I think about it the more I love how Marr is setting this up for a finale.
I knew that Radiant Shadows would not focus on Seth and Ash so I went thinking that this one would be a side story like Ink Exchange, but I now know that if I had skipped this one I would have missed so much.
The only point that truly bothered me was the relationship Devlin held with Rae and Ani at the end.
I found it a little creepy and I hope that Marr separates Rae and Ani in the final book.
I loved having an aggressive fighter heroine and a sexually repressed hero--the gender role reversal was great.However, John Green once mentioned that at its core, Twilight is a book about a pedophile, because no matter how young Edward Cullen looks, he's still over a century old, and old men who lust after teenage girls are generally considered icky.
And that thought has bled over into my reading of Melissa Marr, bringing a level of squick to many of the romances.I also find Marr's books darkly creepy in a way that urges me to continue reading but leaves me feeling vaguely unclean after I've finished.(Also, I still don't forgive her for ruining Seth in Fragile Eternity.)
First off, I will say this is probably my favorite fairy series to date. I love the whole Wicked Lovely series, including this book. I just wish she would have ventured out a little more to the other characters I like to much! But overall, it was a great book that hooked me from the start and kept my immersed throughout.
