https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36505403-boy-s-life
One of my favorite quotes of all time comes from this book:  We are born able to sing to birds and read the clouds and see our destiny in grains of sand.
We get put on the straight and narrow and told to be responsible.
Told to act our age.
Told to grow up, for God's sake.
And you know why we were told that?
Because the people doing the telling were afraid of our wildness and youth, and because the magic we knew made them ashamed and sad of what they'd allowed to wither in themselves.
Read this book.
Get a little of that magic back.
Update: Kindle US for $1.99 today 11-27-17I am almost at a loss of words about this book.
It is one of my favorites now.
I thought it was going to be just about a mystery of who murdered someone and and father and son trying to find out the mystery!
Even though it was a little before my time all of the things that happened in Corys childhood is so familiar growing up hearing all of the stories from family.
Granted a lot of the same things were in my childhood but I digress.
This book has a little of so many things.
Forget the minimal supernatural elements, it plays a much smaller part than you might think.It's a coming-of-age story about a twelve year old boy, Cory Mackenson, growing up in a town called Zephyr in the early sixties.
Absolutely EVERYTHING!Allow me to explain.I was 17 years old when I read IT by Stephen King - a daunting task with a book of more than a thousand pages.
For the last two weeks, I felt that magic again - I'm certain it's to a much lesser extent than in my youth, but this is the closest I have come to it in my adult life.This story covers all the important stuff:Ignorance vs.
I'm going with five stars because it's a book I will remember.
I think some of the story felt familiar to me because other author's have been influenced by this writing.
The driver is past his help though, he had been brutally murdered and the killer was dumping him so that no one would ever find him or know what happened.That seems like such a simple basis for a story.
Then Robert McCammon takes that story and builds on it.
He takes this boy's life and makes it come alive.
How do you summarize a couple years in the life of a young boy?I tried hard not to like this book.
Boy's Life feels overwritten for what it is and Robert McCammon was trying so hard to write like Stephen King that you could taste it.
It reminded me of Stephen King's The Body (aka Stand by Me) at first, but it's a lot more than that.Cory is eleven when the story begins, growing up in a small Alabama town called Zephyr.
Also, it seemed excessively wordy for what it was at times, like I mentioned at the beginning.All things considered, Boy's Life was a great read.
I mean ....I REALLY can't stand it!!!!!After about 4 hours of my time listening to the Audiobook...I'm DONE!!!I don't care what the hell happens -- I can't remember when I've completely disliked a book moreThe guys voice on the Audiobook sounds condescending to me most of the time.Other times the writing itself is too syrupy sweet.
I was bored to death -- I felt everything was OVER-DESCRIBED.
My God....I didn't care if the door was shiny.
and there were TOO MANY metaphors in this book.
Boring - long- tedious - pretentious descriptions- NOT FOR ME!!!!
Maybe I should’ve read this book when I was young to understand the importance of childhood and growing up; to appreciate the fleeting and short moment of that time.
It’s only through the telescope of adulthood, age, and restriction from the invisible chains of responsibilities that the gravitas and happiness of childhood became meaningful; the constant accumulation of experience and hardship growing up made reading this book an irreplaceable experience.
It’s a long one but if you find this passage heartwarming or lovely to read, trust me that it’s very probable that you will have a wonderful and magical time with this book.
This was a very good book with two main plot lines and a separate smaller plot in almost every chapter.
It reminded me of, and I have read this comparison elsewhere as well, Different Seasons era Stephen King.One of the great things about this book is that it perfectly embodies pre-pubecent innocence and coming of age.
It leads to some very interesting questions and blows the mind.While this is a long book, it may read quickly for some.
If you are a fan of early King and/or character study books, this should be right up your alley.
You know, it's a weighty thing when you've read as many books as I have over my 41 years of life and you finish a book that becomes your new favorite of all time.I never thought I'd read anything that impressed me as much as a Stephen King book.
My husband came in and was like, "Oh no, what's wrong, what happened"...I told him and he let me cry on his shoulder while he laughed at me for crying over fictional characters.I kept stopping after like 50 pages because I knew the more that I read, the closer I would be to finishing and I never wanted it to end.
A beloved favorite story of all time.
It blew me away the first time I read it, and it continues to blow me away each and every time I pick it up.
I'm getting all shivery right now, just thinking of reading it.My favorite quote -- "We all start out knowing magic.
We are born able to sing to birds and read the clouds and see our destiny in grains of sand.
But then we get it the magic educated right out of our souls.
We get put on the straight and narrow and told to be responsible.
Told to act our age.
And you know why we were told that?
5 stars for the writing, the characters, the plot, the magic.
He assigned this one as his October moderator's choice, and I sighed and thought to myself: "Well, I'll give it a try, but it is classified as science fiction, so probably not for me." That's the same thing I thought when other people recommended it over the years, when I saw it on lists of books one must read.
Unless the magic in the world around us can be counted as such.Oh, and 5 stars for what has to be the best acknowledgments page I have ever read.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “Don’t be in a hurry to grow up. Hold on to being a boy as long as you can, because once you lose that magic, you’re always begging to find it again.” Boy’s Life is a selection I’ve actively avoided ever since it first popped up on my radar due to its unprecedented 4.55 rating amongst my Goodreads’ friends. (If you aren’t familiar with them, let’s just say they aren’t a real forgiving group of readers and leave it with that so they do
(If you aren’t familiar with them, let’s just say they aren’t a real forgiving group of readers and leave it with that so they don’t slit my throat.) If you’re of the ilk to take a gander at shelf names, you’ll see this one now sits prominently on the “Like This Or We Can’t Be Friends” option.
Boy’s Life is a story about just that .
. a boy’s life, told as a reflection by said boy who has since grown up.
Like when a young boy experiences his first crush .
I recommend you experience Boy's Life during summertime if at all possible.
To say that I loved this book is an understatement.
He tells us that he believes in magic, and then he proceeds to tell us about the year when he was twelve years old in a little town called Zephyr.It's the story of Zephyr and it's assortment of colorful characters.
It's a murder mystery, a story about monsters (both human and otherwise), love and prejudice, ignorance and the grace of making good decisions.
Most of all, it's about growing up and never losing the magic.Many thanks to the person who bought me this book.
Edit: September 19th, Kindle version is available for $1.99It’s 1964 and Cory Mackenson is a 12-year old boy living in a town and time where boys that age are fairly free of supervision to wander about town together, playing freely through their summers and Saturdays – Sundays are for church.
This captivating coming-of-age tale is magical work of art, a masterfully narrated glimpse into a different era through the eyes of Cory Mackenson.
Robert McCammon doesn’t overlook the negatives of that time in a place like Zephyr, Alabama.
Read this book, it is a treasure that will magically transport you to those years of wonder.
Book.!!!Boy's Life goes directly into my favorites shelf.
This novel which is about a boy's life, is special, magical, exceptional and feels so real.The narrator of this autobiographical fiction, Cory Mackenson, tells us: "We all start out knowing magic.
We are born with whirlwinds, forest fires, and comets inside us.
We are born able to sing to birds and read the clouds and see our destiny in grains of sand.
The truth of life is that every year we get farther away from the essence that is born within us."Don't read any further reviews, just pick up the book and read, it will be an enjoyable journey...
And the need to hear stories, to live lives other than our own for even the briefest moment, is the key to the magic that was born in our bones.This is McCammon’s song.Meet near twelve year old Cory Mackenson, awake before the crack of dawn, helping his Dad, deliver milk ( in glass bottles) before school, when suddenly a brown car jumped out of the forest right in front of them, swerved and plunged off the embankment and down into the very deep and dark depths of Saxon’s Lake.
There's (hopefully) lots of joy and happiness and magic dispersed throughout your younger years, but unfortunately there can also be some heartbreak and loss, and McCammon beautifully presents all these different emotions seamlessly.Cory's coming-of-age tale is intertwined with the unravelling of the mystery of a dead body in his small town.
Boy's Life is not ABOUT the mystery, but it's about Cory as an adult looking back at the magical place where he grew up.
Made you look.I almost gave this three stars!Oh, the inhumanity!!I wasn’t quite as smitten by this book as some of my more learned friends – you know who you are.McCammon is a fine writer; he creates some evocative characters; he lays out some of the most remarkable scenes that I have ever read; some of his passages threw me back to my own youth; he can turn a phrase……But…For the first one hundred and fifty pages or so I was lulled into thinking this was going to be a straight up narrative about growing up in the Deep South with a dead body thrown in for kicks.
Boy's Life is one of those books you do not want to end.A beautiful coming of age story that takes place in Zephyr, Alabama.
There is great beauty not only in wisdom, but in this blissful, dazed ignorance, where summers are endless, bikes can take you anywhere, and there are always parents and home to return to.Boy's Life might have its problems, but it doesn't diminish the warm and fuzzy feeling that accompanies the reading.
It's sad when we do see them, actually: McCammon's novel reminded me that we all lose a part of this dramatic ignoracne, the thing which made us children.
"No!!! Why did it end…I don’t want to close the book, I don’t want to leave Zephyr, Alabama." (Throws tantrum) This was truly magical absolutely breathtaking & one of the best books I have ever read… So much life came out of this book, the author ( bless him ) managed to  capture the true essence of childhood, the beauty of imagination and the importance of naivety . The way most people describe the love for this book and the countless recommendation for this one, I can finally say I unders
The way the character approached topics of death, love, religion, racism and other topics from his perspective was refreshing because he still kept asking certain questions a normal child would ask like “Why are black people and white people so distant if they all die and go to the same heaven?” or “Is faith real?” I found myself kind of relating to him on a whole other level.
It’s a brutal lesson of life, clash with the world of stronger and bullies, unjust law and racial prejudices and knowledge that our neighbours now and then like to dress up with ridiculous white robes ( the whole thing spans a year on the cusp of 1963/1964 in some jerkwater town called Zephyr, Alabama ).Cory, sensitive and imaginative teenager is a wonderful narrator of the story and perfect guide to that world.
But we may guard them and guide, lead them through life and one day just let them go to fly into the big wide world.
Boy's Life is about Cory Mackenson, the southern town of Zephyr and the magic of every day life.We had a monster in the river, and a secret in the lake.
The truth is more fearsome: we are as frail as young trees in tornadoes, and our beloved homes are one flood away from driftwood." pg 97, ebook.Boy's Life also examines coming-of-age issues like bullies, over-bearing parents, and accepting the realities of old age and death.
But really, Boy's Life stands on its own.Recommended for readers who enjoy historical fiction with a touch of magic and mystery.
This is a Magical story of a boy Cory, he narrates to us about his life in the year 1964 in a small town of Zephyr Alabama where anything and everything happens. His experiences and friendships want to make you tearful and joyful he is on a journey of self discovery and of mysteries that haunt his father and the lake. A highly recommended read one to make my list of must reads, Robert McCammon is a underrated writer a master craftsman storyteller.  'Because Death cannot be known. It cannot be be
There are other things I have picked up on and they add to just how much a respected and talented writer he is.This story hold a high place in my shelf in line withTo kill a mockingbird, The Bottoms by Joe Lansdale, Something wicked this way comes by Ray Bradbury and Stand by Me by Stephen King.As Robert McCammon says in the final pages of this novel, in the acknowledgments, I too bid you farewell in his words...Your lake will always be deeper and sweeter than mine, your jar hold greater mysteries, your rockets travel truer to the heart.These excerpts below are ones that I felt echoed a thousand heart felt feelings.
If I played my cards right, I could talk my folks into letting me stay up late, like until eleven or so, and I would sit in front yard watching the lights of Zephyr go out.
It was impossible not to wax nostalgic while reading this coming of age story, as I, too, was twelve years old in the summer of 1964.
Love the parallel between youthful school yard bullies, Gordo and Gotha Branlin, who are simply mean-stupid, and the Blaylock clan, thugs who are said to be 'meaner 'n horny rattlers'.
I was struck by something that Cory's dad noted to his son, that being when it rains while the sun is shining, it means the devil is beating his wife.
This is the first time I have read Robert McCammon.
This was the monthly read of a group that I am a member of.
It just left me spellbound.Story captures a whole year of a boy's life named Cory Mackerson.
If you'll read this I am sure you will relate yourself to Cory in one way or other.
Even after all these beautiful things this book remains a murder mystery to be solved.
Solving the mystery from a 12 year's POV was amazing.
This sure is going to my favorite and re-read shelf.So just go ahead and read this beautiful story.
Which took me back  to that wonderful word: story.
It seemed to me at an early age that all human communication--whether it's TV, movies, or books--begins with somebody wanting to tell a story.
And the need to hear stories, to live lives other than our own for even the briefest moment, is the key to the magic that was born in our bones.
(p 27)For, above all Boy's Life is a book of stories by a fictional boy who wants to be a storyteller.
"You Don't Have To Leave What Is, To Visit What Was"Revisit the past by taking this sentimental journey into the 1960's in Zephyr, Alabama.
Eleven year old Corey Mackenson and a memorable cast of well-defined characters (OMG Vernon) will make you both laugh and cry many times throughout the book.
There are creatures and ghosts, floods and bullies, and you'll not forget the wasp's from hell or the magical "Lady" who can see that brings healing and wonder.This award winning novel of growing up in a small southern town is just plain entertainment at its best.
Loved it!
Sometimes, this is exactly the kind of affable fable that I want and need to read.The story's protagonist and narrator, Cory Mackenson narrates the story as a grownup looking back to the summer of 1964 when he was 12 years old in the little town of Zephyr, Alabama.
Both the town and the story have that folksy, haimish feel.The story's action begins when Cory and his father Tom (a milk deliveryman) nearly run into a car rolling into Saxon's Lake.
The local law enforcement cannot find the car or the corpse so its identity remains a mystery, but obviously a murder.Torn up about the dead body, Tom has a recurring lacustrine nightmare.
A boy and his bicycle...a bike meant freedom then.
I was all over two counties on that bike.
There I covered the entire area on my Bike, Back then you could (and I did) park your bike at a bus stop (no lock) ride down town (to hit the available book outlets) ride the bus back.
Your bike would still be there and you'd ride it home.The "paranormality" underlying this little town, the poison of racism, the relationship of Cory with his dad...as well as with his dog and his bike are all part of this book's magic.
I enjoyed this story about Cory Mackenson very much.
This is a tale of good vs evil, friendship, family, racism and small town life.
There is a little smattering of fantasy as well.
There are many wonderful characters living in Zephyr, Alabama as well as several unsavory ones.
The main crux of the story revolves around Cory and his dad witnessing a horrible scene early one morning while out delivering milk.
The experience haunts Cory's dad.
Cory is determined to help solve this mystery as his dad's well being depends on it.
Along the way we are treated to a wonderful tale.
