https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28260587-empire-of-storms
It's not that I have something against erotica, it would be ridiculous, I simply don't see why the Throne of Glass series took this turn, and I think it rather disrespectful to the readers of Maas to change the label (I don't care if it didn't change officially- this is no thing for "young adults") from ya to na in the middle of the series.
Shame on you for even trying, Aelin!Now, honestly, what person on her right mind would risk a world because of that?•Regarding Maas's handling of diversity, I'm linking here Kat's review, because not only does she say everything I too had to say about this issue, but she does it brilliantly.
ALL SPOILERS ARE HIDDEN.Update from a reread: this story was way more powerful the second time through once I knew where it was going.This series means SO much to me, but that doesn’t mean I’m going to blindly love it or treat it any differently than other book I review.
you know how while everyone freaking walked across Middle Earth the story kind of meandered but wasn't necessarily boring because the locations sounded pretty, little bits of action popped up here and there, and the characters were so wonderful that you'd be fine reading about them watching paint dry?
“Where do you think you’re going?” Darrow demanded.She looked over her shoulder. “To call in old debts and promises. To raise an army of assassins and thieves and exiles and commoners. To finish what was started long, long ago.” 3 1/2 stars. Much better than Heir of Fire and Queen of Shadows, methinks. But maybe not if you're unable to skim over the gross love scenes between Aelin and Rowan, or you just can't deal with a book where Chaol is completely absent.I have to say, though, I think Empir
But maybe not if you're unable to skim over the gross love scenes between Aelin and Rowan, or you just can't deal with a book where Chaol is completely absent.I have to say, though, I think Empire of Storms is far better plotted than the third and fourth book.
I'm starting to enjoy the overall plot, the bigger picture, and perhaps loosen my more personal ties to Chaol.I'm a little sad about it, but I also think Maas and her stories have grown in many ways.
Here are my reviews of the previous books in this series:Throne of GlassCrown of MidnightThe Assassin's BladeHeir of FireQueen of ShadowsThese two girls said it all Simona’s review , Paige’s video *sigh* I’m not sure where to start. I’ve pretty much loved all the previous books in this series but aghhh this one. Welcome to Empire of Storms, the try not to cringe challenge book edition. ➨ The first thing that you notice while reading Empire of Storms is the similarities it has with ACOMAF. I thin
I’ve pretty much loved all the previous books in this series but aghhh this one.
Welcome to Empire of Storms, the try not to cringe challenge book edition.
Every single main character is straight and white af.
SJM has like 50 pov characters between her two series, you’d think some of them would be a little different, right?
Remember that main character we were in love with for three books?
Anyway, before you bite my head off, I just want to say that I do love SJM’s writing and I think the plot of this book and the series as a whole is great.
why is possessiveness something both of these characters seem to be turned on by?⭐has anyone ever written a Throne of Glass Fifty Shades of Grey au?⭐why does he keep fucking her after she bursts into flames?⭐how many “hot” puns did Sarah J.
“My name is Aelin Ashryver Galathynius …And I will not be afraid.” Someone willing to talk? This book destroyed me and I think I need therapy to endure the wait and pain until next year.Edit: So, I'll need to wait another year to know what happens next... Not fair Sarah J. Maas, not fair. I know there's another book coming but really, I just don't care much for Chaol at the time.-Why did I read Queen Of Shadows so fast?Dammit, this happens every damn year.I read the damn book way too fast and I
This book destroyed me and I think I need therapy to endure the wait and pain until next year.Edit: So, I'll need to wait another year to know what happens next...
Not fair Sarah J.
Maas, not fair.
I know there's another book coming but really, I just don't care much for Chaol at the time.-Why did I read Queen Of Shadows so fast?Dammit, this happens every damn year.I read the damn book way too fast and I don't think about the consequences.The consequences being I HAVE TO WAIT ANOTHER EFFING YEAR AGAIN TO READ ABOUT ROWAN!
Brilliance. Sheer, pure brilliance. This is what this book is. Everything I wanted and everything I didn't know I wanted. It's a whirlwind of emotions. Quite probably, the best in the series. Full review to come.
I'll have a full video review discussing my thoughts soon.
I DEVOURED THIS AS I DEVOUR ALL OF SARAH J MAAS'S BOOK ENJOYING EVERY SECOND. I love the characters in this seris so much!!! Here's my booktalk: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W9tnt...
MORE WYVERNS AND BATHTUB SCENES, PLEASE.
“The world will be saved and remade by the dreamers.”It was unexpectedly relieving to slip back into this world. Initially, I was dreading this sequel because there was just so much that could go completely wrong, but Sarah J. Maas seriously knows her stuff. She handled the situations she put my favorite witches through with excellence. This review contains *spoilers*.Right from the start, we get to hear from Elena Galathynius, which, finally. She’s one of my favorites from this series and getti
Speaking of, Kaltain Rompier at the end of QOS was more badass than anybody I've read about before.On her way through the hills in the forest (where Manon Blackbeak and the Thirteen had left her), Elide’s completely ravenous since she doesn't know how to hunt or kill.“She wouldn’t last long without food but couldn’t risk venturing into a village with the money Manon had given her, or toward any of the hunters’ fires she’d spotted these past few weeks.No—she had seen enough of the kindness and mercy of men.
Review to come!
This book is a modern masterpiece.
We spend a lot of time watching people with more knowledge than our protagonist trying to tell her what she needs to do, and her promptly telling them SORRY Y'ALL, I HAVE MORE IMPORTANT THINGS TO DO.
The majority of this book seems to be trying to build romantic and/or sexual tension between characters...
SJM hints that maybe there are characters in her ensemble cast that aren't straight, and then reminds us that ALL FEMALES GOTTA HAVE THE D - it's a rule of life, don't you know?I will say that the LGBT+ rep in this is better than her previous books, but that doesn't mean it's good representation.
“Aelin Galathynius, Queen of Terrasen, knew the time would soon come to prove just how much she'd bleed for Erilea.” 
In the fifth instalment of Throne of Glass series, the fire-breathing bitch queen is trying to gather an army in order to defeat the demon king, Erawan, before Erilea will perish to Darkness.
It is my favorite in the series so far, the perfect way to set the chessboard before the final stand that will determine the fate of my heroes and their world.
queen is none other than Manon.freaking.Blackbeak.She was a slayer.
I flew through this and had a blast while reading, but after finishing I started to focus more on the problems I had with it. I did still enjoy it overall, but it's not my fave in the series. Tone and content-wise it just felt very different from the previous books. I'm still invested in the series though, and I can't wait to see how this all wraps up in the final installment!I talk more about this book (both spoiler-free and a spoiler section!) in this video - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gmRwb...
❝But Aelin had promised herself, months and months ago, that she would not pretend to be anything but what she was. She had crawled through darkness and blood and despair—she had survived.❞ Like others, I either hated this or loved it. I am on neither side, but I am in the middle. I'm not the biggest fan of half stars, so 3.5 doesn't exist for me, it's just 3. I didn't love it, but I didn't hate it. I loved the character development, hated some characters, love others one a lot more, was upset
He still cares for her and worries about her when she messes up or loses control, making sure she is okay and Aelin is the person in her.Normally, I'll talk about the characters and if I loved or hate them, I'll say why, but sometimes I don't feel like doing that.
Moving on to the other characters, I have nothing to say about Lorcan but that he is an asshole and even though I was able to see him and Elide together, I really wished (view spoiler)[Rowan would've sliced his throat when he apologized, saying he couldn't do anything to save Aelin when Maeve took her.
best book ever.i need to breathe.can you please message me if you have read thisi need to talk about it
2.5 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Genre: high-fantasy, NAStuff: fae, witches, dragons, a million kings and queensFail: gross sex, repetitiveness, pathosWOW: the Witches' politicsPOV: 3rd-person, multiLove-Geometry: noneQuote-Core:  "It was all borrowed time anyway." This review won't be long (too little free time), but
Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Genre: high-fantasy, NAStuff: fae, witches, dragons, a million kings and queensFail: gross sex, repetitiveness, pathosWOW: the Witches' politicsPOV: 3rd-person, multiLove-Geometry: noneQuote-Core: 
Endlessly) Plus, you can read Simona's review, her rant is quite detailed and 'lovely as lightning' xDDSPOILERS AHEADHere's the thing, I always disliked Chaol, shipped Aelin and Rowan and heartily liked 
Is this a way to estimate the strength of an enemy?And even the Bad Guy wants to know whether Aelin sleeps with her Mr. Hawk.
“Aelin Galathynius, Queen of Terrasen, knew the time would soon come to prove just how much she'd bleed for Erilea.”    Had to give myself some time after reading this epic book, to gather my thoughts, and pull myself off the floor. I think I've had some time to get it together and am finally ready to right a review for this book. We're pretty deep into the Throne of Glass Series so writing reviews for it are getting harder and harder. It's getting harder to talk about events going on and where
I think I've had some time to get it together and am finally ready to right a review for this book.
Dorian is one of the sweetest characters in this series, and Rowan is Bae is I love getting to see these two hang.-Celaena (Aelin) calling Rolfe “his Pirateness” and wanting Rowan to call her “milady”.
I love mysterious, powerful men, and with this book I feel like were actually starting to know the real him...
I loved how it brought us back to the first book, while at the same time showing us how far this series has come.
After re-reading a few parts I cannot help but rate it lower. Well, maybe it'll be one of those books that I rate lower and lower with every time I re-read some parts and revise them in my head. Oh, SJM, you could have done it so much better. Why? Pity.I will start with the flaws.Well, the "mature" content that reminded me a bit of fanfictions from AO3, not because it was horrible, but because it was given too many pages and written in an over-the-top manner. That said, I am generally not fond
Well, maybe it'll be one of those books that I rate lower and lower with every time I re-read some parts and revise them in my head.
But the combat scenes contribute to the overall progression of the plot and character development, so it's not just pointless bloodshed.
It irked me a bit that due to all the action, due to so many things happening simultaneously, there was not much space for SJM to include some in-depth insight into some characters' heads and their emotional turmoils, but I liked their development nonetheless.
THERE WILL BE "NO SPOILERS!"The revelations that came out in the book just blew me away.
But, that is Mrs. Maas for you :-) Everyone in this book had a part to play in the epic ending.
They all came together whether they wanted to or not and holy sh•t balls!
I'm afraid Sarah is going to kill everyone I love!
I can't talk much on this review or I will end up giving out spoilers AND I REALLY WANT TO GIVE OUT SPOILERS!
Aelin is a true hero and I really hope the final book doesn't kill me!
Another review gone! But my Feelings have Changed! I can't believe how different I felt about this book the second time reading it. I'm going to properly review all of these books separately once I've finished Kingdom of Ash. So RTC, but the reviews will actually happen this time because I have A LOT of feelings.
Full spoiler free review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qr-mo...I FINALLY GODS-DAMNED DID ITIt was long and it was difficult but it was worth it. I have the hardest time getting through Sarah J. Maas books because they're so long and there's so much going on, so I complain A TON as I'm reading it, but I always end up loving it in the end.

*lol* I mean I get why love played a huge role in EoS and believe me when I say that I loved all the ships that developed throughout the series, in this fifth book some of the relationships seemed to be kind of dissonant though.
I hated the way she treated Aedion and what she asked Lysandra to do and throughout the entire book I didn’t know whether I wanted to strangle or kiss her!
<333 The only thing that worries me is that according to Elena it’s either Aelin or Dorian who has the strength to kill the Valg, because if that means one of them has to die in the end I’m going to be so pissed.
My expectations were sky high for this book.
With these kinds of high hope I was just though this book would let me down somewhere.
The only let down is the book is finished and I can't wait for the next one.
Great continuity in the series, tying together many of the plots lines that were left in not the the other books but the novellas as well.
What can I say when a book that is almost 700 pages leaves me wishing for another 700 pages it must be good.
Only, the lords that still exist there have decided she is not fit for the throne - regardless of the fact that the world is going to hell and someone needs to fight.
I would just warn you to be careful before judging her too harshly because you never know what she really has up her sleeve.Rowan + Aelin relationshipI love them both individually and together - but I found myself not caring about their mushy scenes together, AT ALL.
ChaolYes, yes- due to spoilers - most people know that he's not in this book.
Okay yes- some people are saying this book has a few ACOMAF vibes to it.
THEY CAN ONLY LOVE EACH OTHER!This is some fanfic writer level "technically it could happen so I'm gonna make it happen for my ship" of canon manipulation.Look, I consider Heir of Fire to be the last book in the Throne of Glass series because that was the last book that actually felt like canon.Rowan and Aelin should've remained platonic.
British spelling.I've been saying since Heir of Fire and my belief was reinforced in Queen of Shadows (when Rowaelin happened) that endgame will be Chaol/Dorian because they are the definition of "no homo bro but I love you".
But this took everything I didn't like in the series and multiplied it by 10000 and took everything I loved and shattered it to pieces.For a while, I actually really enjoyed the direction of the plot.
However, by the end, things just started to get ridiculous, plot lines were wrapped up in the most convoluted ways possible, and of course there had to be a little "fate" added into the mix to render everything else irrelevant.
The thing is, this isn't the same series as the first two Throne of Glass books.
But when your characters are unrecognizable, when your new plot lines negate almost the entirety of some of your previous books, then there's a problem.
