https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2520.In_the_Name_of_Jesus
Glad to return to this foundational book on Christian leadership. It's so simple, but so full of truth bombs.
Do you want to be relevant?
Pray more.The Christian leader of the future is called to be completely irrelevant and to stand in this world with nothing to offer but his or her own vulnerable self.
That is the way Jesus came to reveal God's love.
Do you want to be popular?
Do you want to lead?
Maybe it is that power offers an easy substitute for the hard task of love.
(77)This will be a book I come back to year after year to remind myself as a leader that I need to be led.
Through the lens of Jesus' temptation in the wilderness, and his commissioning of Peter at the end of John's gospel, Nouwen sets a trajectory for Christian leadership. He wrote this book after leaving academia for L'Arche and one of the best parts of the book is his description of how Bill, a developmentally disabled man, shared in Nouwen's ministry in presenting this material in Washington, D.C. Nouwen questions contemporary leadership culture and the chasing of relevance, popularity and power. I wonder how Nouwen would critique social media. This short book is one of my favorites from Nouwen.
The single greatest book on leadership I have ever read!
One of the most powerful books I have read!
This book helped me connect the dots, and somewhat make sense of how to navigate transitional moments and times.
As organized ministry may die down, having a heart for knowing Jesus more will not.
Jesus is after all, continually after the renewal and growth of my heart.
In times of not knowing, I am reminded that my identity is not in my own understanding or only what I can see.
My identity is solely in the truth that I am redeemed and because of that, I am then sent as a powerful, celebrated daughter.
I had to read this for a group in my church, There are some biblical truths in this book, however nothing new or unordinary.
In this book he makes some cringy/questionable statements like "we have to be mystics" "we have to be the incarnation" and abandons some definitions of words similar to Rob Bell.
Like bad definition of what a mystic actually is or what theology is.
If you want an excellent book on Christian leadership I would not recommend this book, he seems very confused on what terms mean, different denominations, etc.
Perhaps pick up an Albert Mohler book on leadership,
Fr. Nouwen is masterful. He presents a version of Christian faith that is very different than the evangelical American brand I learned. It is rich and true to Jesus. His advice for leaders in this century is profound. The only slight thing that bothered me was the notion that Nouwen was sacrificing much by living among the profoundly disabled. The rewards of such a leading always outweighs the cost.
Unfortunately, the next chapter put a damper on that hope, and for the most part a lot of my issues with Nouwen's style did end up rearing their flowery, unclear, well-intentioned-but-ultimately-unhelpful-and-impractical heads.
Even still, there were just too many passages where Nouwen would triumphantly make a claim like he thought he had just proved or revealed something amazing that left me wanting.
Unless everything I or anyone I've ever talked to has been lied to about the way words and etymology work, that's not at all the original meaning of "God-study." You can't (or shouldn't) just be making things up to make your point, even if it does match your flowery, unclear, well-intentioned-but-ultimately-unhelpful-and-impractical aesthetic.

Loved it as a succinct and true treatise on Christian Leadership. A whole bunch of books have been written about "servant leadership," and many of them have been given to me over the years. Now I know where the other books were drawing inspiration. This one doesn't say too much or too little, and the incorporation of Nouwen's personal stories make it authentic and memorable.
I read this for a course and admittedly against my will. It starts off a little slow, but there were multiple points throughout the book where I had to stop and admire his ability to articulate things I've always thought, point out things I'd never see, and challenge me in ways I hadn't expected.
Appreciated his reflections and notes on servant leadership
. In the midst of this I kept praying, "Lord, show me where you want me to go and I will follow you, but please be clear and unambiguous about it!" (20, 22)Any book that opens with something like that is going to make me take notice, since that's basically how I feel these days myself.In the first section, "From Relevance to Prayer," Nouwen expresses his frustration that seeing the needs of the world is never enough.
Nouwen proposes instead that Jesus's first question was not "Have you solved all the world's problems today?" but "Do you love me?" Our goal, then, isn't figuring everything out and fixing it, but seeking "union with God in prayer" (the original meaning of the word "theology").
Must read again and again
This is just a brief (one hour) reflection written because Nouwen was asked to speak about Christian leadership "in the Twenty-First Century."It's a puzzling assignment given to a priest who lived in a community of people with disabilities for the last decade of his life (he got the assignment about year 3 of that decade).I related to the author because the book is about caring for people over other agendas, and it is focused on Jesus, using the two stories of the temptation of Christ and Jesus reinstating Peter by asking "Do you love me?" Rightly, Nouwen points out that Jesus passed by a lot of what we call leadership today, and love and mercy were key to all His interactions.On the one hand, I found the book a little frustrating.
However, I had little to no background on Nouwen before reading this book.
Most of his (generally very biblical) insights could be applied to any disciple of Christ.Criticism aside, this was a very useful little book for gaining some perspective in what it means to follow after Christ and to live by the authority of his name.
He rightly challenges the notion that ambition (as the world considers it) to have a place in the life of the believer or Christian leader.Very nice little read.
I intend to read more by Nouwen soon, and I rather expect my opinion of this book to be lifted.
A short but incisive read, Henri Nouwen calls to account those currently in or striving towards Christian leadership today.
Using the Gospel stories of the temptations of Jesus and Peter's call to be a shepherd as his reference points, Nouwen points out that Christian leaders are constantly tempted to be relevant, popular and powerful.
There is a lot of evidence today for how much pastors have to hide themselves-- Nouwen calls them not to do so.
But rather to truly love Jesus, and thereby have his servant-heart.I think this is an important message for Christian leaders- and all Christians.
Overall, I didn't find this book helpful at all, as far as Christian leadership.
Although his practical spiritual disciplines (prayer, confession, theological reflection) are helpful for the Christian leader (just as they are helpful for every Christ followers), there were several cringe worthy statements he made.
“Jesus’ first temptation was to be relevant”; “The leaders of the future will be those who dare to claim their irrelevance”; “we have to be mystics” Furthermore, Nouwen seemed to abandon common definitions of words.
I was able to draw a few things from Nouwen’s writings, but I’ve found other books much more helpful in Christian leadership than this one.
As usual, Nouwen is concise and brief yet ever-profound, filling his deceptively short chapters with insight that are worth continual thought and reflection long after the book is closed.
In this book, Nouwen's wisdom helps us to evaluate the way in which we engage our leadership responsibilities and perceive subtle temptations and obstacles that prevent us from growing.
He then offers Biblical insight into ways that we can find spiritual life in our ministry, allowing us (and those we serve) to grow.
This book is essential for anyone who is serving or leading in ministry, and it is helpful for anyone who truly wants to follow Christ and love others.
"My movement from Harvard to L'Arche made me aware in a new way how much my thinking about Christian leadership had been affected by the desire to be relevant, the desire for popularity, and the desire for power." Nouwen reflects on the three desert temptations of Jesus as he considers his own temptations. In this short book he explores what it means to be in community, confessing our sins, sharing our brokenness, invested in contemplative prayer that we might proclaim and share in the love of Jesus.
usually when authors say things like, "there's two kinds of people in this world," or "this is a battle of two opposites," they're saying everything and nothing at the same time. not so with this book: nouwen has some sincere struggles that he's identified and lights the path towards christ-likeness. a quick but profound read with lessons that will stay with you.
A wonderful short book that is so inspiring, as Nouwen always is. The essence of the book is summed up in one sentence, “I am deeply convinced that the Christian leader of the future is called to completely irrelevant and to stand in this world with nothing to offer but his or her own vulnerable self.” (p. 17)
This was actually not so bad to read-even for a non-Christian. I gave this only two stars, however, because I didn't think that any of the ideas were original. It just sounded like Nouwen took things that I've heard preached at my school and put them into prettier words.
This was a good reflection on the counter-intuitive, counter-cultural nature of Christian leadership. While our culture prizes competence, relevance, prestige and power, the Christian priorities should be love and prayer with humility.Not a terribly profound message, but very important one.
Really good!
Nouwen is an influential writer-and deeply affects many-but we don't connect.
5 stars = Yearly re-read4 stars = Re-read eventually3 stars = Very Good2 stars = OK1 stars = Pass on this one.0 stars = Couldn't finish it.
Nouwen is the man. Super helpful book for anyone in any form of Christian leadership.
Life changing, the most influential book (outside the Bible) I have ever read and may ever read.
May 2017 (Sabbatical)Second reading—excellent.
