https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25807.The_Postman_Always_Rings_Twice
”Stealing a man’s wife, that’s nothing, but stealing his car, that’s larceny.” John Garfield and Lana Turner in the 1946 movie.Frank Chambers is a drifter, a man who, when life gets too heavy, catches the next boxcar out of town or puts his thumb out on the nearest highway. Being comfortable or achieving normalcy comes with too much responsibility. He’d rather bum it than have anyone relying on him. It all begins with a sandwich in a California diner on a road in the middle of nearly nowhere. Ni
The first time The Greek leaves them alone, Frank is all over her: ”I took her in my arms and mashed my mouth up against hers….'Bite me!
Kisses that come from life, not death.”Which would all seem very sweet except for the fact that they are planning to kill The Greek.
It is hard to determine if Cora actually had any feelings for Frank or for The Greek.
Certainly, The Greek and Frank liked each other more than Cora liked either of them.
The Greek was too old for her, but Frank as it turns out was not who she needed either.
Talk about false advertising. I read this thinking it was a manual for postal employees that I could use to study for civil service exam. But it was just a story about some guy who starts sleeping with another man’s wife and then they decide to kill the husband. It was a pretty good book, but I flunked the test when there weren’t any questions about plotting a homicide. Oh, and that Kevin Costner movie didn’t help either.
James M Cain's The Postman Always Rings Twice is a fun, racy hard boiled crime noir classic.
First published in 1934 and banned in many places for its provocative scenes, the novella is a fun read full of memorable scenes.
Papadakis is a hard working Greek immigrant who is determined to achieve the American dream.
Yet, Nick's plight matters little to Frank and Cora as they work hard to get him out of the picture and cash in on his success.
Between the bedroom moments and run ins with the cops, Cain has created a memorable story that will remain as a classic in noir literature.
The Postman Always Rings Twice, James M.(Mallahan) Cain (1892 - 1977)The Postman Always Rings Twice is a 1934 crime novel by James M.
کین؛ مترجم: مرجان بخت مینو؛ مشخصات نشر: کرج، مینو، 1392، در 156 ص، شابک: 9786005848519؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی، سده 20 معنوان: پستچی همیشه دوبار زنگ میزند؛ اثر: جیمز ام.
کین؛ مترجم: بهرنگ رجبی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، چشمه، 1393، در 140 ص، شابک: 9786002290267؛عنوان: پستچی همیشه دوبار زنگ میزند؛ اثر: جیمز ام.
چمبرز علاقه‌ ای به ماندن ندارد، ولی با دیدن زن صاحب رستوران (کورا)، به او علاقه‌مند می‌شود، و تصمیم می‌گیرد، تا پیشنهاد کار را بپذیرد.
(In a sidebar: Isn't it great how the English language is still evolving to incorporate new words and phrases?!) My mother had just recently joined the ranks of those crazy bastards and as the years progressed her bouts with pms turned our house into the Rumble in the Jungle once a month, so I readily expected her to go fully postal.
It turns out the title is just allegorical!The Postman Always Rings Twice is a taut noir about a drifter who thinks he's the sharpest knife in the draw.
The drifter latches on to the wife of the goodly Greek gas station/diner owner.
4+ Stars ANOTHER good one by Cain......ANOTHER surprise ending......I vaguely remember the movie with Nicholson and Lange as being hot and steamy, but the words "we did plenty" is about as hot and steamy as it gets here in THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE.Cain sure could write hard-boiled crime though, and crime is what you get plenty of in this 1934 classic!Zoomed right through it!
I should be embarrassed by how much fun I had reading this.
There is NOTHING in this skinny novel that screams this will work for you!
There's almost ZERO character development, the dialogue is almost laughable, and the plot just keeps picking you up and ploinking you down, wherever it wants you to be, beyond reason.
Well, it certainly worked for me.This is Frank's story, his story of what happens between him and some dame.
a dame name Cora, whose “lips stuck out in a way that made [him] want to mash them in for her.”He wants to mash them in?
Don't take my fun away.
Sob. Don't take my fun away!
An astounding achievement of 20th century Feminism... Psych! It's just the opposite of that...Taut, tense, and with a lightning-speed pace, this is a seminal work by Cain. Its also a bit elementary, less wordy than the similar noir "The Butterfly" though not as epic (or precious, or memorable) as (my favorite) "Mildred Pierce."
Cain’s important 1934 crime novella is not more relevant today.
After decades of infidelity and violence, the shocking events Cain describes are just not as disturbing now as they were in the 30s.
Hell, kids are playing games where there are more sexuality and violence.But back in the day, this was edgy and original and dangerous.
Cain’s minimalistic tale of deceit and clandestine brutality influenced scores of novels and media since.
This has been adopted to film seven times.
From ‘81 til now even that description has been diluted.Still a good story and worth the small investment in time (approximately 100 pages) to read some very early and influential noir.
~The Postman Always Rings Twice If Noir can be said to have a cold, black heart it’s Postman that provided the juice to electroshock it into a beating, breathing existence.
More than anything, Cain understands how easily man is corrupted, how easily he can corrupt others, like an infection.
And I use “man” here in the generic sense encompassing both genders, because when it comes to villains and black hearts, Cain is an equal opportunist.
The women like to be smacked around a little (it helps get them in the mood), and the men are only too willing to oblige the ladies in that regard.
Even though I didn't much care for the 1946 Lana Turner-John Garfield film adaptation, I decided to read this because the new cover was visually appealing.
Score one for judging a book by its cover!
This nasty little noir features rotten people doing rotten things, like hatching murder plots, trapping pumas in the jungles of Nicaragua, and opening beer gardens.
Cora is the regulation femme fatale, a sleazy strumpet manning the griddle at a roadside diner that's just far enough from L.A. to be exactly nowhere.
How's about murder?
Until later, when Cora's swelling, 100 meter buoy-like bosoms bob on the surface of the Pacific Ocean presaging inevitable tragedy.
"Tomorrow night, if I come back, there'll be kisses. Lovely ones, Frank. Not drunken kisses. Kisses with dreams in them. Kisses that come from life, not death."   With the one-two punch publication of both this novel and the serialized version of  Double Indemnity  in the mid-1930's, James M. Cain truly popularized what we know of now as being the hard-boiled sub-genre of  roman noir  in American fiction, a long time before the term was even coined. Since it's publication, this book has spawne
"Tomorrow night, if I come back, there'll be kisses.
Since it's publication, this book has spawned so many copycats, and inspired so many writers and an entire genre of movies that it's story of a man falling for a femme fatale, their descent into crime, and their eventual doom is kind of a cliché at this point.
I initially thought that this was better than Indemnity but now on my second reading, I saw that while it's still great, and still has a stellar, superior ending, Postman pales a bit in comparison.
She looked like the great grandmother of every whore in the world.
When desire is caged it often lashes out...this story illustrates the violence that can be caged in the human heart for years - trapping any hope of happiness even when set free.
It is recognized that Cain used the Snyder case as an inspiration for his 1943 novel Double Indemnity; Marling believes it was also a model for the plot and the title of Postman.
In the real-life case, Snyder said she had prevented her husband from discovering the changes she had made to his life insurance policy by telling the postman to deliver the policy's payment notices only to her, and instructing him to ring the doorbell twice as a signal indicating he had such a delivery for her.In the preface to Double Indemnity, however, Cain gave a specific, and entirely different, explanation of the origin the title for The Postman Always Rings Twice, writing that it came from a discussion he had had with screenwriter Vincent Lawrence.
In this 1934 classic of the crime noir genre, James Cain creates the crime couple of Frank and Cora, who in a few vivid scenes are seared into literary infamy. Even by today's standards the graphic portrayals of sex and violence combined will make you squirm. You don't have to be a fan of the genre to enjoy this novel. Relatively short, the writing is exceptional, making it a pleasure to read. 4.5 stars.
A hobo walks into a diner and the diner owner, a Greek named Nick wants to hire him.
Frank quickly learns that Cora hates her husband and finds him disgusting.
The cops come at the wrong time and they revive Nick.
So they try to kill him again, this time in a car accident.
Frank punches Cora in the face so that it looks like she got hurt.
Cora finds out about Frank's affair when the cat trainer stops by his house with a kitten.
Cora tries to leave – but he stops her and she says she couldn't anyway – she loves him.
Princípio dos anos 30, Frank Chambers ,um vagabundo , sem emprego ,que fica perambulando de cidade a cidade , chega num restaurante à beira estrada de propriedade de um Grego, Nick Papadakis ,e de sua esposa Cora.
O Livro foi baseado em fatos reais dos anos 20 ,onde uma mulher convenceu seu amante a matar e forjar que fora vítima de ladrões, o rico marido para ficar com o dinheiro do seguro .Esse livro também inspirou Albert Camus, que confessou a influência do livro de Cain na motivação interna do seu romance O estrangeiro, hoje um clássico da literatura universal.
پستچی می رود، روی برمی گرداند، هر چه هست، در همان دو بار باید یادشان بگیری، به خودت بیایی و بعد منتظر انتقام سخت پستچی می مانیدیالوگی از فیلم پستچی همیشه دوبار زنگ می زندداستانی جنایی/درام که با زبان عامینه توسط قاتل به صورت اول شخص روایت می شود.داستان ریتمی تند و ضربانی دارد و بارها خواننده را غافلگیر می کند.داستان در ژانر پلیسی سیاه - نوآر(شاخه سینما)- نوشته شده و بیشتر حول جایگاه قتل،شخصیت قاتل و افکار،احساسات و آرزوهای وی و همدستش کورا(همسر مقتول) می چرخد.
"From out of nowhere, in 1934, a journalist-turned-writer produced a kind of masterpiece...placing him at once in the front rank of American storytellers but also adding an equal mastery of place...a story about justice imposed implacably by the ironies of chance." and who really can argue with that or its selection as one of the all time greats of crime writing?This noir novel that paved the way for all future noir writing is still as entertaining and still as bleak after nearly 80 years and multiple movie adaptations.A book this famous and this popular needs no review.
Following his stint as a journalist, Cain taught journalism for a few years at St. John's University, until he had a falling out with the university's administration and quit.Cain produced three novels that form the core of what is now considered American Noir, with "Mildred Pierce" and the two most notable being "Postman" and "Double Indemnity." Both may have as their inspiration the 1927 murder trial of Ruth Brown Snyder and Henry Judd Gray, a corset salesman, and Snyder's lover.
Cain changed his title to "The Postman Always Rings Twice." Don't be alarmed, should you read the novel and find no mention of a postman on any page.
This is Cain's search among the ruins of lust, betrayal, suspicion, confession, love and forgiveness that clutter two human hearts in love with each other before and after they kill another, rather generous human being.Cain's portraits of Frank the drifter and Cora, the hash house waitress, are as finely etched as any one of Rembrandt's masterpieces that stare back at us from behind those riveting eyes, waiting to have a word with us after all these centuries.Cain's story was inspired by the real-life murderers Ruth Snyder and her married lover, Judd Gray.
It is now widely regarded as one of the most important crime novels of the 20th century.Frank Chambers rolls into town with nothing more on his mind than his next meal.
The two conspire to knock off her husband and hit the road but as one knows, the best laid plans of mice and men often go awry.Frank and Cora are made for one another; the two are about as rotten as politician’s promises.
این کتاب الهامبخش بسیاری از فیلمهای ژانر نوآر آمریکا بوده؛ زنهای اغواگری که در پی قتل شوهرشان هستند. نمونهای که در طول کتاب به یادش میافتادم، غرامت مضاعف بود. آنجا هم قضیهی بیمه و قتل و خیانت به معشوقه پررنگ است. ولی این کتاب بیان فیلمنامهای ندارد و ادبیاتِ جادهایاش (که بهرنگ رجبی سعی کرده با شکستهنویسی منتقلش کند) آن را به متنی بسیار جذاب و روان تبدیل کرده است. با وجودی که داستان کلیشهای بنظر میآید، ولی بنظرم این کتاب چندین قدم از مضمونهایی که برای نوآر شمردهاند فراتر میرود و داستانی نفسگیر خلق
این کتاب الهام‌بخش بسیاری از فیلم‌های ژانر نوآر آمریکا بوده؛ زن‌های اغواگری که در پی قتل شوهرشان هستند.
آن‌جا هم قضیه‌ی بیمه و قتل و خیانت به معشوقه پررنگ است.
ولی این کتاب بیان فیلمنامه‌ای ندارد و ادبیاتِ جاده‌ای‌اش (که بهرنگ رجبی سعی کرده با شکسته‌نویسی منتقلش کند) آن را به متنی بسیار جذاب و روان تبدیل کرده است.
با وجودی که داستان کلیشه‌ای بنظر می‌آید، ولی بنظرم این کتاب چندین قدم از مضمون‌هایی که برای نوآر شمرده‌اند فراتر می‌رود و داستانی نفس‌گیر خلق می‌کند.من این کتاب را پدربزرگِ جک کرواک و ادبیات بعد از خودش نام می‌نهم.
A hard-boiled noir that inspired Camus, The Postman Always Rings Twice is never boring because the plot moves so fast that you barely have time to register what happens. This fully developed narrative is compressed into 84-pages in my edition and feels more fully rounded and memorable than many full length novels. Tragic and bloody, this story has an ending that will leave you shaken and you'll have a damned hard time trying to forget it.
I have seen a couple film versions of this 1934 noir novel and maybe never have read it.
It’s only just we readers watching a slow car crash as it happens.
But it’s a great novel, it really is!
Wasn't Macbeth a great story, featuring a deeply flawed couple?
It's hate.” “Stealing a man's wife, that's nothing, but stealing his car, that's larceny.”“Tomorrow night, if I come back, there'll be kisses.
Lovely ones, Frank.
Kisses that come from life, not death.” “We’re just two punks, Frank.
That’s what we are, Frank, a couple of Fords.”Haw!
Нито то можеш да оставиш тази история, нито тя тебе оставя.
Ако някой е боклук, той е боклук до края.2.
Ако някой боклук има гузна съвест, то тя не го спира да бъде боклук.3.
Ако някой боклук има известна доброта в сърцето си, въпреки това остава боклук.4.
Ако в някой се е вселил Дяволът, то той си работи за себе си до края.
Ние с теб сме пълни боклуци, Франк!
Господ ни даде всичко, което двама души могат да имат.
Ей това сме ние, Франк.
Pues realmente me ha gustado mucho.
"I merely try to write as the character would write, and I never forget that the average man, from the fields, the streets, the bars, the offices, and even the gutters of his country, has acquired a vividness of speech that goes beyond anything I could invent, and that if I stick to this heritage, this logos of the American countryside, I shall attain a maximum of effectiveness with very little effort."Well, by golly, he done it.
And Frank's arrival comes just at the right time.
Lust brings motivation and plan time as the lovers arrange an accident for husband Nick, not quite a romantic undertaking with murder and the insurance policy hanging in the background.
The accident goes perfectly except for one itsy bitsy problemo.Told in first person through Frank's eyes, The Postman Always Rings Twice is a tight little story at around 120 pages, a distinct slither of dread rolls through this story, along with a deep passion, spiralling desperation and a determination that's only ever going to end one way.
داستان خوب بود.
خوب پیچونده بود شخصیت هارو به هم و جالب تموم شد.
اما من زیاد خوشم نیومد.
نمیدونم داستان چی باید داشته باشه تا خوشم بیاد ولی اون چیز هرچی هست، نداشت.
اما کار قوی ای بود به نظر من.
سه ستاره فقد برا اینه که به سلیقه من خوش نیومد.
البته بعضی جاها نمیفهمیدم چه دیالوگیرو کی داره میگه و یخورده پیچ میخورد که چه اتفاقی افتاده و یهو انگار یه صحنه ای پریده میشد، ولی جز اون، بقیه چیزاش خوب بود.
مخصوصن اخر داستان که هی ورق برمیگشت.درکل، توصیه میکنم!ولی حس خیلی محشری نسبت بهش ندارم
