https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32529.The_Next_Accident
FBI Special Agent Pierce Quincy is not convinced that his daughter's death was an accident.
Quincy knew his daughter had many problems, but he also knew something didn't seem right about her death.
Distraught and determined to find the answers, Quincy seeks the help of ex PI, Rainie Connor.
Together they hope to uncover what really happened, but could Quincy and those around him be the next targets?Another fantastic read by Lisa Gardner.
A fast paced read that will keep you up at night as you won't be able to put down.
WOW that's all I can say about The Next Accident the 3rd in the Quincy/ Rainie series by Lisa Gardner, think I like this series more than her DD Warren series the interaction between Quincy & Rainie is like no other in a series they go together like Lamb & mint sauce, the pacing was excellent not over done & was just so enjoyable I had to put The Killing Hour no 4 on my wish list straight away, if you love Police procedural you will love this series as a lot of my GR friends do too.Pierce Quincy a supervisory special agent a FBI profiler back in the days when that division was called the investigative supportive unit& he was known as the best of the best.
For obvious reasons 4) In the story Rainie meets with the President of Mandy's AA chapter.
A simple internet search or watching the movie "My Name Is Bill W." with James Woods provides some insight into how AA works.Readers of previous books in the series know that FBI Agent Pierce Quincy's daughter, Mandy, died as the result of an automobile accident and that she was drunk at the time although she had been in recovery for several months.
This was the story that brought Rainie and Pierce together ...
It definitely set the tone for a methodically twisted mystery rife with paranoia and betrayal and deceit and suspicion.I never once guessed the puppet master who was pulling all the strings.
Even looking back and how it was set up I still think it was too out of left field.
I'm especially loving how each book in this series is vastly different from the last (serial killer husband, school shooting, sociopathic elimination of a man's family) and can't wait to see what's next for this pair.
The characters of Pierce Quincy (from "The Perfect Husband" and "The Third Victim") and Ranie Connor (from "The Third Victim") return to solve the death of Quincy's oldest daughter, Amanda.
A car accident left her on life support, which his ex-wife has finally agreed to turn off.
Quincy has a nagging feeling that Amanda's accident wasn't so accidental...
so he hires Ranie to help uncover the truth.
In the meantime, we meet Kimberly Quincy, a strong girl in her 20s following in her father's footsteps as she deals with the loss of her sister.
There's also Bethie, Quincy's ex-wife, and a host of secondary characters.
A pulse-pounding thriller with strong characters...
Although I enjoyed reading this, I didn't feel it was believable. A little too far fetched and even at the end, I found the conclusion hard to buy as well.
When Bethie finally gave permission for life support to be turned off on their daughter Mandy, FBI Special Agent Pierce Quincy found himself struggling with grief.
Now there was nothing – Bethie and he had been divorced for eight years and his eldest daughter Kimberly was bitter and angry; she rarely had the inclination to return her father’s calls.Quincy went to ex-colleague and friend, Rainie Connor for help.
Quincy helped Rainie through those dark days; she had no intention of turning Quincy down when he said he suspected Mandy’s accident was no such thing.
The twists were extreme and the final reveal shocked me, as I had no inkling of the killer’s identity.
I am not sure how I feel about this book.
The graphic violence in it was shocking and depressing and gave the whole story a dark feel, which it never quite overcame.
I kept reading because I really wanted to find out what was going on, to solve the mystery.
The mystery kept me reading, but it is not a book I would read again.
I don't know if I would read other books by this author or not.
She weaves a good tale, but it was too dark and too far out of reality for me.
Someone you'd least expect is targeting your family members.
He's killed three but intent on destroying you and killing more.
This is what Pierce Quincy, a top-notch FBI agent, is up against and the thriller is he's being hunted and profiled.
The killer is making it appear as if Quincy committed these crimes.
This psychopathic horror story would make anyone in these professions hesitant because of the mindset of the people you come into contact with.
The story grips you as you read, volleys with your emotions and then you're spent at the end.
I just love Lisa Gardner!!!
Great psychological thriller!
Loved this book so much. Grabbed my attention from the start and I couldn’t put this book down. Looking forward to reading the next in the series
And if he was so bent on revenge why did he sit and cool his heels for over a year and wait for Quincy's daughter to die before he moved on to the next victim?
And how did Quincy's other daughter just happen to go to the college where he had been teaching for 10 years and become his protege?
And why would one of his colleagues , who is also an FBI agent, turn into a murderers accomplice just because Quincy had solved a case that he couldn't and supposedly showed him up?
Very good suspense/thriller book. If that's your flavor you will love this one.The only reason I didn't give it 5 stars is that I did guess who dun it...and I hate that. I like to be shocked. It is a very dark tale and gruesome in detail, so not for the faint of heart. The killer seemed to go a little overboard for the offense he felt from Quincy. I guess that's what you get with a socio/psychopath. You never know what will set them off and how far they will go.Good read. Kept me in it until the end!
This is the third book in the fabulous Quincy & Rainie series. Quincy's daughter has died and he asks Rainie to investigate as he suspects foul play.I love these characters, the fast pace of Gardner's books and the edge of your seat suspense that is her trademark. There were more than a few plot twists in this one that I did not see coming. I also loved getting more insight into the characters and watching the relationship between the 2 main characters further develop. Looking forward to reading the next book in the series.
Holy moly, this one had me on the edge of my seat, looking over my shoulder, paranoid about everything. It read like a psychological thriller that had me doubting and questioning everything. Totally addicted to these characters and Lisa's writing. I have other books to read and all I want to do is keep on going...
I've tried to read this book on three separate occasions. But it couldn't hold on to my interest. The third try left me in the middle of the book with no desire to read anymore. The pace of the writing was slow. Pierce and Rainie didn't have any chemistry. After awhile I didn't care about the characters or who was the bad guy. I'm sorry but I couldn't finish the book.
This is the third Lisa Gardner book I have read as I'm doing them in order. I like Lisa's writing, it keeps you wanting to read more. Although this plot was almost always predictable it did keep me reading. I did like the ending and look forward to reading The Killing hour next.
Awesome Mystery! This one kept the pages flying, I don't think there was a dull moment and I never guessed whodunnit till the end. That is the sign of an excellent mystery in my book.
There is plenty of suspense, but I didn't find the almost omnipotent bad guy believable at all.
Last AccidentI wasn't super excited about starting this book because the basis of the plot bothered me.
You learn about Quincey and his daughter Mandy from the first books then all of a sudden a year after the accident and a month after the burial all of a sudden there are questions that it was possibly a murder.
Meh. Even though this bothered me I still expect a great book full of suspense.
While this wasn't my favorite book it was still outstanding and I can't wait to read the next one!
Not as good as her other ones I’ve read, however ended good!!!
Ook dit boek was weer heel erg goed en spannend. Voor het volgende deel moet ik overgaan naar de Engelse versie, aangezien dit deel niet is vertaald. Waarschijnlijk sla ik dit over en ga ik eerst maar in Verdwenen verder.
Awesome murder mystery! Pierce and Rainie make quite a couple in their private and work lives. Every turn in this book you'll think that's got to be the last twisted thing this sadistic killer can do then he does it again. How many places can a murderer be at one time anyway. This story takes place on the East and West Coast and within 24 hours a new crime is comitted. How much more can Pierce survive when its personal and not strangers. Gardner has become my go to for Murder/Crime/Mystery. A must read!
It's important that you read this series in order.
We learned in the last novel that Quincy's daughter, Amanda, was involved in a car accident.
He hired Rainie (now a PI) to look into his daughter's accident.
I loved having Quincy and Rainie team up again and seeing Rainie's interactions with Quincy's other daughter, Kimberly.
I loved how she didn't use the killer's thoughts in this novel and I was left doubting everyone that came into contact with Quincy, Rainie and Kimberly.
I enjoyed the conclusion and the wrap up of who the killer was and why they wanted revenge on Quincy.
Can't wait to read more of the series!
And, most of all, when he knows the same about you?These are the questions that haunt FBI Special Agent Pierce Quincy.
Quincy had helped Rainie through the harrowing case that shattered her career and left her charged with first-degree murder.
He's already killed twice; now he's taunting Quincy and Rainie by making it no secret who his next victim will be: Quincy's only surviving daughter.The killer's plan is chilling, brilliant, and unstoppable.
I enjoy the banter and sparks of Quincy and Rainie as it is realistic and make you like the characters more.
The Next Accident by Lisa Gardner Title - The Next Accident Author - Lisa Gardner Published - Oct '12Publisher - Headline Genre - #Crime #Thriller #Mystery Pages - 416Price on Amazon - Paperback - £8.99 Kindle - £4.99ISBN - 075539643XThe next accident is the third book in the Rainie and Qunicy series by Lisa Gardner.
We see her fight for her friends and we see the tough side to her when she and her friend's lives are put on the line.This book really leads you to believe that together Rainie and Qunicy can overcome anything.A really well-written book, with an interesting and gripping plot and wonderfully written characters, can't wait to read the rest of the series.
- YesWould I read other books by the same author?
Years ago I read Hide by Lisa Gardner and I recall liking it.
I love a good thrill and mystery.
The plot was a good one but the execution wasn't followed through as well as it could have been.
Some things were quite predictable and the ending was almost like a corny action flick.
I was actually quite disappointed by the ending, I was hoping for a more exciting and elaborate story behind the killer's motive and execution.
Lisa is a very good writer but I don't think I will be reading anymore of her mysteries.
Rainie, who is now a P.I, agrees to take the case and quickly learns that they are dealing with a murder, and not a drunk driving incident.
This murderer has a personal agenda, and the Quincy family is on the killer’s hit list.
Boy, this suspense/thriller was gripping.
It was like watching an episode of Criminal minds because Quincy & Rainie were dealing with a really brilliant criminal, who took his time planning his murder spree.
Who is this person targeting Pierce Quincy and his family and why?
If you enjoy suspense thriller, then get your popcorn ready because this one was good!!!
This book is from the FBI Profiler series and works well to bring the merging trio of Pierce Quincy, his daughter Kimberly, and Rainie Conner together as a force to be reckoned with.
After finally agreeing to pull the plug on his eldest daughter Mandy, who has been surviving at a local hospital on life support, FBI Profiler Pierce Quincy reaches out to Rainie Conner, hiring her as a PI to come to Virginia and look into the accident that was ultimately responsible for his daughter's death.
