https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107781.The_Gift
The parasols nearly sunk the boat...I mean shipThe Gift by Julie Garwood has always been one of my favourite historical romance novels.
I haven't re-read it in years and when friends decided a Julie Garwood buddy read was in order, The Gift was chosen.We are introduced to Nathan at the age of fourteen and Sara at the age of four.
Their journey is filled with rough seas and dastardly parasols, but Sara's positive outlook and Nathan's determination help them survive the storms.Julie Garwood is one of the most brilliant historical romance authors and her stories always leave me with a smile on my face.
4 "fun-filled" stars! I've LOVED listening to this series. The Gift is another charming and delightful book by the very talented Julie Garwood. I can't seem to get enough of this author and that says it all.
Truly terrible and from an author I've enjoyed prior to this.Sara, the female lead(can't even call this one a heroine) was married at the age of four to the then fourteen year old Nathan in order to settle a centuries old feud between their families.
When this story begins it's years later and Nathan has come to collect his bride.
Nathan has terrible scars on his back which are mentioned, but never really explained, much like everything in this book.Of course, everyone simply falls in love with Sara because, who knows?Silly, lacking of any story until about the last thirty pages.
The Gift was a great novel. It is a story of two fuding families and how won four year old girl is betrothed to won eighteen year old boy from the rival family are to put an end to this fight.The young family grow to trust and love each other. The book was very well written a definite page turner. I would recommend this to people over eighteen because of the violents and explisit descriptions of sex.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
Obviously, the groom and the bride are given some time to consummate the marriage, given the fact that he's 14 years old and, gasp, she's only 4.Now, 14 years later, it's time Nathan collected his bride - and the King's gift (coins and lands) that comes with it, as he needs the money to jump start the shipping company he's opened with his friend Colin.
As most heroes in Romancelandia, Nathan is slow at realizing he loves Sara, but she's relentless and she'll have him admit it sooner or later.
Nathan kidnaps Sara so he can get his hands on the Gift and the rest is about both of them surviving each other.He had believed he would have to protect his wife from the world.
There have been many hints about Nathan's backstory in the other books.
This let me down, I'm a miserable house elf.Sara is consumed by her love for Nathan.
While this works out extremely well for Nathan, it makes you feel like an outsider.
I liked this book, but I didn't love it.
I read this book 20 years ago and remember loving it. My perceptions have chanced a bit over the years and while I found this a bit corny and full of clichés, I still had a smile on my face the whole time I read and was a little misty eyed at the end. My findings? A Garwood will never go out of style. It's still a 5 star read :)
She deserved to be fed to the sharks so I would never have to hear another word of hers ever again.I think the only funny thing in this book was when she starts using cuss words in front of the priest to teach Nathan a lesson that cussing is bad, but it was only slightly funny, because nothing she did could ever be funny, and he overreacted and got more mad than the occasion warranted.I am thoroughly convinced that Julie Garwood is one of the worst romance authors and her characters will drive you up the dang wall.
Maybe I just read this one in a wrong time...Because seriously what a meh!!!...The girl was a uuughhh!!!..What an idiot..(Im sorry I dont really use that word in real people but ugh!!!) It wasn't her first time boarding in a ship, for God's sake.
And the guy, Goooood!!!..When I read about him at the previous book in this series, I was excited because his story seemed more interesting but what a disappointment.
He was even more likable in the previous book...And the sex scenes...especially the first ones...gawd!!!..,I hate them..I just realize that I couldn't even use their names.
I think my decision to re-read Garwood's historicals starting with the ones I've only read once was not my best idea ever.
I first read this when I was about 18 (the heroine's age) and many years later all I really remembered was not liking Sara as much as I'd liked Jade and Christina.
And Garwood's description of Sara's "repulsive" female relatives made me think of a Laurenston heroine: big, strong, and capable of laying a beat-down on anyone who crosses them.
I'd rather read about one of them than Sara, who seems like a marshmallow peep in comparison.
Kitabı sevdim, evet. Belki başka bir yazarın olsa üç buçuk falan da verebilirdim ama. Çünkü kadın karakter biraz alıktı. Saftı. Pasifti, güçsüzdü. Hiç sevmediğim şeyler ve genelde Garwood'un kadınları güçlüdür, onun için Garwood'u bu kadar severim. Ama bu kıza azıcık uyuz oldum.Önceki kitaptaki Jade'in abisi Nathan'a gelince... Bu önceki kitapta okuduğumuz adama hiç benzemiyordu. Yazar sanki başlı başına yeni bir karakter yaratmıştı.Bunların dışında historicalı güzel bir dille aktaran, efso bir yazar var. Okuyun tabiisi.
This one was pretty good!The heroine was a good departure from the previous two. I took down one star because I didn't enjoy the drama at the last 20 per cent.
If you can handle a truly dumb-as-a-box-of-rocks heroine, enjoy a slightly slapstick/absurd humor, and love your heroes gruff/alpha, you might like this book.Setting is mostly on a boat.
Annoying plot about convoluted marriage and a ridiculously "evil" family abounds.
All the needless plot at the end was terrible.Garwood's signatures are in full force here.
Plenty of weeping, mouth slanting, finger crooking, refusing to obey, scowling, growling, hauling the wife to your side, forced marriage, and winning the loyalty of men.I did like this line:S: I can't imagine why you would need my parasols.N: I'm throwing them in the ocean.
1.5 starsAudio book- narrator was goodI hated the h. I wanted to strangle her many times. She was a brat & TSTL. I liked the Hero.
Pernah denger kan quotes yang bilang kalo kelemahan perempuan itu biasa nya di pakai jadi kekuatannya. Nah kekuatan dari kelemahan itulah yang dimiliki Sara hingga Nathan a.k.a Pagan sang ( mantan )bajak laut yang paling di takuti di laut jadi klepek2 sama Sara yang paling doyan berurai air mata, suka ngatur, sok berwibawa dan polos banget.... [image error]Mereka di nikahkan saat Nathan dari keluarga St.James berusia 14 tahun dan Lady Sara dari keluiarga musuh nya saat berusia 4 tahun...oleh Raj
[image error]Sara sudah mencintai Nathan sejak lama, dan heran kenapa Nathan gak jemput2 dia juga, sampai suatu hari Sara gak tahan lagi , berniat kabur dari rumah buat bantu bibi Nora nya melarikan diri dari paman Henry, disini ada adegan lucu, Sara yg gak pernah berprasangka buruk kabur turun dari jendela jemput bibi Nora, kepergok Nathan yg saat itu mau menculik dia, diam2 nathan ngikutin Sara yg hapir di rampok penjahat, dan Nathan yg melindungi dia ...unyu banget deeeh...dan Sara bilang sama bibi Nora,kalo itu cuma gossip jalanan London gak aman..aman aja kok....ya iyalah...ada Nathan yg menyingkirkan para penjahat2 itu....
O dear. It was just way too much of this....Lots of "bellowing" and crying...and when I say lots I mean LOTS!!! #nocluehowthesetwoactuallygottogether
This is the story of Nathan and Sara.
They don't see each other again until they are grown and Nathan doesn't want to be in violation of the contract and to get the rewards promised in fulfilling the contract.
Sara has grown into a beauty and has made up her life of how wonderful her husband will be and how happy they will be.
Her father is a greedy man who wants what was promised to them and is trying to find a way to get it.
I mean it is said but for me I just didn't buy it.
Her husband, who was married to her in childhood due to political machinations, spirits her off to his ship and she proceeds to accidentally almost kill everyone at least once, with certain sailors suffering multiple attempts, though slap-stick mishaps like getting her parasol stuck in rigging and then untying it to free the parasol and causing sails to fall down.
I love my husband that I don't even know and I'm the perfect wife!
Wait, he didn't use manners so I'm going to scream at him like a deranged harpy!
Wait, I'm going to weep for five chapters!
I remember I was working in a secondhand bookstore, (best job of my life!) I was reading this while waiting for customers to cash out, and I was laughing so hard that when a customer actually did come to me, I could not stop, I actually got really scared that I could not.
I had to duck behind the counter while trying to stop laughing with my bewildered customer looking for me.
I have now read this book numerous time and I still laugh every time but now I don't get hysterical.
Sara'nın vukuatları ve Nathan'ın tepkileri çok eğlenceliydi..Bu serideki kadın karakterlerin hepsi birbirinden manyak! Colin'i ne bekliyor çok merak ediyorum :D
Tatlı bir historicaldı..
Kitabın neredeyse yarısından çoğu Denizde geçtiği için o klasik İngiliz şaşası, görgü kuralları, çalışanların asiller ile olan Kocaman farklılığı ön olanda değildi ve bu kitabı daha sevecen hale getirmiş bence..
Şu sıralar ihtiyacım olan her şeye sahipti kitap..Ve Nathan kesinlikle sevilesi bir adam..
Bir adamın sevmeyi öğrenişini bir kadının yeniden ve yeniden vazgeçmeyişini okumak oldukça güzeldi.
Nathan rahatsız etmeyecek derecede sinirli olduğu için ve sevdiklerini koruma içgüdüsüne sadece önem verme adını verdiği için oldukça inatçı davransa da çok sevimliydi..
Sadece Nathan ın yaralarını geçmişini birazda olsa anlatan bir bölüm isterdim biraz kısa kalmış gibi hissettirdi bu kısmı..
Re-reading. So cute.
and a 1/2 for this glorious read! She'd imagined him to be a gentle, understanding, sensitive man who was thoroughly in love with her.Her dreams mocked her. Her knight was more tarnished than golden. He had just proven to be as understanding, as compassionate, as loving as a goat. A child bride, Sara Winchester had grown into a winsome beauty, joyfully anticipating the day when her husband Nathan, Marquess of St. James, would return to claim her heart at last. Charmingly innocent, she dismissed
The man who now stood before her was perplexing, arrogant and powerfully handsome...a warrior-gentleman whose gentle touch aroused her to the wildest, deepest pleasures of love.Nathan had never bared his soul to any woman, but he was soon utterly beguiled and exasperated by Sara's sweet, defiant ways.
****Ok - so Sara and Nathan get married when she is 4 and he's 14, by order of the mad king.
Sara is amazing - she risks everything to help her aunt, tries to defend her family, and wants desperately to be loved by her new family (Nathan and his crew.) I just adored her.
Some may see this is a good and some may see this as bad, but for me, a great deal of the fun of a J.G. heroine is the improbable fact that she saves the day and sometimes the entire country throughout the book using her mad skillz in healing, bow shooting, knife throwing, midwifing, etc etc...
Personally, I think you take away a Garwood heroine's save-the-day skills and you get a cute and sometimes annoying simpleton - sort of like a cat I used to have and dearly miss despite her missing brain cells.
30% DNF - I can't handle the naiveness of the heroine - I'm out
3-3,5
What an annoying little woman >.> yes heroine, I’m talking to you
The price of a peace between two feuding families as decreed by the king,was marriage.Thats how 14 y
Did not love Nathan. He was a jerk. Sara was ok. But just too naive and forgiving for me. I won't label this as a second chance since she was 4 when they married.
Disappointed eff.
