https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140345.Absent_In_The_Spring
This book made me profoundly uncomfortable, which I believe was the whole point of it. Pick it up when you're in the mood for some self-reflection. It certainly made me want to be a kinder, more loving person & caused me to wonder, uneasily, how my actions and motives might appear to others.
It had been quite easy to fill her life with unimportant trivialities that left her no time for self-knowledge.
Astounding and tragic and painful to read.‘ He thought, You are alone and you always will be.
But, please God, you’ll never know it.’The astute story of self deception, complacency,, self satisfaction, judgement, blinkered delusion and the most awful of all, the choice not to act once the veil is lifted.I love a good Agatha Christie mystery but this book is in a different class.
I am now very interested in Christie as a woman and plan to find out more about her.
One can do so much by influence."Absent in the Spring is the book that Agatha Christie describes as her favourite piece of work - not because it is her best but because it was the book she really wanted to write.Amazingly, it is a pretty good story even though there is not a single murder in sight!The story follows Joan Scudamore, a middle-class wife and mother who is returning from a visit to her daughter in Iraq and is stuck in the middle of nowhere, in a desert, because of the railway lines being flooded.
Unlike her other works, this story does not feature any crime but instead a middle-aged woman stuck in an isolated rest house in the desert for days, waiting for a train to take her back to civilisation.
The reader is enticed to gather all the clues of this life, especially the details in between the lines, to put together the picture of this woman and her influence, like an investigation.
Everyone wonders where the author disappeared for those 11 days, but did she do just that - find herself an isolated spot and analyse her life, especially the signs pertaining to her husband that she had refused to see...
Absent in the Spring is considered by many to be one of her quiet masterpiece novels.
Joan Scudmore has it all; she looks good for her age, has a handsome husband with happy children, a respectable house and a good name, but when she is stuck at a desert outpost on the way back to England she is forced to retrace the past.
As the past unravels, Joan feels the cracks in her life reveal themselves till she realises that from her family, from her friends, and indeed from the rest of the world, she has indeed been absent in the spring.
It is this exploration of human nature that makes Absent in the Spring a Christie tour de force.
Σε γενικές γραμμές λοιπόν ότι η συγγραφέας με αρκετό σεβασμό και σύνεση αποτυπώνει τον αγώνα της ηρωίδας της ν’ ανακαλύψει τον εαυτό της, ν’αμφισβητήσει τα πεπραγμένα της, να παλέψει ενάντια στη μοναξιά της και ν’ αναμετρηθεί με τους δαίμονες της ένα προς ένα.Δε θα βρείτε μεγάλες αποκαλύψεις, σπουδαίες ανατροπές, ούτε θα ξεπεταχτεί κανένας δολοφόνος μέσα από τις σελίδες του αλλά αν σας ενδιαφέρει ν’ ακούσετε μάλλον να διαβάσετε ένα βιβλίο για τις σχέσεις μεταξύ των ανθρώπων και την αγχώδη και πολύπλοκη ανάγκη όλων μας ν’ ανακαλύψουμε τον εαυτό μας η σύντομη αυτή ιστορία αποτελεί μια καλή επιλογή.
Και τώρα, τόσα χρόνια μετά, αντί να διαβάσω ένα από τα τόσα ωραία μυθιστορήματα μυστηρίου που έχει γράψει, διάβασα ένα κοινωνικό μελόδραμα που έγραψε με το ψευδώνυμο Μαίρη Γουέστμακοτ, το οποίο μόλις κυκλοφόρησε για πρώτη φορά στα ελληνικά.Σαν θεματολογία δεν μπορώ να πω ότι ανήκει ακριβώς στα αναγνωστικά μου γούστα: Μια μεσήλικη γυναίκα, κατά την επιστροφή της στην Αγγλία έπειτα από μια επίσκεψη στην κόρη της στο Ιράκ, βρίσκεται μόνη και αποκλεισμένη σ'έναν ξενώνα στη μέση του πουθενά, λόγω πλημμύρας στον σιδηρόδρομο.
Having read so many Agatha Christie novels - I have not (untill now) read any of the Mary Westmacott books.
Her Mary Westmacott novels (of which I believe there are 6) are about crimes of the heart.
This one Absent in the spring, I found really good indeed.
Middle aged Joan Scudamore is totally isolated, while stranded in a rest house in Iraq, her lonlieness playing on her mind, allows her to look back over key points in her life with a clear eye.
I can't wait to read more Mary Westmacott novels now.
A fascinating portrait of a remarkably unobservant and unaware woman, Joan Scudamore.
While Joan states her views on these people and what a good wife and mother she is and marriage she has, it becomes rapidly clear that the people around her have very different and much more realistic impressions of the woman Joan actually is.
Joan’s insistence on her views, her lack of sensitivity, compassion and insight have caused a lot of harm to her relationships, to which she is completely unaware.
And then it all comes down on her, her pretty pictures revealing themselves to be quite different.
Agatha Christie said that Absent in the spring was the most personal book she published.
– Extract from her biography: “Shortly after that, I wrote the one book that has satisfied me completely.
If she thought they were completely happy and in love, had the perfect family… If she, years after her divorce, realized how nothing really was as she had assumed, how she had missed details, how she had “known” things and had “forgotten” them.I don’t think I would have enjoyed this book without having read her bio first.
But still, the book is wonderfully written.
¡Ah, si! Se había preguntado si no teniendo uno nada más que hacer que reflexionar durante días y días, no llegaría a descubrir cosas ignoradas sobre sí mismo. Este libro es el retrato perfecto de por qué la gente le teme a la soledad y al silencio... Y es porque se tienen miedo a sí mismos! A descubrirse y entonces darse cuenta de todas las partes oscuras que uno tiene.Porque entonces, ¿qué se hace después de este descubrimiento? ¿Cómo sigue uno su vida? ¿Se atrevería uno a hacer lo necesario
Se había preguntado si no teniendo uno nada más que hacer que reflexionar durante días y días, no llegaría a descubrir cosas ignoradas sobre sí mismo.
A descubrirse y entonces darse cuenta de todas las partes oscuras que uno tiene.Porque entonces, ¿qué se hace después de este descubrimiento?
¿O preferiría uno vivir de una ilusión para no sufrir?Es verdad que muchas veces, vemos lo que queremos ver.
Cuando las cosas van bien, una cree que aquello durará siempre, y es imposible.
It's about a rather smug woman who has to spend a few days at an isolated middle east desert outpost while waiting for a train, with no one to talk to and nothing to do.
Much of the writing is stream-of-consciousness style in this short book, easy to read, but powerful in it's effect.In another review on goodreads, one reader described the book as a devastating portrayal of the emotional isolation the character suffers when denial is her coping mechanism.
Another reviewer, said the book made her profoundly uncomfortable, and that's probably what it was supposed to do.
This book makes you examine your own actions and true motivation...selfish or unselfish?
Yes, it makes one quite uncomfortable.
Já sabia que seria uma leitura diferente do que a Agatha nos habituou na maior parte da sua obra.
É um livro que nos faz pensar muito em quem somos e como as pessoas nos vêem.
Percebo o porquê da autora ter optado por um final mais realista e mais próximo da realidade, mesmo assim, eu senti a necessidade de um final que não fosse em vão.
Depois de terminarmos este livro, sem duvida que precisamos mesmo de fazer uma auto-reflexão profunda de quem somos e quem queremos ser.
This novel has made me introspective.
The main character is a smug woman who has detached herself from the realities in her life because she just doesn't want to deal with it.Dame Agatha Christie, writing as Mary Westmacott, masterfully follows the unfolding of Joan Scudamore's self realization.
She runs out of reading materials, and has no diversions whatsoever, and thus is forced to spend some quality time in reflection.This novel was well written.
Even though this wasn't typical Dame Agatha mystery fare, I would argue that it unfolded in a manner similar to a good mystery.
In my view, this is the best and most personally challenging book that Agatha Christie wrote.
Definitely a book worth reading several times and doing some self-examination.“Shortly after that, I wrote the one book that has satisfied me completely.
It was a new Mary Westmacott, the book that I had always wanted to write, that had been clear in my mind.
What brought about this revelation would be the fact that for the first time in her life she was alone – completely alone – for four or five days." http://www.agathachristie.com/about-c...
Are you who you think you are? This book delves into the life of Joan Scudmore who takes the time to rethink her life. She uncovers unfortunate truths about her perfect life and her own belief of her all-knowing perfection. This was an unsettling book when applied to my own life. Who am I, as others see me? Am I who I think I am?A marvelous work of fiction from Agatha Christie. Prepare to have your life put under the microscope.
4.5/5Es un libro distinto al género que me más gusta, el políciaco, a pesar de haber sido escrito por Agatha Christie (bajo un pseudonimo); sin embargo, me hizo pensar en cómo vemos el mundo, cómo el mundo nos ve y como esas dos versiones no coinciden en muchas ocasiones. Es un libro simple, pero muy profundo, sin ser pretencioso, que demuestra el gran conocimiento de la autora de la naturaleza humana. Es ágil a pesar de prácticamente tener una sola protagonista y no llega a cansar. Me sorprendió gratamente.Lo recomiendo.
A completely different Agatha Christie novel. I had no idea she wrote under a pseudonym, even grittier slice of life stories. A little Alan Bennet, a little Flannery O'Conner. A dash of Wallace Stegner, Nancy Mitford, and Muriel Spark.This was complicated, witty, twisty and suspenseful in ways that had nothing to do with crime.
What a clever way to tell a story.Glad I knew nothing about thethe book as I started listening.Not as enjoyable listening with aa text to speech app but,still entertaining.Clean except for a few foul words.
Acho que este livro acabou de mudar a minha vida.
Mudar não é fácil e podemos saber que temos de o fazer e acabamos por não o conseguir.
Com este livro lembrei-me da razão pelo qual acredito em Deus.
Lembrei-me da razão pelo qual luto todos os dias para ser uma pessoa melhor.
É quando estamos sozinhos que nos enfrentamos a nós mesmos.
Por isso, temos de lutar todos os dias para nos amar-mos a nós mesmos e ser sinceros connosco próprios e, assim, amar-mos o próximo e ser para eles o que merecem.
Agatha Christie writing as Mary Westmacott.Nothing actually happens in this book; it's all about self-discovery:A woman races off from England to the Middle East to help her ailing daughter, and along the way there and back learns about herself.
She learns that she is controlling.
That she controls herself.
That others in her life are not happy.
That she is not happy.
Sounds dreadful, but somehow it all ties together and I liked Miss Christie's voice and descriptions.
Interesting to see this side of Miss Christie, having previously known her only as the shrewd and brilliant Poirot and Marple.
Agatha knows how to write and I find her writing style in this novel very therapeutic and soothing. The words just flow freely and connect with each other creating a very balanced story. What I liked the most about Absent in the Spring is what an amazing job the author did at making the reader doubt about who is telling the truth. Well done!
2.5/5 demasiado introspección para mi.
...pasirodo Agatha Christie kure ne tik detektyvus, bet ir psichologinius romanus.
It’s always surprising when you find a masterpiece of writing. I read it in one day, a short 250pages but it was totally fascinating. What happens when you have 5 days alone with nothing to do, and nothing to read and no one to talk to? Sounds scary and boring, well it wasn’t boring, Joan is endlessly entertaining, loved the characters, loved the subtle discoveries in Joan’s life. A truly amazing example of great writing.
I'm not sure what to think of this book. Only that I didn't really enjoy reading it. It was an interesting idea, a woman having to come to terms with herself, but the execution was lackluster. It just seemed to drone on and on and on with no redemption in sight. And once we do, it's gone in the blink of an eye. Wish I loved Agatha Christie as Mary Westmacott, but it seems that this other side of her is unknown for somewhat of a reason.
It defines the thin line between "self-awareness," making allowance for other people's opinions, and hypercritical, fault-finding attitude, and that maybe, just maybe, we don't always have to be "aware," ignorance is bliss indeed."You can take it from me, Averil, that a man who's not doing the work he wants to do - the work he was meant to do - is only half a man." - Rodney Scudamore"Yes, you're quite right, Joan, you have made a success of your life, and I - well, I've made a mess of mine.
2.5 stars!
Brilliant & chilling
I love the way she slowly starts revealing all the truths that were outside this little bubble that she created for herself, it's written as some sort of revelation, that only made me want to continue reading, to discover the way things really were, and not what she tried to convince herself of.I 100% recommend this book, the pace is a bit slow, and right in the middle it gets a bit monotone, but other than that, is an inward-looking story worth to be read and that invites an analysis of the life of the main character and of course, our own life.
