https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/484531.Fletch

But Fletch is an odd case because in some ways the movie is very much like the book, but at the same time it isn’t.
Then he embarks on a clandestine investigation to find out if the man really is dying of cancer while still trying to figure out the source of the drugs on the beach as his editor demands that he print what he already knows.Sounds like the movie, right?
The running gag of him pretending to be various people let him act like an idiot while still being the smug guy who is playing everyone.The Fletch of the book is also a quick witted smart ass, but he isn’t a goofball.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این داستانِ جنایی و معمایی، از 39 فصل و 248 صفحه تشکیل شده استداستان از این قرار است که مردی به نامِ <فلچ> یا همان <فله چر> که نویسندهٔ هنری و محققِ آثار و نقاشی ها و تابلوهایِ هنری میباشد و در شهرِ رُم ایتالیا زندگی میکند، طی یک مبادله و معاوضه منزلش را با شخصی به نامِ <کانرز> در شهرِ بوستونِ آمریکا عوض میکند، بدونِ آنکه یکدیگر را دیده باشند و یا بشناسندخلاصه آنکه <فلچ> با پرواز، خود را به بوستون رسانده و پس از وارد شدن به خانه، تصمیم میگیرد برایِ خوردنِ
‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، این داستانِ جنایی و معمایی، از 39 فصل و 248 صفحه تشکیل شده است‎داستان از این قرار است که مردی به نامِ <فلچ> یا همان <فله چر> که نویسندهٔ هنری و محققِ آثار و نقاشی ها و تابلوهایِ هنری میباشد و در شهرِ رُم ایتالیا زندگی میکند، طی یک مبادله و معاوضه منزلش را با شخصی به نامِ <کانرز> در شهرِ بوستونِ آمریکا عوض میکند، بدونِ آنکه یکدیگر را دیده باشند و یا بشناسند‎خلاصه آنکه <فلچ> با پرواز، خود را به بوستون رسانده و پس از وارد شدن به خانه، تصمیم میگیرد برایِ خوردنِ ناهار به رستوران رود...
زمانی که به منزل بازمیگردد، چشمانش به جنازهٔ دخترِ لخت شده ای در بخشِ پذیراییِ منزلش می افتد، بنابراین با پلیس تماس گرفته و موضوع را اطلاع میدهد‎مأمورِ رسیدگی به این پرونده، بازرس <فلاین> نام دارد...
قتلِ به گردنِ <فلچ> افتاده است...
(Silly me, little did I know.) When I looked at it more closely, I noticed it was an Edgar Award Winner.The Edgars are given yearly to mysteries and like those, including my friend Will Byrnes who watches all the Oscar nominees, I try to read as many Edgar nominees and winners as possible.
Good reading, everyone, and pick this one up next time you see it; it was worthy of the Edgar Award, the Oscar in mystery books.
The lone man in my book club likes only very dry factual (NO speculation) history ... or so I thought. It turns out that he likes mysteries, so I asked him to recommend a few, hoping we could find some common ground. (I really like him, and his partner, Sylvia.) This was the first book he recommended. I did enjoy it; it was light, amusing. I'm surprised, as it wasn't at all what I expected him to like. I love finding layers of people that are surprising.
Even 35 years after its publication, "Fletch" still feels original: its main character is a newspaper reporter rather than the typical cop or private investigator, and the book never loses its sense of fun, a quality so often lacking in detective novels.
Mcdonald's writing style is suitably terse for a story about a reporter, and Irwin Fletcher's own writing within the book is exactly right for newspapers of the time.
The book is so complete and ends so perfectly that I almost don't want to know how Mcdonald manages to bring Irwin Fletcher back in the first sequel.
Strange book. I don't think it's worn well. It's tightly plotted, the dialogue's fun, and it moves right along, but it's one of those books where the main character is just untouchable, you know he can never be beaten, ever, at anything, in any way, he's always right, always, about everything, always, and along the way he's going to put everyone else in their place, especially the women, the pesky women. And he does!
In Fletch, Gregory McDonald follows a basic setup of many pulp detective novels.
There's a well-heeled client who wants to hire detective, but the job is odd.
It's suspicious and little by little the detective it's together what's going on.
Only here instead of a detective, McDonald gives us an irreverent hotshot reporter living like a hippie bum on the Beach with the runaways and drug addicts trying to put together a story working undercover.
And the client thinks Fletch is a drifter like the other losers and addicts scattered across the sand.
The big difference is how dialogue driven the novel is.
Gregory Macdonald tells the story with minimal descriptive paragraphs and instead allows the reader to discover things through the use of various conversations taking place between Irwin Fletcher and whomever he's talking to.
Macdonald has a good ear for dialogue and most of the conversations have echoes of the wit of Fletch.
(It's hard to read and not hear Chevy Chase delivering Fletch's dialogue).
I can see why the series has been so popular and well remembered by fans.
I may have to look for more of this series in 2010.
What an outstanding read. Funny, satirical, with a lot of heart, crackling dialogue...oh yeah, and a pretty solid mystery. It has none of the goofiness, and better plotting than the Chase flick (which I really do enjoy as its own entity)The first--and possibly best--of a great series. Worth reading again and again.
What a fun read. Fletch, the morally challenged journalist who may have a personality disorder investigates Alan Stanwyck, who has hired him to murder...Alan Stanwyck. Fast paced. Great dialog. Ingenious plotting and execution.
Unscrupulous hero, very funny. Really really loved this book.Someone needs to remake its movie now. Right now.
I think the character of Fletch had potential but there were some aspects of his character (like him throwing his girlfriend's cat out a 7-story window) that I could tell were the author's intention of making the character endearing to the reader but that instead made me dislike him.
Maybe I'm just of a different generation but I don't think that was funny.
But again, making him throw one out a 7-story window is unnecessary.
But I felt like the author didn't write her character thoroughly enough to demonstrate said status of 'stupid bitch' well enough.
This book was perfection, I loved every single page of it.
This book is rated one of the top 100 mysteries of all time by the Crime Writers of America. I can see why. It is clean, concise, clever, and funny. A gem of a book.
As long as the instinct for power beats in the breasts of men and women, there will be a restricted clawing called Society.""I spent a summer on a ranch when I was a kid.
Boring.
Incredibly boring.
All the men look like pretzels.
And when they talk they sound like a Dick-and-Jane book.""From his appearance, Chief of Police Graham Cummings could not have been anything else.
A jawline like a shovel scoop.
A man of his appearance in any town would almost automatically be given the job of police chief."

McDonald wrote 9 in total, as well as a couple of son of Fletch books and a 4 book Flynn series, which apparently is a spin-off featuring a cop we encounter further down the road with our man Irwin Fletcher.Full list of the books is as follows, thanks to Fantastic Fiction:Fletch1.
Remember these books were better than the movies.
Recommended for: Pulp Fiction lovers (not the movie); fans of clever and irreverent main characters; people not offended by old-fashioned patriarchal attitudes.All I knew with regards to this book before reading was the movie that was based on it.
The book is very different from the movie.In the film, Fletch is essentially the same character-- he's womanizing, reckless, and clever.
Long story short, the movie Fletch was more likeable.Still...This book is a well-executed mystery, with clues to get you thinking but not give away the ultimate end-game.
A little more than liked it.4 stars for the movie.
Some stories, at the end when the "who-done-it" is revealed, the recount information that was never introduced in the story.I am thinking of Truman Capote's line in the film "Murder By Death" by Neil Simon (a must-see-film) Lionel Twain : "You've tricked and fooled your readers for years.
You've introduced characters in the last five pages that were never in the book before.
Millions of angry mystery readers are now getting their revenge.
When the world learns I've outsmarted you, they'll be selling your $1.95 books for twelve cents."The mystery was well done with great characters.
"Fletch" introduces Fletch, an investigative reporter who happens to be the types I can relate to.
Intelligent, cocky, obnoxious, witty and always a step ahead.
The setup is pretty odd when an industrialist hires Fletch to murder him while Fletch was undercover on the beach to bust a drug racket.
The other thing you will love is Fletch's complete disdain for incompetence in his professional supervisors.
Though there are two separate plot-lines, Mr. McDonald delivers a gripping novel where the plots don't converge much.
You can go ahead and expect some SOLID DETECTIVE WORK which is complete value for your time and money.
When I was 16, Fletch was everything I wanted to be.He could go anywhere, do anything, and talk his way out of anything.Gregory McDonald taught me how beautiful dialog could be, and I'll never forgive the Chevy Chase movies for cheapening my memories of that beautiful back and forth.To see one of the smartest, most complex characters in fiction reduced to the status of a clown broke my heart. I can only hope that the movie brought some people to the book.
This was a quick, fun read that uses snappy dialog effectively. The plot is deceptively simple and reading it forty years on, it's a great look back to the early 1970's. Some of McDonald's dialogue would probably get a red lining by today's editors. Oh, and for fans of the movie, book Fletch is a smart ass but he's also kind of a jerk. There are several instances where he comes across as mean, such as when he throws his ex-wife's cat out a window or calls his editor a bitch.
You've got to like Fletch, the edgy, hard-boiled news reporter. This story uses lots of twists but our man Fletch is on top of them all. Clipped dialogue has flashes of humor. Great entertainment. The author Gregory Mcdonald who won back-to-back Edgars recently passed away. Bottom line: I'll read deeper into the series.
This is the rare instance where the movie is better than the book
Great mystery novel. Fletch is an awesome protagonist. Really, really funny too!
While the character might work for some, and is no doubt a fair reflection of a certain kind of man, I found him tiresome and annoying: Fletch is a lying, cheating, conniving, arrogant, self-centred, know-it-all misogynist with dubious morals (he’s sleeping with a fifteen year old drug-addict while working undercover, he’s giving both his ex-wives the run-around, and he’s killed the cat belonging to one of them) – qualities that make him a good journalist but a fairly shitty person.
The result was a kind of lighter-hearted PI tale that had two main strands which work their way to a somewhat inevitable but nicely wrapped up denouement, but had a lead character for whom I couldn’t care less.
The unbelivable way everyone was so willing to tell him anything and believe his lies without any proof.
I didn't like the repeating of facts we had already heard / knew / read by following the book.
His dictation for his own notes would sometimes go on for several pages and just be repeating what we had literally just read.i could have taken off one star for all of this but i didn't because the book as a whole was excellent and SO clever.
It was quite funny in its own way too.
The 1985 film based on this novel is an under-rated title that I've seen probably 4 times, the most recent time being maybe 10 years ago.
Sizzling dialog throughout, a great hook, lots of humor, and a well-developed mystery.
Perhaps the one thing that seemed a bit odd was it being a third-person narrative which, ordinarily I'm a fan of but, seemed like the wrong decision.
Maybe I'm just so used to the similarly toned Spenser novels from Robert B.
I feel like this is comedy first and mystery second, but it works as both.
