https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11590._Salem_s_Lot
Vampire stories have been around for a long time - after all, people love a good scare, and what is more terrifying than a monster showing up at night and sucking the life essence out of you?
It is this portrayal of everyday people's secrets, of the towns being almost like living breathing organisms that is one of the big reasons why I am a huge fan of Stephen King's works.From the very first pages of the novel we know that some terrible fate made 'Salem's Lot a ghost town with apparently only a couple of survivors.
Nothing distracts the reader from the vampire story unfolding on the background of small-town horrors.
I even watched the crapfest that I considered the made for tv movie based on this book, and I think I might have been a *little* too harsh on it, too.So flash-forward to now, when I jump up the rating from a scathing 3 stars to a full-blown 5, an adult reading an adult novel of suspense, emotionally invested characters, subtle humor, more high-brow words than I remember Stephen King usually using in his novels, and beautifully crafted passages of hometown life falling into what might as well have been a modern retelling of a medieval town falling under the spell of the Black Plague, with all the horror and sadness and superstition that entails.This novel was gripping and intense to my adult sensibilities.
4.5 starsI feel like there has been a lot of debate over Stephen King's last few books about what genre he might be considered anymore.
Well, if you want to get back to the roots, Salem's Lot is pure, raw, old school Stephen King horror at its finest!I am doing a re-read of most of Stephen King's books chronologically and Salem's Lot was the next after Carrie.
Salem's Lot is a vampire story influenced by vampire fiction, like Stoker's Dracula, as well as vampire horror flicks.
Vampires.Years after I first read it, I can truthfully say that this is still on a short list of scariest books I have ever read. King at his best. An American re-telling of Dracula, King stays close to the vampire myth but with some of his own storytelling thrown in and some subtle changes that make for an original novel. I cannot help but think that Barlow helped to usher in a new generation of vampire literature, of which we have now been inundated for the past few years.
لوهلة ظننت أن الرواية عن مصاصي الدماء، رعب تقليدي فحسب، لكم كنت مخطئاالرواية عن الشر نفسه والظلام الذي لا نراه إلا بعد فوات الأوان "لقد تغير مفهوم الكنيسة الكاثوليكية للشر عموما بشكل جذري في القرن العشرين بسبب فرويد..فلم يعد الشر هو ذاك الشيطان الأحمر بقرون وذيل وحوافر، أو ثعبانا يزحف في حديقة، الشيطان طبقا لإنجيل فرويد، له هوية مركبة عملاقة، هو اللاوعي أو العقل الباطن الخاص بنا جميعا" قصة مدينة صغيرة يرسم لك ستيفين كينج بشكل بانورامي اخر ايامها قبل اختفاءها الغامضممتزج بها فلسفة عميقة مقدمة بشك
والذي اشتري ايضا محلا ضخما مع شريكا له انجليزيا يدعي ستاركر ليبيع به انتيكات اجنبية واثريةتأتي الصناديق من الجمارك ، من بينهم صندوق كبير ثقيل جدا يجد عمال الشحن صعوبة في حمله، لكن ستاركر يحمله بكل سهولة...ستاركر هو الواجهة بينما بارلو لم يقابله احد بعد في المدينة حيث انه في سفريات عملربما الجزء الماضي الخاص بالصناديق من دولة اجنبية سيذكرك برائعة برام ستوكر...وأعتقد ان سيكون لديك فكرة عاما ما سيأتي بهاولكن لا تقلق ، فالمؤلف أشار لرواية برام ستوكر بنفسه اكثر من مرة خلال الأحداث ، فلا احد في الحقيقة اشياء سخيفة كمصاصي الدماء....هذا شغل روايات كما قيل في تلك الرواية نفسها
I was a bit of a wimp before I entered my teen years...so I stayed away from anything vampire.
The scary blood suckers would have to wait to frighten me.
Next was Fright Night...again not so scary- I would have welcomed Christopher Sarandon nibbling at my neck for all eternity.
A year later I was hooked on Interview with a Vampire's beautiful and tragic characters....but nothing to panic about yet...Enter into my life- the book SALEM'S LOT!!!
Now these were vampires that kept me awake at night- pulling my covers up just under my nose.
I hate vampires.
I hate them and I hate books about them.
I hate the way they're romanticized and sexualized and just generally presented in modern fiction.
That's why I loved this book.
King doesn't shy away from the fact that vampires are creatures of horror and he presents them as such.
They are vile, violent, and everywhere, and that's the way I like them.The characters pitted against them, particularly the priest, are compelling and almost too human to face the vampires.
And, in the end, they don't actually triumph.
It's tragic and horrible and the perfect vampire book.
Hey. I’m not a vampire fan, okay?I mean, I am cool with scary books, and I read scary books, but vampires...They’re just not really my thing.
And in his second book Stephen King wrote a story about vampires.
Thank God he didn’t write a story about werewolves for his second book.
Anyway, I’m not giving this story four stars because of the vampires.
After writing Carrie, King added a lot more pages to his next book, and he really takes his time with this one.
I just finished a re-read of this book with the Horror Aficionados group here at Goodreads.
I first read this book in junior high or high school.
I've read The Stand and IT a couple of times each, but I never did pick this one up again.
We meander through the town, meeting its residents and learning about their daily lives.
Quote: "The town cares for devil's work no more than it cares for God's or man's.
It knew darkness.
And darkness was enough."I feel that's all I need to say.
If you haven't read this tale, you should.
FULL REVIEW UP4 bloody and bite worthy stars! ⭐⭐⭐⭐'Salem's Lot was a nice venture into the mind of Stephen King in regard to vampires! I’ve read so many vampire stories over the years that I went into this one hopeful and looking for something different.Did I get a different type of vampire tale? Not really but I got something similar to the classic Dracula and I was all about that!Stephen King really got the culture and characteristics of vampires down.You can tell he liked Dracula because 'Sal
I loved the main characters of Ben Mears, Matt Burke and my personal favorite, Mark Petrie.
If this had been cleaned up a bit, I feel the story would have been seamless from the introduction of Ben Mears, Richard Straker and Kurt Barlow to the tense ending with the undead.Recommended to all Stephen King fans, vampire lovers and fans of horror!
The horror that King conjures up here is not just a direct consequence of the emergence of an unknown, malevolent force which destabilizes the functioning of a secluded small town but the sinister darkness of the human soul which needs just the right trigger to be unleashed, to soundlessly absorb all capacity for reason and leave a bestial urge for carnage in its place.
All accusations of profit-making and sacrificing good writing on the altar of plot can be damned to hell.
This should've received 5 stars from me, but I was a bit disappointed with this novel.I swear I wanted to love this novel, but it was an okay read for me.
I guess it's also a good thing that I really liked the main character, but it's also a bad thing that everyone else were a bit flat and lifeless.The plot was not bad, and the execution was also quite good.
King is good with setting centered novels (Pet Sematary), so I'll be redundant and repeat that I'm probably the problem here, and not the novel.3.5/5 stars.
But, we don't see the hidden rot that lurks beneath the sleepy facade.Stephen King does a lot to shatter that myth with 'Salem's Lot. This a horror novel about a vampire who destroys a town from the inside out.
With this novel, Mr. King showed me both kinds of monsters.Do you believe that there are no true secrets in a small town?
Mr. King was a fan of Bram Stoker's Dracula, and he wrote 'Salem's Lot as an unofficial homage to that classic vampire novel.
When writer Ben Mears moves back to 'Salem's Lot, a sleepy Maine town he spent a few years living in as a child, he has bitten off more than he can chew.
While I remembered the bare bones of the plot, most of it had been lost in the sands of time so it was a pretty suspenseful read the second time through.Ben Mears is the first instance of what has become a Stephen King staple over the years: the writer as the main character.
He, and his newly turned children, are everything vampires should be; they’re beautiful, but their beauty is a disturbing and deadly.
King did a great job of making the house itself super disturbing.In recent years, I’ve grown to love reading horror novels during the month of October; they just get me excited for the changing seasons and cooler weather and Halloween.
Keep in mind that this book was originally published in 1975, long before we as a modern society decided that vampires should be lusted after instead of feared, but it was still refreshing to read a novel that gave the bloodsuckers back their throne of fear.
They simply want to fucking drain you.(view spoiler)[Like many people, my first experience with 'Salem's Lot had to do with Tobe Hooper's amazing made-for-television adaptation.
The mute Nosferatu-like Barlow of Hooper's version is nothing like the mustachioed Dracula-esque Barlow of King's book.
Some even find Hooper's version of Barlow to be scarier for that reason.
The Barlow of the book is cold and cunning and terrifying, but Hooper's vision can freeze the blood on site.
If you would like to suggest vampire novels that you think are scarier, go ahead, but know that I have read all about Rice's slumberfests, Stoker's diaries, and McCammon's bloodsuckers.
I don’t read a lot of horror, so it’s taken me a bit longer than most to recognize the genius of Stephen King.
King is so ubiquitous (he’s written over 50 books) and so much a part of popular culture that it’s become hard to read one of his books without knowing everything about it before the first sentence.
Salem’s Lot is set in the small Maine town of Jerusalem’s Lot. A writer named Ben Mears, who grew up there, comes into town to write a novel and exorcise his demons.
Published in 1975, Salem’s Lot was King’s second novel, after Carrie.
I've learned my lesson, time and time again--unfortunately, I watched many of these movies years ago, before I was into Stephen King's books....introduced only 5 or 6 years ago to those (a gift from an english major started me off with Lisey's Story, which started with his later works--and he kept giving me more of those as he finished them another lesson learned!) I have made my way through a ton of novels, and finally realized two things: it is best to read his works in order (they build on each other in so many ways--many, like the one just mentioned above, deserve a re-reading after a few Dark Tower reads), and (thinking I didn't like short story collections, I was forced to try some that he wrote), I found out his short stories are as good as the novels, sometimes I want more, but often they are just right--or better, and more would ruin them.
It's only because Ben is the White Knight of the book that I feel it needs to be addressed.) - Susan does something very stupid and (I feel) very out of character when she (view spoiler)[ decides to go hunt down the big, evil, ancient powerful vampire all by herself armed only with a broken fence slat.
I admired the character AND his decision at the end to flee - it made a lot of sense to me and didn't make him any "less of a man" in my eyes.GOOD AND EVIL:Again, for people who haven't read King or think King writes about grimy cesspools without hope - that's not true (in this book).
I fall more in love with this book and its characters every single time I read it.
I always have a hard time enjoying vampire novels and I definitely think that stems from my love of this book.
I really enjoy the whole cast of characters as a whole but my favourite by far is definitely Mark, that kid is one hell of a warrior and steals my heart every damn time I read this book!
I could really go on and on about how much I love this book, it's most definitely one of my favourite King books!
I love reading books multiple times because each time I read it I feel completely different about it.
Each time its like reading a new book.
I first read Salem's Lot when I was a teenager, I liked it but I didn't fully appreciate it.
One of the things I've come to appreciate most about Stephen King is his ability to bring out the horror of everyday life.
Salem's Lot is how I imagine a real life vampire attack would happen.
The vampire would move to a small insular town and slowly rip it apart.
Maybe the greatest vampire novel of all time. Certainly one of the scariest stories I've ever read. I loved everything about this book. The audio version is also excellent, narrated by Ron McClarty. The best vampire book since SALEM'S LOT would have to be   by Michael Rowe.
I would have to admit that Stephen King and his weird ass books hold the record of keeping me up late into the night, regardless of the day of week.
In Salem’s Lot, King writes about a town fallen victim to vampires.
I will admit, I am one of those overly excited fans of vampire literature so this was so down my alley.
There is romance, there is weirdness, there is epic storytelling, and there is creepiness because it is a King book and that is what you expect and want!My quick and simple overall: I loved this creepy book and even this freaky little town.
Brilliant! Just Brilliant!I wasn't even born in 1975 when the book was published, yet i connected with the story and the characters. They didn't seem old fashioned and out-dated. Stephen King sure knows how to captivate the reader and scare the shit out of them in his typical way. Aptly, we had a couple of nights of thunderstorms here and suffice it to say i had to check the windows to make sure they were closed properly.
While their characters are developed during the beginning of the novel, Stephen King temporarily throws irritating events into the game, e.g. a boy disappearing without any traces to be found, or the mysterious background history of Marsten House, a dark mansion located close to Jerusalem’s Lot’s smalltown-life.
The fight scenes were especially well-written, especially at those times when the Church was involved (either through crucifixes, references to the Bible or the appearances of Father Callahan himself), but he focussed even more on developing his characters and making the story feel real to the reader.
There are thousands of reviews of this book.
My review is for the AUDIO CD version, which I thought was pretty darned well done.This was read by actor Ron McClarty yet another one of those guys I've undoubtedly seen in dozens of things but can't quite place.
I'm looking forward to more Stephen King on audio in the months to come.And, okay - one thing about the book .
(view spoiler)[When they discovered the blue chalk, and every character immediately thinks school?
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Loved it more the second time around. This book is soooo tense! It's everything you need in a horror book. This book remains the only book that I've had a physical reaction to. I was that spooked that I jumped a little and dropped my book (kindle). Too bad everyone on the train seen me do it... King at his best.
Hiking on a trail in Carpathians (same Carpathians that count Dracula had his monstrous castle in), getting soaked to the bone* (oh how I hate the treacherous mountain weather!), with my ankles notoriously sinking in deep mud (you'd be surprised how quickly that ground on that trail can turn into something with the consistence of butter) with 3 hours of marching left, and scared I would soon go crazy** with cold and exhaustion, as a means of distraction from it all, I pulled out my mp3 player and set it to Salem's Lot.The story did its job splendidly.
From the moment that a clearly haunted Ben Mears comes to the Lot and tells of his childhood encounter with a ghost, it was on for me.Stephen King's vampires are truly horrific, easily characterised as demonically possessed, blood drinking ghosts with the power to mesmerise their victims - never, ever, look into their eyes.Like some other stories by Stephen King that I have read, hell is other people, and the people of Salem's Lot provide a full panorama view of themselves falling prey to their own natures as much as they fall prey to the curse of vampires sweeping their town.On a technical note, I was completely surprised by the authors use of a deus ex machina about half way through the novel.
This was my second Stephen King read which I really enjoyed.
The mystery is gradually unveiled with a lots of deaths and horrors along the way.Stephen King definitely lives up to his distinguished talent in writing horror as this is a prime example.
It is full of monstrosities, woven in with a fantastic story and striking characters.
This novel certainly impressed me as I thoroughly enjoyed it and I will most definitely be investing in more Stephen King novels.
