https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13199.A_Quiver_Full_of_Arrows
Dear Jeffrey Archer,Your long novels suck but your short stories are amazing.
Do not bother writing any more long novels as that will waste time that could be spent on creating short stories of beauty.Sincerely,An apologetically honest fanP.S If you didn't get that I liked your short stories but not your novels, please read through letter again and ruminate deeper.P.P.S You can write anything that you want.
Even long novels.
I'm just cranky at how disappointed I am with your novels after reading through the creativity and finesse of your anthologies.P.P.P.S You are 
Thank goodness Jeffrey Archer got a Baronetcy in 1992.
There's something deeply comforting about an Archer story.
Lord Jeffrey makes sure to introduce you to people from all the right social circles, dah-ling.The writing style is clean, masculine and unapologetic.
Archer employs a unique image, usually a simile repeated for emphasis, as a hook that pulls you into each story.
Never mind what those macho Brazilian men are up to.If you're a fan of Ocean's Eleven, or any story populated by scoundrels, thieves, gamblers and tricksters, Lord Jeffrey will delight you.
This is the first book, written by him that I have read and I seriously loved it.
Each story has a strange twist that makes it different and more unique when compared to the others in the same book.
Except one, (he doesn't mention which one) all the tales in his book are based on true life incidents, which make them even more delicious to read.
For those who want make a simple beginning, a small book but with some very memorable anecdotes, its the perfect choice.:)Read it yourself and be surprised.
I loved the book. It is a collection of twelve short fabulous stories. I liked most 'The Coup' and 'Old Love'. Both are like mini novels. I would love both of them as full fledged novels. The author is surely a seasoned short story writer.
A reviewer here said Archer's short stories are like chick-lit for guys; that gave me a good chuckle because the description is spot on. Stories here are hits and misses, all set in the good old fashion of bygone era with a touch of misogyny. Nothing serious and overly emotional, just some inconsequential, decently written light reading.
Its a wonderful collection of short stories that captures your imagination and makes you ponder over the little nuances! The broken routine an old love were my personal favourites! Must read if you love short stories!
Rather dull, and evidence that without his political connections, Jeffrey Archer would be about as interesting as a student in a beginners' fiction-writing workshop. Every story features some feeble attempt at irony that makes it seem amateurish, like the yawner about two middle-aged men who bet about which will be first to bed a beautiful girl, only to find out she'd been taking bets on them. (Oh, SNAP!) Save your money.
Lazy review: I'm giving this 4 stars because it started with some boring stories but ended so excellently (I found myself smiling alone upon reaching the last page). This is a book that I borrowed from the library and I swear I want to rip off the pages of The Hungarian Professor and Old Love and keep them in my own collection because I enjoyed those stories so much. I'm still feeling that weird bittersweet feeling as I'm typing this.
I don't usually read short stories but someone gave me this ages ago and I needed something to read while waiting for my dog to be groomed so thought I'd give it a go. I really enjoyed it. The stories were varied and some better than others - Broken Routine was my favourite but I would recommend it. I am going to try some more short story collections (just ordered Bazaar Of Bad Dreams by Stephen King) and maybe a Jeffrey Archer novel too.
Eleven short stories with a twist at the end to hammer it home. These are fun, and the humor is rather English, so it's pretty damn delightful. As for writing style, it's clipped without lacking, and each story feels like something you might hear told over a whisky in a club with deep leather chairs.I laughed out loud on more than one occasion. And that's saying something.I think "Old Love" might have been my favorite.A good introduction to Jeffrey Archer. I'll be picking more of his work up in the future.
Just love anything by Jeffrey Archer. These are wonderful reading - varied in many ways, but usually have a little surprise or twist at the end.
This is a compilation of twelve short stories by Jeffrey Archer, first published 1980: The Chinese Statute; The Luncheon; The Coup; The First Miracle; The Perfect Gentleman; One-Night Stand; The Century; Broken Routine; Henry's Hiccup; A Matter of Principle; The Hungarian Professor; and Old Love.While I enjoyed one or two of the stories, I felt that there was a weakness in the story punch lines.
Now Broken Routine was a bit boring for the first pages while Jeffrey Archer drums it into his readers' heads how Septimus Horatio runs his life but it gets mighty interesting on the train and I promise you I never saw the ending coming and I burst out laughing.
So here I go again reviewing his very first collection of short stories that take the readers from London to China to New York to Nigeria filling them with tales of ancient world mixed with modern romance, making fortunes and betrayals at every bend.The first story titled "The Chinese Statue" revolves around a statuette from the Ming Dynasty that had now come to auction., although it was originally purchased by one Sir Alexander Heathcote who was serving for Queen Victoria as a Minister in Peking at that time.
This book is diffrent from his novels as most of these books revolve around two or more individuals who are highly ambitious and strong-willed.
Each of these strong characters is shown to be determined to defeat the another to gain power and fortune.
As the name rightly suggests, Jeffrey Archer has impressively put together twelve assorted arrows (short stories) into the quiver (book).
Each of these arrows is sharp and leaves a meaningful impact on the readers.All the stories bring out certain element of human nature!
The Chinese Statue is the story that features a Sir Alexander, a British Diplomat who has a priceless statue of Emperor Kung.
Well, here was a total change of pace as our book discussion group delved into a collection of short stories! what a great choice this particular collection proved to be. Archer writes in a style that quickly captures the reader's attention and manages to slip in a twist, or surprise ending, or clever coincidence. I loved all of the stories in this book, although if I had to pick a favorite it would have to be Broken Routine - the twist is delicious! I will definitely be reading more of Mr. Archer's works.
I read this during my Geoffrey Archer phase... and the only thing that has stuck with me is the story 'The first miracle'. It's about a very young Pontius Pilate meeting up with Mary and Joseph on their voyage to Bethlehem. Those who know me, know I'm spectacularly religious/Christian - but this story has just stuck with me. It is so heartbreaking in its simplicity and message. It was published as a separate story years ago, as a fundraiser.
A Quiver full of ArrowsI liked all the stories esp 'Old love' (they r each otherz strength n courage) & 'The perfect gentleman' (ppl like Edward r few in the entire world).They r al very well-written & interesting. What i esp loved was that none had a weird or a very predictabl ending.And ofcourse i wud recommended it 2 all.
the book always surprises you subtly... has substance... sometimes playful... cleverly written... author drives you to something and you know that you are being directed... you want to move cautiously ahead... but alas he is far ahead of you and comprehends your anxiety much before it arises in you...
I wouldn't usually pick anything by Archer – but some (not all) of the stories here were immensely satisfying to read. However, considering I was 17 at the time (when I read them) I'm not sure of my 30 year old mind would appreciate the, now. However, if you want something short and captivating than this is quite a good collection (however, please remember I was a kid when I read it!).
I simply loved this collection of short stories. Favorites being The Century, Broken Routine, The Perfect Gentleman, The Luncheon and The First Miracle. It's not only the style and rhythm in writing but also the unexpected twists and ends in the stories that make them so compelling to read.No wonder Jeffery Archer is called the 'Master Storyteller'.
A very mixed bag here! While I particularly enjoyed the ending to "Broken Routine, the rest of the tales were just so-so & as to "The Coup" & "The Century"....well, I just didn't get them!
Tricky to review this, all the stories start well and have good middle sections, but most of them have rather lacklustre endings, I gave it a 4 purely because the stories are all very engrossing and well written up till the final paragraph.
The ending of 'Old Love' made me cry my eyes out.
Jeffrey Archer's storytelling at it's best.
Cheap twists on tired tales, more often lemon than (sub)lime. In other words? Don't waste your time.
Loved 'Don't Stop On The Motorway'
This one comes with the stamp of brand Jeffrey Archer. The sense of thrill and romanceon stories is still there
A book of 12 short stories by Jeffrey Archer.I am not a big fan of short stories but they are very well written.
All the stories were delectable :-)
A couple of great stories mixed with some mediocre stories
