https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18053060-dorothy-must-die
Welcome to Oz. Take a look at the Yellow Brick Road. Like it? Good. Now run away, run faaaaaaaaaaar away. Pray for a tornado to take you back to Kansas, because man, Oz is fucked up as shit. “Oz has changed,” Gert said. “The trees don’t talk. The Pond of Truth tells lies, the Wandering Water stays put. The Land of Naught is on fire. People are starting to get old. People are forgetting how it used to be.” But let's get back to the beginning, what the fuck happened?! How did Oz get to...this?The
After some mysterious parting words, the boy disappears, leaving poor Amy wondering what the actual fuck just happened?
Should Amy make like Dorothy and follow Der Yellow Brick Road?
I mean, think about it, you can either follow the ONE BRIGHT THING in this dilapidated world, or you can go wandering off to fuck-knows-where in the dark scary totally creepy mysterious forest with man-eating corn stalks.
Dorothy got more cray-cray over the years, and now she's imprisoning people, making poor munchkins work, enslaving flying monkeys, forcing everyone to wear Perma-Smiles like :DDDDDDDDDDD!!1!!1 every fucking day.
"I realized, looking around for the first time, that we weren’t in Dusty Acres anymore." Disappointment #1: This book was extremely boring for about 80% of the 432 pages. I was tempted to call it slow at first because it certainly felt like it, but I guess stuff was constantly happening - I just didn't care about any of it. Occasionally I would perk up because I read an interesting page and then I would go back to forcing myself to absorb the words properly. It was a lengthy and difficult slog,
The story is about Amy Gumm who has grown up in a trailer park with a mother who is slipping further into a drug-induced oblivion.
She has been called "trash" her whole life by other kids at school and the teachers never believe her side of the story because they know all too well who her mother is.Amy is exactly the kind of character I enjoy reading about.
I lost all connection with Amy and her story when she landed in Oz and began moving from one group of people I didn't care about to another.
Dorothy proves the saying that power corrupts and begins slowly terrorizing the land and people.
I won't be reading this. Not because of the author, but because of this: http://bibliodaze.com/2014/04/say-no-...
4.5 stars Well, color me surprised--this was excellent!
Such a great reimagining of a skewed Oz, with interesting characters, awesome and imaginative use of magic, lots of humor and gore, and genuine emotion.
And it's just plain fun.
Abrupt ending, and a couple of other little quibbles, but it's really exciting to have a debut author burst into the scene with such a confident, smart debut.
Easily followed if you aren't so familiar with the original books or films, but also so many layers to appreciate if you are.
Full review on the blog: http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2014...Plus look at the awesome ARC packaging for this book!
So, Dorothy must die, huh? Well, perhaps. But if this book is any indication, the cause of this cardiopulmonary arrest would be little else but frustrated boredom.How do you make the flip-one-of-the-most-known-and-beloved-stories-onto-its-head book uninteresting? Good question. Let me give you some pointers:--  1) Make the beginning relatively strong, to draw the readers in and to remind them as the story drags along that this story had potential  , that it could have had a strong narrative voic
For instance, take up a huge chunk of the book with drawn-out scenes of training that do not lead anywhere, and allow the reader to feel firsthand the monotony of a job of a poorly informed spy by detailing every little bit of the castle cleaning she needs to do while waiting for the plot to leisurely catch up with her.
5) Heavily rely on readers' familiarity with the Oz characters thanks to the books and the film, and therefore put minimal effort into developing most of them for the purposes of your story.
The CW is developing this book and it's time to get excited!!!
Not only does this book sound awesome but it's going to (maybe-potentially) be on TV!
And I just really want to see Dorothy die.
One of the most brutal and violent YA books I've ever read, which just makes it that much more epic since it's set in Oz. And Danielle Paige knows her L.
I've read probably 10+ books about Oz and I was so impressed how she wove his world into hers, making it unique but still stayed true to the original.
Definite 5 Star read.
There's no place like home! Enter to win a Dorothy Must Die prize pack!
There's a lot of unnecessary girl hate at the start, but then a tornado comes and drops Amy off in a dystopian version of Oz. Princess Dorothy and Glinda are no longer good and are carrying out a frilly pink Happiness Decree of tyrannical oppression.
or else they're sent in for an Attitude Adjustment.There were a lot of other neat ideas, like how the Lion eats fear, the flying monkeys cut off their magical wings to be free, and how magic "always wants to be something different from what it already is."  The worldbuilding and twists on the familiar Oz stories were fun, too.
I give it 4-4.5 starsDanielle Paige’s version of Oz is a version where Dorothy went back home, realised she didn’t particularly care for it, came back to Oz, gathered magic, and became the most barbaric ruler in the history of Oz. In this version Dorothy isn’t the only girl who went to Oz there is now another and she has seen that the Dorothy she thought she heard about let the magic get to her head and wants nothing more than to be the sole bearer of the magic residing in Oz. Amy has realised that the words ‘Wicked’ and ‘Good’ no longer mean anything in this fight to save Oz, and she will stop at nothing to kill Dorothy.
In some cases I was forgiving of the narrative because it seemed like it was trying to set up details about what happened with Oz, but when I realized Amy wasn't accomplishing a whole heck of a lot and that the characters would appear only to disappear for long stretches at a time (i.e. her pet rat Star and the boy entrusted to keep her safe, Pete), I became concerned.
I initially felt for Amy because of her respective problems and even something of a snarky voice, but by the time I got to Oz, I just felt like the character motivation was dropped several notches on the building ladder.
when we talk about Oz I'm sure you would be thinking like this Oz But this book is very different from that Oz. This Oz is very dark and corrupted and I liked this book, the story was good and I liked the writing style too.the first day I read this book I was so excited and the pacing was pretty fast but it all changed when I reached chapter 30.
while reading it I felt like this book was just focused on the how to kill dorothy and forgot to describe about the friendship.
Bien escrita, con unos personajes profundizados, Dorothy debe morir ha sabido hacerme replantear ciertos detalles de la novela a la que hace homenaje y me ha mantenido con ganas de saber más hasta el final.Como digo, estamos ante un buen retelling o supuesta continuación homenaje a El mago de Oz. Sinceramente, El mago de Oz fue uno de los libros de mi infancia y le tengo muchísimo cariño.
Por eso mismo tenía cierto miedo de leer esta novela que, finalmente, me ha sorprendido y ha superado mis expectativas.Como mínimo tengo que decir que Dorothy debe morir es una novela original, que se sale de lo que se espera del mundo de Oz y que sabe reinventar la historia de este gran clásico.
Oh gosh, where shall I start?This book…was really something; an amazing thing.★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ 4 ''It made my day'' starsTo be honest, I never absolutely was a big fan of Dorothy’s story in The Wizard of Oz, which means I was a little reluctant to buy this one.
Then we learn how her mom has drinking problems and I started to actually sympathize with Amy. Just imagining how her constant life must be like made my heart sink.This wasn’t a happy story, but it wasn’t either one filled with only horror and tragedy.The writing…Can I just say WOW a thousand times?
I like weird! And this had some awesomely weird stuff! The Oz world was pretty cool with some very dark aspects, yet some good humor was blended in along with it. There was a twist at the end that I would not have guessed, if I hadn't read the prequels first! I liked Amy, and she felt like an actual teen, not a forty year old in a teen's body. I'm ready for the next book! Full review on my blog https://literarydust.wordpress.com/20...
Here's an actual review by my blog partner, who was able to force herself to finish this, and not a moment too soon because I've been putting it off all day and I just can't.
There can be no confusion here, it's all Nox this, and Nox that, and it's so painfully forced that I never once felt anything beyond annoyance (and I know she mentions their connection at some point, but I didn't write it down and I'm too lazy to find it right now, but it's there).
Realmente un muy buen inicio :) Una imagen muy diferente del Mago de Oz, en la cual no sabes en quién confiar y que hará que odies a Dorothy.
So basically I procrastinated reading this book FOREVER (because I'm a deluded pineapple) and gosh, it was amazing and perfect and I loved it..
Let's move on, shall we?!Basically the book is about a girl, Amy Gumm, who gets sucked into a tornado and tossed into Oz...after Dorothy.
And everyone goes around with these botox like smiles.Mostly the amount of fluffiness and pink in Dorothy's life, as she ordered people's deaths and what not, was what disturbed me.I love me a good retelling...and this is definitely a good one.
(Although, to be honest, I think everyone was kind of bad?)Amy Gumm is also fantastic.
I think I'll probably be borrowing this from the library, since I don't want to give Full Fathom Five any of my money.
Lots of twisted and backwards adventure to be found here!Amy Gunn is your average girl who has been dealt a bad hadn at life.
And many other twists await!Let me give warning: DO NOT get attached to characters.
So Amy has to train and learn to fight, control magic all while wondering what is going on and why.Danielle Paige has done a great job with character creation.
Nox, Glamora, and other fantastic new characters are in this book.
When I got this book I was not expecting a long series.
SOMEONE'S MESSING WITH HIS STORY.WHAT WOULD MR. BAUM SAY ABOUT IT?Well, I DON'T CARE. Because I LOVE this book SO MUCH!!! No joking! Even Dorothy will be dumbfounded that I'm against her now. Yes! That's how great the story is. How the author made me believe that Dorothy was no longer Dorothy I used to know. She's an EVIL now. A magic-hoarding fascist. Even her friends and Glinda had all changed. Screw them! “Down is up, up is down. Good is Wicked, Wicked is Good. The times are changing. This is
That's how great the story is.
The times are changing.
Besides Amy Gumm and Star the rat, I found some new characters here and it made the story even more interesting.
As Amy had been warned many times, I didn't know who to trust except Amy herself and her pet rat, Star.
I just love Amy. Even though she could be careless sometimes, that she put other's life in danger, but she is caring and of course she is lovable.
While Dementor in Harry Potter sucks out happiness of others to live, why would the Lion eats the fear of others and it makes him survive and stronger?
Well, I had wanted to be gone. I’d wanted it for as long as I’d known there was anywhere to go. I wanted other places, other people. Another me. I wanted to leave everything and everyone behind. But not like this. We’re off to see the Wizard, the wonderful Wizard of Oz….Is he, though? Is he really wonderful? And what about the rest of our beloved WOZ cast? Who’s good, who’s evil….and how do you interpret that little gray area in between? I loved this story and all the mayhem it represented. I l
But here I was, just scrolling through my feed a couple days ago, wondering what in the world I was going to read to break up my current series at the time (for some reason I’ve loved breaking my series up, lately-it’s been helping to keep me more excited/focused?
This time, it didn’t come back down.What followed, naturally, was your typical Chelsea reaction to a wonderful and addicting book: Excessive smiling, giggling, hiding to find more reading time, general fangirling about my beloved Nox...the works.
It was just a matter of fact when a girl didn’t like Amy or vice versa-no unnecessary bad mouthing-I know a couple girlies who don’t like that…).
It's pretty obvious why this one was a must-read for me, right? A Wizard of Oz retelling where Dorothy is evil... I had to read it. No questions asked. And then I finished it... and was utterly disappointed. Remember my review of Hexed? I kind of felt that the writing in both books were similar, so if you enjoyed one you'll maybe enjoy the other.So the story's told from Amy Gumm's perspective. Ah, Amy. The first word that comes to mind when I think of her is shallow. She can't listen to any sor
I kind of felt that the writing in both books were similar, so if you enjoyed one you'll maybe enjoy the other.So the story's told from Amy Gumm's perspective.
She only cares that the guy she likes is tending to said dying girl.Character development?
Although there were the right amount of descriptions, I couldn't get a grasp of how Oz felt like.
I didn't get the sense of a magical world with rich characters--rather, I felt like I was reading about a dry desert with a girl who lived alone.
Deranged bitch is more like it, right?Wondering about the romance?
A dark retelling of The Wizard of Oz, an evil Dorothy and an assassination mission.
My expectations were sky-high and Dorothy Must Die delivered.Its world-building is on par with the likes of Splintered, a dark Alice in Wonderland retelling.
Amy Gumm is just a normal girl living in Kansas, until one day, a tornado plops her in Oz. She's soon recruited by the Order of the Wicked to kill the tyrannical Dorothy and get Oz back to the way it was.What I love about Amy is that she's tough, but holds the ability to be compassionate at the same time.
That's it.Also, I love the whole Good and Evil segregation.
The rating would have been 2 stars higher if it had been a stand-alone with a proper conclusion instead of a rushed cliff-hanger and a confused protagonist.I don't feel like writing a proper review.
Let's settle on why I did not rate it with 3 stars like I had expected around the first half of the book.
I was annoyed around the second half of the book.
There was Amy struggling with Oz and its inhabitants and pages and pages of pointless, meaningless dialogue, but nothing else happened.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 Stars  “Those who have sacrificed always have the most to lose”. Amy Gumm has a pretty crappy life. She lives in a trailer park in BFE, Kansas, is being raised by a mother who is hooked on pills, and spends her days at school being bullied by a pregnant cheerleader. There’s not much to look forward to when she wakes up each morning. Amy finds herself in a whole new world – literally – when her single-wide is swept up in a tornado (
It’s up to Amy to determine who to trust (if anyone) and just how far she will go in order to save the land of Oz. Along the way she’ll cross paths with some familiar characters
I really should be nice and give it a full 4 Stars, but I’m letting my inner-wicked-witch-flag-fly and bumping it down for two reasons: (1) I HATE books in a series and this one is so completely open-ended that I’m pretty much forced to read book #2; and (2) at some point authors have to realize that if they create a fabulous world filled with fantastic characters, they don’t need to muddy the waters worrying about who is going to be playing smoochy-face with whom by the end of the series.
Im rating this book 4.5 stars.
And she started to suck all the magic out of the land - because she was hungry and greedy and wanted more than what she already had.And so, good is wicked, and wicked is good, and yet when Amy joins forces with the witches of evil (or good?) she must learn to harness magic and destroy Dorothy once and for all.But of course, all is not what it seems, and of course, you never know who to trust.Speaking in terms of plot, this was such a wild ride.
This turned out to be super fun! I found the middle a bit, I dunno, boring? It was fast paced enough but just didn't hold my attention, but the second half of the book was awesome! Full review to come
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI grew up with the Oz books. As a child, I would revisit them periodically, curling up under the covers with a flashlight to read about Tik-Tok and the Wheelers, or Polychrome and the Nome King, or Mombi and Jack. Even now, I still occasionally read them because they're so fantastically creative and the imaginative world-building continues to hold up, even now. It's one of my favorite fantasy series ever, probably more so than Harry Potter.
That's why I was skeptical when I saw that there was a series coming out that was a dark retelling of the Oz books.DOROTHY MUST DIE is about a girl named Amy, who lives in a trailer park in Kansas.
One day, she ends up being stuck in the middle of a tornado and, like Dorothy, finds herself magically transported to a world that clearly isn't Kansas anymore.
Paige also portrays just how seductive power can be, even when it is evil, because in Dorothy's palace, things are beautiful, and it's all too easy to succumb to temptation.Amy is one of those heroines I think people will love or hate.
