https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44687.Enchanters_End_Game
For me, this was the most enjoyable book of the whole Belgariad series, and that despite all of the “happily-ever-afters” that occur by book’s end.
And even Hettar, the implacable horse-lord, finds a mate and mellows a bit, although it takes an altercation for that to happen (it kind of reminded me of Zane Grey’s The Last Trail, where Lou Wetzel meets his match).Garion naturally approaches his prophesied mission with trepidation—how does a mere mortal battle a god like Torak?
Life is short and the number of books I want to read is huge, so I don’t know that I will pursue any more of Eddings’ writing, but I did enjoy this series.
Book 192 of my Science Fiction & Fantasy Reading Project.
It's quick and fun and enjoyable, and has no pretenses to being anything but a good story.But. It is also witty and bright, and for a book series geared towards adolescents, does not simplify its writing style for them either in word choice or in some of the subjects that it deals with.
For at least these four series, Eddings seems endlessly inventive and comes up with good jokes to last out nearly twenty books.
However, The Elenium and Tamuli are a little more mature, and the characters are better, and those are both four star worthy series.
Ce'Nedra's a fairly obvious viewpoint character, since she's the most important of them whose storyline doesn't follow the same physical path as Garion's, and the kings' activities can be related through her gaze, since she's with them.
The queens, however, are entirely out of either Garion or Ce'Nedra's line of sight, and they're doing important things, so bringing them in as viewpoint characters makes sense.Two, it means that Eddings presented a totally different series of points of view in the final book, which is, like, Not Allowed.
All five reviewed.This is a grand story that rattles along at a good pace.I liked: Garion and most of his chums. The story. The writing.I didn't like: Polgara. How sweet tempered Garion is.But all in all I'd say read this quintet it's worth your time.
(view spoiler)[In the eleventh hour, she's ruined by the love of a 'good man.' One of Eddings god characters plainly states that unbalanced relationships do not work as the terms of the happy ending hat trick are being hammered out.
So, Lady Polgara freely gives up her not insubstantial power for the life and love of a good man, who incidentally died a heroes death jumping on the Big Bad for the honor of 'his' woman.
Funny, before this scene Polgara acted like this good man's love of her was sweet, but misguided.
I devoured this & the previous book in a day.
I'm trying to baby a bad back & this was a perfect excuse to do so.
It was a good ending to a fun series - sort of.
The Mallorean, another 5 book series, picks up where this leaves off & isn't quite as good.
The flaws in this series & Eddings' writing become more apparent.
Eddings repeats this when he writes the Elenium trilogy & then follows it with the Tamuli.
The first is great fun, the second more of the same, not done quite as well.Anyway, this was a fun little series to revisit.

I hadn't intended on giving this 5 stars, but seriously, the ending was pretty cool. It was so Harry Potter-esque that I couldn't help but think Rowling must have read the series before she wrote hers. I just didn't see the battle between Torak and Garion going the way it did, and it impressed me. Plus, I was glad it tied up all the loose ends. Looking forward to reading The Mallorean series, which is an extension off this I guess. This series played it safe a bit, but nice wrap up.
3.5 stars. Fairly satisfying ending the Belgariad. Overall, this was an above average epic fantasy series geared more towards the YA audience but still enjoyable for adults. One final note: I listened to the audiobook narrated by Cameron Beierle and he did an excellent job with the series.
I'd write a review but I'm so grateful to have finished this book and never have to read anything in the series again that I'm just going to run away. I'M FREE! FREE I TELL YOU!
The two competing prophecies finally come to their point of divergence as the kingdoms of the west battle the assembled forces of the evil god Torak, while the young wizard Garion will determine the very existence of the world as he ventures further east.
It is a satisfying enough story, but it is hard to shake how derivative the whole thing feels.As with past outings in the series, End Game is written in a competent fashion that keeps the action moving forward and makes the book a fairly swift read.
Meh. I like many of the characters, but they do the same things in the same way for 5 books and it just wore on me.
I didn't understand Errand's role in this book at all, or what he or Ce'Nedra had to do with the prophecy and why they had to be at the climax.
I commented more in depth in the last book how I dislike that race completely determines personality and intelligence.
But despite Garion and Ce'Nedra, I think the themes and characterization seem geared toward adults, as well as the length and boringness.
I think Lord of the Rings mostly holds up still today.
I also liked the fact that every nation in the land has stereotypes about other nations and their peoples, which were often waylaid when people actually took the effort to have more than superficial contact, like trading, with someone from another country.The only thing I didn't like about these novels, is the fact that all the problems or unfriendly encounters/fights were resolved far to quickly.
Granted, every character in the company uses his or her talent to solve certain problems, but there would have been more suspense, and it would have felt more like real-world problems, if they hadn't been resolved so quickly or easily.
Overall though, the series was very entertaining and I really loved the characters, the world, and the story.
I quite enjoyed this series, and the wide array of characters that were woven together to make the whole adventure work.
I think the Belgariad series is one of the best fantasy stories about a boy's coming of age.
I will miss them, though, luckily, in a few years I will have forgotten enough of it that I'll be able to read it again and enjoy Garion's journey from naive farm-boy to well-traveled sorcerer with great responsibilities.
Unlike other fantasy heroes, like, for example, Rand al'Thor (who I also love), Garion is a bit more easy for me to respect because he's less whiny about what he was born to do.
One thing I really love about the series overall is that Garion learns through trial and error.
Eso no quita de que todos los personajes crezcan de una forma o de otra, el viaje del héroe los cambia a todos, y siempre para bien.
En otro orden de cosas, la trama, y vista desde mi falta de títulos de fantasía épica, esta muy bien hilada, y para mi es novedoso como complica la existencia de una profecía (este detalle es spoiler, así que no me adentraré más en él.
Pero en su conjunto, es una saga de libros que acaban bien en todos sus extremos.
Μια ακόμα από τις σειρές που θεωρούνται must read στο χώρο της υψηλής φαντασίας και διαβάζοντας το κατάλαβα το γιατί.
Από τις πρώτες σελίδες καταλαβαίνεις ότι είναι μια εξαιρετική σειρά με την κλασική συνταγή που υπερτονίζει τη φιλία, την αυτοθυσία και τη “μαγική” πλευρά του έρωτα, με φόντο τη μάχη απέναντι στο απόλυτο κακό.
Όλα αυτά αποδίδονται με έναν πολύ καλό τρόπο και σε συνδυασμό με τον μοναδικό φανταστικό κόσμο, τους πολύπλοκους χαρακτήρες και το χιούμορ που διαποτίζει το έργο χωρίς να το ευτελίζει δημιουργείται ένα εξαιρετικό αποτέλεσμα που κρατάει το ενδιαφέρον ως το τέλος.
Παρ'όλα αυτά νιώθω ὀτι η σειρά δεν έχει τη βαρύτητα που χρειάζεται για να βάλω το πεντάρι, σίγουρα, όμως, αξίζει την προσοχή μας.
Личи си старата школа. Превъзходен разказвач.
5 books and enjoyed them all. Can't ask for more. Many times I will lose interest over time.
Although I believe it could have been 100 pages shorter, David Eddings ties everything together so well. That ending is so satisfying and properly wraps up this extended journey of the Belgaraid.
It's a rare novel indeed which offers a man the opportunity to surrender his power for the sake of a woman!
I realize that this is an unfair comparison to lay on a light fantasy novel, but it is the first one that sprang to mind and I can't seem to think of a better.
Overall I would say that this series was entertaining and I don't really mind that my OCD demands that I read the sequel Malloreon.
It is very easy to get inside Garion's head and ride along with him through his series of adventures and to empathize with his feelings of ill-preparedness as the events escalate and he is caught in the flood of things beyond his control.I think this story and the other two on my short mental list appeal so much because they spend so much time developing the characters to the point that they feel very much like old friends.
They also allow a certain vicarious enjoyment of the adventures while at the same time reminding me how much I like my ordinary obscure life.
It's too bad I didn't read this series as a child, for I might have liked it then.
Reading it as an adult just didn't work for me, though I really wanted to like it.
I liked some of the characters, and the overall storytelling; but had too many issues throughout.
After a while, it was just too much.One of the primary plots of this book was a standard journey.
A long journey.
(view spoiler)[The two of them were sorcerers who could, and did, change to animal shapes on the journey.
The whole plot felt like a waste of time to me.
Garion is now the King of Riva, but he knows there will be no peace as long as Torak lives.
With Garion getting close to Torak, he knows he will have to fight him, but how can he possibly win against a God. With the two prophecies converging, which side will win?Enchanters’ End Game is the final book in the Belgariad and it wraps up everything from the previous books.
And so ends the tale of The Belgariad, a series that I have been wanting to read since I was in my late teens.Garion, with the help of his friends, has saved the Orb of Aldur and their quest is over.
(I really hope it doesn't, but this is the end of this series and whatever Garion and his friends get up to from now on, I hope his next adventure is as fantastic as this one.
Neither does Ce'Nedra.)In Garion's final act to fulfill the Prophecy, he has to battle with the evil God Torak.
I consumed the two five-book series in a few months, getting in trouble in school for reading when I should have been paying attention (I either didn't care or had already done the homework for whatever it was they were teaching while they were teaching how to do it).When complete, I read the whole series again in half the time.
Completes most of the story lines from the previous books. Does leave some open questions which are resolved in the Mallorean series. This series is epic fantasy with a somewhat more gentle feel than the Wheel of Time series by Jordan. This Author takes the time to detail some of the cultures of the 10 or more kingdoms involved in the back story. The male and female characters are all likeable with the occasional scoundrel thrown in for good measure. A pleasure to re-read.
Excellent ending to this series! Everything came together in a satisfying yet kind of bittersweet way. I would have been sadder about it ending if I didn't have the Malloreon series sitting on my nightstand right now. I can't wait to continue the adventure, especially now that the characters have matured.
Belki 5 yıl önce okusaydım farklı bir yorum yapabilirdim ama son zamanlarda okuduğum fantastik serilerin ve/veya son dönemde çıkan yeni fantastik serilerin yanında çok ama çok zayıf kalıyor. Vasatın altında bir kitap diyebilirim.
