https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/199786.Ninth_Key
3.5 entertaining stars.
I like a sense of story progression from sequel to sequel when I embark into a series.
I did not however detect that feeling when reading the second book in The Mediator series.
Suze didn’t gain new abilities, she still made reckless moves (trusting one’s instinct is important, but there’s a limit not to cross), her relationships with secondary characters from the first volume didn’t change – or barely so – and the ending to the new ‘‘case’’ left me pretty darn confused and slightly frustrated.
Yeah.BUT, it was an unexpected twist.AND, just like any other Meg Cabot book, this one was fun, well-written, atmospheric and engrossing!
"You can't tell me you've liked being trapped in this room for a hundred and fifty years.""It hasn't been all bad," he said, with a smile. "Things have picked up recently."  Okayyyy sooooo I wasn't gong to write a review today, but it's going to be a long weekend (WOOT! Bring it on 4th of July!) and I know I will finish at LEAST one book and will need to post about it Tuesday-So I'd rather not get backlogged. Plus-Any chance I get to boast about my Jesse and Suze addiction to get people aware
Plus-Any chance I get to boast about my Jesse and Suze addiction to get people aware of it again, I'm going to do it.This is a series, I'm finding, that not only I liked, but many many of my friends did, too.
I wasn't the only pre-teen laying in my bedroom binge-reading this series and pining about Jesse like I thought I was....no wonder she is so popular.
So, with that being said, I think I'm going to leave the review here and wish everyone a happy holiday weekend.
3.5 starsProbably the weakest in the series but I had so much fun reading it nevertheless! I really like Meg's writing and she has a special place in my heart. She can write hilarious scenes but sad & relatable ones as well. But she does it in her own special way which I love. I feel like she captures Suze's development as a person (and mediator) fantastically. Oh, and Jesse is cutie as always.
Rereading this series makes me very nostalgic. I'm not sure if a new reader would enjoy these books, but I'm having a great time reliving my high school reading days. I also love Suze and I'm glad I read about characters like her as a teenager.
Mini review:I have been a fan of Meg Cabot since I was in high school.
When I saw that this series was in my library I read the first book.
And man was it fun!
Curious about the second book I put it on hold.
I was hoping that Meg would train a bit more with Father Dom but that didn't happen.
Jesse is still a mystery in this book.There are some things that are revealed.
And as usual Suze was fun to read about!
I enjoyed reading about her family.
The ghost stuff was fun as well.
Cozy, cozy read.
(view spoiler)[Yes, but not the last book (hide spoiler)]Love triangle?
(view spoiler)[A love triangle of a sorts, but very low-key and minimal drama.
(hide spoiler)]Tears-worthy?
(view spoiler)[Emotional scene at the end with brother, but other than that, not tears-worthy (hide spoiler)]Humor?
(view spoiler)[Yes.
(hide spoiler)]Favorite scenes?
(view spoiler)[That ending with Doc and the mother and him hugging Suze and crying.
(hide spoiler)]What age level would be appropriate?
(view spoiler)[Vague mentions of sex, but not actual sex scene.
Also, cheers to having a peaceful Sunday all to myself to read this ✨✨✨
Just as much fun as the first one, though the plot was weaker. Liked both Suze, Jesse and also Doc. I don't have mich to say about these books. They're certainly compulsively readable, you could easily read each book in one day. Suze is the right mix of sassy, kick ass and likeable. Jesse is swoonworthy. And there's great cast of secondary characters. The paranormal aspect (if I can even call it world building) is really weak, but at the same time this book never pretends to be something it's not. It's light and fun read.
Re-read 4/25/17: If I recall correctly, I think this one is my least favorite of the series, but it was still SO GOOD. Like I said before, I don't think I would recommend this series to someone who doesn't already have the nostalgia factor, but I definitely do recommend a re-read if you haven't ever done so. Sooooo much fun
อานไปสองเลมเริมรูสึกวานางเอกทำอะไรผลีผลามไปนิด สวนเรืองของเจสซีกแทบจะไมไดเปิดเผยอะไรมากไปกวาเลมทีแลวเลย สงสัยวาจะเคลียรกเลมทายๆแหละมัง เลมนีจะไมไดเนนหนักไปทางตอสูกับผีหรือบทบาทของเมดิเอเตอรเหมือนกับเลมทีแลว แตมีการแทรกพารทสืบสวนมา ซึงนีแหละทีทำใหเรามองกวาซูซทำอะไรโงๆลงไปเยอะมาก แตนันกเปนตัวทีทำใหเนือเรืองไหลไปขางหนา เพียงวา...มีอะไรอยางนีบอยๆครัง มันเหมือนกับการกินนำพริกถวยเดิม มุกเดิมๆทีเคยขำ เคยคิดวามันตลก พอมาเจออีกทีในเลมนี มันชักจะไมตลกแลวสิ จากไมตลกจึงกลายเปน 'แปก' ไปตังแตเมือไรกไมรู ...ตอ
อ่านไปสองเล่มเริ่มรู้สึกว่านางเอกทำอะไรผลีผลามไปนิด ส่วนเรื่องของเจสซี่ก็แทบจะไม่ได้เปิดเผยอะไรมากไปกว่าเล่มที่แล้วเลย สงสัยว่าจะเคลียร์ก็เล่มท้ายๆแหละมั้ง เล่มนี้จะไม่ได้เน้นหนักไปทางต่อสู้กับผีหรือบทบาทของเมดิเอเตอร์เหมือนกับเล่มที่แล้ว แต่มีการแทรกพาร์ทสืบสวนมา ซึ่งนี่แหละที่ทำให้เรามองกว่าซูซทำอะไรโง่ๆลงไปเยอะมาก แต่นั่นก็เป็นตัวที่ทำให้เนื้อเรื่องไหลไปข้างหน้า เพียงว่า...มีอะไรอย่างนี้บ่อยๆครั้ง มันเหมือนกับการกินน้ำพริกถ้วยเดิม มุกเดิมๆที่เคยขำ เคยคิดว่ามันตลก พอมาเจออีกทีในเล่มนี้ มันชักจะไม่ตลกแล้วสิ จากไม่ตลกจึงกลายเป็น 'แป๊ก' ไปตั้งแต่เมื่อไรก็ไม่รู้ ...ตอนแรกมองว่าซูซเป็นเด็กสาวที่โก๊ะๆเปิ่นๆ ซุ่มซ่าม ทำอะไรให้มันดูน่ารักน่าหยิก พอหลังๆนี่เหมือนจะตั้งใจ บอกเลยว่าไม่ขำแล้วนะ เปลี่ยนมุกเหอะ หวังว่าเล่มต่อไปจะงัดอะไรเด็ดๆมาทำให้เราอยากอ่านซีรีย์ชุดนี้ต่อไปได้นะ ...(view spoiler)[ครั้งนี้ซูซานน่าห์ได้รับการไหว้วานจากผีสาว ให้ไปช่วยบอกผู้ชายคนนึงว่าเขาไม่มีส่วนเกี่ยวข้องในการตายของเธอ แต่ที่ไหนได้...ผู้ชายคนนั้นคือพ่อของว่าที่แฟนหนุ่ม เอ๊ย ! เพื่อนใหม่ของเธออย่างแทด ซูซานน่าห์ตกใจแทบช็อคหงายเมื่อพบว่าพ่อของแทดอาจจะเป็นแวมไพร์ที่ดูดเลือดมนุษย์ ยิ่งเธอเอาไปเชื่อมโยงกับคดีที่มีคนหายตัวไปช่วงหลังๆด้วยแล้ว งานนี้ซูซานน่าห์แทบเอาตัวไม่รอดเมื่อคดีที่เธอสืบอยู่พลิกตลบ คนที่เธอคิดว่าจะเป็นคนร้ายกลับไม่ใช่ แต่ดันเป็นน้องชายของเขาที่ดันมาจับตัวเธอไปซะนี่ !กว่าซูซานน่าห์จะเอาชีวิตรอดออกมาได้ก็เกือบตาย ไหนจะเรื่องที่เธอเข้าใจผิดในเรื่องที่ผีสาววานเธอมามาอีกจนทำให้เรื่องทั้งหมดมันยุ่งเข้าไปกันใหญ่ แท้จริงแล้วคนที่ผีตนนั้นต้องการให้ซูซานน่าห์มาบอกก็คือคนใกล้ตัวน้องชายของเธอนั่นเอง ทางด้านของเจสซี่ที่ไม่ยอมปริปากถึงอดีตของเขา ซูซานน่าห์ก็ช่วยอะไรไม่ได้ นอกจากปล่อยให้เขาเป็นเพื่อนร่วมห้องของเธอต่อไป ... (hide spoiler)]
The Ninth Key (Part Two of the Mediator Series)Final Response by Iolanthe Brooks12.24.09I think Suze is just a confused girl trying to find her way.
So, she’s already started ruining her life by wearing shorter skirts and kissing random boys and hurting the ghosts instead of talking to them.
It’s like all that peer pressure to be “normal” won’t let her talk to the ghosts.
Maybe she’s mad that they ruined her social life, that they hurt her, but did they?
And, then I think she becomes to afraid to admit that she’s let people’s words hurt her, so she lies to herself.
But I definitely like it.So, let's talk about Suze for a minute.
This girl is everything I want to be.
I would want this girl as a friend.
She's just a character I really clicked with.
The thing I like about the Mediator books is you don't have to focus a lot.
Not to say it's all fluff- the Mediator books do raise some interesting questions about the afterlife.
But it's definitely a book that doesn't require you to clear your head and focus before reading.Jesse, Jesse, Jesse.
He is both a fictional character AND dead.
I just adore rereading this series. Suze was my hero when I first read this series at 11 years old. And her and Jesse were my first OTP. Love love love.
Good book.
Our heroine has finally had her first dance with a boy (so what if he doesn’t really know her name).
Then he turns up to be connected to her latest ghost.
(Ok still cute, so that’s a plus) Then she finds out his Dad is really weird (but rich, so...I was going to say nice car, but not so much) Then she gets her first kiss (ok, he still doesn’t have her name right, but he’s closer)  Yep, things are clicking along pretty good for our heroine, until we add murder and mayhem along with unruly ghosts.
Good story!
One word. Jesse.
Auch dieser Teil hat mir wieder sehr gut gefallen. Am liebsten würde ich direkt weiterlesen, aber ich möchte mir die Reihe noch ein bisschen aufsparen. :D
Well, I immediately checked out book three, so that more or less speaks for itself. These are fun!
Despite the fact that Gina deserves someone a lot more responsible than Sleepy.Okay, all kidding aside, Ninth Key isn’t bad, it’s just not that remarkable.Well, the climax scenes were well done and hilarious, but besides them this book was a particular slow book.
As I said before, it’s a filler book, but it does a good job showing how blended families relate to each other so that was good.And I liked how we got to see a bit more of Adam and CeeCee in this installment, though I did feel like they were used a bit by Suze.Bad Suze.Overall though, Ninth Key is a good quick read.
Suzie was a little harsh at times in this book, especially towards her step brothers.
It made her seem pretty stupid to be honest.
I changed my mind about who the bad guy was at least three times, the characters were quite unreliable in this book.
I also didn't understand why he was so interested in Suzie, it's not like they had anything in common.
I don't think he will be in the next book, just like Bryce I think he will be a one off character.
I hope that doesn't keep happening in this series, being introduced to boring love interests isn't good!
Book 2 = CHECKThis book was just as good as the first.
Suze is honing her mediator skills and Jesse is as charming as ever.
Not to mention the fabulous sibling rivalry going on.
Having four siblings myself, Meg Cabot nailed it right on the head!!
Loved every bit of it.Luckily I had a large car ride today and got to do the majority of the reading of this book myself, and gave the book on tape a rest.
Not that I minded the audiobook for Shadowland, but when you get the chance to sit down and read.....you do what you gotta do!
More Jesse =) I want even moooore Jesse please.I love that these books are short enough for me to read even when I'm supposed to be reading other things. haha.You know what was nice about this book? There was a moment where I thought Meg Cabot was gonna throw in the most overused creature in the world into the story, but she didn't! She didn't. And I was thankful for that.Meh, what can I say... These books are entertaining.
An enjoyable addition to the Mediator series. Suze is back and as feisty as ever. She makes a mistake while trying to help a ghost which gets her mixed up with some other dangerous business. It was a quick fun read I can't wait to continue on with the series.
The villain in this one is really creepy. Incredibly so.I do enjoy the Peter Simon scenes(forgot he had a first name,which he probably always had I just never noticed.)Ahh Tad. ha Tad.And Jesse moments :D
I liked the first book, but I absolutely loved the second addition to the series! It was pretty fast paced and I could never really guess which way the events were going to go. Something that I really liked about the main character is how funny and sarcastic she is and I'm glad to see that she still had that same spunk in the Ninth Key. I thought the little paranormal spin the author added to it was great. I read it all in one sitting and now cannot wait to move on to the next book in the series!
I thought this one was a lot more fun than the first. I like the development of her relationships with Jesse and the stepbrothers. I wish other characters had a little more to do in this novel, like CeeCee and Adam and Father Dominic, but I'm hoping for a return to them in future installments. I'm going to have to get my hands on the rest of these soon!
Ha sido bastante divertido sin embargo no aporta nada respecto del primer libro e incluso deja más de lado a los personajes secundarios centrándonos en una historia que no ha sido gran cosa. Sigue siendo bueno por la protagonista y el humor pero como segundo libro ha quedado flojo.
Jednoduše perfektní, vtipné, napínavé. :) Susannah vážně není žádné ořezávátko, skvělými hláškami nešetří a k tomu Jesse...Co víc si přát :)
"This was Early-2000s!Gabrielle's least favorite book in the series. She still really enjoyed it."-2016!Gabrielle
It's been a while since I read a book this fast. This one takes place about a week after the incidents of the first book in this series. Though it's been a while since I read the previous book, it wasn't hard to get back into this series at all. Really enjoyed it and highly recommend if you like Young Adult Paranormal Mysteries.
GENIUS.Reunion is my favorite Mediator book of the series so far.
In this book, Suze is caught between the ghosts of four teens who died in a car accident (the RLS Angels) and Michael, the boy from her school who the ghosts are blaming for their deaths.
Even with ghosts being involved, the plot felt very REAL.In Darkest Hour, Suze comes face-to-face with Maria, the ghost who was engaged to her beloved Jesse.
Be prepared for a little side-plot action with the little boy Suze is babysitting – his name is Jack and he’s an eight-year-old mediator.
This and other reviews can be found on The Psychotic Nerd MY THOUGHTS I read the first book a few months ago and I enjoyed it!
This isn't a dark ghost story, more of the fun variety, and it has a common plot, but I enjoyed it!Suz is trying to be semi normal, but the fact that there's a mediator prevents that.
This time she's woken by a screaming woman, a ghost, who needs Suz to tell "Red" that he didn't kill her.
Suz has no idea who this "Red" is, so she asks around.
Turns out "Red" is th
This isn't a dark ghost story, more of the fun variety, and it has a common plot, but I enjoyed it!Suz is trying to be semi normal, but the fact that there's a mediator prevents that.
Turns out "Red" is the nickname of Tad Beaumont's dad.
This book gets really, uh, messed up as it goes on, which is why I have odd feelings towards it.
This book has a wholly fun vibe to it, even when things get dark, for some odd reason.There is a love interest, per say, in this book.
