https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16101018-the-day-the-crayons-quit
It tells the story of Duncan, a little boy who comes home to find his crayons missing and a stack of letters in their place.
But here’s an interesting thing to ponder: There’s this book from 1997 called The Crayon Box That Talked (Shane Derolf/Michael Letzig).
So since both stories are exactly the same idea with even similar jokes, where the only difference is the message, why is everyone acting like this new Crayon book is so original and awesome?
(And if you want your kid to be creative, THAT is the book to buy.) But hooray for the makers of the Crayon story – it’s cute.
► Now, this is awesome and all, but here's the letter from the teacher (That would be me!)For more of my reviews, please visit:
A cute little books about Duncan's box of crayons.
There's often a adult twist, as in the illustration for Pink's letter, which complains that Duncan might be stereotyping Pink as a 'girl's color." The drawing is of a pink dinosaur laughing at an embarrassed pink monster and a cowboy in pink chaps and vest.
Green doesn't have any complaints, he just wishes Yellow and Orange would stop fighting.Peach crayon feels a little naked without his paperI didn't have any kids nearby to test this on, but on the whole I suspect that is the kind of kid's book that entertain adults more than kids.
Hey Duncan,It's me, RED crayon.
I NEED A REST!Your overworked friend, RED crayon.http://www.designmom.com/wp-content/u...Purple crayon is upset that Duncan doesn't color in the lines.Biege has a hilarious complaint:Dear Duncan,I'm tired of being called "light brown" or "dark tan" because I am neither.
LOL LOL Gray crayon is upset about having to color huge gray animals like humpback whales, elephants, hippos, and rhinos.
I had to creep deep down to the bowels of the building to visit our county librarian Joe in his dungeon to find this title.
(Hell, I guess most of us who toil at the library are like that.) After he played me his song of the day - All in a Family by Loudon Wainwright - he cheerfully located the book for me.
Joe has enough free time to learn a new song on his guitar each day?
and putting up with Joe. In it we learn that Duncan's crayons are not happy.
He brought color to this librarian's drab day.
I'm going to lay out the facts as they stand and you can judge for yourself whether or not this book does indeed make a major you-can't-do-that-in-the-21st-century mistake, or if I'm simply suffering from a case of Reading Too Much Into It. Either way, it sure makes this Daywalt/Jeffers collaboration into an interesting point of discussion.Duncan's your average kid.
Heck, they might have brought it up with Jeffers too, since he's the one who came up with the naked monster picture in the first place.Getting away from brown, beige, and peach crayons entirely, let's look at the book in terms of its other merits.
So the crayons have decided to give their resignation letters to Duncan, a kid who wants nothing but draw beautiful things. The letters are artistic and wonderful. But will they help Duncan in any way?
The book is short, as most children's books are, so the reading was only 7 minutes long, but I almost wish that it was longer, that the pictures were shown more, and that I could really appreciate the art that these crayons produced.
If you feel mistreated or are unhappy - speak up and try to change the situation.
I didn't feel like it was a message of selfishness or laziness on behalf of the crayons - they just wanted to be respected and appreciated and treated fairly.
I also quite liked the message from the little boy Duncan's perspective.
Guess who was mystery reader on Friday?!
My daughter chose this book for me to read and it was immediately evident that third graders love this book (potentially because the word "naked" is used three times in the letter from peach crayon).
This story is a collection of letters (with accompanying crayon drawings) from the crayons, mostly registering complaints.
It is unique in that the illustrator replicates children's drawings very well and the kids love this.
(I loved that the book was really done in crayon.) The final solution to appease the disgruntled crayons shows a lot of creativity and had the class recalling the crayons requests.
Honestly, this book was truly creative and interesting to read all the way through!One day in class, Duncan decided to take out his crayons to start drawing a picture when he suddenly got a stack of letters that were all address to him.
I have to say that this book was pretty interesting for a book about crayons and I really loved the way that Drew Daywalt wrote the story as the story is told mostly through the letters written by the crayons and how they are complaining to Duncan, the little boy, about how they are not treated fairly and that they want to be used a bit better whenever Duncan does his drawings.
One day, a little boy Duncan goes to get his crayons and instead finds a stack of letters.
All of his crayons have written him a letter expressing their grievances and why they have quit.
Each spread features the letter from the color and drawings by Duncan or his coloring books.
A very funny book that I hope is as funny for kids as it was for an adult reader.
Adult readers will see typical child behavior in each one of the crayons that a child might not pick up on.Suggested for ages 4 and up
Some reviewers were upset about this children's book, feeling that the crayon colors did not adequately represent the range of skin tones of all children.
For self-portraits, incidentally, we used the Crayola brand "Multicultural Crayons," with a range of skin tone colors!
They were well-liked by my students...
I still have no idea why...) My medium-brown-skinned kindergartners were just as likely to give themselves lavender skin in self-portraits.
"Because I like that color!" One peachy-pink-skinned second-grader would color himself scarlet red: "Because I'm mad today!" The imaginations of children...
I’m okay with it in college and high school, especially for art majors where I suppose it’s a necessity.Despite my few reservations, I do highly recommend the book, either for read aloud (one to one or for groups) and for independent readers too, if their reading skills are sufficiently advanced to be able to read slightly atypically written letters in various colors.I love the message of the book, even though it is extremely didactic, and the humor and the pictures are wonderful.
5 saoPicture book cho trẻ em có những tiêu chuẩn đánh giá của riêng nó.
Nhiều cuốn nội dung rất đơn giản nhưng vẫn có điểm cao vì nó có mục đích đề ra cho mình và hoàn thành tốt được mục đích đó.
Người lớn đọc vào có thể sẽ thấy nhạt nhẽo, vô vị nhưng đó lại là một món ăn 'đậm đà' đối với lũ trẻ.
Bơi thê thang điêm đanh gia sach danh cho thiêu nhi cua minh se rât khac sach danh cho ngươi lơn.Còn vơi cuốn này thi không cân xet sach danh cho thiêu nhi hay ngươi lơn, nó vân xưng đang vơi điêm sô ca
Cách trình bày thì càng đáng yêu thêm gấp bội, dù chỉ là những hình nguệch ngoạc trên nền giấy trắng nhưng với những sắc màu tươi tắn cũng đủ làm sáng bừng lên trang sách.
Các bức thư được viết tay như chữ trẻ con càng làm tăng độ "kawaii" cho lời lẽ trong đó.Nói chung thì cuốn này dạy cho bọn trẻ rất nhiều bài học, từ làm quen với các màu sắc, biết thương yêu đồ vật của mình, cách lên tiếng khi không hài lòng và quan trọng là biết được không có giới hạn nào cho việc sáng tạo.
Stop the presses--the best new Children's book of 2013 is in and it is "The Day the Crayons Quit", no arguments.Hysterical story of a poor, little boy who goes to school to discover numerous handwritten (in crayon of course) aggrieved letters from his crayons.
Much drama in the crayon box and they have all decided to QUIT.I embarrassed myself at the circulation desk reading it because I kept barking out laughter.
The illustrations are fantastic (same guy who illustrated "This Moose Belongs to Me", another one of my faves) and the text is spot on.This is the kind of picture book that adults will love and kids will find hysterical.
This book is fabulous! I totally love it! Beautiful text, so alive, and the pictures are brilliant.
Very funny how the Crayons were fighting. Short and nice, loved it. kids will enjoy it.
#BlackCrayonsMatter They really do.
I've learned a lot from this imaginatively witty picture book—like how Red Crayon has gotten the shaft, working holidays (Christmas and Valentine's Day are the absolute worse for him) and coloring in way more than he should.
Hell, I don't blame the guy for being so fed up!
They're at each other's non-existent throats over who the "true" color of the sun is and it's just sad they can't hug it out.
But Black Crayon gets dogged out the most, man.
More kids should use the underappreciated color to fill in beach balls.
The Day the Crayons Quit - Drew DaywaltThe crayons quit because they're all a bit tired of coloring the same old things. Each crayon writes a separate letter, explaining exactly what they're each tired off. [The letters look really good, by the bye] and there's a sample of the coloring they're talking about.The good news is, Duncan is a responsible crayon owner, and does his best to accede to their requests. The result is fabulous.Creative and amusing.The more I think about it, the more I am in favor of children's books preaching the message of collective bargaining.Library copy.
I don't always review books that my son brings home from the school library (unless I love or HATE them haha) but this one made the 2013 Goodreads Choice Awards and several of you have it on your "to-read" list.
The whole point of these books is to get children reading, and when the text is too messy and out of line, it is really difficult for them to read on their own.
I ended up having to read all of the crayon writing while he read the pages with typed text (which wasn't much!).
Hilarious book for my boys (as well as me and hubby). It's always nice to read a kid's book that appeals to adults as well. It was filled with imagination, creativity, and a great deal of humor.
3.5 stars, lovely illustrations and I really like the hand written letters. Not as funny as 'The day The Crayons' came Home. I didn't like the part about the naked crayon being embrassed and how this was seen to be giggly? I would like young children not to have to worry about a body being naked or find anything to giggle about. 5 stars for the artwork.
This book was hilarious! It reminds me of how I used to use crayons as a kid-well, I did use pink a little more ;) And that drawing at the end was a sweet touch too. 4.5 stars.

“One day in class, Duncan went to take out his crayons and found a stack of letters with his name on them.”
Duncan has a problem he has to solve, and soon ...
it's hard to make EVERY crayon happy.
those that have a dispute between them, like about who is better to depict the sun, or those that think their color should over-spill outside the lines ....
or like poor Pink Crayonthat hasn't been used ONCE ....
EVER!!Can Duncan sort this mess and make ALL the crayons happy?.....AND clothed?
One of the things I love about an occasional visit to Barnes and Noble is getting my hands on a darling (brand spanking new) little gem like this in the children's book section.I read it to myself.
Then I called Zach over and read it to him.
And I'm putting it on my to-read shelf, only so I can remember to for sure find it again and read it to my other little guys.
Sometimes I think I would make an excellent children's book buyer for my local library.
Super creative and entertaining, Zach and I spent time today recalling some of the letters and laughing anew.I just plain loved it!
Excellent, original and not tedious for adults to read. Great book to give as a gift.
Duncan loves to colour.
Red crayon has written that he is tired of being overused for fine engines, Christmas and Valentine’s Day; neat-freak Purple is sick of being used outside the lines of grapes and dragons; Beige is sick of playing second fiddle to brown; Grey is tired from being the colour of choice of all Duncan’s big animals; and White is fed up of only being used to fill in empty space.
How can Duncan make them all happy?The Day the Crayons Quit is such a playful and fun story; I loved it!
In a series of letters to their boy Duncan, each crayon describes how it has been used, what it has drawn, and how it makes them feel.
On the facing page is one of Duncan's pieces that features said crayon, and exemplifies its plight.
Finally, to round out this mixed media mash-up are the crayons themselves, which all stand out from the rest with a painted look,therefore setting them neither in the world of the real, nor in the world of Duncan's coloured creations.The crayon-related humour focuses on two aspects, things that can happen to the physical objects themselves, or the nature of the hue.
The Baby Bettys found the Peach Crayon to be the most fascinating.
Upon finishing the book they immediately peeled the paper off of every peach crayon in the house!
Personally, I got a kick out of the Yellow and Orange crayons fighting over who should be used to color the sun!
So, so cute-- we have read it about a dozen times already!
They are requesting that we read it over and over again.
:) Some picture books are almost painful for the parent to read, but not this one!
The Baby Bettys obviously colored.
2. All peach crayons were stripped of their wrappers!
This is Amazon's children's book of 2013 , and it is adorable. The crayons are mad.The poor red crayon is overused for firetrucks , apples, and strawberries and has to work all through the Christmas holidays as everything then is red. Blue is short and stubby from being the favorite, while pink has been used but once all year. White just disappears on the page , and Black is tired of just outlining things. My 6 year old grandson loves this book , almost as much as his grandma. Very cute illustrations too.
