https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233436.The_Loneliness_of_the_Long_Distance_Runner
"I didn't like him trying to accuse me of something he wasn't sure I'd done.""They can spy on us all day to see if we're pulling our puddings and if we're doing our 'athletics', but they can't make an X-ray out of our guts to find out what we're telling ourselves."If you're thinking this is a sports book from the title, think again.
This sums up the runner's attitude: "I didn't like him trying to accuse me of something he wasn't sure I'd done."Published in 1959, this is prime-time stuff of the "angry young man" Brit school of the period; the title story was shortly thereafter made into a great film.These are all beautiful stories of loneliness, poignant resignation and longing among the working class.
Alan Sillitoe burst onto the British literary scene in the late 50s & early 60s writing tough and gritty stories predominantly set in the Midlands amongst the working class poor, and dole recipients of a Britain in decline in the post war years.
Running is a solitary action and therefore allows Smith to begin to understand and become aware of the class divisions in Britain at the time.
Characters like Sillitoe's Smith were born into a working class culture that accepted and produced a criminal activity.
Superb collection of short stories. Their power lies in the manner in wich they give you the satisfaction of reading, of constructing a story and give you the impression they have all the qualities a full novel should have. There is a lot told in them without seeming over hasty. A great contempt for all aspects of writing. And yet they are so misguiding simple.
Se qualcuno ha avuto l'ardire di leggere la mia recensione dei "Nove Racconti" di Salinger, saprà ch
(To sling one’s hook, it seems, means simply to leave a place, and in the Derby-Nottingham area, one mashes tea instead of brewing it.) The author spells out dialect, a la Mark Twain, but for those who are not accustomed to the kind of speech these characters use, that’s also a negative because it separates the unknowing reader from the story.
The stories in this collection mostly deal with families like Sillitoe's - poor factory workers living in cramped, dirty houses where the noise, soot and grime of the nearby factory is a constant part of their lives.The title story is about a young man (Colin) who robs a bakery and is sent to a borstal, a sort of part youth prison, part reform school.
There is an almost childlike innocence to him; when he meets two young girls at a diner, obviously poor and hungry, he offers to buy them something to eat.
Il direttore vuole dimostrare come il proprio istituto sappia correggere i ragazzi, portandoli sulla via dell’onesta, del buon esempio, e lo fa dandogli una pacca sulla spalla.Il ragazzo allora corre e pensa, e maledice tutto il corpo di polizia e il direttore stesso, e mentre alterna i piedi sul selciato si guarda attorno e respira a pieni polmoni gli alberi e il freddo della prima alba e l’odore dell’erba e racconta come ci è finito in quel luogo, per nulla autentico e “riformativo”, per un furto commesso col suo amico di merende e per non aver più voglia di stare a guardare ogni sera la TV con cui tanto si è divertito in famiglia, togliendo l’audio e mettendo alla berlina i personaggi televisivi con le loro smorfie mute, per ridere e non pensare alla miseria sua e dei suoi genitori, e del padre morto dissanguato nel salotto, per un tumore all’intestino, che ha inguacchiato il pavimento come fosse una mattanza...
Some find small victories, the runner finds freedom when he is alone like he is the last man on earth, another lives in a fantasy world where he leads his troops into battle, but they are only schoolboys.All heartbreaking stories but almost all find a way where they have their freedom, something that cannot be controlled, their will....winning means the exact opposite, no matter how hard they try to kill or kid me, means running right into their white-gloved wall-barred hands and grinning mugs and staying there for the rest of my natural long life of stone-breaking anyway, but stone-breaking in the way I want to do it and not in the way they tell me.
I want to qualify this rating by saying that the title story in this collection is fantastic, and a few of the others were lovely in their own way.
Especially for a writer who's acclaimed for giving life to working-class protagonists who usually get ignored in british lit, it seems like he doesn't have a lot of sympathy for his own creations.
But read the title story, it's great, and it gives you a feeling of wanting to punch a cop, which is a feeling that I think ought to be felt by everyone, at least once in a while.
This is one of the saddest books I have ever read; not because it contains so much misery but rather because it is so brilliantly described that it feels so real.
From leaving school at fourteen to get a series of jobs in factories, to playing with sticks and stones and climbing walls because there were no toys or anything else to do, to having to join the army to fight in WWII, the lives of the characters in these stories seem a million miles away from my own, and yet in reality they were just just my grandparents' and parents' generation.
"The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner" is an outstanding short story collection. The stories here take place in working class England in the immediate pre and post WWII era. The characters are all in unhappy and near inescapable circumstances. They feel crushed by their lives and are only able to assert their freedom in the smallest and often most self-destructive ways. Sillitoe does a great job of capturing the humanity in these characters without reducing them to caricatures. This book serves as a great antidote to the sort of elitist upper class short story collections that totally dominate publishing today.
I found this to be a rough go. Excellently done but comes off strangely dated.
The 1962 film "Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner" is my favorite of the British New Wave, which is why a friend lent me this short story collection.
I'm going to rate each story individually."Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner" 5 stars.
One of my favorite short stories of all time.
Another terrific story told from the point of view of a young lad with a wry sense of humor, this time coming for the close quarters of his street and lack of privacy, making his viewpoint more observational than editorial.
As a long-distance runner myself, the bold prominence of the activity’s name paired with the background image of the runner inspired me to read Sillitoe’s stories of working class British life between the World Wars right away.The highlight of this collection is most certainly the eponymous lead off story, “The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner”.
In this story, Smith, an adolescent in the grain of Holden Caulfield, finds himself reflecting on his life and world-view while running for his reform school cross-country team.
In the final pages the writer protagonist Alan says a final goodbye to Frankie, his adolescence and the time period as a whole.Alan Sillitoe’s The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner was an interesting read.
Защото може да съм си останала „самотен бегач“, но това все повече ми харесва и не ми пречи.
Защото онази огромна социална безизходица я няма вече нито в Англия, нито дори в България надявам се… (Успокоих се, че времената наистина са други главно чрез бележките под линия – нужно е било да се обясни какво е „чипс“ и „буукмекер“ (така е изписано).
Все пак това е много странно, защото мама не знае дори и значението на тази дума – значи не съм я наследил от нея.
Но него бих го гушнала… А дори и без тази книга всеки ден мисля за „Франи и Зуи“.
I bought this book because I was attracted to the title, but only realized after the fact that it's an anthology.
The first story for which it's titled sets the tone for the whole series of stories; all of which have to do with antagonism between working class characters and Authority...whether that authority be upper-class, the police, or family hierarchy.
The remainder of the stories are vignettes of working class life.
"Самотният бегач на дълго разстояние" е най-хубавото нещо, което съм чела през последната година и половина.
Но на мен все пак ми хареса, сигурно, защото тайно не желая да пораствам, а да си правя каквото поискам: да къмпингувам на пода в хола, да ходя боса по нагрятия от слънцето асфалт, да се смея много високо, когато ми е много смешно, да разполагам с цялото време на света.
— Бягай!Но аз бях глух, ням и сляп, не мърдах от мястото си, дъвчех кората и все още плачех като детенце, плачех вече от радост, че най-сетне ги победих.Разказите също са много добри.
Същевременно не са потискащи, като че ли са просто "такива, каквито са", което за мен е супер.
One of the great novellas to come from post-war Britain, a brilliant exercise in sustained narrative and characterization, an utterly compelling voice. Thematically, it may be summed as “to thine own self be true,” but the story messes with your head because the protagonist is a horrible person. It is admirable that he is so true to himself, but his is a self best changed. The short stories that accompany the novella are merely very good. RUNNER achieves greatness. Read it now.
I kind of feel like I may have missed something with these tales (maybe I need to go back and read them again) but while I did really enjoy them and really feel for the main characters and their sense of melancholy and despair, I wasn't as enamoured as I thought I might be given the reviews this has gotten and the reputation it has.
Maybe I read it too fast to really get pulled into the nitty gritty of each story or I'm lacking a certain level of empathy but I did find that on one hand each story captured the desperation of the times on the other I was kind of thinking 'for goodness sake sort yourself out and stop waiting for everyone else to do it'.
Apoyado en la fama del primer relato que da título a la obra (fama posterior aunque de muy pronta aparición en la vida de esta obra) se despliegan una serie de relatos con sabor a rabia, a retrato de una situación concreta y muy poco transitada. La voz narrativa por momentos resulta arrogante, pero siempre directa y certera. Hombres y niños-hombre que habitan un mundo complicado, alienado. Mucha vehemencia entre la que se cuela algún chispazo de piedad hacia algunos personajes. En general una lectura amena, que ofrece esa voz rotunda y que zarandea al lector.

I think this theme is creatively conveyed in the story “On Saturday Afternoon.” A suicidal bloke wants to hang himself because he has lost his job and his “missus” has left him; his attempted suicide happens to be witnessed by an already-disillusioned ten-year old boy, the narrator, who warns the bloke that the rope won’t hold because it’s attached to a light fixture.
a poor bloke can’t even hang himself these days.” When a policeman arrives at the scene, he and the suicidal man have this conversation:“Well, what did you do it for?”“Because I wanted to.”“You’ll get five years for this.”“That’s what yo’ think.
I didn’t know what to expect when I picked up this book, which has sat on the shelves of my local library for over 40 years.
Being a former cross-country runner, I suppose the title and unique format of eight short stories intrigued me enough to check it out.
I liked the title story: the twist was devilish and I admit that in a couple of others I was hooked.
However, more than half of these stories are dated back to the 40s and 50s.
My knowledge of working-class English lingo is limited where I couldn’t navigate through enough of these stories on the whole to enjoy what the heck was going on.
I re-read these stories every few years — at least the title one and a couple other ones. They capture time, place, and character so well. Strange, too. I read these stories and then read something quite contemporary like the sketches in Treats and I can see the line connecting the two quite clearly. It’s distinctly British and middle-class and despite sixty years or so, youth’s expectations and disappointment in the older generations — and in the opposite sex — hasn’t changed much.
Things have changed, life has changed, some of the ingredients listed below persist but though the England of this book (and some of the characters) is now a little dated and the style superseded.(Nick Hornby and Irvine Walsh spring immediately to mind) the life experiences ascribed herein remain relevant and contemporary.This collection of short stories, at it's best, captures the atmosphere of English working class life in the 1950's, 60's and 70's; the inherent distrust of, and resentment towards authority and class privilege, the sense of quiet desperation, the simmering frustration of living within limited horizons, with limited aspirations and the directness, honesty and lack of pretense that a resignation to these 'facts of Life' cultivates.
The protagonist of the title story has to be one of the great rebels of literature, and an interesting opposite to the Marxist concept of an individual's political (class) consciousness.
In fact, he completely rejects the Marxist tradition by emphasizing his individuality--even though the characters in this book are all strongly, proudly, and defiantly English working class, they reject a too-strong group identity, and even perhaps have a certain spirituality (the runner feeling freedom as "the first man" when he goes out for his training in the morning) that helps them accept their role in a cruel world.These stories are depressing.
So literary merits aside (I'll get back to you; left the book in the city halfway through the first story and came up here to Woodstock), the juvenile delinquent class warrior of the title has been a pretty good role model for me so far, athletically speaking.I have also learned that "Borstal" is not just the name of a specific place, but is actually a generic term for youth detention facilities in the UK, a fact that was never made clear enough to me by Sham 69.This book kind of goes with another book I'm reading, which I found in the library at social work school, called Social Control of Mental Defectives.
I will be doing a video review of this as well.So I went into this book with absolutely no expectations.
It being a book I had to read on my course I guess I was expecting a quite dull and boring book, but full of literary genius.
What I got was all of the literary genius and none of the bore!
However, this book challenges this and in a very successful way, which is understandable given that Sillitoe himself grew up in almost poverty.
A collection of short stories centered on England’s working class between the 1930s and 1950s, these tales are sparse character studies of sometimes unsentimental protagonists.
I enjoyed them, mostly because they captured a time and way of life that is frequently mined in creative works but seldom so deftly sketched – these stories are neither sentimental fluff of the good ole days nor darkly pessimistic tripe.
In short, my high school English teacher would be proud of her lasting impact on my reading habits – even if I will admit that too much scrutiny would likely reduce the simplicity and strength of these tales.
As an athlete and as a fan of this sort of book, I really loved this. I like the balance of scope and the intimacy. It was not unlike The Catcher in the Rye in that way, and also as a transitional book: Just as one could argue that Catcher led to  The Chocolate War and then the works of  Chris Crutcher and thus more and more extreme and explicit and real stories of adolescent angst or what-have-you, you could make a case that Alan Sillitoe paved the way for the likes of  A Clockwork Orange and other fuck-the-establishment-grow-as-a-person novels.
