https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1228367.Sue_Barton_Student_Nurse
The hospital (based on Massachusetts General where Boylston herself received her own training just before WWI) is very much like a huge campus, and the student nurses live in a dormitory (are there any nursing schools where this happens nowadays?) which has strict rules about lights out at 10:00 -- a constant of all the early women's college fiction I've read.
So I've been threatening to read an actual nurse novel ever since Francis Johnson and today the actually totally amazing selection of dollar books outside of Book Thug Nation has allowed me to do so.
With its general school-friend sense of camaraderie and loose episodic plotting joined only by the progression of the year and studies, it essentially reads like the first couple Harry Potters.
(Also like Harry Potter, come to think of it, except Sue is, like, eighteen here, so even more implausible.) But then, page 2:"I don't believe it.
Nurse Novels:
I don't know how I missed the Sue Barton books when I was growing up; my library must not have had them.
But I'm happy to have the chance to read them now—-although I had to go all the way to Australia (via the internet) to find affordable copies of the first two.
First published in 1936, this is a fascinating portrayal of nursing in the 1930s.
(Boylston herself graduated from nursing school in 1915, and the book is about her own experiences as a nursing student.
Now I'm off to see how Sue fares as a senior nurse.
1) I always wish her rich friend had gone by Constance instead of Connie2) There was a Sue Barton in my freshman dorm at college.
She just looked at me blankly when I asked if she had considered nursing school instead!
Maybe the Lexington, MA library didn't carry these books?3) It is a pity that nurses these days don't wear caps but I guess the men wouldn't like it.*4) Not to risk starting a war with that Eleanor woman but Sue was definitely better than Cherry!5) Overall, I love this series; especially the first two books (naturally, I own them all, after reading them from the library growing up).* male nurses, I meant!
This book still holds its charms even though I must have read it a billion times and it is close to 70 years old. It manages masterly to combine a progressing story with the description of nursing training and presenting interesting characters both among staff and patients. The author imparts on the reader her own love for the hospital, its people and the job. No wonder I for years wanted to become a nurse after reading these books.
What a step back in time.
I read these ages ago, growing up - these, Cherry Ames, that series about airline stewardesses...
There's a casual approach to its plot - I remember that first English class where I learned about rising action and climaxes and falling action, with a helpful little graph drawn on the board.
That laid-back approach to plot is balanced by more formal writing.
There's just something about books published 80 years ago: they feel different.
This is an old book, yes; it certainly reads as dated.
But it's honest enough to be almost a history of its time.
This is a charming book, with a refreshingly human heroine who is also very dedicated to her profession. The storyline is quite simple, but it is delightfully written and a lot of fun. I love the dialogue between Sue and her friends, Kit and Connie, and some of the crazy escapades they get into. (view spoiler)[Poor Miss Alden (163)! I wonder if she ever found out what happened. (hide spoiler)] There are also some parts that I found to be quite funny. I love the hospital culture that books like t
There were very definite codes of behavior, a strong sense of tradition, and a lot of emphasis on school and professional pride.
(hide spoiler)] I'm not sure if any of this still exists in the nursing profession, but it's a lovely world to read about.
[Although I can't figure out while nearly all the patients had some sort of an accent.]I first encountered these books when I was younger--probably in middle school--and had happened to stumble across one of them at a library book sale.
Some of the incidents of this one did come back to me a little as I read it, and I look forward to rereading the rest of the series!
She also learns many of life’s lessons along the way:Life isn’t always fair.No matter how nice you are, everyone will not always like you.You cannot predict the future.If you are interested in reading about what it used to require to become a nurse, this is an excellent read; if your interest lies more with nursing today, probably not the book for you.This book is well written, with just enough twists and turns to keep you guessing.
I don't know many people outside of my family who read these, but they've been comfort reads for me for a long time.
Boylston started writing them in the 1930s and continued into the 1950s, telling the story of a young woman who becomes a nurse, from nursing school through settlement work in New York City to marriage and nursing in a rural New Hampshire community.
The sentiment sometimes turns into soppiness, but the warm humor and the vivid characters always cheer me up.
She faces the scary Miss Cameron, angry patients and the night shifts from Hell with the help of her devoted friends Kit and Connie, and the friendship of young Dr Bill Barry.I first read this book way back in the 80's after a long spell in hospital and I was fascinated by this story.
The way the characters talk had me convinced that it was English but Sue herself is from New Hampshire and Connie from Chicago...I'm actually surprised that there haven't been more up to date series about nursing as this series was a huge best seller.
I'm astonished to find this was first published in 1936 - I first read it in the late 1970s and it never struck me as old-fashioned or out of date.
I've always loved Sue, with her brown eyes (yay!
More heroines should have brown eyes) and alert humour.
I never felt the slightest inclination to follow her into nursing but I read all the books many times.In this, the first book, the story starts as Sue sets off to the hospital where she is to train.
I got a copy of this at a library book sale that prices by the bag, so some books that I may not have ordinarily picked up found their way into my to-read pile.
The most interesting parts were the details about both the day-to-day lives of the nurses and the vintage medical practices of the hospital.I'd read more of these if they were easily available, but I wasn't drawn in enough to track down a bunch of secondhand copies and have them shipped to me.
Maybe I'll come across the next book in a local used shop, or maybe they'll be available as e-books someday.
This is the umpteenth reading of one of my favorite series. Sue Barton is a young woman entering nursing school and the book tells of her adventures and mishaps learning nursing in a large hospital. The book is set in the 1930s and it's amazing how menial the chores of these nurses were. Bed-making, dusting, and serving meals? Wow. Still love it though.
OK, I read all the Sue Barton books, probably 50plus years ago. I loved each and every one!!! I loved Sue and I loved her boyfriend and you know what? I became a nurse!!!! Don't know whether I read them because at the time I wanted to be a nurse or did they affect me to become a nurse!But how come her back never hurt like mine did!!!! after a day at work!
Had a 24-hour bug this week and Sue was a great comfort.6-29-2012:I would have started reading even sooner, had I known that on her first day on the ward, Sue (view spoiler)[falls down a laundry chute! (hide spoiler)]!
Oh, how I wanted to be Sue Barton, a beautiful, idealistic nurse who marries the handsome doctor and proves that a woman with an education is the best wife any man can have!
I want to know first off, why I didn't ever try this series in the first place!
Thank you Bethany for recommending it.:) I would consider this a classic, because it is one of the few series that isn't written in a pulp-fiction style.
Sue Barton is taken from an experienced point of view, and written with plenty of humor, feeling, and character development.
How they stopped the snooty Lois from pestering and worrying gentle Hilda into a fit of nerves, how Connie proves her dedication to the other nurses, how they try to discover the best nursing technique with error, and how Sue finds out whether she is cut from the right cloth for her profession, make this a wonderful read!
This is the first book in the series.
It starts with Sue joining forces with her soon to be best friends Kit and Connie on a wonderful and sometimes frightening adventure in nursing school.
This is the way nursing should be taught ......with the students living in the hospital having classes in the morning and working with patients part of the day.This book gives a delightful view of a bygone era.
I highly recommend this series for all ages.An interesting bit of trivia......Helen Boylston was living with Laura Ingalls Wilder while writing some of the Sue Barton books.
Helen and Rose Wilder were friends.
So looking forward to reading about Kit, Connie & Sue. My mother was reading this series when she was pregnant with me - that's how I was named Connie! Written in the 50's the wording and information is so funny. "the cats meow" just one of the many.So excited to read all 7. On to #2
So those parts are a little dated, but the characters and their interactions remain incredibly enjoyable and very...not so much current as timeless.
I don't really know why I like these books so much, as they have very little plot; mostly they just follow Sue and her friends through life, through nursing school, and visiting nurses and rural nurses, into marriage and children and back into nursing.
But the characters ring very true, and the dialogue is so enjoyable that it covers up the lack of meat to the plot.
Remember reading this when very young and liking the series. I'd no idea back then that that author was BFF (and possibly a lot more) to the daughter of favorite writer at the time Laura Ingalls Wilder. The series wouldn't hold up today, but was fun reading back then.
There was a lot that I liked about this novel, but I really could have done without the farce aspects, which is why it only gets three stars. It seems to be drawing on some of the same tropes as girls boarding school books.I did very much like that Sue is serious about her career, and the author actually shows Sue arguing against some of the sexism she encounters, which was a pleasant surprise.
My mother loved these books when she was a girl and read them often. They're out of print now and hard to get ahold of, but if you can find them it would be worth your effort. Let it be said that they are obviously books from a different time and era, and because of that they are totally priceless. I loved them for their 1920's insight into woman's experience.
As the first book in the series, Sue Barton, Student Nurse is a quick read (took me no more than an hour or two), but a good one. It's a wonder I've never wanted to be a nurse or a doctor, as much as I love reading about their work. It's a feel-good book of the old-fashioned style and I greatly enjoyed it. I'll be looking forward to reading the rest of the series.
I am amazed that the Sue Barton books are still in existence! I read (I think) the whole series when I was in fifth grade (many years ago) and I LOVED them at the time. I've no idea how they would read for today's readers, but am pleasantly surprised by the favorable reviews.
One of my absolute favourites from childhood - I'm so glad my mum shared them with me. I never get tired of reading about Sue, her adventures in the hospital with Kit and Connie, and the handsome Dr Bill Barry! There are many more elements that combine to make this a timeless classic.
I've been trying to remember the name of this series of books ever since I joined Goodreads. I finally managed it today. Iread all of them when I was in junior school and really loved them. The books made me think of nursing as a career, but in the end I chose Ragiography instead.
My favorite series of all time!! Sue Barton is always getting into funny situations and I laughed out loud a lot while reading this book. Too bad it's so hard to get now! :-(
My mum read these stories as a girl and then passed them onto me when I was a girl. I loved them as much as she did and I'm now re reading them as an adult.
I love love love this look at nursing in the 1930s. Sue and her friends seem so real and the details are captivating. I have the next few on request and can't wait to get through the whole series.
