https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19302.Pippi_Longstocking
( brought back memories for us)When Backman was asked what his favorite books were, he said...."his biggest hero is Astrid Lindgren who wrote "Pippi Longstocking" and his favorite book of all time "The Brothers Lionheart".....,( a book I'm now curious to read myself).....Paul and I immediately started thinking about our daughter who played the title role of Pippi Longstocking in the world premiere Bay Area musical when she was 11 years old.
While looking at my mother's Day flowers from our 35 year old daughter....
If I had not read "The Goodreads", interview with *Fredrick Backman*, today ( mail backed up for weeks)....I would have missed this recall memory....Thank you ....
Because I had red/orange hair ;-) I was even called Pippi Langkous (the Dutch translation) sometimes then..
I swear I have this photo of myself as a kid, spitting image then, now my hair is white/orange mixed, I'm sure Pippi would have the same as an older and still eccentric lady?
Pippi revived :-) Most of all I loved her adventurous, free spirit.
I have named our house 'Villa Kakelbont'.Lovely adventures, great stories!
Astrid Lindgren really wrote great children's books, so adventurous, so out of the box.
In Sweden, this is exactly what it is like to go to school nowadays!And in a class of 30 students, we have more than half a class of Pippi characters, and some shy, intimidated Tommys and Annikas, trying their best to learn while the Pippis do whatever they feel like.I am a die-hard fan of Astrid Lindgren, she is the only author I know almost entirely by heart, and I wouldn't want to change the fictional character of Pippi one bit!But I am a bit worried that this has become reality - and as so often when fiction turns into truth, there are some scary elements.
Pippi was named by Lindgren's daughter Karin, then nine years old like Pippi, who asked her mother for a get-well story when she was off school.
رفتار او کاملاً متفاوت با هم‌سن‌های خویش است، و شخصیتی جسور، و نیرویی فوق‌ العاده دارد، به‌ طوری که اسب خود را یک‌ دستی بلند می‌کند.
نقل از متن پشت جلد: پی پی سه تا تخم مرغ برداشت، و به هوا پرتاب کرد.
در برزیل به همین دلیل همه تخم مرغ به سر این طرف و آن طرف میروند، و حتی یک نفر هم کچل نیست.
Since I love Scandinavian authors and review many Swedish and Norwegian novels, I'm often asked what the best language is if you're planning to read one in translation. It's early days yet, but I'm starting to feel more and more certain that the answer is German. Just like  Komet im Mumintal , which I read last year, Pippi Langstrumpf was an absolute winner and felt 100% authentic. It was exactly like reading it in Swedish: the melody of the sentences was the same, the word-play was the same, an
Since I love Scandinavian authors and review many Swedish and Norwegian novels, I'm often asked what the best language is if you're planning to read one in translation.
, which I read last year, Pippi Langstrumpf was an absolute winner and felt 100% authentic.
It was exactly like reading it in Swedish: the melody of the sentences was the same, the word-play was the same, and, most important, Pippi's voice was the same.
If you can't appreciate this wonderful book in the original, read it in German and you'll hardly miss anything at all.
Heja Pippi!
She is always on the child's side against the adults, and now she makes me think about how we don't, in fact, care very much about children's rights.The fact that children have very few real rights is highlighted by the fact that it is, as far as I know, universally accepted that they should not have the right to vote.
No one would dream of taking the vote away from pensioners; but somehow, it seems equally far-fetched to give the vote to children.Of course, it won't happen: at the end of the day, the adult voters would never approve it, because it would mean giving up too much power.
The original concept for the novel originated in 1944, when Astrid Lindgren's then seven year old daughter was ill with pneumonia and Lindgren told her imaginative stories about a fantastical and mischievous little girl named Pippi Longstocking.
Even if Pippi Longstocking will never take the place in my heart of Lindgren characters like Madicken and Emil, I have come to both appreciate and personally love her.And finally, I would also like to mention that Pippi Longstocking is definitely a book which I would love to be able to rate with half stars, because, if half stars were possible, I would be giving 3.5 stars to Pippi Longstocking.
She's like the imaginary friend we'd like to be, except, in the end, she makes us grateful we have our mums and dads and homes (oh, she gets a little emotional, despite her fearless bravado).This is one of those kids books I am not inwardly groaning when it's time to read to my daughter (although I did love it more when I was still a girl, myself).
Random picture evidence:I loved this as a kid.
Pippilotta Delicatessa Windowshade Mackrelmint Ephraim's Daughter Longstocking of Villa Villekulla is a timeless character and I hope she continues to be loved by children of upcoming generationsPeace out, Nomes(me and Carissa x)
i was thrilled by the thought of a new version of Pippi illustrated by Lauren Child.
also, Pippi's full name changed from "Pippilotta Delicatessa Windowshade Mackrelmint Ephraim's Daughter Longstocking" to "Pippilotta Comestibles Windowshade Curlymint Ephraimsdaughter Longstocking".
i frankly don't care if the new translation is "more correct".
furthermore, several of Pippi's lies seem vaguely racist in this new translation, which was not apparent in the old.that spouted, i do appreciate Child's illustrations.
i do hope this book brings a new generation to one of my favorite heroes.
one of my favorite heroes, whose father is a cannibal king, goddamnit.
For, you probably still need Pippi's attitude to survive in a modern-day Sweden even if you don't have her super powers - Lisbeth might have been an orphan and a rebel just like Pippi, she might only have her hacking skills as a proxy for Pippi's super-strength, but at the end of the day both could kick some ass.The review you have just read above is meant to illustrate how my reading of The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo influenced my reading of Pippi Longstocking.
I just wish I had read Astrid first - of course I might never have heard of Pippi if not for Larsson.
This was a cute story! It made me think of Roald Dahl's writing style and creativity. This is definitely a book I'll suggest to my students.
Astrid Lindgren is not popular enough in the United States.
And that makes me sad.Her books, especially Pippi Longstocking and Carlson On The Roof are well known and loved over in Europe.
And it is so well deserved.When I was little, Pippi was everything I ever wanted to be : wild, free and completely unapologetic.
I guess you can say that this book is very nostalgic for me.
And if Pippi is a little too much for you, there are some milder characters to choose from.
Astrid Lindgren's books are as funny as they are sad (and heartbreaking at times).
آلیس یه دختر کاملاً معقول (و حتا کمی تندخو و خشک) که وسط یه شهر پر از خل و چل و دیوونه گم میشه و سعی میکنه با بدخلقی اشتباهات دیگران رو بهشون یادآوری کنه، ولی هیچ فایده ای نداره.اما پی پی، خودش عجیب و غریب و کمی دیوونه است، و وسط کلی آدم بزرگ معقول و خشک گیر کرده و مدام با کارها و حرف های نامعقولش، اون ها رو از کوره به در میکنه.من فکر کنم لذت خوندن این دومی برای بچه ها بیشتر باشه، هر چند تخیل داستان آلیس خیلی خلاق تر و رنگارنگ تره.
L, is for Lindgren 2.5 StarsPippi Longstocking is absolutely a case of I-read-this-too-late-in-life. This is NOT the kind of story my mom read to me as a child. I was too headstrong already, I didn’t need her reading about a ginger-haired nine year old who lifted up horses and refused to go to school. Wise move, mom, wise move. I am at somewhat of a loss as to how to review this, to be honest. There is a cuteness to it, a toughness too BUT I can’t turn off pretend-mom brain. I can’t help but th
This is NOT the kind of story my mom read to me as a child.
I was too headstrong already, I didn’t need her reading about a ginger-haired nine year old who lifted up horses and refused to go to school.
There is a cuteness to it, a toughness too BUT I can’t turn off pretend-mom brain.
I can’t help but think this is just such a poor story to read a child.
For another thing she plays a game of chase with cops (Kids, don’t try THIS at home).
I just don’t know.
“I have never tried that before, so I think I should definitely be able to do that.”  This one is so nostalgic for me. I grew up having my mom read the books to me and I used to watch the movies all the time as well. Pippi Longstockingis a classic that everyone should enjoy at least once in their life. It's about a young girl who lives in a large house with a monkey and a horse, she also happens to be "the strongest girl in the world." Beside Pippi live two other children, a brother and a sist
I grew up having my mom read the books to me and I used to watch the movies all the time as well.
Pippi Longstockingis a classic that everyone should enjoy at least once in their life.
It's about a young girl who lives in a large house with a monkey and a horse, she also happens to be "the strongest girl in the world." Beside Pippi live two other children, a brother and a sister and together they get into all sorts of fun adventures.
This book is so charming, and completely hilarious.
I love Pippi's sense of adventure and her innocence.
She wants to see Pippi for some reason, and then she starts saying that it would be better if she were in a children's home.
But I do sometimes wonder if Astrid Lindgren left a sealed packet of papers for her literary executor, with strict instructions not to open it until 50 years after her death..._________________________________________Apropos the Långstrump/Salander connection: last night, we watched the second Millennium film, Flickan som lekte med elden, and noticed that the letterbox on Lisbeth's door says "V.
Of course, this doesn't necessarily mean that Astrid Lindgren would have approved._________________________________________My older son Jonathan, who's an autistic-spectrum movie buff, had an interesting question about Pippi the other day.
Very sweet, whimsical children's book! I enjoyed reading it to my younger brothers. They usually won't sit still long enough for me to read anything to them, but they actually were asking ME to read it to them! So it was a win-win in that area! If you're looking for a good "role model" children's book, this isn't really it, but it was fun, and there certainly wasn't anything bad in it.
“Pippi Longstocking” is a popular children’s book by Astrid Lindgren and it details the wild adventures of an unusual girl named Pippi Longstocking.
“Pippi Longstocking” is clearly one of the best children’s books ever written that children will enjoy over and over again!Pippi Longstocking is a little girl who lives in an old house called Villa Villekulla and she lives with her pet monkey named Mr. Nilsson and her horse that she rides everywhere to town with.
Review originally posted HERE"Pipi Longstalking" is an easy read and I can see why kids enjoy it. Pipi is funny and different and draws little children out of their normal, every-day lives with her wacky adventures.BUT, it has no plot and, therefore, is not very attractive to adult readers. It's really a series of short stories that have very little plot or meaning to them in themselves. About 75 percent through, I started just skimming the stories because they were plotless and all very similar
Pipi is funny and different and draws little children out of their normal, every-day lives with her wacky adventures.BUT, it has no plot and, therefore, is not very attractive to adult readers.
It's really a series of short stories that have very little plot or meaning to them in themselves.
In my opinion, well-written children's novels appeal to readers of ALL ages, but are appropriate for children.Pipi is supposed to be charming, and is somewhat, but she's also an annoying kid who won't behave and never faces the consequences for it.
I have a memory that having rapaciously foraged my way through the children’s section, I was given an adult library ticket before my time.
In spite of my impatience for the adult section, I adored my time with the children’s library, and at the pinnacle of all children’s books that I loved was the Pippi Longstocking series.
The chasm between me then and me now is seemingly unbridgeable… I remember how much I loved you though.
I remember that.A GR friend has just read this book to her daughter, and it made me think about that too.
Confesso ainda que a Pipi não faz parte do meu imaginário de criança, apesar de conhecer o nome desde sempre, só fiquei a conhecer o universo quando os meus filhos, há um par de anos, andaram a ver a série na televisão.Dito isto, a minha aproximação à obra foi neutra em termos nostálgicos, embora influenciada pela respeitabilidade que a lista lhe confere.
Tendo o texto sido escrito para um público com 7 anos, dificilmente poderia sentir muito a leitura, por isso procurei mais compreender de que era feita e como comunicava com o seu público-alvo.
But, I did keep smiling; it’s just that my rather loud laugh no longer ricocheted off the trees and mountains around me as I read outdoors on the deck.Like children throughout the last 64 years, since Lindgren first cast her character onto the page and into the world, today’s sophisticated child will likely still be highly entertained by “Pippilotta Delicatessa Windowshade Mackrelmint Efraim’s Daughter Longstocking, daughter of Captain Efraim Longstocking, formerly the Terror of the Sea, now a cannibal king” as Pippi explains to the teacher when she decides to go to school – for a day.
Adoro ler essas histórias que me lembram os livros que eu lia na minha infância. .Pippi uma garotinha sapeca, mas inocente ao mesmo tempo, que tem nos encantado por gerações.
(Plenty of American grownups are weak on this concept, and this national chauvinism is not, in my opinion, making the world a better place.)The passage continues, and I promise I’m quoting it at length for a good reason:The tramps thought Pippi was too little to tell time, so without another word they went out again.“I don’t demand that you say ‘tack’” [thanks in Swedish], shouted Pippi after them, “but you could at least make an effort and say ‘tick.’ You haven’t even as much sense as a clock has.
Pippi Longstocking, nine years old, believes her mother is in heaven watching her, and her father on an island and has become the king of the cannibals.
I'll always come out on top."I do not know how I would have read this when I was still a child.
So amidst Pippi's adventures at the back of my mind are what adults would often not fail to see: she's alone, just nine years old and her parents are dead.But goodness and innocence triumph over danger, rejection and loneliness.
We don't have to worry about being good, trusting and innocent.
Jeder kennt Pippi. Man brauch hier nichts rezensieren.
Childhood memories of Sunday afternoon movies on channel 41 are dancing in my head. Pippy was my favorite second only to Shirley Temple. What adventures she had-keeping a horse on the porch; rescuing children from a burning building; outsmarting thieves and nine pin playing ghosts! And she always gets it over the adults. I think my favorite chapter was when she decided she must go to school so she can have a Christmas vacation. The student of my worst nightmares
When I was a kid, my mom used to read this before going to bed. And we would laugh so much that we couldn't keep ourselves from going on and on. ah, this was a good book. I would love to re-read it when the chance arises.
I read this for the Book Riot Read Harder Challenge task to read a children's classic published before 1980. I can completely see why so many children have loved this. Pippi is a very cool, completely anarchic character - she displays a complete disregard for convention and yet always does the right thing and is kind to a fault. Deservedly a children's classic!
So I decided to remedy that all around by reading the first book aloud to my kids, and of course I had to have the fully illustrated edition with pictures by Lauren Child, because of our fondness for Charlie and Lola.The consensus?
The kids thought Pippi was hilarious, and the pictures are perfection.
I love the fact that each chapter is a separate story, perfect for reading aloud at bedtime.
We are eager to read more books about Pippi, though sad that they aren't all illustrated by Child.I've also just discovered that Mio, My Son and Seacrow Island are being reprinted by the New York Review of Books, and I'm excited to get those.
