https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/857445.Officer_Buckle_and_Gloria
Recommended, especially since so many recent picture books seem to often be primarily issue and problem heavy, and sometimes, even with the importance of necessary didactic considerations, fun and humour are required, are sorely needed for children and by children (and that even with educational demands, didactic information can be incorporated and perhaps even should be incorporated with humour and fun, in delightful and laugh-out-loud dosages, as has been brilliantly achieved and demonstrated with and by Officer Buckle and Gloria).
The opening bright yellow pages with stars showing Gloria acting out her simple messages for staying safe are incredibly funny.
Officer Buckle bores his audiences to sleep and the children listing to his safety tip assemblies, are not paying attention to him.
As she is acting out -- behind Officer Buckle's back -- the safety tips he is reciting, the audience of children sit up to listen and soon are laughing uproariously.
Children will love this story and will most likely hear and remember at least some of the safety tips.
A Caldecott award winner that I wasn't that impressed with. The pictures must have won because of the dog's tricks but overall I've seen so much better illustrations. The story was cute, but only kept my 5 yr old somewhat interested. My preschoolers were completely bored even though I continually tried to pull them in with stuff about the dog, it just didn't help. Not one we'll be reading again.
Officer Buckle is boring students everyday with his safety talks.
While Officer Buckle is up before the audience, Gloria is play acting whatever Safety Tip is being described.
Of course Officer Buckle has no idea what his side-kick is doing behind him, and he thinks people are happy to hear his Safety Tip instructions.
Officer Buckle decides that he's not needed in this act, so he bows out and Gloria begins to go to the school assemblies by herself, much to the dismay of the students.The text and pictures in this book are hilarious.
I highly recommend this book if you want a good laugh!
Funny, charming and wise. I love picture books like this, where the illustrations really help to tell the story (rather than simply provide a visual of what the text has described). Gloria is so adorable! Love, love, love all the illustrations. Love all the safety rules and haven't even read all of Officer Buckle's post-it-notes yet as my son asked for an immediate reread and then his imagination whisked us off to other things. Love the little details (the banana peel emblem, haha!) Love the final safety tip! I'm thinking of adding it to our permanent collection.
Officer Buckle is a passionate advocate for safety and for following rules. The problem is that his presentations can lack pizzazz. That is until one day he's paired up with a smart pooch called Gloria and then things really take off. This book is a wonderful read aloud for older kids who have a longer attention span and the book's takeaway will resonate with an older age group as well.Find Officer Buckle and Gloria at the Westminster Public Library!
Great book - one of our girls' favorites! It's a fun story about how a dog livens up a police officer's safety briefs. We loved the cute illustrations and I appreciated the inclusion of wise safety tips in the story (without being too obviously preachy!)This book was featured in the October 2016 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
This book is cute, and while the illustrations aren't stellar, the storyline carries the tale.Officer Buckle has the task of giving presentations regarding safety to various schools. Bored, the students rarely pay attention. One day, Officer Buckle brings a dog named Gloria with him. While he is giving his talk, Gloria is in the background going through the motions of what he is saying.Suddenly, the students look up and listen. Alone, Officer Buckle's presentation was non inspiring, but with Gloria the children laugh and listen.
This is about a police officer whose dog helps him give safety tip talks to students. It is cute, but not amazing. I am surprised it won the Caldecott medal. It must have been a slow year for picture books... Although I will say that this is probably one of the most child-friendly and "normal" of the Caldecotts that I've read!
One of my nephews, the one who liked to make up safety rules, would have wanted this book on his shelves. (He liked to invent jokes and make rules that sounded silly but were reasonable, such as "Never share your lunch with a bear.")I like anything that raises kids' awareness of safety, AND provides an opportunity to consider some of the reasons for rules.
4* art3* storyIt's a funny one. Squirt didn't get it at first because he was jumping on the bed instead of looking at the pictures. It's hard to tell if he's listening sometimes, but he gets very upset if I stop reading...
I really enjoyed this book. Officer Buckle teaches children about safety and Gloria teaches Officer Buckle an equally important lesson.
Still have this book, and is VERY entertaining for younger readers
New York: Putnam's.Officer Buckle is a clumsy police officer who puts together safety tips and presents them to the local schools.
Then, the police station got a new police dog Gloria, who accompanied Officer Buckle to the Safety Talks.
She was a hit because she would act out the safety tip behind Officer Buckles back and he didn’t know.
The story does not use words to tell you that the police dog is acting out Officer Buckles safety tips, it shows you in the illustrations.
Some of the pages have multiple illustrations, which makes it easier and more fun for the reader to follow the direction of the story.
As his duty, he visits Napville school and shares all of his safety tips to the students, however, no one pays attention and all sleep.
When Officer Buckle brought along the police department's newly recruited dog, Gloria, everything began to change.
At the police department, Officer Buckle received many thank-you letters and after that, he continued to visit many other schools sharing his safety tips with Gloria.
After the tragic accidents, Officer Buckle received letters from the students involved in the accident and he realized that he always needs his buddy, Gloria.This is one of my favorite books from my childhood.
Officer Buckle gave very boring presentations to elementary schools, until he met Gloria the dog.
She was able to keep the children engaged while Buckle gave his safety tips; now the kids would actually listen.The story shows readers that teamwork makes a dream work.
This shows that your words are important, no matter how old you are; you can make a difference in someone's life.The story also tells kids to not devalue themselves just because someone else gets more attention.
The book shows kids to not be upset if the popular kid gets more attention than them, which is a very important message to send kids.
This is book does teach about some safety rules but also focuses the importance of team work to help accomplish the main goal, which in this case was teaching safety to young children.
CREATIVE EXPERIENCE:I would introduce safety week with help from a puppet, like a dog named "MacGruff" and we, as a team, would teach on safety rules the children could remember to use when they are at home on one day.
MacGruff, the dog and I would outline some of the safety rules and teach on its importance and use a child in our examples, as visual aid to go over the right and wrong ways of doing these safety rules.
Officer Buckle becomes very popular, and without knowing of Gloria's tricks behind him, he is busy beyond belief with all the success from presenting his safety tips.
Then one day, Officer Buckle figures out that the only reason he has become popular is Gloria, and is left to believe people still did not care about his safety tips.
This hurts him and is no longer Gloria’s partner; but he misses her.The lines in the illustration are thin, but they clearly depict the pictures in the story for the reader to easily follow.
Gloria turned the pages with silly acts as officer buckle shared his safety tips, they became a hit and after that his tips were heard.
Officer Buckle is a silly children’s book with lots of vibrant pictures very well illustrated.
The illustrations in these books where left with a lot of blank space around the very vibrant illustrations but it worked because it allowed the eyes to catch the picture and still be able to read the words.
The illustrations also showed great use of flow the pages worked one after another without leaving too big of a blank.
Office Buckle & Gloria is a cute children's book I've never seen before.
He takes Gloria with him the next time he talks about his tips and it is a huge hit.
But what he does not know is that the reason his tips/show is becoming more and more popular is because of Gloria and not him and he finally discovers this while watching the news.I also liked the illustrations of this book.
It could be some wavy grass that Officer Buckle and Gloria are standing on with nothing but a white background.
Overall the illustrations from this book complimented the text creating a good story.
In the book, we see him go to the school where the children are bored out of their minds.
Then one day Officer Buckle gets Gloria; his new partner.
Officer Buckle becomes very popular; he is busy beyond belief with presenting his safety tips.
This story is all about the friendship that develops between Officer Buckle and Gloria.
They become a pair that is inseparable throughout the book.
Then one day, Officer Buckle figures out that the only reason he has become popular is Gloria; that people still did not care about his safety tips.
Summary:This book is about Officer Buckle and his sidekick Gloria.
At the beginning of the book, Officer Buckle goes to speak about school safety, but everyone falls asleep.
Officer Buckle becomes upset and decides he is finished with speeches, but when Gloria goes by herself the entire audience falls asleep, and so does she!
A big accident happens at the school, and Officer Buckle receives multiple letters to remind him that Gloria and himself are best when they are together.Evaluation:I gave this book 4 out of 5 stars because the plot was very engaging for the reader.
While the text told us how the children laughed during the speech, the pictures showed us how the Officer had no idea what was going on behind him, providing a silly image.
Without the pictures of Gloria doing the tricks the book wouldn't really make sense at all because why would the children be hooting and hollering at Officer Buckle’s safety tips unless something funny was going on behind him?
I would recommend using this book in a kindergarten to second grade classroom because it teaches a few safety tips while also providing a comedic story about a dog with a sense of humor.
Officer Buckle is a police officer that presents safety tips to local school children.
The students and staff do not pay attention to his safety tips.
During Officer Buckle’s safety talks, Gloria begins acting out the safety tips behind Office Buckle.
The students and staff also begin to listen to and follow his safety tips.
Officer Buckle ends up quitting his presentations when he finds out that Gloria is the real “star.” Officer Buckle has amazing illustrations, and Gloria is hilarious!
The illustrations do not stick to a solid picture, but sometimes hang off the edges of the pictures in a unique illustrative style.
While the students were watching Officer Buckle and Gloria on stage, they could see how Gloria acted out the different rules.
As you read the book, you can notice that more and more of the students are wearing the badge of a crossed out banana peel.
This is the same badge Officer Buckle wears on his right arm.
This symbolizes how Officer Buckle’s rules are becoming more popular and familiar to the students throughout the story because of Gloria.
I thought that this story was a neat way to introduce students to safety rules and the importance of them.
I think kids understand that feeling too - the fear that no one is listening to the important things they have to say.
Officer Buckle realizes it’s not him but Gloria who is so popular.
Thankfully, though, the students at the schools recognize it’s the partnership that works, not Officer Buckle on his own, or Gloria on her own, and everyone comes out feeling important .
I love kids’ books with adult main characters, because they show that all people, regardless of age, face challenges, and it they help kids see the adults in their lives as real people, not just authority figures, or folks doing a job.
This book is great for demonstrating empathy, and also reinforcing good listening skills.
The beginning and end pages are filled with safety badges of Gloria, the dog, participating in unsafe acts.
Before the story even begins, the reader has an idea of what the story line could include and that one of the main characters could be a dog.
The illustrations follow the story line of the book making the plot more concrete.
Along with the illustrations, the lessons taught in this book made me love it more.
It teaches children some safety lessons and describes to them why it is important to have a friend you can trust and lean on for support.
Officer Buckle visits the local school to teach the students about important safety lessons.
One day he decides to bring along the new police dog, Gloria, with him to the school.
While he gives his usual speech, Gloria acts it out in the background and quickly captures the attention of the audience.
Officer Buckle is clueless of her antics, but pleased that everyone is finally listening.
The duo becomes quite popular and is asked to do their presentation at several schools.
A camera crew tapes them one day and Officer Buckle soon discovers what Gloria has been doing.
Young readers will love the fact that they are in on the joke in this picture book.
Well-meaning Officer Buckle can't get anyone to listen to his safety talks, but once he is joined by a canine companion, Gloria, everyone sits up attentively, and his performances are met with wild applause.
When he decides to quit giving talks, no one pays attention to Gloria either.
The cartoonish illustrations will make many readers smile as theyenjoy the expressions on the faces of the characters.
My favorite illustration features the two watching the news with Gloria giving a sheepish look to Officer Buckle as her antics are revealed.
Officer Buckle is a police officer that travels around the neighborhood giving safety presentations to local schools to ensure safety.
This story revolves around Officer Buckle receiving a police dog; Gloria, which accompanies Officer Buckle to his safety presentations.
Officer Buckle has a reputation for boring presentations until Gloria served as an entertaining visual to his presentations by acting out safety procedures.
Unfortunately, Officer Buckle finds out that Gloria was the real reason for his popularity.
Gloria is accented in bold along with pivotal moments throughout the story.
It’s a great angle to keep the reader engaged throughout the story!
