https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/797635.The_Palace_of_Dreams
Η πραγματικότητα που κανείς δεν μπορεί να δώσει πραγματικό σχήμα σκιάζεται απο το μύθο, την ίδια στιγμή που φωτίζεται απο τη λάμψη του ολοκληρωτικού ελέγχου της σκέψης.
Το Παλάτι των Ονείρων που ίσως είναι η άβυσσος και η κόλαση της δίκης του ψυχής, επιβιώνει με την επιβεβλημένη ή επιλεκτική στρατηγική της σιωπής,της απομόνωσης, της μυστικότητας, της απόγνωσης.
Ο Μαρκ-Άλεμ διορίζεται στο υπουργείο των ονείρων και πολύ γρήγορα ίσως λόγω της εξέχουσας πολιτικής και οικογενειακής καταγωγής του προάγεται στα ανώτατα διοικητικά κλιμάκια.
Μια διφορούμενη γραφή σε ένα απο τα πιο λαμπρά μυθιστορήματα του ολοκληρωτισμού, που δεν αποσαφηνίζεται ποτέ αν είναι υπέρ ή κατά αυτού.
Mark-Alem finds himself lost not only in the corridors of the Palace, but also in the hour upon hour day to day work of selecting and interpreting dreams.
As Mark-Alem wanders around his work, usually trying to find a door and usually on the wrong floor to find it, he discovers that sometimes the dreamers are brought in for further questioning about a dream they submitted.
In 1980 when the Palace of Dreams is published the book is immediately banned.
Τι είναι λοιπόν το Παλάτι των Ονείρων; Ο Ισμαήλ Κανταρέ γράφει ένα βιβλίο έχοντας σαν βασικές του επιρροές το 1984 του Όργουελ, την Δίκη και γενικά το έργο του Κάφκα και την Θεία Κωμωδία του Δάντη.
Ο Μαρκ Άλεμ είναι ένας νεαρός άντρας, γόνος μια μεγάλης και ιστορικής οικογένειας της Αλβανίας, ο οποίος διορίζεται ως υπάλληλος στο Παλάτι των Ονείρων.
(στο σύμπαν του Κάφκα υπάρχει ο Πύργος, του Όργουελ τα Υπουργεία Αλήθειας και Προπαγάνδας και στον ακαθόριστο χωροχρόνο του Κανταρέ το Παλάτι των Ονείρων).
That is a brilliant idea, masterfully developed by Ismail Kadaré.Mark-Alem comes from a powerful Albanian family, the Quiprili (Köprülü), and his relatives decide that he should apply for a job at one of the most influential institutions of the Ottoman Empire - Tabir Saray, the Palace of Dreams.
Dreams are believed to foretell important political events, thus being of utmost importance to the Empire.We follow Mark-Alem's journey through the mysterious Palace of Dreams, with its nightmarish passages where he usually gets lost, with the thousands of dreams stacked away in its huge underground archive, with the kafkian beaurocracy and the strange happenings that make people paranoid.
Mark-Alem, integrante de la poderosa familia Qyprilli, ingresa a trabajar al Palacio de los sueños, organismo que estudia los sueños de todos los ciudadanos del Imperio Otomano, para descubrir augurios para el Estado. Padece atrapado en laberintos interminables, perdido por los pasillos del edificio, o en su tarea de estudio de los sueños; todo parece disparatado, pero lo angustia saber que tiene un sentido que se le escapa. Más allá de la metáfora sobre el filoso sistema de vigilancia de los Estados totalitarios, la novela destaca por su calidad literaria, con momentos de atmósfera kafkianas.
Upravo sam pokušala da čitam ovo srpsko izdanje... Da, pokušala, i odustala... Mislila sam u pitanju je prevodilac početnik... Nažalost, u pitanju je prevodilac koji je očevidno upropastio već dosta knjiga albanskih autora na području Jugoslavije... :( Dobar lektor bi ublažio štetu i malo popeglao tekst da makar može da se čita... Bruka i sramota za Samizdat! Već kod druge rečenice sam se zagrcnula pošteno... Preostaje mi da se dočepam ovog autora u engleskom ili francuskom prevodu pa da uživam kô čovek u čitanju... :(Odavno ne naleteh na ovakvu krš kombinaciju prevoda i "lekture" :(
Mark-Alem starts at a mid-level position because his family is second in the land only to the Sultan (the book is set in the Ottoman Empire, but this time period is of little consequence).
After more of the Palace is revealed, Mark-Alem goes to work one day and finds himself promoted into the division of Interpretation.
Mark-Alem feels his family may know why, but he is left in the dark.
He discovers that the dream he Selected and Interpreted was a part of the Master Dream and predicted a power struggle between his family and the Sultan.
Mark-Alem wonders if he were planted by his family to Select and Interpret the Master Dream.
Mark-Alem, apadrinado por su poderoso tio El-Visir, entra a trabajar en uno de los más importantes, sino el más, órganos de control y seguridad, el Tabir Sarai; en donde, gracias a las oficinas de recepción, archivo, selección e interpretación, son recaudados y monitoreados los sueños de los ciudadanos, con el objeto de mantener la seguridad del estado.La realidad en la que Kadaré ha puesto sus escenas me ha producido una sensación de despersonalización.
Hay muchas cosas que se me escapan, es evidente en el libro más alusiones a Albania, y que no alcanzo a abordar por desconocimiento de la historia y la actualidad de este país.El Palacio de los Sueños para mi representó un ejercicio literario.
António Botto (1897 – 1959) dramaturgo, contista e poeta, nasceu na Concavada, uma pequena freguesia rural do concelho de Abrantes; foi um dos mais polémicos intelectuais portugueses, amigo de Fernando Pessoa, funcionário público acabou demitido devido à sua homossexualidade assumida – apesar de viver com uma fiel e dedicada companheira Carminda Rodrigues.
Não posso deixar de elogiar o magnífico edifício, a sua adaptação e todas as suas iniciativas, destacando a Biblioteca Itinerante de Abrantes que percorre todas as freguesias rurais - e, sobretudo, o espólio bibliográfico que possui.E não tem “preço” poder encontrar um livro editado em 1992 (ainda que nunca requisitado) do escritor albanês Ismail Kadaré ”O Palácio dos Sonhos” (um título que é também uma analogia perfeita com a Biblioteca Municipal António Botto).
Set in the late 19th century Ottoman Empire--I figured this out from several subtle hints in the novel--along with elements from the late 20th century, this novel tells of a young man, Mark Alem, who is employed by the Palace of Dreams, the author's surreal intelligence agency, where dreams from all over the empire are collected, sorted, interpreted, with an eye to discovering which might be a "Master-Dream" pointing to a possible coup or other upheaval in the State.
Mark Alem starts out in the Selection Department and passes along a file containing what he feels might be a possibly incriminating dream: a wasteland filled with garbage, a musical instrument, a rampaging bull, and a bridge.
Το κράτος ενσαρκώνεται στο "Ταμπίρ Σεράι", το Παλάτι των Ονείρων, μια τεράστια γραφειοκρατική μηχανή που εξασκει την απόλυτη παρακολουθηση των πολιτών - καταγράφει και αναλύει τα όνειρα τους με σκοπό να εντοπίσει πιθανές απειλές για την ασφάλεια της Αυτοκρατορίας.
Ο Κανταρέ περιγράφει πολύ παραστατικά την εφιαλτική, σουρεαλιστική ατμόσφαιρα που επικρατεί στο Παλάτι μέσα από τα μάτια του Μαρκ Άλεμ, γόνος επιφανούς οικογενείας, ο οποίος προσλαμβάνεται στο Ταμπίρ Σεράι και σύντομα ανακαλύπτει τις φοβερές επιπτώσεις της απόλυτης δύναμης του πάνω στους αθώους πολίτες.
Πάντως το τέλος δεν ήταν αυτό που περίμενα και κάπως με απογοήτευσε, θα το χαρακτήριζα αντικλιμακτικό.
Mark-Alem, scion of the powerful Quprili family, is given a job at a prestigious institution: the Tabir Sarrail, or Palace of Dreams.
Mark-Alem's job is bureaucratic yet bizarre, and cloaked in so much mystery that at first, he doesn't even know what he's supposed to be doing, or the way around the vast Palace, or what all the oddly-named departments do.
Having become accustomed to its strange ways, Mark-Alem finds real life comparatively insipid: 'the whole world seemed to have lost all its colour, as if after a long illness...
The Palace of Dreams like most of Kadare's work is political.
Yet, Kadare manages to keep you interested the whole time with the calm narrative,mellifluous prose and of course what he does with the topic of dream analysis and interpretation.
Hypnos himself, the Greek god of sleep, couldn't have known more than he did about dreams."
Imaginem se de repente houvesse uma instituição dos sonhos. Um palácio criado por um sultão que tenta evitar golpes de estado e controlar o império. Pessoas encarregadas de seleccionar, interpretar e controlar os sonhos. Todo o livro é um enrolar de acontecimentos que levam a conspirações e narrativas fantásticas sobre a ascensão de um jovem albanês. " O palácio de sonhos" é uma obra que no início se estranha e no fim ficamos maravilhados!
Anzitutto resistendo alla facile suggestione del libro enciclopedico che in mille e più pagine costruisca l'intero universo parallelo in cui questa idea sia verosimile.
Poi resistendo alla tentazione di moraleggiare (male massimo dei romanzieri inefficaci) e di simboleggiare troppo (per quanto, parlando di sogni, il simbolico non sia del tutto evitabile).Poi sgusciando dalla facile epica antitirannica.
A young distaff scion of a family powerful enough to rival the leaders of Ottoman Empire is given a job in the Palace of Dreams.
The power struggles of the mighty, are not discussed or understood even among the intimates of the participants, but are palpable throughout the empire and very keenly felt at the Palace of Dreams.
Kadare demonstrates how the fear of the unknown paralyzes bystanders and how participants keep everyone in the dark.While this book is over 15 years old, I had not heard of it or its author.
Mark-Alem are insa de trecut prin doua iaduri: unul interior dar si unul public – fiind un membru al familiei Quiprilii, care are un rol important in structurile imperiului.Asadar Kadare reuseste sa lege elementele fantastice de o baza istorica – statul Albanez a fost sub dominatie Otomana pana in 1912, iar familia Quiprilii (sau Köprülü) a dat imperiului mai multi viziri si generali de-a lungul istoriei.Palatul Viselor are premisele unui roman magic, insa totusi nu reuseste sa mearga pana la capat.
قصر الأحلام آخر كتاب لكاداريه، أقرؤه بحزن، يمكنني أن أعود لقراءة هذا الساحر الألباني دوماً، ولكن لذة الاكتشاف ولت، ما لم يحصل العجوز على جائزة نوبل وهو مرشح دائم لها، عندها ربما تلتفت له دور النشر العربية، وتنشر كل أعماله، وخاصة (جنرال الجيش الميت) التي يقصد فيها جنرال إيطالي ألبانيا ليستعيد عظام الجنود الإيطاليين الذي قتلوا هناك في الحرب العالمية الثانية، أو (أبريل المكسور) التي تعالج موضوعاً ألبانياً صميماً يدور حول الثأر، وغيرها من الروايات التي يزيد عددها على 15 عملاً، أقدر أنها عظيمة كعظمة ما قرأته له.
قصر الأحلام ليس مؤسسة ناعمة، تتعامل مع الأحلام والملفات والأوراق، لا، فكل من يثير حلمه الاهتمام، يتم جره للتحقيق معه، هناك حيث تقبع زنازين مرعبة، يتم امتصاص الحالم المنكوب، واستخراج كل ما لديه، بحيث يتحول حلمه البسيط الذي دوِن بعجل على نصف صفحة، ملفاً ضخماً من مئات الصفحات، هذا قبل أن تزهق روح المسكين.
The Palace of Dreams incorporates the traits of all powerful secret institutions—one cannot help think of the Sigurimi, the Albanian Secret Police of the Communist era—as well as the characteristics of an almost Totemic figure, a Kafkaesque Castle whose rules no one can figure out.
Thus, at the end of the novel, one of the dreams that the main character, Mark-Alem Quprili, who works at the Palace, sorted and filed at the beginning of the novel, makes an unexpected appearance, literally acting upon the present and causing the drama the reader has been anticipating all along.
The powerful family wich the main character has is also very interesting.The atmosphere of the book is dark, with a touch of thrill...
Mark Alem, the main character, is always afraid, scared, in the beginning is easy to feel pity for him, afterwards everything changes and several issues have lack of sense, the so fine descriptions and well writen pages turn into a precipitated finish by Kadare, just like he didn't feel to keep writing this book, like if he got bored of it and didn't have the feeling of gifting a good end to it.
Why some writers express the plenitude of their talent while resisting a totalitarian mode?
I bought his new book (that I did not like) and I had told him that in any event, his best book was "The Palace of dream".
A totalitarian state wants to be all to control its inhabitants.
One attends the supreme stage of totalitarianism or a state wants to control dreamed.Itis a remarkably written tale, a mastepiece of the political book of the same level as Orwell.
It is one of my preferred books Since his exile, I do not find at Kadaré of books with the same level.
I love love love this novel, it's definitely one of my fave ever! I admire novels that talk about dreams and their interpretation. And because I believe in conspiracy, this even made the novel greater. I loved several quotes, the language was very poetic and wise. I truly admire Kadare for this masterpiece!
This dystopic novel in some ways works much better than George Orwell's 1984, which had Gregory Zamyatin's "We" as its predecessor. It is a more original work than 1984 and is delightfully written. A powerful and important critique of totalitarian regimes. Kadare, an Albanian, wrote the Palace of Dreams as a critique of Tito's Yugoslavia, but it can be applied to all hegemonic states.
http://blog.mihaisavu.com/2009/06/26/...Ismail Kadare este unul din cei mai mari scriitori europeni, cunoscut pentru romanele sale alegorico-politice.
Din zecile de mii de vise este ales în fiecare săptămână Marele Vis care ajunge la sultan, iar acesta ia decizii politice pe baza acelui vis.
Deşi ipoteza poate părea democratică prin “consultarea” poporului, în final un singur vis al unui singur om este selectat pentru a deveni Marele Vis. Nivelurile ierarhice superioare din Tabir Saray au puteri atât de mari, încât pot "fabrica" vise pentru a influenţa deciziile politice ale sultanului.
Het keizerrijk waarin de roman zich afspeelt is een afschrikwekkende totalitaire staat met bijzonder griezelige trekjes.
Die mensen met het boze oog konden door iedereen aangegeven worden!Via zijn invloedrijke Albanese familie krijgt de jonge man Ebu Qerim een baan in het Tabir Serail, een imponerend gebouw.
Op basis van zo’n droom worden er dan bijvoorbeeld mensen gearresteerd en gedood omdat ze een gevaar zouden zijn voor de staat of de soeverein.
Surrealistische passages zijn er o.a. wanneer Ebu een bezoek brengt aan het Archief, met tienduizenden dossiers vol geconserveerde dromen.
Zijn familie verwacht dat hij als een soort spion optreedt maar hij weet niet wat hij daarmee aan moet.
Neat book, my second Kadare.
خيال عظيم وأجواء مرعبة وخانقة بالفعل
I lost it with only thirty-eight pages left, which was an oddly fitting end to what turned out to be an odd experience with an odd book.
Remove after remove after hyperreal remove -- both within The Palace of Dreams and without -- had taken me so far away from Ismail Kadaré's original intent that I imagined myself, impossibly, about to stumble upon some truth that was waiting there just for me, and tucked away in a corner of my mind I think I've dreamt what that truth must be.But I lost the book, and mow I don't think I want it back.
I have a feeling the ending I imagined means more to me than the actual ending of ever could, and to read the last thirty-eight pages of Kadaré's tale would taint my experience.
The novel allegorises a totalitarian police state though a bizarre, nightmarish beaurocracy in the form of the 'Tabir Sarrail' - the Palace of Dreams.
Mark-Alem gets lost countless times while working in the Palace, as he tries to navigate his way between the various departments and sections.
After half an hour it seemed to him he was back where he started from.' And yet with infinite patience, or simply a lack of will to question the status quo, Mark-Alem progresses his career through the ranks of the palace.
So you have a huge palace in the centre of the capital where thousands of people work on these dreams, selecting them, analysing them, and every Friday presenting one Master Dream to the sultan so he knows what's going on in his empire and can make decisions.So you start working there as the runt of the litter of a powerful family, and you have no idea what you're doing, but that's OK because you can always look at old interpretations of dreams so you know what to write.
Some rumours even say that the master dreams are completely fake.
