https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40238.Cracking_India
I'd never have read this book if it wasn't for what this idiot did: http://www.montanasnews.com/articles....Basically it was a book in the local high school's IB (International Baccalaureate) curriculum.
One of the mothers decided it was pornographic and demanded the school remove it from their curriculum.
So, being the Indian Porn aficionado that I am (is there such a thing?
There must be), I trotted off immediately to the local porn purveyor and picked up a copy.
Then I read it, waiting for the porn to happen.
Unless you are looking for Indian Pornography.
Though it is arguably one of the best, if not the best work, on this theme, it is still bitter to read despite its excellence, or maybe because of it.
I feel people outside the subcontinent can marvel at the sublime writing here more, can appreciate it more as they should, I mean that part of history is still very much hard and painful to read about.
The movie highlighted a period often ignored and not looked into much deeply, but it is a fascinating piece of history that continues to teach us more about ourselves than we'd care to admit.
But 24-year-old Anum can very clearly appreciate the importance of reading any and all fiction related to the 1947 partition - an event so shocking and traumatic that its repercussions still resonate in the here and now in both Pakistan and India (and of course Kashmir, but that is a topic for another day).For those of you who don’t exactly know what the partition was, (so basically most people who aren’t Pakistani or Indian – if you are either of these two, skip this whole paragraph) the summary goes: before 1947 there was one huge land area called the Indian subcontinent, ruled by these group of power-hungry, eventually-decadent rulers called the Mughal Emperors (think Taj Mahal, Akbar the Great, all those cool architectural wonders in India), who then lost power to the British colonial powers, who went around wrecking all kinds of havoc on the land, eventually causing the people in the area to want to kick the British people out (demand for self-independence, right to rule, lots of other important historical stuff that really is more interesting than our history books make them sound).
But 24-year-old Anum can very clearly appreciate the importance of reading any and all fiction related to the 1947 partition - an event so shocking and traumatic that its repercussions still resonate in the here and now in both Pakistan and India (and of course Kashmir, but that is a topic for another day).For those of you who don’t exactly know what the partition was, (so basically most people who aren’t Pakistani or Indian – if you are either of these two, skip this whole paragraph) the summary goes: before 1947 there was one huge land area called the Indian subcontinent, ruled by these group of power-hungry, eventually-decadent rulers called the Mughal Emperors (think Taj Mahal, Akbar the Great, all those cool architectural wonders in India), who then lost power to the British colonial powers, who went around wrecking all kinds of havoc on the land, eventually causing the people in the area to want to kick the British people out (demand for self-independence, right to rule, lots of other important historical stuff that really is more interesting than our history books make them sound).
Ice-Candy-Man reminds you of Ann Frank’s Diary, only it’s based on a tragedy closer home: the horrors of communal atrocities during the India-Pakistan partition.
Sidhwa brings parity in the subject by weaving in Lenny’s visit to her servant’s Muslim village Pir Pindo, which comes under post-partition India, while Lahore forms part of Pakistan.
All in all, Ice-Candy-Man is an interesting read, a gripping tale that transports you to pre-India partition era and makes you feel sorry for the loss of a beautiful world that could have been.
This book was unsuccessfully challenged in DeLand, Florida, so of course, I went out and read it right way.
This book is violent.
This was a hard book.
I really don't know much about this, so I had to look a lot of things up.
The writing style, while beautiful and fitting, isn't an easy read.
This would be a wonderful book to teach and read in school.
It also really puts current India/Pakistani border clashes and politics in perspective.If you don't know a lot about partition, make sure you have access to an encyclopedia-- I had to look a lot of things up.
Bapsi Sidhwa's novel is an incredibly moving account of the partition of India.
I love the narration through the point of view of the young Lenny whose innocence is cracked along with her country.
I think Sidhwa does a terrific job of illustrating the horror that colonialism leaves even in its aftermath.
I especially love the contrast that Sidhwa shows between how relations among Indians were before and after partition and clearly points the finger at the British Empire's efforts to divide the country.
The unfolding of this narrative, however, through Lenny's coming to understand the way her country breaks apart is what makes it such a tremendous story.
Brutal. Honest. Raw. Visceral etching of human behavior.
Not only is the writing very vague and ambiguous (leaving you with a lot of '???'), but I also don't see how this is written from a child's perspective.
The kind of observations Lenny makes, the very writing and use of difficult words, the actions this 'innocent' child does.I mean, everyone has sex on their mind in this book, even the kids, more or less.
It felt as though picking a child for a protagonist was a move to say anything and get away with it using her 'ignorance and innocence' as a scapegoat by the writer.The book dribbles on to irrelevant details and unnecessary situations.
Deepa Mehta's movie "Earth" is based on this and I can recall the tragic ending even today (several years after seeing the movie). The tragedy on the individual level of the protagonists in the book is intertwined with the millions of people who have died since the partition of the sub-continent. The sorrow is too close and personal, so I cannot bring myself to finish reading the book. The book itself is well written and worth a read.
Such a sad and beautiful story. One reads about the Partition of India and Pakistan as a big event, but this book tells the story from a personal perspective. Added to that is that the narrator is a very young girl. In her short lifespan her India goes from an almost magical place of varied and fascinating people living and playing together to a baffling site of unexplainable tragedy. I loved this book.
The prose is a bit lacking, but the story is powerful enough to overcome it for me. I was genuinely upset by this book and the matter of fact way it deals with the tragedy unfolding.Some of the more upsetting things in this book are just the everyday exposure of a child protagonist to lust, even dangerously close to attempted rape near the end. I found the ending more satisfying than the movie ending.
Personally I thought Cracking India was a little boring and a bit too historical for my own taste. The book got slightly interesting starting from part where Ayah is captured, other than that I found it to be slow at the beginning and it didn't really get any better towards the middle.
*3.25*
Ice-candy-man is set in Lahore and has the partition of India as the backdrop.
The story is told by a young Parsee girl- Lenny.
Looking at the massacre and madness of the Partition from the perspective of a child was a very different experience.
The story is essentially of Ayah, a character who represents the thousands of women who fell prey to men-turned-beasts.
Here the tragedy is intensified by betrayal.
One gets to see the destructive side of love.
The kind of love that is best described in the book itself as "pitiless face of love".
Partition narratives always leave me with a heavy lump in my throat.
It is a story about Lenny-baby and her coming of age story during a time when India decided to split and partly become Pakistan.
Lenny-baby lives with her relatively upper class family live in India amongst a wide diversity of religions.
Her Ayah (nanny) is Hindu and gives Lenny the love that she seems to lack from her busy mother.
Ayah takes Lenny around town with her and exposes her to many different things all the while hatred and discontent seep into the narrative.
History books wash over this migration as people moving from their homes and peacefully making a new life in a country where their religion was majority rule; this fabrication of history fails to capture the violence, murder, and forced evacuation that surrounded this "great" migration.
Perhaps history books should change the name from "Great Migration" to "Most Violent Migration" in history.
Mobs attacked people who were not of the majority faith.
Perhaps if our history books did not sugarcoat incidences such as this and others, we could actually learn from our mistakes to ensure history does not repeat itself.
Reading Sidhwa's novel made me realise how thoroughly ignorant I was about Partition.
Something approaching 12-15 million people were displaced, and between 1 and 3 million were killed in what many later referred to as a 'summer of insanity', and this novel gave me a brilliant understanding of the historical era and happenings that constitute its setting.As a literary construction, the novel is great.
A harrowing narrative of the emotional anguish and physical agony undergone by the people of the Indian sub-continent at the time of partition.
Sidhwa presents the tale through the eyes of a child which not only makes the account more compelling and astute, but also imparts an objectivity to it.
The idea that during a religious turmoil people become acutely aware of their religious identity and turn into mere symbols of their religion plays a significant role in shaping the events in the novel.
The author also highlights how in turbulent times religion and gender both work to mutilate the female.
I picked this up after hearing the author read and speak on a panel. She was delightful, and I wish I had time to binge read her novels. This one is full of wit and pathos, populated with people who manage to be both familiar and intriguing. A heartbreaking and fascinating slice of history with continuing ramifications today. I'll go back to Bapsi Sidhwa as a treat for myself.
We get to hear her perspective on the Partition of India - which is something I've never learned about from ANYONE'S perspective before.
Therefore, 8-year-old Lenny is able to listen in on political discussions that take place amongst the Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs, and Christians who flock to Ayah.
During the events that lead up to the partition in 1947, this cohesive group of people suddenly begins to argue and divide.
People shrink, dwindling into symbols.Cracking India - meaning dividing or partitioning India - is about the sudden boundary that was created demarcating India and Pakistan called the Radcliffe Line.
Lahore is dealt to Pakistan, Amritsar to India.
The central character, Lenny, is about four years old when the novel opens, growing up in Lahore in a prosperous family from the tiny Parsi (Zoroastrian) religious minority, but with her physical development affected by polio.
It seemed to me though that she did want to make the point that whilst both men and women were victims of the violence, women were almost entirely absent from the perpetrators, and in particular she uses the novel to attack the pernicious idea that women who are the victims of kidnapping and rape are somehow “shamed” or “fallen”.There were several scenes, set amongst the Parsi community or Lenny’s family, where the author seemed to be trying to introduce an element of comedy.
This would have been four (maybe even five stars on the strength of the creepiest Gandhi passage in all literature), but Ice-candy-man got off way too easy, and no matter how much sense it makes it nevertheless infuriates me.
I really don’t know what to make of this book. It was honestly one of the most disturbing, strangest books I’ve ever read. It has such graphic (unnecessary according to me) details, it ruined the authentic partition feel for me. When it wasn’t about the partition, it felt like reading about child abuse. Idk. I really didn’t like it all that much.
Sidhwa is an excellent story teller. Out of her THE BRIDE, THE WATER , AN AMERICAN BRAT and THE CROW EATER, ICE CANDY MAN is her best.Bapsi Sidhwa is not pensive while writing story.She doesn't blame anyone , just narrates the story of partition of subcontinent.
This book gives a graphic and grotesque picture of Partition and its repurcussion creating a ripple effect on the lives of people like Lenny, Ranna, Shanta, etc who are just a reflection of many voices that were forever silenced. Personally, I had a limited knowledge about the partition but this book allowed in broadening my perspective. Being the first Pakistani author I've read, this book has set a standard which I look forward to break by reading other writers.
Though Sidhwa masterfully communicates a sense of innocent cluelessness in her young protagonist, who often recounts events she has observed without understanding them, this device often results in the reader lacking crucial information about what is actually occurring in the book.
There is also no story arc, and the protagonist never develops at all - it's really just a very long series of observations about a turbulent period in history as recounted by a little girl.
In that sense, this book is very educational, and I learned a lot about the history of the India/Pakistan split.
Her family is indulgent and loving, and she is surrounded by neighbours and servants of every conceivable religious and ethnic background, who at the start, all appear to live in harmony.The story continues against the background of the political storm brewing in the colonial world of India, as the British Empire recedes, and the division into two nations, India and Pakistan, leaving violence, destruction, and rivers of blood in its wake.India doesn't so much crack as it splinters into mutually distrusting ethnic and religious factions.
Or more accurately 1.5 stars to be exact.
What do I say about this novel...
If I hadn't been forced to read it, I would never have gone even 5 miles near it.
Still an understatement.
Why must these writers bring in such needless images in order to pass themselves of as mature writers, willing to cross boundaries and firmly ensure the world of their "liberality" midst "orthodox fundamentalism"?
Her notions concerning the issue of partition or more appropriately an anti-partition stance fail to realize the limitations of the Utopian world she wishes to introduce.
Altogether a disappointing read.
I think I originally rated it so highly because I thought the movie version (Earth) was hot and I had watched that after the first time I read it.During this reading, I realized that the prose wasn't that good, compared to other Indian writers.
I think there were a lot of tedious unnecessary descriptions and tedious, unnecessary characters, and the pacing wasn't that great.
Stories of the Partition were violent and fascinating.
But again, I think they were interspersed with too much minutiae that the author included only because she liked them and not because they had a place in telling a coherent story.
