https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113830.Just_and_Unjust_Wars
An interesting and only too pertinent analysis of the morality of wars. Views on states, the individual soldier, etc. Initially written as a response to Vietnam, but some can very easily compare it to Libya or Afghanistan. Good use of historical examples.
Everything is based on a system of morality that is never really explained save for an unexplained theory of rights that people supposedly have under various circumstances.
The agent problem is worth deep consideration (can we hold a people accountable for their government's actions?) but Walzer does not even come close to answering it in an acceptable way.Sherman was right; war is hell.
Walzer never really answers the big question: what benefit do we gain by fighting in accordance his "moral" ideas of war?
That all said, Walzer does write very well and raises many, many questions that need to be examined.
I read this as required reading during my second year of studies at West Point. We read this along with Thucydides' History of the Peloponnesian War.Although it's subtitle is "A Moral Argument with Historical Illustrations" it does not present a coherent argument. The logic is circular and the argument falls in on itself. In the end, perhaps Thucydides was right: "The strong do as they can, while the weak do as they must"
However, towards the latter part of the book I found myself disagreeing with the author about the WWII strategic bombing campaign and the use of nuclear devices in Japan.
I wanted more info on the WWII bombing campaign from the position of the people who defended it.
He mentions those people but I don't feel he gave me good info on why they felt the strategic bombing campaign was appropriate.
A specific issue I didn't agree with the author was his dismissiveness of the evil of the WWII era Japanese empire.
More journalism than philosophy, alternating between mushy and dangerous.
Rather than a curb on the conduct of war, it provides rhetorical cover for empire and an extremely useful apology for power.
An example of its flimsiness, note how W's reference to Deutronomy on the "use" of captured women attempts to make the text do what it cannot possibly do, show a "universal respect for non-combatants" that was certainly not true in 750 BCE.
In short the book is ahistorical, silent on the workings of power, especially asymmetric warfare, and, most importantly privileges military testimony.
Discussions of the justice of war generally make a distinction between jus ad bellum (just war) and jus in bello (justice in the war).
In this book, Walzer's more central contention is that war is an activity which can be restrained by just boundaries, as opposed to the notion that war is simply a horrific monster, which once unleashed cannot consistently be contained by any moral code.There was still a lot here to appreciate.
He generally rejects utilitarianism in war, in favor of respecting the war convention and the rights it gives to noncombatants, but at the end he is willing to grant that extremely desperate circumstances justify the utilitarian argument against all civilian rights.
I certainly don't.If you are an "absolute pacifist," you have to answer why it would be morally justifiable to stand and watch the unmitigated horrors of genocide that have gone on throughout history without end other than force of war, and Walzer gives many examples here.
Walzer details that history and its rationality brilliantly.If you are a so-called "realist," who makes a point of saying there is no such thing as an "unjust" cause for war, as long as you reasonably decide that it is in your own best interest, you are entitled to your opinion.
Professor Mary Kaldor of LSE has chosen to discuss  Michael Walzer’s Just and Unjust Wars: A Moral Argument With Historical Illustrations , on FiveBooks as one of the top five on her subject - War , saying that:“… This is another classic.
The just cause nowadays, according to Walzer, is self-defence against aggression….
Non-combatants, such as prisoners of war, old men, women and children, are to be protected and there are all kinds of rules about what we now call “collateral damage” which means that the collateral damage has to be proportionate – the cause has to be worthwhile enough that it doesn’t matter if you kill a few people.
Interesting A very popular book on Just War theory although the writing can be less persuasive in later chapters. Still quite educational however. The first chapter made it well worth it.
Walzer examines the ethics of fighting war for countries and for individuals.
With specific historical examples, Walzer leads the reader thru the moral questions of starting, fighting and finishing a war.
So here is my part of the conversation:Atomic Bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki: Walzer believes that dropping the Atomic Bomb on Hiroshima was a moral mistake and unethical because it targeted civilians.
Japan at the time of the atomic bombing still had over one million men in uniform continually fighting to conquer China.
American leaders had no way of knowing if the Japanese desire for peace and negotiations with the Russians was sincere or if it was just another political tactic.
The book starts off fine, however, somewhere around page 50 Walzer make the classic mistake of building entire arguments off of a particular abstract starting point - namely, that there is such thing as a social contract entered into between society and state which gives legitimacy and sovereignty to the state. It's a foolish proposition and leads to all kinds of weird bastardized points of view as things get increasingly confused the more you build on the false starting point.
But, I have completed my reading of the book; and, since I got a brand-new copy to return to my son’s girlfriend (the reading copy I borrowed from her is rather beat-up), I am glad to have my own copy of this work, as it was a book I liked, and liked very much.The work is divided into Four Parts and an Afterword.
Part One deals with The Moral Reality of War, dealing with topics like The Crime of War (taking General Sherman and the Burning of Atlanta as an illustration of his points) and The Rules of War. Part Two is The Theory of Aggression, with such items as Law and Order in International Society, and Interventions (as in the American War in Vietnam).
Not surprisingly there are a lot of different angles to the problem, from the justice of the conflict itself, to justice in the way it is fought.Perhaps the deepest section is the first, where he takes seriously our collective intuitions about why certain wars are in fact "unjust" in some sense, arguing against the "realist" position which says that war is hell and any attempt to moralize about it is misguided.
He often lives or dies on the historical examples he chooses (heavy on Vietnam and WW2), but at the very least his framing and dissection of the problem produces a lot of food for thought.
Unfortunately, much of it seems very outdated now and I think he might have been encouraged to write at least one full chapters on the War on Terror and the issues of the post-cold war world, which are more difficult to judge than those of, say, World War II, the most oft-cited example of a just war (though not fought justly at the end, as Walzer points out - the H-Bomb 'exploded the theory of just war', just as the threat of international nuclear terrorism may also, others may argue).
This author pulls from an eclectic group of historical variety regarding what constitutes a just war, and firstly, whether there is such a thing as a just war. From aquinas to JS Mill, it puts into perspective the reasons behind each philosophy in doing so. It's not so much a survey but more so an amalgamation of different views which constitute his own.
Walzer's personal journey emerged first from his opposition to US actions in Vietnam but led to an examination of the pursuit of war from Thucydides to modernity.War invites barbarism, breaking both law and permissibility.
Walzer draws on emblematic historic examples such as the dilemmas embedded conflict, avoidance of total war, treatment of captives and civilian populations, who is or is not immune from attack (yes to weapons manufacturers, no to those packaging rations; surprising no to sentries who should be captured or driven in) and under what circumstances, and signalling that there are consequences of breaching the limits of moral behaviour.
When I was in college, my major was Peace, War, and Defense.
One of the required courses for the major was called "Philosophy of Peace, War, and Defense.
But this book doesn't really delve into that, it's main concern in interplay of morality and war at international, internal/domestic, and military level.
If I had one major concern was that although the book, originally written in 1976 but updated in 2005, skims over the aspect of terrorism in our society today and the effect of 9/11 on our understanding views on aspects of rules/convention of war and morality.
The thing is that he writes a very interesting concept and I would consider writing another essay about it because there are still a lot of questions.
Also the fact that he kept referring to things in the future: "I would say this later on in this and this chapter." Nice but I am reading the discussion now.
I do understand you do that from time to time considering you can't say everything all at once but it was not once or twice, it was a lot of times.
An important book. Few will come away agreeing with everything that Walzer has to say, but his arguments are so compelling-and his command of military history so formidable-that one's beliefs about the morality of war are certain to be refined if not wholly reconsidered by the end. Generally, Walzer attributes too much significance to the meaningful nature of the national community and fails to consider the psychological or emotive appeal of violence in war. These are really my only two major objections.

It's not normal for me to take over a month to read just 300 pages, so that prefaces how difficult it was for me to finish this book.This is a textbook, glorified. I found that towards the end the author used "I" too much, and that made this lose its credibility imo.Would I recommend? Not really, unless you need something to help you fall asleep.
Good read if you have a general knowledge of Aquinas and just war theory.
This book would have been better had Walzer not been so confusing. Many of his ideas were interesting and understandable yet hard to understand because of his writing style
War is hell. But it exists, so what are the codes we can assemble to judge it by?
A must read for anyone concerned with the morality of war ... and in war.
Had to read for my exam, not something I would typically pick up but was a great read despite nothing I revised coming up in the end...
This book was not an easy read, and I enjoyed/understood the second half much better than the first. I probably need to read this again someday to get everything out of it.
The clearest evidence for the stability of our values over time is the unchanging character of the lies soldiers and statesmen tell." (19)"The sentence War is hell is doctrine, not description: it is a oral argument, an attempt at self-justification." (32)One of Mills's keenest insights is that people have been ruled by tyrants almost invariably fail to develop "the virtues needed for maintaining freedom" - which democratizing-at-gunpoint almost always fails."Self-determination is the school in which virtue is learned (or not) and liberty is won (or not).
Michael Walzer, come da titolo, affronta il tema delle guerre giuste e ingiuste (che non passa mai di moda, specie con dei vicini d'oltreoceano così premurosi di scatenare continuamente nuovi conflitti) dal punto di vista etico e morale, contrapponendosi nello specifico ad una filosofia di stampo Realista.Per chi non ne avesse idea (io per prima) i Realisti, o fautori del Silens leges (l'assenza di leggi in periodo di guerra al grido di "tutto è lecito"), si appellano alla bestialità primigenia dell'uomo.
As it turns out there is a French family in one cellar, who come out at the last minute and are saved, essentially, by the risk taken by -the right action of- the soldier.The book argues this is correct because the soldier has to take on soldierly risks (getting shot/surprised) to protect civilians even though it would be safer for him to just toss a grenade in each cellar without warning.
(He gets his rights back, more or less, as soon as he puts down his gun.)I think I see a problem in this because it creates a kind of perverse moral reward for not fighting.
