https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17717.Labyrinths
441. Labyrinths, Jorge Luis BorgesLabyrinths (1962) is a collection of short stories and essays by Jorge Luis Borges. It includes "Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius", "The Garden of Forking Paths", and "The Library of Babel", three of Borges' most famous stories. Many of the stories are from the collections Ficciones (1944) and El Aleph (1949). هزارتوهای بورخس - خورخه لوئیس بورخس (کتاب زمان) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: هزارتوهای بورخس؛ نویسنده: خورخه لوئیس بورخس؛ مترجم: احمد میرعل
پایان نقل از: خورخه لوییس بورخسبه برهان ناآشنائیم به فرهنگی که، «بورخس» از آن مینالد، و ساز خویش نیز هماره خوش مینوازد، استعاره های ایشان را کمتر درمییابم، برای همین است شاید، با اینکه از خوانش و خواندن چندباره اش، لذتها برده ام، نمیدانم چرا؟ میخواهم بازهم کتاب را بخوانم.
اما آنگاه که درون صدف خویش است، و در قعر دریا تنها، آزاد است و از آن خود ست، و مالکی ندارد، چندین غواص، برایش نفس در سینه حبس میکنند، جانها بهای اوست.
اگر هدیه ای هم باشد، باید بدون مناسبت و دلخواه هدیه دهنده و گیرنده، باشد.
Or are we just part of a giant narrative, told in infinite volumes of books in a labyrinthine library which contains us, the universe and all our imagination, including our deities?Moving from one fictional character to the next (Don Quixote, Hamlet, Dante in his fictional self) and questioning our right to claim more authenticity than these immortal characters, Borges involves his own identity as a person and as a writer in the narrative process, and makes a distinction between what Borges - the person - and Borges - the writer of mythical dimensions - represents, without being sure where one identity ends and the other begins: "I do not know which of us has written this page."Why are readers confused when they realise that characters in books turn into readers of the same book, like Don Quixote in the second part of the Cervantes' masterpiece?
Everything and Nothing is a parable featuring Shakespeare with a multiple identity crisis; another parable, The Witness, has the narrator brooding over memory and death and yet in another parable, Inferno 1,32, we encounter a leopard, Dante, and God in what could be viewed as a dreamscape.Reading Labyrinths years ago, I was inspired to write this micro-fiction as a tribute to Jorge Luis Borges:LIFE STORYThe bold letters on the cover read: Harold Blackman – Life Story.
but borges isn't for everyone (although scrolling down my "friends who have read" list, it looks as though all my friends gave it five stars.) and i'm not accusing you bitches of inflating your ratings, but i have the sense with borges that some people are guilted into liking him.
there were about 6 stories i liked, but the first few almost made me weep with trying to find the value in them.
we were never meant to be.mmmmkay - it seems that there are those who think it would be valuable "in a book review" to list the stories i did like.
|بورخسخوان مجرم نیست، بیمار هم نیست|یک، بورخس کیست/چیست؟•آ«آخِی، حِیوونکی، اینقدر سَرش توی این کتابا بوده اینجوری شدههااا» به نظرم، این صمیمیترین تعریف از آقای بورخس_ و البته طرفدارانش_ استدو، چه موجوداتی بورخس میخوانند؟• اگر دارای کُلکسیونی از افکار خُزعبل هستید که از طرح آن در جمع انسانهای معقول و متعارف سرافکنده میشوید، اگر ارتباط شما با دنیای حقیقی به حداقل رسیده است، اگر از حواس پنجگانهی خود رنج میبرید، بورخس، با چشمانی معیوب، به شما لبخند میزندسه، چرا بورخس بخوانیم؟•هفتگانهی(سکس، بورخس، مش

من مدت ها قبل كه اين كتاب رو خوندم، به خاطر همين عدم جذّابيت و تكرارى شدن سوژه ها، كتاب رو نيمه كاره رها كردم، و حالا توى ريويوها ديدم كه بعضى از دوستان ديگه هم همين طور كتاب رو نصفه رها كردن.بورخس گاوچران ها دوست داشتنى هست، ولى اگه كار داستان نويسى ش رو به همين محدود مى كرد، فكر كنم هيچ وقت آوازه ش از كشورهاى لاتين فراتر نمى رفت.بورخس هزارتوهابورخس دوم، بورخس "هزارتو"هاست: داستان هایی غریب از شرق، جادوگری، عرفان، منطق الطیر عطار، هندوستان، عارفان قرون وسطا، کیمیاگری، و بیشتر از همه هزارتوها.
بورخس می گه: حالا که فکر می کنم من هنوز روحم توی همون کتابخونه باقی مونده و همچنان دست از خوندن کتاب های اون کتابخونه نکشیدم.اولین داستانی که بورخس رو از دنیای گاچوها درآورد و به دنیای هزارتوها وارد کرد، داستان "تقرّب به درگاه المعتصم" بود.
A university professor had once expounded on the supposed conflict between history and literature, the former bemoaning the irrelevance of the latter when it comes to tracing the contours of reality while the latter countering this accusation by deploying the well-known defense of 'there's no one way of looking at the truth'.
The very fact that the known limits of what's considered intelligible are being breached every moment, has its roots in the reluctance of labyrinthine minds like Borges' to follow linear pathways.
For a moment, he thought of taking refuge in the river, but then he knew that death was coming to crown his old age and absolve him of labors.
There are numerous references in the work which propose this.According to André Maurois, Borges sets out to hunt the following metaphor, regarding infinity, through the centuries:Pascal wrote: "Nature is an infinite sphere whose center is everywhere, whose circumference is nowhere." And so from an enchanted mind, inspired by the possibility of fiction as reality and vice-versa, is created an array of dreamlike worlds for the readers where readers continuously keep drifting from the boundaries of one to another dazed by the magical images appearing infinitely.
بورخس یک جادوگر تمامعیار است. این را من نمیگویم. همین که کتاب را شروع کنید، او را میبینید که با لباس جادوگری و چوبدستیاش پشت داستانها ایستاده و دارد جادو میکند. من مطمئنم که بورخس هم از طرفداران واقعی هزارویک شب است. او بعضی داستانها را از روی دست شهرزاد نوشته و میشود او را از نوادگان شهرزاد دانست. شاید برای من همین کافی باشد که به کتابی که هزارویک شب جد و نیای آن حساب میشود پنج ستاره بدهم اما هزارتوهای بورخس چیزی بیش از این است. جهان داستانهایش اساطیری، مرموز، باستانی، رمزآمیز و آمیخته با جادوس
همین که کتاب را شروع کنید، او را می‌بینید که با لباس جادوگری و چوب‌دستی‌اش پشت داستان‌ها ایستاده و دارد جادو می‌کند.
من مطمئنم که بورخس هم از طرفداران واقعی هزارویک شب است.
شاید برای من همین کافی باشد که به کتابی که هزارویک شب جد و نیای آن حساب می‌شود پنج ستاره بدهم اما هزارتوهای بورخس چیزی بیش از این است.
بعضی از شخصیت‌ها انگار اسم اعظم و یا رمز کائنات همین لحظه سر زبان‌شان بوده اما لحظه‌ای بعد آن را فراموش کرده‌اند، بعضی‌هایشان قصه‌هایی از سفر در زمان را دارند و طوری از این اتفاق صحبت می‌کنند که هر آدم معمولی از خاطره‌ی مسافرتش.
His vast accumulated knowledge penetrates his work to create meta fiction that feels truly authentic, thus one has constantly remind oneself that Borges pens works of fiction and not treatises.
As a reward he elicits a delicious reverberation from his work and the beauty and wisdom of his stories that might appear vastly spread in theme and scope create a cohesive chef-d'oeuvre.
They create the maze of thought that Borges, like Ariadne leading Theseus out of the Minotaur’s labyrinth, leads us through.
Maybe a writer is not like a divine creator who creates something out of nothing, but rather a modest chef who crafts something from the ingredients he has available to him.
A perfect book to buy for your early-teens little sister right when she starts showing interest in the opposite sex.
The holidays are right around the corner, after all...(view spoiler)[Mystical, intricate, luminous, dreamlike, a treasure trove of knowledge which could trap you in wikipedia searches for the whole of a grad school program, this collection gives and gives and then gives some more.
These pieces will make you think, they will make you dream, they will make your head spin, you will read and reread and often stop to just simmer for awhile, and on and on I could ramble...in fact, I can't think of a more perfect title than Labyrinths.
(In the best way.) (hide spoiler)]Makes a great beach read, too!
The hypothesis, thesis, maxim and crux of touching upon the streaming moment, the schizophrenic past, the hallucinatory future, and everything in between.You read a story, and you enjoy it.
You read a story, and think, well, it wasn't a complete waste of time.
Here is immortality in the flight of thought and the falling of form, for what is the assurance of death if not an instigation of the limited soul towards a mark in the infinite?
Reality, perhaps.) thought that he would never live to see.
Doctor Who visits Argentina The TARDIS appears in a wheat Farm. Doctor Who and his hot assistant come out of it. "But what are doing in Argentina?" Doctor replies"I lost my Sonic screwdriver was lost in labyrinths of time." and becomes quit as if the explanation is enough. Impatient she tries again, "So, how do you know it is to be found in Argentina of 70s?" "I don't where my screwdriver is. I can't find a thing in labyrinths of time, it is labyrinths of time for goodness sake. Only one person
Doctor Who visits Argentina
The TARDIS appears in a wheat Farm.
Doctor Who and his hot assistant come out of it.
"But what are doing in Argentina?" Doctor replies"I lost my Sonic screwdriver was lost in labyrinths of time." and becomes quit as if the explanation is enough.
Impatient she tries again, "So, how do you know it is to be found in Argentina of 70s?" "I don't where my screwdriver is.
I can't find a thing in labyrinths of time, it is labyrinths of time for goodness sake.
Only one person is genius enough to be able to find his way through them." "Who?" "What do you mean by 'Who'?
To read Borges’s Labyrinth is immerse myself in a magical world where the concept of infinity manifests in space and time, where the boundary between dream and reality fades, where the past and the future converge into an instant, where levels of texts superimpose on one another, where fiction imitates nonfiction and life is a drama on stage.
I recommend Labyrinth to anyone who wants to dream of magical worlds, who wants to reflect on reality and fiction, who wants to analyze the boundary between text and the interpreter, and who wants to contemplate on the nature of infinity.
”This City is so horrible that its mere existence and perdurance, though in the midst of a secret desert, contaminates the past and the future and in some way even jeopardizes the stars. As long as it lasts, no one in the world can be strong or happy. I do not want to describe it; a chaos of heterogeneous words, the body of a tiger or a bull in which teeth, organs and heads monstrously pullulate in mutual conjunction and hatred can (perhaps) be approximate images.” In Labyrinths, Borges meander
He playfully and skillfully arranges and rearranges thematic elements such as time, infinity, paradoxes, identity, mirrors, reality, Solipsism, dreams, the annihilation of opposites, and the infinite contained in the infinitesimal.
Within these pages you’ll get lost in endless houses that repeat themselves endlessly, and discover “strange geometries” that’d surely have impressed the shit out of Lovecraft.
At only 3 pages long, it manages to pack an incredible punch, and is fairly representative of Borges’ style.
He believed in an infinite series of times, in a growing, dizzying net of divergent, convergent and parallel times.
The opening story ('Tlon, Uqbar, Orbius Tertius') is one of the most challenging, rewarding mind-f**ks in all literature.
Borges's style is limited - this becomes clearer in his later work - but for me this collection is well-chosen.
Is it only me or does anyone else see a bit of Borges in Philip K.
And why are the Borg (Star Trek: The Next Generation) called the Borg?
I mean, the librarian in The Name of the Rose was called Jorge for a reason.
In the mind-bending short story stakes only Edgar Allan Poe comes close.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب 296 صفحه دارد و مجموعه ای از نوشته ها، روایتها، مصاحبه ها و اشعارِ «بورخس» است... بیشتر به تقدیر و ستایش از قهرمان هایِ جنگی و انقلابی در آرژانتین و زندگیِ و افکارِ آنها پرداخته استدر ابتدایِ کتاب، مترجم «بورخس» را با «حافظ» مقایسه کرده است، که از دیدگاهِ من، اصلاً قابلِ مقایسه نیستند... در زیر تعدادی از نوشته هایِ این کتاب را برایِ شما بزرگواران به انتخاب، مینویسم---------------------------------------------------هزارتویِ پُرپیچ و خمی از گام هاکه از روزهایِ من بافته شد
‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب 296 صفحه دارد و مجموعه ای از نوشته ها، روایتها، مصاحبه ها و اشعارِ «بورخس» است...
بیشتر به تقدیر و ستایش از قهرمان هایِ جنگی و انقلابی در آرژانتین و زندگیِ و افکارِ آنها پرداخته است‎در ابتدایِ کتاب، مترجم «بورخس» را با «حافظ» مقایسه کرده است، که از دیدگاهِ من، اصلاً قابلِ مقایسه نیستند...
به راستی که سکۀ «بورخس» چنان فتنه میکند که گاه میترسم نکند کور شویم!، یا من میترسم--------------------------------------------------‎امیدوارم پسندیده باشید‎<پیروز باشید و ایرانی>
Dalam buku Labyrinths, Borges mengarang plot yang membuat tokohnya menyusuri halaman-halaman ensiklopedia untuk mengetahui apa itu Uqbar dan Tlön (dalam Tlön, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius) dan, tanpa keraguan akan jadi membosankan, menampilkan 19 nomor literatur karya Menard pada satu cerita pendek (Pierre Menard, Author of the Quixote).
Kita seperti tokoh dalam The Circular Ruins: seorang lelaki yang berusaha menciptakan manusia dalam mimpi, dan akhirnya menyadari, setelah tidak terbakar oleh api, bahwa ia sendiri ciptaan imajiner dari orang lain yang bermimpi―apa yang kelihatan nyata rupanya hanya bagian dari ilusi.Borges meringkus labirin-labirin imajiner itu dalam bentuk cerita pendek yang seperti esai: hampir seluruhnya narasi dan sarat misteri.

للتحميل المرايا والمتاهاتخورخي لويس بورخيس
Yet Borges was a conscious and thinking author, despite appearing to err on the logical side of the writing spectrum, addressing his fictional work as a means to explore deep philosophical or metaphysical ideas and concepts.
This does not mean that Borges finishes where he began, necessarily, however his work does lead the reader on a set path before causing them to look back and recognise that the way back is the very same way they have come.The work of Jorge Luis Borges is a must read for any individual with a deep love for important literature classics.
I cannot begin to fathom the amount of research that went to his stories, as even today, with the World Wide Web it would have taken me years to find and understand the vast amount of 'data' he throws around as if nothing.
There were stories and essays that made me question my own sanity, my own understanding of the world.
And then there were pieces that just blew me away and left me puzzled (The wall and the Books; A New Refutation of Time, for example).
This will not be my favorite book of all time, it will not go down as the most memorable read of the year either...but...Borges, you shook my world in a profound, inexplicable way.
I only wish that for the first book that I read of Borges that it was either all short stories or all essays; I had difficulty making the transition from the last story to the first essay because the lyrical cadence of his writing style made his beautifully written essays seem almost fictive.
Borges' love of all things Quixote makes me want to hunker down with that book and read, re-read, and re-re-read it until it has the mantric effect that it apparently had on him.
Dostoevsky made me want to learn Russian to read him in his native language - Borges has the same effect on me w.r.t. Spanish.
من دیگر از کائنات چیزی درک نخواهم کرد. "ظاهر" را درک خواهم کرد. بنابر تعلیم ایدهآلیستها کلمات "زندگی کردن" و "خواب دیدن" سخت با هم مترادفند. از هزاران تصویر به یکی خواهیم پرداخت، و از رویایی در نهایت پیچیدگی به رویایی در کمال سادگی. دیگران به خواب خواهند دید که من دیوانهام، من "ظاهر" را به خواب خواهم دید. هنگامی که همه مردمان زمین، شب و روز به "ظاهر" بیندیشند، چه چیزی رویا خواهد بود و چه چیزی واقعیت؟ زمین یا "ظاهر"؟از متن کتاب
من دیگر از کائنات چیزی درک نخواهم کرد. "ظاهر" را درک خواهم کرد. بنابر تعلیم ایده‌آلیست‌ها کلمات "زندگی کردن" و "خواب دیدن" سخت با هم مترادفند. از هزاران تصویر به یکی خواهیم پرداخت، و از رویایی در نهایت پیچیدگی به رویایی در کمال سادگی. دیگران به خواب خواهند دید که من دیوانه‌ام، من "ظاهر" را به خواب خواهم دید. هنگامی که همه مردمان زمین، شب و روز به "ظاهر" بیندیشند، چه چیزی رویا خواهد بود و چه چیزی واقعیت؟ زمین یا "ظاهر"؟از متن کتاب
He toys with Bishop Berkeley's idea that the physical world need not necessarily exist.
Need it necessarily be the case that this string of sense perceptions which I call myself has any actual unity?
But the "philosophers" are out there thinking them and Borges fictional rendering of their implications is as interesting a presentation of these ideas as one is likely to run across.Another major theme of Borges thinking, and perhaps the most representative expression of his view of reality, centers on the notion of Labyrinths.
This is the first Borges book I ever read.
Since then, of course, he's died and all of his short stories have been collected in English.
Mike Miley, the person who spends more money on books than anyone I've ever known (and is very generous in sharing them), purchased that complete collection, bringing it up to the cottage in Michigan during his last visit.
Thus, all of the Labyrinths stories have been read at least twice now.What I particularly like about Borges is his creative erudition.
Why hasn't anyone smacked me over the head with a copy and said, "Read this, dummy"? I want to live in his brain.
.داستانْ صحبت خواهیم کرد، زمانی که غنی باشیم
In 1833, Carlyle observed that the history of the universe is an infinite sacred book that all men write and read and try to understand, and in which they are also written.” – Partial Magic in the Quixote (Essay)“We (the undivided divinity operating within us) have dreamt the world.
I don’t know why, but it’s true.In the essays, he sounds like he genuinely wants to know, is searching for meaning, and believes much of what he writes in his short stories.
He never finds the answer I presume, looking to many religions and philosophies, especially metaphysics (science, pseudo-science, you pick).His themes cover the weird and mysterious, stuff that trip the mind, and loosen the hold of your sanity.
من وین سنت مونم. اکنون تحقیرم کن.×××به بعضی داستان ها می تونستم پنج ستاره بدم بعضی ها هم چهار که نتیجتا بهش چهار از پنج می دم. در کل تجربه ی خوندن بورخس لذت بخش و لازمه.
