https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18402.The_Dante_Club
This novel is the reason you should never buy a book just because the cover says it's a New York Times Bestseller. It's a badly-constructed murder mystery set in Boston, in which a group of famous poets bands together to stop a series of murders inspired by Dante's Divine Comedy -- think Da Vinci Code, but with elderly characters who have an overdeveloped sense of self-importance and who aren't even terribly likable. The story also jumps back and forth through time without any warning, making it confusing and difficult to follow.
Save yourself some time and read Dante's "Inferno" instead.
This marvelous book is a superlative example of numerous genres: historical fiction and mystery being two examples. While the premise of engaging famous historical figures in a mystery is intriguing, Pearl never allows this element to drive the narrative. His characterizations of Longfellow, Holmes and Lowell are so brilliant, the reader forgets that they are icons of literary history, and views them as intense and vivacious fictional characters. This is not beach-reading, but instead an intelle
This marvelous book is a superlative example of numerous genres: historical fiction and mystery being two examples.
While the premise of engaging famous historical figures in a mystery is intriguing, Pearl never allows this element to drive the narrative.
While built on an intellectual premise, one needs not be familiar with Dante to enjoy this book.
The author manages to introduce those unfamiliar with Dante to the thrill of the Inferno, without belittling those who may already know the great work.
This is rarely accomplished with finesse, but Pearl manages to do it with literary aplomb.
This author sure does name drop: "Dante", "Harvard", etc.
Granted, I read this book because of that Dante name drop, even though I don't really like murder mystery type novels.
(Consider that my disclaimer.) It's an attempt at an intelligent book that, despite the author's bio, I just don't feel quite accomplishes that.
The time period allowed for horse dysentry to cause a transportation meltdown and little girls to exclaim "oh, poppa!" (pretty much the only female characters, by the way), but the author didn't quite take me there.
It attempts to deal with race and other such issues, but felt very superficial.
Pearl is a good writer and the theme is engrossing for those familiar with Dante's magnum opus.
However, the author's smug tone and obvious conviction of his own brilliance married my enjoyment of what could have been a perfectly acceptable literary mystery.
I could also have done without the cheap-horror graphics of victims being eaten by insects etc regarding the various colorful murders, but I suppose Pearl was trying to convey some of the feeling of revulsion invoked by the torments described in Inferno.
Also, despite the many hypothetically-interesting factors (murder!
Dante!
Rather, I suppose, as many undergrads seem to find the Comedy, which I love.
I have to be honest, since I teach high school English and cover and teach the classics day in and day out, my at-home reading pursuits are typically of the "get lost in an easy read" variety.
I honestly didn't have a working knowledge of Dante beyond the answer-a-few-Jeopardy-questions variety and found that my interest is sparked and I think I need to read Longfellow's translation.
and here I was all geeked to get lost in a mindless novel and you make me THINK on my day off!
I was at a show (as in indie rock, guitar and drums and beer) in a faraway city [this did not happen in Seattle, although you would expect it to, since this town is so flippin' small], it was past midnight, I think it was the 8th or 9th band we had seen that day, and a person who had joined our group, who I had never met before, was wearing a tee shirt that said "So many books, Not enough time" or something like that, and we were waiting for the band to start so I said, so, what book are your reading now, and he told me, then I told him I had read this great book called "The Dante Club" and went on about it for a bit, and this woman standing next to us interrupted and said, "I couldn't help overhearing your conversation -- I'm Matthew Pearl's agent!" (or whatever it is they are called in the publishing business).
And what a great book!
It is the story of the Fireside Poets - Henry Longfellow, Oliver Wendell Holmes and James Russell - who initially form the Dante Club to assist Longfellow in finishing the first American translation of Dante Alighieri's Commedia Divina.The book starts off with the gruesome murder of Judge Healy, probably the most intense beginning to any book I've ever had the pleasure of reading.
With more people in high places dying, the Dante Club notices the pattern and begins an investigation to find their "Lucifer."In conjunction to their hunt for "Lucifer," the Dante Club faces the dastardly Harvard School who is hell-bent on making sure that the Dante Club's dream of publishing the translated poem never becomes realized.Pearl creates a well-researched book with rich historical details that perfectly capture post Civil War America.
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, James Russell Lowell and their publisher J.T. Fields comprise the Dante Club, a group of Harvard scholars who are attempting to birth the first American translation of Dante's Divine Comedy.
The Dante Club, then, attempts to discover the identity of the killer before he murders again and spoils their version of Dante's masterpiece by associating it with his vile crimes.
Like I said, it is a cool premise; the setting is the early winter of 1865 in the immediate aftermath of the Civil War, and the main characters, all based on American literary legends, are well done.
Oh boy, what to say about this book.
I was looking on Amazon.com and it came up in my 'recommended for you' section.
I clicked on it and found the summary to be interesting as well as the comments of those who already read the book.
I struggled through the first half of the book and found the plot to be moving slower than molasses.
At that point I decided to only read some of the dialogue and skim through the rest, but I couldn't even do that.
I ended up giving the book back half read, not really caring that I hadn't finished.
The Dante Club is a good historical mystery written by Matthew Pearl.
In 1865, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow with the help of few other literary giants is at the task of translating Dante's Divine Comedy.
The book is a mixture of real historical facts and a well-crafted fictitious story.
And in this story, the poets of the Dante Club assumes the role of detectives in their attempt to find the serial killer who is lurking around ready to strike again bringing punishment from Dante's Hell.
Having read this after reading Dante's The Divine Comedy, the story had more appeal.
Enough of stone throwing, I don't want to keep on writing words on words about a book which I did not like.
Keeping the plot aside, there were some parts I did like, the ambiance being but one of them.P.S : I should have run away from this book when I saw Dan Brown wrote that this book was amazing...my bad, I should never listen to this guy again...
I don't know why I've even read this book.
And some great american poets solving mystery crimes in Boston.
Oh, and 19th-century Boston itself.
Sounds good, isn't it ?
Such a good topic and what ?
To paraphrase Poe  boredom there and nothing more .
Agreed, only Boston emerged unscathed from it.
I'd better re-read  Divine Comedy instead of this rubbish.
I read somewhere about similarity to Eco's The name of the rose.
You must be kidding me !It's awful to think what the author could do with Poe and good old Dickens.
I appreciate author's effort but the final effect was unsatisfying .
Get your famous, mid-nineteenth century New England, literary figures straight!The story: there are a series of gruesome murders going on in Boston which mimic some of the deaths in Dante Alighieri's famous 'Divine Comedy,' specifically from the 'Inferno.' (The three men mentioned above, along with publisher James Field, are involved in studying and translating Dante's famous work.) They become bedeviled and bewildered by how the murders and book are connected.
I also read much of it in a rather 'sleepy state' as the World Series (2018) was going on.
Matthew Pearl writes what is part murder mystery and part historical fiction about a series of murders taking place in the 19th century Boston of Lowell, Longfellow, and Holmes--major characters here--who are in the process of translating Dante's "Inferno" when the murders take place.
That's what I thought when I started reading "The Dante Club," but Matthew Pearl failed in his execution.
"The Dante Club" was not my kind of book, and I wouldn't recommend it, but at least it made me want to revisit Dante's "Inferno," so I guess it wasn't a complete waste of time.
I would call Matthew Pearl's style the fictional counterpart to "historian" Erik Larson's.
I put historian in quotes because much of what Larson writes is either made up, or written in such a novelized way as to seem preposterous to people who actually read history books.
125 or so of Pearl's novel before I started to feel like the book might have a destination.
It wasn't really worth getting there.There are four prominently featured members of the Dante Club: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr., poet James Russell Lowell, and publisher J.T. Fields.
Holmes, Lowell, and Fields merge into a barely differentiated mass.
Historical mystery set in 19th century Boston.
A series of gruesome murders inspired by the punishments in Dante's Inferno is terrifying the people of Boston.
Meanwhile the poets Longfellow and Lowell are fighting a battle against the governing body of Harvard who are resisting their attempts to bring Dante to the attention of Americans.
The two poets, plus Oliver Wendell Holmes and publisher JT Fields, apply their literary skills to solving the murders and tracking down the killer.Interesting mystery - I liked the setting and the literary protagonists, and enjoyed the way Pearl connected Dante's work with the murders.
Of course this is 19th century poets being detectives so they were more horrified than majority of us readers would be, what with TV being what it is nowadays.I appreciated that Mr. Pearl included some information on the plot and characters of Inferno as part of the story - I haven't read Dante yet and this saved me from having to put down the book to look things up online or wonder whether I've possibly missed something.
Dan Brown?" Yup.It's a lot like the Da Vinci Code.
A pretty good crime novel with some interesting historical and literary info tossed in, but overall you can sort of check out when you're reading it.
The historical fiction aspect of it is an interesting twist.
Yes, it connected the dots of all the crimes, why they were committed and how they were committed, but after examining the motives, it was like, "OK, severe PTSD, mixed with a little crazy."The literary sleuths were OK, but didn't really do a whole lot for me.
So a major fan of literature, murder and mystery should love this book right?
Well thats what I thought too but I struggled with this one and couldnt wait to finish it..Its not that the book isnt great or doesnt have potential it is just too verbose and tedious..The book has alot of words and descriptive passages and flashbacks that take away from the fast paced murder mystery aspect and it makes the book drag.

Not going to star this book because I couldn't finish it. I'm sure the mystery is great once the mystery gets going, but the author spends a lot of time on the set up of the poets, and I couldn't get into it. Hoping to go back and try again some time.
This is a murder mystery that takes place in Boston just after the Civil War. The murders revolve around Dante's Inferno, and a group of Dante scholars are the only people who may be able to find the killer.
For a while I couldn't figure out why I wasn't really into the novel, and by the end, it finally dawned on me: Pearl doesn't want you to figure out who the killer is until it's time, but in doing so, the mystery loses it's appeal.
good mysteries leave clues that the reader may or may not pick up on.
but the clues lead logically to the killer.
this is not a good mystery.
the investigation takes wild jumps from one clue to the next.
they have formed a club to help longfellow translate dante's divine comedy.
their project takes on a more serious and urgent tone when the serial killer roaming the streets of boston seems to be using dante's work as a source.
is this killer dante's guardian?
will the dante club be able to translate the text?
will they catch the killer?
I've read some other reviews on here, and, unlike most, I had no trouble getting through the first third of the book.
but when it came time to solve it, it seemed like he was in a hurry, and things got wrapped up rather neatly in a fashion that did not seem congruent with the rest of the book.
Hence, I am eager to read his next book .
(paticularly as it's called The Poe Shadow - yea Poe!) but from the one review I've read thus far, it seems like the same thing may have happened with the ending.
E devo dire che non l'ho trovato particolarmente ostico e pesante, forse solo nelle prime 100 pagine e in alcune digressioni successive funzionali, però, secondo me, a ricostruire con maggior realismo possibile la società americana dell'Ottocento nei suoi molteplici aspetti, soprattutto quelli legati alla letteratura e alle avanguardie letterarie dell'epoca.
Un buon thriller, dunque, raffinato, erudito, ben scritto: lo apprezzerete maggiormente se amate la letteratura (...e ovviamente il poeta fiorentino che dà il nome al romanzo stesso!) Complimenti a Pearl!
The genre is fictional mystery.This book has a strong relation with Dante's DIVINA COMEDIA (Divine Comedy).You don't have to read the Divine Comedy first in order to understand this novel.
Supporting and background characters, as well as those directly involved with the murders, are also mostly fictional."Quite descriptive, the writer is Matthew Pearl and this book already get much good reviews.You guys must read this one.------Febry------
They are preparing to publish the first American edition of Dante's Divine Comedy.
This is controversial--almost no one in American is interested in the study of the Italian language, first of all, and also, Dante's work is seen as obscene and too Catholic for the more Protestant American public.
There are few in Boston, or in New England for that matter, who know anything about Dante, let alone enough about the Divine Comedy to orchestrate these murders.
It is more clever than the majority of novels, with many literary references to both Dante and to the works of the characters.
The Dante Club is an absolutely wonderful book that has the misfortune of being centered on a fairly generic thriller.
Anytime the novel focuses on literary discussion of Dante, the challenges of translation, or the interaction between New England's 19th century literary elites, the novel absolutely soars.
At the end of the day I'm fine with the plot since, if nothing else, it pushes the novel into the realm of popular fiction, which means people who have never read Dante will pick it up, learn a great deal about the Commedia, and perhaps even pick up the poem for themselves.
If a dull thriller plot is what it takes to introduce more people to Dante, I'm all for it
This is an American lit.
lover's dream and it's even better for fans of Dante and his harrowing imaginings of hell, purgatory, etc.
I am enjoying reading about the history of Harvard and its printing press during the 1860s.
Oliver Wendell Holmes and his son make an appearance as well as other literary stars like Longfellow.
This book is immensely enjoyable so far, and the characters feel real as does the story.Okay, I don't know what happened, but I am no longer "feeling" this book.
I am going to check it back in and maybe try it later.
I hate that.
