https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1432454.The_Nature_of_the_Judicial_Process
Non-legal factors such as history, tradition, and social changes certainly influence judges' thinking and, if considered and incorporated into the judicial process properly, may help the judges deliver the most appropriate and desirable result for the cases that they are deciding.
Assuming law-making is necessarily part of adjudication work and the judges possess the power to weigh factors that exist outside the legal system in producing their result, the major problem for the author to deal with in this book is when the need of making laws rises in the judicial process and how could the judges avoid abusing the power and damaging the authority as they make laws on their bench.
Written in 1921, during his tenure at the New York Court of Appeals, Justice Cardozo draws upon his personal experience, as well as a wealth of research and reading, while deploying his considerable intellectual gifts, to flesh out and articulate, the nuance that lays behind the discharge of the judicial function.
It is a testament to Justice Cardozo's immense gifts that a book of such a serious nature manages to be both informative, and insightful as well as being a treat to the senses for readers appreciative of the beauty of (and the clarity of thought that lies behind) well-written prose.
Though this book is often intended for the judicial branch, I might add that this book might also be of use to those in the legislative areas and those who in any way discuss business or government policy. Cardozo discusses the limitations of attempting to adhere solely to a theoretical set of 'philosophy', but also the considerations of 'sociology', and the present demands of the public. A short, but incisive, legal work.
A delight from the first word, because (but not *only* because) of Cardozo's singularly vivid prose.
As Cardozo is at pains to explain, the evergreen campaign to destroy all judicial discretion is doomed.
In time, and with a little wisdom, you will get a sense of what a judge can and should do.
One can only imagine the scorn the old man would heap on the textualist just-so stories cranked out by today's law clerks—let alone the scandalous notion of clerks regularly writing opinions in the first place.All this is true.
Wonderful lectures by the Justice Cordoza.
I read this book as a lay person hoping to shed some light on all the current discussions about "activist judges" on the Supreme Court and the proper role of the judicial branch in our system. This book definitely helped. I particularly thought the organization of the chapters into discussions focusing on one method or set of methods at a time was useful and made an otherwise dense, esoteric topic somewhat more accessible. Still, while it wasn't a hard read necessarily, it was pretty dry in places.
Cardozo's thesis is dedicated to the hard case. Repeated over and over again, he insists there will be cases where precedent does not guide the judge—almost always in constitutional or common law cases—and the judge must resort to his understanding of community mores and customs. This thesis is pretty far out stuff at present, but even Cardozo's asides in these lectures are worth consideration given his thoughtfulness and personal experience.
Cardozo has a great writing style. There are no long, run-on sentences. The flow of each sentence and each subsequent sentence makes the writing easily accessible. A few thoughts and observations. Cardozo does a great job identifying the different influences of judicial decision making. It was interesting to see how the Lochner decision, even almost a hundred years ago, was heavily critiqued then as much as today.
Another must read!The law touches all, private citizens,lawyers and judges alike. I, a private citizen, study law as a defensive tool. Make the study of law a hobby because unlike most hobbies that may never bring one wealth, the hobby of studying law is guaranteed to "payoff" sooner or later!
This is an interesting treatment of the implications of precedent. Do judges make law or do they simply interpret old law? How much interpretation is appropriate? Is law separate from morality or based upon it? He approaches these questions from three routes: philosophical, historical, and sociological.
cardozo, the famous former supreme court justice, shatters the myth of law's objectivity. instead, he argues that law has a "subconscious," that is, the underlying philsophies that drive judges whose duty it is to interpret law.
Almost everything I need to know about many current themes in the American legal system, and helping me to guide clients for the future.
Anyone interested in judicial reasoning must read this book. Cardozo brings the spirit of a poet to the bench.
Unknown soft
