https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36064.American_Tabloid
It’s got the Mafia and the CIA, Cuba and Cuban exiles, the 1960 presidential election, the Bay of Pigs, the civil rights movement, and some heroin trade, just for laughs.Ellroy uses one of his unholy main character trinities of Bad White Men doing Bad Things, but instead of limiting the action to post-war Los Angeles like he did with the LA Quartet of crime stories, he uses his three fictional characters chasing their own twisted obsessions and ambitions to probe the darker moments of a particularly juicy slice of American history.Kemper Boyd is ex-FBI, who begins spying on the Kennedy’s for J.
to paraphrase kris kristofferson: if it sounds fucked up, man, that's because it is.
and the result is exactly what you'd imagine from a mediocre writer w/a flair for the hyperbolic all hopped up on caffeine.
imagine, however, if a brilliant writer, a demented rotgut-drunk coozehound of a bastard did what i did and laid out some genius shit...
you'd have something like american tabloid.
for me, this book is the nearest representation of what 20th century american history feels like.
fuck the facts, we'll never really know what they are, anyway.
Check out the prose. Dig the style. Raymond Carver looks verbose. Hemingway looks weak and fey. Dig the streamlined story. 1500 pages of plot compacted into 576.Dig the violence. The greed. The manipulations, the conspiracies. Check out the Outfit. The Beard. The Cadre. Jimmy and the Klan. The Hair and Little Brother all gunning towards history like a hophead mainlining a speedball. Check out the geek posing at writing this review.
The fates of three men, Ward Littell, Kemper Boyd, and Pete Bondurant, are forever entwined in the era of mobsters, Fidel Castro, and the Kennedys.Yeah, that's not much of a teaser but there's no quick way to sum this one up.American Tabloid takes key figures of the late 1950s and early 1960s and pisses all over them.
His three leads, Ward Littell, Kemper Boyd, and Pete Bondurant, rise and fall as they influence key historical events.Politics makes strange bedfellows and Kemper Boyd is in bed with most of them.
He used to pimp and pull shakedowns. Now he rode shotgun to History.   Whoa, Ellroy's done it again: another 5-star read. So far, that's 5 out of 5 for me. This time, he takes his talent for weaving complex plots and conspiracies from his 50's Los Angeles setting and unleashes it nationwide in an epic re-shaping of the country's turbulent history between 1958 and 1963 as we follow three men who play pivotal roles in the events that ultimately lead to that infamous day in Dallas, Texas on Novem
This time, he takes his talent for weaving complex plots and conspiracies from his 50's Los Angeles setting and unleashes it nationwide in an epic re-shaping of the country's turbulent history between 1958 and 1963 as we follow three men who play pivotal roles in the events that ultimately lead to that infamous day in Dallas, Texas on November 22, 1963.Just when I thought a conspiracy couldn't get any more complex than L.A. Confidential's, this book takes it to a whole new level.
However, Ellroy attempts to boil the story down to three central characters: power-driven Kemper Boyd, a “retired” FBI agent tasked by director Hoover to infiltrate Robert and Jack Kennedy’s committee; Ward Littell, an FBI agent with an intense hatred for organized crime; and Pete Bondurant, a retired cop working as a cleaner of sorts for the reclusive Howard Hughes.There’s little rest for Ellroy’s cast when they’re all playing the long con through major events in the early 1960s; keeping track of their movements was like watching one of those street grifters with the ball-cup shuffle.
Perhaps, but unless you are a serious student of history I’ll bet that when the subject of Ancient Rome comes up the first thing that you think of has something to do with their late period descent into decadence.This book revolves around three characters: Pete Bondurant, Kemper Boyd, and Ward Littell.
When Pete and Kemper have the Chicago Mafia after them, I was sincerely worried for their safety.It amazes me that Ellroy can stir such emotions for characters that are given so few background details outside of the action at hand.
Questo romanzo si può dire che segni un confine netto nella mia vita di lettore, la mia linea d'ombr
The basic run down -this is a chronologically presented story of three characters who played a role in the eventual assassination of JFK.My curiosity about Jimmy Hoffa, Howard Hughes, J Edgar Hoover, the Mafia, the Cubans, and the government are what kept me reading, but the language and content was very much a throwback (read offensive).
The real conspiracists dispute even the existence of hijacked planes - they believe that missiles hit the towers, and they only looked like the planes because of CGI.
Set all over the USA and some other areas in the late 50's and early 60's, Ellroy's novel draws real historical characters - The Kennedy brothers, J.
Ellroy is completely unsentimental towards the real and imagined characters, and knows the period he's writing about, henceforth they come at the reader with all their dirt, racism, swindling and corruption which altogether is all too human.

Instead, it is a fictional insider’s look at the men who populated the underbelly of politics and criminal organizations supported by out-of-control legal police organizations.The famous characters in the novel - John F.
Perhaps the author is expressing subtextually in a visual and verbal manner that all of these fictional, evil clever gentlemen are missing important things in their characters which would have rounded them out into being normal human beings, similar to the effect of missing words in the sentences, that would give warmth or sympathy to them.I truly hated this book.
In other words, it does basically everything you can ask of a novel and then some.Ellroy pins the rise and precipitous fall of JFK into the ground like a stake and lets the story twine around it, so while this is technically a story about everything leading up to the Kennedy assassination, it's more particularly, and movingly, the story of Kemper Boyd, Ward J.
In any other book, the near-universality of his appeal would grate, but I am just as much in love with Kemper Boyd as 99% of the characters in this novel are, so you won't hear that complaint from me.
I've said in reviews of le Carré, that long, long after the temporary prince and princesses of pop literature (Yes, I'm looking at your Foer brothers, etc) are dead and their novels pulped for the next 21st-century style of Ikea furniture, people are going to still be reading James Ellroy.
I read a review the other day where they took 10 or so sentences from this book and the sentences were beautiful and hung by each word.
I'm glad, however, that I read Ellroy's LA Quartet first.
Ellroy will beat you, love you, turn on you, and leave you for dead.
A Supercollider Story "In the jungle, the mighty jungleThe lion sleeps tonight.Wimoweh, wimoweh, wimoweh, wimoweh***Near the village, the peaceful village, The lion sleeps tonight."The Tokens, The Lion Sleeps Tonight, 1961Named by Time magazine as 1995's Best Fiction, American Tabloid is the literary equivalent of "packing heat and unloading." Written in a pugnacious style I haven't really read before, the book centers on 3 men: Kemper Boyd, a philandering FBI agent recruited by J. Edgar Hoover
"In the jungle, the mighty jungleThe lion sleeps tonight.Wimoweh, wimoweh, wimoweh, wimoweh***Near the village, the peaceful village, The lion sleeps tonight."The Tokens, The Lion Sleeps Tonight, 1961Named by Time magazine as 1995's Best Fiction, American Tabloid is the literary equivalent of "packing heat and unloading." Written in a pugnacious style I haven't really read before, the book centers on 3 men: Kemper Boyd, a philandering FBI agent recruited by J.
Kennedy's assassination, covering shakedowns, collusions, heroin, the Bay of Pigs, numerous hits and a treasonous "contract." In addition to the H's (Hoover, Hughes and Hoffa), the novel is filled with FBI and CIA officials, anti-Castro rebels, the Hollywood crowd, CIA officials, Cuban commies and various mobsters from New York, Chicago and Miami.
Okay, I will reluctantly post my first review here.
Up to now, I've never really felt the need to do my own reviews.
I'd rather leave that to the semi-professional book bloggers & "power users" out there.
Typically, once I finish a book, I merely post my take on whichever friends' reviews I happen to like the most.
The writing style is so jarring, and there is so much story here (it felt like 1000 pages crammed into 600), and some parts just didn't as interesting me.
(this was a diversion, something to transport)Much of the GR community shares a united front on American Tabloid, comparing it to meth or serial lines of blow, Ellroy is credited with thousands of pages of plot stripped down to slide into a mere 600 page volume.
The novel's chief created characters ( as opposed to the historical personages that the author stacks to the rafters) all occupy the opaque underworld of the FBI and the Syndicates.
A subplot involving the daughters of the G-men being friends is but a plot device, quickly discarded to no real effect.
edgar hoover, howard hughes] to low-level pawns ruthlessly manipulated by crooked cops, mafiosa and the like is as addictive as the uncut heroin that, in ellroy's world, finances world-stage events including the bay of pigs, the kennedy assasination, etc.think of _american tabloid_ as something like a fictional _people's history_ of 1959-1963, gore vidal on a really bad acid trip, or just what it claims to be: a tabloid rendering of critical moments in US history.the novel is definitely a "grower," with plot intrigue overshadowing ellroy's painfully hardboiled style only after several hundred pages that establish a web of CIA/FBI/Justice Department/Mafia/Cuban alliances and counter-alliances, enabling a deeply impressive scope and ambition for _american tabloid_.
This is the first Ellroy I've read, and it will likely be the last.
There is one neat bit of business following a character's slow arc from soft-skinned do-gooder alcoholic into revenge-driven killer.
But that character's evolution isn't near interesting enough.More the problem is the prose, which is written in a kind of Ellroy clipart style.
Every time someone in this book gets punched, that person spits out a tooth.
Or swallows a tooth.
Or (memorably) spits out a bit of bridgework.
Just about every time.
People love Ellroy, I get that.


It took me a while to get hooked, and then I was hooked, and it’s an American classic. I have no idea how I wound up caring about Pete Bondurant. And Kemper Boyd. And Ward Littell. It should not be possible. That’s Ellroy’s genius.
We'll see how Blood's a Rover goes, but overall I'm thinking James Ellroy is something I'd enjoyed much more eight years ago.
What percentage of (super-short, so you feel deliciously smart as you're chugging through them) chapters could be plotted in one line:{ Major character X momentary ally X minor character X ( brace | kill | twist!) }?Sure, the welling-up and breaking-down Reverse-Everyman is one of Ellroy's major points, but if you're going to talk about meanings and themes you must move into the realm of Serious Literature, which Mr. Ellroy decidedly is not.James Edgar Hoover as written by Ellroy is one of the most spectacular characters I've ever seen, though he benefits tremendously from foiling; one gets the feeling conversations with JEH, for all their trenchant brevity, consumed a majority of Ellroy's writing time (or were done in single drafts, either way -- as unforgettably recorded by Goodie Mob, "ain't no in-between you either off or on").
"L’America non è mai stata innocente. Abbiamo perso la verginità sulla nave durante il viaggio di andata e ci siamo guardati indietro senza alcun rimpianto. Non si può ascrivere la nostra caduta dalla grazia ad alcun singolo evento o insieme di circostanze. Non è possibile perdere ciò che non si ha fin dall’inizio." Non conosco il genere noir, ma so che Ellroy ne viene indicato come uno dei più grandi esponenti, se non il massimo. Come "horror" riferito a King e "giallo" riferito alla Christie,
Non si può ascrivere la nostra caduta dalla grazia ad alcun singolo evento o insieme di circostanze.
Non conosco il genere noir, ma so che Ellroy ne viene indicato come uno dei più grandi esponenti, se non il massimo.
Come "horror" riferito a King e "giallo" riferito alla Christie, l'etichetta noir mi sembra particolarmente riduttiva se affibiata all'autore di questo romanzo.Ellroy analizza l'America kennediana prestando particolare attenzione agli uomini che hanno facilitato l'ascesa di JFK al potere, che sono poi gli stessi che ne hanno permesso la caduta.
Il tutto narrato soltanto da tre punti di vista.Ellroy ci regala un'America corrotta fin nelle fondamenta, un'America che si regge sulla corruzione e sulla mafia e che senza di esse non può sopravvivere.
Wow. This was my first James Ellroy novel, and he did not disappoint.
On the contrary, I developed a major hard-on for his hard-assed prose, and his dark, morally ambiguous characters - gotta say Pete Bondurant is now one of my favorite fictional characters ever.
I loved this book so much I immediately began reading Ellroy's second part to this trilogy, "The Cold Six Thousand," just so I can see what kind of hinky shit Pete Bondurant and Ward Littell have gotten themselves into.
Like the milieus of Ellroy's other books, that of American Tabloid is a wicked, wicked, wicked world. Ellroy has created a new genre, the historical noir, that integrates these named genres but taking them to the nth power of brutality and evil. Like his other novels, there are cops, gangsters, movie stars and politicians, but there are no heroes, only characters seeking their agendas, working out their neuroses, brutalizing others, and in the end, just killing or dying. Yes, a wicked, wicked, wicked world it is.
With each successive book (beginning with the LA quartet), Ellroy refines his art. Style, entertainment and substance. A richly imagined, horrific, and hard-as-nails fantasy.
Near the end of the book, there is a clumsy attempt at giving each of the main characters a motivation, but by that point it is so late, and so much has happened, that it no longer matters.The plot is essentially a shaggy dog story.
He describes little actual action, and instead has the characters tell and retell each other what has happened, or is happening.However, even assuming the narrator is not Ellroy, there are two problems that fall purely in Ellroy's lap: the dialogue and the document inserts.
Re-reading ‘American Tabloid’ convinced me that after the obituary is published and we look back at James Ellroy’s career as a whole, it will probably be the LA crime novels which are seen as his greatest achievement.Not that there isn’t a lot of excellence in this more “political” tome (for want of a better adjective).
There are few modern writers who can capture criminal seediness with such aplomb, and here – just as in the LA crime novels – we get a cacophony of damaged, reprehensible characters whose best instincts are rarely even that good.
Obviously Ellroy wants you to understand his perspective, but his hatred is laid on in such thick portions that it begins to feel like you’re being harangued by a belligerent drunk.
La verginità perduta dell'America Di questo libro ho sentito parlare solo in due modi: 1) benissimo, 2) malissimo.Chi ne ha parlato malissimo si è lamentato per il numero dei personaggi, per la quantità di sotto trame, per il numero di pagine; insomma, particolari di carattere numerico. Penso in realtà che chi non è riuscito ad apprezzarlo abbia incontrato altri problemi, come per esempio l'incapacità di distinguere personaggi veri da quelli fittizi, vicende semi-vere da quelle vere. Chi ha poc
Penso in realtà che chi non è riuscito ad apprezzarlo abbia incontrato altri problemi, come per esempio l'incapacità di distinguere personaggi veri da quelli fittizi, vicende semi-vere da quelle vere.
Ellroy manipola intelligentemente la Storia creando la sua versione e non allontanandosi mai troppo dalla verità.
American Tabloid e i successivi due libri della trilogia sono un raffinato e mastodontico esperimento di fantapolitica creato muovendo le pedine giuste, facendo in modo che percorrano strade che forse nella realtà non hanno percorso, ma che in ultima analisi portano allo stesso risultato.
Non avevo mai letto Ellroy, ma posso dire che con questo romanzo si è conquistato un altro fervente ammiratore.
