https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/186270.The_Dynamic_Laws_of_Prosperity
Years before The Secret by Rhonda Byrne made The Law of Attraction popular, I came across this book while I in a psychiatric ward being treated for a manic episode of bipolar. Although this is a book about financial prosperity, it taught me to shift my focus from not getting sick to staying well. Before I learned this I had four hospital admissions for mania in five years. Now I've stayed well for twelve years. This book is gold and an absolute must-read.
به نظرم اگر به جای نوشتن یک مرور، دیگران را به مطالعه این کتاب دعوت کنم تا خودشون آن را مطالعه و مفاهیم آن را درک کنند، حداقل در مورد این کتاب، کار شایسته تر و باارزش تری هست.
I consider this to be a must read if you have any doubt that your creator wants you to be prosperous. Reverend Ponder is a Unity minister. She is the author of many books. This one presents a way of looking at your financial situation including your bills, being grateful and using affirmations to support you in becoming prosperous. The concept of the vision board from the movie "The Secret" is discussed in here and this book came out long before that movie.
I love this book. It changed my life...for the better. It has great affirmations on almost every subject. It taught me to create a vision board that all came to be within 1 year! Everytime I need to turn my negative thoughts around...I turn the pages of this book and find myself back in a positive frame of mind! Great bedside book.
شرح پشت جلد كتابقانون خلاقيت اين است كه به جاي اين كه آرزوهاي ديرين خود را با اين بهانه كه رؤياهايي محال هستند سركوب كنيد، به طرزي سازنده به آنها بنگريد. يعني بدانيد كه آرزوهاي راستين شما چيستند و آنگاه از آرزوهايتان فهرستي تهيه كنيد و به طور منظم به سراغ آنها برويد و در صورت لزوم آنها را عوض يا جا به جا كنيد. وقتي آرزوهايتان را مِنويسيد ، جايگاه ذهني آنها نيز منظم ميشود
شرح پشت جلد كتابقانون خلاقيت اين است كه به جاي اين كه آرزوهاي ديرين خود را با اين بهانه كه رؤياهايي محال هستند سركوب كنيد، به طرزي سازنده به آن‌ها بنگريد. يعني بدانيد كه آرزوهاي راستين شما چيستند و آن‌گاه از آرزوهايتان فهرستي تهيه كنيد و به طور منظم به سراغ آن‌ها برويد و در صورت لزوم آن‌ها را عوض يا جا به جا كنيد. وقتي آرزوهايتان را مِ‌نويسيد ، جايگاه ذهني آن‌ها نيز منظم مي‌شود
The Dynamic Laws of Prosperity, Catherine Ponderعنوان: قانون توانگری؛ نویسنده: کاترین پاندر؛ مترجم: گیتی خوشدل؛ تهران، البرز، 1370، در 345 ص، پاپ سی و چهارم 1388
Fantastic, life-altering book by the ever-inspiring Catherine Ponder, who in her wonderful Southern way, articulates and shares principles and affirmations for living an abundant life, including the most important step of opening our minds to prosperity in all its forms.
I also highly recommend the Audible version of this book, in Mrs. Ponder's voice, from a series of "tapes" recorded in the 1970s of her original seminars.
Don't settle for the other Audible version, which unfortunately is devoid of the depth and richness that only Catherine Ponder can convey.
This Audible version is a constant source of inspiration during my many hours driving here and there.
I have read well over 200 books in the success genre (mainly older volumes like this one) and Ponder is the most plain & thorough.Ponder explains that prosperity is God's will but that it requires beliefs and actions on our part.
This book was recommended to me a year ago and although I don’t quite know why it took me so long to read it, I’m so glad I finally decided to do so.
In hindsight, I should’ve picked it up right away given all the positive and insightful information it truly contains—and also maybe because the one who recommended it is none other than a psychic medium…?!
I honestly believe that many of its points were actually being proven true as I was reading the book; since I felt so inspired that I decided to do my best to follow as much of the advice as I could right away.
Very rarely have I read a book that started to have a positive, palpable effect--WHILE I was reading it; I usually have to digest it a bit, and maybe review certain parts.
It really increased my faith--especially in the way of prosperity thinking.
This clearly-written book, with many real-life examples-started a virtual FIRESTORM in my creative thinking, and really put me in the right, positive mindset in regard to my thinking about wealth.
And the book even promotes viewing our debt in a positive light, and showed how it helped professional debt collectors to clear up long-standing, stubborn accounts.
Written in 1962, this author was way ahead of her time. She discusses truths that people were oblivious to back then and are only now starting to discover and recognize as reality. Whenever I need some inspiration I pull out this book and read a chapter or two...or the whole thing. I always feel empowered and excited afterward. This book doesn't only discuss, money as the title may suggest. It covers all aspects of prosperity.
Amazing book helping me reframe my beliefs around money and the law of attraction.
I'm of two minds when it comes to this book...From a content perspective, I LOVED IT.
I also like how Dynamic Laws includes prayers and affirmations that help you focus on specific angles of prosperity.
I was able to move past them for the most part, but several times I caught myself wondering, "Why didn't an editor catch these mistakes?" As a whole, though, Dynamic Laws was the right book at the right time for me.
It's not one of the most well-written self-help books I've read, but I'm deeply grateful for its messages and won't forget its concepts anytime soon.
I could be wrong, but believe that this is the first book in the series.
The Secret by Rhonda Byrne has overtly taken many ideas from this book.
The idea is not new, the recipe is not new, but the book will likely hold its guts through the ages as humans are forever caught in a grasp of self inflicted despair and suffering.
Many are likely to love this book for its message that the reins of our destiny are in our own hands - if only we do not let the horses of luck drive our chariots of life any way it wants.
The book is very good for most anyone interested in the subject of prosperity. The author sites many examples in the Bible that helps convince the reader that prosperity is something that our maker wants us to obtain. The book is a little longer than I believe it needs to be. "The Four Spiritual Laws of Prosperity" by Edwene Gaines is more concise and to me is presented better. Gaines does give Ponder credit for being a major influence.
I have read several books on prosperity, and this was not my first introduction to this type of thinking. I have used the law of attraction to bring things into my life before, so I'm a firm believer the universe provides. Although there were tidbits that I liked, overall I found the inserted biblical references and the multitude of examples distracting. Again, maybe it's because this wasn't my first rodeo. I didn't feel like I needed to have examples hammered into my head.
One of my most used books in my personal library. When I first started to read this book 3 years ago I was barely in it and already things were changing for the good in my life. Now I keep it by my nightstand and whenever I need a boost or clarity I just close my eyes, ask for the right thing to read and randomly open the book to the perfect page. This is one of my favorite books.
Recommended by Robin Sharma...
when ever you want to have some thing you should first try to give some thing to others :-) if you help others, God will surely help you :-)
"Your persistence is your mental plow which helps you to break up those old failure attitudes of mind, which have previously kept success from you" (p.
The expression of "mental plow" is really powerful.
We human beings also need to continually renew ourselves mentally.
We need maintenance.
We need to feel reenergized each day we wake up and face life.
Life is supposed to be a challenge for all of us.
This book is a classic.
This review can be really lengthy because of all the uplifting sentences and passages it contains.
But this review is kept short on purpose.
Pick up this book and discover for yourself.
Along with my daily prayers, this book keeps me grounded and keeps me conscious of what I say and how I speak.
It has blessed my life in a tremendous way.
They say you are what you think.
Think you’re destined to fail and you will.
I have used positive affirmations to create positive changes in everything in my life from finances and career to my relationship with my husband and my family.
I live a positive life everyday and I speak positive outcomes to enhance my living.
I recommend to everyone and I am so blessed to have found this book.
Good but a bit repetitive at times. Basically your thoughts affect your life. She goes through like EVERY area of your life to go over this same principle. Could have been a lot shorter. Also the mantras were overwhelming. To make mantras work you should really just pick one. Overall good for your spirits and to change your energy. Wasn't bothered by the scripture quotes. Books by Joel osteen are worse.
A very smart friend said this was her favorite book about living from abundance. This book was written in the 1960s and has some great affirmations and lessons.
Practical applications of prosperity consciousness from a Christian perspective with illuminating examples and effective affirmations.
everyone should read this!
My feeling was that people who were prosperous (aka “rich”) worked hard and earned every penny.
note that the word “rich” means having an abundance of good or living a fuller, more satisfying life.
Indeed, you are prosperous to the degree that you are experiencing peace, health, happiness and plenty in your world.” (p 9)If there is a weakness to this book, it is within her examples of the amount of money people earn doing particular jobs and the cost of items—be it a loaf of bread, a car, or a house.
Catherine Ponder, considered one of America's foremost inspirational authors, uses prosperity secrets from the Bible, and encourages people to work with vision boards, wheels of fortune for imaging, affirmations (often in archaic language from the Bible), and prayer to achieve prosperity in all aspects of their lives.
I'd love to take the concepts and run with them; I've already started envisioning positive things for my son, and my social and entertainment category (mostly travel dreams), but I need to decide EXACTLY what I want for my work and spiritual life and start envisioning and affirming it!
An inspirational book yet one that is not such a new concept.
I listened to the audio version and although at times the recording was a bit scratchy and even inaudible, I got the gist of what Ms. Ponder was trying to say.
It is a very positive book and that is what I really got from this book, the power of positive thinking.
In today's world, it is not such a new concept, but I suppose without Ms. Ponder bringing this way of thinking to the forefront so long ago, we may not have such a mindset.
I really liked the book but have a hard time giving it more than three stars because of how dated the writing is.
You can almost see the fin tailed cars out the window while reading it; the 50's are alive and well in it.Putting that aside the message in the book is fantastic and one that it is good to hear often: our mental attitude is the great shaper in our reality.
I would put this book up there with other great inspirational tomes like "The Richest Man in Babylon," "As a Man Thinketh" and "Think and grow rich".
This was a book recommended to me.
I wasn't expecting it to be of the 60s, and I really was not expecting it to be so chock full of talk of God and the Bible.
Not that it turns me off, but it was not expected.
This is also the first prosperity book that I have read.A very quick read, despite my reading time (I don't have much, incidentally).
Much of what the author talks about makes sense to me.
Maybe after I put a few of these ideas into practice I will be able to rate this book 5 stars.
