https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53086.The_Dictionary_of_Imaginary_Places
More of a novelty than anything else, the Dictionary of Imaginary Places is just that...
a big fat alphabetized compendium of places that exist only in legends and myths and novels and other stories.
Annotations.""And this whole sheet stuffed in there?""I was trying to see what it would look like with my Imaginary Place in there."It's a good time.
And it's useful if you need to quickly brush up on who resides at Locus Solus, or the location of Valinor in relation to Middle-earth, or which countries surround Oz. But if you want to get in-depth, best to put down the Dictionary and dig into primary sources.
This is an absolutely fabulous book for anyone of any age. If you're capable of letting your mind wander to far off and completely fictional places, you'll be entranced immediately. Its the kind of thing you read a few pages of before bed to ensure charming and enchanting dreams.
First of all it took places described in a range of literary works as literally true by giving each a Baedeker-style travel guide entry.
Then, like any good Baedeker it provided maps and charts giving visual aids to familiar and unfamiliar locations.
Some maps from 1980 needed revision (Narnia, for example, had some crucial omissions and misplacements), but their consistent olde-worlde look (with hachures rather than contour lines, for instance, and Renaissance-style typefaces) is charming and lends character to the whole presentation.In addition to the alphabetical listing of places, the authors include an index of authors and titles to help you cross reference.
Os mundos de Oz e Dr. Doolittle não são tão interessantes quanto o peso que têm neste livro.
Apesar do livro não estar ordenado de forma cronológica, nota-se que há uma evolução das geografias imaginárias.
A tónica está na mensagem que os autores pretendiam inculcar nos seus leitores, e não na coerência dos mundos ficcionais.
Um elemento que se altera, com a ficção a explorar estas geografias do imaginário apenas pelo prazer de criar novos mundos, algo que caracteriza a fantasia de hoje.
If you're like me and you hate going to the internet whenever you read about Graustark or Islandia...this is the book for you. It's a phonebook sized compendium of every fantastic land. More recent updates include Hogwarts. Worth buying for the entry on Oz alone. (Probably not worth paying full price for, but usually fairly easy to find in used bookstores)

The title pretty much sums it up - this is an encyclopedia of imaginary places ranging from the fantastical (Middle Earth, Narnia, Wonderland) to the more realistic (Treasure Island, Robinson Crusoe's island, Xanadu).
In fact, this dictionary is worth looking at just for the extensive descriptions of Middle Earth and Narnia.
The authors treat every location as though it actually exists, which is part of the fun of reading it.
The only downside is that my copy is outdated and doesn't contain some of the more recent fantastical locations that have popped up in fiction, such as Hogwarts.
One of my favorite books for browsing. An inexhaustible index of imaginary lands in literature from The Grand Duchy of Fenwick to Burrough's Pellucidar to Carroll's Wonderland. Many entries are illustrated with maps and all come with detailed descriptions of the lands. The fact that the writers treat these entries like they are real places that you may travel to, simply lends a delightful air in the enjoyment of this book. I've had this book since its first publication in 1987 and I never fail to find something new each time I pick it up.
It's not really a dictionary; some parts are written like a tour guide, others more of an atlas. The entries describe locations from fantasy novels, from Gulliver's travels through Harry Potter. I noticed it included a few of Calvino's invisible cities, and some lands that Borges described, which is appropriate for such a Borgesian enterprise. The maps and illustrations are well done. It's a fun way to browse for new things to read. If you're willing to put up with an older edition (no Hogwarts), you can find it for just a few bucks.
A vast and entertaining encyclopedia of invented places, from Homer to the Marx Brothers' movies and Borges' Urnland, where the whole of literature and language "consists of one word, undr, which means 'wonder' and is sometimes represented by a fish and sometimes by a red pole and a disc. In that word, each and any listener will recognize his labours, his loves, his secret acts, the things he has seen, the people he has known - everything." With detailed maps and drawings.
This book is absolutely amazing, it is insightful, and it is a must-have for anyone attempting to write fantasy. included are: - mythical places like Valhalla and Hades - classical locations like Thomas More's Utopia, the places in Jonathan Swift's Gulliver's Travels... - EVERYWHERE in the Middle Earth universe! (that alone deserves 5 stars) - and recent locations, like J.K. Rowling's Hogwarts!!! Ohhh and the pictures are wonderful, too!
This is an entertaining read, great fun. It's not anywhere near exhaustive, though, which is understandable given the subject matter. The authors try to cover all of the major imaginary worlds in literature, and world literature at that, not just anglophone. Maybe it would be good to have several different volumes, each one devoted to a different nation or language.
The perfect dictionary for anyone who's a dreamer. You don't need to be a fantasy or sci-fi fan (I'm not) to appreciate this astonishing book, which opens the doors to a myriad of imaginary places you wish you could go right now. The depth of the author's knowledge is breathtaking, and he writes about those places in the most delightful way.
I certainly haven't read all of this voluminous book. It’s somewhat akin to reading and reviewing an encyclopedia, which is precisely what this book is. I was pleased to find the entries on places I’ve already read of in books, but I’m most excited about the prospect of discovering new books to read by referencing them in this book.
A pretty interesting (and international!) compendium of imagined worlds. Not exactly complete by any means, even for the most recent update (1999), but still fun to poke through. Definitely worth the $9.99 I originally paid for it off the Waldenbooks bargain pile.
An interesting, if quirky, volume. While many mainstays of fantasy are represented -- Tolkien, Baum, etc. -- many entries are of obscure 18th and 19th century European authors who very few have heard of.
BUT he does not include the Land of Green Ginger, so I immediately lost interest in this book.
Yes, The Tale of the Land of Green Ginger is indeed a rare book, not often read today.
But it remains a children's classic (it's by Noel Langley, by the way) and to not have this imaginary place included put me right off the book.
That said, if someone needs a reference book (for whatever odd reason your life kicks up and presents you with this lack), it's a handy book to have, I suppose.
Un pratico Baedeker dedicato al dilatato universo della finzione, una guida a paesi irreperibili sulle aride carte della geografia ufficiale...http://www.piegodilibri.it/libri-disp...
I kept this on my bedside table for years to impress chicks. they thought it was cool but TLDR.READ THE ENTRY FOR "X" a kafka steam punk slum full of industrial surplus and bad wiring.
I read this book cover to cover this year. I didn't retain much besides there are a ton of books set ~inside the earth~
I have the hardcover of this book, and it is amazing. I love all the places with descriptions. Wonderful book for all!
https://eliaspallanzanivive.wordpress...
I have a much older version of this book in hard cover
Unprecedented, witty, and utterly delightful, this encyclopedia of magical worlds uses a tongue-in-cheek, tour guide sensibility combined with a genunine love for its source material, which together are incredibly effective. It remains equally engaging whether flipped through at one's leisure or read straight through, and also serves as a enlightening survey of the worlds we create, over centuries. Much can be said about humans by looking at their Utopias and Dystopias, and the proliferation of each in this book, as well as of far more balanced worlds such as Tolkien's Middle Earth, makes for a fascinating study.
this was a magical find for me years ago and it's uniqueness in the world of giant reference books is begging for me to get an updated version in hard back.
there exists one other giant tome in the category of fantasy literature.
while it contains more granular information, Imaginary Places stands as a more playful resource.
plenty of maps, drawings and geographical information can be looked up about Mordor, Oz and many other places.
Make sure you have plenty of room on your bookshelf, because Imaginary Places is a very large book.
I love owning it for its information and obscure yet welcome existence.
This is just a fun reference guide to a nearly endless list of imagined places. It sticks pretty strictly to literature and mythology (because, seriously, the editors would be researching it forever otherwise), so no Fortress of Solitude or Galaxy Far, Far Away. You can't have everything. I spent hours flipping through it when I first got it and still do on occasion. There aren't many places where you can easily flip back and forth between compendiums of knowledge on the Land of Oz and Middle-Earth!
This book lived up to all of my expectations. It is in a dictionary format and, therefore, can't be expected to go into depth about each of the many magical lands that it documents. I use it as a reference for ideas and inspiration, but then branch out to other sources when I want specific details about any of the places it covers. It is a beautiful thick, hardcover that I find, not only informative, but a wonderful edition to the shelves of any folklore or fantasy enthusiast.
A mostly pointless, and entirely wonderful book. It is exactly what it says on the tin - a reference book to places from fantasy novels. 800 pages of that. With maps and illustrations. Your immediate reaction to that description probably says a lot about you as a person.It's not something you'd ever sit down and read from beginning to end, but I'm delighted that it now sits on my bookshelf, and that it exists.
Wonderful book including details of a plethora of fictional places we read about every single day. Included copious maps of places like Oz, Middle Earth, Atlantis and soo many more obscure mythical places. This book hasn't been updated in a while, but I keep my copy around for nostalgia and also the articles on the fictitious cities are very informative not to mention entertaining.
The armchair explorer's guide to the geography of imaginative literature. I thought I knew some of the places well, but I learned more when I saw them through Manguel's eyes. This book could be a resource for writers, but it's mainly just fun.
