https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/190565.The_Will_to_Meaning
It is less autobiographical than Man's Search for Meaning and may disappoint some who are looking for emotional impact.
However, for those who are looking to deepen their understanding of Frankl's concept of meaning it's a must read.
Also, Frankl is a man who clearly understands his place in psychology (Freud - will to pleasure, Adler - will to power, Frankl - will to meaning).
Frankl's comparison of his work to that of Freud, Adler, and others helped put the development of psychology as a discipline in perspective.
I assert that Frankl knew that logotherapy would never become part of the psychology establishment.
بغض النظر إذا كنت أختلف مع كل ما جاء في هذا الكتاب، أو أتفق، ومع وجود تلك الثغرات في منطقه، إلا أن الطرح جاء شبه مكرر، ورتيب شيئاً ما، ولا يختلف في النقاط الأساسية عن كتابه "الإنسان يبحث عن معنى".2.5 نجمتان ونصف .. لنفس العبارات التي شدت انتباهي وجاءت بنمط مشابه في كتابه الآخر :)
I finished reading Viktor Frankl's book "Man's Search for Meaning", and then started looking for more of his books to read.
This books is EXCELLENT and I would recommend it for reading after "Man's Search for Meaning".
I am already starting on a 2nd reading.This book is more of an indepth explanation of Frankl's approach to psychology called "Logotherapy".
Logotherapy may justly be called optimistic, because it shows the patient how to transform despair into triumph."This book is excellent because it DOES face reality, and shows you that your attitude towards your circumstances can transform suffering into a hopeful achievement.
كان رائع في بداياته خصوصاً جزئية أطوار أو أبعاد الانسان.. ثم أصبح تكرار لكتابه الآخر الانسان يبحث عن المعنى..

The combination of excessive reductionism and grasping after effects when one should be seeking causes has created fertile ground for what Frankl considers the major psychological issue of our time: the incredible expansion of the “existential vacuum,” a void without meanings to fall back on, an expansion perpetuated and accelerated by the nature of the modern global zeitgeist, in both East and West.Having established that these neuroses can exist—that a frustration of “spirit,” of meaning, a.k.a. noogenic disorder can be a pathological condition in its own right in comparison to physiochemical (“somatogenic”) and mental/emotional (“psychogenic”)—he proceeds to discussing when and how it is appropriate to apply logotherapy.
After Freud, this is such a refreshing and sensible look at psychology! Frankl's theories embrace the hopes and aspirations all humans are born with.
والثاني هو تطبيقات العلاج بالمعنى.يعيد فرانكل في الجزء الأول ما سبق له أن قام بشرحه على أكمل وجه في كتابه "الإنسان يبحث عن المعنى" فيشرح المباديء الأساسية التي يبنى عليها العلاج بالمعنى وهي: حرية الإرادة، إرادة المعنى، معنى الحياة.
بل إن فرانكل يقر بأن العلاج بالمعنى من الممكن أن يوعز إلى شخص غير مختص بالطب بشكل عام كي يمارس هذا العلاج لمن يحتاجه.
كما أن السيد فرانكل أكد لنا وفي أكثر من موقع بأن العلاج بالمعنى ليس بالضرورة أن يكون فعالاً مع كل الحالات كما أنه قد لا يكفي وحده.
كخلاصة، يمكننا القول بأن الجزء الثاني من هذا الكتاب هو مكمل لما قرأناه من كتاب الإنسان يبحث عن المعنى..
A bit heavy on jargon and academic references (most of which are outdated now), I recommend this book only for those who are really interested in logotherapy. For most, it's better to start with Frankl's "Man's Search for Meaning," which gives a nice overview of logotherapy in lay terms.
Meaningful. A re-re-re-re-read!
جميلجميل❤
ينتقل بك المؤلف ما بين مفهوم المعنى من منظورات عدة الى تقسيمات للقيم اطلاقا من المفهوم بحسب ما يعطيه وما يأخذه وما الموقف الذي يتخذه ثم ينتقل بك الى مفهوم الفراغ الوجودي واسبابه ثم الى فنيات العلاج بالمعنى وتطبقاته كتاب مهما تحدثت عنه يبقى ما تقوله رؤوس اقلام وتحتاج الى دفتر وقلم للتلخيص وترتيب الافكار ..
عالم نفس يهودي متدينمؤسس مدرسة فيينا الثالثةالطريقة التي شرح بها فنيات وتطبيقات العلاج بالمعنى كانت عصيىة على الفهملكن الفصل الذي تحدث فيه عن العلاقة بين اللاهوت وعلم النفس كانت أكثر من رائعة
سلامٌ أيها الرجاء!
Just as I was getting frustrated by a contemporary book on evolutionary psychology that treats the human brain as nothing but a computer, Frankl comes to the rescue: "...in a certain sense the statement is valid: man is a computer.
The statement is erroneous only insofar as man is defined as 'nothing but' a computer." What I also found fascinating is his concept of "dimensional ontology," where he uses a three-dimensional cup as projected onto lower dimensions: it would look like a rectangle on one surface and a circle on another.
Frankl has an engaging and personable voice.
The book struggles a bit with the space between philosophy, which more appropriately describes logotherapy, and psychotherapy.
In addition, the analogies that he offers to illustrate his ideas (with accompanying illustrations) often seem to drive the concepts further into the realm of abstraction instead of making them clearer to the reader.
I would recommend this book wholeheartedly to anyone with an interest in psychology or philosophy.
gives more of Frankl's amazing personal story that led him to formulate some of this theories (or at least to do so more intensively).
Even though I do not have any proper background in psychology, I find Frankl's 'Will to Meaning" even more immediate, communicative and valuable than I expected. It does not provide you with easy answers , but at least it gives you a framework, I would say a "humanistic" one, thanks to which you can conceive and establish your personal view of man (personal anthropology) and of life (personal theology/eschatology).
A hard book to read due to subject content. But even harder to stop. It can be read in one sitting. And is one worth rereading every few years.
نتمنى ان نلتقيك في الجنة ..
Self-transcendence by love and being conscious and therefore is able to seize a meaning in any situation.With these two qualities, man raises from somatic dimension or psychic dimension into a higher one - noetic dimension (spiritual dimension, even though Frankl did not like to use this term).The Second Pillar: The Will to MeaningThe will to meaning can be defined “as the basic striving of man to find and fulfill meaning and purpose.”“The homeostasis principle does not yield a sufficient ground on which to explain the human behavior” such as “the creativity of man, which is oriented toward values and meaning.” That’s why human behavior is not driven by the will to meaning; man is pulled, not pushed toward meaning.
Moreover, Frankl indicates that each of these concepts involves issues particular to their presentation; viz., the freedom of will involves the tension between determinism and pan-determinism; the will to meaning is expressed as distinct from Sigmund Freud’s “will to pleasure,” and Alfred Adler’s “will to power;” and that the meaning of life expresses itself in the paradox between subjectivism and relativism.Concurrent with this foundational explanation, Frankl discusses the applications of Logotherapy through a tri-part division.
These applications indicate that Logotherapy can be applied to treat a multitude of disorders.There was a particular presentation in the book that I found exceptional to mention in this review.
Frankl goes the other way and tries to ego-boost your aimless finitude.At the same time I profusely resent the idea of the assumption experts handling priest affairs and welcome a more thougthful and humane approach towards self surrender to legal theft.I want to love this book, seems like the decent thing to do, but feel as if Frankl was not right to talk so briefly and sporadically about the flipside.
God feels cheaper than a bag of air, if you throw him like THAT.
READ DEC 2017This is a nice companion to Frankl's original, "Man's Search for Meaning."Best quotes, "Approaching human beings merely in terms of techniques necessarily implies manipulating them, and approaching them merely in terms of dynamics implies reifying them, making human beings into mere things" (p.
4); quoting Freud, "men are strong as long as they stand for a strong idea" (p.
30); "man's heart is restless unless he has found, and fulfilled, meaning and purpose in life" (p.
37); "A human being, by the very attitude he chooses, is capable of finding and fulfilling meaning in even a hopeless situation" (p.


Gros coup de coeur pour ce livre. La logothérapie est une école de la psychothérapie que je ne connaissais pas, mais qui me rejoint beaucoup. Je suis tombée dessus par hasard, après quelques recherches à la suite d'une discussion avec une amie sur l'importance de trouver un sens à son travail, ou au contraire de trouver un travail qui a un sens. Je songe à m'acheter ce livre pour pouvoir m'y référer au besoin. Mieux encore, il se lit comme un roman.
يعتبر الجزء الثاني لكتاب " الانسان يبحث عن المعنى " وبيرسخ لنفس الفكرة .. فكرة وجود معنى للحياة المختلف فى الكتاب هو مقارنة تلك الفكرة أو المدرسة بمدارس أخرى وكمان طرح المدرسة كطريقة منفردة للعلاج النفسي أو طريقة مكملة لطرق أخرى في العلاج خلاصة الكتاب في الفصل التالت في الحوار اللي دار بين دكتور فرانكل وأحد المرضى
Ukoliko mislite da će vam ova knjiga pružiti patetične savete i prolaznu utehu- varate se. Ovo genijalno delo Viktora Frankla je jednostavno, a opet sadržajno uputstvo za suočavanje sa životnim problemima.
اي شخص يحتاج ان يفهم العلاج بالمعنى, عليه ان يقراء هذا الكتاب. من اكثر ما اثر في فكرة ان شرحة لكيف على الانسان يرى معاناته منفردة و مميزة عن معانات الشخص الاخر, و ان المعنى ستجدة داخل الالم و الصراع و داخل المعناة .ايضا فكرة ان العصابي يستطيع ان يعرف الله و يتعامل معه, رغم ضعفة و مشاكل النفسية.
الجزء الأول من الكتاب (نصفه)، تقريبًا لا جديد فيه وسبق ذكر مجمل ما فيه في كتاب "الإنسان يبحث عن المعنى"!
