https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8535.In_the_Frame
The cousin's wife, who apparently surprised the burglars by coming home unexpectedly, has been murdered.
The police suspect that he may have had his own home burgled and his wife killed in order to collect a large insurance settlement.Todd, of course, knows that this is a nonsensical idea.
In something of a lucky accident, Todd then discovers that someone else he knows had recently bought a similar painting in Australia.
His cousin Donald has turned basically catatonic as a result of the death of his wife and in an effort to help him and to get him out from under the suspicions of the police, Todd flies to Australia and begins investigating the events from that angle.
A tension filled, dangerous game of cat and mouse by my favorite author, Dick Francis!
He came swiftly from the sitting room in his dark blue uniform, took me by the arm, and swung me strongly and unceremoniously back toward the door.
******This review is for the audiobook edition of In the Frame by Dick Francis, narrated by Ralph Cosham.
Narrator, Ralph Cosham, has a natural flair for story-telling and I really liked his ability to use different accents for the characters making it very easy to follow what's happening, earning him 5★'s for his performance of this book.
When I was a teen, my Mom gave me a Dick Francis  novel.
As I've already read about two dozen of his books, this isn't really a surprise, and what others may call predictable and repetitive in his characterization and plotting I call reliable, dependable and comfortably familiar.But Francis does like to use again and again certain techniques and certain types of heroes and villains, so the best way to differentiate between his stories is by the profession of the main character and by the sometimes touristical trivia of his chosen location, when the action moves overseas.
The mystery itself is typical Francis fare; so much so, in fact, that I spotted the villain on his first appearance.
There's a generous dollop of violence, the villain is a bit deranged, but at least that side isn't drawn out (which I objected to in several other Francis novels).
A good bit of research, as always - this time into painting - and I absolutely admire the way the researched facts are handled, not ladled out if large helpings, stopping the plot for a time, but sprinkling them here and there to create a truly authentic flavour.There's no actual racing here, however.
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
Not the most exciting of mysteries, but still decent for what it was.
My favourite Dick Francis mystery, although I think Whip Hand is the best.
So reliable, an intrepid hero, horse racing, crime and all so easy to read
Synopsis When Charles Todd visits his cousin, Donald, he lands unexpectedly right in the middle of a major crisis: a burgled house, Donald's young wife, Regina, brutally murdered, Donald himself prostrated by grief, almost at his wit's end. What's even worse the police inspector instead of looking for a murderer starts accusing Donald of orchestrating the whole burglary to profit financially from it and help his ailing firm. Charles is outraged by their approach but what can be done? Especially
Especially that shocked Donald doesn't even think of defending himself efficiently.Returning to London Todd, who earns his living as a painter specializing in horses, is hired by Maisie to immortalize her burned house on canvass.
The same can be said about his friend Jik - although he is a man of a completely different temperament and style, he and Todd understand each other perfectly well mainly because they share the same way of thinking.It was a nice change that Todd wasn't made to fall in love during his investigation.
This book changed my life. I discovered it in 1977, quit the government job I was working at the time, and went to work in the horse industry so I could experience the horse world firsthand. I worked with and owned horses for 25 years, all because of this book.
Many of the later Dick Francis novels I bought (I've all but 2 or 3) were read but once, and I had little recollection of this, bought sometime after 1996 (the particular edition n/a on Goodreads) and before visiting Australia and NZ myself.They not the main reason for enjoyment though - such a joy to read a tale told with clarity; simplicity where intended and omissions where necessary for tension.
Good read!
I listened to the audiobook from the library. This murder mystery novel has art, murder, theft, and travel. Charles Todd is an artist of horses, but he travels the world to prove his cousin innocent of murder. Recommended.
Charles Todd is a painter, mostly of horses.
He goes to visit his cousin only to find that their house has just been burgled and his cousin's wife murdered.
Charles stays with his cousin, trying to help him deal with insurance, police, the clean up.
But as time passes, it becomes clear that the investigation is stalled and his cousin is falling into a deep depression.
Charles decided to take matters into his own hands and follows the clues to Australia.Like all Dick Francis books, the pace moves pretty quickly, with lots of physical dangers and several horse races.

Another really great mystery from Dick Francis!
Any Dick Francis book gets five stars from me.
He aspires to nothing higher, but when his cousin's wife is murdered and several other people he knows report being burgled, he ends up heading off to Australia to try to track down the culprits, where he teams up with a friend from art school and gets into exciting situations during the Melbourne Cup.While lightly sketched, "In the Frame" showcases Francis's feeling for color, something seen clearly for the first time in "Enquiry," and developed more fully here.
It contrasts the sunny holiday world of Australia during the Melbourne Cup with gloomy autumnal England, where Charles's cousin sits at home brooding over his wife's murder.
When I first read this eons ago I loved it so much, but this time around it fell a bit flat. I still loved the aussie slang bit, but so much of the communication of the day (1976) dates the story and actually detracted from the enjoyment of it for me. Also, it's a pretty depressing set of circumstances and as a teen, I don't think I understood the depths of grief like I do now. So rather than seeing it as a great DF romp, it actually depressed me. I was pretty shocked that I'd react that way.
Thoroughly enjoyable but not, I think, Francis's best work. I don't mind the fact that his books adhere to a formula, but this one never seemed to develop fully enough to really bring the formula to life. However, I did enjoy the Australian setting and the interactions between Jik and Todd, and I thought that Sarah's character was skillfully drawn. She wasn't a caricature. She progressed through very natural suspicion, reluctance, fear, courage, and affection.
Like other Francis novels, this book revolves around the horse racing world. Charles Todd is a horse painter, who finds himself trying to solve some problems on his cousin's behalf. There is a good degree of suspense in trying to figure out the case and the way that the various characters overlap and interact. The moral and upright main character is compelling and the events are interesting. Overall this is an enjoyable and fast read.
This was a good light hearted mystery novel. I can say I liked it, even though, having just fractured my shoulder this past summer (skateboarding), I physically cringed at the idea of getting out of bed and doing all the things our main character did as soon as he did. No way! The fracture in my shoulder was considered hairline and I was unable to turn my head without excruciating pain for at least two weeks. Ah well, that's fiction for you.
This was not a bad read. The major problem was the ability of the main protagonist to recover from what I know from personal experience and observation would be debilitating injuries like a major broken bone.
It’s been a while since I read a Dick Francis - and from memory I have read a few and thought them quite good. His USP is crime set amongst the horse racing fraternity. So in their parlance, this was a bit of an “also ran” that unimpressively limped home.
Excellent. If you're a fan of Francis this is great stuff. And for once, he takes the time to continue the narrative after the baddie is unveiled in order to deal with Charles's brother's ongoing grief.
My first Duck Francis book and I was not disappointed, although horses and horse racing are only peripheral to the plot. Tightly written and fast paced. A good mystery about art theft, forgery, burglary and murder. I'll red more Francis.
Although not especially about horse racing, this Dick Francis novel is a good representation of his writing and the mysteries within the lives of his characters.Read in spurts and starts due to leaving it at a friends home after housesitting.
Intersting plot; good entertainment.Glad I was not the one trying to find the culprit.
Fabulous Francis.
Mostly fun for the depiction of 1976 Australia and New Zealand.
