https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/314263.For_Your_Eyes_Only
(A-) 81% | Very GoodNotes: James Bond meets willful women who defy men, hunt men, shame men, lure men and kill men to varying outcomes.
"Life is a devious business."- Ian Fleming, "Quantum of Solace"After having read about 7 of his novels, this was the first set of Fleming short stories I ran into, as I moved up the Bond collection.
For Your Eyes Only contains the following stories:1.
The Hildebrand RarityThe first three titles would probably be familiar to anyone who has watched more than a couple James Bond films over the last 20 years.
Not so it isn't recognizable.
They are still all Fleming novels and ALL James Bond stories.
But they each, in different ways, bring a bit of humanity into the Bond collection.
But the women who Bond ends up loving, caring about, wanting to marry, respecting (as much as Bond can respect a woman) and consequently, the ones who seem to also excite him the most sexually are the ones who are worldly in some way.So, to sum up, even though Bond calls Judy “bitch” a few times in this book, and curses her overwhelming need and determination to (view spoiler)[avenge her parents' death by murdering von Hammerstein (hide spoiler)], he actually is quite impressed and enchanted by her.
The movie doesn't follow the book's plot particularly closely, adding stuff from another short story, inventing stuff...but what the hey, why should this one be different?It's a standard revenge-action-espionage flick.
from Wikimedia on a Commons licenseSo yeah, being a little sarcastic there, but this film brings out the snark in me.
Simon Templar does his smirking best as Bond.
Carole Thingummy, as Melina, was ~meh~ but the story was more involving and less superhero-suspend-all-disbelief-ye-who-enter-here and so a big relief to see.Sheena Easton sang For Your Eyes Only, another ubiquitous Bond theme.
Bah. She's better than that.Oh yeah, For Your Eyes Only.
This is a collection of Bond short stories, set in Ian Fleming’s James Bond world of secret agents, super villains and women with colorful names.
First published in 1960, this continues the exploration of the character and world building.From A View to a Kill – Bad guys are sabotaging a British signal and message run (on motorcycles) and Bond investigates and steps in to take care of business.
More examples of how Fleming’s Bond was more human, more vulnerable and ultimately more of a hero than in the films.
Quantum of Solace – The most intriguing entry as this is not really a Bond story.
For Your Eyes Only is the eighth book in Ian Fleming’s James Bond spy thriller series, a collection of five short stories, "From a View to a Kill," "For Your Eyes Only," "Quantum of Solace," "Risico," and "The Hildebrand Rarity,” all of which had parts to play in various film adaptations.
“For Your Eyes Only" is the story of Bond doing a favor for his boss, M, whose friends, the Havelocks, have been killed by an ex-Gestapo officer, von Hammerstein, who had wanted to buy a Jamaican estate.
I can't see where this'll work." In fact, none of the five stories are, strictly speaking, spy stories.
In "From a View to a Kill," James Bond patiently finds who murdered a SHAPE courier by becoming one himself and luring the assassin.The title story is a plain and simple revenge murder at M's behest of a gangster who killed two dear old friends of his in Jamaica.My favorite story is "Quantum of Solace," in which 007 finds out from the governor of the Bahamas why it is not such a great idea to marry an airline stewardess."Risico" finds Bond trying to help the Americans nail a European drug dealer -- except that the enemy turns out to be an ally; and the ally, an enemy.Finally, "The Hildebrand Rarity" contains an unsolved but utterly deserving murder of a cruel American billionaire.
These five stories are as good as anything Fleming has written.
However, the novel far surpasses any film in that we see Bond's logic and internal monologues, complete with banal asides and notes of the local atmosphere and environs, something sadly lacking on the silver screen.
As well, (go figure) Hollywood ratcheted the sex appeal more than a few notches; at best in the novels Bond glances at a girl and analyzes her.
While the story never captured my attention (Hollywood does a cleaner job of connecting all the dots of and tying them all back to one super-villain), Bond novels may become my summer reading of choice.
As with all collections of short stories, the quality varies. Not the strongest collection.
Taken in isolation, the tales in this collection would probably look like shaggy dog stories.
When you read that tale – placed right in the middle – you remember that sense of weariness in ‘From a View to a Kill’, before encountering the strange rumination on murder and revenge that is ‘The Hildebrand Rarity’.Of course there are the normal Bond traits, an underground base in ‘From a View to a Kill’, exploding yachts and shoot-outs in ‘For Your Eyes Only’.
And so if you just dipped into the collection and read the stories in whatever order over a long period, you might miss the changing sense of character that runs through this book.
The stories are good but dated. James Bond is a first class agent but a complete arse with a deplorable attitude to women (although that is mainly a front as he adores strong women with pluck!). Outrageous shenanigans in the name of saving the Brits! Enjoyable but ludicrous ;)
Forget ever James Bond movie you ever saw when you read the books. These are much more a mystery/adventure story. Recommended
Ah well like any other short stories collection few are good few are just ok few are plain weird.
First three stories have the names which have been used for the movie but they have nothing to with these short stories.
Three of the five stories are the ones where Bond does something against some baddie.
But two of them are just weird.
Well it's an OK collection and well at least Mr. Fleming tried something new with the character he created.
Well if also want to read through Bond series or not then pick it and make your own decisions and then just Keep on Reading.
The story is fast paced and generally exciting, and features an incredible amount of travelogue detail to add to its realism.The collection concludes with "The Hildebrand Rarity," which initially appeared in the March 1960 issue of "Playboy." Like "Quantum of Solace," this is not really a secret agent tale, but rather an adventure that Bond is involved in, after investigating certain security arrangements in the Seychelle Islands for the British Admiralty.
It was bound to happen that eventually there would be a collection of stories that included titles of movies my brother and I haven't (re)watched yet.
So, whatever, I'll figure something else out after we watch A View to a Kill and Quantum of Solace and whatever else is totally ruined for me because I read the story first which is not what this project is about anyway.I really sort of liked the movie of For Your Eyes Only.
I would have liked to have read the book that I feel should have been For Your Eyes Only and Risico together.
It sees Bond on a minor mission which doesn't include world domination.- Quantum of Solace is a non-spy related story.
Bond's approach to killing is also dissected in "For Your Eyes Only" whilst the morality of killing is a theme in "The Hildebrand Rarity".Bond's relationship with M is studied in "For Your Eyes Only", with Bond taking a difficult decision for M.
Contrast this to Bond’s love of the finer things in life.As a fan of the Bond movies I could recognise the story elements and titles which ended up in the films For Your Eyes Only (1981), A View to a Kill (1985), Licence to Kill (1989) and Quantum of Solace (2008).So in summary, while these stories are out of the ordinary they could have been better.
Unlike the previous Bond books, this one is a collection of short stories rather then a novel.
I only found the title short story interesting.The short story "For Your Eyes Only" is only one I liked in this collection.
I didn't so much like the first part of the story, but I loved the fact that most of the story took place in Vermont.
If this was just the story "For Your Eyes Only" and with more about Vermont, then I'd be in love with this book.
Yet there is only one story I really liked.
Where Fleming’s novels up to this point in the series deal in memorable characters, exotic locations described in cinematic details, and a protagonist who has an almost super-human ability to get himself out of a tight spot, the short stories collected in For Your Eyes Only highlight a number of different qualities in Fleming’s writing.
There is, for my money, more tension in the climactic moments of From A View To a Kill and For Your Eyes Only, and even the seemingly unassuming subject matter of Quantum of Solace is written in such a way as to draw the reader into it as with the other stories.
As noted before I was young when I read the Bond books and this one (a collection of short stories) made less of an impression on me. I rated it lower as the enjoyment value was (for me) less. Interesting side note among the titles as well as For Your Eyes Only was: From a View to a Kill a part of which title was used for a movie (Roger Moore) and also Quantum of Solace the movie by that name shares nothing with the story.
2017 Jamaica Challenge #1: The National Bird of Jamaica is............On the colorful book cover of this Ian Fleming novel, you can clearly see the bird.  The most beautiful bird in Jamaica, and some say the most beautiful bird in the world, is the streamer-tail or doctor humming-bird. The cock bird is about nine inches long, but seven inches of it are tail - two long black feathers that curve and cross each other and whose inner edges are in a form of scalloped design. The head and crest are bl
Ian Fleming, the author of the James Bond stories, wrote most of his works in Jamaica.
This was the first time for me to read a book by him and I'm quite surprised how James Bond is depicted more complex than in the Hollywood movies.
This book contains 5 short stories:From A View To Kill: Set in Paris, this action-packed short story was too fast for me.
One star *.For Your Eyes Only: Set in Jamaica and the US-Canadian border.
The book is named after this short story and is about revenge and the professional vs personal motive to kill in the spy world.
Ian Fleming - страшный сноб и националист! Как это в политкорректной Великобритании его еще не запретили?! Все немцы, русские, китайцы и латиноамериканцы у него уроды (во всех смыслах этого слова) и, вообще, второй сорт. А англичане обладатели чистой, неразбавленной крови!А что касается самой книги, то она получилась скучной, длинной (несмотря на то, что это сборник рассказов) и совсем не про шпионов. Если это был эксперимент, то весьма неудачный!
I read these for a book club read, having never read any James Bond books previously.
These are stand-alone novellas.
The stories mostly deal with off-the-books or off-duty adventures of James Bond.
The plots are fairly simple, but most of the stories still captured my attention.
You will have to deal with the sexism of the 60s and the general way in which Bond views women, but it isn't as bad as most books from this period.
The writing was surprisingly good, even though the plots were simple.
I actually think I might pick up a regular-length book to try.
For Your Eyes Only took a break from the longer-form plots of the James Bond series to provide a collection of five shorts featuring the famous spy.“From A View To A Kill” found Bond attempting to unravel the mysterious murder of an allied courier in the outskirts of Paris.
And in “The Hildebrand Rarity,” Bond endured the company of a rich, bullying American in the search for a rare aquatic specimen, before things took a violent turn.Ian Fleming was rightfully celebrated for his Bond novels, but the author was a deft hand with the shorter format, too.
This is the eighth Bond book and the first to be an anthology of short stories rather than a full-length novel.
I tried revisiting the Bond books with Casino Royale and I found it didn’t quite work for me, but I came across a clearance-sale copy of this and thought I’d try Bond in a short-story format to see if it worked better.
On the other hand, Bond is more thoughtful in these stories as he ponders the nature of his job.
Fleming knew how to tell a tale, but I can’t say I was inspired enough to revisit Bondworld again.
From a View to a Kill - 2 starsFor Your Eyes Only - 3 starsQuantum of Solace - 4 starsRisico - 3 starsThe Hildebrand Rarity - 4 stars
The book contains five short stories which rather like the featured novels of earlier work picked up with Bond on a mission and acted like a quick glimpse into his world.
Bond questions his role as an agent and assassin in these books in a subtle take on his feelings rather than a grand epiphany you may expect.From a View to a Kill: This was my favourite of the five.
It was another step away from the normal with bond really being an assassin but this time for his friend.Quantum of Solace: I was looking forward to reading this as I had always wondered about the title.
IN MY EARLY TEENS I READ EVERY BOOK AND IT STARTED ME AS AN AVID READER OF SPY AND SUSPENSE NOVELS.
I AM GOING TO WRITE A GENERIC REVIEW OF THE JAMES BOND SERIES AS EVERYONE PROBABLY KNOWS THE STORYLINE FROM EITHER READING THE BOOKS OR WATCHING THE MOVIES.
THE CREATOR OF JAMES BOND, IAN FLEMING, HAD A REPUTATION FOR BEING AN AUTHOR, WHO IN REAL LIFE WAS AS COLORFUL AS HIS CHARACTERS, AND HIS NOVELS MIMICKED THE AUTHOR'S PERSONALITY.THE BOOKS CONTAIN INCREDIBLE SUSPENSE, UNEXPECTED THRILLS, AND EXTRAORDINARY DANGER.
If you have tried to read a Bond novel and found it not to your liking, I would suggest that you give these a go.From a View to a Kill: A British army motorcycle dispatch rider is murdered on his way to NATO headquarters.
Bond finds himself the final guest following a dinner party held by the Governor of Jamaica.
Although the two men have little in common, a glib remark by Bond leads the governor to recount an amusing anecdote about a cuckold husband and his adulterous wife.Risico: Bond is ordered to sever the pipeline of narcotics entering the country and a meeting is arranged with the CIA’s contact.
JAMES BONDthe indestructible agent who thrives on trouble--both violent and voluptuous--pits his devastating wiles and deadly charm against the most bizarre fiends he's ever encountered in these high-voltage exploits taken direct from the files ofIAN FLEMINGmaster of murder, mystery, and incredible suspense.Aahh, you have to love the way the original Bond novels were marketed in the early 1960s...a time of Cold War served with martinis, timeless clothing, and British spies who could swing with the best.
Unlike Fleming's other Bond books, FOR YOUR EYES ONLY is actually a collection of Bond short stories.
A collection of five Bond short stories first published in 1960, three of which have had their titles become the names of Bond films although there is little else in common.
Elements of these stories did become parts of the films and four of them also reportedly were adapted from plots of a TV series that never bore fruit.
These stories take place between longer Bond missions and are all quite enjoyable.
I still prefer the longer novel-length stories where Bond really gets himself into and out of any a tight spot but these tales are all worth reading for fans of James Bond.Stories included:- From A View to a Kill- For Your Eyes Only- Quantum of Solace- Risico- The Hildebrand Rarity
