https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1775733.Room_at_the_Top
He has a way of making Joe intriguing even when his motives and actions can be suspect.
Joe is the narrator throughout and we see his evolution/devolution up close.For all that, it gave me far more pleasure than the dressing gown I have now, which was bought from Sulka's in Bond Street.
He is a man who remains aimed at the Top and set to whatever steps he must take.In our group discussion, one subject that rose frequently and vehemently was the treatment of women in the book.
Is this Joe's attitude toward women?
It’s about two things – class, and the possibilities of moving from the working class to the middle-class ( there’s a careful, excruciating listing of all the foodstuffs, clothing , drinks, modes of transport and social habits of each of the two classes – we learn, for instance, about the remarkable frequency and toleration of drunk driving in those days - how there was anyone left alive is a wonder); and sex, how men and women negotiate to get what they want, or often, what they can bear to put up with – how they shuffle the cards they’ve been dealt.
We see him as he embarks on his attempts to improve his lot; joining the local amateur dramatic society, tackling his new job and finding how far he can go… Before long, Joe is seriously involved with two women – the married, older woman, Alice and the young, beautiful and innocent, Susan, whose father is wealthy and influential.
He is successful at work and with women, making him dangerous and, before long, coming to the attention of his ‘betters.’ This novel perfectly encapsulates that narrow minded, drab and dreary, post war England.
Joe Lampton's 'room at the top' is a metaphor for his drive to leave behind the blue-collar 'zombies' of his old life and native town.The kindly Thompsons, deprived of a son who died at war, take Joe under their wing and treat him like family.
She remains naïve of his motive being partly frivolous opportunism, in his ruthless quest for social elevation, and partly blokey one upmanship against the self-important Jack Wales.At these same weekly rehearsals, Joe also becomes acquainted with the older, married Alice Aisgill, who usually gets the company's leading lady roles.
His only option of keeping Alice would be elopement with her, away from her husband and Warley, leaving behind Susan and his career opportunities.
I found my copy in an especially eccentric pop—up used book booth and it scored low on the recognition test with the nosy parade of museum public to whom I act as receptionist by day (crime fighter by night, naturally).‘Room at the Top’ tells the story of Joe Lampton, an ambitious Geordie, and his post-war efforts to make something of himself in the brave new capitalist world.
I’m happy to forgive most instances (princesses in fairy tales and the like) but in truth, in reality, beauty in a woman is a rare and mind-altering thing and not the bog-standard minimum for anyone daring to be loved.‘Room at the Top’, quite refreshingly, acknowledges this.
Recently demobbed, Joe escapes to the more prosperous and affluent nearby Warley, where he hopes to reinvent himself.Room at the Top is set in the immediate post-World War 2 period when class boundaries were clearly defined and social mobility was difficult.
GoodReads friend Peter reminded me that the novel was written during the era of U and non-U - popularised by Nancy Mitford in 1954 which "unleashed an anxious national debate about English class-consciousness".Room at the Top has a very compelling narrative, however what elevates this book to classic status, is that this page-turner of a story is aligned to a pitch perfect evocation of life in a provincial Yorkshire town, in the late 1940s.
Novel set in post-war Northern England is like a time capsule into a past world where even the educated working classes faced limited opportunities unless they demonstrated the rare avarice to try and climb socially via marriage - which forms the basis of the narrator's quest.
If the amount of alcohol consumed by rich and poor alike through the process of this story fails to surprise (this is England, after all), then the degree of pre-marital, extra-marital, passing and unprotected sex may shock some who (like me) thought that somehow people didn't....
You don't have to love him to appreciate his story, and what it tells us about a world that has changed in many, if not all, ways.
Against a backdrop of post-war Britain, a period when people really did believe that a new future, a different kind of society was just around the corner, Joe Lampton, born January 1921, aspired to social and economic elevation.
Alice Aisgarth, for instance, declares that she would like to sleep with Joe.
And so despite the aspiration for and perceived attainment of social change in post-war Britain, Room At The Top, juxtaposed with recent evidence, reminds us that very little, if anything, has changed – except for the cigarettes and the chamber pots, of course.
Upon re-reading I'm still not sure that the writer himself sees things differently than his protagonist.
Sure, Britain's post-war society with its class boundaries and the trauma of the narrator's war experience made him behave like he does and he ends up a broken man.
It was all about class and how the narrator is an angry young man.
There is much I missed in the first reading back when I was 17, but my gut feeling about the novel is basically the same.
I've still got a problem with novels with asshole protagonists.
How do you cope with novels in which the narrator or the protagonists are utterly unlikeable?
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
1 of the great gems of modern literature - if you have a heart, you will be in tears. Unfortunately, an all too true account of how love is in the real world, rather than how we wish it were.
Written in 1957, but set a little earlier, this is the story of a shameless social climber.Orphaned Joe was raised by his working class aunt and uncle in a grim northern industrial town.
He lodges with a well-to-do middle aged couple, gets involved with the local amateur dramatic group ands sets about bettering himself (whilst ensuring he gets plenty of sex too - it was probably pretty racy for its time).He considers the cost, quality and availability of everything, including women, with disarming honesty to the reader, though rarely to those he meets in the story.
As I took her roughly into my arms I felt loneliness come over me, real as the damp churchyard smell of the grass, melancholy as the sound of the beck in the little glen below us. I felt heavy as Sunday, as if time might drag me into a world like a bad engraving, still and dark and dull and lost.
I think a lot of people still think like this today, even if they don't end up bloody and drunk in the street at the end. The hierarchy of grades of partner seems awfully familiar, and the sense of distance from your own happiness is, sadly, not simply a product of a 50s mindset.
I read this book in Czech a long time ago. I loved it and read it several times. The brilliantly written flawed main character. I liked the second part, too.
Joe Lampton has to be one of the great characters of post war fiction: smart, passionate and massively conflicted. Braine writes Lampton's experiences almost like a memoir, with ocassional references to the fact that he's got what he wanted, or at least what he thought he wanted - always in the background there's the sense of something missed or lost entirely but it's not quite regret. It's a sad book full of people trapped by the cages of class and reputation, with brief moments of escape, which only makes it more devastating when the trap closes again.
Published in 1957, Room at the Top is the story of young northern man with an enormous chip on his shoulder, as he tries to advance himself at work and socially in the most ruthless way that he can.
The setting is immediately post-war and the chip on his shoulder comes from his perception of the ways in which class distinction work in Britain.
This makes for a terrific story, together with added details such as the unavoidable impact of post-war rationing on all - a detail omitted from many of the dramatic presentations of the story over the years because of their contemporary setting.
Brilliant, and has not dated at all.
Ignoring the warnings of Eva, 'You can't get everything you want all at once', he pursues both women and the higher rudders of the town's social ladder.The pursuit of these two goals go hand in hand as Joe explains, 'I was grateful that she should exist, just as I was grateful Warley should exist'.
Success does not have time for feelings.Joe's unravellings begin after his first serious argument with Alice and his confusion over his relationship with Susan.
Joe Lampton ("I’m better looking than everyone else") narcissistic womaniser with a chip on his shoulder about being working class relocates from crappy Dufton (up north somewhere) to Warley (who knows where) in the hope of rising t’top but ends up trying to sleep his way to the top.Joe meets his first batch of victims at the local theatre group.
But he has a rival for his affection in Jack Wales, a moneyed toff, betrothed to Susan, the nineteen year old naive little chaste rich bitch whom Joe falls madly in lust with and through whom he plans to achieve his aim of rising t’top – since her father is the major wealthy industrialist of Warley.
He wants to be in love, but it isn't enough that he has to like the woman of his desires, she has to be rich, or be in some kind of high class standing, for him to be remotely interested.
But for all that Joe himself is worth, we know and can understand where he comes from, based on his humble beginnings and provincial life that he so diligently wants to leave behind.
All the other characters are relatable, because they feel the same as how we feel about Joe. Some love him, some love him a lot, and some can't stand him, just like anyone who reads this book.
Sitting opposite my Dad on the train, he noticed the dust jacket of this book and remarked - 'Joe Lampton?'Hence, my realisation that in his day, and largely due to the subsequent TV series rather than John Braine's novel, Lampton was as familiar a character as Dirty Den or JR; D'Angelo Barksdale or Don Draper.The novel spins on the reader's view - is Lampton's behaviour condoned or condemned?
An essential part of a genre that encompasses the work of John Osborne and Keith Waterhouse.
Susan e furnicata peste tot, peste tot, mai fa-mi o data asa..."Cu o alta ocazie, cand citeste din economia politica a lui Benham, isi imagineaza ca citeste despre el insusi, la persoana a treia: "cazul Joseph Lampton".
Si Jack Wales va fi acasa de Craciun - ce sansa avea oare porcarul pe langa print?"Un nou personaj pentru copii apare in momentul in care tatal Susanei ii face lui Joe o propunere:"[...] judecatorul implacabil devenise un Mos Craciun care va aduce in traista toate darurile cerute de copii[...]".Isi imagineaza scene in care e alaturi de Susan si toti ii invidiaza, ca face cumparaturi scumpe pentru ea si pentru el.
Pe langa acestea, Joe are si imaginatie, e visator, face comparatii cu povesti, isi imagineaza despre el ceva scris la persoana a treia.
"I was moving into the attack and no one had better try to stop me"By sally tarbox on 8 December 2017Format: PaperbackGrabs you from the first page: narrated by fiercely ambitious young Joe Lampton, an intelligent lad from a humble background.
It's just after WW2 and accountant Joe has broken away from his grim northern hometown of Dufton for an accountancy position in the much more salubrious Warley.
I really want to know why David Bowie had this on his top 100 list.
The thing is, I do think it redeemed itself (for me) by the end, but not enough to make it even a 4 star book.It reminded me of a lot of other things I've read, not in its entirety, but seemed to have shades of other books as inspiration.
The two in particular being The Great Gatsby and An American Tragedy.
Some of the lesser characters were decent, but mostly it seemed that everyone was very selfish.
I liked the writing style I liked the writing style and the in-depth insight into Joe Lampton's character. I can't say I "enjoyed" the book overall though as it was disjointed in places. Joe is a seedy, ambitious character from a sad background. The author makes a good job of taking him out of his home setting and placing him in where he aspires to be so we can see the misfit.
Compared to so many books that feel written to be read, composed for effect, this is a lot closer to the bone, willing to get closer to what feels like the truth. A plot that holds together and a main character you cannot love but can get to know, and recognise, and a world of post-war England that is vivid and true, and is still somehow part of us, however much we might wish that were not so.
After reading 'Lucky Jim', here is another two-timing drinker, who however is more calm, cool and collected than Jim Dixon, as becomes a social climber. He too gets the girl of his dreams, but there is more psychological depth in this novel: one can see that it finishes off with Joe Lampton being haunted by remorse. His last words sound like a desperate criticism of the society of his time.
A little disappointed. Certainly interesting and a book very much of its time. But it hasn't aged well for me. And the casual racism, and acceptance of domestic violence don't sit well with a modern reader.
Over the top...
Exceptional from start to finish, even though the protagonist/narrator of Room at the Top is an awful person with little to no redeemable qualities.
