https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/563840.Good_Morning_Miss_Dove
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W4WLh...Synopsis: sentimental story of a beloved schoolteacher who reflects back on her life and former students when she is hospitalized.Definitely sentimental, absolutely a period piece.
I recently re-watched the movie version of Good Morning, Miss Dove and was moved to seek out and read the book.
I think many of us have had a teacher somewhat like The Terrible Miss Dove, who inspires fear, a desire to achieve, and, eventually fondness.
Miss Dove's anesthesia dream was a gem, particularly in light of her earlier thought of Heaven as a place she would certainly go to but probably not enjoy.
I read numerous books, but I've never read a novel as charming as Good Morning Miss Dove. It was an absolute delight. Miss Dove is a teacher who has touched the lives of numerous children and the adults of Liberty Hill. Only when Miss Dove develops a life threatening illness does she discover the depth of feeling that she has inspired in others.
From IMDb:Miss Dove is a strict disciplinary, plus a well respected teacher, who has inspired her students to individual greatness. One day during class, Miss Dove experiences great pain in her back, but continues with the class. After class she asks one of her students who is staying after class to get a doctor. Thomas, a doctor, and a former student of her's takes her to the hospital and hospitalizes her. While in the hospital her former students rally around her causing Miss Dove to reflect on her past.
I wish I had had a teacher like Miss Dove. A moving novel of how one woman can influence a whole town.
Miss Dove is a young girl, the apple of her father's eye, with big dreams of touring the world and a big heart she hoped to give to a young archeologist.
Suddenly regretting the fact that she never visited any of the exotic places she teaches about and wondering if she really is ready for Heaven, Miss Dove looks back on her life and on the children she's led, realizing how happy she's been though she never would have said so before.
Eventually, I found myself reading with an electronic dictionary because I was both amazed and delighted by the numerous words and phrases with which I had either never heard of, or needed to be refreshed about, in such a simple little, straightforward story.
In truth, by then I was under Miss Dove's spell and felt that she would be displeased with me if I weren't studious enough to understand precisely what I was reading.
I even compiled a list of words or phrases (which numbered over 50) to study later...which I think would have made her proud.
A delightful little treasure.
After teaching several generations of children, now Miss Dove has a back ailment that causes her to miss class for the first time in her life.
Her former students, now grown up into doctors, preachers, and even criminals, help her during this stressful time of the unknown by visiting and waiting on her and reminding her of the impact she had on their lives and on the town.
It does not make a big impact, but it is pleasant reading and makes one think of the teachers that have impacted our lives.
It was like a hundred American towns, smug and cozy, and it put its special stamp upon its own.
They had all, for the space of a whole generation, been exposed at a tender and malleable age to the impartial justice, the adamantine regulations, and the gray, calm neutral eyes of the same teacher- the terrible Miss Dove."This was the opening to a very tender and sweet story of a small town teacher who rose above early trials to make a difference in the lives of her students.
However, I felt like this added to the richness of the story.
Miss Dove is anal, yet she cares.
She's precise and makes her students toe the line.
It takes a sudden operation on her back to prompt the townpeople, many of them her former students, that while Miss Dove may be viewed as a tyrant, she has made an impact on their lives.
This book taught me the value of honesty and the need to help others who are afraid to ask for help.
(And the book is waaaaaaaaaaaaay better than the movie, although the movie isn't all that bad.
Read the book first.)
Miss Dove, the town's most feared teacher for her strict adherence to rules, suddenly takes sick and needs to stay in the hospital, where she is cared for by former students who recall her class with real affection.
This is a sweet story of a woman who has made sacrifices in her personal life for the greater good, and is finally realizing what a positive mark she has left on the town.
Previously she had felt that no one really noticed her, or really even cared what happened to her.The story features a very idyllic 1950s small town in which everyone knows everyone else, and I have to say, I almost wish I'd grown up in such a town.I read a condensed version of this novel.
...being my kids' teacher, I guess I hope they remember some of the things I'm teaching them when it's most needed!
I'm not Miss Dove.
No way, no how.
I'm those other teachers...but I think the kids had respect for Miss Dove (and maybe some appreciation for me...that I do let them get a drink now and then?:)This was a great literature story.
It was good for the kids to see a static character that molded other characters throughout the story.
While there wasn't much "EXCITEMENT" the story had great elements and made a great point...most everything in life is a trial.
Sweet story about a teacher who made a big impact in individual lives over several generations of students. Similar to Goodbye, Mr. Chips (including the title with the vocative), but an American elementary school, not a British boys school. Stories like this improve with time because the contrast with present day teachers and students is far greater--and therefore more interesting for what it says about us.
Wonderfully developed story. I found this book and was going to toss it/donate it, but decided to read the first chapter. I'm really glad I did. It's a great story for teachers and the legacy they leave.
This short delightful book was one of my grandmother's favorite novels. It's also a great film.
This is a story of a teacher who influences 35 years of students.
Feeling my pre-teenish need to NOT find exciting what my dad thought I'd find exciting, and not wanting to appear uncool and "star struck." Miss Dove is the beloved town teacher yet, strangely, taught not English, math, science or even history--but geography.
Thus her whole life dedicated to a subject most people who did not live in her town, never have a course in.
The school was also set up in an interesting way in that all students grades 1-6 had a period of geography each day.
Both forsook marriage and kids to focus on a career, are of a similar age, and recently, similarly, ended up in the hospital.
I read this book, because my sister-in-law’s grandmother wrote it! Since I am a senior citizen myself, this story definitely conjured images of my childhood - and the way teachers could strike fear (and obedience) in a roomful of kids.It was interesting to come across terms you don’t hear anymore: “carpet slippers”, for one. And alternately, the word that WASN’T spoken aloud, or written: “cancer”.Four stars are for the nostalgia factor, and level of escapism it provided to today’s crazy world.
This sweet book was one of my mother’s favorites, and my copy was a gift from her. I’ve read it several times, and will doubtless read it again. It is the kind of love story I like best (non-romantic) — the story of the Terrible Miss Dove, a teacher, and the town that loved her. The pedagogy will doubtless seem foreign to younger readers (but the student’s reaction is worth noting — justice and consistency are never inappropriate), but older readers just might be reminded of a teacher like Miss Dove.
I highly recommend this to anyone who just loves a good story (hint..hint..my friend Maggie)...briefly, a short, but inspiring story of a dedicated schoolteacher (think New England) who has spent generations molding the minds of her students, who, in the past, have often referred to her as "The Terrible Miss Dove." When Miss Dove falls suddenly and seriously ill, the townspeople suddenly realize just how much she really means to them. A must read for all fiction readers. Definitely 5 stars!Yes, I am reading this again..I just love it!
This book was cozy from the beginning, and I had no problem settling in to it. It's one of the books that I am sad as it ends, because the characters mean so much to me. I wanted to hear dozens of more stories and tidbits of the geography class, and I wanted to see Miss Dove's reactions to hundreds of more situations because while strict and rulebound, she certainly had her own way of handling things. While I didn't always agree with her ways, I feel I will keep some of her lessons with me.
What a treat to read such a wonderful little book like this. It's unfortunately out of print but shouldn't be. I think it will continue to delight future generations of readers. You are introduced to several inhabitants of a small town in the forties, all seen through the eyes of the strong-willed Miss Dove. I wish I had another daughter so I could name her Jincey. I guess I'll just start calling one of my friends Jincey. How about you Krisette? Can I call you Jincey?
I really love this book. Written in 1954, it speaks of a simpler time, when teachers had authority and children respected their teachers. It is also the portrait of an independent woman in a time where female independence was very limited. Great light read! This fulfills the "Written before you were born" category in Book Bingo.
This is much more than the sentimental tale of a dedicated teacher reflecting on her life. It offers a critique of the modern approach to both teaching and nursing, and provides a strong underlying message: be wary of the illusory appeal of new ideas. Continued
I rescued this book from a stack we were discarding from the UU library. It is set in the late 40's or early 50's and presents a world of education unimaginable today. It is the life story of Miss Dove, hospitalized when her leg goes numb as she is teaching. This is a kind of book that will soon be forgotten. I loved it.
Miss Dove teaches all her life the hard and easy lessons everyone must learn. I read this book upon reading that a librarian stated her career after discovering it in her local library. Nice and quaint story.
As a teacher, I found this book to be very encouraging. Not because I plan to become a Miss Dove, but because I so strongly agree with her principles. This book is heartwarming and convicting. I plan to reread it someday, and I highly recommend it.
Just a neat, sweet and tidy little book that you can enjoy during a chilly autumn weekend. No one would be able to write anything like this now and have it be well-received, which is a shame. A cute gem that captures a bygone era.
3.5 stars Delightful story with the author setting the pace of the book reflecting its time. This was a book club selection. We are reading stories written by NC authors who have been inducted into the NC Writers Hall of Fame.
This book is sentimental and probably not for everyone. The movie version was one of my favorites when I was a little girl. It is a sweet story; idyllic more than realistic, and that's the charm of it I guess. Caution: I never had to look up so many uncommonly used words in such a small book.
