https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15751404-david-and-goliath
Gladwell is taking a lot of heat for biasing the examples he chooses in his books to make points that are often later shown to be somewhat tenuous.
As with any book, don't read it passively, decide what you buy and what needs to be further examined.
Enjoy it, it's a fun read.[Update]I came across a cool and relevant quote in The Tell-Tale Brain by V.
S. Ramachandran from Darwin's The Descent of Man:"...false facts are highly injurious to the progress of science, for they often endure long; but false views, if supported by some evidence, do little harm, for everyone takes a salutary pleasure in proving their falseness; and when this is done, one path toward errors is closed and the road to truth is often at the same time opened."
Much like a born again who reads the bible for the first time, I have never been able to relate to a book as well as with David & Goliath.Disclosure: I'm a dyslexic who spent all of his youth struggling through school -- spending my lunches tirelessly improving my spelling while everyone else spent their lunch break improving their rest.
So then to read Gladwell's David & Goliath was more than just an experience I could understand but completely relate with.
The Art of Avoiding Bestsellers: A Field Guide for Authors How do books succeed?By getting into the Bestseller lists? By making a few millions? By winning the most prestigious awards of the day?Wrong.These are very narrow views on what constitutes success for a work of art, especially literature or serious non-fiction. If we redefine success, we might find that these very things that confers ‘success’ in the short term might be hurting the artist/author the most in the long term. This applies t
And at the pinnacle of the profession was The Salon, the most important art exhibition in all of Europe.+++Every year each of the painters of France submitted two or three of his finest canvases to a jury of experts, bringing their work to the 
In short, for a painter in nineteenth-century France, the Salon was everything - the Booker Committee and the Bestseller List rolled into one.+++And now, the twist:In spite of the all the benefits, the acceptance by the Salon also came with a large cost: for the truly creative and path breaking (let us take for example the Impressionists such as Monet, which is the case study taken up by the book):1.
Even though much of the backlash often falls directly into the same traps of which he gets accused (e.g. critics cherry-picking the parts of his books that best support their complaints), the key argument is generally quite valid: Gladwell takes a minority, slightly counter-intuitive, perspective, highlights some evidence that possibly supports it, and ignores alternative readings of the same stories, and all the evidence for different positions.The key question is: how much does this matter?One of the central concepts in this book is that of the inverted U-curve — where an increase in something is valuable for a while, but then starts to become a negative (e.g. drinking some alcohol is good for your health, but drinking too much causes problems.) Gladwell applies this to numerous other areas, from teacher–student ratios, or the relationship between wealth and parenting, through to punishment for crimes.
These kinds of problems occur throughout the entire book and the ending leads one to wonder...what exactly was the point of all that, Gladwell?Added to the fact that much of this book seems to deal with stuff that's way too similar to the ground he covered with  Outliers , I'd only recommend this book to teachers looking for excerpts to use to provoke criticality about bias and research or using excerpts to introduce an idea about power, justice, etc.
This book was written to torture people like me.
Torture us by showing our nightmares made real, lived out in the lives of people we would empathise with, but Gladwell forces from us more than merely our empathy, he places us in their shoes – he has us holding the hands of our own daughters as they lay dying or has us wait months to learn of their slow death by torture.
I let very few writers take me to those places.This book has opened and scattered salt across virtually every wound and every scar, real and imagined, of which my life is constituted.
A class size of 36 was too large to be good.Two brilliant and talented students got into top colleges: a science major at Brown and a math major at Harvard.
If they had gone to second tier schools, they would have been at the top of their classes and probably not changed majors.Dr. Jay Freireich lacked empathy for his patients - children with leukemia.
Therefore, he was willing to experiment with painful and dangerous procedures for these children - things other doctors were unwilling to do.
I’d love to hear him narrate some of my fiction books.DATA:Unabridged audiobook reading time: 7 hrs.
This time his theory is that being the underdog and having disadvantages can actually be an advantage.The title comes from a biblical story about a giant warrior named Goliath who was slain by David, a shepherd boy who was good with a slingshot.
Gladwell analyzes the story and determines that the boy was not, in fact, an underdog, but was actually was a skilled hunter, and that Goliath didn't stand a chance against him.My favorite discussions in the book were about education, including the popular-but-apparently-not-true belief that small class sizes are always better.
Malcolm Gladwell is one of those authors who you remember reading, but may not quite recall which book a particular phrase came from.
They're all pretty similar.But that's the beauty of Gladwell.
The world is disconcerting enough already.The title, David and Goliath, tells you exactly what this book is about.
It's about the little guy who made good and, even better, who turned his adversities into strengths.
Or following the sometimes Biblical headers in the book: The last shall be first.So why only three stars?
Because Gladwell is that sort of author.
Pretty predictable, but pretty good at it.
And always enjoyable.Follow me on Twitter: @Dr_A_Taubman
Unlike Spock though I embrace a wider spectrum of what constitutes logic, eg emotions are very important and relevant....but otherwise I agree completely with his approach to life.This book is all about situations that don't look logical on the surface, but if you dig a little deeper you discover the logic.
It looks under the surface of things to discover what is really going on.Situations where the underdog does well are explored...some of these include:*David and Goliath.
(It turns out David was not the underdog he at first appeared to be...)*The surprising emotional or intellectual strengths that can result from a childhood where loss or scarcity have been experienced....
I've never hidden my stigmatized identity as an academic social scientist who loves Malcolm Gladwell.
Gladwell isn't a scientist, and he's not writing textbooks.
I enjoy getting swept up in Gladwell's story-telling and I like the way he weaves together a little research with a lot of engaging humanities / human-interest-type stuff.
His stories are juicy and memorable.David & Goliath is similar to Gladwell's previous trilogy of social science-y books.
As usual, the theme is diffuse and some of the stories are more germane, persuasive, or compelling than others.
Still, I enjoyed taking the somewhat meandering, but also thought-provoking journey.
Gladwell writes interesting anecdotes and then generalizes them, showing common themes, behaviors, or morals.
Gladwell turns the story around, and by analyzing the biblical verses, he shows that David was not an underdog at all.
But because he was desperate, the father came up with an atypical strategy that turned the team into a powerhouse.Gladwell shows that although dyslexia is a learning disability, it can help mold a person.
Other doctors with normal childhoods were too squeamish to experiment and find such a cure.Gladwell shows that ultra-small class sizes are not always advantageous.
Malcolm Gladwell is notorious in certain circles for his brand of "turns out" pseudo-science writing.
The typical structure look something like this: First, he lays out a topic about which there's a certain conventional wisdom.
If you thoroughly enjoyed Gladwell's other books, you might consider reading this.
Gladwell's books have always walked the line between thought-provoking and entertaining on one hand, and over-simplistic and strained on the other hand.
Portions of the book, particularly his direct deconstruction of the story of David and Goliath, are even painful to read.
And the claim that the 'historical' Goliath suffered, like Guiness's tallest-man-ever Robert Wadlow, from acromegaly, strikes me as the sort of disturbingly naive literalism I would expect from a televangelist and not a staff science writer for the New Yorker.
The concepts of relative deprivation and desirable difficulty were convincing if notentirely new, and the analysis of iconic civil rights photographs, particularly the image of teenage Walter Gadsden being 'attacked' by a police dog, was revelatory.
پیشنهاد به:اگر ازدیدن زوایای نهان پدیده ها که از دید غالب مردم نهان هست لذت می برد.اگر خطی فکر می کنید و از مواجه با غول های زندگی (رقیبان سرسخت، اتفاقات ناگوار زندگی) واهمه دارید.حتما این کتاب رو بخونیدموضوع کتاباین کتاب از حکایت نبرد داود (چوپان ظاهرا نحیف اسرائیلی) که جالوت (جنگ جوی غول پیکر فلسطینی) رو شکست می ده درس ها و نکته های بزرگی رو بیان می کنه و نگاه کاملا متفاوت و بهتری نسبت به چیزی که ما ضعف یا قدرت پیش خودمون می پنداریم ارائه می کنهبررسی و محتوایک دسته کتاب ها هستن که بعد از خوندنشون شخص انگار با دید شفاف تر و بهتری به دنیا نگاه می کنه و این کتاب قطعا یکی ازون هاست.
Thus, in a way, the successful dyslexic has actually benefited from his disability, because it has forced him into a position where he has had to develop other skills that have led him directly to success.Also at play here is the fact that dyslexics tend to endure many failures when they are young.
This is one of the worse experiences imaginable, and the trauma of losing a parent in childhood does indeed crush the vast majority of those who have the misfortune of enduring it.Again, though, it has been noted that a very high proportion of highly successful individuals across many fields (from science to art to politics) have in fact lost a parent in childhood.
Chicken Soup for the Pop Psychologist's Soul.
Or something like that.The plural of anecdote is not data.
And when Mr. Gladwell has a hammer, everything looks like a nail.
That is, he is a very persuasive writer, but ultimately I'm not really convinced about all of his conclusions.
Do I need to point out that as social science goes, this is heavy on the social and light on the science?
You probably already knew that.Anyway, I did enjoy this one.
Everyone loves an underdog.
And I enjoyed his retelling of certain historical events and eras.
As with everything Gladwell, this book is a fun and fast read that is not at all careful with its conclusions.
It's not careful scholarship, but Gladwell doesn't claim it to me.
In other words, he tells a story with great anecdotes and some data that doesn't always support the point he is making.
However, I believe the point he is making in David and Goliath (that underdogs can have hidden strengths and that trials and tragedy can lead to strong character).
The point is valid and the stories are riveting.
It was also an inspiring read and the stories were really well-written.
While I recognize that he finds empirical studies to support the central ideas of his books and am generally okay with that, he went too far with David and Goliath.
That part was expected and understandable; the part I couldn't get past was that I have read many of the studies that he cited and disagree with the conclusions.
Additionally, he gave a lot of stories to persuade a reader toward his opinion of class size reduction, but nearly all of the studies that supported his claims came from Economics journals.
My final complaint is that the stories used to illustrate his central idea felt disjointed and haphazard.
شجعتني أيضاً التقييمات الإيجابية التي سمعتها من بعض الأصدقاء لكتب أخرى لنفس الكاتب.عنوان الكتاب هو داوود وجالوت وهي قصة موجودة في الإرث الديني للأديان الإبراهيمية (السماوية) تشير إلى انتصار الطرف الذي يبدو أضعف على الطرف الذي يبدو أقوى.
يشير الكاتب منذ البداية على أن هذا الفهم للقصة خاطىء، فانتصار داوود كان محتما ﻷسباب كثيرة ولكن المشكلة هي في القراءة السطحية للأحداث والتي تدفع الطرف الضعيف في الغالب إلى اللعب بالطريقة التي يفرضها الطرف القوي وبالتالي يؤدي ذلك لزيادة فرص الخسارة.نقطة أخرى يذكرها الكاتب وهي أن بعض الأمور والصعاب التي تبدو سلبية في أول الأمر تحمل في طياتها فوائد كثيرة لا يمكن استيعابها إلا لاحقاً.
Gladwell Dropped the RockI read this upon its publication a few years ago.
I was disappointed because it was a real drop-off from Gladwell's previous books, such as Outliers: The Story of Success and, to a lesser degree, The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference.
A few of his anecdotes, for example those relating to schooling, seemed a real stretch to support the book's theme of David v.
At times, it felt like he'd found some unrelated stories and tried to cobble them into a proof of his hypothesis.I still appreciate Gladwell's work and his contribution to American letters.
According to Gladwell (and to the numerous academic researchers whose work he cites), Goliath was massively vulnerable — in large part precisely because he was truly a giant — and David possessed an enormous advantage in his own right from the moment he walked onto the field of battle.
Goliath’s great strength was in fact no advantage at all.In this out-of-left-field manner, Gladwell draws diverse examples from all over the map to illustrate his principal points: overwhelming power can easily prove to be a disadvantage, while disability and weakness can lead to surprising success.
I stayed up reading this book until I finished it, not only because I'm currently five books behind schedule and I just had two very big cups of tea, but also because this book, like most of Gladwell's other books, is very readable and engaging.
Gladwell sees things differently, and that is also one of the reasons why I enjoy reading his books!
I struggled whether I should give this one five stars or four.
Stars aren't for free now are they?!
I'm going to give this one four stars anyways.
Off to read more of Gladwell soon enough!
Were we to find life on the moons of Saturn, he would undoubtedly apply his guiding principles there as well; so sure is Gladwell that this obscure study holds the key to overcoming life’s obstacles that he applies it to dyslexia, claiming that inbuilt disadvantages generate asymmetrical success stories.
You could fill a supertanker with all of the sociological and psychological layers pushed to the periphery in favor of his handpicked fiction.The balance of his thesis rests on self-reported anecdote by real-life Davids who faced down their own Goliaths.
The Event: The war between the Israelites and the Philistines, in the the valley of Elah, during which a Confrontation between David - a young small weak looking boy - and Goliath - a fearsome giant, took place and marked an end of an era, and a start of a legend.
and knowing that, would we ever wish dyslexia, or any other undesired difficulty upon our children if we knew it could lead to their success (or couldn't)?
David and Goliath: Underdogs, Misfits, and the Art of Battling Giants is a great book.
Malcolm Gladwell shows why you don't always have to be Goliath to win.
We meet remarkable underdogs like Jay Freireich, the doctor who revolutionised treatment for children with leukaemia, and David Boies, a dyslexic trial attorney, who shouldn't have triumphed but did.
Gladwell has a talent for presenting interesting subject matter in an entertaining way.
I love the way that he makes people think with his research and observations.
He does not present his writing as fact but rather as a tool to engage people.Bigger isn't always better.
Read David and Goliath to find out why.
I started with a sample on my kindle, but after falling asleep several times reading that I transitioned to audio-book so I could listen while driving.
Note that some of the stories are interesting in themselves, but I think that the connections Gladwell is trying to make to prove his point are tenuous at best.
When he does make a point it seems almost a "gotcha" moment as you're wrapping up one story and he suddenly circles you back to something covered a chapter ago and tries to make a connection...
And while I do think social sciences are interesting, results of these types of studies can be easily manipulated to make a point.
As usual, Gladwell introduced many interesting examples to show his points.The story I liked best was the one about the middle school girl basketball team coached by an Indian businessman Vivek Ranadivé.
Ranadivé knew nothing about basketball and his team was made up with short nerdy girls.
I wish Gladwell went deeper than this.In his last book Outliers: The Story of Success, Gladwell introduced "the 10,000hr rule" as "a key in success".
It could be even harmful if you take his conclusions as the definite truth.Having said that, this is an encouraging book for underdogs who have dyslexia or hard childhood.
Interesting essays from Gladwell about how the underdog can win, but MORE about the way we believe certain things to be true, but they're actually not.
For example, David would always have beat Goliath as he broke the rules of 1:1 combat, choosing a weapon equivalent to a gun over a sword.
It was essentially an unfair fight - but we celebrate David's winning against the odds, when in fact, we should celebrate breaking the rules and winning that way.
This is another important book by Gladwell and makes you think about the things we assume are "common sense" or "common knowledge".
Let me ask you a series of questions:Can a team with only mediocre offensive skills and limited physical gifts regularly beat teams that are more talented?Are larger classes sometimes better for learning than smaller ones?Might an accomplished young woman interested in science find career success by attending a state university instead of the Ivy League school that admitted her?Might a guy with dyslexia (a serious disorder that affects reading ability) do well in a legal career?Can a physician with a very troubled youth develop a breakthrough protocol for treating a fatal childhood disease by ignoring colleagues and forcing patients (and parents) to push through the pain?Can an oppressed minority gain rights and dignity through tricking the oppressor into dumb moves?Can the campaign of a heart-broken father to limit crime after the murder of his daughter backfire into promoting more crime?Can forgiveness provide a stable and fulfilling way of responding to horrific loss?Can a small group of dissenters thumb their noses at Vichy and Nazi officials and openly harbor Jews, saving them from internment and death?Can David beat Goliath?If you’ve ever read any Malcolm Gladwell, you will know that the counter-intuitive answers to some of these questions are Gladwell’s answers.
