https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104956.My_Land_and_My_People
I feel as though I bought an autobiography, but ended up reading about politics.On the other hand...I'm not sure I can really fault the Dalai Lama for that.
Seeing as how I (obviously) side with Tibet in that struggle, I didn't so much mind- it was very informative & interesting to see it from his perspective...and had it been in another book I probably would have absolutely loved it...but I bought this book- the "original autobiography of His Holiness The Dalai Lama" just for that...the autobiography.
Although I grew up hearing almost every details mentioned in the book, like any other Tibetan kid born into exile, reading the book written by the very man made it a whole new story.
Yet, on the other hand, it has humbled me down, almost making me feel negligible to my own eyes, like the meaning of my own life and that of my father’s and mother’s has really come to have nothing if it wasn’t for our Tibet and His Holiness.
This is a must read for anyone who is interested in Tibet, His Holiness and our struggle for genuine autonomy.
Although I knew the broad outlines of what happened to TIbet in the mid-twentieth century, I had no idea the exact details, and I'm grateful to have read this book and to have a sense of exactly what was done, what was lost, and who gave their lives under such difficult circumstances.
I also value the look at Tibetan life before the Chinese invasion - especially for beautiful moments of contradiction, like the Buddhist belief that it's wrong to take a life, but their commitment to eating meat, requiring that certain people live in their communities as butchers (cheerfully labeled as sinners too)!The Dalai Lama seems to narrate the events of 1950-1960 from a distance - not simply the literal one of being settled in Indian by the time the book is penned, but an emotional distance, or at least a narrative one.
An amazing book! Held back tears in every page and let them flow when I was finished. Written in a manner that shows and tells the true emotions and motivations behind the Dalai Lamas actions during the time of the first years of Chinese occupation. His Holiness is such an amazing human, a true inspiration. His softness and kindness is truly something spectacular and extraordinary in this world. Makes you wonder- what would the world be like if we'd all be like this. My favourite book of all times- definitely.
The Dalai Lama tells the story of not just the invasion, but of his childhood and his culture, and I was awestruck by the beauty he describes.The Dalai Lama states clearly in the opening that it is not his intention to make people hate the Chinese.
He tells his story as honestly as he can, and at times I found myself actually liking Mao Tse-tung, which is an incredible thing for a piece of writing to do: make you change feelings that you believed were set in stone.
I found myself no longer hating, but being almost understanding.The writing was equally as beautiful and painful as the story.
The book includes not only his own story, but, of necessity a brief history of the Tibetan people, the Chinese invasion of Tibet, and a recounting of the resolutions filed in the United Nations after the Dali Lama’s exile asking to have Tibet restored to the Tibetan people.The story of the Dali Lama’s early life was especially interesting, as was the account of his attempted kidnapping by the Chinese just before it was decided that he should leave the country for good.
Woo Hoo!!!This is a truly incredible book for learning about the culture of Tibet and the struggles and domination the country has endured as a result of Chinese occupation, in addition to having an insight into the man who would become the Dalai Lama.
There is also an Appendix at the back of the book labeled "An outline of the Buddhism of Tibet" which is extremely informative for anyone wanting to learn more about Buddhism in TibetA Quote from the Dalai Lama in "My Land and My People":"We all have a special responsibility to help create a better world, because material progress alone is clearly insufficient for a happier human society.
It's amazing that there are people in the world who have to go through ordeals such as one that the 14th Dalai Lama had to.
I was filled with great sadness and empathy for him and all victims, direct or indirect, or politcal wars.This book made me long for another such autobiography, in the years to come, of the Dalai Lama, and his years in exile.
I thought "Freedom in Exile", the account more widely available in bookstores, was the definitive autobiography by HH the DL, untilI stumbled upon this in Dharamsala.
The very last copy in a tiny bookstore was extricated from a dusty window display for me.
After he escaped from Chinese-occupied Tibet into India, HH was stunned to find hundreds of journalists waiting for him on the other side, wanting to capture "the story of the year." After reading this, I had a strong feeling that I held in my hands one of the greatest stories of the last century.
Interesting account by the Dalai Lama of his childhood and escape into India. Clear explanations of the political climate. Very objective. He's not a dramatic crybaby whining for his country. He is so dignified and peaceful. I am outraged at what China has done to Tibet. I wonder if the Tibetans will ever get to go home.
Was hoping for more info into the belief system of buddhism. Given to me by a coworker. Started off interesting with how the Dalai Lama is chosen but I started to lose interest once it became more political towards the end.
A text written with the energy and context of unfolding events. There was a youthful idealism here -- that the UN would help Tibet, that China would be amenable to reason.
The life of His Holiness the Dalai Lama of Tibet is very obscure to most people.
'My Land and My People: The Original Autobiography of His Holiness the Dalai Lama of Tibet' is a very honest story about His Holiness the Dalai Lama.
I would reccomend this book to anyone interested in learning about and getting insight to the life of the Dalai Lama.
I would also reccomend this book to anyone interested in Tibet, its culture and its people.
After reading this book, I had not a single question left about the Dalai Lama.
His autobiography was very thorough.
This book was written some time ago and although it's often referred to as the sort of quintessential account of the siege of Tibet, I don't think it really stands up to others I've read.
It's not a great book.
That being said, the first half is a great account of His Holiness's rise to the seat of the Dalai Lama and it's quite interesting to hear from the Lama's mouth what his life was like before and after China, which is what I think the true merit of this book is.
Though it is an autobiography of the Dalai Lama, I felt I learnt more about Tibet than about the person.
A nice succinct history of Tibet- told from his eyes but I did not get a peek into who the Dalai Lama was as a person.
It felt like a reluctant biography.
I read somewhere "To preserve a becoming brevity which excludes everything that is redundant and nothing that is significant- that surely is the first duty of the biographer".
I felt a lot of significant aspects were missing; ranging from things Iike his birth name to his feelings about his position and his spiritual journey.
While reading this book, I was struck by several things.
Second, throughout the book there is a tone of hope that a peaceful solution can and will be found.
Third, the power of rhetoric ("reactionaries", "expansionist imperialists") is astonishing and baffling when seen in black and white on the page.Glad to know more about the struggle that Tibet has had, as the original events were before my time.
Also glad that this impressive man shared his thoughts and experiences for me to read.
This one I probably started speed-reading to get it over with.★★ - Average.
Probably skimmed parts of it.★★★ - Decent.
This one had parts that inspired me, impressed me, made me laugh out loud, made me think - it got positive reactions and most of the rest of it was pretty decent too.★★★★★ - Amazing.
This is the best I've read of its genre, the ones I hold on to so I can re-read them and/or loan them out to people looking for a great book.
The best of these change the way I look at the world and operate within it.
You can't get a closer historical account of the Tibet / China conflict than this.It is a very well-written history of events and also the present struggles of the Tibetan people.
The Dalai Lama has an uncanny sense of compassion and it is easy to see from this book why he was awarded the 1989 Nobel Peace Prize.
I very much enjoyed reading the book and highly recommend it.
Anybody interested in Asian history, world politics, Buddhism, or human rights issues will enjoy this first hand account of the invasion of Tibet by the Chinese government.
A must read for those trying to understand the crisis in my beautiful country of TIBETHow those barbaric, communist Chinese soldiers massacred my people (from all backgrounds including monks,childrens and what not) and looted my land. Through this book you see through the eyes of his holiness the Dalai Lama and how he had to strive to keep his land and people safe.Worth reading again and again. By the time you finish this book you will be in tears, enraged, and compassionate all at once.Bless his holiness, the 14th Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso.

Everything here is told with a gentle bigheartedness - from the descriptions of his beloved land and people to the poignant narration of the loss of this home and all that he and his people held dear to the Chinese oppression.What it means to be a Dalai Lama; it also tells the story of a people and a man who don't seem to belong to this modern world. A world that had become too small to let peaceful people, just be.
I didn't think I was going to like this book but it ended up being life altering. I understand more of whats going on in China. This book will make you so mad at China. I don't understand why they have to be that way to these peaceful people. But then I started thinking about what people think of America. They probably think the same about us. I am not saying they are the same, just observing the differents.
This book helped me see the Dalai Lama in a new light: not just as "His Holiness the Dalai Lama of Tibet" who is to be completely enlightened, but as a man who overcame adversity as we all do...one day at a time. This book was difficult to put down as its descriptive passages helped keep you wanting more. I recommend it to everyone.
This book really helped me to better understand the initial conditions of China's invasion of Tibet and the subsequent deterioration of Tibet-China relations which led to the Dalai Lama's escape into exile and the start of the Tibetan genocide. I would now like to read more of the Dalai Lama's writings.
The Dalai Lama's story is fascinating. The events he endured and still endure are incredible. He is a light in so many peoples lives, especially Tibetans who look to him for guidance and perseverance under the oppressive Chinese regime. The Dalai Lama is truly a remarkable, kind, loving man and I had the amazing opportunity to see him speak in India on my birthday no less. Remarkable.
I read this book while I was listening to the audio CD of Seven Years in Tibet. The life of this incredible man and the resilience with which he lives his life is inspiring. I'm not ashamed to say I cried a several passages. The summer after I read these books, all my conversations revolved around the life of His Holiness the Dalai Lama.
An honest account of the history and culture of Tibet and what happened when China invaded Tibet. This book also offers a good glimpse on Tibetan Buddhism and the vigorous training monks have to go through across both religious and academic studies.
As a Tibetan born in exile this was a great book for me to read. It's great to know and hear about the events that led us into exile through HH 14th DL own accounts and experience. There were a lot of minor details that I wasn't aware of that I learned.
The autobiography of the Dalai Lama, what an amazing story. I had no idea what he endured throughout his lifetime. If anyone could hold a grudge, be angry or hate, it's him. The fact that he has chosen to love others speaks volumes of his character.
Great autobiography on the thirteenth Dalai Lama. If you're at all interested in all the Free Tibet campaign you see around this book covers it all from the man in charge. Great book, very inspiring what the man has done with his life.
