https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24985.Bellwether
I owe bellwether a review.Bellwether is a book that I inevitably turn to when I want something that is light, clever, literate and sweet.Sandra Foster has been studying fads, specifically trying to identify what started the bobbed hair craze at some time in the 1920s.The company administrative assistant, Flip, is pretty much the worst ever, and one day when she mis-delivers a 'perishable' (not 'fragile,' as Pip says) to Sandra, Sandra finds herself taking the package down to the Biology Department, where she meets Bennett O'Rielly, a chaos researcher who seems to be entirely immune to fashion fads.What happens is a more than a bit of gradually escalating chaos as they each try to work on their respective projects, turn in the annual funding request to the Hi-Tek Corporation, dodge team-building meetings, and avoid Flip's oblivious tendencies towards destruction.Each chapter begins with a description of a fad, much like certain books begin chapters with aphorisms.
Bellwether is one of Connie Willis' non-SF satirical (even farcical at times) comedies.
Here’s my evolving take on this unique novel: The bellwether sheep, who leads the flockBellwether Read #1, sometime around 2005: 3 stars.
But some of my GR friends love this book, so YMMV.Interim thoughts (in between Read #1 and Read #2): Even though Bellwether didn't wow me the first time I read it, I've downloaded it and am going to give it a reread.
(hide spoiler)]Bellwether Read #2, October 2015: 4 stars.
I think the first time I read it I just expected more science fictiony stuff because, well, Connie Willis, and this short novel isn't that.
Not science fiction but rather fiction about science, akin to the distinction between a girlfriend and a friend that’s a girl. And like the difference between a platonic and an amorous relationship, this book is fun without too many complications. It's about trend analysis, meaning a sociological study of fads, and chaos theory and how they interrelate. It's also well written, chatty and a light, enjoyable read. I'll read more of her work.
On the one hand, this is a purely wonderful and madcap whirlwind of farcical trendsetting, and I mean that most literally, in that it's ABOUT the madcap whirlwind of farcical trendsetting, and yet for all its humor, its chaos, its insight into human and animal behavior, and even how fads rule the sciences, I have to admit that this isn't *actually* science fiction.It is a fantastic novella, though.
:) It's funny on so many different levels, and there's even a romance that hits us like a fad from out of nowhere and changes everything, just like the never-ending quest to discover the source of the Bob hairstyle or the source of the Nile when people don't understand that gravity goes down.Baaaaaaaa.I'm still chuckling after reading this.
My main problem with Connie Willis books is that they usually have great characters and an interesting plot, but are thick with too much narrative padding, typically in the form of "funny bits" about bureaucratic incompetence and miscommunication due to mishaps with modern technology, and exhaustively-researched recitation of facts tangentially related to the story (famous last words and the Titanic disaster in Passage; facts of life during the Blitz in Blackout/All Clear; etc.).
Sandra Foster is a researcher in a big institute called HiTek and her project is the study of all fads, fashions, trends: how are they started, why are people following them blindly, how can they be controlled, predicted, used (presumably by the big corporations that are sponsoring her studies).
They take their time though in getting together, preferring instead to concentrate on work and on the multiple obstacles put in the way of their success by Flip (“An antiangel, wandering through the world spreading gloom and destruction.”), Managment and a reluctant flock of sheep.
Think Pink!-	Eliminate acronyms.-	Eliminate meetings.-	Study effect of antismoking fad on ability to think clearly.-	Read Browning.
bell·weth·er - [ bél wèthər ]1. indicator of future developments or trends2. leader3. a sheep that leads the rest of the flock, usually wearing a bell around its neck"Bennett told me you're working on fads analysis. Why did you decide to work with fads?""Everybody else was doing it."Sandra Foster works for the HiTek corporation studying fads. How do fads start? Why do some things catch fire while others fizzle? And how can HiTek get in on the action? Purely by accident, she meets Bennett O'Reill
a sheep that leads the rest of the flock, usually wearing a bell around its neck"Bennett told me you're working on fads analysis.
Why did you decide to work with fads?""Everybody else was doing it."Sandra Foster works for the HiTek corporation studying fads.
He's a fascinating specimen to Sandra, as he seems completely immune to the influence of trends.
It's just we're putting new coversheets on all the TPS reports before they go out now."Working for HiTek means filling out 68-page funding request forms and attending frequent, time-wasting meetings where employees learn about Efficiency Enhancers and perform sensitivity exercises that involve giving your partner a hug that says "I appreciate your personness."Willis's characters never really come to life, but the story was such a swell ride, I didn't really mind that fact.
*2.5 stars*Underwhelming from Connie Willis, one of my long-time favorite authors. This book is less sci-fi (in fact, I didn't even shelve it as such), and more realistic fiction or speculative fiction, or even romantic comedy. It's really hard to describe this book. It is sort of a rambling narrative about trends (actually pretty interesting), interpersonal relationships, and office environments with some chick-lit thrown in. It is a weird mix, and though I had no problem listening to it (due to an always great narration by Kate Reading), it was oddly dissatisfying. I like other Connie Willis books much more.
Back in April Dorian's husband said that it would be good if some friends could go visit her on a regular basis, to read or talk to her, along with the daily visits he and her family were doing.
The first Friday I went, I brought To Say Nothing of the Dog, because it was a book I'd loaned Dorian shortly after we met up for the first time.
(And yes, that would the exact wording.) Sandra predicts great things at the end of Bellwether, and I very much hope someday to get a cranky commentary from Dorian on my reading - whether choices or performance doesn't matter at all.
A very different take on marketing and trends than the one presented in William Gibson's "Pattern Recognition!" Still, this book has some similarities: they're both non-sci-fi novels by authors known for their science fiction, and they both deal, thematically, with the human tendency toward ‘fads.' However, where Gibson's character Cayce has an almost psychic attunement to these trends, Willis' narrator is a much less glamorous, stressed-out researcher who's trying to understand how and why trends happen by attempting to track down the source of past fads.
The heroine is a sociologist working for some kind of research firm (how this firm actually makes money is entirely unclear) who is attempting to isolate what triggers social fads in general, and hair bobbing in particular.
About 1/3 of the satire is directed at the firm the heroine works for, but making fun of giant companies is like shooting fish in a barrel, and there's nothing remotely fresh or funny about Willis' efforts here.
Indeed, it reads all too much like an author working out their frustration with modern society.
As you may know, I have an up-and-down relationship with Connie Willis books.
I think some of them are astoundingly good.
I think some of them are very weak.
So I always start a new one wondering which it's going to be.
And then there's Bellwether, which is barely even science fiction, and it's fun, but a bit forgettable.
This one didn't disappoint me, but it wasn't anything more than fine.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
probably because the romance isn't everything, it doesn't feel separate from reality, but rather like it fits within it.Also, I love the sheep.I'm going to have to buy this one too.I want to read it again.
ANd a lot of the fads themselves.Also, the fact that they get a bellwether sheep to lead their little flock, and potentially teach it new things (as a way of combining biology and trend research), the Bellwether is ornery and butts Bennett in the knee.
The complete waste of time exercises they come up with in the hopes that it will increase productivity (when it actually interferes with it), the jive turkey meetings, and horrible acronyms, and the fact that said environment is so fertile for folks like Flip, Desiderata, and even Dr. Bullock.
I loved how Sandra processed Flip, who is a complete slave to fads and seems about the most useless person on earth.
I also loved how Sandra is a big reader and she processes life events in light of what she's read.
And for sure to those looking for Nerd Love and satire about the corporate work environment.
Unfortunately the plot moves slowly, the writing is competent in a breezey way and the researchers don't appear to do any real research.
Apart from the rather unlikely ways in which the main characters conduct their research (going to the public library to find general books on sheep?
Sorting newspaper clippings but never having any idea of a theoretical approach?) there are just silly factual mistakes, like when the protagonist is said to have a double major in her PhD.William Gibson's Pattern Recognition is about the same general ideas but is much better written with a more engaging and less cliched plot.
Connie Willis develops an intriguing tale set in the 90's of scientists at a large research firm named Hi-Tek. Sabrina Foster studies fad source analysis.
Sabrina checks out her favorites once a year so the library doesn't sell them because even Dickens get sold if no one is reading him.
'Bellwether' is a very funny tongue in cheek book.Sabrina studies fads to see how they are started.
Due to Flips incompetence,and Sabrina's sense of responsibility, Sabrina delivers the package and meets Chaos Theorist, Bennett O'Reilly, who seems to be completely free of fads.
When Flip loses Bennett's funding request Sabrina adapts her research project so he can keep his job.
Re-read in December 2015.Bellwether isn’t science fiction, though the story is about scientists.
At heart it’s an off-beat romance between a couple of researchers, and it follows the often hit-and-miss process of scientific discovery.
The descriptions of the management nonsense imposed at the fictional HiTek are absolutely spot-on (something I know from personal experience) – promoting the least competent, "improving" efficiency by introducing new forms of bureaucracy, repackaging old ideas as new initiatives with shiny new acronyms.
in innovation, as well as in fashion.It’s a charming, fast and funny read.
THIS IS NOT SCIENCE FICTION ! This is just horrible fiction! I suffered through 6 hours of gibberish and none-sense ,listened to some ridiculous fads throughout the history ,heard the phrase "hair bobbing" about a million times ,some weird reasoning for scientific breakthroughs and social analysis . The only good this about this book that helped me to continue was the narrator .
Can we all agree to stop comparing banning smoking in public lounges to a) racial segregation and b) the Holocaust? Thx.A tedious, unamusing, and flat rom-com populated with tedious, unamusing, and flat characters. So, this was a good book to pick up to get back into reading Connie Willis. (A lie.)
Sandra teams up with Bennett to combine chaos theory and trends and maybe find some solutions to the weirdness of life.Sandra's musings on trends make for fun micro-histories, Flip's disastrous "assistance" makes for good comedy, and Willis does a nice job building a brightly-colored world and giving you a Sandra's -eye view of it as a place full of ebbing and flowing cultural obsessions with colors, books, angels, foods, and even breeds of cattle.
Thank you, GR friend Carol, for rating and praising this so highly, because that’s what got me to try Connie Willis again.
Kate Reading was wonderful as Sandy, the narrator, but her depiction of Flip got old after a few discs.
A lot of the fads she pokes fun at are dated (or so exaggerated to have never existed) but the themes hold up.
I loved the segments at the start of each chapter that talked about fads throughout history.
I learned as much as I laughed reading this book.
She blends pop culture, scientific discovery, chaos theory, Robert Browning, fads and an infuriating office assistant to produce a book where thinking for oneself gets you blank looks of incomprehension.
(It's been a long time since I thought about Pet Rocks or mood rings, for example.) Listening to the audiobook, courtesy of SFFaudio, I realized that it gave me a real sense of perspective on a lot of things that drive me crazy by reminding me that these are simply the most current fads (Paleo / gluten-free diets, smart phones, SnapChat, etc.).
a fun read that is not popcorn.
it's not popcorn because Willis does an interesting thing: she tells you a lot about chaos theory and statistical analyses while keeping you very, very amused about Cerenkov blue, and Barbies, and sheep.
she is studying fads--how they begin, bow they spread, in an effort to understand how a thing reaches a critical cultural mass and is adopted (however briefly) by huge numbers of people.
she's chosen to do so via the somewhat obscure trend for hair-bobbing: why vast numbers of women in the '20s suddenly chose to whack off their culturally-mandated long hair.
In fact, I'm not entirely sure what it is, altogether.I did enjoy it, all the way through, which is a step up for me when it comes to Connie Willis.
(I found The Domesday Book painful when it comes to pacing, but good, and haven't been able to finish anything else of any length by her.) But all the time I wasn't really sure what I was supposed to hook onto, what I was supposed to be connecting with.
Painful as I found the pacing, go with Domesday Book, or the novella I actually started with, Fire Watch.
The last 20 pages was a microcosm explaining how I felt throughout reading the entire book and therefore, I realized the smarts behind the author's intent!
While reading the book, you feel yourself being pulled into a constant state of chaos, unable to understand the author's intent, and all the while feeling frustrated and annoyed.
I believe, once FLIP (aka: chaos) is explained as the Bellwether, the book begins to come into focus and suddenly you see how the bellwethers in your own life or our society at large are surrounding us at every turn.
Even the science fun facts were enjoyable, since I've read entire books that essentially functioned as such.But damn Willis seems to have her hackles up about young people.
I don't think Willis' really appreciated that you can lampoon a character while still giving relatable traits to your caricature.They come off as thinly written while playing it off as satirical, but mocking people who follow trends is a line of comedy that dried up long before she had written this book.
I read Bellwether shortly after it was published some years ago, and enjoyed revisiting the audio version thanks to my local public library quite recently.
It's a great book, very cleverly written and meticulously researched and altogether an absolute joy to read (or hear)!
As an aside, on page 79 there's a list of five things that one can do in order to improve their job performance.
Almost all of us, I'm sure, have at one time or another been asked by our employers to submit such a list.
it's worked for me every time.
This book was so fun! It's about SCIENCE! It's set in BOULDER! The author lives nearby! But even without those similarities to my life, it's just an excellent read.
What follows are corporate sensitivity hugs, acronyms like GRIM and SHAM, cringe-worthy ways of dealing with spoiled brats (Esteem Enhancement is my fave), a duct-taped and branded assistant named Flip, and enough bureaucracy to make you feel as if you and Sandra are the only sane beings left on the planet.To remind us that Connie Willis is best known for her science fiction, there's a healthy smattering of scientific facts and observations, mostly centering on the key roles chaos, luck, and perseverance have played in the emergence of notable scientific breakthroughs.
This is delightful story of a scientist and her search for truth, well the truth about where fads start.
Our protagonist works for a company that wants to know, but there is a funding issue that has to be dealt with.I was a little slow in getting the style of humor, but once I got into the style, I was laughing and smiling all the way through the book.
What endeared the story for me, was how often I could say, "I know what she means".
If you've spent much time in corporate America or academia you will find something here that you have encountered.In the end the search for truth lead to something bigger than understanding fads.
