https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116731.The_Reprieve
Introduction--The Reprieve
In this book Sartre uses a really interesting technique in which he switches instantaneously from a 
---------------------------------------This novel is the second book of Sartre's "Roads to Freedom" trilogy: "The Age of Reason"; "The Reprieve", and "Troubled Sleep".
The trilogy is over-simply described as an historical fiction occurring among the events leading to, and including, France's experience of World War II.
A handful of protagonists recur throughout.In "The Reprieve" these familiar fictional protagonists interact with their fates (and Europe's) as war with Germany is anticipated, and then "prevented", over Czechoslovakia.
Multiple sleepwalking characters in multiple locales across France and Europe interact unwittingly.
I speak insufficient French.But the rhythms of the prose as the interplay of locales and consciousnesses dance through historical times are still unforgettable.

Fiction describing the despair and confusion surrounding the events of the Treaty of Munich. Sartre, I admit, is not one of my favorite authors. But both the stream-of-consciousness style and the historical context gave me a better footing for appreciating the sulkiness that pervades his books.
If you could imagine reading this book not knowing anything about history you might believe that Sartre ended the book on a happy note, but of course the entire play (for this trilogy really is more like a play) is a monograph on absurdity.
The inevitability of the horror that is coming to Europe sits in the reader's mind the entire trilogy and Sartre plays with this knowledge that he knows the reader to possess.
At the time the book takes place they could not know what would happen, but Sartre's readers did know and they were sitting in Cafe's in Paris just after the war reading the stories of these foolish people.
I'm trying to imagine what it would have been like to have been a left-leaning French intellectual in 1939. You're used to defending Stalin on the grounds that he's at least against Hitler. Then he suddenly goes and forms an alliance with him. Sartre does his best to convey how this felt, as does de Beauvoir in the second volume of her memoirs. But I still can't really grasp it. Oh well.
Interesting in the change of people and situations in the narrative. This stream of consciousness writing is in the beginning disconcerting but did grow on me. The plot revolves around The Munich peace of 1938 and the delay of war for another year. Switching back between all the characters from the first novel and some new ones. The change mobilization brings to many of the characters is the theme and the impact it has on them. I look forward to the final book of the trilogy.
“Freedom is exile, and I am condemned to be free,” he grimly deduces from this intuition, and his attention moves to consider the condition of his own body, with his own hands appearing to him as parts of the external world from which is profoundly apart.For a moment he plays with this idea by leaning his body across the bridge, saved from plunging into the Seine only by these hands grasping a ledge.
أسلوب سارتر الروائي مبهر ويشدني كثيرًا، ولكنه اتبع في هذا الجزء أسلوبًا لم يناسبني، إذ اختار التنقل من شخصية إلى أخرى دونما فواصل، أو جملٍ انتقالية، بل إنه ينتقل من شخصية إلى أخرى دون أن يذكر اسم الشخصية حتى، فيختلط على المرء المُتحدِّث لكثرة الشخصيات وتضليل الأسلوب.
وأجد بأنه على الرغم من أن هذا الأسلوب يظهر عبقرية سارتر ومقدراته الأدبية، إلا أنه كان منغصًا بالنسبة لي، ولم أجِد فيه لذة.
Disappointing, tedious, awkward, unwieldy, a grossly inferior sequel. Doesn't come close to capturing the anguish and confusion of the first novel, instead it just bashes the reader over the head with tired tropes about self-knowledge and the like.
الحرب، حرب شعوب بأكملها ومصيرها بيد رجلٍ واحد ما عليه سوى أن يقرر إن كان يريد السلم أو الحرب، وأولئك الذين يساقون نحو المسلخ وهم رافضين الحرب خاضعين لها، الحرب التي تطال الجميع: البرجوازيين والبروليتاريين وحتى المشردين الذين لا يجيدون القراءة ليعلموا أن تم إستدعائهم للحرب. القادة خلف مكاتبهم يقررون الحرب أو السلم، والشعوب هي التي تُسلخ، المصير العبثي لهذا العالم الغبي.
لم استطع احتمالها قبل ثلاث سنوات ولم استطع احتمالها اليوم
Mesmo assim, suspeito que há uma perda de entusiasmo, não só minha, mas também da parte do escritor, pelo menos nas primeiras duzentas páginas.
Mathieu é a personagem mais autobiográfica de Sartre, e face à guerra ele não vê mais o existencialismo como uma matéria puramente auto-determinada, senão fortemente moldada pelas condições (pressões) exteriores.
Quase como uma reação face ao stress (e aborrecimento) que circunda o ser.
Mas continuam a ser 363 páginas extensas, com pouco esplendor literário e pouco conteúdo (novo) filosófico.Não recomendo a ninguém, mais valia ter parado no primeiro livro.
He depicts the surreal nature of war and how it quickly surrounds everyone, distorting perceptions of the reality of the Third Reich and its plan as individuals lived their lives in a bubble.
It shows the human incapacity to understand the immediate context of their lives while they look to the future.
In the end, people could not see what was near and therefore could not see far either, suspended in their own confusion and disbelief.
Shows how quickly we can become victims of our own perception of reality.
Sort of difficult to stay with this book, but worth it in the end.
Aside from being a brilliant intellectual and philosopher, Sartre was an amazing writer.
This is best shown (of the books I've read of course) in this second part of the "Roads to freedom" series.
But, instead of making the story incoherent and sketchy, the attention to details and great depictions of characters, actually makes the book flow very much like watching a movie.The story is set in France, during a very intense time on the brink of world war II.I realize that by reading this i will, if anything, finish the series backwards, but I do not think this will be such a bad thing.
I think this book has the most characters of any book I've read. WW2 is a looming reality and the writing style reflects the effect this has had on life. Sometimes Sartre switches perspectives, time and place within a sentence. We are bounced back from Paris, London, Prague, Berlin and Russia. When we catch up with all the characters that we know from Age of Reason, they are altered by the situation. It's interesting to see the different ways people thought of Hitler and the Germans before it all went down.
Poor existentialist novel . Complex interweaving of characters for no good reason . Incomplete characters . Sartre is not Tolstoy and 'the reprieve' is not an existentialist 'War and Peace ' .There was no freedom but words which amounted to situations. And when there was a glimpse of freedom , it came in a form that was unappealing . While 'the age of reason' takes you nowhere , 'the reprieve' takes you to particular places at particular time . A reprieve that I finished it .
What a shame when pretentiousness ruins a book! This would have been such a good book had it not been written by Sartre who, apparently, made it his life's goal to sound smart and incomprehensible. After having read some five of his books, I really do think he was a much better philosopher than writer.
A bit better than the first book; I really got into a few of the characters. They really represent the worst of most of us-except for Delarue who is generally a super logical, passionless person. Looking forward to the last book of the series.
bener-bener terombang-ambing kaum proletar gara-gara kaum pemegang kekuasaan. perang dunia kedua yg hny membuat kecemasan" bnyn pihak.bny tokoh dalam novel ni dg kegelisahan masing".
It's suitable because this book is basically one giant cliffhanger, achingly wrenching it's characters (and, via the unique prose style, you) over the engulfing precipice of the disaster of war.
It's coming to us, and it's coming soon" affects people individually and gets enacted through the filters of gender roles/ masculinity and femininity; sexuality; class; personality type / pessimism and optimism; level of education (my absolute favourite character in the book was an illiterate man who was unable to read the newspaper to even be aware of what was happening in the world); personal strength and weakness; and also its impact on family structures and relationships.We gain understanding on a breathtaking array of insights into human reactions to the promise of coming disaster which feel utterly relatable, real and applicable to the general experience of fear and dread.

Alamak buku ini. Setelah sekian lama ya akhirnya selesai juga. Menarik karena cara bercerita yang berganti-gantian dari satu karakter ke karakter lain. Saking menariknya kadang-kadang gue bingung dan harus baca beberapa bagian berkali-kali. Buku ini bercerita tentang perang. Perang, perang, dan perang. Jerman, Prancis, dan perang. Bagaimana perang bisa nenyentuh dan berpengaruh pada kehidupan orang-orang siapapun orang itu. Tentara, ibu rumah tangga, bapak-bapak, imigran, pemabuk, ABG. Oke, tapi ya sampai 'oke' aja.
Bittiğine inanamıyorum. Hiç bitmeyecek gibiydi. Bide gittim manyak gibi 3.kitabini aldım. Sartre aşkına! Akıl çağına kıyasla baya sıkıcı idi. Ve bilinç akışı tekniği gibi bir teknik kullanılmıştı. Bu da hikayeyi takip etmemi zorlaştırdı. Karakterler birbirine karıştı bide başlayalı uzun zaman olduğundan ve ara verdiğimden dolayı da karakterlerin hangisi hangisinin olduğunu kitap bitmesine rağmen öğrenemedim.
Interesting style to this novel set in the days leading up to Hitler's decision to invade Czechoslovakia. The reader is "thrown" into the middle of scenes which take some time to figure out the characters and setting. Settings and characters change from one paragraph to the next. Not difficult to follow once the reader gets the hang of it.
Gila! Sudut pandang tiap karakter bergantian secara sporadis. Saya harus membaca mundur 1halaman kalau break, biar paham. Memang, tidak sederhana untuk mengetahui pikiran atau karakter seseorang. Sartre dengan gamblang menceritakan gelisah2 orang-orang atas perang yang sebenarnya tidak terjadi. Hanya perang batin. Karena kehidupan sama saja di mana-mana—selalu sama (491).
OK, I get the simultaneity of actions, characters not left to their own devices, moved by events foreign to their selves, drinking, acting out, making love and shitting their pants. But reading paragraphs which start with Mathieu, follow to Hitler and end up with Lola is rather uncomfortable. Not to Sartre apparently - he makes his point.
A powerful rendering of the rumbling beginnings of WWII from a French perspective. The narrative is expertly constructed, the plethora of characters is easy to follow and sympthize with, and the story is compelling.
A great read by a master of thoughts. Sartre takes us back in time and helps us relive the dismay, prejudice and confusion of a war-torn world. A satisfying read for thinkers and readers alike.
