https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22747485-on-the-abolition-of-all-political-parties
For her, "The true spirit of 1789 consists in thinking not that a thing is just because such is the people’s will, but that in certain conditions, the will of the people is more likely than any other will to conform to justice."What impedes this spirit is the attempt to corrupt the free will and reasoning ability of individuals.
For Weil, political parties are vehicles of collective passion whose function is to instil conformity through social pressure.
Political parties kill conscience and promote mendacity, thus destroying the most fundamental connection with reality: Truth.
I wasn't expecting the rationalist hand-waving that attempts to transform thought into a series of vacuumed assumptions in the name of mathematical "logic" and "truth", but Weil's actions speak louder than the words which eventually, fortunately, followed the former.
Whenever a circle of ideas and debate would be tempted to crystallise and create a formal membership, the attempt should be repressed by law and punished.
I as an individual fall within the jurisdiction of various circles of ideas and debate that have crystallized under a patriarchal, heteronormative, and ableist society.
As a result – except for a very small number of fortuitous coincidences – nothing is decided, nothing is executed, but measures that run contrary to the public interest, to justice and to truth.”•	“If one were to entrust the organisation of public life to the devil, he could not invent a cleverer device.”•	“Nearly everywhere – often even when dealing with purely technical problems – instead of thinking, one merely takes sides: for or against.
This is an intellectual leprosy; it originated in the political world and then spread through the land, contaminating all forms of thinking.
- "-" When a country has political parties, sooner or later it becomes impossible to intervene effectively in public affairs without joining a party and playing the game.
In the latter case, they shall experience worries that will soon supersede their original concern for the public interest.Political parties are a marvellous mechanism which, on the national scale, ensures that not a single mind can attend to the effort of perceiving, in public affairs, what is good, what is just, what is true.
Incredible essay that I will keep close by at all times. As well, I've just found a new favorite writer.
Weil's argument is quite clear, and seems pretty accurate: partisanship distorts thought, whereas disinterested thought helps politics.
The relevance to our present political rhetoric is pretty clear.
Consider, "Nearly everywhere - often even when dealing with purely technical problems - instead of thinking, one merely takes sides: for or against.
Such a choice replaces the activity of the mind." Now consider the political 'debates' about [insert any contentious political issue here.] The essay is padded out with another essay by Milosz, which I found very puzzling at times and insightful at others; and one by Simon Leys, which was unnecessary.
In short: parties compel people to treat politics like team sports and are therefore antithetical to the pursuit of truth and justice. This also applies more broadly to ideologies and religions. A short but well argued and worthwhile essay. Also included are interesting pieces by Czesław Miłosz (on Simone Weil) and Simon Leys (on Czesław Miłosz.)
In the title essay, Weil analyzes political parties and the party spirit.
Its sole purpose becomes its own indefinite perpetuation; it becomes about itself: "Once the growth of the party becomes a criterion of goodness, it follows inevitably that the party will exert a collective pressure on the people's minds.
I have been wanting to read Weil for years now and this felt like a good introduction to her life and work.
I also adore Milosz and Leys, and having all three in this volume was like listening in on a brilliant conversation.
When a country is in the grip of a collective passion, it becomes unanimous in crime. If it becomes prey to two, or four, or five, or ten collective passions, it is divided among several criminal gangs. Divergent passions do not neutralise one another, as would be the case with a cluster of individual passions. There are too few of them, and each is too strong for any neutralisation to take place. Competition exasperates them; they clash with infernal noise, and amid such din the fragile voice
Political parties are a marvellous mechanism which, on the national scale, ensures that not a single mind can attend to the effort of perceiving, in public affairs, what is good, what is just, what is true.
As a result -- except for a very small number of fortuitous coincidences -- nothing is decided, nothing is executed, but measures that run contrary to the public interest, to justice and to truth.
This is an intellectual leprosy, it originated in the political world and then spread through the land, contaminating all forms of thinking.
This leprosy is killing us; it is doubtful whether it can be cured without first starting with the abolition of all political parties.
La Weil scrive le sue riflessioni alla luce delle vicende storiche che hanno portato alla Seconda Guerra Mondiale ma sono talmente convincenti che conservano intatto il loro fascino anche ai nostri giorni e ci illuminano, ci fanno riflettere, sulla natura più profonda delle organizzazioni partitiche ed umane di tutti i tempi.
Non è chiaro con che strumenti possano agirla questa verità perché essa abbia una presa sulla vita pubblica, ma essa è una e i partiti invece sono tanti e ognuno persegue un fine che non è il bene di tutti ma l'interesse di un gruppo.
Di più, secondo la Weil i "partiti sono organismi costituiti pubblicamente, ufficialmente in modo da uccidere nelle anime il senso della verità e della giustizia".
If it were real, it would demand a great deal of effort and attention, for the mind does not easily encompass the concept of the public interest.
Conversely, the existence of the party is something concrete and obvious; it is perceived without any effort.
Therefore, unavoidably, the party becomes in fact its own end.And what should we be aiming for if not the success of a political party?
According to Weil, the answer if "truth, justice, and the public interest" -- things which get lost in the hugger-mugger of party politics.
I was apprehensive recalling how quickly Weil can at times slide from mysticism to the political muddle of, say, The Need For Roots, but I have to admit that my fears were misplaced: this is a serious, abstract work of Platonic ontological ethics, traits probably well-served by its severe brevity. (I'd recommend just ignoring the essays by Milosz and Leys by whatever trick you use to ignore Thibon's intolerable insertions in Gravity and Grace.)
The English version is available, as "On the Abolition of All Political Parties," translated by Simon Leys. Black Books, Australia, 2013. Includes an essay by Czeslaw Milosz. This is a brilliant essay by the French philosopher, originally published in 1957. Particularly apropos for today's political world.
Weil propone que para que se impoga el ideal de un bien común a todos los individuos de una sociedad es necesario suprimir los partidos políticos.Leyendo estas breves notas resonaba en mi cabeza la conocida "Ley de la oligarquía de hierro", enunciada por el sociólogo alemán Robert Michels en su libro "Los Partidos Políticos" (publicado en 1911).
Otra idea que resonó en mi cabeza mientras leía estas notas fue la siguiente frase de Nietzsche tomada de "Humano, demasiado humano": "Aquellos que piensan demasiado no militan en partidos políticos; muy pronto, acaban pensando por sí mismos y más allá del partido".Es difícil no estar de acuerdo con las reflexiones y diagnóstico de Weil, sin embargo su propuesta de suprimir los partidos políticos como solución parece más bien una quimera.
Her topical political writing after the Fall Of France was rather poor, she fell for some very glib "cultural" explanations that were no doubt circulating amongst the stunned intellectual class both at home and in exile, who couldn't accept that it was simple cowardice and inadequate training caused soldiers to run away from German tanks, rather than the supposed influence of Gide's novels.This particular essay was written not long before her death in 1943 and so shouldn't be treated too harshly as she wasn't in good condition by then.
But party politics, apart from its most poisonous extremist varieties, is a very weak and vinegary specimen of that particular brew.
A short book, HIGHLY recommended.
It contains an essay of Simone Weil’s that Simon Leys translated into English.
It concludes with an essay by Czeslaw Milosz and one of the translator’s.
Smarter people than I have reviewed this book.
However, I want to extend a personal recommendation to friends who may be reading.
Leys’ essay ends abruptly but Weil offers a timely critique of political parties.
I appreciate Weil’s passion.
Biographers have pointed out that she was incredibly sincere—to the point of apparently starving herself in the mid-1940s to protest an issue of mistreatment.
SPOILER ALERT...
Group identity always leads to totalitarianism.
Veľmi svieži, zvláštne utopický pohľad na tématiku politických strán spájajúci dokopy radikálny rousseauovský republikanizmus a kresťanské princípy. Ktovie, ako by vyzeral môj intelektuálny vývoj, keby som niečo podobné čítal pred nejakými 15-timi rokmi na predmete "Úvod do politológie"...
Este estado de mentira é gravoso, pois todas estas mentiras colocam o objetivo do partido sempre em primeiro lugar, e o objetivo do partido não é em si o bem comum, é ter mais poder, mais lugares executivos por via dos militantes e do aumento do número de votos.
Em resumo, esta obra é uma importante reflexão que apesar de curta é expõe os vícios originais dos partidos políticos, funciona como um alerta para que as sociedades democráticas não se deixem governar por maiorias absolutas estáveis e crescentes de um único partido, pois estas são caminho para a autocracia.
The real star here is Simone Weil's 'On the Abolition of All Political Parties,' an indictment of all of political parties regardless of affiliation.
Weil was writing in 1943 France, so is colored by both Hitler and 1789, but her vision is remarkably clear.
A Party politician, regardless of affiliation, exists in service to his Party, not the common good.
The Party will, no doubt, influence the politician to serve only it.
As such, in Weil's estimate, political parties are inherently evil.
Weil had no political affiliation herself and as the corroborating essayists would have it, had anarchist sympathies.
Rejecting what we would now call "politics as usual", she questioned the assumption that we need traditional parties in order to do politics.While I sympathise with this argument and I think that a great many people in Britain today would like to see politics conducted across parties, around issues that cover the national interest like Brexit, the economy, and the future of our public services, Parliament is set up for debates between different sides: we have the Government benches and the opposition benches, and most of the time there is no love lost between the politicians on each.So there would probably need to be a huge amount of reform in order to realise Weil's vision of politics conducted by individuals outside of party tribalism.
خوانده ام و ترجمه هم کرده ام.می توانید متن فایل اش را از من بگیرید.هنوز در حال تکمیل پیوست های اش هستم.فقط بعد از چاپِ ترجمه ای دیگر که دوستی گرامی انجام داده اند ، ترجمه ام را منتشر خواهم کرد.متنی است بی نظیر،بی نظیربی نظیر!www.ghkeshani.com
خوانده ام و ترجمه هم کرده ام.می توانید متن فایل اش را از من بگیرید.هنوز در حال تکمیل پیوست های اش هستم.فقط بعد از چاپِ ترجمه ای دیگر که دوستی گرامی انجام داده اند ، ترجمه ام را منتشر خواهم کرد.متنی است بی نظیر،‌بی نظیربی نظیر!www.ghkeshani.com
Coherent and concise. I like the way she thinks, and will be reading more. The argument makes total sense, but I'd have liked it to be explored from more angles. (She addresses a few essentially by saying they are out if scope, though.)
"Il est impossible d'examiner les problèmes effroyablement complexes de la vie publique en étant attentif à la fois, d'une part à discerner la vérité, la justice, le bien public, d'autre part à conserver l'attitude qui convient à un membre d'un tel groupement."
If you'll allow me, dear reader, a self-indulgent preamble— Readers of my novella  The Ecstasy of Michaela  will notice a few lines from Simone Weil quoted as the heroine's reading material. This should not be mistaken for deep familiarity with Weil on my part; I have read her in only in glimpses and glances and mainly thought that she was the sort of writer my fictional protagonist would be devoted to. In my experience, most creative writers read this way—I recently saw an essay in which Andy S
In pursuit of this argument, Weil says a lot of attractive things that will have the truth-seeking reader nodding happily along:Just imagine: if a member of the party (elected member of parliament, candidate or simple activist) were to make a public commitment, 'Whenever I shall have to examine any political or social issue, I swear I will absolutely forget that I am the member of a certain political group; my sole concern will be to ascertain what should be done to best serve the public interest and justice.'Such words would not be welcome.
Nesse livro, a autora declara sucintamente algo tão simples e tão violento como isto: os partidos políticos devem ser abolidos, pois não servem o bem.
Para Simone Weil, o bem é constituído por três elementos, nomeadamente a verdade, a justiça e a utilidade pública, dando assim a entender a sua abordagem moral da política.
No entender de Weil, as motivações ideológicas dos partidos políticos não têm qualquer ponto de contacto com a ideia do bem, por isso não faz sentido prolongar-lhes a existência.
É evidente que se pode criticar Simone Weil por ela não apresentar nenhuma proposta concreta no sentido de substituir os partidos políticos.
Simone Weil’s essay talks about how people are pulled either into the light of truth through a sense of unbiased reason, or away into the darkness through the bouts and vicissitudes of passionate desire.
It makes no sense, these days, to criticize someone for saying “As a democrat,” or “as a republican,” but these statements are parroted nonsense.
In that way each person, each representative evaluates for themselves the plans and policies and proposals of the others, asking questions and offering criticism, and each shall cast their votes, when the time comes, in the light of their own reason and the will of those whom they represent.
Weil is Cartesian in privileging reason and activities of the mind over feeling-states and opinions, because she believes in a transcendent moral foundation.The essay is repetitive as hell, which Milosz praises as coherent thinking.
A few more points worth mentioning: she believes there is an essential lack of independent thought when you proclaim membership to a political party, and how this political system of what we would call "identity politics" today is cancerous to a truly democratic, free-thinking society.
In short, the political party/group membership wants you to think that they have your best interest in mind, and thus, it is the same as the public interest -- however, this is not the case.
While T.M. doesn't cite Weil in his brief literature review, she would probably identify with the John Locke stance of intellectual honesty as obligation towards God.In this sense, this essay reveals Simone Weil as a highly spiritual person.
As with other liberal democratic institutions such as workers' unions, political parties are fundamentally insufficient means of emancipation, yet the alternative is far worse.
Si Rousseau pensait qu'une bonne démocratie ne permettrait au peuple de n'accomplir que le juste et le bon, pourquoi disait-il également qu'une bonne démocratie accordait au peuple le droit de se tromper ?En somme, ce livre est un excellent réquisitoire contre les partis, mais néanmoins, par l'expression qu'il contient des propres pensées partisanes de Simone Weil, montre aussi à quel point il est dur de venir à boût de l'esprit de parti, même à titre individuel.
Weil’s essay is interesting, albeit short.
I don’t know why they didn’t bundle this essay with two or three more of her’s, because it really is too bitty to seriously engage the reader.
To fill up space we have an essay by Czeslaw Milosz about Weil, and then an essay by the translator...about Milosz, mostly.
If you’re interested in Simone Weil, start somewhere else.
I wish I was joking, but that’s the vibe I felt from the supplemental essays.
Gravity and Grace is very interesting, though.
