https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31178.Back_When_We_Were_Grownups

I've said this before in reviews of her books, but she is so observant and is able to capture moments in her stories, whether between characters or just in one's head, that make me stop and think, "Oh wow, I've definitely thought that" or "That is totally something we would do!" I can picture her characters walking right off the page, and whether you like the characters or not, you can't deny that they are like people you know or can imagine being in your life.
This story was no exception to all of that, and I loved Rebecca as a main character.
Rebecca was thrust into a lifestyle that forced her to act differently than she was comfortable with, but because - according to Aristotle - "We are what we repeatedly do," she became that person anyway.
She chose to behave as if she were happy, in many ways purely for the comfort and happiness of others.
Her life epitomized the sentiment of Aristotle, and tells me that whatever situation I find myself, I still have the choice to behave the way I would have myself become, even if it includes the conscious choice of being happy.
why did i finish this?
why do i do that to myself - finish books that have no chance of improving?
i bought this because it was marked down to like $5 and i have heard that anne tyler is a beautiful writer and i like the cover (trite, but i do).
i didn't like the first 20 pages, so what compelled me to finish is beyond me, but i hated the characters, the characters' names (all cutesy nicknames like poppy, no no, bitsy, the non-chinese min foo, jeep, patch, etc), the protagonist, and how boring the plot, dialogue, and problems were.
This book was really good because it, once again, is one of those stories that Anne Tyler is best at writing.
A story about a large family with lots of dynamic going on.
In this specific family, 53-year-old Rebecca has started feeling out of place and she wonders what her life would've been like if she had chosen another path.
She fell into this trap which I'm sure a lot of us fall into as we get older: Which is to only remember about the good things and forget about the past.
I think the reason this book has received so many negative reviews is because Anne Tyler represents life in an uncomfortable way.
Some people choose to read as an escape from the day to day, and then Anne Tyler manages to adeptly make us face how we can make choices in our life that bog us down.
Rebecca is not a prototypical heroine, instead she's a woman who has to learn to love the life she has.
All stories cannot be adventures to far off lands.
Some stories don't lead us that far away from home.
I have only read about three of Anne's books, but in each case, I ended up feeling that she had delved deeply into my heart with lessons about life, loss, love, courage and joy, while making it seem almost effortless. This novel is no exception. The story of a woman who fears she has lost her true self, only to discover that she has been living the life she deserved all along, is just wonderful.
I thought I had read all of Anne Tyler's novels, but whilst waiting for her latest from the library, I came across this one which I don't remember ever reading before (though that's not an unknown occurrence these days).
All her novels are character driven and full of pitch-perfect dialogue – so much so, that they could just as well be written as plays.
The plots may be considered inconsequential by those looking for an action-packed adventure, and they can sometimes teeter on the edge of hokey, but it's no denying Tyler’s novels supply the feel-good factor and sense of identification with the situations described, which makes them so engaging and enjoyable.
However, I opened up the book and was drawn into the character of Rebecca almost immediately.
In the beginning, the names of the children were a little off-putting (Jeep, Min Foo, Patch, Troy, NoNo, Biddy, etc) but by the end of the story, I felt like I knew them and loved them anyway.
Rebecca contacts her old boyfriend from high school, Will, who meant so much to her back then, but whom she left in order to run away with a new guy nearly 13 years her senior, who already had 3 children.
“It struck her all at once that dealing with other human beings was an awful lot of work.”I admit that I am rarely drawn to light contemporary, I always expect the adult contemporary books I read to sort of have a darker twisted element but Anne Tyler is an exception.
I cared for the simple life of this one family through generations and I decided to pick up “Back When We’re Grownups” to sort of seeing if she is still living up to my expectations, even though it didn’t quite reach the other previous book I still got that special feeling through her writing.“There is no true life.
This is a beautiful book about a large crazy family that a woman doesn't feel a part of, but is.
I don't know if I fell for it especially because I'm all the way here in Berlin so the idea of a messy family constantly stopping in to ask favors and for advice is welcome when a bit lonely and missing my own family or if it was the dream the main character has of being on a train with a beautiful son, the type that is scholarly and kind and a little unsociable and, or if it was my identification with her, a heavyish woman who was shy and restrained in her earlier years and then becomes someone she feels she's not, this merry jolly woman, until she finally realizes in the end that this is who she, in fact, is, but I found it to be comfortable and touching, whatever the reason.
And that was an amazingly run-on sentence.
3-4 *s I enjoyed this audio. IMO, Anne Tyler is usually an effortless and expert storyteller. This title reminded me of Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant -in that off putting characters became endearing and "charming in their dysfunction."(don't know where I got that quote from, but I do know I am not the source).
It was actually depressing, and feels like such a waste of time now.
I’d heard that Anne Tyler is a beautiful writer, and the book has a great opening line, “Once upon a time there was a woman who discovered she had turned into the wrong person.” Recently, I’ve been liking books with 50ish female protagonists (since I’m a 50ish female, I guess), but nothing ever happens to or, really, in her.
I kept expecting Rebecca to go through some life changes, to be happier in the end.
When I was in high school, I read a lot of Anne Tyler novels, and with "Back When We Were Grownups," I've rediscovered my love for Anne Tyler and her tender, insightful writing about everyday subject matter.This book begins: "Once upon a time, there was a woman who discovered she had turned into the wrong person" (p.
261)8) "Let's say you had to report back to heaven at the end of your time on earth, tell them what your personal allotment of experience had been: wouldn't it sound like Poppy's speech?
Rebecca Davitch, widowed and in her 50s, suddenly feels discontent with her life and her role as head of the eccentric Davitch clan.
Rebecca wonders if she is actually happy or if she ought to change some elements of her life.I absolutely hated this book and am stunned by some of the good reviews I see online.
Rebecca is a weak, wishy-washy martyr of a female protagonist who complains a lot about her life but never really tried to figure any of it out beyond wondering if she married the right man 30 years ago.
Rebecca, the main character, tries to uncover where her real life diverged from the life she was meant to live.
There were hints of interesting storylines throughout, including some suggestion that Rebeccah's late husband's car accident might have been a suicide.
But these storylines don't go anywhere.
Reasons I disliked this book (and am beginning to dislike Tyler's work in general) : --obnoxious characters with names like Jeep, Patch, and Ming Fu.--characters discover personal truths that could be cross-stitched on a pillow for sale at a church bazaar.
Spoiler alert: We don't have one true life, we live the life we are given.
What would life have been like if she hadn’t become a stepmother to Joe’s three girls but instead married her college sweetheart, Will?She gets in touch with him to find out, but this plot strand doesn’t seem to go anywhere, and in the end it’s unclear whether this character has actually changed or learned anything.
Your true life is the one you end up with, whatever it may be.
Yet I didn't feel the novel lived up to the full potential of this opening sentence.
Rebecca had a lot of interesting thoughts and emotions but she never put that into any kind of action and that's what made her a boring character.
A doormat to her daughters for babysitting, organizing parties/dinners, complaints and insults --I kept expecting Rebecca to at least throw one revolt against them or her children to thank her, smile at her, or at the very least give her some kind of loving, appreciative glance.
And unlike most of the other characters, he showed Rebecca moments of appreciation.
A widow for many years, Rebecca "suddenly" found herself facing a life she had never anticipated.
The past she wanted to reclaim was only that relationship which didn't work when she was young.
She didn't seem to be seeing what kind of life she would lead if she was able to reclaim it.
What I thought I wanted when I was that age bears no resemblance to what I now think of as a satisfying life.
Although when I was 53 (Rebecca's age), I might have wanted to make changes, going back to 20 wasn't remotely what I wanted.
Rebecca--in Baltimore, as always with Tyler--heads a family party-salon business started by her dead husband, a man 13 years her senior whom from the first she'd viewed as a laughing, energetic, full-of-life type of guy who was going to 'save' her from the dull obscurity of her own upbringing: the quiet, bookish only child of an exacting widow, a 19 year old 'heavyset' girl (the way Tyler describes her, she comes off as sort of Dutch milkmaid!) engaged-to-be-engaged to an equally quiet, bookish only child, a boy whom from the first we know is not the 'right one' by his fastidiousness.
There is the myth of a life of continuous improvement.
Portraying that life in all its mundane glory is what this author does best."On the screen, Rebecca's face appeared, merry and open and sunlit, and she saw that she really had been having a wonderful time.""Poppy said.
“Because I was always telling him, ‘Look,’ I said.
‘Face it,’ I said.
‘There is no true life.
Your true life is the one you end up with, whatever it may be.
You just do the best you can with what you’ve got,’ I said.”"
Where is this book going? I spent half the book trying to answer this question. I finally realized that this novel's central theme was based on the main characters never ending question in her head about what could have been if only (fill in the blank). It's about the choices we make and how we choose to live with them. How they define us.
Okay, I admit it: I'm a huge fan of Tyler, and will read her books--when in a particular mood and place--over and over.
This is the second (third?) read of this book for me.And I'm loving it!
Perhaps even more than before because as my own writing progresses and becomes increasingly more skillful, I am in awe of the delicious, humorous, warm, unique, and sad tone that Tyler seems to access with such ease and grace.
She is one of the rare writers who appeals to 'the masses', yet writes with such skill, authenticity, and depth that her work rises way above 'trade paperback'.
Back When We Were Grownups #BPutting aside the fact that Anne Tyler is a brilliant writer, and that the realization here - that your life can escape you, that maybe you were actually more mature when you were younger, when you were studious, when you had plans - is sentimental and astute and actually genius, the book itself was just so-so.
I was able to race through it pretty quickly, but the characters in the loud, brash, clashing Davitch family were tough to love.I haven't read Anne Tyler in a very long time, and I wouldn't rush into another sentimental family portrait, but she really is so clever that sometimes it feels her insights are wasted on these kinds of stories.
Anne Tyler is such a wonderful writer. I was completely wrapped up in the life and lifestyles of the family, laughing with them, cringing with them, and enjoying the obliviousness they projected amid biting moments of truth. Like the light on a train full of amazing characters, Rebecca's search for herself and the circuitous route she took to discover who she truly was makes for a lively, compelling story.
A pleasure to read this character study for my in-person book group. It didn't turn out how I'd hoped, but that's how life goes I guess.
Nunca questionei o meu passado, nem mesmo as decisões erradas, não alterava nada, acredito que só assim é possível fazer de mim o que sou hoje, então porquê remexer no passado se não o podemos alterar? E mesmo que pudesse alterar, as consequências poderiam ser bem piores, então viveria numa constante reconstrução do passado em vez de construir o presente e o futuro.Opinião completa aqui: http://baudatanocas.blogs.sapo.pt/no-...
Toinenkin Tyler oli sujuvaa luettavaa, mutta jotain pientä tästä jäi puuttumaan. Vai olikohan sittenkin jotain liikaa, henkilögalleria tuntui osin vähän sekavalta. Carol Shields tuli vahvasti mieleen, mutta samalle tasolle ei päästy. Jatkamme harjoituksia.
Lots of small-talk.Seems to me that the book begins with too many characters introduced early-on during the first few pages.
After a while you wonder who is who.I also borrowed the film adaptation of this same novel on DVD from the library.
But at least I saw who the characters were and a bit of the plot before the DVD broke down.I also borrowed the audio version.
I had given up on the book because it was filled with small-talk and domestic details.
It was the part about the main character and her "old boyfriend".I also started to realize how much of the writing is missed when listening as opposed to when reading.
I finished this book a couple months ago, and I find myself still thinking about it, about Rebecca, her life, her choices.
This book was recommended to me, since my own life has some uncanny similarities.This book is about family, and about love - love lost due to death (Rebecca's late husband), and love lost due to Rebecca "throwing it away" as she left her fiance so many years ago.
It's about the love that is all around Rebecca - which is mostly family by marriage, even though her husband has been gone over 20 years.
