https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1002570.A_Buddhist_Bible
I get that it's foundational for studies of buddhism in the west, but a lot of the translations are pretty archaic... Just because you put "Bible" in the title doesn't mean you need to model your style on the King James version.
This isn't the most amazing collection, or the best translation, but for historical impact this gets an extra star. Definitely a great intro to the concepts of Buddhism, with a simplicity and sincerity that more modern translators sometimes lack.
I carried this book everywhere I went for years. It slowly fell apart, but by then I had absorbed all I could and it felt good to part with it.
The beats in the 1950s were one of the sources leading to the growth of American Buddhism, and Goddard's book was Kerouac's teacher.The main value of this book, though, is not in its role in Buddhist history in the United States but lies in the texts themselves.
I have found that many people interested in Buddhism restrict themselves to the practice of meditation or to books setting out Buddhist teachings rather than availing themselves of the original source materials.
A Buddhist Bible: The Favorite Scriptures of the Zen Buddhist Sect (English Edition) by Dwight Goddard.
The only reason to read a book like this is if you're interested in Buddhism.
It contains The Diamond Sutra, the Sutra of the 6th Patriarch, the Lankavatara Sutra and a Preface on the history of Zen or Chan, as it's called in China, Buddhism by Dwight Goddard.
The Kindle edition is a selection from a much earlier book.
The translations have been edited and that's probably a good idea because the timespan since they were originally written is over 1,500 years.
It's like asking someone to rate the Bible!
This was an excellent book. Very informative. I would recommend this book to anyone that wants a straightforward understanding of Buddhism.
Comprehensive and compelling; however, a bit muddled and convoluted in translation. Of course, a laborious and wonderful endeavor to bring Gautama's life and work into the American Lexicon.
Reading just a little more in-depth, I can see how this broad overview has led to some common misconceptions in the Western educated mind about what Buddhism actually is.It is not:-Selfish or obsessed with the Self: Almost every sutra, whether attributable to the Buddha himself or not, emphasizes the importance of compassion and kindness toward others.
Life is often too complicated to fit everything into a good/bad, yes/no framework, and trying to force this interpretation will only lead to more problems.When reading this book, it is also important to remember that there really is no such thing as a "Buddhist Bible." This term is more of a convenience for Western minds which may have nothing else to compare this collection with.
Great introduction to the philosophy and different sects. A bit dated in some entries but very accessible to the novice and indispensable as a quick reference to the eagle-eyed philosophy nerd seeking to merge physics with spirituality in explaining the perception of reality through literature...possibly. Essentially it's a damn good reference book and if you are minimalist...this, this is the one. Bonus points, inspired Jack Kerouac's dharma bum stage. OM Bliss, blisss, bliss
I've had this near my bed for months now. I read it all the goddamn time, especially the first bit, which is a collection of a number of the Pali texts glommed together to give a sensible presentation of the historical Buddha's actual teachings.The title irks me to no end, though.
"The Dharma which establishes the Truth of Noble Wisdom belongs to the realm of the Dharmata-Buddha" (page 355)
This book will always be on my currently reading shelf...because little pieces of it need to be read everyday
Got it to read the Diamond Sutra. Liked some of the explanatory text.
Some authors caught my eye, and some others didn't.
Excellent Dharma book.
Wonderful collection of Buddhist thought, in a concise and easy to read format. This was a favorite of Kerouac.
another book used for reference that i have not read from cover to cover.
Didn't read all
this collection of sutras hasgifted me new insights into living life and the nature of reality.
the actual words of the buddha... or supposedly.
Fantastic book to observe the roots of different kinds of Buddhism with.
Zen literature presents some fascinating philosophy, even if you're not a Buddhist.
