https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/321950.Blood_and_Guts_in_High_School
I'm giving this book one star because I can't give it half a star and because if I gave it no stars then that would imply a state of unratedness which might lead people to erroneously conclude at first glance that I loved it so much I felt there were not enough stars available or that I was too lazy or forgetful to apply any stars at all.
The ground breaking theatrically scrap book style smells of laziness not genius to me and it is hard to discern the smell of either of things beneath the even headier smell of mendacity because surely this was intended as nothing more than a practical joke?
Ten year old Janey is being buttfucked by daddy, because her cunt is red raw from VD, probably acquired from when daddy’s best friend Billy had a go.
And if I’m not staring at the great big eye of daddy’s winking willy, theres plenty of female genitalia in this gallery opening to keep me busy.Janet is quickly abandoned and sent to board in NYC, where she whores it a bit (well a lot), has an impressive number of abortions and eventually ends up as a sex slave to an eighty year old Iranian (as you do).
Poor pliant Janey just wants to be loved, but when her father dumps her at the age of 10 for a sexier girlfriend, and then ships her off to a New York boarding school, her only option, naturally, is to fall in with a street gang called the Scorpions and devote her pre-teens to a life of petty theft, random sex and multiple abortions.
Crude poetry written in scatter-shot free verse and rude drawings of his and hers genitalia pack a lot of the pages of this over-sized but slim novel.
Most of the other pages carry screenplay-formatted conversations or cartoonish depictions of pedophilia.
Using the mechanism of sexual and economic oppression, Acker is able to actualize the taboo surrounding incest by associating it with capitalism to demystify the oedipal formation of desire in the Western culture (Hawkins 646)."That's true but the fact remains that even when Janey is out of the influence of her father, she remains addicted to sex & hardly makes much of an effort to change her life.
Also the fact that Acker's female protagonist is a mere ten year old who dies by the age of fourteen doesn't really give her much of a say in how her life is run.It was really frustrating reading these lines:"...despite her high fever, she walked the streets.
I think it's becoming harder to get off the roads.Of course, there's this ebbing-and-flowing level of total high school journal mawkishness and emotionallity and raging vulnerability, but that's the point.
I wasn't surprised to find out that meeting Kathy Acker was some kind of significant event for Hanna.I won't claim to catch more than a fraction of the references here, Acker being better-read by age 30 than I, it seems, but that's just fine, this offers plenty regardless, and I'll be happy to keep this in the back of my mind as I discover the sources for years to come.Teachers teach you intricate ways of saying one thing and doing something else.
This book was released in 1978, making “post-punk feminism” an apposite description.
Not that punk had stopped in 1978 but post-punk bands were already evolving the two-chord assault of the punk sound into something better (or in the case of Howard Devoto or Jonathan Richman before punk even happened).
So this hysterical novel chimes perfectly with the nascent post-punk art explosion coming from NY in the late seventies, entwining it with this glorious period of art-school pretention and irredeemable poetry.
The novel uses typographical attack weapons (enormous fonts!
Gass’s potentially sexist typographical funhouse, Willie Masters' Lonesome Wife, perhaps?
A perverse relic: mainly dark and funny now, too hysterical to make any longstanding feminist impact.
"Compendiously Nipping Pastiche. Clearseeing."  -cunt-fuck...but for me this was evidence that some people believe feminism trumps good writing.This book is the Emperors new clothes. [sic!] sucky post-modernist writing. But it's really perverted and I felt a little violated reading it. Incest, rape, domestic violence, etc. etc. well, i'm going to give it to you anyway. We've been punked, folks.This was one of the most off-putting and obnoxious pieces of literature I've faced recently.She's jus
Yes, noted scholars, authors and critics who form the all seeing literary eye that is the 1001 books list, "Why do you hate people who read books?
[noble!]...to me like an outburst of loathing; one of those "top 10 books you've probably never read written by a woman"as post-punk porn, post-punk feminist.
My boyfriend looked over my shoulder quite a few times while I was reading and thought the pictures were "interesting."A truly awful book - 1 part The Atrocity Exhibition, ..., 3 parts crystal meth, and 7 parts blotter acid.There's no denying Acker's intelligence, but I found this to be a mess.
Seriously, what's this supposed to be? I love a good anti-novel as much as the next pretentious hipster, but don't just slap together a bunch of stuff and then bore me to death with it.
This gets five stars from me, despite its flaws, simply because of the highly impressive range of techniques on display. She draws on all the tools at her disposal in an inventive and impassioned way. Language at its crudest remains language, remains filled with meaning and with power. The speech of the abused is built from abused language, and its brokenness is its strength. On a lighter note, opening a page which contains nothing but a large drawing of a cunt while sat on a packed tube train, evoked a noticeable reaction in the commuters around me.
Mr Fuckface: You see, we own the language. Language must be used clearly and precisely to reveal our universe.Mr Blowjob: Those rebels are never clear. What they say doesn't make sense.Mr Fuckface: It even goes against all the religions to tamper with the sacred languages.Mr Blowjob: Without language the only people the rebels can kill are themselves.I CAN SCRAWL AND I CAN CRAWL I I I I I I I I I life GLOOGLOOGLOOFUCK YOU SHIT PISS
Acker's book is a challenge to any attempt to define what a novel is supposed to be, a challenge that sucked me in and dragged me around on a leash - deeper and deeper and then higher and higher, from the very first page.Text, illustration, mixed fonts, pages written in the author's handwriting; narrative paragraphs become diary excepts which turn into poems which merge into drawings which become maps, graffiti, translations of latin odes and blatant, parodic plagiarism...
1)The exoteric concept:The book opens with a dialogue that seems to be taken from a French Nouvelle Vague film: a ten (!) year old child named Janey is dumped by her father, who is also her fiancé (yep).The guy can't stand the pressure of a long-term relationship, he needs his space and Janey is preventing him from being himself.
it is the most readable kathy acker book and the only one that i liked (i think i read about five, there are more).
i read this around the time that the movie "natural born killers" came out and i think together they pulled up all my shit that i didn't know how to name.
as far as the racist stuff i kind of noted it and put it aside while i was reading, i think maybe she's trying to address racism but it feels like she's perpetuating it.
I didn't understand about Kathy Acker's fiction before I read this. Since the title was BLOOD AND GUTS IN HIGH SCHOOL, I thought it would be about high school. And would feature blood and guts. it was something totally different. I felt so frustrated I wrote my own book of BLOOD AND GUTS IN HIGH SCHOOL. But I called mine: GIRL.
At the same time she gives very real insight into the mind of a person whose character and vision have been shaped by a life of abuse and exploitation.
she has basically no inhibition whatsoever:"Right now I can speak as directly as I want 'cause no one gives a shit about writing and ideas, all anyone cares about is money."If I could find a thesis in this book (I swear I found it at some point, but may have misplaced it along the way) it would be something about the necessity of vision and the horror of a life without dreams.
Absolutely the worst book I have ever read, and I've read a lot of books.
Honestly, I have no problem with vulgar books, and I don't shy away from books with pornographic material.
It wasn't the fact that the main character in this novel was sleeping with her father.
It wasn't any of these things, although admittedly they don't make for a great story line.
I don't abandon books; once I've started a story I have to see it through to the bitter end.
I just don't see how anyone could make an argument for its inclusion on a list of books you must read before you die.
I read some Acker in college - you know, back when my hair was purple, my stereo was screaming with angry grrrl singers, and the world was just.
I liked it then.
It felt subversive and important.
In fact, it felt a whole lot like all the shit I woke up at 5pm and read that I wrote on a youthful rebellious cocaine binge when I was about 19 years old.
Bad words, sex, cunt, piss, shit, run on sentences, angst angst angst.
And I'm just not feeling it anymore.I get the deconstruction, the post-structuralism, the neo-sex-positive-feminism argument.
I always have trouble with stories like these. Unlike arthouse films which often work on using odd concepts to create an allegorical or metaphorical story, oftentimes it doesn't come out right with books, and this is one such case.
Originally written in the 1970s, this Penguin re-release coincides with Acker's untimely death from cancer 20 years ago this year.
Ever the enfant terrible, this is deliberately designed to provoke and shock - and that it still can in 2017 would, I think, have amused Acker vastly.She throws everything into this dislocated narrative: sex, violence, disease, exploitation, corruption, abuse, incest, feminism, capitalism, anger, submission, identity, the grotesque body...
For all of the ways that this intersects with critical theory, the theorisation of women's writing (think Cixous' écriture féminine, Irigaray, Kristeva) and Lacanian psychoanalysis, it's also dirty and grubby and revelling in its own gleeful rebelliousness and subversive energy.
One hard to forget cover. Some enviable title. Up there with "Prozac (too-early-in-my-life-it-was-too-late) Nation" and "Girl, Interrupted" And in the same genre. But whereas those aforementioned two were in reality self-serving bitchathons (and we must not forget which of the three were converted into feature films). "Blood & Guts" is not. Its the very sense of the word intrepid.1990s director Gregg Araki should have made the celluloid equivalent. What a pastiche of terrible teenage dreaddom! Not unlike Jeanette Winterson in her Nin-like creative journey into the sexual self.
I suspect that the critics and editors involved in recommending this trash via the "1001" list are laughing their collective asses off, knowing they've tricked yet another reader into falling for their pathetic prank.
I'd rather have read the ingredient list on my shampoo bottle than to have wasted my time on this tripe.
Actually, I could've poured the shampoo into my eyes and experienced less pain.
I'd give this book zero stars, but I'm compelled to rate it both as a warning to my fellow readers, and to do my small part to help bring down its overinflated rating.
So.Nothing to do with high school.Nope. Know of this nothing. Still not expected what. Remember Worstward Ho? Worse.Post-punk feminist porn. Said The Internet.Angry. Messy.Angry. Confusing.Angry. Clear as crystal.Definitely punk. Angry.Experimental writing? Read between the lines. No. Read every other line then read it again but only the lines that were skipped and then try to put the pieces together in your mind. Remember House of Leaves? Worse.Cocks. Lots and lots of cocks.And cunts.And painfully dated references to President Carter.So.
This happens when I read multiple works by the same author in a short period of time; I go on a spree, devouring everything I can find by a particular writer, and at some point, I'll find myself unable to tell one book from another.
It's hard to write a review of Blood and Guts in High School because a.) it's all mixed up in my mind with Acker's other stuff, and b.) I'm so far into Ackerland right now that I can't be objective about it.
So all of this is to say that I think I would have written a different review of this book had I read it before falling for the Acker Mystique.
I can see, certainly, how it would annoy some in a stylistic manner and infuriate others on a conceptual level (for example, Janey is being...raped?...by her father, but Acker presents this relationship in the terms of a dying love affair).
Jean Genet makes a wonderfully bizarre appearance, and the "letter" from Erica Jong was likewise too fucking funny to get offended by.
Like I said, not for everyone, but if you're totally fucked in the head or the funny bone, you should definitely give it a test run.
I ran into Acker via these kids I lived next door to when I was about 23.
They ate a lot of E and Acid.
I was listening a lot of Patti Smith and PJ Harvey at the time and they were like "here, Kathy Acker" and I read it and I really liked it.
You can analyze Acker's work all you want.
ok, so, do you want my honest opinion? well, i'm going to give it to you anyway. if you really, really like the following words repeated over and over and over until you can't think straight, then this book is for you:-cunt-fuckso i thought there would be more but no, that's really it. basically, it's horrific. it's worth the read if you like to torture yourself, which apparently i do. also, it was recommended as one of those "top 10 books you've probably never read written by a woman" and yeah, yeah, yeah, kathy acker's fuckin crazy.
Well this was really something. Hopelijk snel herlezen, want dit boek er in drie dagen doorheen jassen, terwijl ik ook ontelbaar veel deadlines probeer af te werken, is niet optimaal. En dat verdient dit boek niet.
what the hell did I just read
Having any sex in the world is having to have sex with capitalism. What can Janey and Genet do?
Picked this up in London last summer in a hipster book store, presumably for its NYC links, and decided to give it a go because of its page count, but this avant garde novel was just a bit too avant garde for my tastes...
I think each Kathy Acker novel I re-read I decide is her best and say so in my review.
Kathy would enjoy, I think, these contradictions.
The world so needs this dirty, wacky, brilliant little book about the fuckery and glory of being 18, horny, translating Sextus Propertius in Latin class, reading Nathaniel Hawthorn, hanging out with Jean Genet in your dreams, and feeling really fucked up and ambivalent about the growing itch between your legs.
