https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/412732.The_Dharma_Bums
But like Bob Dylan saysWhile riding on a train goin’ westI fell asleep for to take my restI dreamed a dream that made me sadConcerning myself and the first few friends I hadWith half-damp eyes I stared to the roomWhere my friends and I spent many an afternoonWhere we together weathered many a stormLaughin’ and singin’ till the early hours of the mornWith haunted hearts through the heat and coldWe never thought we could ever get oldWe thought we could sit forever in funBut our chances really was a million to oneAs easy it was to tell black from whiteIt was all that easy to tell wrong from rightAnd our choices were few and the thought never hitThat the one road we traveled would ever shatter and splitWell that was me and my pals.
Too much bum, not enough dharma.
The main characters are the narrator Ray Smith, based on Kerouac, and Japhy Ryder, based on the poet and essayist Gary Snyder, who was instrumental in Kerouac's introduction to Buddhism in the mid-1950s.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز ششم ماه فوریه سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: ولگردهای دارما؛ نویسنده: جک کروآک؛ مترجم: فرید قدمی؛ تهران، روزنه، 1392، در 312 ص، 978943344313؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 مژان-لوئی کرواک رمان نویس و شاعر آمریکایی فرانسوی تبار؛ در روز دوازدهم ماه مارس سال 1922 میلادی در لوول، ماساچوست به دنیا آمد، و در همان‌جا بزرگ شد، سپس در دانشگاه کلمبیا و در رشته ی فوتبال تحصیل کرد.
I write a lot of stuff when I'm drunk too -- it doesn't mean I would try and get it published unless I sat down and edited the fuck out of it, with a clear head one day.
After taking in "The Dharma Bums" and the fantastic introduction which was included in the edition I read, I feel a newfound respect for what Jack K did and the legacy he left behind.
If honesty was his main goal as a writer, in that respect he was definitely a success.One last thing I found cool about "The Dharma Bums" - a lot of American cultural references are derived from this novel.
The poverty/liberty of "hopping a freight", the locale firmly rooted in hippy California (Los Angeles, Santa Barbara), the laziness of contemplating the clouds: all of these are central to the narrator's character and his attitude.
He is one with the road ("we rolled north") and in a meditative mood and this feeling saturates every page of this rollicking, humorous, orgasmic Beat classic.
Just reading the phrase makes me want to throw off all the yokes of society and...ok enough of that...and on to the last one.
Think of the patience, hundreds of thousands of years just sitting there bein perfectly perfectly silent and like praying for all living creaturs in that silence and just wwaiting for us to stop all our frettin and foolin."- Jack Kerouac, The Dharma BumsI recently started going to a weekly Kadampa Buddhism and meditation class at a local Unitarian church with a friend of mine.
The last Kerouac I've read was 20 years ago, and I never read The Dharma Bums, so I figured it was a good place to start.
We were basically just kids playing at Buddhism, and sometimes it feels like Kerouac was too.
Yes, it’s “raw in thought” but spirituality flows throughout, even though the catholic faith is viewed through the eyes of (Zen) Buddhism.I have no doubt that Kerouac's own unique background, i.e. the “gene pool”, was responsible for bringing to life an individual who loved company, but who could also be more than content to spend time on his own, thinking about nature and the wonders of our planet.
Knowing though that Ray was partial to his alcohol, I wondered what “spiritual” state he was in when he was writing this.Thinking about this work brings to mind a reporter I once knew in Fleet Street, London.
In The Dharma Bums he takes the reader from city-drop-outs to mountain solitude, the mind-fuck excitement and shit of civilization to the glorious simplicity and utter loneliness of a retreat back to nature.Even though he cheats the reader with some quick-fix adverbs in place of the proper description owed his audience, Kerouac still deserves all the accolades bestowed upon him, and so every now and then when I'm in the mood I don't mind taking one of these long hikes with writers of his ilk.
The Dharma Bums is poetry, even if I do think some of it's silly nonsense.
A pure Kerouac novel, a real call to nature and freedom. Once again beautiful.Lisbon Book-Fair 2015.
Took some time to get used Kerouac's style but once you do it is an excellent read. One of my favorites, simply a joy to read and reread. My favorite Kerouac. Re-read four years later and its still one of my favorite Kerouacs.
And so I will take these feelings one by one.I was amused!Most of The Dharma Bums is written in a casual style and is simply about "Ray Smith" (Jack Kerouac) and his friends "Alvah Goldberg" (Allen Ginsberg), "Japhy Ryder" (Gary Snyder), and other lesser Beats hanging out together.
The poet Gary Snyder is both his best friend and his biggest challenger in this regard, asking him how he expects to be mindful when he's in a near-constant state of intoxication, often wondering why he spends so much time lying around drinking instead of doing things.
این ایراد هم در کل متن تکرار شده.دسته سوم، برخی لغت های عامیانه است که عملاً واژه مترادفی در زبان دیگر ندارند.
در متن (ص 17) نویسنده از این قسم واژه ها در معرفی یک عده از شخصیت ها استفاده می کند (fud و booboo) که نویسنده کمترین تلاشی برای اینها نکرده و همین لغات را به صورت فارسی (یعنی فاد و بوبو) در متن آورده که بسیار بسیار کوبنده در ذوق مخاطب است.مشکل دیگری که خیلی من را اذیت می کرد در این ترجمه، لحن ساختگی ترجمه است.
Ray thumbs his way across the continental U.S. two, almost three times.
Ray encounters everything with the peace and pensiveness of a modern monk.I read this in college for a class on Beat Literature and had to breeze through it in order to keep up with the massive reading load.
It was great the first time but I was unable to really capture the essence of the book and enjoy it to it's fullest.
I decided to read it again as a fun summer read and I finally got a chance to go at it with a highlighter.
I got my copy in Chicago for a dollarMy friends frienzied onward toward the trainI had the whole thi
آیا ما فرشتگان مطرودی نیستیم که نمیخواستیم باور کنیم که هیچ یعنی هیچ، و آنگاه به دنیا آمدیم که آنهایی را که دوستشان داریم، و دوستان عزیزمان را، یکی یکی از دست بدهیم و آخرش هم زندگی خودمان را، تا بهمان ثابت شود که هیچ یعنی هیچ؟...از متن کتاب
‎آیا ما فرشتگان مطرودی نیستیم که نمی‌خواستیم باور کنیم که هیچ یعنی هیچ، و آنگاه به دنیا آمدیم که آنهایی را که دوست‌شان داریم، و دوستان عزیزمان را، یکی یکی از دست بدهیم و آخرش هم زندگی خودمان را، تا بهمان ثابت شود که هیچ یعنی هیچ؟...‎از متن کتاب
Of course, I'm going to see where this is going, but if I have to wade through many more scenes of a bunch of poets calling eachother Bodhisattvas, I'm going be forced to set the book down on the table and look very irritated with it before resuming....And upon finishing: I know that Kerouac is widely considered one of the great poetic seekers of the last century, but I wasn't especially impressed.
Huh, I guess that in light of that I really should give On the Road a try at some point.
not for its far-reaching insights, kerouac's intimate style, or it's lively presentation of a man who was the embodiment, precursor, exemplification, and antecedent to all those to follow dubbed 'heads' or less acurately 'hippies,' but for it's depiction of a man struggling to find his path, at times the buddhist, the christian mystic, the skeptic, the empty vessel practicing za-zen, just sitting, yet ever changing, ever evaluating.
kerouac's exenstentialist struggle (and as you read the rest of the books that roughly make up the dulouz legend, which deptict his adventual failure to synthesis the sum of his experiences into one unified self) will always be the cause of my returning to this book.
He writes the pure callow self-centeredness of first discovery, not yet humbled, convinced of his singular chosenness, here to show the world how it’s really done, what’s really possible.
There’s a wildness that gradually gains harder edges as the story wears on, becomes slightly less ebullient, more tame in the way of impending bitterness, but then not at all bitter, just the slight threatening impending-ness of it, because the world is gonna change and you know it and he may or may not know it, but certainly his world is changing and nothing of course can stay the same, including good old Japhy.
It’s a natural world and in the natural world people eat and smoke and piss and get agitated for no good reason and madness must be followed by peace and peace by madness.
Except it was less backpacking, more Buddhism preaching.
He's like Holden Caulfield with a backpack turned born-again-Buddhist (there is no such thing but that's the best way to describe it!)Also, I hate to judge religion, BUT (actually I lie, I love judging religion) I am well familiar with zen Buddhism and I think his version of Buddhism is less Buddhist and more junky postmodernist (i.e. full of shit).
The only reason I gave this book 2 stars instead of one was because of the amazing descriptions of climbing and camping on mountains, especially chapter 33.
I used to claim that the beat generation represented everything I hated in literature, yet I refused to read full works of any prominent beat writers.I gotta admit, "On the Road" has got to be one of the worst novels I have ever read in my life; which is a valid statement to make, considering that the prominence of the novel was never due to flawless prose or any technical aspect that is currently relevant in our times.
کتابی خیلی دوست داشتنی.
الان که تموم شده و بهش فکر میکنم، دلم تنگ میشه براش.
علاوه بر خوب بودنش، توی موقعیتهای خیلی خوبی هم خوندمش و خریدنش هم مربوط به یک روز خیلی هیجانانگیز بود.
اما خود کتاب چرا خوبه؟ ماجراش، که ماجرای سفرهای کرواکه.
مثل رمان در راه.
اما این بار کرواک عاشق طبیعت و ذن و مراقبه و بودا شده و سبک زندگی کاملن متفاوتی رو با رمان در راه پیش گرفته.
متن ریتم پایینتری نسبت به در راه داره و به مقدار زیادی از مراقبهها و طبیعت و دیدگاهش نسبت به زندگی -که یک دیدگاه بودیستی هست- حرف میزنه.
اما این بار کرواک عاشق طبیعت و ذن و مراقبه و بودا شده و سبک زندگی کاملن متفاوتی رو با رمان در راه پیش گرفته.
متن ریتم پایین‌تری نسبت به در راه داره و به مقدار زیادی از مراقبه‌ها و طبیعت و دیدگاهش نسبت به زندگی -که‌ یک دیدگاه بودیستی هست- حرف می‌زنه.
توصیفات محشری داره و آدمو هوایی می‌کنه که بزنه بره سفر و توی طبیعت تنها باشه.
منظورم اینه که لازم نیست حتمن این چیزا رو دوست داشته باشی تا بتونی با کتاب همذات‌پنداری یا ارتباط برقرار کنی.
اکثر کلمات تخصصی بودایی رو هم ترجمه کرده بود.امیدوارم باز هم از کرواک ترجمه کنن!
It was our instructional manual on "how to be a hippie." The long, late-night drug and alcohol fueled parties, the disdain for money and suburbia and middle class life, the simple foods and hanging out on the floor.
All these scenarios and more fill the pages of The Dharma Bums in Jack Kerouac's breathless prose.
Kerouac's life was brief.
Not a man to marry, not a man to depend on in any way, Jack Kerouac had another mission on this earth and I thank him to this day for capturing both the incipient sadness and the rarely achieved joy of life.
(I've sometimes wanted to 'immortalise' 2 or 3 fascinating people I've known by writing about them, and reading this made me think it was a good thing I never really tried.)Especially near the beginning of the book, the main characters are laughably conceited for dedicated Buddhists - they're like other young American guys who, in some Brooklyn-set equivalent of recent years, might think they're going to be star novelists.
All the main Buddhist characters in The Dharma Bums are white Americans, and the book made me think about the spectrum of cultural appropriation vs cosmopolitanism.
Don't read Kerouac when you're too young.
Look back to all the people you knew, those people who went here and there, those people who knew odd patches of philosophy and poetry.
They doped and boozed in desperate self medication.
Look back at yourself.Jack travels here and there.
He knows people with Odd Knowledge.
They doped and boozed.
They had the Knowledge.Read Kerouac and look back.
And you'll know Kerouac for what he was.
The truth with a little 't'.He wanted to fool you, but he couldn't.
How he wanted it to be when he looked back on it.
They consistently praise his work to me, recommend books that I should read and even buy me his books, hoping I'll love him like they do, but try as I might I still haven't found what they find in Kerouac's work.But I do try.
I did get through The Dharma Bums, though, and I actually enjoyed the read.
I liked it, but I didn't love it, and I think I've finally pinned down why -- the characters.
I can't love it, and I don't think I can venerate him like so many others do.
When I first read it, I read it for the sex and the late night bull sessions...
had not had sex, was still living at home and had no idea who Japhy Ryder (Gary Snyder) was.
REad it more recently--now I've had sex and a million late night bull sessions, so that wasn't the thrill it had been at 16.
Now I find what I admire the most is Japhy Ryder, and especially, the liveliness of Kerouac's nature writing.
I've done a lot of hiking and backpacking, and my god Kerouac's sense of nature was so full of energy and motion, just brilliant stuff.
من عاشق فیلمای جادهای و کتابای جادهای ام؛ علیرغم اینکه زندگی خودم فرسنگها با این سبک زندگی توصیفشده فرق میکند. و شاید همین باشد دلیل این شیفتگی، که یک گریزگاه تخیلی در زندگی روزمرهی ناخوشایندم بوجود میآید با این ادبیات.ولگردهای دارما، اوقات را به خوشی میگذرانند و هر وقت که نیاز مبرم به پول پیدا کنند، یک کارِ روزمزدی انجام میدهند. به هدف اینکه از چرخهی کار-مصرفِ تحمیلشده فرار کنند. اما، اگر فرض کنیم هدف کولهگردی «رهایی» باشد، اینجور گشتنِ جهان، دیگر تو را آزاد نمیکند؛ بلکه صرفا یک شغل با درآمد کم
من عاشق فیلمای جاده‌ای و کتابای جاده‌ای ام؛ علی‌رغم این‌که زندگی خودم فرسنگ‌ها با این سبک زندگی توصیف‌شده فرق می‌کند.
اما، اگر فرض کنیم هدف کوله‌گردی «رهایی» باشد، این‌جور گشتنِ جهان، دیگر تو را آزاد نمی‌کند؛ بلکه صرفا یک شغل با درآمد کم و فرساینده‌ی بدن انتخاب کرده‌ای برای باقی زندگی.راوی کتاب، بعد از این‌که خودش شیفته‌ی کوهنوردی می‌شود، می‌رود و چند دست لباس و پوتین و کوله می‌خرد.
مقلدان کتاب (و کتاب حقیقتا هر خواننده‌ای را وسوسه می‌کند تا کوله‌گرد بشود برای باقیِ عمر!) با انجام همین خرید، عملا تن به مصرف‌گرایی می‌دهند، خرید کالاهایی که واقعا ضروری نیستند.و خب، حرف‌های بودیستی در تمام طول کتاب بیان می‌شوند.
In Kerouac's recounting Snyder comes home and tells him it was ok because everyone at the reading drank, but you can't help thinking that Snyder was simply trying not to make Kerouac feel guilty, but Kerouac's minimization at the time foreshadows their lives, Kerouac suffers a painful and bitter death from alcoholism within 10 years while Snyder continues to hike the Sierra Nevadas, teach, and write poetry 50 years later.But these foreshadowings do not detract from what is a fun and ,exhilirating read, from the description of the famous poetry reading where Kerouac shouts "Go" "Go" Go" during the readings by Ginsberg, Snyder et al, to the 3 day going away party for Snyder and to the outdoor adventures by Snyder and Kerouac, exemplified by my favorite passage that of the final ascent of California's Matterhorn.Soon he(Japhy/Snder) was a whole football field,a hundred yards, ahead of me, getting smaller.
"Then I added 'Blah,' with a little grin, because I knew that shack and that mountain would understand what that meant, and turned and went on down the trail back to this world."
The story begins with the Kerouac avatar, Ray Smith, hopping a freight train in Los Angeles on a journey to San Francisco and sharing a mutually charitable encounter with a hobo, whom he considers a “Dharma Bum” like himself:But then I really believed in the reality of charity and kindness and humility and zeal and neutral tranquility and wisdom and ecstasy, and I believed that I was an old time bhikku in modern clothes wandering the world (usually the immense triangular arc of New York to Mexico City to San Francisco) in order to turn the wheel of the True Meaning, or Dharma, and gain merit for myself as a future Buddha (Awakener) and as a future Hero in Paradise.It’s fun to experience his first encounter with Snyder, named Japhy Ryder, and experience his reading at an historic poetry reading where Alan Ginsburg (aka Alvah Goodbook) first performed “Howl” (here tagged “Wail”).
