https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/257443.So_Big
Another way this theme is expressed is that there are two types of people in life: "Emeralds and Wheat" The biggest treasure in this story, yet there are others, is Dirk's mother, Selena De Jong, who moves to a Dutch-farming community near Chicago.
As much as we wish our children to take the most inspiring roads in life, it doesn't always look as if they do.
Some people seem to need to make mistakes themselves in order to learn a life lesson- others are inspired by observing others and avoid a few more.
Her capacity to recognize the beauty even in what others would consider the most mundane of objects and people made me stop and consider whether or not I take enough time to appreciate the everyday things in my own life.
Like her father before her, Selina also wishes to instill the appreciation for the beauty in all things to her own child.
Selina has plans for Dirk, a wish for him to lead life to the fullest and experience all those things she feels she has missed out on herself.
She is as individual as a piece of artwork, and a piece of artwork is what she is, in the end.Very early in the novel we are introduced to Selina’s father, a gambler who lives sometimes at one end and sometimes at the other end of prosperity, giving her some advice about life:“I want you to see all kinds,” he would say to her.
The contrast between Selina, who lives close to the earth, and her son, Dirk, who strives not to.I loved all these fine characters, celebrated and wept with them.
In the three years I've worked in a bookstore, I've had ZERO customers ask for books by Edna Ferber.
That is going to change.I am going to start by recommending it to everyone I know (Andrew's mom is reading it next, then Andrew) and then I am going to recommend it to customers.
It is definetely interesting to think that there was so much farmland in Selina's day, where now it's all steel and traffic.
A page turner indeed, this book wasn't thought to be very literary when it was published in 1924 (although it won the Pulitzer Prize)but the language is rich and the story is wholly interesting.
A great author can also make you care about things you never thought you would, farm life in Illinois in the late 19th century being the relevant case in point.
You really get a sense of one remarkable woman’s life with this book.
Yes. All the worth-while things in life.
Books.
Feeling very strongly about things and then developing that feeling to—to make something fine come of it.” There are ironies in the way things play out, and in who may appreciate what, but those are thematic pleasures granted only to those who read this exceptional book.
I have questioned whether or not the books we have already read have been dated and relevant at their times but truthfully antiquated in language and more historical in importance.
Both philosophies are explored in the book with Selina being able to live both, but yet she cannot teach these concepts to her only son.The characters, their experiences and the timeless relevancy of this novel led to some rich and engaging discussion.
This was my second Edna Ferber novel (the first being "Giant"), and it feels like I've discovered a well-kept secret of the literary world."So Big" is a great story about a young woman who grows up in various American cities, only to be disillusioned with what life "should be" after getting married to a poor Dutch farmer and toiling in the fields.
It is our character, Ferber seems to be saying, that makes life an adventure.
What I like best about Ferber is how she writes and the women she writes about.
Alhough she faces challenges previously unknown to her, she tries to keep her dignity and view of life amidst physical, financial, and mental hardships.
We meet smart and dumm, rich and poor, beautiful and ugly, visionary and “near-sighted”, and everything in between.
All the characters - even the ones who we meet for a short time - are so well described, that we almost feel like knowing them.
I could relate some of them to people I know, and sometimes, to myself.
Ms Ferber knows the nature of people, and shows it in a wonderful way.This was my first book by Edna Ferber, and I love her work!
Selena's sentimentality in the later parts, and the Dirk progression lost a star for me.
Knowing all the Chicago land marks, and how she fictionalized South Holland and U.
But this book brought to mind so eloquently the periods I have seen where you could go from picking fields to manufacturing lines, to office, to sales or ownership, to changing careers- and often within a decade.
Chicago and Silena DeJong cored the "can do" in So Big.I enjoyed the last 20 pages in my issue that did an entire review of Edna Ferber's life and her Algonquin Round Table crew.
I loved this story of a late 19th century woman who maintained a joi de vive and love of beauty despite life’s toils and hardships. The characterizations in this novel was amazing. Ferber made these characters pulse with life. This is my first book by Ferber and I want to read much more.
Winner of the Pulitzer prize, this book was a surprise to me. Written in 1924, the themes are timeless and the wisdom and insight as appropriate now as they were then. It is beautifully written and I found myself highlighting many passages.Highly recommended!
While boarding with the Pool truck farming family, Selina developed a strong friendship with Roelf Pool (a boy a few years her junior) to whom she read and encouraged his pursuit of art.
Life has no weapons against a woman like that." Selina wanted Dirk to have "all the worth-while things in life...Rooms in candle-light.
Arguably, no amount of love will allow anyone to live someone else’s life for him or her.At the end of the novel, there was a lovely reunion between Selina and Roelf Pool who had become a famous Parisian sculptor.
I like to believe that Dirk had a chance to find his way home to his love of architecture and to things that truly matter.
I opened this novel not sure what to expect.
In addition, the novel does a wonderful job at describing Chicago in the early part of the 20th century along with smart, witty depictions of the society people who lived there.
Selina is so full of joyful optimism and her love of beauty is so deep that "life has no weapons against a woman like that." She perseveres in spite of horrible setbacks, and even though the book is a little corny, it's impossible not to be inspired by it anyway.
Selina is a wonderful character!
April 12, 2011This book is remarkably readable and current for being the Pulitzer Prize winner of 1924.
Wonderful writing, full of beauty and insight, with a heroine who faces life with a tremendous amount of strength, integrity, and wisdom.
Truly a gem of a book, definitely worth seeking out.Highly recommended.Note: I read this book in 2011 (April 12) and again in 2012 (May 16).
The first time it was a resounding 5 stars for me.
It was still a great book but I saw more of the flaws in the writing and this reading was less timely for me personally.
Interesting how this book compares with another Pulitzer Prize winner I read recently -- Tarkington's The Magnificent Ambersons.
Each is a story of the great love a mother has for her son, and each is set in the 'early' years of a fast-growing, developing American city (Chicago in this instance), yet the stories are very different from each other, as are the mothers.
The sons do have quite a bit in common, but in general the characters in So Big are not only more likable but more realistic.
Despite one or two sentimental passages that aren't my thing at all, I did enjoy Ferber's writing.
I was really excited to read this Pulitzer, but after the first 50-75 pages I thought I was just going to be working through this book.
It gilded the lily in the character of Serena, I thought--the author gave in to the temptation to make her too perfect, too beyond reproach, especially in having her take in degenerates towards the end of the book.
I thought the author also achieved some very vivid setting work using very spare prose, especially the market scene.
I think cabbages are beautiful, too. This book was frank, charming, and candid in a way that I never expect of older books, and so I am regularly surprised. So Big maintains throughout the important message of finding beauty in the mundane, and cultivating vitality even in the least expected places. It's a book about not taking things for granted, and for striving for one's beliefs, yet it's not schmaltzy. It has some of the same feel as A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, but over a span of an entire life, not just a childhood. And also, I love cabbages.
Overall it was a good book. The writing was okay but for me the story seemed chopped up and rushed in spots. Initially I compared Edna Ferber's writing style to Willa Cather but for me, I believe Willa Cather spins a much better story.
Winner of a Pulitzer Prize in 1925, this novel is still well worth reading almost 100 years later.
Author Edna Ferber’s prose is a delight to read.
There is a good balance between narrative and dialogue; the story moves along at a comfortable pace, never boring, never frantic.
If you are looking for a story that will draw you into the suffering and emotional upheaval of the characters, then you ought to look elsewhere.
The characters face their own challenges in life but the reader is most definitely a spectator.
While I've heard of Edna Ferber, I can't believe a teacher or another authority on American literature didn't require me to read this book.
So Big, Ferber's 1924 Pulitzer-prize-winning novel is on par with other great American novels by authors such as Mark Twain, F.
However, like with Mark Twain, this book should be judged in the context of its time.
That she represents the early 1900s so well is indeed all the more reason to read Ferber's fascinating observations about rural-to-urban Chicago neighborhoods in the early 1900s.With So Big, Ferber belongs in the American pantheon.
I'm going to say right off that I wasn't in the mood for this book.
Anyway, the theme is compelling, and I didn't have any difficulty reading through the whole book, so I'd say that is a result of clearly excellent writing.
If you're interested in a story about an American woman looking for beauty and worth in life in spite of very bleak conditions, you might well enjoy "So Big".
For me, the second part of the book when things began to look up for Selina the plot lost intensity for me.
I loved this book. Perhaps it was because it was set in areas familiar to me--South Holland and Chicago, Illinois. Perhaps it was because of the mother who struggled to make a better life for her child as my mother did. Perhaps it was because the period of history it depicts (preWWI) is one I have been intensely interested in. Whatever the reason, I found the story deeply satisfying.
Engaging story about the life of Selina Peake DeJong; a woman who gathers a bountiful harvest of beauty throughout her years as a farmer. Full review to follow.
Selina marries a farmer, has a son (Dirk), and then becomes a successful farmer and businesswoman in her own right.
The novel ends with an incredibly poignant scene where Dirk grapples with his life choices.
So Big explores such weighty themes as:-the importance of beauty and meaning-the tension between parents and children over life decisions -the impact of grinding poverty and the amazing toil required to run a vegetable farm at this time in history-the role of women-marriage relationships-nonconformists in societyAt times the book is reminiscent of Willa Cather, with the descriptions of farming and the development of the country.
Ended too soon, as with most things that grow on us and take our keen interest. The time-frame is different, but human nature remains the same, especially through the eyes of one who's become adept at exploring the character with keen insight and the artistic wherewithal to draw the soul in print. So Big is a wonderful character study... finely portrayed.
Taking to the truck farming area of High Prairie, she briefly serves as the very young school marm (becoming instantly famous the first day, for admiring the beauty of cabbages in the field) and then, marrying a good-natured but stolid Dutch farmer, is quickly widowed (sensing a theme here) but not before having a son.The son grows up to be rich trading bonds in Chicago, but that life has no appeal to his mother, who is content with her small mud-besplattered farm.
Life has no weapons against a woman like that.

She carries guilt over this because a part of her knows it...this is never resolved in the novel just as it cannot be in life.I also question the narrative's assumptions that innovation and a sense of beauty come from outsiders, that anyone desiring more than survival via the truck farming methods passed down through generations demands running away the way Roelf Pool does.
Oh, to think there was a “real” Selina makes this story even more beautiful than it already is.The name of this novel, So Big, is the nickname of Dirk DeJong given by his mother Selina Peake DeJong when he was very young.
And, Selina says, “So-o-o-o big!”The author, Edna Ferber, takes you through a journey of Selina’s life that you will not soon forget.
When he was in luck, they lived royally, beautiful hotels, the best foods, and the theatre – he loved the theatre and took Selina to experience plays.
