https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132153.The_Sayings_of_the_Desert_Fathers
I own this book and return to it frequently.
Wonderful collection of the sayings of the Desert Fathers (and Mothers). The 'Sayings' are arranged topically. The material included in this volume include parables, stories, legends, wise sayings, dialogues and visions. The diversity of the material is matched only by the diversity of the desert monks themselves. Some of them are cranky and legalistic people. Others are graceful but strange, and some are friendly and hospitable. There is a lot in this volume that is thought provoking about the life of prayer. I think if you read it, you would definitely find something to enjoy about these strange saints.
Interesting account of ancient Hellenic-Egyptian monks attempting to live in strict accordance with the Gospel. While reading it, one can have the curious feeling of being alternately (or often simultaneously) damned and comforted.
Reading a book about the impacts of loneliness got me to thinking about this fascinating text, which I last read close to twenty years ago.
These sayings come to us from a period of semi-solitary desert monasticism, as human beings pursuing God inflicted not just hunger and privation upon themselves, but also and often a deeply sustained isolation.So I re-read it, and it was...hmm.
I still find these little snippets of their lives and teachings simultaneously wise and spiritually potent and more than a little bit insane.
Not that those three things don't work together.
In fact, I'd say they kind of have to.Interesting and peculiarly helpful to the soul.
This is an amazing look at desert monastic tradition in the early Christian empire. There's not only a wealth of strangeness, from holy dwarfs to questionable miracles, there's a real sense of the proto-Islamic culture that springs up from this region, taking the Hellenization and applying it in a harsh environment on Rome's Eastern reaches.
This is the best collection of the sayings of the early church writers from the desert. I commend it highly as a way to get to the sources quickly.
For example, although one cannot trace the ascetic life of these mostly Egyptian mostly men (although there are some women as well) to anything praised in the Bible, there appears to have been a desire on the part of some Hellenistic believers to separate themselves from the world and its pressures and difficulties, and as these people were among the first to do it and their thoughts and stories were written down, the resulting text has served as an inspiration to the transplanted monastic principles and ways of Orthodox and Catholic spirituality.
The Apophthegmata Patrum, or Sayings of the Fathers, is a text believed to originate around the 5th century AD, which contains a large collection of quotes attributed to the Desert Fathers, frequently those who lived in Scetis.
Even the identities of some Desert Fathers in this text are uncertain, though Ward often helpfully sums up the lives for some of the more famous ones.
The fact that this version derives from a 12th century manuscript only makes the sources of these statements even more dubious as it would be easy with this type of text for later copyists to simply add to or edit them.
Amazing book full of inspirational figures whose sayings, short but powerful, really develop them all into distinctive characters. Spiritually fulfilling and deeply humbling. Recommend to anyone and everyone, especially if your mind is troubled or your heart has been worn down by the world. Arsenius is the man!
I don't consider this a "beginner" book. Unless you are a monk, clergy or scholar I would not start with this. This read to me the way I get poetry: Some are really clear and make sense and others are generate more questions than answers.
Adeline gave this to me. I began to grow up spiritually
True to form translation of the oft-forgotten legacy of ascetic monasticism and the writings that came from them.
Thought provoking and memorable. I find myself returning to this book again and again.
Nearly every father stressed that if a monk saw themselves as being above anyone in life, practice, or piety, they had already lost.
Indeed, the Fathers seem to vindicate that which their spiritual ancestors affirm: a monk's true purpose in fleeing to solitude is not to hide from the world, but to be in contention for it; they lose everything in order to pray for those who cannot accept such a life.
We have the Desert Fathers and Mothers to thank for developing Christian monasticism, which saw the Faith through incredibly difficult times, and indeed kept it afloat in the so-called Dark Ages.
The book is cherished deeply within my soul despite the fact that I abhor the Christian ascetic life.
For someone interested in mysticism and the worldviews of those who adopt the ascetic life, this book only strengthened that interest and I am thankful for coming across it.
The conversations in the book generally highlight the importance of fasting, prayer, patience, commitment and humility being a center virtue.I highly recommend this book to those studying Christianity or delving into mysticism.
The virtues we learn we need to put into practice, and the desert fathers did nothing but practice ascetic Christianity at its finest form after the main Church doctrines and dogma were regarded as truthful.
The Sayings of the Desert Fathers: The Alphabetical Collectionby Ward, BenedictaThis is a marvelous collection.
I’ve read smaller collections from the desert, “best-of” compilations compared to this.
That’s what I was after — to read as much as I could find from the desert voices.
What I would like to see next is a collection of these sayings that is put together not alphabetically but chronologically, as best we know.
I could trace some chronological development through the book as I remembered who lived when.
I would like to see how desert monasticism developed and changed.
They were saying themselves that something changed.
One of them actually questions transubstantiation but fortunately for his soul an angel comes down and sets him straight.
The book actually deals with racism a bit.
One of the desert fathers is black and several times other monks decide to test him by hurling racist insults.
He apparently passes the test by bearing it quietly.This is my favorite selection:"Blessed Archbishop Theophilus, accompanied by amagistrate, came one day to find Abba Arsenius.
Hequestioned the old man, to hear a word from him.
After ashort silence the old man answered him ‘Will you put intopractice what I say to you?' They promised him this.
This comprehensive collection of the Apothegmata (sayings) of the early Christian Desert Fathers and Mothers was translated and edited by Benedicta Ward, an Anglican nun who lives in Oxford (and reads there occasionally in Christian spirituality and the history of Christianity).
She is a well-recognized giant in the field of the study and exploration of early Christian monasticism and its texts, and this book reveals why: it is easily readable and accessible, all while retaining the dense, challenging, beautiful, and sometimes uncomfortable sayings of these blunt, deeply loving Christian monks.
I read this book through a time of mourning.
I just wanted to read a piece that would edify me.
This book is a collection of sayings by this group of priests in the desert who practice solitude.
Its a difficult way of life, but much easier than living 'in the world.' Many of these sayings are simple, soul stirring and challenging.
The incidences and examples are so vivid and practical.
The two that arrest me, are the need for prayer, Jesus's flesh and blood in the chalice, the dead corpse made to speak and the answer that it's not our job to understand the mind of God. Some of these are very deep thoughts, for contemplation.
Fantastic book.
Very sad to see how far he church of the 4th and 5th century in Africa had fallen into asceticism and other folly. These 250 pages of sayings are organized alphabetically (Greek) by the abba or amma which didn't provide much sense of development over time or by region. The preface, forward, prologue, and chronology are helpful for understanding the historical setting of this aberrant chapter in church history, but to use the sayings themselves as any sort of guide to theology or Christian living would be a grave mistake.
This is a collection of sayings from the early monastics who lived in wilderness cells and monasteries. In these sayings you'll discover which central practices and virtues were cultivated among these spiritual seekers. Humility stands out among the primary virtues which cannot even be thought a virtue lest it undermine its purpose. Simplicity and scarcity are also practices that are embraced along with silence and solitude.
I greatly enjoy this book. I some ways it is like the Philokalia, in that the sayings are meant for specific individuals and specific situations. The Sayings of the Desert Fathers are not generally applicable, which makes it a bit tricky to apply the sayings to a specific situation. That is why is is always useful to consult with a spiritual elder before putting into practice the things spoken of by the Desert Fathers. Not for everyone is the white martyrdom of the monastic.
Amazingly hardcore! These guys were either incredibly holy or borderline mentally ill/obsessive - or both. Regardless, this book is packed full of fantastic Christian insight gleaned by people living in a hostile wilderness and meditating for pretty much their whole lives. I love the nun who ives by the river yet never looks at it and the monk who won't look up at the roof of the church 'lest their mind be distracted from God'! A brilliant read.
Man, this is good........Tons of wisdom, some funky stories, and some things that I'm not sure about.These sayings have to be read as parables and teaching points. It's not worth it or necessary to figure out what happened or didn't. It's just a compilation of real-world wisdom and lessons that have helped people, primarily monks and nuns, live a Christ-centered life for the past seventeen centuries.
Brilliant. Staggering. Nothing I read in Pastoral Care class was half a useful as knowing the right story from the desert fathers. This book captures (with some historical redaction) the experiences and teachings of the first Christian monks in the Egyptian desert in the 4th century. The extremity of their devotion, and the wisdom it produced, is an endless marvel. I keep a stock of this book on hand to give as gifts, especially to ministers. It certainly repays re-reading.
I highly admire the desert fathers and their incredible strength in serving the Lord, but the theology is so astoundingly wrong most of the time that it makes it hard to get through this work. There are many interesting things to be found in this collection, but Scriptural doctrine is not included.
A collection of sayings and stories attributed to the early desert "fathers," those proto-monastics who went into the desert outside Egypt. An eclectic, and at times enigmatic, collection, these short passages are often inspiring and illuminating, and sometimes outright strange. But taken together, they give a compelling view of the spirituality of these early Christians...
The desert fathers are a puzzle and a paradox. Spend a little time in their company and you'll be throttled by grace--the strange, unmanageable mystery of a life focused into a white-hot point of recollectedness, the simplicity of willing one thing. Their pithy distillations of spiritual experience burn the throat but warm the belly, like a stiff whiskey. Enjoy with moderation.
A wonderful collection of the sayings of the Desert Fathers. This is high spiritual nourishment form the Christian East! Can't recommend it high enough. "Whatever good work a man undertakes, if he perseveres in it, he will attain rest. But prayer is warfare to the last breath." - Abba Agathon
Best of the early Christian writings. As far as I'm concern these should be in the canon. Mandatory for anyone even remotely interested in the early church, monasticism, as well as those who want to mature their faith.
