https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90312.Collected_Short_Stories
This collection, like his previous, includes tales about Brits in the South Sea colonies, plus a few set on the continent and Latin America.
Maugham's gift in this book is arranging modern and antique sensibilities side by side, like knickknacks on the mantel, and allowing his reader-guests to observe them without his needing to comment.
While the stories set in London are perhaps the most wryly and wittily observant of human nature, it's those set in the colonies that allow Maugham to create such memorable and beautiful settings, like a literary Gaugin.
However, I would recommend only three of my three favorites: 1) The vessel of wrath, 2) The door of opportunity, and, 3) the treasure.
In fact, ‘The vessel of wrath’ is the first story whereas ‘The door of opportunity’ is the last one but each has revealed formidable feminine will of iron worth respect and admiration.
Moreover, ‘The treasure’ amusingly suggests feminine power professionally managed by a cool, middle-aged palourmaid named Pritchard till this story simply starts and ends with nearly the same sentences, that is, “Richard Harenger was a happy man.” (p.
“Richard Harenger was a very happy man.” (p.
He admitted he'd never read Bondage, Cakes & Ale, Razor.
Today, only philistines snub MOM.
I would urgeGRs to read the review of this vol by AlexanderArsov."The Alien Corn" is a minor masterpiece.
A youngBrit scorns family and pursues a career as a pianist.Told by a famous talent he will only be 2d-rate, hekills himself.
(His family left him no choice.)Question : if our arts did not have 2d and 3d ratetalents, would we have any "art" at all?
Not likely.This goes for yesterday and today.MOM knew too much and felt too much.
It is time tostop the MOM bashing.
ENGLISH: 24 short stories by Maugham. The story I liked most was "The vessel of wrath," much better but in the same line as "Rain," followed by "The verger," "The dream" and The creative impulse." ESPAÑOL: 24 cuentos de Maugham. El que más me gustó fue "La vasija de la ira", que me parece mucho mejor que "Lluvia", aunque escrita en la misma línea. Después me han gustado "El ujier", "El sueño" y "El impulso creativo".
The characters often wrestle with moral decisions (adultery, re-marriage, unplanned/ or even unwanted children, alcoholism).Though many more qualified reviewers have said it before, it bears repeating: Maugham is a master.
I found each story I was able to read completely engrossing (sadly, I'm not able to finish this 400+ page collection before returning it to the library).
Beyond Maugham's storytelling mastery I also enjoyed how much about the time period I learned through his tales.
He placed his characters and their stories in a certain time period under certain circumstances and cultural norms.
It is about; reading and writing, work and idleness, youth and age, arrogance and tolerance and all that in no more than four pages.Pages with beautiful sentences like '… I had not half the time I needed to do half the things I wanted …'An active writer in need of a rest meets a bum '… I have never seen such a wreck of humanity …' Someone he knew more than twenty years ago.
The story offers just enough, the rest is for us to write, the motives and the reasons even a sequel.
Разказът „Съкровището“ ми е фаворит :)
The protagonist is called to interpret a letter from the young man in Malaya who has now returned, and informed that he is responsible for the love that the young man and the not so young wife (now widow) fell into since he introduced them.
"Virtue be damned" informs her the protagonist, since it had caused so much grief and a death of a loving husband - if only the wife had quietly had had her affair and finished it the man would still be alive.
The protagonist is called to interpret a letter from the young man in Malaya who has now returned, and informed that he is responsible for the love that the young man and the not so young wife (now widow) fell into since he introduced them.
"Virtue be damned" informs her the protagonist, since it had caused so much grief and a death of a loving husband - if only the wife had quietly had had her affair and finished it the man would still be alive.
I've determined to read all of Maugham's short stories because I love them, however, I may now need to take a break from his style so I can appreciate him more later.
I love his settings and characters, though when reading one story and another after another, you tend to see his repeating phrases when he describes someone physically (how many times have I read "She must have been a great beauty when she was younger", 7 times?
I love him, I can't wait to read his last volumes of short stories, but I do need a break now.
Did not finish.
I haven't read Somerset Maugham before and after reading four or five short stories, I never want to read his work again.Somerset Maugham has nothing kind or positive to say about humanity; his short stories present isolation, misery, cruelty and hopelessness without balance or meaning.
The stories which I read deal entirely with the misfortunes of characters beyond any chance of redemption or hope of finding life fulfilment.Having understood him to be a famous and thus relatively skilful writer, I was sharply disappointed.
His depressing stories left a bad taste in my mouth.However, if anyone can recommend a story or novel of his worth reading, I'm open to having my mind changed - in part.
Have always loved Maugham's observation of human nature. I'm surprised how relevant these stories are even a hundred years later.
After finishing this, Maugham has become one of my favorite writers. This is the best short-story collection I've read.
He builds worlds that are absorbing, entertaining, devastating, and memorable. Highly recommended.
Men condone their stupidity and this proves fatal for them in most cases (The Human Element).The third facet is extremely appealing and unknown to me.
This left me at the beginning with a certain uneasy feeling I have to admit.As for rash,conceited men that take everything for granted Maugham provides humorous epiphanys very much in the vein of a Chekhov (The Colonel's lady)or of a Roald Dahl in "Tales of the Unexpected" (The Round Dozen).Although predictable enough in their midpoint, Maugham proves to be really good at spinning yarns and pleasantly witty.
He makes the reader giggle plenty of times although the story's outcome is obvious enough (The round dozen) to name one.
Reading any of Maughan's short stories is like traveling to another time and place.
This story has a very amusing ending.
Other of the stories have a sad or a very surprising ending and always a different look at life.The setting of the stories is all over the world, a French penal colony, a south sea island,China,London and even the USA.
Maughan did much traveling and wrote his novels and short stories all over the world.
"The 'I' who writes is just as much a character in the story as the other person with whom it is concerned.He may be the hero or he may be an onlooker or a confidant.
The writer who uses this device is writing fiction and he makes the 'I' of his story a little quicker on the uptake, a little more ingenious, a little wittier, a little wiser than he, the writer.
She must remember that the author is not drawing a faithful portrait of himself, but creating a character for the particular purposes of his story".Love and Light !
I read this one long time back. The table of contents mentioned by one of the readers struck within me a chord of familiarity. It was a resonation that went deep. It would have been so; when i had read this one, it was a complete treat for the heart. I had devoured it thoroughly.Coming across this one, I feel like going through it again.This book had generated in me the love for literature.Lovely! :)
I'd like to believe that Maugham is critical of the colonial culture he describes, but it's hard to be sure. At any rate, his storytelling mastery is fairly effortless here but frequently too much so-- the stories in this volume get a little too formulaic in a way that the stories in the first volume never seemed to (except the absurd WWII propaganda story). Yet comforting in some weird way, like listening to old radio-dramas or something.
With the setting shifting from Malay, China and Britain, the stories in this collection just reiterate the reasons for Maugham's greatness. Wonder if there's a more sharper and sympathetic oberver of men and women who end up on the wrong side of social norms.
Intoxicating stories! But he must be a bit of a misogynist. Most of his women characters start off as infallible and unbendingly moral. Which makes the impending train wreck he has in store for them all the more interesting.
Fantastic - each well crafted story is like a ticket to travel to places not only distant in location but also in time!
Read about 3/4 of the shorts
More fine stories. I love Maugham.
I really enjoyed these short stories, all of which had an acute focus on character development. His characters are unique and original, with their personalities driving the plots. Highly recommended.
Almost as good as the first collection. A bit more sober and less light hearted.
The policeman's words in the end of Footprints in the Jungle left me puzzled. Can anyone explain why？？？
