https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85958.The_Indwelling
You came into it with more questions than the other books, such as where was Hattie, will their safe house finally be discovered (because, let's face it, it was a bit too obvious for me), and how long could the believers actually keep working for the GC without getting caught?
I was surprised at who really killed Carpathia and I found the character development even more profound in this one than others: Rayford had to face why he wanted to be the one to kill Carpathia, Chaim's reluctance against Carpathia without being a believer, Chloe's fear and plan of keeping her baby from the enemy, how Albie will fit it.
Each trial and tribulation is proving to test our group members in different ways forcing them to search for a strength they don’t know if they have.
Leaving both Leah and Buck stranded in different parts of the world, he goes rogue and purchases a gun on the black market.
Trying to make sense of all that is being played out on national television about the murder of Carpathia and Rayford being the accused, Chloe comes to a very difficult decision.
The time is coming where the believers are going to be forced into hiding because they will require a mark to make purchases in the GC.
There's an old joke about St Paul leading the newly deceased through heaven and as they stop at each door, you can hear a party going on inside.
"That's the Methodists," he'd explain.
Or, "That's the Episcopalians." Finally, he came to a door that was really quiet.
Inside were people praying.
"Shh," he said, "That's the Fundamentalist Christians.
They think they're the only ones here." THAT'S what this series of books reminds me of.
I DON'T believe there is only one and true way to God, and to heaven, but I am interested in the author's interpretation of Revelation.
The seventh and last nail in the coffin of my youthful premillenialism. I can't imagine now why I slogged through seven of these contrivances, but that was a long time ago. Bad writing doesn't fix bad eschatology. But it sometimes reveals it.
I understand that due to logistics, one camp can't know what the other is doing or else they would die, but he is now obviously way in over his head, trying to incorporate technical jargon that strains that disbelief to its breaking point.
Apparently Jenkins assumes the rest of us are too stupid or complete ludites that we wouldn't have the foggiest clue what a database is, or that in this particular context, that statement is the dumbest thing that could've come from the man's fingertips.It annoys me when ANY author, Christian or otherwise, assumes ignorance or stupidity on the part of the reader, and Jenkins is apparently of that camp.
3.5/5I started off uneasy about this book. It triggered me to get my Bible out and investigate with my mom what Revelation says about the Antichrist and his death. The twist sure was tricky! I am more than interested to pick up the next book now!
This was fun.
This was the seventh installment to the Left Behind Series and by far the most intense. A very intense book that will keep you reading until the very end.ProsIntenseSuspenseClift hangersEasy to readyCharacter and plot interactionsConsA few slow spots
I wanted to look like this one. After all, it had exciting elements - the mystery of who killed the Antichrist, the exposure of the safe house, more well-known characters coming to faith, heavenly visions & Satan himself coming to dwell in Carpathia the Antichrist. But this book fell a bit flat for me. The writing's often slow & the characters quite bland (Chloe in particular is getting on my nerves)But the book isn't terrible & has some thought provoking points.
What I didn't know when I bought it that though it fell under a category I usually read (fantasy, sci-fi, etc...
I did take several world religion classes in college and though I found them interesting I never believed in them as more than, although not always good, interesting stories nonetheless.
So, do I like the series?
Like I said I'm not a religious person, so I have no interest in people devoting their entire being, body and soul, to the big G.If it was a little less godly and more sci-fi I would have given the books in the later series 3 stars, but I got tired of feeling like I was getting brow beaten into believing in JC and God...or else.
I dislike that the author felt it was necessary, for whatever reason, to totally change Rayford's character but I'm glad to see that he is back to his normal self so he's a believable character again.
The story moves forward at a good pace in this book and I was pretty much glued to it ever time I picked it up, only stopping when I had to.
The main characters often meet other believers for a brief period of time and then these characters often die soon after.
What I am developing a problem with is that none of the main characters die.
A lot of talking.(view spoiler)[I do enjoy how Leah and, now, Albie have been giving Rayford whatfor with his attitude and the way he has treated them.
It is great!Albie rips Rayford a new one after Ablie saves Rayford's grandson and Tsion Ben-Judah from some GC soldiers.
(view spoiler)[The Tribulation Force has to find a new hideout because they are concerned Hattie will surrender their HQ once the GC captures her.
hahahah (hide spoiler)]It was a crazy book, mostly because the Tribulation Force was trying to find missing members, reconnect, and gather back together at a centralized location.

After getting wrapped up in the characters and feeling the need to find out what happens to them was the only reason I continued to read all the books in the series.
The authors definately knew how to draw someone in and keep it just entertaining enough for them not to put it down and never think of it again - barely.
I read the series for it's fiction appeal, not the biblical meanings, so was a bit disappointed in the writings.
But, they sure knew how to sell books, which seems to be part of the reason there are so many.
Borrowed from Commerce Public Library.I gave this fewer stars because I found too many inconsistencies in it from the other books. I noticed that a little in the last couple of books, but it wasn't too bad. This one just has too many continuity errors, factual errors, plot holes, unexplained things that should be explained, and characters talking and acting out of character. I even double-checked to make sure it was written by the same guys! I hope the other books improve because I would like to get to the end of this series. I'm still enjoying the story.
Every book in this series is very interesting and I am really learning a lot. In my daily bible reading I come across passages about the end times, and now I understand them. I like the characters in the book, especially the ones that are close to the antichrist. In this book the antichrist dies and the characters in the book try to figure out how exactly he died. Also the statue of carpathia is made . I enjoy the suspense and great storytelling while keeping to the facts the bible reveals.
What this book portrays is not nearly as scary as when it actually happens as the book of Revelation reveals. The Antichrist will someday be indwelled by Satan and this will mark the beginning of the Great Tribulation. It is important to realise this is a work of fiction that probably doesn't do justice to what will actually happen but it is still a good attempt to give a glimpse of this terrifying time that is to come.
I found myself enjoying the character Chaim Rozenzweig in this one. I still find the characters one-dimensional and pretty shallow in their relationships. I especially dislike Rayford, Chloe, Hattie and Leah. So why did I keep reading? Simply because the interpretation of prophecy by these authors is so interesting and compelling.
bad dialogue. very slow plot progression. Signs of racism and bigotry.
Saying that I don’t know how I would have written it but I just thought it was kind of anti-climactic I think is the word I’m looking for here.
Saying that I don’t know how it will really happen but I don’t think we’ll be able to make it up.
It’s a good fictional start I don’t know that I would have thought of half of the things that happen in these books.
I think if you really don’t know the Bible you won’t get half of that sarcasm or I don’t want to say joke but half of the hints that are in this book interesting the bringing in encounters with angels.
I find I just seem to soar right through each book of this series because I haven't been able to put it down!
I understanding not wanting your child to die at the hands of the GC, but I'm not sure she's fighting for him the right way either.And where will this end with Hattie?
She's in hiding as much as The Tribulation Force (supposedly) so where's her inside information coming from?After 7 books, I'm shocked it only bring us to the half way point of the Tribulation.
The witty banter evidences the authors having some fun and just in time to save the Left Behind series from becoming a chore.
The action takes a back burner, although there is still one memorable set piece, and the focus is twofold.
Initially there is still the big reveal regarding the Assassination from the last book and in the other two thirds there is the set-up and execution of the Indwelling - the transference of Satan.
There are still some characters with too much seemingly redundant narrative, building them up for future parts, however considering there is no big finale the authors have produced a decent mid-series book.
Starting this review is well, easy to say the least.
I started reading the first book in this wonderful series just as soon as I heard about them.
Being from a christian home life growing up and as well as my husband and family this was a no brainier.
I am going to do one review including the whole series.
From the first page of the first book to the last page in the last book, I was not able to put these books down.
This series, although some would call fictional, I believe are very close to what will:To read more of my review: https://breathoflifebookreviews.blogs...
I continued reading because I wanted to find out who actually took out Carpathia.
I wouldn't necessarily call any of the action in this heart-stopping, particularly since it's similar to all the previous books.
I did enjoy how Carpathia's resurrection was handled, very creepy and sinister.
Mostly, I loved the parts that featured David Hassid.On the downside, this one had its moments, but got rather dialog heavy.
My son actually stopped reading the series with this one.
Overall, I enjoyed it, but I could totally see what my son was talking about.
Christian readers will likely enjoy this story, but even they might find it a bit longwinded in parts.
The book starts off right after the assassination.
We see many deaths of both loved and hated characters.
We see a few brief moments of goodness as several members come to believe in Christ.
The flow of the book is mainly fast paced as the events of this book cover a period of only three days.
Lots of detail and intrigue.
I find myself as I am reading the series from beginning to end, that the writing is becoming better and better with each book.
Also, the development of some characters has also gotten better.
Yes!!! This book couldn't have come at a better time. I was getting bored and wondering if I could actually make it to the end of this series. If you ended book six and gave it a generous two star rating like I did, don't stop with that one! This book is a real step up from the previous books. The suspense was great and there was actually action. Usually it's just really long pages of nothing that waste space until the action happens, but here was actual action! I can't wait to pick up the next book tomorrow!
We move along through the Tribulation Times, when the abomination of desolation (surely one of literature's great phrases of all time) is set up in the rebuilt Temple and the antichrist is assassinated - which does not work out as well as one might expect. This series remains thrilling and gripping and a reminder that despite the current world situation 1) God has it and 2) things could be MUCH MUCH worse! And they will be.
1) The writing and grammar are terrible. 2) There was no need for this book. All of this could be summed up in a chapter or two. 3) The only reason I was able to finish was due to it being an audio book. I also read some chapters during lunch. I just powered through my tears. 4) I am literally just reading these to find out about the characters. Also, I am seven books in. I can't bail out now.
This is book seven of the Left Behind series. The Tribulation Force faces serious challenges. The world mourns the loss of the Antichrist, who has been assassinated. Some of the members of the force are murder suspects.
The drama continues through the tribulation. This book end the first half, and prepares the reader for the Great Tribulation. Keep in mind this is a fictional rendition of the authors perception of what they think the tribulation period might look like.
