https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/389341.The_Campaigns_of_Napoleon
Chandler's Part III (of seventeen) providing an overview of Napoleon's "art of war," along with information about the armaments and military organization of the period, is excellent and establishes the interpretive framework needed to appreciate and evaluate the actions of Napoleon, his marshals (not including me), and those who opposed him.Napoleon comes across in this book as a man with an amazing head for organizational detail, an enormous capacity for tireless effort, and singleminded devotion to his own ability--and his alone.
This would-be member of Napoleon's marshalate advises against them as being strategic non-starters, unless you just want to break stuff.
Though nearly a half-century has passed since its initial publication, David Chandler's study of Napoleon Bonaparte's military campaigns remains unsurpassed -- and after reading it, it is easy to see why.
Over the course of a thousand pages, Chandler charts Napoleon's military career, from his early years at the École Militaire to his final defeat in the Hundred Days campaign.
While the campaigns themselves dominate the text, Chandler also analyses the armies involved, describing their organization, their weaponry, and their reputation on the battlefield.
I've always known Napoleon to be one of the great titans of military history; you can't say his name without reactions from both sides of those who have read about him. Chandler does the impossible; he writes a book so well about the mad genius of Napoleon on the battlefield I felt myself swept up in the great elan (a word that comes up throughout the entire tome) and it made me really appreciate the complications of total war. not gonna lie though this book was a beast to read. but I loved it!
Una maravilla, a pesar de sus lógicas limitaciones.
Es cierto que hay muchos detalles que no están presentes, incluso a mi parecer algunos muy importantes pero es sin duda uno de los mejores y más completos libros sobre las batallas que libró como general, cónsul y más tarde emperador.Todas las campañas están explicadas en orden cronológico estricto y al detalle sobre las causas políticas, movimientos previos, preparación y el desarrollo de las mismas batallas, para lo cual Chandler hace uso de cartas personales, memorias, muchos documentos testimoniales de la época tanto de cabos, oficiales, mariscales o del propio Napoleón, lo que hace que la lectura sea muy amena, entretenida y realista.
If you are only going to buy 1 book about Napoleonic Warfare, get this. It costs a small fortune, but it's a beautiful book complete with detailed maps and accountings of all of Napoleon's many battles. It may be more than you are looking for, but this is as complete as a single volume history can get. Recommended.
Good god. It's like reading an 1100 page transcript of a game of Risk. I did not read this with great élan....(more detailed review when I have time.)
I am generally a pacifist, idealistically, but somehow, perhaps through the so-called male "war gene," I find military history, when it is insightfully well written, fascinating.
This is not a book for the faint-hearted and I would not recommend it for those whose interest do not lie in the direction generalized above, but I love this book and find it highly enjoyable reading.
I will finish this fine tome and give it the attention it deserves another time.
There was about twenty years between my first and second foray into Chandler's "The Campaigns of Napoleon." If my curiosity of the Napoleonic wars is piqued again, I will return to finish off the tome.
Is there a 19 star option? This is the third time I have read this book, and I will continue to go back to it. Chandler's brilliance in making Napoleon human is unmatched in the countless other books I have read on the subject. There really is no reason to hate this book, even if you hate Napoleon. Theme of the book? "There is too much Napoleon in Napoleon."
One of those epochal works that becomes a game changer in its field. I know of few history writers specializing in Napoleon that don't reference this book at some point.
If you lack knowledge of The Napoleanic Wars and don't mind spending a good chunk of money to rectify that problem then this is the book to get.
Chandler does an amazing job of describing both Napoleon and his campaigns.
The focus is obviously on the French but the opposing side is described and analysed in each campaign to give a better picture of what Napoleon did or didn't accomplish and how.
In depth looks at strategy and to a lesser extent tactics make this book a must read for anyone interested in the subject.
A comprehensive and balanced look at the military training and career of Napoleon. It does look at some of his political activities but ties these very much to his military aims.Well worth the read.
A good read. Details about all of Napoleon's battles. Just enough of the politics that the battles are set in a historic context. This is a must read if you want to understand the Napoleonic era.
But the grand strategy and high politics of the Napoleonic Wars are fairly easy to understand, so even if you can't follow the battles, this book is worth it just for the grand strategy.Napoleon was surely a genius.
The chapters on his Art of War, the major victories at Jena, Ulm, and Austerlitz, and on his invasion of Russia are some of the best in history.However, despite his genius, Napoleon must be judged on the results of his actions.
Because Napoleon, Mars incarnate, lusted after conquest, after the glory of victory in the battlefield.
It has been overhyped and overrated, and is in actuality not as good as one might expect from all the positive reviews.The quality of the writing is actually quite below par, Chandler is boring to read and the text simply does not flow at times.
It is a boring and a dull read.I give that it is a great reference on Napoleon's campaigns, a lot of information is in the book that you'll go back to.
The book is simply overrated in general.
Much like some of Napoleon's best battles, this book is a veritable masterpiece which I would strongly recommend to anyone interested in a broad and relatively detailed report of Napoleon's campaigns or military history of the time.The content is extensive and well supported by references, source material and anecdotes.
Even if it were, it'd be the most complicated and exciting game of risk ever, and you can hardly criticize a book for treating the subject it claims to treat in its more than obvious yet simple title.In short, if you're interested in Napoleonic warfare, read it.
He covers the entire arc of Napoleon's career and delves deeply into all the major battles.
The larger theater maps generally cover the entire area where a campaign takes place although they do not show the movements of the armies.
The references at the back of the book are excellent, and worth consulting while reading the main body of the text, particularly to explain the authors's passing reference to a concept of Napoleonic warfare or to deal with his habit of identifying Marshals by their titles of nobility rather than by name.

Quite a breathtaking piece of work.I first read this in 1976 and decided to re-read it in view of the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Waterloo and the end of the Napoleonic period.
It was also interesting read of key moments in his decline: his cynicism and despair in 1800 when his wife was unfaithful to him, which led to the author tracing Napoleon's megalomania from this point; his peak of achievement in 1807, after which real decline set in; his obsession with defeating Britain which led to foolish attempts to control the rest of Europe; the way mistakes increased because he had no energy to direct events on the battlefield closely; the way the Waterloo campaign was thrown away.
At 1100 pages, it is a doorstopper of a book.
I have owned this baby for about 20 years.
I will take this in little bites because frankly the descriptions of the battles pretty much run into themselves.Am now up to about 732 pages on the brink of the disasterous Russian campaign.
This book is for the serious Napoleon fan and goes into great detail the military genius of Napoleon.
But I have to take this book in small bites in order to digest it all.
He dominated Europe for the next 22 years when he met his waterloo in1815.
-Ese mamporrero, ese microcirujano, ese obseso del tiempo como la dimensión más importante en su oficio-.Género. Historia.Lo que nos cuenta. Análisis general, desde el punto de vista militar y en orden estrictamente cronológico, de la concepción de la guerra y su puesta en práctica más operativa que tenía el protagonista de la obra, desde Brienne a Waterloo.¿Quiere saber más del libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
If there must be a Bible about the Napoleonic Wars, it is this.
Well written, easy to read, and balanced around a difficult figure, Chandler gives a campaign history of Napoleon as a commander as well as giving the understanding of the tactics and style of war during the time period.
Writing in the 70s, Chandler gives a proper history of Napoleon as a commander that has yet to be matched.
Note: This is a campaign history of Napoleon as a commander, so wars such as the Peninsular Wars get only a light detailing during Napoleon's involvement due to the focus on Napoleon.
I've owned this book since college, which was back in the days when we wore racoon skin coats and boaters . Absolutely the definitive study of Napoleon's campaigns and looking through it recently I find it still stands up versus newer works. It does only cover campaigns where Napoleon was a participant, so not all the campaigns from the Napoleonic wars are covered. Also while it does give a limited biography of Napoleon it does shy away from the bigger picture of ruling France and the political, financial and other aspects of the First Empire.
Although the size and subject matter appears daunting, Chandler does well in structure and flow. His style of prose flows enough to allow an ease of understanding. He kept his descriptions straightforward and I didn't have to re-read in order to build comprehension. Of course, this wasn't something I picked up off the shelf for personal reading. I had accompanying seminars for my coursework. I recommend it for use in a similar formal study of Napoleon's strategy and tactics.
Chandler provides an easy narrative of Napoleon's campaigns. The book supplies exceptional detail about late 18th and early 19 century military tactics, organization, and operations, providing a new reader with an accessible frame of reference, but not in such a way as to disrupt the narrative. The title, however is quite literal; campaigns on which Napoleon is not present are only briefly summarized, as are most of the diplomatic and political maneuverings of the belligerents.
The fact that this book has maps that list almost EVERY landmark mentioned in the text warrants it 6 stars. Chandler's account is extremely crisp but never once sacrificed on detail; it's by far the most detailed account of the (purely) military aspects of the Napoleonic era. I've last read this book a few years back and stopped at the Battle of Austerlitz. As with any serious work on military history, mapwork is absolutely vital.
Chandler's book is still the standard work in English on Napoleonic warfare, even though published more than 45 years ago. You can easily trace his influence through other English accounts of the battle. However, the absense of German and Dutch sources (even those published in French) is a considerable limitation. Let alone those Russian or Spanish.
It's interesting to read this book and compare its portrayal of Napoleon to the one Tolstoy presents in War and Peace. Another interesting comparison is Von Clausewitz's The Campaign of 1812 in Russia. He was on the Russian general staff, and gives us a searing analysis of Napoleon's dumbest mistake.
A monumental book. The chapter on the Napoleonic way of war is worth the cost of the book by itself. Be aware that this book is NOT a history of the Napoleonic Wars. It deals with the campaigns that Napoleon was present, which means that whole sections of the Peninsular War are ignored. The loss of a star was for the spotty nature of the maps. A work this length should have much better maps.
This book is surprisingly a page turner. Written with an almost fictional quality. While a long book it is a thriller, while detailed it is not microdetailed. Microdetailed, is that even a word? Anyway, Napoleon's Campaigns are done sweet justice in this book, you will enjoy and learn why he was good and why he lost.
