https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104097.Sailing_to_Sarantium
Kay is one of few authors who's work come from different tree entirely as he draws inspiration from history and historical fiction.
Sailing to Sarantium play out more like book of historical fiction with personal story of an artisan as main focus.
Beside few fantasy elements this is very authentic setting and technology, medicine and way of life match those from history books.
So Kay put story in historic setting but without restraints of real world's history and geography.
In fact way supernatural elements are used is more similar to magical realism than fantasy.I remember Terry Goodkind talking about not liking his books being labeled as fantasy because he writes books about people no matter what setting they are in.
Kay explains it like this:"To say of a man that he was sailing to Sarantium was to say that his life was on the cusp of change: poised for emergent greatness, brilliance, fortune--or else at the very precipice of a final and absolute fall as he met something too vast for his capacity."Ah, so that explains it… This is the first book of Kay’s two-part Sarantine Mosaic, and as with the other one I recently read by him, The Lions of Al Rassan, he does a masterful job of building an intricate world full of political and religious conflicts as well as enough day-in-the-life details to make it all feel authentic and realistic.
*** 4.35 ***A buddy read with the Fantasy Buddy Read Group, because we love Kay's storytelling! "...“He wanted to achieve something of surpassing beauty that would last. A creation that would mean that he--the mosaic worker Caius Crispus of Varena--had been born, and lived a life, and had come to understand a portion of the nature of the world, of what ran through and beneath the deeds of women and men in their souls and in the beauty and the pain of their short living beneath the sun.” ..." I g
A creation that would mean that he--the mosaic worker Caius Crispus of Varena--had been born, and lived a life, and had come to understand a portion of the nature of the world, of what ran through and beneath the deeds of women and men in their souls and in the beauty and the pain of their short living beneath the sun.” ..."
Caius Crispus of Varena is on his way to Sarantium under a false name and with a contract to craft a mosaic for the newest basilica (equivalent of Haghia Sofia), just build by the current Emperor Valerius and the Empress, who have no hairs and feel the pressure of newer, emerging powers bubbling in the political swamp around them.
Sailing to Sarantium is a rivetingly beautiful story as only Kay can write them.But is it fantasy or historical fiction?I always say that while fantasy and historical fiction are two of my favourite literary genres, I detest the combination of the two.
I would go so far as to say that I usually have passionately negative feelings about any mixing of fantastical elements with the real world, be it superheroes, urban fantasy or historical fantasy.
There are always exceptions.Aside from the early attempts at writing Tolkienesque high fantasy, all of Guy Gavriel Kay’s books, while nominally part of the fantasy genre, have clearly defined historical backgrounds.
These are lovely written, but not - in any way that I see - indispensable for the main story.In fact, there are several internal monologues, personal reflections and musings.
The main protagonist, Caius Crispus, described as „choleric and of dark humour, and not inclined to be properly respectful” (totally me), is a mosaicist traveling to Sarantium, the city of Cities, under a false name, and carrying “an overture of marriage to the Emperor, who was very much married, and to the most powerful and dangerous woman in the known world”.
One thing that absolutely has to be said about Mr Kay's prose in Sarantium: the way he pays homage to women is simply phenomenal.
(Last Light of the Sun is the only one I’ve been ambivalent about so far.) Maybe this book is too similar to Lions for me--and most people seem to love Lions (if you do, you might want to ignore this review).
Or maybe I’ve just read too much Kay.At any rate, this book is about Crispin, a mosaicist who travels to Sarantium (a very thinly disguised Byzantium) in the place of his more famous but aged partner, who was summoned to work on a project for the Emperor.
Guy Gavriel Kay excels at writing those moments when the world stops, the characters hold their breath, and I do too. Those moments when powers beyond comprehension are right in front of you (worldly or supernatural), and no one knows what the outcome will be, where everything hangs on a knife's edge. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
It seems to be difficult to rate Kay's books any less than 5 full and deserved stars.
Moving with ease in his alternate Byzantium, Kay crafts an engaging tale and gives all his characters a full voice, each with well-rounded thoughts and personalities.Through the gradual world-building, the captivating introduction of the characters and the use of foreshadowing (if a bit pronounced) the narrative unfolds in a crescendo of unpredictability and tension, achieving an impeccable immersive effect and seamlessly bridging the two instalments of this duet.Do yourself a favor, pick a book penned by Kay.You moved through time and things were left behind and yet stayed with you.
Bearing with him a Queen’s seductive promise, Crispin sets out for the fabled city from which none return unaltered, guarded only by his wits and a bird soul talisman from an alchemist’s treasury.The first half of the book describes his journey, during which Crispin risks his life, gets into trouble, and wins the devotion of a clever former slave girl, the loyalty of a hired hand of few words and sound deeds, and the friendship and respect of a rough and foul-mouthed commander.The second part of the book deals with Crispin’s introduction to the Sarantium court and introduces us to the ruthless game for power, in which our unsuspecting mosaicist has already unwittingly become an important player.Art and beauty are foremost present in this book.From the description of the masterful mosaics to that of the fabled Sarantium, from the view of a forest in sunlight to the sight of a mythic zubir standing in a clearing at dawn, above a little bird lying on its side on the grass, Kay gives us art and beauty.Then we have the women.
But with Kay, I often heard the term "alternate history" or "historical fantasy." I was wary of those labels, and in fact I was really more confused than anything else since I noticed people using them interchangeably (and they clearly are not synonymous with each other).
Kay certainly drew his inspiration from history, and the setting of his book is modeled around a comparable historical framework.
There is a certain way of talking about the characters in the book that I never got used to.
Sure, Kay seems to draw so many direct parallels to history that the book might as well just be historical fiction.
I found this book a bit of a struggle to read until I came to the last third of the book, which seemed to fly by quickly and overall made the book more enjoyable. I was more engaged in the story once more political intrigue was involved and most of our characters were in Sarantium. Well worth reading, especially if you like historical fantasy novels.
The individual pieces in the political puzzle are intriguing too, from the Empress Arixana and the Emperor Valerius to the Queen Gisel, and the First Stratego Leontus and his seductive aristocrat bride.The book beautifully sets up the sequel, Lord of Emperors, which now goes to the top of my read pile.
As I read through this one, I felt sure it would rank right between the previous 5-star ratings, being a little better than Tigana but not quite as wonderful as Arbonne, but in the end Tigana had a much more satisfactory wrap up.Should I penalize a book that is obviously meant to be the set up for a second volume?
Sailing to Sarantium is a metaphor used brilliantly during the course of the novel.
I enjoyed sailing to Sarantium, sailing to this wonderful fantasy world.
In addition, all the other characters presented feel like they belong there and the way they life stories get interwoven in this novel is simply ingenious.There is a depth to this novel that I didn’t notice in other novels by Kay that I’ve read so far.
I liked the way the writer made religion an integral part of this book.
It may just be the best novel by Kay that I have read so far.
This book never once uses the word ‘vagina,’ and yet if you woke me up in the dead of night and asked me what this book was about, I would have groggily muttered, “cunts.
Kay is partly in control of the subliminally horrible sexual politics: those portions are somewhat uncomfortable and sometimes unintentionally funny.
Mostly, though, I don’t think Kay realizes that his entire construction of feminine sexuality is defined by how available any given vagina is to a man, and how attractive the body attached to the vagina is, and how politically valuable the body is.
He gives readers just enough context for and insight into his characters that they feel like actual people.
Crispin meets several memorable people during his journey and I found myself laughing with them, fearing for them, rooting for them (or, in some cases, against them).This is the first book in a duology and, based on some other reviews I’d read, I feared a cliffhanger-ish ending.
True, there are some issues with secondary characters that are left in flux but Crispin himself has reached a level of self-awareness and understanding by the end…a new precipice…and anything is possible.
That sort of open ending seems very much like actual life to me.
Ο συγγραφέας παίρνει τα γνωστά ιστορικά γεγονότα ως βάση για να φτιάξει μία δική του ξεχωριστή ιστορία, πιάνει τρυφερά τον πολιτισμό της βυζαντινής αυτοκρατορίας και της Ρώμης για να δημιουργήσει έναν ξεχωριστό φανταστικό κόσμο και στο τέλος πλάθει με την γνωστή του τρυφερότητα ξεχωριστούς χαρακτήρες, πού άλλοι μας συγκινούν, άλλοι μας μαγεύουν, άλλοι μας συναρπάζουν, άλλοι μας κάνουν να γελάμε, όλοι όμως είναι προσεκτικά φτιαγμένοι και τρισδιάστατοι.
Το μόνο πρόβλημα είναι ότι η ίδια η ιστορία δεν φαίνεται να οδηγεί σε κάτι το τρομερά συναρπαστικό, αν και σίγουρα ο τρόπος που δομείται και μας την αφηγείται ο συγγραφέας είναι κάτι περισσότερο από ενδιαφέρον, προσφέροντας μας ώρες αναγνωστικής απόλαυσης, τα φαινόμενα όμως μπορεί να απατούν.
Many reviews have said that it needs to be read in conjunction with its sequel.
I think the novel definitely suffers from lack of a climax towards the end and a pace that seems too slow in places.
Having said that, I really enjoyed the book.
I'm a big fan of historical fiction set in Roman times and although this is historical fantasy, the world felt familiar.
I hope no more are introduced for the sequel though.
It is my hope that this novel has set up the following one, for more action and pace.
4 stars
4.5 stars. I had little to no expectations about this book when I first started it other than Brandon Sanderson mentioned Kay in an interview or author panel once. You will not enjoy this if you are looking for an action-packed sword and sorcery fantasy. This is all about the writing, the characters, the politics of this Byzantium-inspired story with a twist of fantasy. It's fantastic. Doesn't feel like a story in-and-of itself, but that's what book 2 is for.
8.5/10I have to say before I started The Sarantine Mosaic I was a bit worried that I might not like so much Guy Gavriel Kay’s more “historical” based stories, but after reading   The Last Light of the Sun , which I liked it a lot, my interest on this duology began to change and of course Kay has done here a really great story.Inspired by some events on the 6th century in Byzantium Kay has made an incredible world, full with wonderful characters and with his writing being, simply, amazing.The sto
.Ελληνική κριτική:(view spoiler)[Πριν πιάσω αυτή την δυλογία πρέπει να πω ότι ήμουν κάπως επιφυλακτικός καθώς δεν ήμουν σίγουρος αν θα μου άρεσε τόσο το πιο «ιστορικό» κομμάτι του Kay, όμως μετά το Last Light of the Sun, που άρεσε αρκετά, το ενδιαφέρον μου άρχισε να αλλάζει και φυσικά ο Kay εδώ έχει κάνει μια εξαιρετική ιστορία.Βασισμένος λοιπόν σε γεγονότα από τον 6ο αιώνα στο Βυζάντιο, ο Kay έχει φτιάξει έναν πραγματικά απίστευτο κόσμο, γεμάτο με υπέροχους χαρακτήρες αλλά και με την γραφή του, απλά, να μαγεύει.Η ιστορία επικεντρώνεται κυρίως στον Crispin, έναν απλό τεχνίτη μωσαϊκών, που όταν μια μέρα κληθεί από τον Αυτοκράτορα για να διακοσμήσει τον ναό του Jad (κάτι ανάλογο του Χριστού) θα πρέπει να ταξιδέψει στο μακρινό Sarantium.
Iv'e known about Guy Gavriel Kay for a while, often hearing about his amazing use of language, and hearing how he meticulously researches before writing a book.
I'm sooo glad I decided to give this book a shot!Sailing to Sarantium is the first book of a duology and it combines elements of High Fantasy with Historical Fiction.
I'm still not sure how Kay managed to fit so much story in only 400 pages, with so many characters.
In the city of Sarantium we meet other unique characters including a chariot racer, a chef's apprentice, slimy senators, and a mysterious Empress.If you haven't read Kay yet, then I insist you do.
Still five stars even for the umpteenth reread
It’s a well-written slow-moving character-driven novel that’s full of the violence, sex, political intrigue, passion, and beauty we expect from Kay. If you’re a fan, you’re bound to enjoy this story.
This was hard for me, but I like Crispin and some of the other characters (e.g., the army officer, the famous chef and his apprentice, and the charioteer) and I’m interested in the mosaic and the birds, so I’m going to move on to the second SARANTINE MOSAIC novel, Lord of Emperors, and hope for a bigger pay-off.I’m listening to Berny Clark narrate Audible Frontier’s recent production of THE SARANTINE MOSAIC.
I've never read anything like this book before. Sailing to Sarantium is an amazing fantasy story with elements of art and history. I was really surprised by how well-written and imaginative it really was.
It might be even more interesting to people familiar with the history of the Byzantine Empire since this novel takes inspiration of that era/setting (the city of Sarantium taking the place of Constantinople).
The POV jumps around to a lot of different characters throughout the book and they frequently offer contrasting looks at the key moments in the story.
Even the so-called antagonists of the story seem like reasonable, albeit ambitious and sometimes reckless, characters.But after finishing the novel, I can't help thinking that the whole thing is just the set up to the climax in the 2nd book.
Από τα καλύτερα του συγγραφέα και με εξαιρετικό ενδιαφέρον για Έλληνες αναγνώστες, γιατί διαδραματίζεται σε μια alternative universe/fantasy εκδοχή του Βυζαντίου. Αλλά, χωρίς να θέλω να υποτιμήσω το μεταφραστή, ο Kay διαβάζεται καλύτερα στο πρωτότυπο.
4.5*The prose was wonderful and rich. The world was so well built and fleshed out. I found the first half of the book where Crispin journeyed to Sarantium the most engaging. The second part dragged at times in my opinion. The ending was less impressive than I was hoping for and thus left me feeling a little underwhelmed. Overall really enjoyed my first GGK book, I have the sequel on hold at the library and will read it very soon.
I don't think this was as good as Under Heaven, but still, the more I read Kay the more I like him.
His works are well written, carefully plotted and usually portray great (and human) characters.
The biggest flaw for me was that in this case the slow pace did bother me a bit.
It has a great cast of characters and the premise to become one of the best political fantasy I've read in a while.
A great one, and with brilliant moments mind you, but still an introduction to the events, characters and schemes to come.
This was my first foray into historical fantasy, unless I count the Strategos series of Gordon Doherty, which had a bit of fantasy.
I enjoy reading about the Byzantine Empire.
The story can be summarized briefly: a Rhodian [read: Roman] mosaicist, Caius Crispus, is commissioned by the Emperor Valerius II [=Justinian] for a mosaic in a large church in the city of Sarantium [=Constantinople].
Sarantium is a dangerous place for Crispus.
If the man on the cover of the copy I read is supposed to be Crispus, he looks nothing like the physical description.
4.5*The prose was wonderful and rich. The world was so well built and fleshed out. I found the first half of the book where Crispin journeyed to Sarantium the most engaging. The second part dragged at times in my opinion. The ending was less impressive than I was hoping for and thus left me feeling a little underwhelmed. Overall really enjoyed my first GGK book, I have the sequel on hold at the library and will read it very soon.
