https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32109.The_Masqueraders
(also, a little difficult when you’re posing as the opposite sex, but trust love to find a way), a couple of sword fights, an attempted elopement or two, a bit of a mystery, and a master manipulator pulling the strings.A brother and sister, Peter and Kate Merriot, are traveling to London in the late 1740s, soon after the unsuccessful Jacobite rebellion.
But someone else is interested in Sir Anthony: Peter Merriot, who is actually Prudence, while her brother Robin is playing the role of Kate.
I love this book so much.
Or when you had us crossdress in polite London Society?LT: I'm SO AWESOME, why are you questioning my AWESOME.Pru and Robin: *eyeroll*Tony: I want to take your daughter away and marry her and keep her safe.LT: PSHAW.
I'll keep her safe.Robin: Actually, Pru will keep HERSELF safe.
Or I'll take her away to France.Pru: Tony, I can't marry you!
I have to get one of those, how forward thinking of you!Blackmailer: ...I am in ecstasy over this book.
I think this particular Heyer improves on rereading.My earlier reads found it confused & confusing. This time I remembered enough of the plot from previous reads to keep up with the fast pace & all the twists & turns. GH has  a lot of balls in the air with this one - & she doesn't drop a single one.I find GH's Georgians a lot more romantic than her Regencies - certainly in their language & declarations of love; "I am to wait then! You deny me the right to protect you now?""Yo
"I stand in no danger from anyone, my dear Sir Anthony.
But as much as I did enjoy this read, this book will never be a 5★ Heyer for me, as there is an important plot point I can't get past.
(view spoiler)[ Call me a Female Chauvinist Sow, but I can't enjoy even a secondary male romantic lead in a dress & the scene where Robin is pacing in his skirts makes me want to giggle.
(hide spoiler)]But an engaging romp & The Old Gentleman is one of Heyer's great characters.
(view spoiler)[ The Old Gentleman's big scene would be awesome on film!
'Tis the tale of a pair of siblings, Prudence and Robin, who indulge in the time-honored literary sibling fun of cross dressing and exchanging genders- they are escaped Jacobites and habitual adventurers, you see.
Throw in a swooning, put upon heiress with dreams of romance, an indolent, intelligent "mountain," of a hero, and one of Heyer's most memorable characters- that of the "old gentleman," father of Prudence and Robin (as dazzlingly arrogant as he is dazzlingly capable and stylish), some abductions, seductions, honest-to-God he-smacked-that-guy's-cheek-with-his-glove duel fighting, and you've got an incredibly fun romp of a story that one should blow through smiling and gasping.
What woman could make a prettier and more convincing sight than Robin, dressed as Kate Merriot: "His curtseys were masterpieces of grace; the air with which he held out his hand to young gallants so consummate a piece of artistry that Prudence was shaken with silent laughter.
More intrigue ensues when their exceedingly shrewd father appears in town to make claim to his fortune as the long-lost heir, my Lord Barham.
Robin falls for the typical damsel in distress while Prudence finds herself smitten with the incomparable Sir Anthony Fanshawe, affectionately known as "the large gentleman" or "the mountain".
Georgette Heyer is of course best known for her historical romances set in the Regency years of 1811 to 1820, but in fact she wrote a good number of romantic novels set in other eras—including The Masqueraders, which takes place in the immediate aftermath of Bonny Prince Charlie’s failed attempt to gain the British crown in 1745.
And I shall say no more about the plot so you can enjoy the surprises that come thick and fast through most of the tale.Heyer wrote this novel when she was quite young, but although in some ways it betrays her youth it also reveals her promise.
I am in love with this book.
Robin made me laugh so much when he was acting Miss Merriot!!
Sir Anthony was an amazing character as well, I loved his personality and the way he kept pretending to be bored and lazy.
This book was awesome.
I loved the way the siblings kept calling themselves "child" it was so cute!!!
Prudence and Robin had one of the strongest brother/sister bond I had ever read about.And those little expressions like "Lud!" and "Egad!" were awesome!
It definitely added some nice touches to the language.One of the best books ever.
Since Prudence is tall for a lady and on the thin side she takes on the identity of Mr. Peter Merriot, who is, as Sir Anthony thinks, rather sharp at cards for a man so young.
Robin has is blessed/cursed with being much shorter that a young man likes to be, so he is dubbed Miss Kate Merriot.It turns out to be the masquerade of their lives, and may cost them more then they ever bargained for.
Prudence, is charming as "Mr. Merriot" and her brother Robin makes a darling "Kate Merrior".
Set a little earlier than most of Heyer's stories, this is a concoction of duels and hidden identities, and the two children of a long-time confidence trickster (very similar to the rogue in The Foundling, except this time not an antagonist).Pru and Robin (each dressed as the opposite gender) start out with a display of their skill - neatly rescuing a reluctant elopee, before settling in to wait on their father, and meantimes embroil themselves in romantic entanglements.There's a lot of fun to be had with this book, though I must admit that neither of the romances quite work for me.
The central premise involves cross-dressing—a brother and sister essentially swapping roles to prevent the brother, who took part in the Jacobite Rebellion, being arrested—but there's also their conman father, and lots of duels, and a conniving gentleman who keeps trying to get an innocent young heiress to elope with him.
It's terrific fun, and I really liked the characters, especially practical Prudence, who does very well in her adopted role of an 18th Century gentleman.
Though I do worry for Prudence, and the validity of her happy ending.
Is it allowable to review a re-read?I don't know, but I do know that this book is full of surprises, is beautifully written and is like a warm hug and a cup of frothy hot chocolate.If you want to have your soul scraped this won't do it. But if you want clever entertainment....
The plot is inventive, the heroes charming and original, and the humor of the situations inescapable.The action takes place before Regency, before the Napoleonic wars, soon after Culloden.
There are three leading characters in this novel: a father and his two adult children, the daughter Prudence and the son Robin, all three adventurers of the first order.
The father and the son participated in the battle of Culloden, not because they cared for Scottish independence but for some other, rather unclear but definitely unromantic, reasons.
A few months later, as the novel starts, the brother and sister reappear in London, masquerading as someone else and waiting for their father and his next con.
[7/10] Their infamous adventurer father has taught Prudence Tremaine and her brother Robin to be masters of disguise.
Ending up on the wrong side of the Jacobite Rebellion, brother and sister flee to London, Prudence pretending to be a dashing young buck, and Robin a lovely young lady.
I find it extraordinary how wild and careless this Regency generation comes off the page, compared to the straightlaced Victorians.My reason for the lower rating has to do less with Heyer and more to my other British humour reads this year: Jane Austen, P.
This was a different, fun, but overall baffling Heyer read.
She has some truly original characters in here and now on this third-read through I finally appreciate them more.
Things are only beginning to get confusing, though, as Robin-disguised-as-Kate falls in love with Miss Grayson, and Prudence-disguised-as-Peter falls for Sir Anthony, Letty's erstwhile beau.
Hilarious and enjoyable, particularly all the jibes about Robin's height (and his ability to flirt)Most unusual of all in this book, though, is Sir Anthony.
Like several Heyer Heroes, he faintly resembles Sir Percy Blackney, in this case the lazy langour that hides a brilliant mind.
Robin and Prudence are on their way to London, with the intention of lying low with Lady Lowestoft, a great friend of their father’s.
They also meet Sir Anthony Fanshawe, a friend of Letty's father.
Peter aka Prudence becomes a member of White's and becomes great friends with Mr. Belfont and his set, whilst Kate aka Robin is besties with Letty.
Sir Anthony Fanshawe takes Peter/Prudence as a sort of protege.And then their father arrives and makes a claim to the Viscountcy of Barham.I like Prudence very much.
On the down side, Robin is more like his father.
Let me explain.On the wonderfully ridiculous front we have one of my favourite Heyer characters: The Old Gentleman.
She endures rather than enjoys the coarseness of male society (no true heroine could actively participate in it without lowering herself in the eyes of the love interest and the readers).
The reader could hardly respect a love interest who wasn't entirely in command of the situation.Robin, naturally, goes full sassy!
Of course, there's absolutely no need for his love interest to figure out the situation.It's fun to think about, but it's also fun to just enjoy as the marvellous farcical romp that it is.
1. (view spoiler)[I about DIED during Prudence's reveal with Sir Anthony.
Even kickass Prudence can't fool Sir Anthony!
And it leaves a bad taste in my mouth: I want heroines who have the drop on their heroes but love them in spite of it; heroines who reveal their hands only when they so choose, rather than having it forced by their oh-so-smart hero.
Absolutely I want my heroes to be smart, and to be able to take care of my heroines when there is need, but I don't want it at the cost of my heroines' abilities.
I haven't read it for quite a few years, and I'd forgotten almost all of it, so it was almost like a new read.
Not my fav Heyer, and I don't know whether I'll ever bother to read it again.
This is a very early example of Ms Heyer's writing, and I didn't really like the formal and old-fashioned flavour of the writing itself.
But, as I made myself read on, the story did pick up again, and the plot resolved itself neatly, which is one of Ms Heyer's great skills.
Still, not my fav Heyer......
It’s one of those uncomplicated, surfacey likes that is untroubled by Heyer’s usual classism or period sexism (the girl dressing as a man requires so much bravery, you see, whereas the man dressing as a woman requires, uh, a dress.
End digression).I liked this because of Heyer’s usual attention to the depth and importance of the platonic relationships.
And more keenly, because of one of the romances, wherein it is proven once and for all that courtship between a man and a woman dressed as a man looks exactly like period-appropriate close male friendship.
Since Prudence is tall, she takes on the identity of Mr. Peter Merriot and Robin has is blessed/cursed with being shorter that a young man likes to be, so he becomes Miss Kate Merriot.
Pacing problems aside, I really like Prudence and her love match was satisfying, but Robin's was so boring and, at times, slapstick ridiculous.
Our heroine is well integrated into her role as a gentleman and her calm, frank nature makes her so endearing.Next time I read this, I'll skim Robin/Leticia parts, but all in all, this was a satisfying read.
But, oh, what fun!I loved that Prue and Robin's cross-dressing adventure is presented in a way that's believable by the other characters and by the reader.
Robin, who is smaller than the average man, is able to take on the characteristics of a flighty young society woman in a way that's sympathetic.
There is little-to-no mugging for laughs in this part of the story; the danger of being caught out is acknowledged, but there's no question that Prue and Robin are capable of pulling off the deception.I also love that Prue and Robin, whose respective sizes fall outside the norm, are presented as admirable heroes in a romantic adventure.
"You're an amazing woman, my dear," was all he said.
Prudence and Robin, fearing for their lives after the failure of the Jacobite Rebellion, decide that the best plan lay in disguising themselves.
Then also, Anthony's private ruminations over Prudence were also rather amusing.The only downside to reading a Heyer is that often she'll use speech idioms that aren't used any more, even in modern historical romances.
Heyer was very big on keeping things as accurate as she could, and with the speech of Prudence and Robin's time being nearly 260 years out of date, it can be quite confusing at times.
Still, if you are new to Georgette Heyer, I recommend reading THE MASQUERADERS first.
My girlfriend gave this to me, saying it was her favourite 'comfort reading' book.
Certainly, if she was writing this story today, she would have handled it differently.Heyer has had many imitators, but where many of them fall short of her is in having one-dimensional stock characters, while hers are usually interesting and well-drawn, while still filling the necessary roles of 'witty, resourceful adventurer' or 'bullying cad'.
This character development would have been a positive in a grittier story but I found it a little hard to go along with in an escapist adventure.
The Masqueraders is set in a slightly earlier period than Georgette Heyer's usual Regency novels, just after the Jacobites' failed attempt to put Bonnie Prince Charlie on the throne of England.
Prudence and Robin are sister and brother, children of a charming rogue who was mixed up, along with Robin, in the Jacobite uprising.
Wanted for treason, they disguise themselves as members of the opposite sexes -- Robin as the charming Kate Merriot and Prudence as Kate's brother Peter -- but their masquerade is sorely tested when they each fall in love.I found the plot of The Masqueraders on the implausible and contrived side; too much of it revolved around the machinations of Prudence and Robin's father.
Prudence and and her brother Robin have spent most of their lives pretending to be other people.
In order to escape exposure of Jacobites, Prudence and Robin change not only their identities, but their genders.
Prudence becomes Peter and Robin his sister Kate.
Peter and Kate become the toast of the town, as they await the arrival of their father...Cross dressing twins, mistaken (and revealed) identities, swindles, intrigue, masked balls...it has everything, including a twist so unexpected that I exclaimed outloud and then spent the entire day explaining it to my family, none of whom really cared.
This has always been one of my favorite Heyers.
I think it's the best of Heyer's cross-dressing tales, featuring one of my favorite Heyer heroines, Prue, who has spent most of her life dressed as a boy, calmly learning to defend herself with a sword, to gamble, and to masquerade for her father, who has been ranging all over Europe in disguise, as he was disinherited.
His son, Robin, who has spent the same amount of time dressed as a girl, and Prue don't really know, but they dance to the tune their father plays.
This might be one of my most favorites! So much fun! Cross-dressing characters who are in multiple dangers: social and physical and - I just really loved the detail and the dialogue and the truly fun and original characters - I just can't say enough about that! I love the brother and sister's relationship and the real historical details. The tone and style are so different from the other Heyers I also love.
A very fun read. In regards to the plot, it definitely reminded me of a Shakespearan comedy. How can you go wrong with that? As for the characters, I will always think of Lord Barham as Lord Awesome or Lord Grandeur.
This was my first time reading this Heyer, and I must confess the premise wore thin for me; I skipped over several chapters at the end to read the ending once I saw where it was headed. I truly enjoyed Prue and Tony, but found the "Old Gentleman" a narcissistic jerk and horrible father - sorry to those who love this book! It will never be a favorite of mine, although I could see where Heyer would grow into a wonderful author.
At the end of that scene, we also meet Sir Anthony Fanshawe, who is destined to be the heroine’s love-interest, a very large man with a seemingly indolent manner, who is actually one of Ms Heyer’s typically nonchalant but very shrewd heroes; a man who sees a lot more than he lets on, whom the siblings affectionately nickname “The Mountain”.So far, so straightforward, until the third chapter when we learn that Kate is not, in fact, Kate, but Robin, and Peter is not, in fact, Peter, but Prudence, and the pair (who really ARE brother and sister) are travelling in disguise because of Robin’s participation on the wrong side in the failed rebellion.Thus the narrator is presented with rather a difficult task.
