https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2971153-beyond-life
Cabell's vocabulary is immense, not to mention that he was writing this in 1919 and some of his style is from a time before that.
I knew about the practice: when you bought a book new before or around the turn of last century, often the ends of the pages were still in the "loops" of paper as they were bound into the book, and had not been sliced off by an automatic cutter.
The first thing a reader has to do to read the book is take a letter opener or knife and separate the pages.
I hesitate to call this book 'great', not because it's largely composed of idiosyncratic commentary on authors now forgotten, but because part of that commentary is a deep scepticism of the very idea of greatness - the observation being made that many acknowledged classics are best enjoyed from a respectful distance.
Even Cabell himself, in listing (often hilariously) the writers of his day who will not endure, errs when he includes Conan Doyle.Elsewhere, though...this book includes the best writing on Christopher Marlowe which I've ever read, and without directly addressing the nonsense, summarises exactly why that lunatic genius and Shakespeare can't have been the same person.
James Branch Cabell (rhymes with rabble) is in my opinion the single most underrated great American writer. This is a book length rumination of aesthetics and theology. He argues among other things that Christianity must be true because it posses the perfect story and he is being only slightly ironic. One should read the novels (start with Jurgen) first.
In the tradition of H.P. Lovecraft and J.L. Borges, James Branch Cabell has his interlocutors discuss literature, both real and imagined. Clever--a reward for erudition.I believe I picked this up at a used bookstore in Cambridge, MA while on a visit from New York to my old college chum and dormroom neighbor, Rick Strong, in Allston, MA.
Sublime. Izzit a tease or a testament?Cher Maitre opines that a "pop" novel respects thelimitations of its readers.The root of all evil izznt money, he adds, it's the lackof imagination.Crescendo: The story of Christ is the story of Cinderellain more impressive terms.Literature, love, life viewed with heavenly jeux d'esprit.
My local library has a first edition of this book.
If Cabell restrained his urge to discuss authors and playwrights I don't care about, and stuck to snarky philosophizing, this would be a 5.
Unlike Jurgen, The Silver Stallion and Figures of Earth, Cabell's great fantasy novels, this is a series of wise essays with a philosophy that underpins all Cabell's books. Cabell's prose style may a bit florid for today's tastes, but I still think he's a terrific read. There's never been anyone like him, and I've found him a huge inspiration in my own work. My first fantasy novel, Not Very Arthurian, will be dedicated to him.
A brilliant meta-fictional discussion about the value of romance and imagination in literature and in life. Filled with innumerable bon mots - I particularly liked the bit about evolution being sparked by a fish's literally insane desire to live out of the water. My first visit to Poictesme (or, at least, related realms), but certainly not my last.
