https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/537404.Life_and_Death_in_Shanghai
The colour of the Party.Nien Cheng became an obvious target of the Red Guards as she was educated in London, and her deceased husband was an official of Chiang Kai-Shek's regime, the Kuomintang, before the communists took over mainland China.
When she refused to confess that foreign education, working for a multinational company (with Party’s permission) and enjoying the comforts of life brought by such a high level job, made her an enemy of the state, she was placed in solitary confinement, where she remained for six and a half years.Even if someone was not working for a multi-national company as Cheng did, there was no guarantee that they wouldn’t be arrested as an enemy of the state, as in each organization, three to five percent of the total employees were to be declared the ‘enemy’ because that was the percentage mentioned by Chairman Mao in one of his speeches.
A grand slam of a book. An essential view of The Great Helmsman's wretched Cultural Revolution as told through the life of this woman—a widow and mother—whose long dead husband had had the misfortune to work for the Imperialist Dog, Shell Oil. A harrowing and mind-numbing read. A book that will make you angry. Prepare yourself accordingly. Not for the faint of heart.
But I can tell that he bought this book, he put it in the shopping cart.You know what, when he'd finished the purchase and got out of the airport, he was taken away immediately by some guys from Mainland, who worked for some "related department" bureau of them comms motherfuckers, which suppresses and persecutes the dissident for decades all along.
And those guys had being reconned and tracked him for a while, yeah.Then, this banned book purchase guy just got "vanished", I mean “disappeared in the air just like a fart”.Well, perhaps you might be skeptical in what I've just said, OK, you can call it a day.
This book is one that I would definitely recommend to all readers. It is eloquently written and very engaging. It chronicles the imprisonment of a Western-educated business woman living in China during the Cultural Revolution.It is a very intimate look at Mao Tse-Tung and how his philosophies affected the Chinese people--and not for the better. Mrs. Cheng is a wonderful narrator and writes a very excellent true story.Recommended to all who like an intense story of human survival, and all those who are also interested in the culture and history of China.
It's been some twenty years since I read this book, a book that has "stayed" with me in a very powerful way. In fact, I would say that "Life and Death in Shanghai" is among my Top Twenty among the hundreds of non-fiction books I have read.
Wonderful book. So well written. The author spent over 6 years in prison during the cultural revolution, during that time her daughter was murdered, after release she was harassed and spied upon. Eventually she left China, but had to leave all her possessions, money, etc. behind. Somehow you never feel depressed while reading about all these terrible things. The backbone of this woman is amazing, her poise in these situations that would destroy most people. And never a boring page.
Yet the great irony is that the whole memoir about a resourceful, resilient and determined woman fighting for her innocence and survival during the 6.5 years’ imprisonment during the Cultural Revolution ended her China story with fatalism, total surrender, desperation and ultra helplessness.
And no less tragic.This “once read and never forgotten” memoir is a depressive read, but what’s more terrible is that, after such a horrific, tragic and devastating life experience in China, the author never gets a satisfactory answer to the question raised by herself in the book: why did the power struggle at the top of the government masterminded by Mao Zedong inflict so much pain and tragedy on ordinary people?
. .if you peruse my list of books (not likely) you might notice a number of stuck-in-prison-for-some-reason memoirs.
What's amazing about this book is its umm "insider's" view of the Cultural Revolution.
Nien Cheng spent 7 brutal years in a re-education style prison denying any involvement with any crime - even though her interrogators accused her of everything from spying to un-revolutionary thoughts.
Ms. Cheng describes her ordeal clearly and without excessive self-pity.
A women saw me reading this in the elevator and was like, "That's a great book."Yes - it is.
It's a great read and an amazing story.
I am in awe at the moral and spiritual strength of Nien Cheng, a former Shell employee who lived, despite torture and imprisonment, through China's cultural revolution.
I read this book shortly after reading "Wild Swans: Three Women of China." If you really want to learn about China, I recommend reading them in that order.
Wild Swans gave me a wonderful broad introduction to the history of Communism in China, as experienced by one family.
Life and Death in Shanghai gave me a closer look at just the period of the cultural revolution, from the perspective of a woman from a different walk of life in a different part of China.
It is a memoir by a Chinese woman about her experience during the Cultural Revolution, when she was taken prisoner (she was in her late 50s at the time) and held in a dark, dank cell in Shanghai for six years while the Communist Party lackeys and Red Guards tried to force from her a confession that she was an enemy of the state and a spy (since she had lived and studied abroad and worked for a foreign company in Shanghai), which she refused despite extreme pressure, some physical abuse, and the dismal state of her imprisonment.
This is a remarkable autobiography for several reasons: one - Nien Cheng wrote this later in her life - I want to say her 50's or 60's in English, not her native language.
Secondly, it is an amazing account of the cultural revolution in China during the 60's, political and cultural events that leave an eerie sense of deja-vu.
Thirdly, this woman was wrongfully arrested, and even though she could have been released if she had lied, she told the truth - every time she was interrogated - and was kept in prison for seven years.
Nien takes us step by step into the processes that she faced during this turbulent time that cost her freedom, way of life, and her daughter.
People often say to me that they don't understand the Chinese for giving away their children (they must be unfeeling).....there is no one answer....
For me, this book helped me have a little look into Chinese history that helped formed the problems that they are faced with today.
not because Chinese people are unfeeling or alien in their thinking (Nien shows us that she feels/thinks/acts in a way that we can all identify with) .....
Life and Death in Shanghai is the powerful story of Nien Cheng's imprisonment, of the deprivation she endured, of her heroic resistance, and of her quest for justice when she was released.
An incisive, rare personal account of a terrifying chapter in twentieth-century history, Life and Death in Shanghai is also an astounding portrait of one woman's courage."This is one of the most powerful books I have ever read.
I first read it in 1988 or 1989 and it has stuck with me all these years.
This one is on my list of books that are most memorable. Inspiring example of the resilience of the human spirit.
This is perhaps the most inspirational of the ones I have read.At the time I first read this book, I taught a high school course in Asian Studies and needed personal accounts that might engage the students in the history and culture of China.
The government took her home taken away, destroyed her possessions (Red Guards dismissed her traditional Chinese art and heirlooms and her Western books as signs of her corruption), imprisoned her based on false allegations of espionage and beat her daughter to death for failing to renounce her mother (something Cheng only learned after her release from prison).
So, I gave away my original copy and kept this one.After this second reading, I gained a better understanding of the Chinese youth who were swept into the Cultural Revolution and they must be about my age now.
They were the new type of people produced by the Communist Revolution in China.
The result was a fundamental change in the basic values of Chinese society.""It seemed China had changed during the years I was in the detention house, and the change was not in the direction the Cultural Revolution was supposed to lead the nation.
Although Cheng is a fine reporter of what she observes, there are a few lines that made me question her ability to accurately gauge the political pulse: “I believed a government interrogator… must be a trained man… able to distinguish a guilty person from an innocent one,” or, three years into her arrest, “I realized for the first time that my failure to provide a confession of guilt was interpreted as an act of defiance against the Party,” or later still, “I had formed a distinct impression that when my life and activities had been examined, I would be released.” This from a woman not only suffering herself under Communist rule, but educated about the terrors of Soviet dictatorship.
Nien Cheng and Life and Death in ShanghaiSizhe LiangAs a man who was born in China, it’s especially important to know the truths of the passed days .Because of the political reasons, many history facts are sensitive to talk about, The Cultural Revolution, undoubtedly included.
When she was forced to attend criticism meetings, when she had to see her house being occupied by the Red Guards, when she was arrested by the state and when her daughter was forced to death, it pushes you to think what is the institution that we should choose to live in.
Nien Cheng’s memoir describes her life in Shanghai from 1966, at the beginning of the Proletarian Cultural Revolution, to 1987, when she was living in Washington DC, writing her memoir and preparing for US citizenship.
After her release from prison she was eventually exonerated of all charges against her (“rehabilitated”) and emigrated to the United States.The descriptions of Nien Cheng’s experiences during these two decades are fascinating and shed light on the atmosphere and political tensions and vicissitudes of those years.
I found myself wondering how universal her experiences were and whether some of her descriptions were objectively true or were biased by her obvious anger and grief over her daughter’s death.
Once, I asked him point-blank.
Her merely shrugged his shoulders and said, “You mustn’t ask anyone a direct question like that.
In any case, you can’t afford to believe the answer, whatever it is.”Can I afford to believe what you have just told me?” I asked him half jokingly.“Yes, definitely.
But I’m sure you know trusting anybody al all is ill-advised.” He said, blithely dispensing wisdom as if he were an old sage.Page 484...Under our seemingly wooden exterior of unconcern, there was in fact a heightened sense of alertness born of the instinct for self-preservation.Page 520To speak at the study group was an art.
I've read a number of personal narratives from the Cultural Revolution, but most of them have been from authors who were still in school when the turmoil began in 1966.
Her analysis of the political struggles taking place among the top party officials also is much more sophisticated than most of the other narratives out there, again probably because she herself was older, wiser and more politically sophisticated, having already lived through some of the earlier political upheavals and the 1949 Communist Revolution.
Those narratives speak of life for the then-children whose parents had been denounced for one reason or another.
This narrative speaks from the perspective of one who was herself denounced and who worried about the effect it would have on her 24-year-old daughter.
I thought the late 60s in the US were a time of radical change, but they're nothing compared to how Mao's Red Guards turned China upside down.
I live in Shanghai where this memoir took place.
The author does a great job of blending her personal narrative with enough background history lessons that when you're done reading her story you come away with a much deeper understanding of why and how thousands of Chinese were persected.
Maybe after reading up on it and comparing the Chinese revolution with the Cuban revolution I'll understand Communism better.Read this book.
I read this book shortly after my first trip to Shanghai in 1992.
At the time it resonated with me as I had just seen many of the places she mentions in her book, from the French Consession, to the Park Hotel (which is next door to my Shanghai office).
The book is hard to read, Cheng discusses frankly her time in prision, her daughters "suicide"/execution and life as one who was educated during some of the darkest years in Chinese History.
Whilst I appreciate the hardships and struggles that the author went through I didn't manage to finish this book - the style was just a bit too grating. She seems to possess a picture perfect memory of conversations and justifies herself just a bit too much.
One of my favorite memoirs. I read it in the late 80s and still often think about Cheng's experience and strength. It might be time for a re-read.
Accused of being a spy, she survived more than six years of harsh imprisonment by the Red Guards in China.
The cultural revolution, lasted for about ten years, in which time a million people were murdered by the Red Guards, thousands committed suicide, and hundreds of thousands of people were beaten, interrogated, robbed, tortured, and imprisoned.
Interrogators came and went, often becoming angry at her steadfastness, her political shrewdness, but they never got what they wanted from her, a confession of wrong-doing, or a denouncement of someone else.In 1970 things became more serious, they now increased the pressure on her.
The story of Nien Cheng’s survival throughout the Cultural Revolution in China is one of the most inspiring stories you will ever read.
While it is not a history textbook and what Nien Cheng often states are her own opinions I still think it is a vastly important source which puts a humanistic perspective on all the events that took place during this movement in China.
But most of all I felt connected to Nien Cheng almost as if she was sitting right next to me telling me her story in person which is this memoir’s strongest asset and why I think it will always be a timeless story of hope, courage, and the beauty of the human spirit.
Nien Cheng and her husband were well educated overseas in the 1920's and her husband worked for Shell Oil in Shanghai, which provided them with an affluent lifestyle.
When her husband died, Nien Cheng was asked to remain as an agent and run the Shanghai office for Shell.
With this background she of course became a target for the various purges that occurred from the late 1940's onwards.She was accused of being a spy for the West, of having iconic ornaments that no Chinese citizen should own and any other fabrication that the local cadres could assemble and put her on a farcical trial to face those accusations.
It presents so much information of the Chinese Communist Party in front of me, which I could by no means learned from my text book.
While reading this book, I found some ideologies and thoughts which proves as wrong in the book was taught when I was in elementary school.
I start to question the knowledge I learned from school, and I feel frustrated because all those I believe in without thinking are likely just a lie.
The fact I believe in it and use it to guide my life without thinking if it's right or wrong makes me as a joke.
An amazing book by an amazing women.
While Nien Cheng tellingly analyzes her own experience as a prisoner in communist China, she goes beyond herself and describes how individuals and communities responded to the pressures of communism and a cultural revolution.
I particularly enjoyed the second half of the book describing her life after prison, the political mood of the country, and what the future might look like.
This is a great book for people without any background on China's modern history to gain a greater understanding of who key political players were during the 60s and how this recent past has effected the world view of those living in China today.
