https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39795.The_Dogs_of_Riga
Henning Mankell’s second Kurt Wallander novel was better than the first, 1991’s Faceless Killers, and much of the enhanced praise comes from Mankell’s use of and exploration of the dichotomy between these northern countries and at this time and place.The Cold War was winding down, The Scorpions were releasing a song called “Wind of Change”, Ronald Reagan was telling eastern folks to tear down a wall, and Hey, let's face it, there was a lot of transformations in the world.In Latvia, citizens would get the choice (more or less) about whether to stay in the Soviet orbit or go it alone and free.
Later, Wallander is summoned to Riga to help the Latvian police and he gets embroiled in the changes sweeping the communist world.An inspired, introspective but dynamic story told with style and character.
Kurt Wallander, Swedish detective, is inexplicably sent to Latvia to investigate the death of a Latvian police officer who was killed ...in Latvia.Wallander doesn't know why he's in Latvia.
Henning Mankell doesn't appear to know why Wallander is in Latvia.
I don't know why Wallander is in Latvia.
The subplot of shadowy...whatever they were...freedom fighters...?
Who does that?), and the other subplot with the love interest was ridiculous.
Wallander is 40-ish, not 14.I should have paid attention to my instinct to drop this in the discard pile, but I was determined to ride it out.
The new breed of crime rising in the early ‘90s in Sweden continues to shock him and makes him uncertain whether he should even continue being a cop.When a life raft with a couple of tortured and murdered bodies washes up on shore, Wallander doubts that there will be any way to solve the crime, and when the victims turn out be from Latvia, he’s all too happy to turn the case over to the Latvian detective sent to investigate.
A great everyman sort of detective, who is very insecure about his professional skills and private life, Wallander seems always on the verge of just giving up in frustration.
I was looking forward to reading this one because it hadn't been adapted for Kenneth Branagh's Wallander TV series, which I've been a fan of.
Mankell tries to establish two of the underused characters from the first book, Martinsson and Svedberg, and Wallander is having more health problems but before we can relax into the investigation he introduces a twist and Wallander ends up going solo for some extended cloak and daggering in Riga, Latvia.
I look forward to reading the next book in the series which hopefully will have Wallander, shouting at his subordinates, stuffing down cold pizza and struggling with his personal life in Sweden - where he belongs.
(hide spoiler)], perhaps you read the papers or follow the news and know that most murder cases are not at all like the stories in Detective fiction, but still perhaps you are still able to enjoy such stories.
I read about the second murder and I remember the man who tried to murder his parents by driving them into a canal.
Later he drove round to their home and killed them with a shot-gun (view spoiler)[ or what about the young woman whose mother forbade her from having a boyfriend let alone getting married.
(hide spoiler)]The problem with this kind of stupidity is that it doesn't make for long novels.
It seems clear that the crime did not occur on Swedish soil and so Wallander is happy to pass the case on to his Latvian counterpart and assume that his job is done.In fairly short order, however, complications ensue and Wallander winds up going to Latvia to assist in the continuing investigation.
The case he is investigating becomes increasingly complex, and Wallander is soon at the mercy of forces beyond his control.Wallander continues to be a fairly dour character who is now plunged into a very depressing situation.
My impending trip to Riga gave me the perfect pretext for reading this (though it's actually the second in the Wallander series; I haven't yet read the first).
Good job I wasn't relying on it as a guide to the city, as it was written prior to Latvia's emancipation from the Soviet Union in 1991, and portrays Riga as a depressing totalitarian wasteland in which every room is bugged and you're liable to get kidnapped by the Russian mafia at any point.
I can see why the Wallander books have become near-ubiquitously popular; the character is very interesting but completely believable, with so many realistic imperfections.
Die Stimmung im grauen Riga wird sehr gut eingefangen und wenn Mankell nicht versucht hätte, einen wahnsinnig großen Komplott in sein Werk einzubauen und den kleinen Wallander als quasi Kleinstadtkomissar zum schwedischen Geheimagenten umfunktionierte, dann wäre es ein richtig gutes Buch geworden.
Wallander als Mischung von Jason Bourne und Ethan Hunt, der in das Allerheiligste der lettischen Polizei im Geheimen eindringt, um dann im Archiv in den Mülleimer zu kacken und eine kleine blaue Akte zu stehlen, die dann alles auflöst, ist einfach zu viel des Guten für mich.
-----------------------------------------------------Series ReviewHenning Mankell is an internationally known Swedish crime writer known mostly for this fictional character Kurt Wallander.
The Nordic weather, cold to the bones, drives its populace indoors for much of the year where cuddling up to read the latest in crime fiction is a national pastime.For many GR readers who have been introduced to Kurt Wallander it is interesting to note that ultimately the success of bringing Mankell to English speaking audiences only came after bringing in the same production company responsible for Steig Larsson's Millennium trilogy for the wildly popular BBC version starring Kenneth Branagh.
Why were they killed.
These added elements make for an even more exciting read, and a great way to fully hook me on the series that I already wanted to read anyhow.Great sophomore effort and appealing to fans of thriller, detective, crime, etc.Highly recommended.
The set up rapidly takes us through some standard police procedural but after a few reveals it switches focus to a new, seemingly unrelated crime.
Wallander is promptly sent to Riga in Latvia and for much of the middle section he wanders/mopes around Riga with little focus.
It's also quite dated; an afterword explaining the rapidly changing political/social situation in the Baltic states back in 1991 is interesting but highlights that times have changed.I still like the character and wouldn't rule out any further books, especially as most people seem to like them.
Não gostei tanto como do primeiro livro desta série, mas ainda assim a história prende e não há vontade de interromper a leitura. Gosto da personagem de Kurt Wallander e apreciei o entretenimento que o livro me proporcionou. Uma série que pretendo continuar a conhecer.
So it could be that my reaction to The Dogs of Riga -- author Mankell's second Wallander novel -- is one of relief in finding an entry in this genre that didn't make me want to open a vein.Inspector Kurt Wallander, Our Hero, is a detective in a provincial town in southern Sweden.
As a result, Wallander isn't nearly as much a human wreck as he was in Faceless Killers, and most of the non-Swedish characters are likewise acting rather than wallowing in their various dysfunctions.It's this atypical excursion into political intrigue that salvaged this book for me.
Ainda não foi desta que me rendi ao policial nórdico. Pode ter a desculpa de ter envelhecido mal. Datado da Perestroika, na segunda década deste século perde o efeito novidade que disfarçava uma péssima mediania.
There are readers who eat this up.I eat it, too, but the same food night after night eventually gets a little dull.
A Latvian connection is found and a Latvian police captain arrives in Sweden to assist Wallander in his investigation.
(Yes, bleak needs to be said twice.)But there is a lot of filler to get through.
(They are very slight.) I wasn't impressed by the writing, but the story did keep me reading.And I am still not done with Kurt Wallander.
read the next one in the series just because I kind of like him, sparse, spare writing and all.
I wasn't sure I was going to keep reading the Wallander series, but I kept thinking about Wallander in that way you do if an author has done a great job with the character -- as if Wallander were a real person.
One criticism I have is that in both books so far, Wallander thinks he's fallen in love with what is the only prominent woman in the book.
Again in this book we feel Wallander's frustration at the growing callousness and encroaching violence his small city is dealing with.
You can't help but keep reading because you're thinking, "How is he going to get out of this one?"
My dissapointment after what I thought was the start of a very promising police procedural series makes me rate this lower than the book probably deserves.I was expecting another gloomy, realistic rendering of a murder case, and the first chapters offered me just that : a mysterious boat is found in the Baltic with two unidentified corpses in it.
Wallander tries to unravel the mystery, but he has a hard time because there are very few clues.
But there's nothing here : Wallander solves the case based on his "intuition" and a series of lucky coincidences, that are not based on any facts or discovery of clues.
This was an engaging mystery, with two dead bodies found drifting in an inflatable raft in the ocean and Wallander his usual charming glum self, until the setting moved from Sweden to Latvia.
And my image of a woman who would have the name Baiba Liepa is a fat housewife wearing a babushka, simmering pigs feet in a big cauldron in her yard next to her Lada up on cinder blocks, so it was a stretch for me to picture Wallander falling in love with her.
Nonetheless after the death - not in Sweden - of a non-Swedish detective, Wallander is suddenly in Riga aiding the investigation and pursuing conspiracies that have nothing to do with him.
Instead of a book that fleshes out the city, the regime and the characters involved in the conspiracy, instead of revealing - or even explaining to us - the issues that inspire so much fear and loyalty, we are treated to Wallander wandering around a city he doesn't know, meeting people in the dark, none of whom really explain much of anything - he's a stranger after all.
Not quite as good as the first in this series featuring Kurt Wallander (Faceless Killers -- which I thought was excellent), but still an enjoyable read.
I'd definitely recommend it to people who want to follow the series, and to mystery readers in general.
Wallander is assigned to the case; all he and the other policemen know is that the men are from the Eastern Bloc somewhere, based on the way their dental work has been done.
His help on the case ultimately lands Wallander in Riga, where he's not sure who he can trust in a country where everyone is suspicious of everyone and everyone is unsettled after the events of 1989.

https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
Soon he realizes that he's being followed 24 hours a day (by some of the Dogs of the title), and from what the Latvian police have shared with him, Kurt senses that something is terribly wrong with their story, and it scares him.
The Dogs of Riga is part police procedural, part spy novel, and part social commentary.
Henning Mankell usually writes around a theme, and in addition to Wallander's loneliness and chronic angst (makes one wonder why his doctor never suggested a good antidepressant), the grim forces of totalitarianism, organized crime, and government and political corruption, toward which Western Europeans and Americans prefer to turn a blind eye, color every facet of this gray, gray novel.
I was surprised when this story jumped out of Sweden into an entirely different country, and I shook my head whenever Wallander pondered his plane to take on a police state.
What's brilliant is that Mankell deals with the real ramifications of this notion, and the subsequent story that he doles out is exciting in part because Wallander finds himself in the deep end and has to improvise a way to survive everything.I was tempted to call this book "realistic," but I hesitate now, having no experience of my own taking on a police state single-handed.
Porque, além da resolução de um crime em si, descrevem muito o contexto social ou político em os crimes são cometidos.Neste volume enquadrado nos Wallander thrillers (falei de outro aqui), a propósito de dois corpos encontrados numa balsa ao largo da Suécia, Mankell leva-nos para uma investigação na Riga do início dos anos 90, quando os estados bálticos se encontravam em transição após a queda da União Soviética.
E o que nos mostra é uma sociedade sombria, com medo, em que o tráfico de influências ainda domina e onde mal se pode dar um passo sem se ser vigiado.
The only thing that prevented me from giving it a five star rating was the rather incredulous plot decision to take Wallander out of his familiar Swedish locales and endeavors and thrust him rather impulsively back into the bowels of Latvia, complete with cold-war like characters and double, no make that triple, crosses in the story line.
It's just that the author seems to stretch plausibility a bit too far by seeming to want the reader to believe that the usually implacable Wallander would embark on such an impetuous undertaking based on his infatuation with the widow of a Latvian police detective with whom he spent only a very brief time.
J Jer svaki ljubitelj krimića ne bi trebao čitati suvremene pisce ovog žanra bez da je krenuo od Agathe Christie, Sir Arthur Conan Doylea, Georgesa Simenona pa (da skratim) preko Mankella ( i dr.) došao do Stiega Larssona, Nesba i ostalih današnjih (skandinavskih) zvijezdi književnog neba.I kad smo već kod Skandinavaca, da, upravo je Mankell bio taj koji je „utro put“ svima njima i uvelike pomogao tome da se, kako ja volim reći, uz ABBU, Volvo i Ericsson uz Švedsku danas vežu i odlična književna (krimi) ostvarenja.
Kao što mnogi autori krimi serijala svoje romane povezuju glavnim likom, tako i Mankell ima „svog“ istražitelja Kurta Wallandera.
I understand that there's so little crime in Sweden that a mystery writer has to look to redder fields, but the whole Latvian plot is so incredibly unbelievable! Why on Earth would Wallander agree to help a bunch of people who repeatedly refuse to tell him what's going on? How could he ever trust them. I'll stick to Brannagh's Wallander, thanks.
This is the first by Henning Mankell I read. It won't be the last. He creates a cutting edge tension based on an appreciation of real-to-life cold war interactions.
Wat een afschuwelijk boek was dit.
Ik heb het een aantal keer aan de kant willen gooien, maar ik ben daar heel slecht in, dus toch maar even doorgebeten.Dit boek was op verschillende vlakken vreselijk:1.
Het begint best interessant met een vlot waarop 2 dode mannen liggen, maar laat dat nou net een bijverhaal worden wat heel vlot ineens wordt afgeraffeld.
Eureka!, en hij denkt iets op te lossen.Ik heb na 75% gelezen te hebben een groot deel gescand van het verhaal.
Lijkt me een strak plan, maar voorlopig raak ik deel 3 even niet aan.
