https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/210852.Doctor_Dolittle_s_Caravan
Doctor Dolittle's Caravan (Doctor Dolittle, #6), Hugh Loftingتاریخ نخستین خوانش: سی ام نوامبر سال 2006 میلادیعنوان: داستانهای دکتر دولیتل - کاروان - جلد 7 از 12؛ شماره گذاری کتاب در گودریدز 6 است؛ نویسنده: هیو لافتینگ؛ مترجم: محمد قصاع؛ تهران، محراب قلم، 1385؛ در 242 ص، مصور؛ شابک: 9789643237370؛ موضوع: داستانهای مصور کودکان از نویسندگان انگلیس قرن 20 مداستان دکتر دولیتل، در هنگامه ی جنگ جهانگیر نخست و در سنگر نوشته شد.
هیو لافتینگ، به جای آنکه روایتگر لحظه های خون و آتش و فریاد باشد، قصه ی شاد و زیبای دکتر دولیتل را با شخصیتهایی همچو: دب دب (اردک)؛ و گب گب (خوک)؛ و پولینزیا (طوطی)؛ نقاشی کرد و برای دو فرزندش فرستاد.
داستان دکتر دولیتل پس از جنگ، به صورت کتاب منتشر شد.
Another in the classic Doctor Dolittle series. It's as charming as all the rest, but early on there's a story of a cat who stalks and kills a parrot. That story frightened my son a bit - not so much that he doesn't want to continue, but enought that he insisted on sleeping in our bed last night.Although that may just have been an excuse. :D
This was my favorite Dolittle book in the series as a kid, and re-reading it as a grown up did not change my feelings about it one bit.
As a kid, I don't think I knew anything about opera that wasn't in a Bugs Bunny cartoon; now that I know a little bit more, Lofting's wit and parody is pretty clever.
Setting a fantasy is recognizable time period is one of my favorite conceits, and Lofting plunks Dolittle's Caravan right in the middle of a very believable London of 1838 or 1839.
You don't have to be vegan to enjoy the book though it offers a variety of delights such as puns, tall stories, honorable good-guys that always win through and cuteness (eg the pelicans in their outfits).I remember as a child I always loved Gub-Gub and was irritated by Dab-Dab. I kind of see her point now, although I think she needs to step up and stop being such a stereotype as well!
Review… Doctor Doolittle's CaravanDoctor Doolittle's Caravan is a very interesting story; filled with many talking animals and many adventures John Doolittle helping the animals around him is only part of what makes it an extraordinarily interesting book.I am unsure as to how many books are in the set. But, I do enjoy the stories overall.
More fun adventures of the Doctor and his animal friends. Originally written in 1924, I read this a month or so ago but I can't remember anything that jumped out at me as objectional. Fans of the Freddy the Pig books by Walter R. Brooks might enjoy these stories as well.
Another bedtime success! Reading two chapters a night, the 7 year old was riveted and asked to go read before bed.
Its a great read once it gets going. If you see it around i recommend it for something relaxing.
Children's
feminist crap
