https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13707734-the-swerve
It is not by an unbroken succession of drinking bouts and of revelry, not by sexual lust, nor the enjoyment of fish and other delicacies of a luxurious table, which produce a pleasant life; it is sober reasoning, searching out the grounds of every choice and avoidance, and banishing those beliefs through which the greatest tumults take possession of the soul." ---EpicurusI haven't read a book in a long time that has introduced me to so many historical figures to admire.
The Anti-Climactic Swerve Greenblatt is a good story-teller and delivers good entertainment value here, but not much informative or educational value, except as an enticing short introductory to Lucretius, Bruno and Montaigne.As Greenblatt acknowledges, there is no single explanation for the emergence of the Renaissance and the release of the forces that have shaped our own world. Despite this awareness, he has tried to trace out The Swerve - “of how the world swerved in a new direction” by tel
Of course, these book-hunters deserve to be lionized for their sacrifice and great service, but they were pursuing an obsession and most of them never played with the ball tossed by the ideas they uncovered.To me the really exciting part of renaissance is what happened once these millennia old, forgotten, but radical ideas were injected into a culture that was held to the whip by militant power-hungry Christianity — liberating humanity from the crushing weight of being the center of the universe, the human mind from the chains of the fear of a future torment that is bound to follow any original thought (original = blasphemous).That is when the real alchemy happened - when different brilliant thinkers tried hard to reconcile their fervent theology to the irresistible intellectual and poetic force of the ancient arguments; when the few truly free thinkers found the best sort of patrons, the ancients, to support their cause; and when all these elements reacted against each other and created something new and wonderful - just like Lucretius’s reviled atoms.That is the truly exciting story.
My own country has a constant political tug of war between the people who want to run things with that whole “Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion.” part of the Constitution in mind while others think we should just throw that out and use the Bible as our rule book.We are a race of slow learners.Lucretius’s poem was apparently not only an extremely thorough explanation of Epicurean philosophy, it was also a well constructed and beautiful piece of writing that was almost lost to history.
This review has been revised and can now be seen at Shelf Inflicted (a Group Blog).Changed my life forever, did this book.
Christian ideals; and "The Way Things Are" which is an excellent breakdown of Lucretius's atheist manifesto.Unfortunately, these fascinating chapters filled with thoughts and ideas are interspersed with mind-numbingly boring chapters, which detail the intricacies of the lives of Poggio and Pope John XXIII.
I didn't care one bit.A tiny bit of interest came when Greenblatt discussed bookworms and how fragile books were, also how hard a person had to work to create a book back in the 13th century.
Greenblatt massively overstates Epicurean philosophy's significance in the ancient world and his bold claims for the influence of Lucretius' poem in the Renaissance are rarely supported by the evidence he presents to any sufficient degree.
And his claims Christianity somehow suppressed Lucretius' poem are undermined by his underplayed references to various medieval manuscripts of the poem (though these are often tucked away in footnotes).
For an institution trying to "destroy" this poem, the Medieval church sure went about it in a strange way.Greenblatt is an expert in literature rather than history, and it shows.
This book is great.It's a microhistory; that's a book that takes a little niche in history, and generally uses that niche to jump around and explore a bunch of different eras through a specific lens.
This book uses Lucretius' 50 BCE The Nature of Things as its lens, and it jumps from Roman times to the Renaissance.
It's a proto-atheist work, so it's important to me, and Greenblatt gave me a way into it; without his context, explanation and enthusiasm, it would have been much harder for me to understand what Lucretius was banging on about.If one judges a book, particularly a nonfiction one, by the number of marks one's made in it, this is a five-star book.
I also think 'The Swerve: How the Renaissance began' is frightfully oversold by its title and blurb.One of the world's most celebrated scholars, Stephen Greenblatt has crafted an innovative work of history and a thrilling story of discovery, in which one manuscript, plucked from a thousand years of neglect, changed the course of human thought and made possible the world as we know it....The copying and translation of this ancient book, the greatest discovery of the greatest book-hunter of his age, fuelled the Renaissance, inspiring artists such as Botticelli and thinkers such as Girodano Bruno; shaped the thought of Galileo and Freud, Darwin and Einstein; and had revolutionary influence on writers from Montaigne to Thomas Jefferson.I'm not arguing against the importance of the manuscript, Lucretius's poem On the Nature of Things, a discourse on Epicurean philosophy that includes some startling statements and insights.
The history covered by this book includes; (1) The contrast between Roman intellectual thinking and the relatively coarse Latin contained in Christian codexes, (2) The history and fate of ancient Greek and Roman public libraries including the famous library at Alexandria, Egypt, (3) The preoccupation of some of the famous early Christian leaders with suffering which contrasted with Epicurean philosophy, (4) The career of Poggio Bracciolini within the environment of endemic corruption of the Roman Catholic Church (it was the era of three Popes), (5) A summary description of the contents of De Rerum Natura ("On the Nature of Things") by Lucretius, and (6) the history of how later writers and thinkers of the Renaissance and Enlightenment responded to the long poem by Lucretius.
And I have a problem with titles which add, after the colon, some phrase of puffery.
This book would tell us How the World Became Modern.
I applaud it even as I refuse to sign on to the point of the thesis: that a long-hidden Greek poem, authored BC, accounts more or less for the scientific and philosophical world we now live in.
Another NYRB-Classic, with an introduction by Stephen Greenblatt.People are moved by what Lucretius wrote, what he imagined.
Your death is part of the order of the universe; it is part of the life of the world.
Please.I haven't managed to work out whether the brick wall I hit at the end of chapter eight was lying in wait for me because of my own lack of stamina or whether it had something to do with outside circumstances, or possibly the expectations set up by the sub-title.
How Poggio Found The Book was as exciting as a thriller, and the summary of Lucretius' On The Nature of Things was fascinating, but How The World Became Modern was a weaker brew, I thought, with little aroma.
So my schizophrenic response might have more to do with me than with the book.
Greenblatt's hero is Poggio Bracciolini, the Renaissance humanist who, in the early 15th century, rediscovered De rerum natura in a monastic library (Prof.
He is too honest to maintain that Poggio actually claimed to be an Epicurean, although if anyone ever echoed the ideas of Lucretius but discounted them in favor of Christianity, he generally claims they did so only to avoid persecution by the evil and all-powerful Church.
Greenblatt associates with Lucretius, was better accepted in the Catholic Church than in Protestant states, at least initially.
Fortunately, Stephen Greenblatt cannot take away my experience of reading Lucretius.
The book is mostly a sprawling biography of Poggio Bracciolini, an early 15th century Italian humanist, who among his peers recovered classical texts rotting away in German monasteries; as well as descriptions of life and intrigue in the Vatican court and Renaissance Italy.
Only a small portion is devoted to Lucretius himself (some of it unavoidably speculative because we have little concrete evidence of his life), and Greenblatt gives almost a bullet point summary of the poem (okay, a slight exaggeration).
Greenblatt weaves together the tale of the "book hunter" Poggio and his quest with the fall of Rome and the precarious survival of Greek and Roman texts in monasteries (where monk-scribes copied out the ancient manuscripts not necessarily as acts of intellectual engagement, as I had always assumed, but more often as acts of obedience, and a good thing too, since someone intellectually engaged, as Greenblatt points out, might have been more likely to change something in the process), their recovery by men like Poggio, and the blossoming of the Renaissance.
The Swerve is a romantic tale of a book lover, but it is so much more.
The war of beliefs that rages today is not new, but is merely a continuation of fear versus reason, and belief versus logic.
Reading The Swerve showed me that intolerance is not new, and we have not evolved.
Is fear truly the only way to advance our civilization?
Addendum: A belief system not addressed in The Swerve is a Republican/Conservative one that holds corporations at the same or higher regard as people.
This election is a battle between humanism and corporation-ists.
Et comme la politesse et la bienséance nous commandent de dissimuler notre déception face au peu d'estime qui est fait de notre goût, il ne reste plus qu'à faire bon visage, remercier, et lire promptement l'ouvrage pour ne pas donner l'impression que l'on se contente de payer de belles paroles les bons offices dont on a été l'objet.
Je connais plutôt bien les livres auxquels il fait référence, de Lucrèce, de Cicéron, et je pense à d'autre que l'auteur aurait pu ajouter, mais il faut bien borner son sujet.
On the one hand, it was an intriguing glimpse into the 15th-century searches for classical manuscripts via the discovery of Lucretius' poem De rerum natura by a relatively obscure papal secretary.
I'm not saying that the Dark Ages were a great time, but he focuses unrelentingly (and graphically) on the practice of corporal mortification to the exclusion of any other Church practices and doctrines.
Had it just been a straightforward book of popular history, even one that described the very real tensions between classical philosophies and the doctrines of the Catholic Church, I would have loved it.
This is an interesting book, primarily about the poem On the Nature of Things by Lucretius.
In the early 15th century, he discovered On the Nature of Things and re-copied and translated the poem.
Despite the fact that the poem was heretical to the Catholic Church, Bracciolini helped to distribute the poem, which gradually liberalized the philosophy of Western Civilization.
This is the most interesting part of the book, which describes the Church's reactions to the poem, and the Church's desperate attempts to suppress it.The Swerve also claims that the re-discovery of the poem helped to fuel the Renaissance, and had an influence on artists, scientists, philosophers and writers.
The second "story" is the central conceit of the book that the rediscovery of De rerum natura, played a significant role in changing the world from medieval to modern, and closely tied to it Greenblatt's personal atheistic and anti-Christian theology presented in a very condescending way in which the author assumes that his theology is synonymous with "rationality", though to this observer that seems a rather absurd and ill-founded presumption by Greenblatt.
Most of all I don't find Lucretius' poem particularly relevant to the modern world and IMO the author fails to make a compelling, or even credible case that it was.
The most complete statement of Epicureanism that has survived is a poem, ON THE NATURE OF THINGS, written by the Roman poet Lucretius.
THE SWERVE is Stephen Greenblatt's account of how ON THE NATURE OF THINGS was rescued from obscurity by Poggio Bracciolini, a Vatican bureaucrat with humanistic interests.
It's influence came from the beauty of Lucretius' poetry and the subversive nature of Epicurus' philosophy.
Lucretius called this 'the swerve' and it is the cause of all new things.
In THE SWERVE, he has written a sophisticated and enjoyable book treating Epicurus' philosophy, Lucretius' artistry and Bracciolini's triumphant discovery.

First, the title and subtitle suggest that the rediscovery of the manuscript of Lucretius' On the Nature of Things had a major influence on Renaissance thinking.
The misguided ideas about epicureanism, and the Catholic Church's opposition to them, predated the rediscovery of the Lucretius manuscript.
A lot of words about very little.If you haven't read Lucretius' work, he has a chapter which is basically an outline of the ideas found in The Nature of Things.
If you think Greenblatt is going to show you an influence of epicurean thinking you never knew about, don't bother with this book.
This book is OK overall, no more, and IS deserving of the criticism Greenblatt has gotten, for overstating his case and more.Greenblatt's good part is explaining how Poggio came across the book, his general hunting for books, what it was like to be an early Renaissance non-clerical humanist and similar things.The not so good is overstating his case, and getting some things wrong, incomplete or unexplained.First, the inventors of atomic theory, Democritus and Leucippus were pre-Epicurean and even pre-Socratic.
Nor does he mention that Greek philosophers in general were anti-empirical, and therefore antiscientific, as we know science today.
However beautifully told--and it is--I think the main thrust of Greenblatt's history, that the discovery in 1417 of Lucretius's long lost poem On the Nature of Things changed the course of history might be a little overstated.
We were going to arrive at who we are without Lucretius and I have reservations about saying the rediscovery of him and his philosophically enlightened poem by Bracciolini on the cusp of the Renaissance speeded up the acquiring of knowledge or helped beat back the tides of superstition which had covered the medieval world.
The book's magnificence lies in the portraits of the principals of the story Greenblatt tells, men like Poggio Bracciolini himself, Giordano Bruno, Galileo, and the various popes.
A collection of very interesting topics (search for books, outpouring of the Renaissance, the foundation of modern Humanism, the poem itself) which somehow does not hold up together.The poem itself is fascinating, but there is little reference to it in the Renaissance. It is not the 'tipping point' that Greenblatt describes, but one merely interesting atom of an incident out of many in the storm of the Renaissance.
In other words, we reduce a complex history to cartoon sketches: noble Rome; ignorant Middle Ages; religious Renaissance; until science gave us atomic theory and a way to live that doesn't require a God, people were pious, ignorant, and unquestioning.
The difference between historians and ourselves is that historians are familiar with the details, including the eddies and complexities that defy the cartoon."The Swerve" gives us a richer and cliche-defying view of history by looking at one moment: the rediscovery of the 1st century BC poem "On The Nature of Things" by Lucretius.
I just finished reading Lucretius, and having seen that this book has been widely read, I decided it would be fun to read a modern perspective on the poet.
But some speculative proposals were not the only problems with this book.First, the title is completely misleading.
Greenblatt spends part of one chapter discussing different aspects of the poem of which the "swerve" has only a small part.The subtitle, "How the World became Modern", is discussed in exactly the last 9% of the book (by Kindle measurements).
Others who were disappointed by this book can express the reasons far better than I could.
If you have no experience with the ancient philosophers, you might find this interesting.
If you have a mild interest in medieval or Renaissance history you may find this book interesting.
This isn't good storytelling.
He does a disservice to those who would like to learn about the medieval or renaissance world, and to those who'd like to learn about Lucretius.
When Greenblatt finally gets around to making his case for how Lucretius "made the world modern" the book is practically over and, frankly, he gives little support to his thesis.
In those days there weren’t a lot of bookstores and public libraries, so he went to monasteries where he was able to find and rescue from oblivion numerous copies of ancient Greek and Latin works from their libraries before the monks palimpsested them, scraped the letters off the vellum and reused it for Bibles and prayer books.
The Swerve is about Poggio’s discovery and the effect the revival of that book and others like it had on the late medieval world, leading to what we call the Renaissance.There are a lot of reasons to read this lengthy essay by Stephen Goldblatt, his limpid prose style for one and his short history of the decline of the Roman Empire for another.
I imagined ancient texts were found in much the same way anything else gets found, as in "Oh, by the way, I was going through storage looking for the Christmas decorations, and guess what I found: some poem by this dude Lucretius!"Imagine a world in which people stop caring about books.
Who knows how many ancient Tolstoys and Shakespeares have been lost to history.Turns out Lucretius was a pretty cool dude.
The poem, at once scientific and philosophical, ancient and astonishingly modern, helped to change our conception of the human experience.
