https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6969361-2-states
Chetan Bhagat, in my opinion, might not have read any good book in his life, except Mills and Boons. Now, he might be India's bestselling author, but he can never be a best writer, if he goes on writing this stuff. I never see any substance in his writing, no standard. If there is any in 5 Point Someone, it has been on the wane since then!Though I started reading this book, just to know how not to write, I hate myself for reading his books. Should read atleast 10 classics to exonerate myself from the guilt.
It was a like a girl in IIT hostel and a boy in the IIT hostel... much much like two states! What else can you do, Chetan?
The book is bad, the movie is not any better.
Don't watch the movie unless you crave some IIM A nostalgia, but honestly that is a pretty lame excuse too.
Instead take a peep here for more North-South action: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show....
Chetan Bhagat makes a statement in one of the dialogues about his writing ambitions: "to write stories about ordinary people, to not be preachy, and to let the stories be the heroes instead of the characters." He succeeds in one thing: the characters are zombies.Here is a quick sample of the scintillating prose:>>Click here for a better resolution picture>>
Long back when I read Chetan's 5 pt Someone, I liked it, as in it was a fresh perspective touching the educated youth of today - it wasn't movie stuff but definitely a piece of my life or those around me.
Now the 4th Book - 2 States is actually so typical, there have been 100s of movies made already, the situations and characters are most predictable and shallow.
But when I started reading it - even though our life had its quota of dramatic situations & characters, especially with me the drama queen being a part of it - the book seemed so far from reality.
Chetan Bhagat is one of the most-beloved Indian authors writing in English, but as everywhere, the best-loved isn't always the best literature.
Some of my problems with the narrator could stem from the different cultural background, but mostly I felt like "Oh wow, how can a person earn so much money by writing such everyday stuff without any new revelations at all?" I'm not too sure I'll finish this at the moment as I don't even have the feeling to learn anything more about India and its people than from watching some Bollywood filmi, and they are at least good entertainment with their singing and dancing mummies, soldiers and beauty queens.
There are two types of fiction books written by Indian authors - 1.
These moments are few and not enough to save Bhagat from falling into the Bollywood screenplay trap, as he usually does.
The final scene of the book plays out like a standard 1990s B grade Bollywood movie - pretty girl saves the day, everyone loves her.
After having recently watched Kai Po Che, I'd have to say Bhagat is probably better suited to screenplay than books.
I can see why he fell in love with her and chose to write this book about their marriage.
For ppl who are not aware of the Indian Marriage system it might be Informative but at the same time lil awkward since yo may not relate to Most of the things said in the Book.And there are few things which cud have been given a Backspace - e.g The bad words used by the Auto wala.
Above all, this is most certainly not meant for I-am-a-Punju-and-I-rock or the I-am-Tam-Brahm-and-we-are-the-best-there-can-be.This is a book for those looking for some entertainment; those who can laugh at themselves; those who can derive amusement from minor observations made by the author; ones who can understand that the author is stretching the truth here and there….and enjoy the story, nevertheless.(For those who came in late) This is the fourth novel by Chetan Bhagat, who has virtually created a new genre of novels and authors in the Indian scene.This is the love story of Krish (a Punju from Delhi) and Ananya (a Tamil Iyer from Chennai).
It looks like I'm forced to give the book a rating to write a review for it.
Well I found I had a few hours to kill one day while at a relative's place and the only book there was this one so I went ahead and read it.
After having read five point someone, my better sense warned me with vehemence to avoid this book like the plague.
I realize now that I'll never get back those hours of my life I spent reading this book.
A typical bollywood love story. Both the lovers are from different states, hence the title "2 states" and their families are very traditional and narrow minded, not to mention stereotypical.It had a lot of humour, though sometimes it felt as if the writer was trying too hard to be funny. Also, if you are a south indian and get easily offended, you might not want to read this book. Overall it was pretty good and a light read !
But Ananya was a breath of fresh air, she's the kind of girl you root for, warm,pretty and with a lot of quirks; maybe it due to the fact that she is based on his real life partner and thus Ananya's character doesnt seem like a cardboard cutout.
I have concluded that Mr. Bhagat cannot construct fictional characters even if his life depended upon it.
My advice to him would be to write books drawing from his own experiences ( as five point someone also based on his real life and 2 states are his only decent books I have read so far.
Many people will certainly think before reading a Chetan Bhagat novel for sure,but this book is definately a quick read & enjoyable too.The plot is basically Punjbi-Tamilian warfront.Bollywood masala is the flavour for the book but still enjoyable.Krish(Punjabi by birth) and Ananya (Tamilian) both fall fo each other while completing their MBA from IIM-A.
Some moments can really leave you giggling and smiling for sure.
Do read atlest once.Enjoy Reading:)
The mood and the situation we are in while reading certain novels could have a significant influence on how much we like them-especially on the ones we complete in one or two sittings. Just like how some average movies get stuck in our memory: the ones we watched with friends bunking classes or the first movie with the love.Two States is one such novel.
I could strongly and closely relate to routine incidents as in how the miss of ghee in a dal can cause fury, the lavish fat ceremonies, the expectations from children and last but not the least - the naming conventions used.
The incidents have been truely narrated in an amusing manner.
This book revolves around Ananya and Krish, the two central characters.
The story unfolds in the expected fashion as eventually both get consent and acceptance from their respective families.
It is not a book to embrace lessons from, neither it is an insightful read.
But, surely it is a delightful and amusing read.
I don't have anything too good to say about Chetan Bhagat's writing. It often reads like someone is trying to be too cool and using English slang to appear hip and young.But this book somehow, despite all the author's usual misgivings, appealed to me. I would quite honestly, read it again given a chance. It is that cute. And the romance? I swear, I tingled sometimes. Can you imagine? Tingling! Huh. It was a novel experience 5 years back. It still is.
Love is a temporary madness. However in case of Mr. Bhagat it leads to severe psychosis with sprinkles of idiocy. The man thinks he is a NOVELIST. HELP!!!! Where’s my fucking Prozac!!!
In Chetan's stories he always invariably describes the love stories in some lighter vein and he always ends up making them have sex (though in this book he started it with that).
Why can't he, for a minute, actually put on his 'youngster cap' and try describing the love exactly as he would have felt back then.
Even when describing something in first person, you can actually put forth a lot of substance esp reg the first person's interpretation of each and every gesture of his/her loved ones.
This time he stepped up the maturity level a bit and is actually talking of ending the love in a marriage.

In India, its not just sufficient for the boy and the girl to fall in love.
This book'll tell you that far more essential than that is for the girl's family to fall in love with the boy's family.
The book is hilarious and true to its name.
It does depict an India which is as divided by states, castes, culture and language barriers as it is united.
At several places in the novel, the quality of the prose falls to below the level of expectation but I think if the reader can overlook that, the book in itself is a very good read.
It was good. Actually relatable and so many funny moments.
Anyway, I finally decided to read it till the end.Now, to tell you what is wrong with the book is very difficult because there are so many things that I would probably exceed the word limit of my review.
When I usually read books with bad grammar that would mostly likely be the low point of the book.
But this book is an exception since the story totally took the prize.
However, the worst part of the book was this: I have no idea how they fell in love with each other.
I don't know why they fell in love with each other.
This is one of the most popular authors of India and this is his most popular book.
Nowadays his writing has deteriorated too much, but this is a book Chetan Bhagat wrote in his golden days.
This book tried to break stereotypes: inter-caste marriage, feminism, etc.But for every stereotype this book tries to break, it ends up reinforcing two more: Sex is all men live for.
For e.g. Krish looking at the house of the girl his mother wants to set him up with and almost thinking that he should marry her for the money.Apart from this, the book read like a Bollywood script at times.
I'm pretty proud of myself for finishing this book.
There was a lot of potential with this book - it is a subject that is extremely relevant in Indian society today.
First, there was so little character development, I couldn't understand any of the character's motives.
The only thing I could understand about her was that she was annoying as hell.
I understand being critical of certain things about a culture, but one does not need to be outright rude.
I didn't feel a single thing for the main characters and the end of the novel, and was just happy it was over.
For not reading it second time.This is the best romantic book I have read til date.
One can find a breeze of romance through out the book.
I have an opinion on Chetan Bhagat(after reading his earlier works) that his books starts slowly, gathers pace in the middle and fails miserably at the end.
It goes with a steady pace and ends well too.
The way she was described exactly matched with the way I pictured a perfect naughty girl in my mind.May be because the story is his true story, the author was successful in carrying the feel through out the book.
I love it. Can't wait to watch the movie. It's simple yet interesting. And hats off to Mr. Chetan Bhagat for his wonderful ability to pull many things through a great sarcastic writing style.This is probably my most favorite book written by him :)
This conflict, perhaps valid only in India, makes the story work.Yes, having been a Chetan Bhagat hater for almost a year and a half now, I must hate myself for saying that I liked this book a lot.
While ON@CC is the one I won’t like to discuss here as it makes me want to throw up every time I think of it, FPS is the novel that I would remember CB for all times to come as it was the first book I read by him.FPS did suck a little in the middle at some parts, but 2 States definitely has a nice flow and grips you until the end.
I love his stories.
The adorable story of Krish and Ananya enthralled me to the utmost.
But still a beautiful story won't be beautiful without a little intensity and tears.
I absolutely adore how Ananya and Krish shielded their love from racism, deceptive culture and spiteful beliefs of the society.I honestly dislike Krish' mother more than anyone.
nevertheless there are times when they won't fathom what we want.
Because if you forsake your contentment to chose something just because it's the right choice or to satisfy someone else, then you wouldn't even make an effort to adore or safeguard whatever you've earned.
As far as I remember, I started reading novels from this book. And as I'm fond of novels and overall reading habit right now, I guess I really liked the book and it triggered my reading appetite. After that I read plenty and now, I'm not sure if I go again to this story, I'll like it the way I had a few years ago. Still I feel this is one of the best romantic stories in Indian context. Although a bit exaggerated, it peeps into IIM life, North-South rivalry and overall inter-state love hurdles. A decent read.
I never intended to read this book based on author's semi-autobiographical love story of two persons from different Indian cultures--Punjabis Vs Tamilians. Though the poster conveying the storyline evoked my anticipation, I'm still not sure about reading it.
Just another melodramatic story of Love, Sex & Emotions by very same so called IIT-IIM chimpanzee Oops I mean champ...!
