https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13518096-hierarchy-of-needs
Finally read this important book on the foundational aspects of motivation - foundational concepts that apply across a broad spectrum of human behavior.
Maslow's theory on human motivation is a must read for everyone. It properly frames your understanding of the human needs and wants. Armed with this knowledge, you can better understand yourself and improve on your relationship with others.
interesting
Absolutely fascinating. Surprisingly readable for an academic paper (and a quick read at that--32 pages or so). Describes the hierarchy of needs by which humans start with base needs and move towards more and more lofty goals, getting less and less accomplished in each.
Nice :)
I love Maslow.
This very quick read (a couple of hours at my snail's pace) lays out Abraham Maslow's famous hierarchy of needs, providing an elegant and concise concept that explains prerequisites (food, shelter, safety) that must be fulfilled before higher order pursuits (self confidence, self worth, self actualization) become concerns. Maslow's concept of self-actualization is particularly intriguing, but maddeningly vague at the same time; this is likely a necessary consequence of the fact that it will be different for each individual.A very instructive read.
It's a fascinating paper about how humans are driven by certain sets of interconnected multilevel goals. The conclusion at the last pre-last paragraph is worth noting.
Good to finally read the paper in its entirety. Turns out I disagree with him much less than I thought.
Very insightful
Really enjoyed this little read. I’d heard of ‘Maslow’s hierarchy of needs’ of course, but this was the first time reading the original material. Liked the long list of times where this theory DIDNT hold up, too.
A Word From The EditorMaslow's Humanist philosophy concerning motivation, self-fulfillment and the realization of potential are among the most frequently cited and discussed within psychology textbooks.
A true psychology classic - A Theory of Human Motivation by Abraham H.
A detailed, well written text-book description is fine to a point, but there is absolutely no substitute for understanding and engaging with the issues under review than by reading the authors unabridged ideas, thoughts and findings in their entirety.In A Theory of Human Motivation Maslow draws upon some of his earlier published work.
The guy had an IQ of 195, which alone makes him at least worth checking out.This is the 'pyramind of needs' paper that every high schooler learns about, but there always seems to be a new gem to find in reading it again.This time, it was this: We know that when you satisfy your lower needs like hunger, higher needs like love, esteem, etc.
Conversely, you'd be shooting yourself in the foot in a really silly way if you let your lower needs go unmet because those needs, which are easy to meet, will then distract you from your higher ones.
Instead, just get what you need so you can move forward with your higher needs, like creation and contribution and actualization.
Perhaps my expectations were too high, or I picked up the wrong edition. In the version I read, Maslow presents the theory as more or less an assertion without much support, making it difficult to buy in on more than faith.Paradoxically, the most interesting part of the work for me was the idea that not all of our behavior is motivated, per se, and may be simply stimulus driven and/or reflex induced.
Despite layers of nuance having been added in the subsequent years. Maslow's hierarchy of needs remains a touchstone for anyone working in the fields of motivation or broader psychology. This short defence of the broad theory is worth reading, if for no other reason, as it shows that Maslow was far from being dogmatic in his division between the motivational layers within people and did not see his theory as being categorical nor intended to cover all contingencies. This useful clarification is partly why the principles are so useful today and why the argument is so robust. Recommended.
Fascinating psychological analysis of human needs and motivation.وخلاصة الدراسة حسب فهمي هي انه هناك خمس مجموعات من الأهداف التي يمكن أن نسميها الاحتياجات الانسانية الأساسية. هذه الاحتياجات الاساسية باختصار هي الاحتياجات الفسيولوجية، والسلامة، والحب، واحترام النفس، وتحقيق الذات. وكلما حقق الانسان من هذه الاحتياجات ترى اثر ذلك الإيجابي على صحته النفسية وكلما انحرم من اي من هذه الاحتياجات ترى اثر ذلك السلبي على صحته النفسية.
What are the basic needs of the individual and what is the hierarchy of human motivation. The book deals with the theory and data regarding the hierarchical needs one has in order to feel safe and motivated. Starting from physiological needs to self actualization the authority describes the whole spectrum of the motivated psyche.
It is very short to be called a book. Actually, it is an academic paper which is easy to read even for non-psychology students. Explains why we do what we do in a very powerful way. It uncovers - layer by layer - the motivations behind all the desires in our life. A slightly difficult read but worth the effort!
This book is a brief, which is nice. It describes self-actualization - an expression frequently thrown around in popular culture without ever being defined. While interesting, I didn't find this book relevant to clinical practice.
All of the usual questions people have on the hierarchy of needs are well answered in the book. The disconnect between needs and behaviour, the relationship between an action and a need, whether needs are sequential - all of these are explained clearly.
That is to say, the appearance of one need usually rests on the prior satisfaction of another, more pre-potent need.
Also no need or drive can be treated as if it were isolated or discrete; every drive is related to the state of satisfaction or dissatisfaction of other drives.Another indication of the child’s need for safety is his preference for some kind of undisrupted routine or rhythm.
Perhaps one could express this more accurately by saying that the child needs an organized world rather than an unorganized or unstructured one.The specific form that these needs will take will of course vary greatly from person to person.
I Finally read it, I highly suggest to read it, has a powerful-useful content, its really important to know what moves us in our daily basis, what motivates us and understand our reactions in the various conditions to accomplish our basic satisfaction or needs.With this book, you will know what are you trying to do with your life at this exact moment, recognize your needs and put them in order to be more effective.
The paper gives you things to think about, whether they are scientifically supported or not, when dealing with others as well as yourself.
A powerful theory for understanding yourself better.
Good Book!
Good A little outdated but relevant, makes sense what provokes and drives different social structures, how individuals act, works with transactional analysis
Very Good Book. Very much. a book all shall read to understand each other.
Basic review of Maslow and his key points. Solid explanation that could be built upon and expanded. Overall a good, easy read for anyone wanting an introduction to Maslow.
It has changed my perspective on the world.
A must read for anyone interested in the field of psychology, but also broadly among students of any field of social behaviorism.
I read this now years after my studies and couldn’t imagine how massive read it actually would be despite its minor quantity.
A work with character and without complexion, but Maslow is very direct and doesn’t leave time for reflection.
A fast ongoing read and somewhat difficult to grip.
He generously proceeds to throw theories on the reader.
If I hadn’t read about Maslow and Theory of Human Motivation in my studies, trough secondary sources, I would certainly have had difficulties to apprehend the main articles.
