https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/858000.The_N_Plays_of_Japan
Though, of course, Noh grew out of earlier forms of theater and performance, it attained its unique and traditional form in the fourteenth century due largely to the efforts of a father and son team, Kiyotsugu Kwanami (or Kanami) (1333-1384) and Motokiyo Zeami (or Seami or Kanze) (1363-1443/4).
Though the occasional woman was a Noh actor in the far past, all roles have been performed by men for a very long time (some of the troupes are relaxing this somewhat, but the actresses must learn to play the women's roles "with the strength of a man").
I found this very flat after enjoying Royall Tyler's No translations so much. Waley omits a lot of the text claiming it's of no interest or too arcane for a Western reader.
I'm fairly sure human sacrifice was being used allegorically in the play and it wasn't practised in Japanese Buddhism (wouldn't it be news if it was otherwise?) Nevertheless, the necessity of accepting one's sacrifice to an ancient tradition was an interesting thing to note in terms of the Japanese mind, especially considering these plays are not directly connected to Bushido and Zen. The mental conditioning that inflicted Kamikaze on the world has been going on a long time.It's an old book, out of copyright.
how could anyone rate this less than five stars? not only are these riveting and dramatic, the stories are exactly what people watch and write in today's hollywood and video games! stories never change, because they are new to each generation. will especially help if you are a writer, but are engrossing just for fun.i liked seeing what has endured, a great situation and beautiful turn of phrase will be repeated for thousands of years.
One should have in one's repertory a stock of such pieces and be ready to vary them according to the character of one's audience.IMITATION (Monomane)The appearance of old age will often be best given by making all movements a little late, so that they come just after the musical beat.
While the inn-servant is heating up the millet, the young man dozes on the pillow and dreams that he enters public life, is promoted, degraded, recalled to office, endures the hardship of distant campaigns, is accused of treason, condemned to death, saved at the last moment and finally dies at a great old age.
A tremendous collection of sublime plays from the Noh tradition. I couldn't stop reading this book.
In the meantime, comparatively speaking, his first page of ‘Kantan’ would be presented as follows:KANTANCHARACTERS: JiroKiku(Dream Personages):	The BeautyDancersGentlemenPrivate SecretaryCelebrated PhysicianDoctorsFemale Employee(Before the curtain.)Kiku(Her voice is heard from offstage.) It’s so wonderful you’ve come.
Jiro(also offstage) It’s been ten years, hasn’t it, Kiku?KikuYou’ve grown so big.
79-81)The following extract is from “The No Plays of Japan”:KANTANPersonsHostess.Rosei.Envoy.Two Litter Bearers.Boy Dancer.Two Courtiers.Chorus.Hostess.I who now stand before you am a woman of the village of Kantan in China.
Besides the introduction and notes on Buddhism (found both interesting), I read only the first play, Atsumori, and did not continue. I think the translation is slightly awkward--it feels disjointed and too literal. Arthur Waley -for the most part- kept the play in verse as it is in its original form. I found more natural translations of Atsumori on different websites so I think I'll stick to those as I read more Noh plays.
this review refers to the grove edition of the book not the crappy dover one ewww
I thought this would be more explanatory and break the plays down but it's only the raw plays. Read a few, then put the book down.
