https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12570.A_Confederate_General_from_Big_Sur_Dreaming_of_Babylon_The_Hawkline_Monster
RE: A Confederate General from Big Sur. A totally entertaining comic novel, about a couple of Beat-era wastrels in Northern California.
It's weird and savage, a truly original work of genre fiction, sort of a sci-fi True Grit, about two murderers who get hired by two sisters to kill a monster their professor father had created in their laboratory.
I liked it, and its influence is clear (Sister's Brothers, lots of other books, I'm looking at you) but for my money Brautigan's genre pastiche is less entertaining then the raw humor of his prose.
Not surprisingly I enjoyed Confederate more than this or Babylon.
I started reading the Hawkline Monster first because of the raving of a friend.
This novel takes a long time to get to the Hawkline Monster, plot-wise, but the journey there is one of the reasons that makes Brautigan so much fun to read.After finishing Hawkline I proceeded to Dreaming of Babylon the middle book.
Putting crazy people in crazy situations is a good formula for Brautgan to use.The last story was my least favorite of the three but at times one of my favorites.
If I were you I would read this book.
After years of reading just Sombrero Fallout and some shorter stories I found in anthologies (from Rebel Inc, I believe), my in-laws gave me this as a birthday present.A Confederate General is an interesting debut, it is full out potential and (to paraphrase the blurb) a 'preview of things to come'.
The second novel, Dreaming of Babylon, coming in twelve years after A Confederate General, yet there is that unmistakeable style that links the two.
Again the style is linked to the other novels but is also somehow different (bit like John Peel's description of The Fall: "always different, always the same"), but this time with some very unique twists.
Re-reading these stories some 40 years after the first time I read them was like a voyage into a time capsule - and a very specific one at that.
The women all want to "be layed" all the time (as if).
A lot of it could never be written today, but most of it could, and would still be fantastic.Brautigan writes like a casual poet, tossing out fun and silly metaphors at ease and for the heck of it.
He's at the cusp of a magical realism that has only recently become Americanized, both ahead of his time as well as an integral part of it.Got a frog problem?
This book is special in my heart. the love of my life read this book to me page by page every night before bed. it was the first full book he read me, and I will never forget it. It is a wonderfully whimsical read. and the characters are full of life.I love this book for so many reasons
。A Confederate General from Big Sur ****。Dreaming of Babylon ***。The Hawkline Monster ****
A friend who knew I had only two of Brautigan's novels to read leant me this.
The two novels were Dreaming of Babylon and The Hawkline Monster.I began with Dreaming of Babylon.
Had this been the first Brautigan I had read then I would have raved about it but I know he can do better.
Not as good as The Abortion or Howard and his Bowling Trophies but a nice way to complete reading all of Brautigan.
Nothing Brautigan has written is not worth reading but there are gems in his collection but I suspect that these three are more semi-precious than out-and-out rubies and diamonds.
(I rated it 4/5).I was then given this three volume edition by fabulist, Rhys Hughes, and took no time in reading the remaining novels.Dreaming Of Babylon follows the adventures of noir detective C.
I thoroughly enjoyed this, probably because I enjoy an off-the-wall noir, and thought it better than Big Sur in coherence.
I loved it: 5/5All three books benefit from their extremely short chapters - most no more than a page in length - which keep the action running, but also allow time for asides and diversions which are brief enough to entertain but not long enough to undermine the plot.
So I will break them into three parts.A CONFEDERATE GENERAL FROM BIG SUR was kind of a fun hippy ride into Brautigans imagination.
Like his mind would say, "What this story needs is people with alligators in the trunk of their car" and then he would add them without further consideration.
Probably the funnest of the three stories.DREAMING OF BABYLON was my least favorite in the collection because it was this kind of gum shoe kind of private eye kind of a thing that I'm not too big on.
It had some really great parts but I grew tired of the character constantly interupting the story in order to slip into his dream land.
However, when I cam across his name I made a point of thinking I need to read some of his works..So i went to the library and got this anthology of three of his novels.
The library didn't have either of these checked in though.I really enjoyed the first novel A Confederate General from Big Sur. The other two were good with The Hawkline Monster: A Gothic Western being my second favorite of the three.
A Confederate General from Big Sur, helped me to realize that one doesn't need drugs/alcohol to be zany or lead an interesting life.
I think he must have been read by or influenced/inspired Tom Robbins.

Three short novels.California drifter Jesse tells about his friend Lee Melon, descended from a Confederate general and living in a sawed-off shack in Big Sur where the frogs drive him crazy at night.Washed-up private eye C. Card wears mismatching socks and day-dreams about the hanging gardens and his new Babylonian hero Smith Smith.Hired guns Cameron and Greer head off into the deserts of Eastern Oregon to see what they can do about the monster spawned from Prof. Hawkline’s “chemicals.”Spot-on detail, humor, hits of pathos.
Brautigan was one of the authors I discovered by reading Patton Oswalt's autobio, and man, I'm glad I did. He's got this real minimalist humor that was hilarious to read. The rating doesn't really reflect what I thought though, since it's actually 3 books in one ominbus ... I would rank them like this:A Confederate General From Big Sur - 3 StarsDreaming of Babylon - 5 Stars, and probably my favorite of the 3The Hawkline Monster - 5 Stars, and one of those mindtrips of a story
We had a cottage that was a hut like that well a few steps up from it as all of the walls were intact and the same heightish but no water no electric nothing but love and fun and I want it back. There's a lot that can happen when there's nothing to do and those frogs are just every problem you ever tried to solve and those root digging Hopis were inspirational.
Delightful Brautigan short novels. I recommend Richard Brautigan to people who don't like to read or speak English as a second language. He was a poetic prose master.
Pretty much my favorite thing ever.
Like a Cat, Out Went SadnessRichard Brautigan, the great American poet and sometime novelist, was already as old in 1963, when I was born, as I was in 1992, when I belatedly found out about his death. And now... as I write and rewrite this review, I am just as old as he was when he chose to opt out of his life.I wish he were still alive. He'd be twice as old as I am, give or take, and probably still at least twice as wise. But his special dreaming vision didn't keep him from killing himself, fr
This volume collects three other works, though, spread throughout Brautigan's career—A Confederate General from Big Sur, from 1965, is his first novel; Dreaming of Babylon is from 1977; and The Hawkline Monster came in between, in 1974.A Confederate General from Big Sur (read 7/13/2012)"I went downtown to see three movies in a Market Street flea palace.
"Nobody does it better ..." sang from the slot machine of Lee Mellon's soul. I turned and looked away like an passenger train without tracks.There was peace in the valley. The Confederate General looked out towards the Pacific Ocean.
these stories just ooze hippie goofballery.
No doubt about it, Brautigan is a light weight, fun read.
It isn't his best and falls far short of the pinnacle of his literary work, Trout Fishing In America.
I'd give it at 2-star rating at best.Dreaming of Babylon is a whole 'nuther story.
Wildly original and entertaining, it is an incongruously upbeat first-person telling of a down-on-his-luck P.I. who has a penchance for day dreaming about Babylon, to the detriment of his work ethic and social relationships.
It's defintely a fun, light hearted read, worthy of 4-stars.
I haven't yet begun the final story in this collection, The Hawkline Monster.
Decided not to read The Hawkline Monster at this time...
I received this book as a gift from my buddy Bartels, and despite it's heft, it's a quick read.
The first (Confederate General) is like a bad Kerouac novel (Brautigan's bio in the back of this book refers to him as "the last of the Beats", so maybe that makes sense).
Skip it and read the real Big Sur.The other two have a similar tone, they're basically send-ups of the mystery/private eye genre and a Western, if those books had dialogue written by Jack Handey.
That individual book I would rate five stars; it's good enough to bring the collection up to ****.
Note: I am marking this as read because it is the only "Dreaming of Babylon" title that comes up in Goodreads.
Lately, I have been on a Brautigan kick, starting with "A Confederate General in Big Sur," then to "In Watermelon Sugar" and most recently, "Dreaming of Babylon." Surprisingly, "Dreaming of Babylon" was by far my favorite.
It made me laugh out loud many times and I just really got a kick out of the silly situations and characters in it.
Definitely a fin, quick read that I would recommend.
Published in 1964, the book reads like a memoir written by a Jack Kerouac buddy who occasionally runs into Henry Miller (who is spotted once).
It’s a poignant plunge into an emerging counter-culture, one divorced from the nascent civil rights struggles of the late fifties and early sixties.
There is not much of a plot, although we learn quite a bit about the two principal characters, Lee, and the narrator Jessee, as they meander from San Francisco down to Big Sur. There are references to a Confederate general scattered along the way, in some chapters, forming a fanciful historical subtext to the contemporary story.
It only gets four stars because Dreaming of Babylon and The Hawkline Monster were the cinderblocks tied to the ankles of the angel that is Confederate General from Big Sur. I'm not sure why Brautigan felt compelled -- near the end -- to write genre pieces. They turn out to be written out like ironic TV dramas or something. But in his early stuff (i.e. confederate general, troutfishing, etc.) he's so sweet, just turning on and blinking at everything and loving it and watching it all swim around in his mind. 5 stars for that!
What can I say, Richard Brautigan is a genius. The Hawkline Monster is by far my favorite one of his books. The ridiculousness of the plot and mysterious chemicals gets me every time. As for the other books, I've read them but the library copy of Dreaming of Babylon was missing 2 pages. I still greatly enjoyed it. I would recommend it to any Brautigan fan. I read A Confederate General from Big Sur years ago and I don't remember much of it but it didn't impress me so much as Brautigan's other works.
"The world needs dreamers"...A friend of mine just borrowed & returned this book to me. It contains my all-time favorite Richard Brautigan story and one of my favorite novels of all time, "Dreaming of Babylon." It is the story an inept, daydreaming detective who thinks the best thing that ever happened to him was breaking both of his legs, because he could spend all his time in the hospital in his fantasy world of Babylon, with no distractions.
Confederate General from Bid Sur was the best of the three by a long shot. The other two seemed too gimicky (even from Brautigan) for me. Compared to the other two "Three-Brautigan's-in-one" I read, this one was by far the weakest. I'd give this a two, but A Confederate General from Big Sur was superb.
Brautigan is for re-reading. Not just for the loving way - there is no better phrase for it - he creates and enjoys his characters. Not for the bizarre and yet somehow perfectly natural settings in which those people live. Or for the mad problems they make for themselves. But for the sheer over-sized joy of being alive in a place Richard Brautigan has created.
I was not a big fan of the first story, "A Confederate General from Big Sur". The plot was kind of aimless. I did, however, somewhat enjoy the other two novellas; "the Hawkline Monster" being the best of the three. Brautigan's style seems cribbed from Kurt Vonnegut. Only Vonnegut did it much better.
Not as great as Trout Fishing in America, but A Confederate General in Big Sur is Brautigan's first novel. The message is a but more raw and his characters are slightly more heavy handed, but all the trappings of art and beauty shine through. The ending of this story is the stuff that makes quantum physics students take up poetry.
