https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16384.Spring_Fever
Mike Cardinal wants to marry Terry Cobbold, Shorty's daughter, but she thinks he's too good-looking and a player.
Throw in a valuable postage stamp, imposters, mistaken identity, broken engagements, and a domineering daughter and watch the chaos ensue...I've been feeling crabby and directionless lately so I picked up a P.G. Wodehouse novel and started reading a couple days ago.
While I'm still somewhat crabby and directionless, I'm also working a lot of 1930's British slang into my regular routine.
While he's worked from the same plot for nearly all of his books, it's always a pleasure to see what new wrinkles he adds to the old situations.
After Joan Didion (I'm resistant to her) and "Democracy," at last : a serious novel.
But never mind, it had to be a difficult marriage as John Gregory vaporized....(they both had a hideous time writing a moderne "Star is Born" for mentl Streisand..need one say mo?; yes, they were pd a fortune) -- You cant drive away your mentls today on LA freeways ("Play It As...").
Let's pretend: Bea Lillie as the autocratic Lady Adela who rules dada (Lord Shortlands played x Victor Moore), who has special fondness for daughter Terry (Gertie Lawrence)...while she diddles and teases two beaux (William Gaxton and Clifton Webb).
It makes em special.
Hence I call this nonsense ..
serious...while the seriously dour Joan Didion is always nonsense.
:) A legtöbb könyvének gyakorlatilag szinte ugyanaz az alaptörténete, és itt sincs ez másként, szokás szerint egy vidéki kastélyban játszódik a történet, szokás szerint románcok szövődnek, és szokás szerint mindenki félreért mindenkit, és persze szokás szerint működik a bevált recept!Külön pozitívum, hogy ebben a könyvben nincs túlzottan idióta szereplő, és minden karakternek megvan a maga bája, még a megtért bűnözőnek is...
Még az elég nehezen fordítható nyelvi poénokba se tört bele a fordító bicskája, pedig azzal nem lehetett könnyű megbirkózni...
What a large pile of light comedic reading this man left behind him...and he never fails to bring the reader enjoyment.In this novel, he gives us a leading lady who has to be convinced to love a rich, extremely good looking suitor, a snooping burglaratorious butler, an ex-footballer in love with a Hollywood movie star, a frustrated Earl who wishes to marry the cook, his censorious daughter who keeps him in rigid line...and of course, mix-ups and barmy plans to bring everything to a satisfactory conclusion run rampant throughout.Wodehouse provides the occasional laugh out loud remark and general enjoyment throughout.
Theirs was a great racket while it lasted, but the boom days are over.’ So says Wodehouse of Lord Shortlands living out of the carefully measured pocket of his daughter Lady Adela.
If only he could raise two hundred pounds as down payment on a pub he could elope with his cook.Lord Shortlands plan is complicated by the butler competing for the affections of the cook, Stanwood Cobbold and his ex-burglar valet, August Robb and the on-off engagement of daughter Teresa to Mike Cardinal.Lord Shortlands other daughter Clare is also engaged to Cosmo Blair an artist of some repute, ‘Don’t call him a pot-bellied perisher!’, ‘Well, what else can you call him?’ asked Lord Shortlands, like Roget trying to collect material for his Thesaurus.
Not good time for Earls but good times for readers of Wodehouse’s patented brand of comic novelette.
Another well written story featuring rich Americans at large in an English stately home. The impecunious owner of the stately home in question, Lord Shortlands, is a terrific character and it's odd that he doesn't appear in any other Wodehouse stories. The conniving butler, Spinks, adds a touch of the sinister usually reserved for private detectives and writers of vers libre.
I shouldn't review any Wodehouse, for the simple reason that I am a Wodehouse harlot: any Wodehouse, anywhere, any time. That said, I enjoyed this lesser-known PGW novel. The characters were well-drawn and the plot typically complicated and hilarious.
Not quite Uncle Fred(my personal favorite). Not with the 'charm' of a Blandings or Jeeves,but still it is the master at his finest. Laugh out loud funny in many places. Good book.
In one of Mr. Wodehouse's books he points his finger at a critic who complained of his previous volume that it "was all the same old Wodehouse characters with different names".
We have the poor but noble Teresa Cobbold and her distant relation the wealthy American Stanwood Cobbold, the up-and-coming Hollywood agent Mike Cardinal, the beloved star of the silver screen Eileen Stoker, the somewhat dotty Earl of Shortlands (Shorty to his friends), father of Teresa but also to the overbearing Adela who is as frightful as any aunt.
'So you used to be a burglar, used you?' says Mr. Cardinal, day before yesterday it was...
How nice to have an unread Wodehouse available when the mood strucks.
Actually, the mood was triggered by two(!) guys I heard on the radio yesterday pronouncing the guy's name incorrectly.
The times we live in...So we have a case of assumed identities, Butlers and a Lord, rich American guy, and his son.
How do you react, when the Butler just tells you, that you are not the man you pretend to be?
If you are a Wodehouse character, you say: "This opens a new line of thought".
And you do not think that this or that is the case but you "hazard a conjecture".
Много освежаващо, забавно и английско, Удхаус е удоволствие, повърхностно, но приятно. Мързеливи пролетни трески.Very refreshing, amusing and english, Wodehouse is a pleasure, surfice-level, but pleasant. Lazy spring fevers.
I've loved all of the Wodehouse that I've read so far; but, I really, really, really loved this one, great story and great storytelling. Retreating into the world of Wodehouse is the ultimate escape.
Read for Book Riot 2017 Read Harder Challenge: Read a book published between 1900 and 1950.I don't think this type of humor is my thing.
A 1948 comic romance novel by the great P.G.Wodehouse. A typically happy ending for all.
His wit and sarcasm blend well together, producing works which you just want to devour in one sitting.The plot of the book was also what can usually be expected from Wodehouse fare: several bumbling people who are all yearning for one thing or another, and the ridiculous situations they get themselves into whilst trying to sort things out.
Oh, how I wish we would still use words today like Wodehouse used to - I finished the book a few days ago, and still can't get "flippertygibbet" out of my mind (definition: one who, er, likes to play the field).
I never imagined that I would like any work of Wodehouse which does not feature Lord Emsworth and the Empress of Blandings, but I was wrong. There are more twists and turns in this novel, compared to a regular Blandings novel. There's a butler who looks like an aristocrat and an aristocrat who looks like a butler, a hopeless love triangle, lovers' tiffs and an extremely satisfying ending. In short, it's a delightful read. I would recommend it to anyone who is in dire need of a good laugh.
Nothing significant here, but the book is a lot of fun. This is a rare Wodehouse without either Wooster or Jeeves. It's a deliberately silly story, with a remarkably ingenious humorous plot. Mishap follows mishap. The dialog is witty and the characters memorable. Reading this is a fun way to spend a day or two.
A lighthearted romance in typical ironic Wodehouse style. Confusions, attempted break-ins, caricatured wealthy movie-making Americans and equally caricatured upper-class English Earls all mix in this enjoyable book
This book isn't terrible. It just isn't great. The plotting is nice but not startling. The characters are bland and, for me, not always sympathetic. It isn't the title I would give if someone was going to read only one Wodehouse novel.
This is a Jeevesless Wodehouse, and a Jeevesless Wodehouse can make one ask what one ought to make of a diminished thing. The jokes, however, are excellent, and there are not one but two butlers doing impressive deeds in this novel. It will probably improve your life.
Things looked bad there towards the end, but Wodehouse (and Mycroft Cardinal) came through. Don't know why I ever doubted them.
Well kore of the same really with a strange indebtedness (partly) to King Lear. Beginning to think that Wodehouse was a frustrated burglar!
Very amusing with hilarious ending!
Whenever I feel even the slightest bit down, I really need to just remember to pick up some Wodehouse.
What a fun read
Funny, with some great lines.
Un lord inglés que no tiene dinero para casarse con su cocinera es el punto de partida de esta divertida historia llena de enredos y de pícaros de buen corazón. Uh uh mola
This read was not in the Overlook edition. Also read in August of 1984.
Oh wow almost done and i love it!
I've never read a P.G. Wodehouse I didn't like. He's hilarious. I'm always willing to buy another one, and always willing to lend one to friends who return them.
