https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1396111.Walt_Disney_s_Story_Land
Some were well-written, many were not. My kids enjoyed reading the stories and then watching the short (or movie) that it was based on.
I love the illustrations in the book.
My favorites are Sleeping Beauty, 101 Dalmations, Cinderella, Snow White, The Three Little Pigs, Dumbo, Pinocchio and The Ugly Duckling.
It was interesting to read these again knowing that over 40 years ago I touched this same book reading these fond memories.The most sad stories of all was definitely Dumbo and then The Ugly Duckling, but I'm happy they had happy endings.
Probably the only way to get this book would be to buy it from a used bookstore or Ebay.
Possibly one of my favorite books of childhood.
There are so many stories in here that I've forgotten about, or never read, or which have been rotated out of viewing because of sensitivity and political-correctness issues, but they are still part of the Disney history, so they cannot be erased.I wish the Disney channel would get back to airing old shorts or showing these older cartoons, instead of the teeny-bopper stuff that seems to fill the airwaves.
Disney is for all ages, and they should show the old stuff in the wee hours if the morning at least!
(Okay, off my gripe about TV, nothing to do with books.)
This wonderful collection was first published in 1962 (the year I was born) and was a favorite of mine as a child.
I can't even guess how many hours I spent with this book!
Back in 1992, I found a new edition of this book at a bookstore in Indiana and just HAD to get it for our kids.
It's got excerpts of stories from some of the classic Disney movies, but it's also got all sorts of others, everything from Johnny Appleseed to "Peter and the Wolf." This is a goodie, and I hope our future grandchildren will enjoy it someday, the way our kids and I have done.
These are stories taken from Disney movies and cartoons. There are many I have never heard of! The quality varies depending on the stories. Some are written by talented writers like Bill Peet and Margaret Wise Brown. Some are sexist, in typical Disney fashion. Some come from an American point of view (for example, "Ben and Me" and "Davey Crockett.")
Another one of those favorite storybooks from when I was little. I remember the really strange one with the kid who met the dragon who gave everybody lemonade (though I think a later edition dropped that one), and the rabbit who painted sunsets (though that was a sad one), and the story of Goofy's rise to fame... yeah, this was good old-fashioned Disney.
Overall this is a good collection of stories. I found some interesting and some incredibly boring. There are some stories in here filled with racism and sexism which isn't surprising since this is Disney, but aside from those stories, it's great for reading aloud with children.
A bunch of stories -- some classic Disney, some I didn't recognize. I remember sitting on Mom's lap and listening to her read Dumbo to me. Later in life, my new puppy chewed on the corner of this book before I could stop her, so this book holds a lot of memories for me!
This one is a bit of nostalgia from when my grandmother used to read me stories from am earlier edition.
Another favorite of mine as a kid. So many favorite Disney stories, like Bambi, Dumbo, Peter Pan, Cinderella, etc.
My most favourite childhood book!
I loved all these classic stories in the book. I also enjo watching some of them in short clips at home. :)
I read this over and over and stared at the pictures for hours as a kid. I still have my very beat up copy.
it's safe to rate it while i'm turning 24 years old. you are never too old for Disney.
It was cute, I love Disney and I read a story or two to my very much younger sister before bed and she loved it!
I have had this book since I was a child. I spent many an hour immersed in its pages.
i love disneyyyy!!!! :D
A lot of great stories!
A wonderful collection of stories for any Disney fan.
