https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6425.Hard_Eight
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to Hard Eight, the 8th book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series, written in 2002 by Janet Evanovich. OK... so I cannot figure out for the life of me how Ms. Evanovich comes up with the hilarity in these characters. It's absolutely amazing to see the varying degrees of lunatics Stephanie has to deal with. In this book, it's less about one particular mystery, although there is a driving case she is working on. There are about 10 skips (bail jumpers) she's tr
Book Review
4 out of 5 stars to Hard Eight, the 8th book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series, written in 2002 by Janet Evanovich.
In this book, it's less about one particular mystery, although there is a driving case she is working on.
You never know who to root for in these books.
I mean who wouldn't want to watch Lula trying to take control and become her own bail bonds woman.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Finally, after seven books, Stephanie has fornicated with Batman, aka, Ranger.
Major kudos go to Janet Evanovich for making my stomach flip without a whole lot of information.
I've never even seen this Ranger, or Joe Morelli for that matter, and yet all I have to do is read a line and somehow they can send heat straight to my doodah, Jesus.
And finally, my fear of geese has been validated.
Thank you Janet!As per usual, hi-lights include:1.
Stephanie's mother kills a rabbit2.
Andy Bender alludes capture, and heists Stephanie's car.3.
Fornication with Batman4.
When geese attack, how Stephanie discovered the power of the Cracker Jack
I mean, yeah, there were plenty of cars getting blown-up and a killer in a rabbit suit chasing her, but there was also a kind of sad undertone because of the break-up.
I don't want sad and serious in these books!
I read them to get away from sad and serious stuff.
I'm a sad & serious avoider.
And, just like that dom, she is constantly unable to finish the job.
It's kind of pathetic.The GOOD news in this book is that she finally gets down and dirty with Ranger.
A guy like that will definitely finish the job - a couple of times.
Out of all the Stephanie Plum books, so far, I think this has the scariest villain.Reread-April 2018. The Plum’s neighbor asks Steph to find her granddaughter. This leads Steph through terrifying encounters with a bunny and a bear. It’s scarier than it sounds. Meanwhile she and Morelli are separated. Enter Ranger. Hubba hubba!
As the danger ratchets up a notch and Morelli continues to keep his distance after their latest fallout it's up to Ranger to come to Stephanie's aid when she needs him the most.This series is just so much fun to read, I don't care that Stephanie is the world's worst bounty hunter who can't hold onto a pair of handcuffs for more than five minutes and who manages to get her cars blown up on a pretty much daily basis.
Things are in the off-again position with Morelli but that just allows Ranger to finally make his move and bow chicka wow wow has that been a long time coming (but well worth the wait!).
(Even though this particular orgasm took seven novels to achieve.) Part of the foreplay involves a new character with the great last name of Kloughn (pronounced ‘clown’) and as much as I hate to admit it—he made me laugh out loud.
For movies I like anything with flesh-eating Zombies (as opposed to Cheerios eating Zombies); for musical guilty please it would be Liberace’s Greatest Hits (not really, you have permission to feed me to the nearest flesh eating Zombie if that ever happens); for books it would be the Time Life Series on Do-It-Yourself Brain Surgery and Janet Evanovich (watch out Stephanie Meyers, your in my sights for a book burning party).
In this book, bounty-hunter Stephanie gets a couple two-bit FTAs (failure to appear) to get back to court.
While juggling lusty feelings for both Ranger and Morelli, she gets an unwanted sidekick tagging along.
That is essentially the plot of all of the Stephanie Plum books that I've read so far.
Though it was cute at first, it gets old essentially reading the same story over and over again.
Now, reading it as a break in between other books, this just seems far to shallow with no real growth in the character over time.
I've read reviews for books later in the series (17, 18) and it appears nothing changes between now and then, so I am just not going to bother.
I might pick up the LAST book in the series to see what happens, but until then, they are all much the same.
Again, eight books and she is still back and forth with Morrelli, I'm really over this 'love' triangle, not only is it annoying, but it's not real.
If there had been any laugh out loud funny bits in the book, I might not feel so annoyed, but it all felt flat for me.
The mystery in this book was okay, I didn't really care much about it because in this installment we had an abundance of entertaining side kicks.Albert Klough's description of looking like a Pillsbury Doughboy made me laugh lout loud EVERY TIME!
xDAnd the scene where he got stuck in a dryer is the epicest thing I've ever read, I laughed so much that my sides hurt.Sadly, Grandma Mazur didn't have much role in this one and neither did Morelli but Stephanie's "fornication with the Batman" a.k.a Ranger made up for it.
Oh God, this book is the most humorous thing EVER.
Why-oh-why didn't Janet go into a little more detail about Steph's 'escapade' with Ranger?
Darnit, I wanted more info than that!
LOL!
That's okay.
He's still just as hot as ever.
I enjoyed the story, but it still seems strange, the situation between Joe and Steph.
Why is it that he can't accept wholely who Steph is and what she does for a living?
Would he feel the same if she was a cop?
Wonder what the next story will bring.
I adore this series, and thank everyone who turned me on to it.
THANK YOU!!!
The rolling around is what happens when a bust goes crapola and there’s a last ditch effort to hog-tie a big, dumb bad guy possessing a congenitally defective frontal lobe.Stephanie and Lula make a wonderful team.
One of the reasons book one really got to me, was reading about what Stephanie and Lula endured.
Only thing stopping me is I don’t want to k-i-l-l you in front of the b-r-a-t-s.”Dealing with Morelli during an off on-again-off-again relationship, and Ranger’s smooth sexy yumminess, Stephanie is faced with a dilemma.
Hard Eight is a fantastic Plum novel and is one of my favorites :) This story is about Stephanie helping out her parent's neighbor.
The neighbor's granddaughter Evelyn and great granddaughter Annie have disappeared so Stephanie agrees to help find them.
In the process of locating Evelyn and Annie, Stephanie crosses paths with a dangerous individual by the name of Eddie Abruzzi.
One of my favorite parts of this book is the fact that Steph and Ranger finally hook up!
Ranger and Steph have a lot of chemistry together and I think that Ranger is more capable of helping her grow as an individual.
Hard Eight by Janet Evanovich is the 8th book in the Stephanie Plum series. Bounty hunter Stephanie Plum is caught up looking for a missing mother and daughter when they go missing on a custody bond. Unfortunately there are other dangerous characters looking for them as well. Another very entertaining and fun book, with Stephanie getting a lot of help from her friends and family. I especially love Grandma Mazur and Lulu. A fast-paced adventure that leaves you laughing.
Another laugh out loud adventure!
Each episode has a different story or two related to the job, and sometimes those caught up in it have some sort of connection with one of the regulars, but meanwhile there's a soap-opera plot which depends more on the personalities and out-of-work life of the main characters.
OK, so this is bond enforcement in New Jersey, not A&E in Holby; the genre is comedy rather than drama; and you know Stephanie's going to get a car destroyed rather than knowing that person working in the factory is going to have a horrid accident - but you see what I mean don't you?
In Hard Eight, it begins with Stephanie feeling a little in limbo.
Her neighbor Mabel comes to her for help.
Mabel's grandaughter Evelyn and her daughter Annie are on the run from Eveyln's exhusband.
Due to a custody-bond agreement where Mabel put her house up for collateral, her house is now potentially going to be taken away unless someone finds Evelyn and Annie.
Stephanie decides to take up the case while the usual hijinks occur.
Also lots of Ranger yumminess when he comes to demand payment from the previous book.If you like one Stephanie Plum book, you'll kinda like them all since they keep the same tone.
When more description is given to the homocidal masturbating bunny than Plum's first time with Ranger . . . Something's not quite right. Amusing, fun, but decidedly disappointing. Now To the Nines ....
3.5/5
I received Hard Eight, the unabridged audiobook version, as a present and approached it with a small amount of wariness because the last Janet Evanovich book I read on audio (that would be Seven Up) was ruined by the terrible over the top, cartoon-like rendering of the characters by narrator Tonya Elby.
Am I too picky, or what?Stephanie's voice as read in this version is way too cultured, way too slow and it doesn't sound at all like the Stephanie Plum we all know and love.
5 stars ***** just for sheer laugh-out-loudness!I love the Stephanie Plum series. She has to be the unluckiest bail bonds-person/private-eye ever! These books are fabulously confusing, over-the-top, well plotted, raunchy, and stuffed with crazy characters & black humour. They have it all and really do have you laughing out loud. The best thing, for me, is that there are lots left in the series for me to read!! Yay! ;)
This series is quite simply a never-ending buffet, well maybe it will end sooner or later, but not soon.
Just when you think our gal Stephanie's run of bad luck has come to an end, it starts again.
He gets sucked into the F5 which is Stephanie's life and career.
Stephanie is on the lookout for her neighbor's daughter, who doesn't want to be found.
Trouble is Stephanie may not be the only one looking for her.
I seriously don't think there is a funnier series of books in print.
For those reading this that have not read any books in this series, please start reading them.
La Evanovich è come sempre magistrale nel farti ridere a crepapelle per le situazioni più inverosimili e bizzarre, senza risultare mai esagerata.Come al solito, Stephanie è alle prese con macchine che vanno a fuoco, criminali mascherati, sfuggenti e pericolosi, una famiglia esilarante e amici surreali.Qui deve anche palleggiarsi (finalmente fino in fondo anche con Ranger) tra i suoi due uomini da sballo che le ronzano intorno.Stephanie è sempre un toccasana.
Janet did it again, this one made me laugh out loud a lot of parts. This series is so addicting
By far my favorite of the series......and all I can say is I am in love with Ranger....
adoro Stephanie Plum!
Another great read in the Stephanie Plum series. Light suspense drama. Can’t wait to read next one in the series
=D I don't think there's going to be any long term Stephanie-Ranger cause the books seem to always bring her back to boring Morelli, but I'll take what I can get.
books: killing=not so bad =) There were a couple other instances in books I was hoping Ranger would show up at opportune times but never did.
I had high hopes as the book neared the end and the crazy guy of this book was still at large and Ranger didn't disappoint.
Stephanie is already back in Morelli's arms(boo!) by the end, but I'm thinking Stephanie isn't going to look as fondly on Ranger's activities as I did.
Stephanie Plum is helping out a neighbor of her parents by trying to locate her grand daughter and great grand daughter.
Steven is connected to a very bad ass named Eddie Abruzzi and is now threating Stephanie and her family.
Stephanie is also trying to capture and take in Andy Bender who is a violent drunk.
Now with the love triangle of Stephanie, Ranger and Morelli, this could only be suspensful, sexually tense and hilarious.
We can't forget Grandma Mazur and Lula to all to the entertainment.I really liked this book.
Great book.
I laughed quite a few times in this book and was getting the evil eye from my husband for it again so that's a good thing.What is it with Stephanie and picking up every stray in the Burg?
I'm happy about that, but I'm still not loving the Ranger/Steph couple as much as Morelli/Steph.
Ranger will not commit, I think he's made that abundantly clear and deep down I know Stephanie wants to commit, she's just too damn stubborn to accept it.I'm glad that there is still a Morelli / Stephanie and I hope they resolve things in the near future, because I love them together.
more.What would really make me love this series is if there were some POV from Morelli and Ranger...
God I would really love to know what is going on in their minds behind all those intense stares and sexy grins!!So, I guess she is back with Morelli again at the end of this book.
I wanted more Ranger, wanted to see if he would lose his controlled mind set with Steph and surprise us.Loving the "love triangle" in this series but wished Ranger was more present in the books as most of the time he just pops up gives a couple of remarks with babe at the end and thats that.
