https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/744615.Scott_Pilgrim_Volume_4
3.5/5Not my favorite as I thought too many stories were happening at once, but still a solid entry!
Fourth Level! This is the fourth book (in a series of six) of “Scott Pilgrim” saga.Creative Team:Creator, writer and illustrator: Bryan Lee O’Malley  PILGRIM’S PATH GOES INCOGNITA  Are… are you recording music? You have a home studio?! Oh my god.  Do you want something? Can I help you?.  Can you record our album? Sex Bob-Omb needs to record an album! We need to take it to the next level! You saw us in play in volume 3, right? We aren’t all that sucky, right? Life is good for good ol Bryan Lee O
Life is good for good ol Bryan Lee O’Malley (the author, duh!) since we notice improvements in the publishing of this fourth book with 8 opening pages in full color, and the best backcover ever (well, so far in the series) especially if you are fan of the old 8-bit video games!As I guessed while reading the third book (see review), the experience on the fourth was a delicious "terra incognita" since many of what you watched in the film adaptation, was used in the original third book, so while certainly is the same evil ex-"boyfriend" here, the events weren't pictured in the movie version, and along with several other exclusive book events, certainly you'll never know what may happened here, until you read it!Ironically in this fourth book, you’ll get a pretty straight narrative (if you got my pun!
Better than Vol 3, Scott Pilgrim gets it together was a fun read. Knives' dad was a cool character, the Kim Pine twist was interesting and Ramona's evil girlfriend was a trip (especially bursting into rabbits!) looking forward to Twins and the final episode.
4.75Gracioso, romántico y con varias fases "sexys". Lo amé de principio a fin.El señor Chau es vida."—Don’t you just wish this moment could last forever? —This moment with your hand on my boob?"
*2.5/5This was my least favorite in the series so far. I think it had way too many stories happening at once. This was also the volume with my absolute least favorite Ex. I really don't like how they are handled either in the movie, or in this volume. Plus, this one gave me the least number of reasons so far for why Ramona and Scott should even be together in the first place. Super sad this one just didn't impress me.
Bryan Lee O'Malley breaks through the fourth wall of my heart.
Message to Bryan Lee O'Malley: Fat jokes and gay jokes aren't funny.
I don't even mean that in a huffy self-righteous way.
I mean your book stops being clever whenever you go out of your way to joke about how fat chicks look bad and Scott's roommate is a fag and isn't it totally hot that Ramona had sex with a girl.
It's like how the movie Airplane suddenly becomes boring whenever they show the gay guy.
I open up a Scott Pilgrim book to read about the Evil Exes and Sex Bob-omb, not to see what color Ramona has dyed her hair.
Best Ex-Fight Yet! Geez am I turning into one of those people that swears the latest book in a series is always THE BEST...or are these books just getting progressively better? I really am beginning to think that scott and ramona's relationships is one of the most honest and realistic depiction of early 20's love I've seen in a while...you know minus the samurais chopping moving buses in half and people exploding into piles of bunnies.
After the first half of this volume you’ll be wondering.Wow is Scott growing up? Who’s that dude with the sword? Who’s that cheek with the sword? How old is Ramona? She’s kind of hot right? ......uuum I mean you know, for a fictional character, not that im kind of weirdo who’s into fake women -<> -Yeaaah so anyways Scott has a job now and he said the L-word to Ramona. The L-word is love, not lesbian ( hey it’s not my joke ok? )
ANOTHER great volume of a great series. I'm loving this so much. I love the movie so that doesn't really come as much of a surprise but I think this is really clever, funny and quirky. Keen to finish the series soon!
Also available on the WondrousBooks blog. The tendency of me liking Ramona started only in volume 3 and in this one I am already a fan. My main issue with her was the fact that I simply dislike over-idealized characters but as the story unfolds she becomes more and more human and normal. A proof to that is the fact that details were actually provided about her. Like her age...I liked the Lisa storyline because I was actually curious about her. I love it how the Scott Pilgrim series are not even
I love it how the Scott Pilgrim series are not even trying to be mysterious as horror or superhero books do and yet they leave some question marks which, however, get resolved when the time is right and not important issue is just left like that.This book presents my least favourite evil ex, but it is good in other ways.
(I can't believe I said that.) And the death of the evil ex (I'm treading carefully, give me credit) was also funny, a bit of a contradiction to the apparent seriousness of Scott getting the sword.Wallace, though.
(He finally tells Ramona he loves her and earns the power of love as a result.)Lisa Miller comes back on the scene and even though she really doesn't add much to the story, we learn about Scott through her...I also thought that there might have been some activity between her and Kim...but maybe that was just wishful thinking...anyway...there is girl on girl action but you'll never guess who!!
We also discover who Ramona's evil ex is...and who Scott will have to face next...there's two of them...All that's left to say is READ IT!!!!
READ IT NOW AND DON'T LOOK BACK!
A much better volume.
If there is something that I love the most about this series is (aside from the you know, fights), it's Lisa Miller's sketchy relationship with Scott Pilgrim.
I just love the two of them together, more than Knives an definitely waaay more than Ramona.
The subspace gets utilized more in this book, and readers will know how it sorta functions until they see this weird BDSM-ish scene with Ramona in it.
But yeah, I would definitely go with Lisa instead of Ramona.
Much better that Books #2 & #3!! We get to see new characters you'll love to death and some new characters that want Scott Pilgrim's death.Yeah and a kick-ass gif of Roxie here yah go..
An older Chinese man with a sword and a female Evil Ex-Boyfriend too are trying to kill Scott but more pressing things occupy him – the lease on his flat is up and his sugar daddy gay flatmate, Wallace, is moving out so Scott’s got to find a new place to live.
Though I saw the film first, I’m enjoying the books enormously, partly because there’s quite a lot in them that didn’t make it into the film (understandable as Edgar Wright tried to cram 6 books into one 2 hour film, doing an anti-Peter Jackson/Hobbit approach) like the concepts of subspace in their world and all that mundane (but cute) relationship stuff about moving in with each other and so on.
Very amusing. I was softly chucking with my mouth closed all the way through: "mhm hm...hmhmhm...hhm". Has lots of stuff that wasn't in the movie (you've seen that masterpiece of cinema haven't you?), or was rearranged for the movie. Looks nice in color.
I understand why the movie cut this volume almost entirely out of its script.
But having read volume six already (this is a reread) Knives' father still has a role to play.
Lisa Miller may just be filler, but it does play a part in revealing that Ramona may not be the perfect girlfriend material Scot Pilgrim initially though he had.
I guess the movie adaptation has pretty much shaped my perception of the Scott Pilgrim canon.
Hopefully, this reread will restore or uncover something hidden I've missed when I first read this wonderful series.
I don't know, I have seriously mixed feelings about this. I still adore Ramona and Wallace but it really bothered me that Ramona said her girlfriend was "a phase" and Scott sexualizing girl/girl romance was pretty trashy. Why do they always do this with bi characters? Bi!Ramona Flowers 4ever. The art is incredible, though.
I think a certain sword-wielding ninja just might be my favourite character after Wallace, and that’s really saying something about these unlikeable characters. A decent installment to the story. Surpringly, Ramona is boring me. They call her ‘mysterious’ in the book, but she is pretty basic. I prefer the movie version of her. Everyone else is quirky and fun to watch.
Beyond that, the fourth volume has everything that made the rest of the series so fun to read: the bizarre genre-blending, the constant video game callouts, and the understatedly hilarious characters and dialogue.I did have one gripe, though.
After grumbling about it for a while, I decided to let it go after realizing how much I was enjoying the rest of the book.This volume is back up to par, after the ever so slight disappointment of Scott Pilgrim and the Infinite Sadness.
As with the rest of the Scott Pilgrim books, though, you need a sense of irony and at least a passing familiarity with 8-bit video games to really appreciate it.
Normally, it would depend on how much I loved a movie in comparison to how the book did it for me to say whether I like it or hate it.
Which, the movie used and I liked it so much more.
On the other hand, Twilight the movie had parts that made NO SENSE until I read the book and it all clicked.
While I enjoyed Scott's fight with Ramona's ex Roxy in the movie, Scott fighting Roxy in the book was entirely different.
Extra covers and images, Win!
I guess this is where the story lost me a bit.
The main characters.****** SLIGHT SPOILER AHEAD (OR WHATEVER) ******Ramona's character seriously annoyed me in this volume.
It's annoying, and stupid, not to mention oh so typical, and I was under the impression that Ramona was everything but typical.
Way to go, Ramona.Not that Scott's character was any better.
I kinda understand not remembering a lot of people in your life, but it gets to a point where it's just ridiculous and starts to look incredibly self-centered.
The main characters may have been annoying, but the supporting characters make up for it.
I guess they would have had to pay Juno Boy a bit more money and maybe it wasn't in the budget.A Review from the mother of a 13 year old* The cussing is toned down in this one* 2 girls kiss in this one* They talk about seeing a dude's junk lolz* Knives the 17 year old gets drunk but there's a side panel that says it's not fun to watch a 17 year old get drunk lolz...
I'm sure by the time your kids are 13 they've already giggled behind a closed door waving it in front of an innocent teddy bear.* Scott punches a girl's boob...
These books (the series will run to seven volumes, I believe) are pretty damn great so far.
They look like mangas, read more or less like autobiographical comics, but pitch everything with just the right mix of humor and craziness that they achieve something special.They work much like _Buffy the Vampire Slayer_ does, taking real life situations and genre-fying them, so that the ordinary perils of falling in love and learning about someone's past and learning from your own mistakes get transformed into the conventions of the chosen medium (in Scott Pilgrim's case, the medium of comic books and video games, in Buffy's, the medium of being in a horror movie).Or maybe I'm just over intellectualizing.
Regardless, these books are really damn fun and touching, too.
This volume is a bit better than the last. 3 star material? Hell no. If you can only draw 4 different looking people, only have 4 characters.Scott gets a job finally. Washing dishes, but still a job. Things look up. And then he forgets to go to work and gets fired. And then rehired. Oh and Ramona's ex in this novel is a goth chick from her "experimental phase". UghScott kisses another girl, finds Ramona with her ex and then moves in with Ramona. Logical right?How can anyone like this guy at all?
This has got to be my favorite volume out of the Scott pilgrim series. It's was totally AMAZING!!!. Funny, romantic, action packed and everything you could ever ask for in a graphic novel. I loved the all the characters, and I loved ramona's evil ex boyfriend (aka it's a girl). Just everything was so was EPIC! And lovely about this novel.
This is the fourth installment of the series and finds Scott taking on the next of Ramona's evil exs as well as trying to get his own life together, including getting an actual real life job. The graphics are still superbly simplistic and the humour is excellent but I'm really not getting the attraction of Ramona, she still irks me.
Yay back to fighting the evil ex's!
I don't even like graphic novels, but these are amazing. They make me happy for some reason.
