https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26924.The_Sweet_Hereafter
Recipe for Russell Bank's Sweet HereafterIngredients required17 dead teenagers and little kids2 living teenagers 1 bus1 bus driver (female) 1 river1 roadTwenty-five large scoops of ice and snowFour bags of bad weather (can be found at most supermarkets)1 small townApprox 35 parentsReporters (a handful will do)2 lawyers1 oz morality10 oz sentimentality1 box soapflakes4 boxes KleenexMethodSprinkle the ice and snow on the road.
Add the teenagers and the driver to the bus and leave for 20 minutes.
Allow the bus to roll backwards into the river.
Wait for the bus and the teenagers to settle.
Add the morality, the sentimentality and the soapflakes.
Among those children who also survived was Nichole Burnell  and she was just sitting right at the back of Dolores and she now claims that she was looking at the speedometer when the accident happened.The story is told my 4 narrators: (1) Dolores Driscoll tells what happened in that tragic morning including the family background of the 14 dead schoolchildren; (2) Billy Ansel, an ex-Vietnam soldier who is currently running an auto repair.
He is one of the many lawyers who rushed out to the town in order to convince the families of the victims to file mass lawsuit; and (4) Nicole Burnell who is a local teenage beauty.
I feel like a great bulk of the book was not told, not actually given to us the way it was supposed to: like evading a grand central question.
"The Sweet Hereafter" is so preoccupied with the entire township that when the reader's & the individual narrator's ethics are questioned, the collective thought wins out & everything becomes impersonal.
I think this was a very difficult book to put together, though the approach of penetrating a group emotion by seeing the world through one of the four protagonist's mind seems a tad ineffective as it tries to be personal.
It could have been a mistake but I believe my decision was vindicated by just how urgently I devoured this one.Told in five parts in the first person by four of the major characters in the aftermath of the tragic crash of a school bus Banks slowly creates a multi-layered understanding of the event and the way people cope with tragedy.
It's loosely based on true events, a school bus did crash in Texas in the late 1980s and the townsfolk went crazy with litigation.I have seen and enjoyed the Atom Egoyan movie several times and never found it lacking in anything but in this instance the novel really does add an extra power and understanding to the film.
I've been meaning to read Russell Banks for a very long time.
These people are small town blue collar types, but what comes out in the narrative is more reflective of the writer's writing chops rather than what a normal person's thoughts would sound like.
Or me being stupid.For example:A character is reflecting on the time he and his wife forgot their daughter at the grocery store:The thought made me tremble with rage.
But I do know what I like, and that's reading a narrative that, when musings on the human conditions are brought out, I am nodding in agreement.
Russell Banks è un eccellente scrittore e questo "Il dolce domani" -pur senza brillare- conferma app
In the movie, directed by Atom Egoyan, the story of a school bus in a upstate NY town going into the lake is dealt with in the aftermath.
The folktale, "The Pied Piper of Hamlin" is interwoven through this story.
The ending of that story, in which the children end up in a happy place, while the town is bereft always seems a little suspicious.
But there is no Pied Piper in the book, and all the main characters do not have the glib answers that faith provides.
Whenever I read this book, I find myself wishing I'd read it before seeing the movie.
No matter how hard I try, I find that I just can't shake those visuals, and I'd like to try to read the book on its own terms.Having said that, I love both the book and the movie, for reasons I'm not sure I can explain.
The movie was actually one of the first DVDs I ever bought, at a time when DVDs were still kind of magical, and I watched it backwards and forwards.
Nowadays, who has time for that kind of investment in a flimsy plastic disc?But the book.
This one seemed to have a lot of potential.
The idea was good.
The story was… good.
I hated the way it was written.
I didn’t like this fellows style at all.
There was nothing stand out of the four people in the town chosen to narrate.
Their story was sad, something stand out in itself.
But I don’t think so.I think it was meant to be the coping with the sad story, and the stories of the survivors.
I thought that it was written in a dumbed down style that I didn’t approve of.
* Book review soon *
This is a terribly moving, insightful, and masterfully written novel, the best of the several I have read by Banks -- who is a superb writer.
"Newtown" (which as well as now being synonomous with a horrible tragedy, is also the name of a sleepy, quaint 300 year old New England town a few miles from where I went to high school) got me thinking about this book.
The novel asks, what happens to you when the worst thing in the world, something that seems unimaginable to you, becomes your reality?
Does it help you or hurt you?
Does it help or harm a community?
While the "worst thing in the world" in the novel differs in some significant ways from the unimaginable in Newtown, I still think this book may be timely reading for anyone currently contemplating those types of questions.
Huh. This book reminded me of the movie "Crash" --- it had that same feel of being a moving and at times heart squashing view of different people's lives and the way they come together to misunderstand each other.
At the same time, it's very different than Crash because the central conflict or story is this bus accident and how people grapple with it.
Maybe, after a couple centuries of people feeling they couldn't mention words like "erection" in literature, maybe now we're going to the other extreme in an effort to compensate.To me, the story doesn't have much redemption at the end.
The goodreads blurb for this says: "Atom Egoyan's Oscar-nominated The Sweet Hereafter is a good movie, remarkably faithful to the spirit of Russell Banks's novel of the same name, but Banks's book is twice as good." It has been a while since I read the book or saw the movie, but I'd say this assessment is kind of backwards. Banks's book is good, but the movie is a masterpiece. I should revisit both soon.
This book taught me more about how to write than almost any other book I've read. The last chapter is a remarkable tour de force.
Banks writes in such a way that he opens up the small town of Sam Dent and deposits you right in the middle of it leaving you feeling as if you personally know all the characters or might have once lived there yourself.
As I said the story is simple; One snowy morning a school bus goes off the road and into the frozen waters of a small American town, 14 children are lost in the accident and its citizens are confronted with life's most disturbing question when the worst happens who do you blame and how do you cope?
What I thought was clever was that even though they are all talking in first person about the accident, the story ends up being chronological - the bus driver describing the morning of the accident up until it just starts to happen, the father who is in a car following the bus takes us through the accident and the immediate aftermath, etc.I also thought the writing was impressive, specifically because Banks tackles really difficult emotional subjects - grief, guilt - but it seemed to me that he did it in language that was original, that avoided cliche, expected responses, trite phrases.My only two complaints about the book were that the lawyer's story seems to just be a loose thread at the end, and I'm also not sure I believed the voice of the 14 year old, that she could be that mature and calculating.
Couldn't put it down--an exploration of grief and how different individuals and the impacted community respond to and attempt to make sense of a terrible tragedy. Loved the way Banks tells it from four connected perspectives.
"Cand li se naruie visele, unii oameni devin superstitiosi din nevoia de a gasi o explicatie la ce li s-a intamplat"
Mitchell Stevens is a lawyer from New York City who comes up to try to "help" the parents of the town sue the "people with the deep pockets", in some twisted attempt to sort out his anger at life, and at having an estranged addict daughter.
However, the movie is set in Canada, while the book has local appeal.
I didn't expect it at all (because it was completely different form the movie, which I watched first), but the ending takes place with Dolores once again narrating, as she did at the beginning of the novel.
First, I thought the author really captured the "voices" of his different narrators in a very authentic way -- they were really all different people, as opposed to books like "My Sister's Keeper" where they all sounded the same.
Second, I was particularly impressed with the chapter that was written from the point of view of the ambulance chasing lawyer.
He did a wonderful job of making the ambulance chasing lawyer both sleazy and sympathetic, a truly complex character, as opposed to being all one or the other, or worse, unrealistically switching between the two.
Whether I believe the facts of any of the plots in his books is another question, but one that is rich and interesting to ponder.Still, the two books of his I've read have broken my heart.
And yet, as stark and heavy handed as that sounds, Banks makes it interesting.
He gets us through each section, through the stories of four narrators, linked to a school bus accident in a small town, by painting the details of this familiar life with subtlety and skill.
In his attempt to write a philosophical novel, Russell Banks sacrifices character development, plot and engaging writing.
In his attempt to tell the story of people coping with a shared tragedy, he sacrifices philosophy.
The resulting disaster is a barely readable story told by four different people, often with the characters overlapping and repeating events to the reader - sometimes even lifting dialogues word for word from previous chapters - instead of moving the story forward.
Perhaps if Banks could commit to either philosophy or writing real characters, this story could have been salvaged.
As it stands, The Sweet Hereafter is a plodding, dull and entirely forgettable novel that loses itself in its own attempt to be deep and meaningful.
This short little book took me over 2 weeks to finish - I savoured it to the last page and made sure I could read it undisturbed and without any interruptions. The writing is stellar, the characters are flawlessly developed and multifaceted, and I really enjoyed the story being broken up into different narratives.It's one of the saddest books I've ever read, but also one of the most beautiful ones.
A modern masterpiece. A tour de force of point of view and characterization. The story is quite tragic, but so well rendered and psychologically cogent. Internal and beautifully constructed and written novel.
The bus driver’s style is chatty as she attempts to distract herself from the terrible moment when she caused the bus to swerve off the road; the voice of the father who lost two children is detached and matter-of-fact as he is still under shock from which he will possibly never recover; the voice of the lawyer who persuades several of the bereft parents into a compensation lawsuit feels like a court address as he battles with the feelings of guilt nagging at him and attempts to justify himself; and the voice of the girl who survived the accident with her legs paralyzed is defiant as she not only copes with her disability but even tries to draw strength and confidence from it.On its most obvious level, The Sweet Hereafter is a novel about greed and what it does to a community; it shows how an unscrupulous lawyer exploits the loss of grieving parents, and how those parents are only too willing to give in to his seduction (on this level, the lawyer does come across like something of a snake oil merchant and I think there may be reminiscences of Melville’s Confidence Man).
This book was my introduction to Banks; it was the right book at the right time.
He examines a town's tragedy from different angles, taking his time.
Then in the next chapter, a character has a different take on her skills with the bus, and brings his own issues to that comment, in a way that feels so human.) The chapters are long and expansive, with tangents, but all of it takes us deeper into the world of this small town and the impacts of the tragedy.
Now, I have to go search and see whether Banks has spoken in an interview about his plotting technique; it is intricate, and effective.
(I should say right up front that what I’ve just read is an “Advance Reading Copy” of  The Sweet Hereafter  and not whatever eventually made it into bookstores. Did I miss anything? I don’t know, even if the same HarperCollins-published edition is supposedly three pages longer here at Goodreads.)“Nothing. Except that his tongue came out and licked dry lips. Then I recognized it: I’ve seen it a hundred times, but it still surprises and scares me. It’s the opaque black-glass look of a man who rece
Without that occasional narrative lagniappe, I’m not sure I could’ve made it to the end.But I did, and can now highly recommend this novel – my first of Russell Banks’s, but certainly not my last.One additional citation – and this one from the bus driver:“That done, though, I kept myself away from all town functions, church affairs, meetings, bake sales, and so forth, and more or less oriented myself west and south, faced our life towards Lake Placid, where I had to take Abbott twice a week for his physical therapy, anyhow.
I also loved the movie and it's rare that both hold up.
When children die in a bus accident in a small town, there are plenty of questions but no easy answers. Who's to blame? Russell Banks' "The Sweet Hereafter" deals with truth, lies, grief and guilt, approaching the story from several characters' perspectives and telling it well. Not as good as Banks' "Cloudsplitter," "Affliction" or "Continental Drift," it's a little too short to sink into you long and hard, but is still a good one.
