https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/913768.Sammy_the_Seal
This morphs a man who used to stand for something into a spineless, groveling sycophant that exists only to enable Sammy's innermost fantasies, the most terrifying of which is attending school.Sammy begins his time in the classroom as an anonymous observer, hoping to catch the teacher in the midst of a lesson that she'd live to regret.
As the lesson continues, Sammy starts playing with blocks adorned with the letters of the alphabet, and his illiteracy becomes apparent to the reader.
The story ends with Sammy returning to the zoo and declaring, "There's no place like home!" He rejoins his fellow seals and chows down on some fish.
by Andrea Renee CoxCute story about a seal exploring the big world. I knocked off a star for the book being unrealistic. However, this book is a good one to open up a discussion about exploring the world verses the comforts of home. It was an enjoyable read. To me, it's a classic children's story that I loved when I was little and still am happy to read now that I'm grown.I was not compensated for my honest review.
I actually never read any of Syd Hoff's books until I picked this up at Barnes & Noble to read it to my niece at the store.Sammy the Seal is a fun book about a seal who lives in a zoo, and he wants to see what's outside the zoo.
Mr. Johnson, the zookeeper, lets Sammy the seal out of his cage (what?!) so he can explore the city.
He wanders the streets and observes people, jumps into a man's bathtub, and eventually ends up in an elementary school classroom.
Although he enjoys his adventures, he realizes that he likes living in the zoo.Syd Hoff's art is simply amazing.
Maybe I would have loved this if I'd read it first when I was little.
Reading it as an adult, it just seemed silly - and not in a good way.
Why would the zookeeper let Sammy leave the zoo and go exploring around town?
Why would the teacher let Sammy stay in school?
How can Sammy learn to read and write in the space of two sentences?
("Sammy learns to read.
Sammy learns to write.") I usually don't mind some silliness and a bit of fantasy in stories, but this one wasn't a favorite.
Emily TogstadEnglish 121/16/15Sammy The SealI read a children’s book to Austin’s niece Skye.
I really liked the book.The main character was a seal named Sammy.
The book was about a seal named Sammy that wanted to get out of the zoo.
After a long day, Sammy went back home to the zoo and ate some fish.
The book took place in an average town with a lot of friendly people.The town had a very large zoo with many animals.
Although the seal really loved exploring new places, he really loved being back home at the zoo.
A sweet story about Sammy, a seal, who is allowed to venture out of the zoo to see what the world is like, because he is very well behaved.
I remember reading this book as a small child countless times and really enjoying both the story and the pictures.
As an adult, I still find this book to be adorable and enjoyable.
The illustrations are very crisp and clean and look like something a very talented child artist would create.
SAMMY THE SEAL is a wonderful little book.
For those familiar with the Accelerated Reading Program, this is a 2.0 level book.

This is a fun story - it's designed for beginning readers and has a simple narrative, but it is a bit long. Young readers might need to read it in parts. The idea of a seal going to school and playing sports is funny and quite fantastic. We enjoyed listening to this book narrated on audio CD by Charles Mintz while we followed along with the story.
This book is a classic that I used to read with my Mother when I was a little girl. This book emphasizes the importance of learning about new places and meeting people who are different, all while upholding the importance of the love of home. Students could use this book to learn about different types of homes (single parent, divorced, different houses, different towns, etc.). Young students will enjoy the likable title character and his zoo friends.
This is a great read for teaching students science as it pertains to animals,natural habitat, diet, etc. An educator can also use the book to teach a little Geography. Sammy is a wonderful character for teaching students how to find one's place in the world.Also, it is a wonderful read for addressing the school culture and the purpose for attending school.
This is probably truly the first favorite book I ever had. I like this book so much that I read it to my daughter's Kindergarten class when I was a Mom Reader...I remember reading it as a kid and laughing everytime...moral of the story, there's no place like home.Now I collect Syd Hoff books. Strangely enough, I named my daughter Sydney...not after the author, though :)
I love Syd Hoff's illustrations and you can't really go wrong with his stories either. Your beginning reader will enjoy this one, especially if you follow it up with a movie! When I was a kid, my mom happened to find the 1962 Disney "Sammy, the Way-Out Seal" and we watched it often, wishing we could put a seal in our bathtub too. Reading Level: K - 3rd grades
I love Sammy! Such a great story...a total classic, must-read for every reader =)
I just can't get past the fact that there's a SEA LION pictured throughout the book.
this was one of my most favorite books as a kid. I really enjoy this illustrations the author uses. He is also one of my favorite authors for children's books.
Cute story for early readers. A seal tired of the zoo, tries to find his place, he is curious about everything. He loves school but is happy to go home, back to the zoo.
Anxious to see what life is like outside the zoo, Sammy the seal explores the city, goes to school, and plays with the children but decides that there really is no place like home.
I loved and memorized this book as a toddler, and it has been happily remembered for years.
However, there is a logistical issue with it that we realized while watching video tapes the other night.Sammy the "Seal" is a sea lion.
Seals flop around on the ground to move, and do not have ear flaps.
Sammy quite clearly has ear flaps and moves around with the help of his front flippers.
This is why I had to knock a star off from this beloved book.
Seals and sea lions are often mixed up, despite being completely different, and Sammy the Seal is only adding to the confusion.
Sammy the Seal by Syd Hoff is about an adventurous seal who leaves the zoo to go to school.
He plays with the kids and does all differnt kinds of activities a seal wouldn't do.
He even learns to read!I liked this book because it releases your imagination.
It makes you think about what if there was a seal who escaped the zoo and came to your school.
It's silly but it allows kids to think about the "what if's".
It gets them to think creatively.
The drawings of this book reminds of the drawings from the Calvin and Hobbs comics.
This book is about a seal that is sad because he wants to see the rest of the world outside the zoo. He goes on an adventure to see what life is like other places.I think this is a fun kids book. It doesn't really teach a lesson but it is a cute story about the different things the seal experiences when he leaves the zoo and how excited he is to go back and tell all of his friends.(Picture Book)
Good book for learners. My mother-in-law picked it out for my children back in the day. They liked how easy it was that my oldest decided she wanted to keep it for her future children. I'm sure they will like it as much as my children did.
This was one of the first books my five year old daughter read entirely on her own. It definitely made me feel nostalgic since I read it many times in my "I can read" phase as a child, and she thought it was hilarious. It does have a dated feel, but was still a great book for an early reader!
One book to go on vacation with a three year old---this one! We read this over and over as we traveled through Germany and Poland. It is a great story of a Seal's adventures outside of the zoo. One day it will turn into an I can read book for us but for now we enjoy a great story!
I use to love this book when I was younger. This book about Sammy the seal exploring the city, with all the kids. I really like how he explores the city. This teaches younger kids that it is okay to explore their dreams and the city.
A seal and his adventures through the city.
2.5
My childhood favorite and it has my name Sammy
My favorite childhood book.
Sammy is bored in the zoo and wants to see the world. And being a good seal, the zookeeper lets him.Cute children's book found at a library sale.
One of my childhood books. Great fun learning to read this book and now years later it was nice to remember the innocence of a child.
