https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70287.The_Many_Lives_Secret_Sorrows_of_Josephine_B_
History is Fiction. - Robespierre This entire book was written in epistolary format, which does not always work for me. In fact I think I may have read this a great deal sooner had my daughter not told me that the story unfolded as diary entries. That would have been my loss as the writing here is sublime. Every sentence just flows into the next and I feel as though I am a fly on the wall looking over Josephine’s shoulder as she writes. To be accurate though I cannot yet call her Josephine. I m
The story opens with Rose being told an extraordinary fortune by a voodoo priestess who lived in the shack up the river.The old woman began to moan, rolling her head from side to side, the whites of her eyes cloudy.
“Mimi!” “Why is she crying?”The old woman was shaking her head and mumbling.
I fell in the dirt and scrambled to my feet.“You will be Queen”, she said.Despite the fact that this is a work of fiction let there be no doubt that it has been meticulously researched.
Well, that first 15 year beginning was actually the "easy" part, IMHO.Because with the voyages, the deaths surrounding her, the nature of Alexandre, her husband!
But instead she holds her Mother's core- and like her Mother, will often have to experience separation and heartache and DISTINCT when will it end DISTANCE from her most loved (children)- merely to keep them all alive.The parts and associations just before the Terror, and within the prison during the period just before Robespierre took his turn were 5 plus star.
But that never "realizing" is what probably helped her survive to live another day and not lose her cognition of who she was.
This was a beautifully crafted book. Written in the voice of Josephine after nearly a decade of research by the author, it is intensely captivating and is one of my all time favorite books- along with the two that follow it in the trilogy. If you're a sucker for historical fiction it is an absolute MUST read.
Without a strong personality, diary format can come across as sketchy, with a jerky, stop and go quality, and I'm afraid I found the voice created for Josephine very bland and the voice doesn't vary from inexperienced creole girl to a mature sophisticated woman deeply involved and influential in the the politics of Revolutionary France.
I don't feel the story gained from being in diary form or even first person.The strength?
However, I often found the footnotes in the book of real history more revealing, making Josephine sound more complex and interesting than the voice created for her telling her own story.
The Many Lives & Secret Sorrows of Josephine B. is never tiring, always compelling, a definite page-turner. Truly recommend it!!! Full review you can find on my blog: https://poetryofreading.blogspot.com (less)
[image error]It's a little embarrassing to review a book I wrote, but I will say this: First: Readers have been over-the-moon about Joséphine.Second: This e-book edition is the first of my e-book publishing enterprise, Sandra Gulland INK, and I'm very proud of it.
All this to say that I wanted my INK editions to be the type of ebook I myself would love to read.
Readers report the book being loved by many generations in one family.
Gulland certainly goes under the petticoats of this pivotal period in history, the French Revolution and the Napoleonic era, to provide a day by day commentary of events as they unfolded, narrated by the enigmatic but charismatic Rose, aka Josephine, as named by her second husband.Born in Martinique off Creole heritage and married off to French aristocrat Alexandre de Beauharnais as a replacement to his original choice of her younger sister Catherine (who died suddenly and conveniently), Rose charms and ascends the ranks of Parisian society during the period of unrest following the French Revolution.
Rose follows him into prison but escapes on a reprieve when Robespierre himself (the patriarch of the Terror) is executed.A released Rose continues her survival and the protection of her fledgling family by artfully affiliating with the right power brokers of the shifting political hierarchy.
Takes is from Josephine aka Roses Tascher's ' childhood on the Caribbean island of Martinique through her troubles marriage to Alexandre De Beuharnais and pre-Revolutionary France, the French Revolution and the horrors of the Reign of Terror in which the protagonist' husband is executed and she herself escapes execution only by Robespierre's death and the Thermidore coup.Follows on with sharp insight into post Terror France and the time of the directory, with intimate portrayals of French politcians of the time such as Barras, Tallien and FoucheIt is towards the end of the novel where we get to explore the courtship of Rose by the brash young general Napoleon Buonoparte, the protege of the leading figure of the Directory, Deputy Barras.The book makes one feel excited to see into the private life and thoughts of Josephine, but he way the politics and society of the France of the time (as well as the focus on the slave rebellion on Martinique inspired by the revolution) is analysed and presented in a worm's eye view.
NO SPOILERSI have thoroughly enjoyed this book, the first of Sandra Gulland's trilogy concerning Josephine Bonaparte.
The primary reason why I give these books five stars is b/c you REALLY get to know the people - Josephine, her children and Napolean and his unbelievably yucky family.
Through page 146: Althought this reads like engaging fiction, the known facts of Josephine Bonaparte's life are accurately documented.
It is very interesting to read of diverse issues occurring at the time of the French Revolution and not JUST the polical trends.
Oh, and Josephine has still not met Napolean.Through page 43: The book reads like a novel.
While I found the beginning engaging, the story didn't make much sense starting about a third of the way through.
I also found all of the names of the various characters a bit confusing and I couldn't really believe Rose would befriend some of the politicians she meets after her marriage.
Another flaw with the story was her relationship with her husband.
While the novel may be based in fact, I felt like the author just didn't provide enough depth and complexity within Rose's character.
The story begins on the French island called Martinique, where a young woman called Rose dreams of going to Paris one day.Rose is offered in marriage to Alexandre de Beauharnais, an up and coming political figure for the French Revolution, and the story follows her life as she moves to France, becomes a married woman, and deals with life in a politically tumultuous France.The book is written by way of diary entries and letters, which was surprisingly effective and kept the story moving along at a fast pace.
I fell in love when I read this book.
Josephine, yes, Napoleon's Josephine became my bff.
Written in diary form, this book is an intimate portrait of a woman, who happened to live and be a part of interesting times.
When I started the book, I didn't know the players, and have since researched them all.
Guilland writes of a real flesh and blood woman, used, abused, honored and ultimately tossed aside.
I cried knowing the outcome, but Guilland writes to the heart.
A wonderful read, I zoomed through all three books.
This is the first book of a trilogy about Josephine B., as in Bonaparte.
Although the book is fiction, it is heavily research with some footnotes.
Josephine, whose original name of Rose was changed by Napoleon, was born on the French island of Martinique, to cane grower parents.
A local fortune teller predicted some very important events in Rose's life (I won't be a spoiler and tell you)In this first book of the trilogy Napoleon plays a very small role but the bloody background and Roses's own experiences are succificient to keep the reader engrossed and fascinated.
C'est magnifique!!!
An interesting, fun and fast read.
I felt the festivities as if they were for me, for I know what she feels, I know her joy."When the Reign of Terror begins with many political intrigues and dangers, Rose learns to navigate Parisian society, but not as successfully as she would hope.
(Those who know stay silent.) Every day there are riots for food." It is late in this first book in a trilogy of her life that Rose finally meets Napoleon Bonaparte.I really enjoyed the diary format of the novel (although fictional), and the skill the author had in bringing a young girl's hopes and fears to life.
This novel is written as if it was the secret diary of Rose de Beauharnias, the young woman who would become known to history as Empress Joséphine, wife of Napoleon.
You will be Queen.’ The novel then follows Rose’s life as she moves to France, is married to a French nobleman who ends up being guillotined, and through to her marriage to the brilliant young general, Napoleon.
The style of the book is most unusual – it actually really feels like a personal diary, unlike most novels written in this form.
I’ve already ordered the following two books in the trilogy – a really gripping novel.
My boss recommended it and I started reading slowly at first.
It's not an easy read since it's in diary form (I find that more challenging for some reason) and some words are in French (names/locations and slang mostly).
I took two years of French in high school but I don't recall much at all.
It's a historical fiction, of which I haven't read many.
It makes me want to go back to France to visit these places with a better, more educated perspective than I had on my visit at 15 years old.
I reallllly liked it!! It moved very quickly and was sad, fun, informative.... Excited to keep reading the series. Napoleon seems like quite a character! Rose/Josephine has real emotions most women can relate to... Gulland did a great job describing the chaos of the French Revolution and the impact it had on the French. Life in prison was painful to read. Anyway, I loved it the more I think about it.
I've been meaning to read this novel, by fellow Killaloe-ian, for awhile now. It's a time in history (French Revolution) I hadn't realised I'd wanted to learn more about. The book is well written and researched and Josephine/Rose's story is an interesting one. I recommend!
Captivating, wonderful. I can't say it better than the cover blurb from the Edmonton Journal - "It is that rare thing: a smart book you can read as compulsively as a beach-blanket thriller." My experience EXACTLY.Truly a great writing accomplishment.
The first book of this trilogy. A excellent research work by Sandra Gulland which cannot be missed.
This is not the first book I've read that delves deeply into the Terror but it is the most factual.
Presenting the story as a series of entries to a diary and as assorted correspondence to the diarist had me turning the page to read 'just one more entry' before putting the book down repeatedly and staying up way too late reading.
The tiny historical notes were useful to know but didn't fit at all with the style of the rest of the book.
I understand the utility of placing the notes on the same page as the obscure reference, but it distracted me from the story.
Recommended by my granddaughter this is an excellent story set in Revolutionary Paris The details esp of ladies fashion were amazing - great research here. I shall look forward to the other two books in the trilogy. Thanks Carrie.
This trilogy is incredible. I read these sometime around 2003, and they'll be well worth another read at some point!
You know, like Mary Chesnut’s diary of the Civil War. Not when it’s just a first person novel broken up into faux date segments as if she were making notes in her book, complete with dialogue and quotation marks and explanatory footnotes.
I feel like I am keeping secrets from her that she should know, and that I am committing a lie of omission.
I don’t even remember the titles of the other two books.On the other hand, it made me very badly want to read a good book about the French Revolution.
With a lover who has already borne him a child the time of his marriage, Rose's husband appears to only see his wife as the vessel to bear the children to carry on his family name.
With Rose's style and great compassion, not forgetting her ability to make friends where-ever she went, it is no wonder Napoleon put aside his desire for money to choose Rose for his wife, renaming her Josephine.With the backdrop of turbulent times and rich in historical detail, if you enjoy books making the past live again, I highly recommend this first book of a trilogy, THE MANY LIVES AND SECRET SORROWS OF JOSEPHINE B.
This is about the story of Josephine Bonaparte from the time of her childhood to the time she meets and marries Napoleon Bonaparte.
Politics rule Rose's young life as she watches government tumble and change over and over.
A change in government frees her.Napoleon is thought of as strange when he first appears on the scene.
He insists on calling her Josephine.
It has since been proven through DNA that the Dauphin Of France died at age fourteen from TB probably in 1799.Written in diary form, which is not my favorite style, the novel is nonetheless engrossing because of the period of history young Rose is living through.
This was a quick read due to the diary form.
I don't think that Josephine could have been such an amazing woman as the book depicts her--definitely some creative license there.
I will admit, I am also a sucker for a book that tells history from a woman's point of view.
Sex, Violence and Language MeterThe book has many sexual situations but are not graphic: 4.
There is a lot of violence (it was the Revolution after all) but mostly we read about it and it takes place off stage: 7.
No language really: 1.
"The Many Lives & Secret Sorrows of Josephine B." by Sandra Gulland is an historical fiction novel with (for me) a bit of a twist.
The feel is even more 'real' given that Ms. Gulland uses not just the dates and places where the entries were written, but also times of day in some cases and partial/entire letters written to Rose.
She was known as Rose before she met, then married, Napoleon; he gave her the name 'Josephine'.Finding out that she had a different name for her first 32 years was just one of many things that I learned from reading this book.
"The Many Lives..." is the first of a series.
