https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/833312.The_White_Spider
In the Museum, I found old newspaper clippings from 1938 showing that he was also one of the party of four which made the first successful ascent of the Eiger North face.
Having seen the immense vertical wall of the Eiger North Face when I had hiked the Bernese Alps some years before, I wanted to read Harrer's account of his climb.The book is actually an account of the drama, excitement and tragedies of the ascent of Eiger North Face in history - particularly from 1935 up to 1962.
La historia del alpinismo nos ofrece muchos relatos dramáticos, testimonios de accidentes mortales en torno a la consecución de rutas y de cimas, marcas que no significan nada para las personas ajenas al mundo de la montaña.
Poco puede decirse para convencer de lo contrario al que eso cree, pero una de las posibles respuestas se encuentra en este libro, La araña blanca.
Pero para mi es mucho más que eso, considero este libro como un alegato acerca de la verdadera esencia del alpinismo.
As far as an objective assessment of this book is concerned, I'd recommend it heartily - Harrer speaks from a position of great expertise, having been involved in the first successful conquest of the North Face of the Eiger..
There's only a certain number of times you can describe a very similar process, with the associated necessary technical language, without losing the reader's interest a little.
In addition, the final quarter of the book contains a certain amount of bitterness associated with criticising the Italian survivor of a climbing disaster which killed three others.
While I have never understood the motivation of people who willingly place themselves in harm's way by doing all sorts of bizarre things like hanging from ropes above precipiceswith rocks falling on their heads and winter blizzards forcing snow down their necks, I must admit they make fascinating reading.The Eiger, a particularly nasty rock face, was not successfully climbed from the north until the author and his team succeeded (where many others had failed) in 1938.
But I came away from it with far less appreciation that I had anticipated; the first few chapters are undeniably very compelling as Harrer outlines the early history of the Eiger attempts, the tragedies of climbers like Toni Kurz for example, and not to mention his own successful ascent which was the first ever.But much of the rest of the book, and much of the expansions which were added on in the following years, leave a great deal to be desired as Harrer's tone shifts more towards the critical and vindictive, scorning unsuccessful climbers in some instances, and descending into almost pure tirade when he turns his attention to Corti and the rescue attempt.
He slanders the Italian climber with no evidence of any impropriety on Corti's part other than speculation from a journalist (who's motives we of course are told are pure, and nothing to do with creating a story in which he is at the heart) and the fact that Corti's account was confused and in parts contradictory (Harrer is obsessed with Corti's inability to recall all the names of all the sections of the wall - a bizarre test for a man who has just spent a fatal week there).
This is particularly so in respect of the final third of the book, which was added after the book's original publication in 1958, to update on the attempts between 1959 and 1964.Far superior to the White Spider as the story of the North Face of the Eiger, in my view, is the Beckoning Silence by Joe Simpson (of Touching the Void fame).
Great and comprehensive chronicle of mountaineering on Eiger.
I loved the first few chapters that dealt with the first ever attempt by Mehringer and Sedlmeyer, the gruesome account of Toni Kurz and his fellow climbers, and the breathtaking first successful ascent.
Things like teamwork, acting responsibly, staying alive, and going after your dream take a whole new meaning on Eiger.
I enjoyed reading the non-mountaineering bits that added more detail and depth to the Eiger saga.
This book brings to life all the the scary and difficult things about scaling a seriously hard mountain.
I loved building my knowledge on mountaineering.
Harrer not only tells his own story of his group's first successful ascent of the Nordwand (or Mordwand, depending on your point of view), he traces the history of the mountain, recreating in careful detail the other successful attempts as well as the myriad disasters.
Harrer of course was in an enviable position to be able to do this, and his book is fascinating reading for a cozy armchair.
Harrer had some weird thing going there, and he refused to retract himself even after this discovery, which is just stubborn-headed.
There seems to be a lot of cronyism among Harrer and his fellow German climbers: Every climber who dies was the brightest young German mind to have ever graced the valley from which he came, only to fall at the face of the great Eiger, while every success is a testament to certain indefatigable greatness in the eyes of mankind immemorial.
He waits until the end of the novel to finally accuse an Italian of being the first to mistake his ambitions and strength are adequate for the climbing, though at least eight died before Harrer's parties first ascent.
This edition could probably have used a little polishing as well, the translation is rough and choppy.
The best book on the realities of climbing that I have read. You will finish it maybe convinced of the insanity of mountaineering, but certainly with a better understanding of what it is to climb. Harrer is indisputably one of the all-time greats of mountaineering.
It is when you start reading these chronologically arranged chapters leading to the first successful ascent and beyond, you realize the kind of crazed obsession that had pervaded the global mountaineering community to climb the north face of Eiger, notoriously called later as The Wall Of Death.The 1950s were busy years in Mountaineering; 1953 Everest, 1954 K2, 1955 Makalu, Kanchenjunga; 1956 Lhotse.
The adrenaline junkies of the mountaineering world had lost their interest in these endurance tests and wanted something dangerous and Eiger provided that, the chance of a maiden ascent on its north face.
This is the second time I've read this book, but I still find Harrer's arrogant and didactic style irritating.
Perhaps, given the zeitgeist of the nineteen fifties, one shouldn't be too surprised at the amount of prejudice expressed regarding nationality and language.Although, perhaps, acceptable in the fifties and sixties, his patronising comments about women were also an irritation.For all that, the book is worth reading for the sake of finding out about the history of the north face of the Eiger; its tragedies, as well as its triumphs.
Thank you Harrer, for articulating why and getting all Hemingway with your reverence for the bravery & codes of conduct governing "true mountaineers." I really dig the special contempt he has for the outsiders & rubberneckers who gawk at the climbers.
The idea of people peering through telescopes to watch these guys push through blood-chilling circumstances is deeply telling and appalling, and I am happy to despise them from my armchair.
I'm walking away with a deep respect and desire to not experience mountaineering from my armchair, though.
I can't tell who's the piece of shit here; you, or Harrer.Only complaint.
Heinrich Harrer talks about how he and a team of four were the first to ascend the notorious north face of the Eiger (in the Bernese Alps) in 1938, of the failed attempts before that, and attempts and successful climbs after that, all the way up to the early 1980s.
I got a little tired of the author's constant talking about the nobility of mountain climbers and their powerfulness and chivalry.
Just over and over with this, coupled with a defensiveness toward outsiders who question the motives of mountain climbers.
I first read this book as a high school kid a very long time ago, and have reread it once or twice since.
It is a classic of mountaineering literature.
This book is a must read for aficionados of mountaineering literature.
But it should also be read by anyone contemplating a trip to Grindelwald in Switzerland, especially if you are planning to take the train from Kleine Scheidigg to the Jungfraujoch.
The train goes through tunnels in the mountain and stops where you will have a chance to look out windows onto the face of Eiger, overlooking some of the nearly vertical terrain described in the book.
Heinrich Harrer is one of the few whose place in the history of adventure is firmly defined by more than one life-changing experience. The majority of readers are familiar with his name from the international bestseller  Seven Years in Tibet , in which he describes with much gusto his escape to and long refuge in the Forbidden Kingdom - actions that forever altered the course of events for both the Austrian ex-POW and the Dalai Lama. However, prior to World War II, Harrer also gained notoriety b
As a result, the final version of The White Spider ends up as a well-researched but hardly exciting historical retrospective, with its most unique aspect (the 1938 ascent) buried under a heap of names and facts.In terms of content, the mountain and its awesome natural feature are established as protagonists from the very beginning, in an appropriate context of the Golden Age of Climbing in the Alps.
Great readAs a mountaineering enthusiast, I'm a huge fan of Harrer. This book is a great telling of the tragedy & the victory in climbing that Great face in mountaineering.The writing is extremely descriptive and captures the essence. You also get introduced to the great climbers of our times, which then become your future wish list of books to read. Must read if you love the mountains!
Dieses Buch gehört nicht in eine Reihe schriftstellerischer Höhenflüge. Es gibt auch altertümlich anmutende Passagen zum Thema Geschlecht und langatmige Passagen, die sich zum Teil sehr ziehen.Allerdings bieten die Eigernordwand und ihre Besteigungen so viel Dramatik und Spannung, dass das Buch trotzdem fesselt und zum Weiterlesen zwingt. Tragödien und Erfolge von 1936 bis 1964 werden erzählt und lassen einen (vor allem beim Bericht der Ereignisse 1936) schaudern.
Una dintre cărțile obligatorii pentru iubitorii de munte și alpinism. Heinrich Harrer, celebrul protagonist al evenimentul din "Șapte ani în Tibet", povestește istoria feței nordice a Eiger-ului, cea mai periculoasă ascensiune din lume. Harrer a făcut parte din echipa care a reușit, pentru prima dată, escaladarea feței nordice a Eiger-ului. Înainte de asta, dar și după, numeroși alpiniști și-au pierdut viața pe Eiger. Aici intră și dramatica moarte a tânărului german Toni Kurz.
The north face of the Eiger.
Only about 13,000 feet in height, but one of the most feared climbs in the world.
This book is filled with the stories of all those who have attempted it until 1964, written by a member of the first team to succeed in 1938.
It may not be easy to understand why people attempt something so dangerous, but it's quite easy to admire the courage and tenacity of those who overcame such a great obstacle or of those who sought to rescue those who tried.
I really enjoyed it. Some amazing stories told that make me want to go back to Switzerland and look at the Eiger with a new appreciation. My only criticism of the book is that he didn't need to provide details of every single attempt, consideration of an attempt and longing look cast in the direction of the Eiger. :)
What can I say... just read it if you are curious about the history of the eiger and its climbers. It's quite heavy stuff sometimes and incomprehensible also for me as layperson. What I liked is that he wrote it as objectively as possible I think, with very much respect for his fellow climbers.
This book is absolutely everything it's billed to be. A complete Eiger classic, possibly the definitive book to read about the North Face. I savoured every second of it and had to stop myself completely devouring it. It's literally like a murder mystery but the mountain is the murderer.
First half was excellent. It was starting to drag a little when he began to recount the 20th ascent....
Thoroughly recommend this book.
While I found this book interesting, it was very very dry. A lot of research and information but presented in a very clinical way.
some chapters were waaay more interesting than others but still a solid book from start to finish. one of those rare mountaineering books that can be enjoyed by enthusiasts and novices alike.
A superb book, not just because of the mountaineering anecdotes - which range from the tragic to the triumphant - but also because of its recreation of a Europe before and after the war. Its metaphor of a rope linking different nations in a common endeavour is a moving one, more topical now than ever.
The descriptions of the climbs and rescues were compelling, though things got a bit "listy" when the author was describing some of the later climbs.
The tone is of a memoir and the high praise for all mountain climbers (except that one guy) gets a bit old as well as the complaints that people generally don't think as highly of mountain climbers as the ought to.
I bought this after seeing the movie "North Face," which is based on one of the earlier attempts to climb the north face of the Eiger.
The movie was fictionalized, but very compelling.
The chapter concerning the climb itself was shorter than I was expecting.
