https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/673475.Finders_Keepers
I read this as part of our Caldecott project over in the Children's Book Group.
I'm really surprised it won the Caldecott but perhaps I just don't appreciate this style of art.
It was very unattractive to me and the characters even looked a bit scary at times; that said, my fifteen month old son was easily able to identify the dogs.
I also wasn't a fan of the dogs fighting rather violently at the end of the story.
There's definitely a "moral to the story" but overall it just wasn't my cup of tea.
I'm curious now to read some of the Honor books from this year to see how they compare.
dafuq.
I feel like it might encourage young kids to draw without being perfect in their representations.
I'm not saying that a kindergarten child could draw this well, but I think that the more drawing styles they see, the more they'll realize that things don't have to look like a photograph like the illustrations do in many other books (like Tuesday).
I'm now wondering if I should look for more old books like this for my future classroom.
it was overall a good book, but I don't want my kids to beat up another kid just to get their toy back.
I really do hate giving out one-star reviews and avoid them as much as possible. But the more I think about this book, the less I like it. First of all, like many others here, I just don't get why it won the Caldecott for that year. Makes me really want to look and see what it was up against. The conclusion of the story I found disturbing. I liked that the dogs shared, but could have done without the dogfight.
• Book summary-There were two dogs that dug up a bone. They argued, and both thought the bone was theirs. To find out the owner of the bone, they decided to go ask everyone on the farm. They asked the farmer, and some of the animals with no luck. Everyone they asked did not care about the bone; they had better things to do. The dogs helped everyone they asked before they walked away. Eventually they asked a bigger dog, who asked to look at it. The dogs agreed and let him. The big dog tried to ru
•	Book summary-There were two dogs that dug up a bone.
The big dog tried to run away with their bone so they took it back.
The two dogs agreed to share the bone after their run in with the big dog.
They realized they should not be selfish.•	Caldecott Medal •	Grade level, interest level, Lexile -K-2•	Appropriate classroom use (subject area) -During story time, this book will benefit children when learning about sharing.
•	Individual students who might benefit from reading -Children that enjoy books about animals will enjoy this fun story.
This book was published in 1951 and in 1952, won the Caldecott award.
When looking at the pictures within the book, you have to remember when this book was published.
When I first read this book and was thinking to myself, “how did this book win this award?” But then I also had to go back and remember when this book was published and try to think how amazing and cool it was for children to be able to read and see the bright inviting colors to read a cute book about two dogs and their adventure.
Caldecott Medal, 1952Favorite illustration: page 11Favorite line: "The first person they met was an apprentice barber. He was just learning how to cut hair and couldn't find anybody to practice on." It's a bizarre book!
One of those rare times when I cannot offer further exploration suggestions because I didn't like the book enough to bother. For more: http://satia.blogspot.com/2010/12/fiv...
This book was pretty funny, until the dogs got their bones back by beating the crap out of another dog. Normally I'm not ultra-opposed to violence in books, but this was absurd.
Caldecott winner? Really? The illustrations are fine, but... the most distinguished of the year? Must've been a slow year. Story wasn't too original, either, but wasn't bad. Overall, just...okay.
Once the cart was out the farmer had given them a pile of hay instead of an answer, thus was the first time they were tricked into doing something without getting an answer in return.
Nap and Winkle attack this bigger dog in order to get their bone back.
One dog takes the back and the other the head until the bigger dog was too injured to defend himself and walked away, leaving the bone for Nap and Winkle.
In the end they decided that the bigger dog did have a point and that the bone was too big for just one of them to have.
This book is bout two dogs that are brothers.
This becomes the theme of the book, the dogs wander around asking people and animals who should get the bone and they all just care about what they want not about who should get the bone.
Until they encounter another dog who wants to see the bone before deciding which one of them should get the bone.
This is when they decide that the bone is big enough to share.
These two dogs will literally do anything for somebody else to decide which one of them should get the bone.
This book begins by introducing two dogs: Nap and Winkle.
"'That bone is mine,' said Nap.
Throughout the remainder of this book, Nap and Winkle encounter animals/people to ask: "Who's bone is it?".
Nap and Winkle are unable to receive an answer from the animals/people that they asked.
However, this conflict is eventually resolved and the dogs decide to share the bone.This book received a Caldecott medal in 1952.
Honestly, some of the characters creeped me out (EX: the big dog).
However, I liked some of the geometric/edgy illustrations for a few of the characters (EX: the goat).
They had a difficult time deciding who gets the bone.
They end up deciding to share the bone.
I love this book because it can teach young students about sharing.
I would definitely use this book in my classroom because it would express how to share and the right ways to go about it.
I love how bright the pictures are.
Overall, this book would be great for young students to read because it works with the theme of fairness and kindness which I think all teachers should find ways to incorporate into their lesson plans.
• 1952 Caldecott Winner •It’s hard to go wrong with a book that has dogs as the main characters.
Nap and Winkle are two dogs that dug up a bone at the same time and can’t agree on whose it is.
I like the moral that arguing over something so trivial is a waste of time, and that it’s better to share.
However, their arguing lead them on a series of (mostly) fun adventures so I don’t really get that.
It kind of makes arguing look fun.
Hm, I’m not sure this would have been my choice as the Caldecott Winner in 1952, but it’s not bad either.

I'm not sure if the illustrations look dated or retro.
It is sort of fun, two dogs discover a bone and one touched it first and the other saw it first and they can't decide whose it is.
They ask multiple characters and finally ask a big dog who tries to steal it, they fight him off together and then decide to share it.
If there's a lesson to be had in this book, it isn't particularly obvious other than dogs will fight over a bone.
My daughter would enjoy it for the haircuts the dogs get in the middle.
Winkle and Nap look to the people and animals around them to help decide who’s bone it really is. But nobody is interested in helping them. In the end, they decide quickly when a big dog tries to take the bone away. They decide to share. The perfect book to show young children what it means to share and that fighting over something isn't worth it. It's meant to be a funny story in which students will stay interested in the story for a long time.
1952 Caldecott WinnerAesop style chain of events story about 2 dogs who ask others to decide who gets the bone that one found and the other sniffed out; different style of illustration from other stories; Join Nap and Winkle for their discovery of friendship and fairness
I read this for a challenge. Probably one of my least favorite Caldecott winners. The illustrations aren’t really that great and, frankly, the story is kind of violent. It’s about 2 dogs who have dug up a bone and fight about it. That’s it! Nothing much to the story either. 1 star.
I really liked the illustrations, but did not like how the color was added at all. There were only three colors used other than the outlines. The colors distracted from the pictures. They would have been better off just black and white or full color added.
This book would be good for Kindergarten through 2nd grade. I like how some of the illustrations have unique solid colored backgrounds. Sometimes its red, gold and even black. This is a good book to use for conversations about sharing and team work .
Surprisingly violent at the end and there was a lack of reason to each of the characters the dogs encountered. It was a pleasant read.
1952 Caldecott. Unique illustrations, but I like them. Fun color palette.
It is a very wordy book, not great for younger readers. I am personally not a huge fan of the illustrations either.
Finders Keepers is not one of my favorite books. The illustrations were creative, easy to follow, and gave me a good visual image of the characters. The moral of the story is easy to pick out but it's just not my taste. As an educator this would be the perfect book to teach about sharing. The pictures and language of the book would be easy for lower grade students to understand but I feel the story line is meant for older elementary aged students.
They appear to be pastel drawings.Reading Level: strong transitionalUse: read aloud, independent reading, guided readingLiterary Elements: repetitionThoughts:Two dogs each claim a bone they have found and ask passersby for help in deciding ownership.One primary theme in the book Finders Keepers is cooperation.
The very first page of the book shows Nap and Winkle, the two primary dogs in the story, digging a hole together.
Finally, Nap and Winkle share the bone and work together to eat the bone.
The words move around on the page and they are black text on dark colored backgrounds.
And they ask for help with the bone, and the goat says, "Okay, let me eat the hay." And then he eats the hay, and then says, "Psych!
Not gonna help you out!" The same thing happens with a haircutter, who cuts their hair and then says he doesn't care about their bone.
And at the end, they just share the bone between the two of them.They could have come to that conclusion earlier, by themselves, but they needed to ask other people for advice.
#1 Finders Keepers is a Caldecott award winning children's book of 1951 which is about two dogs who find a bone and compete to figure out who it belongs to.
The dogs eventually come to the realization that they should share the bone, so we can infer that the moral for children may be that sharing is caring.
# 3 It is clear why this story would have won an award through the plot and illustrations throughout.
However, the artist’s illustrations make it slightly outdated compared to a children's book of today.
This book is about two dogs names Nap and Winkle.
Each person took the eyes of of the argument and onto themselves on how they first needed the dogs help before giving them a decision.
The final person they encountered was a dog who tried to steal the bone from them.
They concluded their journey deciding to share the bone together.
In the classroom I would ask students what would they do if they had to make a decision without the help of their family or friends.
