https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/154798.Superman
Honestly? The best Superhero comic I've read in years. I might say "The best Superhero comic I've ever read" if not for The Dark Knight and Watchmen. Very clever. Tightly written. Different enough to be interesting, but still true to the original source mythology of Superman. Highly recommended. Even if you don't really give a damn about superheroes.
Is Superman’s moral code hot-wired in his DNA or did being raised by the do-right Kents help establish his role as the world’s ultimate Boy Scout?What better way to examine this question than for Mark Millar to have Superman’s rocket ship land in a collective farm in Soviet Russia rather than in the American heartland.When Superman’s powers are realized by the Soviet government, Stalin elevates him to become champion of the common worker and a handy tool in the Cold War against the U.S. Despite the fact that Superman was raised in Soviet Russia, his humanity is still evident.
Coulda Been a Contender...What if Superman had crash-landed and grown up in the Soviet Union rather than in the United States?
The premise behind Superman: Red Son is as obvious as it is intriguing: in the tradition of Watchmen, it allows – theoretically, at least – for an investigation of the genre’s underlying ideological and political assumptions.As it turns out, however, Millar is not all that interested in politics and ideologies - or even in his own characters, for that matter.
It's a bird...it's a plane...It's Commie Superman!It was alright, but I'm not as in love with Red Son as everyone else seems to be. Intellectually, this is a good Superman What If story. *sigh*But it bored me.Sorry, but I had a hard time not putting this down.I can't give it less than 3 stars, because it really is an ingenious take on Superman. I can't give it more, because I had to put it on the back of my toilet to ensure I would finish it.Recommended for Superman fans looking for a What If comic.
Nah, that’s just Superman, eh.”Fortunately for us, the readers, Mark Millar gives us a more interesting scenario.
Becoming the right hand man and the eventual successor to Joseph Stalin, Superman puts the power in the palm of Communist Russia.
I knew enough about the character and the DC universe to keep my head above water, so you don’t need to be a comics historian to catch the jokes and changes in certain superheroes and supervillains.The only real problem I have is the ending.
It was interesting to see where everything ended up after the core conflict was settled but it seemed to go on and on and on.
Mark Millar’s got the alternate reality/universe/elseworlds thing down.
Between Superman: Red Son, Ultimate X-Men, and Old Man Logan, he has penned some bomb-ass shit.
Superman is still basically a good guy that wants to do the right thing.
Known mostly for his covers (100 Bullets, The Punisher, and some Batman stuff), I really enjoyed seeing him put in some work on this book.
Sorta reminded me a little of Eduardo Risso.Anyone that enjoys alternate reality or “Elseworlds” stories like Injustice: Gods Among Us, The Dark Knight Returns, Old Man Logan, or Kingdom Come would probably get a kick outta this one.
DC's "Elseworlds" series imagines an alternate take on the Superman story with "Comrade Superman" becoming ruler of Soviet Russia, slowly taking over the world while an independent America led by Lex Luthor fights against an increasingly unhinged and totalitarian-minded Man of Steel.Mark Millar has written no less than a masterpiece with "Superman: Red Son".
I like when writers add nuance to Luthor's character instead of single-minded cartoonist villainy and Millar hits the right chord with his characterisation of Luthor here.There are great moments throughout the book that make it a non-stop thriller for any comics fan: the re-imaginings of Wonder Woman, Bizarro, and Green Lantern are excellent but the Russian Batman takes the cake for best alternate take on a legend.
He makes a pact with Braniac (who shrinks Stalingrad for his great museum), allies with Wonder Woman, eradicates prisons with a futuristic lobotomy, and watches as a bastard son of Stalin gives rise to Batmanovic -- a counter-revolutionary obsessed with independent thought and freedom (Russo-Batman and his philosophical obsession are a pair of the graphic novel's weakest points).Mike Millar's creativity is undeniable, and the pencils by Johnson and Kilian Plunkett are perfect.
If each issue in the mini-series had been a year of comics, if DC had commissioned 36 issues rather than three, Red Son would have been one of the greatest comics ever written; instead, it is merely clever.I wanted to watch Superman as the Czar of the Warsaw Pact.
This was a re-read for me. This book captures what Elseworlds is all about. Millar, Johnson, and Plunkett have created a fully realized world where Superman landed on Earth 12 hours earlier and so crashlanded in Russia instead. Superman appears in Moscow as an adult and becomes the new red scourge for America in the 50's. Superman allows communism to flourish and spread throughout the world and establishes order whether citizens want it or not. Lex Luthor is still his terrible self but still an American and such is put in the position of taking out Superman.
My second read was better than the first because I picked up so many more details.
And let's just say this books contains probably the most fascinating versions of well-known characters like Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman, Hal Jordan, Lois Lane, Lex Luthor, Brainiac, and Jimmy Olsen.
On the second read the ending worked much better for me.
Superman finally comes to terms with who he's become and needless to say it's a shocker.
I enjoyed the reveal near the end in the future, and greatly enjoyed the mind warp and twist on Superman's origin.
Superman has the power to control the world, but he doesn't - he chooses not to - and we like to believe that it was his small-town, American upbringing that instilled such humility in him.This book examines how things might have gone.In the late '80s, DC Comics introduced their "Elseworlds" imprint, with a pretty simple mandate: take canon DC characters and place them in new situations or environments.
People are no longer in control of their own destinies with Superman in charge, and while that may be a safe life, it is not one that I would like to live.The political message of this book is subtle, but it's there.
While I appreciate her devotion and determination to stand by her man despite him having no obvious need for her, I just do not see this as Lois Lane and I don’t see any justification for her being with Luthor just because she isn’t with Superman in this incarnation.I was also a bit concerned with Luthor’s sociopathic portrayal as it began as somewhat caricature-ish.
I love that Millar didn’t let Superman merely figure this out in the finale.
He's raised in the Ukraine by some farmers we never meet, and yet still has the exact same moral compass as the mainstream Superman.In this reality, Lois Lane is married to Lex Luthor.
In some spectacularly cheesy and pointless scenes, Superman meets Lois and thinks "In another life, I could've married her." Who cares?!
Instead, we're treated to a Soviet Union that just completely changes its actions thanks to Superman being in charge.
The red one should've done the same, instead of changing the Soviet beliefs to match his own hyper-moral character.Oh, except for one thing.
For example: my understanding of Superman and Batman come mostly from reading the odder, subversive versions of them (Frank Miller's 'Dark Knight Returns', Loeb's 'Hush', Moore's 'Killing Joke') as well as allusive explorations of what the characters could have been (Astro City, Watchmen, Powers, Invincible, Enigma).Though I do have cultural knowledge of their stories through various film and television permutations, tackling them as comic book characters is a more involved endeavor.
Part of what makes mainline comics dull and wacky is the fact that stories always get reset, things are always the same, over and over, and its rare that an author gets to actually explore a character in a meaningful way.
But where Kingdom Come posits that Superman is ultimately sort of more human than human, and would never forget his roots even if he got a little distracted in a quest to make the world a better place, Red Son seems to be saying that just being born and raised in Communist Russia would take things to an entirely different and necessarily bad end, that his desire to help humanity would inadvertently lead to his becoming a dictator.
It's interesting to think about what Superman would be like if Clark Kent were not the really good guy we know and love, but someone else entirely - 'born' somewhere else, and raised by different people in a different environment.
I miss seeing creators take imaginative risks with characters, but very few have paid off as completely as Millar's Red Son. It's a pretty simple, almost natural concept: what if, instead of landing in Kansas and becoming the prototype All American hero, Kal-El's little ship had landed in the USSR and he had become the prototype All Soviet hero?
Millar clearly put an incredible amount of thought into his new reality.
Except maybe the little fur hat Batman wears, but nothing's perfect.There are several good twists in the ending, but it still feels a little drawn out.
From Jimmy Olsen to Lois Lane, Mark Millar does an impeccable job in putting these key characters from Superman’s lore in unique positions that create dynamics that you’d never thought you’d ever see them in.As if it wasn’t enough to be immersed in this particular political landscape, an homage to the DC mythology that respects the core essence of each superheroes’ lore and the very foundation of their relationship to each other is interspersed within the narrative in a very spectacular fashion.
Long-time fans of DC heroes will also undoubtedly find even more joy in seeing how Mark Millar twists countless heroes’ origin story and creates one of the best Elseworlds story that I have ever read.Yours truly,Lashaan | Blogger and Book ReviewerOfficial blog: https://bookidote.com/
This is a good example of the difference between graphic novels and comic books.
While, yes, this does feature Superman and Lex Luthor, this is as stark a departure you can get from Superman's Action Comics roots.
But all in all, this is a rare, must-read Superman story, as this is exactly the kind of out-of-the-box scenario it takes to make Superman a truly interesting character.
Prendete l’azzurrone, il simbolo americano per eccellenza (un po’ come Cap lo è per la Marvel) e trasformatelo nel comunista n°1, ma uno di quelli da guerra fredda.
Evidente tanto sul costume di questo Superman quanto nel leader degli scontenti, l’anarchia in nero, Batman.Il triangolo che coinvolge Wonder Woman (cacchio alcune sequenze in cui è presente mi hanno fatto venire le palpitazioni), l’evolversi degli eventi ed un modo così adulto di affrontare tutta la storia, sviluppandola non banalizzandola in una semplice scazzottata ma facendo dell’ideologia il perno centrale.
Si potrebbe chiamarlo uno what if… ma io preferisco definirlo semplicemente capolavoro.
This is part of my 'i gotta read more superman shit' plan and all it did was make me love batman more how does that happen, like leave Bruce i'm working on this highly scientific plan.
Russian history is my jam so i think i was expecting something different, maybe more political but it doesn't, it's mainly just superman being dumped into russia instead of the usa, so if you're put of reading this cause you know jack shit about the cold war, don't worry you don't need to catch up on your a-level history, you're good to go.
Mark Millar reinvents Superman into a Soviet superhero in this Elseworlds story appropriately named, "Red Son".What if the craft carrying Kal-El landed in Soviet heartland instead of Kansas?
Millar writes a compelling and ultimately re-readable story of Superman ended up behind the Iron Curtain.
It definitely changed how superheroes emerged for once and a Russian Batman emerges with a different reason for existing.
This went one for two-thirds of the story, until Millar revealed his trump card.
Superman's ideological allegiance was not the only part of the mythos he was giving a different interpretation.
(view spoiler)[(Hint: It's about the origin of House El).
(hide spoiler)]
OK, so I recalled reading this, but I think I got it confused with Last Son of Krypton...because there's no WAY I wouldn't have gushed about how awesome this book is.Superman: Red So(u)n (You'll get it.) is, quite possibly, Mark Millar's finest work.This book is so full of little teasers and links to the original DCU that it's like a Where's Waldo game to find them all...I only read once, and I saw a few that were AWESOME.I could literally gush about this non-stop.
COMIC BOOK AWESOME!So so so so sooo good.
I want to say this is the second best comic I have ever read, second only to Watchmen.Ideally prospective readers of this would have at least moderate knowledge of the DC Universe to catch all of the references to other heroes and events.
Luckily, I'm a history major and a comic nerd, so I have both.I don't want to get into the plot too much as to avoid spoilers, but basically Superman lands in the Ukraine instead of Kansas and is raised with Communist ideals, but he's still a good guy who doesn't want to kill anyone.
As far as I’ve read into the character, this trade paperback (three issues long) is, in my opinion, the best Superman story.
Using a ‘what-if’ scenario as the jumping off point (what if Superman landed in the Soviet Union in the late 30s as opposed to Smallville, Kansas) this really re-explores the DC Universe in a world in which Superman wasn’t fighting for the “American Way” but rather communist ideals.
While not giving firm answers on the right and wrong of a communist vs.
capitalist utopia (it's murky at best) Superman does fall victim to his own hubris, as does Lex Luthor, who becomes President of the United States for his opposition to the alien.
What if the ship carrying infant Kal-l had crashed in Russia instead of America, and Superman had grown up to become a Soviet superhero, subduing the world for communism?Great idea, although I would have liked a slightly longer book with more time to get in depth characterization and explore more history.
My favorite Superman book so far. Brilliant!!!
A very cool What if story. Superman, Russia, communism, Lex Luthor/USA...makes a cool story.
Twelve hours, and the ship containing Kal-El (aka young Superman) didn't crash in Smallville Kansas, wasn't raised by Jonathan and Martha Kent, never went on to become the mighty symbol of American superiority.
Twelve hours and Superman lands in the USSR, Communist-controlled Russia, and becomes the apprentice of Joseph Stalin; a young, indestructible Demigod hellbent on spreading Communism worldwide.I don't know why I bought this.
I hate Superman as a character (I think his concept is too worn out to work in today's world), and I wasn't impressed by Mark Millar's Kick-Ass (I thought the film was a vast improvement on the graphic novel).
There were all sorts of reasons I shouldn't have liked this: the dialogue isn't great, the plotting and pacing is all over the map, the female character are all terribly crafted.
I do wish that the comic either decided to really explore Superman as a character (in a nice nature/nurture case study, as a friend pointed out) or decided to really delve into the politics.
There several moments that are probably fun for DC fans - Lois Lane is married to Lex Luthor?!?
I mean, why is Lois married to him?

