https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29363501-fantastic-beasts-and-where-to-find-them
Saw the movie, LOVED IT, came home and immediately read this in one sitting!
I was in Fantastic Beasts binge mode and it was like seeing the movie again!
The story is brilliant and there's so much great detail in the screenplay.
Plus the actual physical edition of this book is absolutely GORGEOUS.I do suggest seeing the movie first (it's so fun and visually stunning--GO SEE IT) and the screenplay doesn't add much new stuff (a few little details and confirmations you might not pick up watching the movie) BUT STILL, this is definitely a wonderful addition to my collection of wizarding world things!
A New Wizarding World saga precedes Harry Potter'sFantastic New WorldFantastic Characters;Beasts-Nerd Hufflepuff MagizoologistAmazing resourceful SistersWith a funny Muggle No-Maj character& Power hungry menAnd a Suitcase,Full of Beasts..FANTASTIC BEASTSSet Loose in 1920s New YorkFIND THEM ALLIn a thrilling Fantastic Cinematic experience, chilling Soundtrack mixing Hedwig theme with Saw’s Hello Zepp, comes this Fantastic StoryWritten by the Queen of Magic, expanding the Huge World she created, that's hidden among us.Wizarding World.With its Fantastic Beasts..
it's just a different experience.And of course because we all want every story of the Wizarding World in the forum of a book.Yet I felt bit disappointed that I needed to read the Deleted Scenes including in the script..
It is just amazing to dive into this old/new world, too feel all those feelings again, to fall in love with its characters, to be able to see and know more.
I really hope to see Queenie again, she is my new Hermione Granger and Alison Sudol does the most amazing job portraying her.Tina is cute and throughout the film I liked her more and more, but I wasn't overly satisfyed with Katherine Waterston's acting.Johnny Depp.
I think he is too much of a personality, too much Johnny Depp, to just see him as the character he is playing.The beasts are everything.
4/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ “Newt Scamander : "My philosophy is that worrying means you suffer twice.” ― J.K. Rowling, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them: The Original ScreenplayThis is not actually a "book" so I can't really write a review about it but I'll say a few words. This is a beautifully crafted book with amazing illustrations and a fantastic cover. As a graphic designer student, I always appreciate beautiful artwork throughout books. And I also appreciated the credit that was given to the a
This is a beautifully crafted book with amazing illustrations and a fantastic cover.
As a graphic designer student, I always appreciate beautiful artwork throughout books.
And I also appreciated the credit that was given to the artists in the back of the book.
So, naturally, I have watched the FBAWTFT movie many times.
Along with the lines and descriptions of the book I could picture the scenes in my head perfectly.
Not because I have watched the movie many times, oh no, because the book was good at describing them, obviously.
I'm considering watching the movie again after this...
The Cursed child just felt depressing.
This carries with it all the whimsical humour of the earlier Harry Potter books before things became dark and serious.
The plot relayed all the clumsiness members of the wizarding world seem to possess.
2. A great new character Newt Scamander feels like he belongs in this world.
This seems like an obvious things to say, but when considering the fact that half the characters in  The Cursed Child  felt out of place, it becomes a necessity.
It's a new story in the normal world.
This felt independent and new.
I loved this so much <3 And the book itself was one big work of art! Any word on if the next movie scripts will be released as a book as well?The hardcover is a bit on the expensive side, but Book Depository has it going for 50% off right now in some countries!
Magical Experience! This is the screenplay of the film of the same title, don’t confuse with the previously published reference book sharing the same title, and also by J.K. Rowling. A NEW(T) HERO IN THE WIZARDING WORLD If I am dreaming, please don’t wake me! Two new books by J.K. Rowling (this one and Harry Potter and the Cursed Child) plus three digital short stories, expanding the Wizarding World of Harry Potter in the same year! Oh, yeah! Wicked! I couldn’t ask for something better!The Wiza
Oh, yeah!About the witch sisters, the Goldstein sisters, Porpentina aka “Tina”, demoted Auror in MACUSA (Magical Congress of the United States of America), and Queenie, who is a Legilimens (a witch able to read minds).This unlikely quartet is the best chance for New York against dark menaces from different angles, colliding at the same time, in the city that never sleeps……but a deathly power is awakens……and nobody will be safe, wizards and mug…mmh…no-majs alike!The Wizarding World of J.K. Rowling just got larger!And we are only just beginning!
قل عنه سيناريو بسيطقل أنه استغلال تجاري للفيلمقل عنه ما شئتعن نفسي، استمتعت تماما بهذا العمل الأظرف 
The magic is still there <3My video review is now up!: https://youtu.be/m-keJpzfFxE
Newt is obviously meant to be my husband and I'm kind of obsessed with him and everything about this movie/screenplay.
Otherwise I still feel a longing for more, some kind of happy sadness (yes, I've gone completely insane).About 15 minutes after finishing the screenplay, still struggling to control myself, I went to my husband and told him that I really need a physical copy.
What I do see is an amazing movie (with a wonderful screenplay) that stands on its own.
Take away all you know about HP and this is still a great movie.My absolute favorite character is Jacob, the No-Maj (or Muggle, if you prefer).
Jacob brought tears to my eyes, and I love him dearly.So, to sum up, go see the movie and get the screenplay.
"Because I like you. Because you’re my friend and I’ll never forget how you helped me, Jacob." First of all, I really loved the design of this book, especially when you just finished those chapters and saw the pictures of each fantastic beast. I couldn't stop myself from rubbing the cover all the time when I held this book in my hands, it was gorgeous and shining as if I was staring at a piece of art, not a book. Tell me—has anyone ever believed you when you told them not to worry? This is defi
Newt comes to the city for his secret reason, but he lets his magical creatures escape from his case, that's where things get messy.
Although everything in Fantastic Beasts didn't cause me to have Harry Potter nostalgia, it still captivated me with the world building and magic system that I was familiar with, such as spells and the differrence between Witches and No-Maj. The political system in this book is intense and mature either.
I think the reason that this happened because the movie couldn't balance two important things, which is the story and the CG, without leaving another thing out.
I don't care that this is just a script, as with  The Cursed Child , because I need to know more about this expansive universe.We know so little of the American school, Ilvermorny.But, like others, I hope we are given an in depth view of it as much as Hogwarts. So far, all we really have to go on are the ~leaked~ house animals:
Even though Harry is not in this story but that doesn't matter because the magic is still beautiful.
There are great new characters, story, and of course the fantastic beasts themselves!
For anyone who loves books, this book is a keeper.This is a screenplay so don't assume it's a regular novel like the original seven Harry Potter books.
Even without seeing the movie first, this screenplay gives you enough story to be able to appreciate the dangers of this new Wizarding World.J.K. Rowling is a wizard at writing.
A definite must read if you love the Harry Potter series ❤“Will we die, just a little?”
Read all of my thoughts and my full-length review hereMagical. In every sense of the word.
I can't believe I haven't read this yet.
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them is the screenplay for the movie. I couldn't find a single difference from the movie I watched yesterday. It was such a detailed script which invited you to follow the storyline closely. The characters are JK Rowling fantastic and so is the storyline. I don't have much else to say, about the characters or the plot, I'm just so in love with this 1926 spin-off of the Harry Potter world. A definite must read if you love the Harry Potter series.
The Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them screenplay welcomes you to a new era of magic.Set in the 1920s at the heart of the wizarding community of New York, J.
K. Rowling crafted a refreshing tale with a more mature set of characters yet a lighthearted narrative.Having watched the film first, I can say that it had an amazing cast.
In my opinion, the characters were the strongest element of the script.
An action-packed plot with the most imaginative creatures, Fantastic Beasts is a story that needs to be told.
Los detalles aquí plasmados respecto a los plasmados en la película no varían tanto como cabía esperar, pero como fan de Rowling se aprecian otras cosas que quizá es cierto que en el filme no son tan obvias.Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them: The Original Screenplay es un libro que creo que debe ser el primero de muchos, es decir, que espero que continúen publicando los guiones del resto de películas.
Tanto si eres fan como si no, el hecho de que una superproducción deje 'libre' su guion me parece increíble y una oportunidad única, así que lanzaos a por ella.

FIRST OF ALL! CAN SOMEONE TELL ME HOW CAN I TRAVEL THROUGH TIME AND MARRY NEWT SCAMANDER??? He's so dreamy and cute! *sighs* And he has the most wonderful creatures! I MELT... I spent 50% of the movie declaring my love for Newt; 15% swooning over his fantastic beasts; 15% saying this movie was perfection; 15% praising J.K Rowling -I love her so much!!!- and the last 15% was all me fangirling over Queenie. She's my hero. That was 110%. oops. Sorry! By the end of the movie, I was Pickett, the Bowt
CAN SOMEONE TELL ME HOW CAN I TRAVEL THROUGH TIME AND MARRY NEWT SCAMANDER???
He's so dreamy and cute!
*sighs*
And he has the most wonderful creatures!
I MELT...
I spent 50% of the movie declaring my love for Newt; 15% swooning over his fantastic beasts; 15% saying this movie was perfection; 15% praising J.K Rowling -I love her so much!!!- and the last 15% was all me fangirling over Queenie.
She's my hero.
By the end of the movie, I was Pickett, the Bowtruckle.
❤ Even better, I might end up reading it and reading it over and over again.
i loved it and i need the next book now
*thinks about Credence Barebone for 4.3 milliseconds* shout out to J.K. Rowling for murdering me ever since the age of six, i really appreciate it, plz never stop.
I plan to watch the movie as soon as it's legally released online.I'm so happy that Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them was tons better than Harry Potter and the Cursed Child.
Although I haven't seen them on screen, I already have my favorite fantastic beasts: the Niffler, the Swooping Evil, and the Thunderbird.
I'm definitely coming from a Pokemon fan's POV when I say that I would love to own a Thunderbird in real life.
In contrast to Cursed Child, Fantastic Beasts didn't have any infuriating characters.
This book is based in the 1920s which is many many years before the time of Harry Potter.
I watched the movie before the book and to be honest I recommend you do that.
They are exactly the same but reading a script makes it very hard to visualize everything but because I watched the movie first I could picture everything so vividly.
It felt like I was watching the movie all over again.
This book/movie is still so good and reading the script makes me want to go and watch the movie again!!
Por una parte amé la edición que saco salamandra, tapa dura, cada página con detalles que van desde 
Just like the film, only better in some parts.
DNF
Even though I was super excited about the Fantastic Beasts movie, I also was a bit hesitant.
It's not a secret that I loathed The Cursed Child and I had lost a bit of faith in the wizarding world.However, Fantastic Beasts (both the movie and screenplay) reminded me of why I love J.K. Rowling's wizarding world so much.
I was very excited to see the wizarding community in America and to see the differences between the two cultures.
I loved being able to see the wizarding community in a way that we never got to see in the original 7 books.
This was the first time I've ever actually read a screenplay and WOW this will not be the last! Seriously enchanting!
