https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/369778.Remember_When
The first time I read this book I was already a Nora Roberts fan, but had not read any J.
D. Robb books.
I normally don't get into futuristic or murder mysteries much.After reading this book I was hooked.
I began aquiring all the JD books and promptly turned my daughter onto them.
We are now in the process of completing her collection, as I already own them all.I Would recommend this series (...in death) to anyone who likes a) a good 'who done it' b) a REALLY good love story c) ongoing series storiescheck them out.
You won't be sorry.
It actually contains two novellas, whose titles are founts of great originality: Part One and Part Two. Part One is written by Nora Roberts and contains a romantic suspense that takes place in 2003.
Robb takes the conclusion of Part One and has its consequences fall upon the lives and jobs of Eve Dallas and Roarke, the main protagonists of Robb’s In Death series.
And the hunt is conducted by all our regular In Death characters – Eve, Roarke, Peabody, McNab, Feeney, Baxter and Trueheart.As I said earlier, I am not a heavy reader of Nora Roberts’ books, not like I am with J.
3 stars for the first part "Hot Rocks" by Nora Roberts5 stars for the secong part "Big Jack" by J.D. Robb
Ela nunca tinha lido nada da Nora Roberts e como este junta os dois estilos (o romance da NR e o policial da JD Robb, que foi dos aspectos que me chamou mais a atenção) pensei que lhe podia dar um "2 em 1".
A primeira parte (escrita como Nora Roberts) traz-nos a história de Laine Tavish (ou Elaine O'Hara) e Max Gannon.
A segunda parte (escrita como JD Robb) leva-nos ao futuro, à investigação de mais um crime levada a cabo pela Tenente Eve Dallas.
This book has since been split into two separate books: Hot Rocks and Big Jack, but I think that splitting the book has done it a disservice as it really needs to be read as a whole to capture the nuances completely.The first half of this book is the Hot Rocks half, and I have to say, I wasn't that impressed with this plot!
The heist story was interesting, but the villains actions were very predictable.
1.5 stars for this half.The second half is Big Jack, and it is much better done!
The villain is again predictable here, but their crimes were not.
Ainda assim, ao contrário de outros, tenho uma explicação completamente plausível para o tempo que o demorei a ler: Naquele Tempo junta duas histórias relacionadas escritas por Nora Roberts, uma em nome próprio e outra com o seu pseudónimo J.D. Robb, dentro da série In Death; ora, como estou a ler esta série, decidi que só iria pegar no livro quando lesse os 17 livros anteriores.
Take note:  This is the only Nora Roberts book I have ever liked  I think it was the combining of the two stories and the two styles that Nora Roberts/JD Robb uses in her writings. Clever. It will probably be a long time before you hear me use clever or like regarding Nora Roberts again-- even though three people I adore tend to find her books what they need at a certain time. FROM THE PUBLISHERShe's one author - with two number-one New York Times-bestselling careers. As Nora Roberts, her novels
It will probably be a long time before you hear me use clever or like regarding Nora Roberts again-- even though three people I adore tend to find her books what they need at a certain time.
Now she unites her separate identities in a riveting two-part novel that combines edgy suspense and romantic passion - and journeys through past, present, and future.In Part One, Nora Roberts introduces us to Laine Tavish, known to the folks in Angel's Gap, Maryland, as the proprietor of Remember When, an antique treasures and gift shop.
The story was harmless enough - the problem was I just wanted to get it over and done with, so I could get to Roarke.Many years later Laine and Max's grand-daughter writes a book about how they met and the diamond heist that brought them together.
Not long after - a friend ends up dead while house sitting for her - because some of the diamonds were never recovered and they think Samantha knows where they are.The villain was a nasty piece of work who took after his grandfather (I twigged that very early on and the story doesn't try to hide it anyway).Roarke was very interested in the story - there's something magical about diamonds and it brought back some memories for him.
I wasn't about to read this book just because I'm usually not interested in spin-offs.
I wasn't disappointed.These are two stories in one book.
The first one is about Laine and Max, she is a daughter of one of the thieves and he is a privet eye looking for the jewels for the insurance company.
The granddaughter of Laine and Max, Samantha, wrote a book telling her grandparents story and now somebody is looking for the remaining diamonds.
Laine and Max one is strongly on a love at the first sight idea which I usually don't like.
And I had no doubts that Laine and Max love each other.
Combination Eve Dallas story with a present day story. 18th in the "In Death" series. I liked the Eve Dallas (second) half best, but the first half was enjoyable too.
Actual rating: 4.5 stars
Now I knew all this when I began the JD Robb series – future NYC cop Eve Dallas and her band of friends solve gruesome murders in the 2050’s – but was okay with it.
Even though I have read all 28 of the regular books I have since learned that she wrote a joint book as both authors, the first half takes place in the past, and the finale involving the grandkids in the future.This took me about two weeks to finish mainly because I couldn’t bring myself to carry a Nora Roberts book into my work break room.
I just finished listening the audio, and what a great book.
The audio cd consists of 14 discs, evenly divided between the back story Nora writes under her own name and the "In Death" section.
There's a lot of substance to each story, and in the Robb story, we get a lot of Peabody humor as this is the first book after she passes her detective exam.
The first part of the story describing the diamond heist is classic Nora Roberts romantic suspense.
I recommend this book to anyone who likes J.D. Robb or Nora Roberts.
She has escaped a life on the run with her father, Big Jack O'Hara.
Soon afterwards Laine's house is ransacked.Max Gannon is working with the insurance company to find some diamonds which have been stolen.
Max and Laine team up to find her father and the diamonds.The second story is an In Death one.Samantha Gannon arrives home to find her home-sitter and best friend dead.
Samantha was on a book tour promoting her book about her grandparents, Laine and Max Gannon.Was the murder because someone was looking for the diamonds that weren't recovered?This was an interesting concept for a book.
Loved this one when I read it... Perfect mix of romance and mystery, even though it's as cheesy as romance novel get (love it!):) ...Am I the only one that got confused by the fact that this book was published under a different name "Hot Rocks"   only a few years later (2005)... Nowhere does it mention that this is a reprint of the SAME book... I was excited about "Hot Rocks" and started reading it with enthusiasm, only to realize that I have already read it under a different name - "Remember Wh
Loved this one when I read it... Perfect mix of romance and mystery, even though it's as cheesy as romance novel get (love it!):) ...Am I the only one that got confused by the fact that this book was published under a different name "Hot Rocks" 
   only a few years later (2005)... Nowhere does it mention that this is a reprint of the SAME book... I was excited about "Hot Rocks" and started reading it with enthusiasm, only to realize that I have already read it under a different name - "Remember When"!!!
Overall - 4 stars!Part 1 (Nora Roberts) - 3 starsPart 2 (J.D. Robb) - 5 starsRemember When is a very good read.
I haven't read many Nora Roberts books, but am an avid fan of the J.D. Robb In Death series, thus my reading Remember When, as it contains book 17.5 of the In Death series.I had a fairly hard time staying engaged throughout Part 1 (the Nora Roberts novella).
But it was necessary because it sets the backstory for Part 2 of the book (the J.D. Robb novella) and brings us back into Eve Dallas' In Death world.
This is two novellas written by Nora Roberts and her alter-ego J. D. Robb. I re-read the In Death series and re-read the second part of this book as I do so. It is a nice edition to the series and involves solving and finding lost diamonds. The two stories together work very well and you should read both.
I enjoyed this two story book, the first was very much vintage nora roberts with a sweet love story and a story of suspense. The next was a JD Robb book with Eve as the center solving a mystery. A good combination of the two writing styles that she has. I enjoyed this book and it gives you a look at JD Robb books and it fits in the In Death series.
Great book, loved the 2 different parts, and it was just really good!
Loved it...it started out in our life time and then years in the future Eve Dallas and peabody take over !! Loved the switch over :)
However, Steve has a son, Trevor, who's in his late Twenties - and he's a friend of Samantha Gannon's ex-boyfriend, Chad Dix....Dramatic Chipmunk NEVER Gets OldWhile not the best IN DEATH story, it's still a solid entry in the Eve Dallas/Roarke series, and yes - the earlier Nora Roberts thriller about the jewel robbery, and Lanie's and Max's attempts to stop Crew from murdering them both, adds a resonance the story might not otherwise have.
The first half of the book is the love story of Laine and Max. Max is a PI on the look out for jewelry stolen and he believe Laine's father stolen them. And now a mad killer is after her. The second half take places about 50 years later. The case: Andre: house setter. Samantha's friend is murder while she was on tour about her book about the 52 Heise. Eve is call to find the killer. Great story.
I am in the process of reading the entire In Death series. so far I absolutely love the characters and the stories.
Depois temos a transação para a segunda parte, escrita pelo pseudónimo J.D.Robb no seu registo de Policial com um toque de romance.
Com J.D.Robb a parte policial é dominante na sua história, a protagonista encara mesmo a patente de Tenente e vimos todo o seu trabalho de escritório ou de campo, vimos todas as teorias que se vão desenrolando na cabeça, vimos cada passo que é dado para se chegar ao culpado do crime, e nas entrelinhas vimos então um pouco de romance (o quanto basta)!
(The shelving might be a bit confusing, so I put the appropriate opposing shelves in parentheses after the titles.):Hot Rocks by Nora Roberts (contemporary, rural)This half of the book is a contemporary (2003) romantic suspense novella.
It's a bit weird to have listened to like 17 In Death books in a row, then listen to a story about a woman who likes girly things.
I really like Laine and Max...
Max is basically Baxter...
Good luck figuring it out if you haven't read any of the other In Death books.......
So it's like reading a totally new book!
(Roberts is definitely a writer who produces enjoyable but not profound literature.) Each part is pretty typical of the other novels produced by Roberts under the appropriate name, and is a well written if not terribly original example of its genre.The nature of this supposed collaboration is such that one of the little games that the reader often finds themselves playing while reading something produced by two well known authors is not possible - that is, trying to pick up clues as to who is responsible for what.
But the idea of a collaboration with oneself is unusual enough and the writing good enough that this is an entertaining and most enjoyable light read.
The first in which Roberts writes the first part as Nora Roberts and the second as JD Robb.
Now, one of the associates, Alex Crew is out to get the whole package, not just his cut and he'll do anything, including murder to get it.
Great characters, witty dialogue, intriguing story-telling, and an action packed adventure.Move on the the second half and we're in 2059 with Eve Dallas and the gang on the case of the murder of Laine and Max's granddaughter's house sitter.
The second half is just as good as the first and includes everything that is fantastic about a JD Robb novel.
The story takes place in two time periods.
The first takes place in the early 2000’s with a diamond heist and the search and retrieval of 3/4 of the diamonds.
50+ years later Eve investigates a murder which may have connections to the still missing diamonds.I enjoyed the book and most of the usual points of interest in the series were there for me, but it didn’t add much to the overall story.
The book really just questions the role of nature vs nurture which is an important question in the lives of both Eve and Roarke.
Nora Roberts wrote half the book as herself, and the other half using her alter ego J.D. Robb.
And, in normal "In Death" fashion, the second half of the book was Eve and company investigating a murder.
The children and grandchildren of some of the characters in the first section play major roles in the second half.I've read only a few Nora Roberts books, so I write this as a J.D. Robb fan.
This was actually my second time reading this.
So I dutifully read this book first and a whole slew of series spoilers later, found out that this book is actually 17.5 in the series!
So it was nice this time to be able to actually read the book in the sequence it was meant to be in, having just finished book 17 the day before.
This book is actually 2 different but linked stories.
One, a romance mystery written by Nora Roberts and set in 2003 and the second by JD Robb (who is actually also Nora Roberts), a futuristic murder mystery set in the year 2059.
