https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30312891-lord-of-shadows
From the repercussions of the Cold Peace, the rising tensions between Downworlders and Shadowhunters, to the nuclear bombs waiting to detonate between character relationships, everything about this series expands into a bigger and better tale than I could have anticipated.
While I feel every character in this series has grown from book one to two, it really was a pleasure to learn more about this specific set of characters and get to know them better.
I think any reader who loves the TDA characters will be impressed with the character development in the sequel!As per usual, the plot of the next installment of  The Shadowhunter Chronicles  is insane.
I can't remember the last time a book made my heart feel this empty and this full at the same time. Man, what a magnificent installment. The story here is so epic and sprawling, and the way it's told--especially the pacing, how the different story threads were woven together--it was just perfect. Not to mention that I love these characters so much it makes my heart ache. Waiting for the next book is already causing me pain and we've still got TWO WHOLE YEARS TO GO. GAH.first read: may 2017reread: dec 2018 (audio)
Don't talk to me for like a week.
In other news, I broke my promise again of not reading the book the day it comes out and in one sitting.------------------Why I always do this to myself?I always read the book the day they come out and in one sitting and I don't think about the consequences like how I have to wait another whole f*cking year again.This book is going to make me suffer.
Like Clockwork Prince.I think I better wait until the last book comes out to read the whole series completely without suffering cliffhangers for a year again.
Excuse me, but WHAT JUST HAPPENED?
I'm ready to talk Continue on for 25% memes, 50% why I love this book, 25% more screaming(there may be mild spoilers untagged like new character names but everything major will be tagged)
I absolutely adore the characters in this series, especially Emma, Julian, Cristina, Livvy, Kit and Ty so having them all back in Lord of Shadows was of course a highlight.
I DID HAVE SOME ISSUES WITH BISEXUAL REPRESENTATION WHICH YOU CAN READ ON MY TWITTER THREADI didn't like Lord of Shadows as much as Lady Midnight because of some of the characters and the plot points and I'll get into that below.
WHAT THE HELL. MY HEART. WHY CASSIE WHY.
I'm usually up for them as long as my ship prevails in the end ;) but man did Cassie complicate things for every possible pairing in this book.
Emma/Julian/Mark - I thought this triangle wasn't so bad after I was done with Lady Midnight cause I knew Emma and Julian couldn't be romantically involved but Cassie effed things up with E&J always finding ways to hold each other and kiss.
Kieran/Mark/Christina/Diego - this triangle was the weirdest of them all cause I had a feeling like they wouldn't mind a 3way (minus Diego who's cancelled)Livvy/Kit/Ty - erm...
I don't want to get into any of the plot or spoil anything, so I'll just say it was really fun to see Faerie, London, familiar old faces, and get to know the current characters better.
I just love how much wonderful rep these stories have!I really do love every single character, but Ty is seriously one of my all-time favorites from any book.
In truth, the past was a violent time, when Downworlders suffered and those Nephilim who possessed compassion and empathy were tormented and punished along with them.""When a decision like [the Cold Peace] is made by a government, it emboldens those who are already prejudiced to speak their deepest thoughts of hate.
“Break my heart. Break it in pieces. I give you permission.”  I don't recall giving my permission though. I don't recall allowing Cassandra Clare to wreck havoc on my soul and stomp on its pieces before scattering them to the wind. But she did it anyway.   “A dark time is coming for Shadowhunters. A terrible time. Their power will be crushed, their might thrown down into the dirt, and their blood will run like water through the riverbeds of the world.”  Blood, ashes and despair. That's the per
There is always something mystical in the way Cassandra Clare writes.
And she triumphantly proved that Arthur Blackthorn could not be wiser: despite the pain and the hopelessness, without fiction our hearts would be dead.
Yes I do admire her fierceness and her strong spirit, her compassion and her sassiness, but by the Angel I lost count of the times she hurt Julian "for his own good", when she thought she was self-sacrificing and noble but then mourned her relationship with him when she was the one who broke it.
The wound the ending inflicted though will not be easy to heal, nor does it feel like a source of light.
When it comes to Lord of Shadows I really don't even know where to start! I loved the book! I loved it so much I found myself  rereading  certain passages just because I couldn't help myself but had to experience them again and again. =)Cassie has always been one of my favourite authors and the more I read from her, the more I get captured in her world. It’s not just the world of the Shadowhunters though, it’s the entire package Cassandra Clare is giving to us. There were so many details and thi
There are Julian and Emma who try to fight their feelings, there are Ty and Kit who slowly but steadily seem to fall in love and there is the love triangle between Mark, Kieran and Cristina that left me almost breathless and broken.
Since Kieran was taken to the Scholomance at the end of the book I don’t know how their love triangle is going to work out, I certainly hope that I will read a lot of them in the next book though!!!
"I thought you loved me. I don't know how I got that so wrong."- Julian @ Emmabut also- Me @ Cassandra Clare after that ending WHY CASSANDRA WHYYYYYYY
"I thought you loved me. I don't know how I got that so wrong."- Julian @ Emmabut also- ↋Me @ Cassandra Clare after that ending
  WHY CASSANDRA WHYYYYYYY
Someone :) just :) kill :) me :) and :) end :) my :) pain :)I can't deal with this hell I'm living in right now.
Someone hold me.
Then kill me.
Please.SERIOUSLY CASSIE CLARE, SERIOUSLY?
Stabbing me in the heart would've hurt less.
How. dare.
How. dare.
I want to punch you.
But you're also my queen???
BUT I WANT TO PUNCH YOU SO HARD FOR DOING THIS TO ME.
And now, I have to :) wait :) two :) years :) for :) the :) final :) book :)___5/19/2017: Not long now till this beauty is released!!!!I'M SO EXCITED I MIGHT FAINT.
ALL I CAN SAY IS THAT LORD OF SHADOWS IS SO SO SO SO SO SO SO SO SO SO GOOD. I thought I'd start off the review with like a really emotionally charged sentence of passionate and triumph but ya know what? I CNA'T WRITE THIS REVIEW. I CAN'T. I AM A BROKEN PIECE OF RUIN.Lady MidnightIT WAS SO SO SO GOOD.*wild sobbing* NOTE:  There will be no spoilers for LoS in this review! Or they'll be tagged! Do not fret! However there will be mild spoilers for Lady Midnight, so loooook away now. Ye have been wa
Like how on EARTH Are there so many Shadowhunter books but everything fits and works and foreshadows (HAR HAR I'M PUNNY) so beautifully and tightly?!?My favourite plot aspect was soooo totally the Faeries.
Let's be real here:• Julian: is so so Slytherin in this book it's kind of scary and I love it.
Just saying.• Kieran: Who is a Slytherin also and I love him and I know he's messed up and viciously faerie and all that but HE'S PRECIOUS AND I LOVE HIS HAIR.• Cristina: I like her!
0_0 OKAY I KNOW IT WILL.Also I 100% predict that Julian is going to use the Book of the Dead to raise her!!
1.) City of Bones ★★★2.) City of Ashes ★★3.) City of Glass ★★★1.) Clockwork Angel ★★★4.) City of Fallen Angels ★2.) Clockwork Prince ★★★★5.) City of Lost Souls ★★★★3.) Clockwork Princess ★★★★★6.) City of Heavenly Fire ★★★★★*.) The Bane Chronicles ★★★*.) Tales from the Shadowhunter Academy ★★★1.) Lady Midnight ★★★★★  “Fiction is truth, even if it is not a fact. If you believe only in facts and forget stories, your brain will live, but your heart will die.”  First and foremost, I am so thankful fo
I’m thinking the worst, and the best, about whose love child that is.➽ Octavian Blackthorn - I feel like we didn’t get to see Tavvy as much in this book, but my heart still always bleeds for this boy who has really only known a life of war.➽ Magnus Bane - Um, this man better be okay and quick, because his death would be the one that would undo me.➽ Alec Lightwood - When Alec put Zara in her place, and told her how lucky he would be to have Magnus love him forever, I was crying.
I don't think I could of done this alone!Just a pre-warning, I absolutely love anything Shadowhunter related, they're my favourite type of books and Cassandra Clare is my favourite author, so I will more than likely be gushing away.
The character development in this book was just outstanding."They stood in a line: the Shadowhunters, the warlock and the faerie prince.""The way I love you is fundamental to me, Emma.
I can't wait to read more!There's nobody else I'd rather be like than you, I Want you to be proud of me." - Livvy BlackthornLivvy, Sherlock and Watson Ty and Kit once again, I have no idea what so ever what is going on with this trio.
i don't know how to describe what i went through while reading this book, i don't know how to express my love for all of these beautiful characters and i don't know how to say anything else then AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAa in regards to that heart crushing ending.i think it's official to say that i now feel very differently about cassandra clare's books than i did a few months ago.i just..........
that's my brain.there's one thing i want to say though, and this is coming from a self-proclaimed (former) hater of cassandra clare: her books are so full of positive representation of all kind and i'm so, so happy about that.
The love triangles in the books get on my nerves so I wasn't drop everything and lets read it now.
There is something dreadful that happened at the end of the book and I don't even know what to say.
I love all three characters but I want to see Kieran with Christina because the times they were together there seemed to be something there.
Maybe I will read both books over again when the other one comes out in a million years from now.
My lactose intolerance doesn't agree with this book either; I ate two blocks of chocolate stressing out and now I'm banning myself from buying chocolate because boy do I want to cry some more.
UPDATE 14/05/17: PEOPLE ARE GETTING ARCS AND IM LAYING ON MY BATHROOM FLOOR CRYING BECAUSE LIFE ISNT FAIR AND I NEED THIS BOOK MORE THAN I NEED A BURRITO (aka very badly) EDIT: so many people are salty about this cover but guys anything trumps the original TMI covers - especially the first where it's just a chest.
So, we've come a long way.THE COVER HAS BEEN RELEASED.
throne of GLASS - city of GLASS (#TMI3) crown of MIDNIGHT - lady MIDNIGHT (#TDA1)heir of FIRE - city of heavenly FIRE (#TMI6)queen of SHADOWS - prince of SHADOWS(#TDA2)someone has some explaining to do here AHAHAHHAHAH*edit*: guys I just wanted to make it clear that I absolutely  love  both series. I didn't mean to accuse or criticize either of the authors- I just found it pretty cool that they had some similar themes running through their titles. Happy reading to you all <3 !
“He caught her by the wrist, brought her hand to his bare chest. Splayed her fingers over his heart. It beat against her palm, like a fist punching its way through his sternum. “Break my heart,” he said. “Break it in pieces. I give you permission.””  The hardest part of reading this book is you have to put up with an emotional influx, from what Clare always tangles the love of the main characters like Jace and Clary, or Jem and Tessa and Will, I am certain that Julian and Emma will break you ev
The hardest part of reading this book is you have to put up with an emotional influx, from what Clare always tangles the love of the main characters like Jace and Clary, or Jem and Tessa and Will, I am certain that Julian and Emma will break you even more like no one can.
I could see that his heart was so pure then, and his love for Emma is larger than life.
Not like Lady Midnight, Lord of Shadows doesn't have the mysterious atmosphere or thrilling investigation that I fell in love with.
And this makes me love Clare even more.
I am in shockCurrently questioning my life and what to do with it for the next two years while I wait for Book 3?Also can someone come pick up the broken pieces of my soul for me?
Thanks*Major Cliffhanger warning!* Quite possibly the worse cliffhanger I have ever read.
Clare ends this book at the height of major action without having resolved any of the storyline yet ...
✓Lock myself in a corner and watch my emotions get destroyed -✓Question my life and what I will do until book 3 is released - CURRENT SITUATION________________MUSIC SUGGESTIONSMUSIC SUGGESTIONS *Warming ...
“When a decision is made by the government it emboldens those who are already prejudiced to speak their deepest thoughts of hate. They assume they are simply brave enough to say what everyone really thinks.”  This book did not come to play.   ➽E M M A A N D J U L I A N  I will actually admit that, sadly, I did not like Emma and Julian’s dynamic… quite as much in this book. I think the tension between them read,, just a little dragged out in the wrong ways? I think this tension actually would h
Here, I just felt like the arc of their dynamic from book one was simply being repeated.I’m really into three-act structure, so here’s my recommendation: some kind of release of tension for them at the end of the first act (in the actual book, this would be when they’re in faerie); they actually get together for the first time at the end of the second act (this does occur in the actual book, but their motivations up until then feel, idk, muddied?) And the entire decision Julian and Emma make about the Clave just seems… I don’t know.
this review was originally posted on twirling pages Lord of Shadows left me feeling deceased.
ten pages into the book and MARK AND EMMA ARE A THING.
(more on this later) dru and jamie have this thing going on and i don't know how to feel about it.
as if we don't get enough of this in real life (at least in america right now), it's going on in the shadowhunter world too.
it’s weird how i saw these things more clearly after reading LoS – a story set in a fictional world.
imagine being so cruel that you end a book LIKE THAT AND HAVE NO REGARD FOR YOUR READER'S PAIN NO O NE TOUCH MEms. clare you better fix this mess you made of my soul ily but i need book 3 nOW ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~julian blackthorn marry me please and thanks Buddy read  with my little leek
I also highkey just want to punch Cassie for doing this to us.
How dare she 😭HELLO I AM BACK TO ROUND UP TO 5 STARS EVEN THOUGH ITS 4.5 BECAUSE AMBER REMINDED ME HOW CRAZY THIS PLOT WAS BUT LIKE IT WAS STILL MISSING A LITTLE SOMETHING BUT NOT ENOUGH TO KNOCK OFF A WHOLE STARTHAT IS ALL GOODBYEI feel nothing.
Fuck you Cassie Clare.
Fuck this book.
Fuck my feelings.
Only 4.5 stars because it dragged a bit and I felt nothing was happening for a while but I don't know how to feel oh my god.
I don't know how to feel anything other than broken and I can't believe we have to wait two years for the next book.
❝Emma, everyone's afraid of something. We fear things because we value them. We fear losing people because we love them. We fear dying because we value being alive. Don't wish you didn't fear anything. All that would mean is that you didn't feel anything.❞  I DID IT. After months of avoiding, slumping, and adulting... I FINALLY FINISHED. I spent weeks contemplating how I was going to rate Lord of Shadows and I've come to the decision that this sequel was probably a solid 3.5 STARS for me. It p
We were constantly switching over from the main storyline to side storylines and POVs that I really couldn't care less about which caused a lot of things to happen all at once and feel as though the book was all over the place.
Plus, some characters kept getting sidetracked with the most pointless things such as the bond between Mark and Cristina.
At one point, I was beginning to wonder if Emma/Julian/the Blackthorns were even the main characters in this trilogy anymore because we spent so much time with the love triangle (square if you count Perfect Diego) between Mark/Cristina/Kieran.
is this what death feels like (Being overly-dramatic) BUT STILL, this was one crazy ride and THAT ENDING. HOW. WHAT. WHY. WHYYYY. Two years is too long a wait for the conclusion. The Last Hours better be worth it.
time to reread this and cry all over again!!!also i feel like i'm enjoying this so much more the second time around??--------------------------- All the Shadowhunters were beautiful, like moonlight shearing off the edges of broken glass: lovely and deadly. Beautiful things, cruel things, cruel in that way that only people who absolutely believed in the rightness of their cause could be cruel.  I’ve been a massive fan of the Shadowhunters books for almost half of my life. I read TMI—the original
(I have a vivid memory of bringing a copy of City of Bones—you know, that old cover that had Jace’s shirtless chest on it—to the beach one day, and my friend’s mom thinking it was erotica and telling me that she didn’t think that book looked like it was appropriate for me.) I know there are some people who don’t particularly like the fact that CC has continued to write in this universe, but I personally love it.
I loved that scene in the start where they killed the Teuthilda demon at the pier.•RIP Magnus the fish•Mark is also going to be the death of me•I still don’t like Cristina :) :)•I was excited at first when it was mentioned that the Centurions were going to live in the institute as I thought we’ll meet some hot and sexy new Shadowhunters but damn it was I wrong.•I liked Manuel in the start but damn it was I wrong.
(He’s such a lying piece of utter SHIT)•Zara is a motherfucking bitch you piece of shit just fuck off.•I hate how Clary and Jace talk to Mark about Kieran.
Cassandra Clare certainly delivered.editMark (oc my fav character)I'm not gonna do the entire cast but I think this guy would make a great Mark bone structure n all and maybe lighter hair.I have found the perfect Tiberius Blackthorn!
Hmp :/ Julian is such a scary yet well developed and awesome character but I dont feel their spark.spoiler freeLiterally one of the cutest thing i have ever read Mark held up his plastic bag.
I love it!But maybe they could have put the image of the guy a little closer."Mark was kidnapped by the faeries brutal and bloodthirsty Wild Hunt five years ago.
