https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/249825.Five_Chimneys
Five Chimneys is Olga Lengyel's story of living through this period in the concentration camps of Germany.
Only when we link each of these terrible acts of mass murder by the state and admit that the mindset is always the same, and not separate different events.
When we admit that the Holocaust, the ethnic cleansing of the Balkans, Pol Pot's killing fields et al have the same root and do not differentiate them with different 'reasons' do we stand a chance of educating people into standing up for the truth and firmly, together, against any that would persuade them that mass murder would be the right course of action for them whatever the time or place might be.Rewritten 2 June 2013
Today, January 27, is International Holocaust Remembrance Day. On 27 January 1945, Auschwitz-Birkenau, the largest Nazi death camp, was liberated by Soviet troops.The victims of the Holocaust are commemorated every year on this day.
And it just so happened that on this special day, I finished reading jewish survivor Olga Lengyel's testimony about her experiences in Auschwitz-Birkenau, since her deportation in May 1944, together with her husband, their son and their newly adopted son, and her parents.
It is the most frank and detailed personal account of life in hell that was the extermination camp Auschwitz-Birkenau.
Que libro tan fuerte! Es increíble leer algo tan intenso y perturbador que sucedió hace no mucho! Increíble ver como se puede deshumanizar a las personas (victimas) y como pueden ser tan poco humanas otras personas (victimarios)... Qué triste que esto pasara. No puedo evaluar este libro, pues es algo tan fuerte y real que simplemente no puedo.
A fascinating, shocking, horrifying account of the authors time spent as prisoner at one of the most widely known concentration camps of the Second World War. She documents her time prior to her capture and her decision to follow her husband to the camps under the premise of hard labour.
New details are explored not necessarily noted in the history books.The authors own political views are interesting in some parts of her account.
Likewise, details of her life in post war would have been appreciated.
A heartbreakingly accurate portrayal of life in the death camps of Auschwitz.
Written in such a way that without going into graphic detail that could make one's stomach churn, it still manages to paint a picture so vivid of life within the death camps of Hitler's Germany that it leaves one feeling as if they were talking face to face with the brave woman who tells this true story of her survival of many years in camps where few lived more than weeks or months.
I first read the book that was tied to the movie and was so horrified by the `story' I had to learn more.I began by first reading Night by Elie Wiesel which for an introduction into the holocaust and all that entailed I was captured by not only the evil behind the massacre but also the strength and spirit of the prisoners held captive.
The only part of the book I thought was missing was how Olga fared in her life once she returned to the rest of the living world.
I however would have enjoyed knowing how she fared as her life went on.If you have an interest in furthering your reading, I would start with Five Chimneys, Night, & finish with I Have Lived A Thousand Years.
A lot of narratives have been written about the holocaust but this is the first, first-hand account I have read and what struck me was the matter of fact, no-frills way in which Olga Lengyel writes of her ordeal and subsequent survival of Auschwitz Birkenau.
To say it is told without compassion would be wrong but Olga writes with a kind of detachment from what she experienced, and I can’t help but wonder whether this was Olga’s coping mechanism throughout her ordeal and also as a way of living with it thereafter.
I read history for that reason, too.Anyways, it's a tough book to read, and another one of those books that I read in short bits at a time in order to think about what I actually read.
Lengyel writes very dispassionately, I think perhaps as her way of coping with the horrors?
But the dispassionate doesn't take away any part of learning about her experience; in fact, I think you really feel it all the more for her calm way of explaining what happened to her.
This book is worth reading, but I wouldn't make it my number one suggestion, either.
Un verdadero sin fin de emociones.Es imposible leerlo y no terminar dando gracias a la vida por no haber sido una de esas tantas personas que conoció el verdadero infierno.
It was very, very difficult to read a first hand account of the horrors of Auschwitz written by a woman who survived the camps, and written so soon after the experience.
My heart ached and my mind reeled as the author described the depravity of the Nazis and the horrible, horrible suffering inflicted upon all who went to the camps- Jews, homosexuals, gypsies, communists.
When he is told he must be shipped to Germany within the hour, Olga makes the worst mistake of her life in convincing the Nazis to allow her children, her parents, and herself to accompany him.
I was compelled to read this book, as if not doing so would be to disregard this story.
Uno de los libros que estuve buscando por mucho tiempo y cuando finalmente llegó a mis manos, terminó siendo más de lo que esperaba.Trama/Desarrollo: En este libro no van a encontrar la biografía de personajes que ya conocemos como Hitler, ni tampoco vamos a ver como eran los nazis.
Crudo, demencial, bestial, cruel, pesado, descarnado, terrorífico, angustioso, son adjetivos que resultan en eufemismos para rotular este libro y describir ese episodio tan vergonzoso de la humanidad como es el de la segunda guerra mundial.
Hay que ver también, como para esta valiente mujer se volvió motivo de vida salir del campo y contarnos lo que sucedió allí.
Entre tanto, el retrato que la autora hace de ella misma en los campos de concentración es sumamente honesto, una mujer realmente valiente!Se siente extrañeza, decepción y tristeza, pensar y sentir que el libro es bueno y de lectura necesaria, pero es justo e indispensable decirlo.
Some spoilers -This novel should be read by anyone who is currently breathing, not only to remind us of these things, but to ensure that we never hate another person to this level again.
She also describes what it was like for the other people in the camp and shares examples of incredible humanity in the midst of the horror.
However, as I mentioned above, I appreciated the honest portrayal of this horrendous time.I have read quite a bit on the concentration camps and World War 2.
I found this one to be one of the better ones when it came to not glossing over the facts.
It feels wrong to give a poor rating to any memoir, especially when its a holocaust survivor, but this book is in desperate need of an editor. The story is hard... harrowing... but above all: historic. If you're a history buff or someone be who reads a lot on this subject, this is another account to read. If you're looking to read a historical account for the first time, you may want to consider the contenders if you have trouble with poor writing.
It did not take me long to read Five Chimneys. It has to be one of the more graphic narratives I have read about the atrocities committed in German concentration camps. It was so difficult, at times, to read Olga Lengyel's accounts. One, of course, hears the stories and see documentaries regarding prisoners' treatment but, Lengyel does a good job of bringing the nightmares home to the reader. I highly recommend this book for those who dare to delve into this incredibly heart wrenching subject.
I have heard before, in passing perhaps, a sentence or two about how the conditions in the camp was even worse for the women than for the men.
Even by Auschwitz survivor stories standards, this chapter is particularly unsettling.
Why I have never heard of it before is a mystery to me.I feel like an absolute jerk for rating this book, no matter the amount of stars.
But I couldn’t go back to not rating it, and either way, that would have felt wrong too.Addition: Another piece of info from this book was new to me.
It’s like every paragraph in this book could be a subject for a study.
What it has not taken - and this is why I consider memoirs from the genocides of the 20th Century to be extremely important - is her integrity, dignity and ability to offer kindness to the world when given nothing but hell back.
Note: For Romanian readers of the book, it might come as no surprise that Holocaust denial is a huge issue in our country nowadays.
And it was with calmness that I took it to the board where I tally my list of reasons for which Holocaust deniers among my own people claim that Romania never took part - or worse - that the genocide didn't happen.
De los libros más completos sobre la vida en un campo de concentración (Birkenau en este caso) con todo detalle y muy explícito. Eso sí, me sobra el capítulo 13 porque no puedo evitar que me moleste leer cómo llama literalmente degeneración a la homosexualidad. Sí, es del año 1947, no se puede mirar con ojos actuales, pero se hace duro siendo además uno de los motivos de deportación.Pero es necesario quedarse con todo lo demás, ser consciente de hasta dónde llegó la crueldad humana, y tratar de que no pueda repetirse algo así...
El partido nacional socialista de Alemanía creó una idiología de odio fundada en el etnocentrísmo.
No se puede permitir de ninguna manera que prevalezca ninguna idea que tenga similitud con la equivoca teoría del superhombre ario.Olga Lengyel cumple con este libro su misión de advertir a la gente del peligro de que pueda repetirse una situación similar al adoptar las ideas del odio y del racismo.
Así mismo nos deja como legado una visión clara del infierno, lugar real que existe donde el odio y la perversidad del hombre degradan el espiritú, la mente y el cuerpo.Auschwits-Brikenau es parte de la historia, pero es claro que existen otros infiernos.
Qué libro, da para sentirse mal. Y cuánto realismo encierran sus páginas, mi admiración para la autora, que tuvo el valor para contar sin adornos la verdad. Lectura recomendable, para el que pueda con eso.
Un libro lleno de una cruda realidad...
Olga finds out that the five chimneys she saw on the concentration camp were the crematoriums for the children and the elderly which her children and parents were incinerated in.
She recalls her visits with the exceptionally beautiful but sadistic Irma Griese who brutalized the prisoners with sick enjoyment as she ran the women section for the Nazi's.
Olga describes her observations of Dr. Joseph Mengele, the ruthless Nazi camp doctor who made it clear the Jews were first for the extermination and the nightmare of watching him use the Jews as lab rats for their experiments.
HOWEVER it is a book that has to be read so that our generation and generations to follow will remember what happened to not just the Jewish population, but also Polish, Russian, French and the "undesirables"; Catholics, Jehovah's witnesses, mentally and physically disabled and Homosexual's because they didn't fulfill Hitler's idea of the perfect Aryan race; blonde, blue eyed and physically appealing men and women.
The females role was to have as many children as possible so to fulfill his plans for the Third Reich.If you only read one book about Auschwitz, then please read this one and hope that nothing of this magnitude ever happens again.
Olga Lengyel was an exceptional woman to experience all she did and survive. She spent years in one of the worst camps, lost her children, her mother, and later her husband but still she had hope. How would you, seeing hundreds or thousands of people go into the gas chambers everyday? But she did and she made it out to write this book so that the world would know what happened; so that it would never happen again.
Five Chimneys is one of the most detailed accounts of Auschwitz that I have read. I finished this right before I toured Auschwitz and having the account so fresh in my mind made even more of an impact as I toured the camp and thought about what those poor souls went through while living there. At the end of the book there were quite a few photographs, so this is one that might be better read in book form than an ebook.
¡Imposible encontrar las palabras adecuadas para describir tanta atrocidad e indignación! Incluso también, por momentos, difícil de creer que haya habido gente capaz de hacer tal cantidad de cosas en pleno siglo XX, aunque, indudablemente, sabes que todo lo allí plasmado es completamente cierto. Lo recomiendo totalmente, es un libro que, a pesar de todo, resulta fácil de leer y permite conocer un poco más algunas de las cosas sucedidas durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial.
I don't think I have the right to review a book such as this. It was heartbreaking, at times uplifting and, as with many books of this nature, overwhelming in its truthfulness. I haven't read a book that dealt with the camp experiences of the vast numbers of non-Jewish internees. It's important that we remember these victims and their stories too.
This is one of my keeper books. True story of a woman who ended up in Auschwitz and survived only thanks to her knowledge of the german language...I had to stop at times to process what I have just read as she doesn't hold back in the detailed description of what was going on in the terrible place.Very well written and a definitely 10/10 for me...
Te muestra detalles del holocausto, de los experimentos científicos con los judíos, tanto detalle se aprecia en el libro que hasta los olores se aprecian con todo lo que se describe. Altamente recomendable.
Nazis Were Not Consistently More Cruel to Jews Than to Non-JewsTHE ONGOING NAZI GERMAN MURDER OF POLISH PRIESTS AND OTHER POLESLarge numbers of Polish clergy were sent to Auschwitz in the early years of the camp.
210) and mostly Polish women were used by the Germans for vivisection experiments.
On the other hand, the German internees, whether common-law criminals, perverts, or political prisoners, benefited from certain privileges.
177-179), Lengyel comments: "Once we asked an Aryan German inmate, a former social worker, for the basic reason for the sterilization and castration.
