https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66469.Contagion
It boggles my mind how some writers earn their "best-selling author" status.
Clearly this is the case with Robin Cook, a mediocre writer at best.
I picked up "Contagion" because I had never actually read a Robin Cook novel before.
Perhaps "Contagion" wasn't the best one to start with, or perhaps I wasn't in a "medical thriller" mood when I read this, but it wasn't that good.
Again, it boggles my mind how Robin Cook earned his status as a best-selling author.
I will attempt to read another Cook novel to see if "Contagion" was a fluke, although my hunch is that it isn't...
Have you read any of Robin Cook’s books yet?
Contagion is also my first Robin Cook experience, so I won’t judge you for not having read any of his novels yet.
It might seem unlikely that a break-out with such devastating consequences as described in this story could occur in a real-life large, bustling, modern hospital, but I personally believe it’s possible.
You know what I liked most about Jack’s character?
Although, I did like how it ended for the antagonist(s), so I’m giving Contagion an easy five stars.
I bought this book because I had seen the recent movie titled 'Contagion' and thought that the two were one and the same.
I'm glad I did because the book was nothing like the movie other than being about an epidemic.
(Mostly near the end concerning the character 'Warren'.) As the end of the book approached, I had already guessed one of the two characters responsible but was completely surprised when the second one turned out to be someone I had not even given much thought to.
This had to be one of the very best books I have ever read! So entertaining and definitely a huge page turner!! A MUST read!!!!
Ya había comentado antes, que tengo, entre otros, un gran pendiente con Robin Cook, son de esos escr
Awesome Robin Cook!!!!There is nothing to dislike about Dr. Cook's writing!!! On point, accurate to the nth degree, just don't understand how he manages a practice and his outstanding writing. Jack and Laurie always pull you in. Wonderful book most especially entertaining for those in the medical field who understand the frustrations of hospital practices and policies, and those who rule over them.
Imagine weaving in and out of New York traffic on a 15 pound bike going about 30mph 3 inches between cars on a brisk morning in novemeber.Jack Stapleton a forensic pathologist did just that everymorning heating the ever so frequent honk of the horn or someone yelling explitives at him, but i guess u could say he was used to it.
who would have ever guessed it was a rare plague that was one of the most deadly."Dr. Jack Stapelton, New York's Medical Examiner, faces the biggest potential plague scare in decades.
A deadly but rare flu begins to slowly kill healthy people.
Wow! This might be the single worst ending to a book that I have ever come across. I won't spoil it for those that may choose to read it, but suffice it to say, Cook set up a very interesting story, and torpedoed it with an absolutely implausible, ridiculous ending.
Least favorite by Cook.
The group made conversations about their works and interests Terese thought of listening to jack’s opinions about the ad so that she can use that for her campaign for the National Health Company.For the next couple of days, Jack made another diagnosis of three rare arthropod-borne diseases; tularemia, Rocky Mountain spotted fever and Primary Influenza Pneumonia.
As jack got to confirm his diagnosis with the help of the lab, he also made site visits to Manhattan General that caused irritation to Mr. Kelley and Martin Cheveau.
Some of the characters were developed well for this genre, although the bad, evil corporate hospital guys were pretty much typecast.However, the ending!(In Keith Morrison of NBC Dateline voice: "Oh, that pesky ending") Imagine being on a fast train and suddenly stopping, or veering off track.
There was a scene where he was chased by the bad guys on some rapid river in the northwest.) I found them okay to read.
They are entertaining and quick and if you don't invest too much brain power into them, I think you'll be okay if you want something light and fun to read.
You can still enjoy it as a stand alone novel.Dr. Jack Stapleton NYC Medical Examiner has started to notice a disturbing tend at one of the local Mega hospitals - rare diseases are putting bodies in the morgue.
Deadly disease that have not been seen in decades.
Jack starts digging and thinks there is a conspiracy brewing.
He notices that not only are patients dying but also nurses and most confusingly personnel from central supply.
Is the hospital trying to knock off potential expensive patients to fatten up their bottom line?
Will Jack figure it out before the body count reaches epidemic proportions?
The novel starts off with a number of characters coming down with various deadly diseases while being treated at Manhattan General, and the main character Dr. Jack Stapleton becomes engrossed in trying to discover what really happened to these patients.
Soon Jack finds himself to be in way over his head as events continue to unfold.
Personally I have read a lot of mystery/thriller novels and have become quite good at figuring out the whole "who done it" aspect but in the end this novel really took me by surprise I was 1/2.
Contagion gripped my attention from the very beginning and just wouldn't let go, AN overall fantastic and worthwhile read.
This is the second Robin Cook that I have read recently.
It's been a number of years since my last one.I enjoy reading Robin Cook.
Jack Stapleton is a Medical Examiner in his first year working for the city of New York.
Someone puts out a contract to have him beaten up, but he still doesn't give up.Now, there is a real spoiler below this point.It was at the restaurant that I realized who Jack's opponent is.
When Therese went to the ladies room, she had to ask the Maitre'D where it was.
Yes, she said that she liked the restaurant, and went there often.
For a story of infectious disease and mysterious deaths, the hints could not have been more obvious, and the ending was just plain ridiculous.
No spoilers here, but when my first guess ends up being right that's no fun.
I usually completely fail to guess the mystery in every book I read.
Also, I get that some characters have 'plot armor' in every story, but there is such a thing as too much of it.
If the reader comes to expect the last minute save of a character every time it happens, it's not adding to the suspense or the thrill of the novel.
**For your information: I read this one in Spanish**The story keeps being interesting through the whole book.
Never a dull moment.
I would like to see more Laurie and Lou Soldano appearances in the novel, however, Dr. Stapleton is a complex and well developed character that I'd love to keep reading about.
I must say I didn't see YOUKNOWWHAT coming, not any clue.
I'm very pleased when a book surprises me.
What I least like about the book is the resolution, I mean, the very final part, for me it's like "and then, what?".Although I didn't like that, It was light and fun to read for a thriller lover.
I'm rounding up to 4 simply because for 90% of the book I was engaged and looking forward to see what would happen next.
The dialog in this book is awful and some plot elements are a bit of a stretch.
If I didn't know any better I'd think it was written by a teenager.
The ending, while a bit of a surprise, was still rather pedestrian.
I think I was hoping for a bit more.
This book helped pass the time but if I didn't note a review here I doubt I'll remember a single thing about it in a month.
That's not a bad thing.
He is ready for revenge and a vendetta.It soon comes in the form of some very unusual and rare bacteria/viruses infecting and killing patients at one of the Ameri-Care hospitals- Manhattan General Hospital.
Bizarre things happen including someone at Manhattan General hiring some gang members (from a rival gang, not Jack's ball playing buddies) to first rough up then try to kill Jack.
The bodies start piling up of both gang members and innocent people who get the terrible viruses that keep coming or who try to help Jack get info (they get bumped off).The question is- who is behind all of this?
I wouldn’t have finished the novel if I didn’t like Jack so much as a character and I didn’t find all the medical talk somewhat interesting.
I don’t think that is a bad thing on its own, but the book rambled on a bit about Jack and the hospital’s reactions to the diseases and their effects on the human body.
I think it’s a somewhat interesting book if you are reading it just out of curiosity about the modern medical world (sure the companies are fictional but still) and how various nonsocomial diseases are spread through a hospital.
Mortuariumarts ontdekt aantal zeer zeldzame ziekten die telkens de kop opsteken in Central ziekenhuis, maar geen epidemie worden. Hoe meer hij op onderzoek uitgaat, hoe meer hij tegengewerkt wordt. Tot aan aanslagen op zijn leven. Hij heeft wel steun aan reclame-ontwerpster die met campagne voor concurrerend ziekenhuis bezig is. Plot blijkt dan toch een speciale wending te krijgen, die maakt het verhaal wel wat gezocht, vandaar 3 sterren ipv 4.
This is my first robin cook book. I have been planning to read one for ages and finally got up to finishing one. This was very gripping and gave a lot of ideas as to how the contagion would have happened etc. Was a little surprised by the climax. Actually expected a lot more brutality towards the end. But the fact that all the chaos and mayhem happened for a trivial reason was a little out of reach. Expected greater benefit to be reaped as a result of all the deaths but in vain :(.
As a writer learning how to edit, how to write without the use of many adverbs, I would like to criticize this book a little. The story is so good, the characters so well described and fleshed out that I choose not to criticize but to praise. I wonder how the editors at Putnam let some of the usage get by but it doesn't make any difference to the story. It is exciting, contagious enough to make it a real epic (not epidemic) read.
Like other medical thrillers, this one too has medical jargon in it. Most of them are understandable to the fans of the genre and layman alike. The plot is quite similar to the other Jack and Laurie books. Jack stumbles upon something suspicious in the autopsy, investigates, gets in trouble, finds the culprit. It's an enjoyable thriller from start to finish.
An entertaining, oldie, but goody medical thriller, which I missed back in the days when it was new. (Hey, I didn’t have much time for reading in the mid-nineties!) I have read some Laurie and Jack books when they were on the *lists* so I’m enjoying getting the back story and becoming reacquainted! ;-)
Managed healthcare meets MAD MEN (or women). Dr. Robin Cook introduces readers to the cynically sarcastic Dr. Jack Stapleton who works to establish himself in New York City's Office of the Chief Medial Examiner. The reckless Dr. Stapleton is hellbent to discover the source of a Medieval pathogen plaguing Manhattan General Hospital while coping with his own personal tragedy.
Masterful Storyteller!! This was my first Robin Cook Novel and I was impressed!! I loved how he drew you into the story and kept you there!!! I'm not going to say anything about the story here, but to say it's well worth reading!! I will be reading more of his and he's become one of my favorite authors!!
I do enjoy Robin Cook's books, especially the medical thrillers. Viruses and such have always fascinated me. My only issue is that he tends to throw in a lot of medical jargon, which is ok sometimes but it tends to get a bit overwhelming. The ending was great and it's a book that I've read several times and I still enjoy it.
Contagion started out pretty slow, with too many medical terms (more than I’m used to from Robin Cook) and seemingly taking forever before Jack Stapleton realized there might be foul play. Although as a reader you do have some advance knowledge, I mean, you’re reading a Robin Cook novel, so there is bound to be foul play. But once it got going it was a great read, and the twist at the end was really good and (for me anyway) unexpected.
This was my first book by Robin Cook. Well, the man can write. But I somehow felt that I read so much and such an intriguing plot only to be let down at the end, by a motive that I would never have guessed, because it was such a flimsy one!! A great story, but a very disappointing ending!
I found the story behind this book was so completely plausible!! It was a story where I found myself compelled to read further whilst dreading reading as the story blurred between reality and fiction. A masterful story!!
