https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1448481.The_Diamond_as_Big_as_the_Ritz
A little amuse-bouche of the great F. Scott Fitzgerald, that starts off pretty "meh", but then takes a fun and unexpected turn into sinister fable territory about the trappings of wealth. I couldn't help but search for Gatsby-like jewels but not many were to be found. Hence, 3 glittering cubic zirconia stars.
John Unger goes to a posh university where he meets a posh chap who takes him to his family’s posh residence – a house built on a diamond as big as a mountain!
From his greatest creation, Jay Gatsby, to this, his most famous short story, Fitzgerald absolutely adores writing about the glamorous lives they led.
In comparison, Diamond is slow, boring, poorly written with nothing insightful to say – almost like a less talented writer is trying to parody Fitzgerald!
Both stories are essentially about the same thing but Gatsby does so in far better style – read that instead.
e Unger, que acaba por se apaixonar por uma das filhas de Washington, tem os seus dias contados.
Actos terríveis são cometidos por Washington de forma a preservar a sua riqueza, evidenciando uma obsessão por dinheiro que acaba por resultar na perda de valores morais.
Scott Fitzgerald arranjou uma forma bem real de ridicularizar a sociedade, narrando simultaneamente o romance de John Unger, a quem a provação em causa acaba por ensinar algumas coisas e desencadear o seu amadurecimento sem, no entanto, fazer com que ele perca um optimismo ligeira e propositadamente ridículo.
A charming, humorous, hallucinatory story about a young man who goes to visit a classmate's home in America's west for the summer. Only, it turns out the classmate's family is literally the richest in the world and has kept that secret from everyone, even the government of the United States. And unbeknownst to the young fellow, they have no intention of letting him go home alive.This is really a novella and a quick read. I very much enjoyed it. Some beautiful writing.
God, I loved this book.
But with The Great Gatsby being one of my favourite books of all time, I had no complaints.The book played with the same themes of extreme wealth and the disposable lifestyle that comes with it.
I never thought that I'd find characters more careless than Tom and Daisy Buchanan but the Washington family definitely outdid them, going to extreme lengths to preserve their lifestyle.Fitzgerald writes with the same elegant prose he uses to describe intricate scenes of wealthiness and on that point, he never fails.
The novella was dark, humorous, and had many a quote-worthy line, all qualities found in any of my favourite books.
Just a really lovely, tasty bite of Fitzgerald. Just a gorgeous little read.
Unger finds himself in when his friend, Percy Washington, brings him home to the “only five square miles of land in the country that’s never been surveyed.” It’s a long story, and I won’t spoil it for ya, but the Washington family basically has hidden itself from the rest of America, protecting this gigantic single diamond that is the size of a mountain and camouflaged as one.The overwhelming wealth of the Washington family means indescribable luxuries that take on the quality of magic.
It’s a different Fitzgerald than the one to which I’ve become accustomed, but this book, more than anything, makes you feel like you’re floating.
I see that most people have given this short story a high rating.
It's a fantasy in which Fitzgerald parodies people of great wealth and the extremes they will go to to maintain that wealth.
There is little or no insight here.In fact anyone who bothers to learn about Fitzgerald's life will recognize what a hypocrite he is.
So he criticizes the excesses of the wealthy but wants to be just like them!By the way, I really liked "The Great Gatsby." As others have mentioned, it's almost as if someone else has written "The Diamond as Big as the Ritz."
I loved this little "gem" of a story (see what I did there?). Fitzgerald is a master of words and descriptions, and this exceeded all my expectations. The description of the chateau was amazing, and the actual plot sinister, like a dark devil's cake hidden by a innocent pristine icing.
Such a weird little story; so well written and compelling.
This is not, by any means, my favorite story of Fitzgerald's. I had a difficult time getting into the story, and then he hooked me when we found out Kizma's father had been killing off her previous summer boyfriends. But then before I knew it, the story was over and it went from zero to a hundred in a matter of pages. In my opinion, this story was missing the finesse that I have come to associate with Fitzgerald's writing. Still a decent story, but far from my favorite.
This short story was ridiculous in the best way -- funny and offering some real social commentary. It was very interesting to hear what Fitzgerald had to say about the rich, class, secrecy, and privilege, and compare it to what society is like today.
This story is similar to the Great Gatsby but with a fantasy element that's very dark. It's about the pursuit of wealth and the lengths people will go to get it and keep it. I listened to it on Audible Channels and really enjoyed it.
And by that I mean it's been over two weeks since I've read it and now is the first chance I've had to review it.
Fitzgerald never disappoints!
This one reads a bit more like a fairy tale - diamonds and impossible riches - rather than the heavy handed social commentary I've become accustomed to after reading novels like  The Great Gatsby and This Side of Paradise however I thoroughly enjoyed this variance.
A quick read that's easy to digest.
Unfortunately for this review it's also fairly easy to forget.
I stand by my theory that Fitzgerald is a fabulous writer!
Scott Fitzgerald)
While I was definitely prepared for the characters to be wealthy jerks (it is Fitzgerald, after all), I had not braced myself for this bit of nearly-fantastical storytelling.
The story is like this: John Ugent is a boy from Hades, Mississippi (again, I was more than prepared for the obvious Fitzgerald-esque metaphors here) who is sent off to the finest all-boys boarding school in the world, where he succeeds at making friends with some of the richest kids in the country.
When one of his newly found friends invites John to stay at his house for the summer, shit gets weird and creepy.This little novella was a pretty delightful read.

Discovering this novella that was unknown to me, I dived in with confidence. The end result: what the hell was that? Take mythological archetypes & major slabs of irony and black humour, mix strongly with American dream tropes & Fitzgerald's keen eye for the absurdities of privilege...and the end result is a brief yet explosive literary cocktail that left my head spinning. It was fascinating from start to finish...but a dozen other impressions about this book are fighting for my attention. I wonder which one will finally win out...
This is sort of a dark fairytale, and albeit somewhat ridiculous in points (though it is Fitzgerald, so what do you expect), it was wholly entertaining and I quite enjoyed it.
read a long time ago. Loved.
I was excited to read this short piece, having heard so much about it, proclaimed to be one of Fitzy's most famous short stories.
It was fantastical, a bit surreal, there was a slight element of the ominous in it and I was excited.
Here, his writing felt too dense, trying to fit in every exciting story arc-love, racism, segregation, conspiracy theory, thrilling aircraft chases, materialism, friendship-into one bloated story.
Here, and only here, can we see a bit of the Fitzgerald that we know and love.
"La juventud es como sueño para todos, una especie de locura química".Hay algo en las narraciones de Fitzgerald que me atrae demasiado, su manera de describir las cosas me encanta. En fin, es una historia muy entretenida, para nada es mi tipo de personajes pero en cierto modo eso hizo mi experiencia de lectura más interesante. Ya conocemos el estilo del autor, muy clasista y extravagante en sus temas, pero me tiene fascinada, ya quiero leer más de él.
I thought The Curious Case of Benjamin Button was an atrocious book (nonetheless a fantastic film adaptation) but this, on the other hand, is brilliant - a very promising short story. It's beautifully written, very imaginative and poetic, and I only wished it was longer.
El inicio me encanta, tiene un punto algo fantástico que me ha sorprendido para bien. Eso sí creo que va de más a menos, se va desinflando un poco la historia hacia el final.
Very nice sinister little tale.
4/5 stars
2.5/5
F. Scott’s take on sci-fi is as smart and insightful as anything he’s done. What a writer. Though I’m quick to add that, as with a lot of his other stuff, there are troubling racial depictions.
''დიდი ცოდვა ჩაიდინა მან, ვინც ცნობიერება გამოიგონა. მოდი, რამდენიმე საათით მაინც დავკარგოთ იგი.''
I loved this short story by F. Scott Fitzgerald, i just think his storytelling is a work of art itself. The story is quite fast paced, beautifully told and discusses a common theme of Fitzgerald's (wealth and greed) in a way that is accessible more to younger readers than his other works.
“Everybody’s youth is a dream, a form of chemical madness” how does Fitzgerald come up with these knockout lines? They type hammer themselves into your mind. Judging from a quick google search, i’m one of the last to be aware of this one. I now know what Will Self’s short was ‘inspired’ by. Great little story.
