https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/377891.The_River_at_Green_Knowe
The third of six in the Green Knowe series. Green Knowe is based upon an actual English house where author Lucy Boston lived: The Manor at Hemingford Grey built in the 1130s complete with moat and gardens; it is one of the oldest continuously occupied houses in Britain.  I can't believe Mrs. Oldknow (and Tolly) to whom readers have become attached in the first two books.... are simply gone with no clear explanation --- and a whole new cast of characters inhabit Green Knowe for the summer! Am I
The third of six in the Green Knowe series.
I can't believe Mrs. Oldknow (and Tolly) to whom readers have become attached in the first two books....
are simply gone with no clear explanation --- and a whole new cast of characters inhabit Green Knowe for the summer!
I just can't be fair in my response since my expectations about the series being about Mrs. Oldknow and Tolly and Green Knowe's past...
The likable Ping is the only character from this grouping who seems to survive to reappear in a main role in other books.
In the next book, The Treasure of Green Knowe, I missed the ghostly but gentle Toby, Linnet and Alexander Oldknow, but I reveled at the return of Tolly and Mrs. Oldknow and the introduction of two 18th century child ghosts, Susan Oldknow and Jacob, a freed slave.
As the title implies, the book also focuses on the river rather than on the Green Knowe mansion itself.
What with its shrinking and growing, fantasy creatures and time travel, The River at Green Knowe turn into equal parts Alice in Wonderland and The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe — but without the charm of either — and simply doesn’t measure up to the first two books.
Would a modern child be able to travel with her?Two eccentric old women, Dr Maud Biggin, an archaeologist, and Miss Sybilla Bun, a cook, eater and provider of food for others rent the old house Green Knowe for the summer and invite two displaced children, Oskar and Ping, as well as Maud’s niece Ida to share it with them through the summer.
There is no sexualising of the children: Oskar and Ida are eleven, Ping is nine, and all sleep together in the attic, on one occasion in the same bed.
The River at Green Knowe is the third book that I've read in the series by Lucy M.
Boston and I found it to be as enchanting as the others.In this story, the children - Ida, Oskar and Ping - go to stay at Green Knowe with Ida's Great Aunt Maud and her friend, Miss Bun. The adults let the children plan their own summer holiday, so Ida, Oskar and Ping embark on wonderful adventures along the many waterways around the house.For me, the charm of the story lies in the descriptions of the river and the wild life.
I was surprised that this book is almost entirely unrelated to the earlier ones in the series.
The only link is the location.
All the magic that we have come to expect from the house was absent - it could have easily been set somewhere else.
This book had some things in common with Coot Club and Secret Water by Arthur Ransome.
Some adventures were entirely realistic, and others were fantastical.
Related to that, there's a little bit of political content, certainly more than in the earlier books.
We also get a bit of thoughtful philosophy, which isn't unwelcome.
More episodic then the other books in the series, this is still rewarding. Very well written, with nice set pieces. Still, and it is very fresh in my mind, this is my least favorite of the five early books. I missed Mrs. Oldknowe and Tolly.
It had changed its friendly old fairy-tale quality for something far older and terrifyingly different.'But though I like the characters and the humor in the two matrons, this volume in the series has none of the coziness or magic of the first two.
I miss Tolly and Mrs. Oldknow's quiet evenings of storytelling, and Tolly's exploring within and on the grounds of Green Knowe, finding more traces of its old inhabitants each day.
When I first read the Chronicles of Green Knowe, I skipped The River at Green Knowe and A Stranger at Green Knowe because they didn't contain Tolly or the house spirits. I realize now that was foolish. This book was wonderful that I'm sorry that the characters of Oskar and Ida don't reappear in any of the later books. I would have liked to see an adventure with Oskar, Tolly, and Toby.Warning: The River at Green Knowe contains a lot of magical happenings, so it requires a greater suspension of disbelief than the other books in this series.
This is my favorite one of the series so far!! Scrumptious and beautiful with just the right mix of reality and fantasy. I didn't want it to end and will be thinking of their adventures for many days. At first I was disappointed to not meet Tolly and his grandmother, but Ida, Oskar, and Ping have become new heroes and the two aunts kept me laughing. Such a gorgeous book.
No one writes about nature and the countryside as beautifully as do the British.
I grew up with this series and as an adult am so impressed with the authors of this time, like Boston, who never thought to talk down to children in their writing.
This volume, number three in the series, does not bring in the characters from the previous books.
Instead it is comprised of adventures, sometimes magical, for three children who stay with a preoccupied archeologist and her cook at Green Knowe manor for a summer, with total freedom to explore the world around them.
recommended for anyone interested in displaced persons, solipsism, and/or speculative fictionThis book is still completely relevant 58 years after publication.
Two of the three main characters are "displaced persons," and they have an increased sensitivity toward other things that are displaced, such as cygnets and abandoned houses.
One of the characters points out how "what isn't noticed isn't there." One of the characters says, "They don't send Displaced Persons home.
They put them in camps."This book is also a brilliant exploration of solipsism.
Boston sets up the story with a very realistic feel, so the readers sometimes have to retrace their steps to figure out what's happening when a character becomes mouse-sized or when horses have wings.
A strange blend of the real and the fantastical. Very dated now - written in 1959 - but the book has an undeniable charm, especially if you know the house and the river that inspired it ...
Some of the dreamy quality of the children's excursions keeps bringing me back to this (audiobook)
I didn't realize this was a children's book until I got a few pages in but I ended up liking it anyway. Three children have a wonderful fantasy adventure in the English countryside.
This book maintained LM Boston's lighthearted tone so points for that, but the focus was too scattered to really make this a driven cohesive story.
Again not my taste, with a kind of fantasy magic, but a post-war response to traumatic experience.
I did find it a bit odd that Granny and the MC of the first two books rented out the house after finding the Treasure of Green Knowe (if it's in the title it's not a spoiler), and also that there is no explanation of why.This time we see a couple of English spinsters living in the house with three "displaced children" (one of whom is the head spinster's niece) for the summer.
In that case there wasn't much to do in our village, but it was basically "don't do it here." There's a much stronger fantasy element in this book; the kids have some pretty incredible adventures, with Ping (the Asian DP) as the catalyst in most cases--he "thinks it" and it happens.
Lucy Boston's first and original book, The Children of Green Knowe has long been a favourite of mine - a ghost story with a hint of fantasy set in the quietly mysterious Fens.
Six years ago I visited the actual Green Knowe house and had a tour of the Norman manor house in Hemingford Grey by Lucy's daughter, Diana Boston.The second book in the series, The Chimneys of Green Knowe is a similarly fantastical time-shift story, but this third installment lacks for most of the story any of the ghost or fantasy elements of the story.
The three children, Oskar, Ida and Ping, are likeable, but they're not Tolly or Toby (from the first books), and the house was much less of a presence in this book.The river was more present, however, since all the children's adventures take place as they make excursions in a canoe, and this gave the book something of a transient feel - we know that these children are only guests in the house, there for a short few weeks until the real owners return, and their travels on the river only add to this impermanent feel to the book.
My daughter and I found ourselves looking forward to the next book, when the newcomers flow away like their enchanted river and the "real" Green Knowe characters come back.
I don't remember reading this book in the series when I was young.
Three strange children on the river that flowed by Green Knowe...I could tolerate this book at best.
The islands of the river and the story of their names bestowed by the children were each increasingly amazing, fantastic, and finally, mesmerizing.
But my favorite was the final island - where an ancient cathedral sat in the place of Green Knowe.
It confirmed what readers have always known: the magic of Green Knowe has always been there.
Book three in the Children of Green Knowe series is a good enough fantasy story, but so different than the first two that it didn't seem part of the series at all.Mrs. Oldknow is away and has evidently let the house for the summer to two friends, Dr. Maud Biggin and Miss Sybilla Bun. They've sent for two refugee boys to stay with them for the summer, Oskar from Poland and Ping from China, and are also hosting Dr. Biggin's niece, Ida. The children are unsupervised by the two eccentric women, and spend their summer having a variety of fantastic adventures on the river in an old canoe.
Part of a six-book series, this book is uniquely entertaining: magical, surprising, and a little, just a little, frightening, it capitalizes on the feeling that the oldest houses keep some of their history within their walls.
This chapter introduces three new children, and their adventures on the "river" that borders Green Knowe.
They discover a magical island, and a "Robinson Crusoe" type hermit, among other fascinating things.
L.M. Boston is not just presenting a run-of-the-mill ghost tale, but has invented what appears to be a new genre, and given it an authentic flavor with adequate background details without overwhelming or distracting from the story.
It should have taken me a couple of hours to read but, instead, took me a couple of days, because I don't like to give up.
The story didn't flow - it is about three children who set out each morning in a canoe to try to find adventures on a nearby river.
Somehow strange/magical things happen to them on their journeys, which then disappear with no explanation (like one of the children shrinking for a short period of time).
It felt cobbled-together and I wouldn't want to read it again, let alone share it with children.
Tolly mentions at the end of the previous book being able to use some of the money from the jewels to go to Cornwall next summer, so his and Granny's absence from this book seems natural.
I love Oskar and Ida and Ping, and despite some dated references to Ping's ethnicity, these children make lovely new protagonists.
The river takes center stage here, with the house off to the side--after all, it wouldn't do to have strangers discovering the house's secrets and history, would it?
This is a lovely lazy summer story of magical river adventures, sort of like The Wind in the Willows, but with children instead of animals.
Really nice, gentle fantasy story about three kids spending the summer at the old house at Green Knowe, where they are promptly ignored by all the adults and so spend their days exploring the magical river.Fantasy and reality mixed so smoothly that the magical elements never seem jarring. One day they find an old, abandoned house on an island the next they meet a giant.Like 'Wind in the willows', it celebrates all the little moments that can make life fun, while having the occasional big adventure.
Possibly my least fav of the series of 5 because Tolly is missing and there are some rather pointed references to Ping's slanted eyes and different ways. I also didn't like that they renamed him so his name could be pronounced. There is definitely some racism in this book.There are good adventures though.I didn't like either of the adults much, both were too distant and it wasn't believable that they had no idea what they did all day despite the river nearby.A pleasant read but definitely the weak link.
I am reading this (the third book in the series) after having read the first book but without having read the second book. Perhaps I would rate it 5 stars if I knew why the house was no longer occupied by Oldknowes (who seem to have completely decamped, furniture, toys, and ghosts and all). The story itself is a good childhood story with loosely connected episodes centered less on the house than on the river.
I like it because I love all Children of Green Knowe books, but...it is my least favorite of the series. The regular characters are gone for this book and new characters are here (but don't worry the regular characters will come back for the next books). This book takes place more outdoors and not so much inside the house (another reason I didn't like it as much). But there are good worthwhile things about it- I just think the other books in the series are better than this one.
This children's story is a charmer. I reread it yesterday. It is a short delightful read involving Ida and two displaced children, Oskar and ping, who have the freedom of Green Knowe for a summer. As this is Lucy Boston writing the adventures the children have are bound to be fantastic. And they are.The book is a nice easy read for children, a goodone to read to children and a piece of gentle nostalgia for adults who want to remember their own magical moments of childhood imagination.
After my initial disappointment that it did not feature Tolly and the ghost children wore off, I really enjoyed this book. The new children are great characters, the adventures they have are magical, and some of the conversations they have border on the philosophical and spiritual. The book is so well written you feel like you are there with them. The characters of Miss Bunn and Dr Biggin are really interesting, and I'm sorry they didn't feature in it a bit more.
