https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17332969-the-100
A terrifying plan began to take shape, and his chest tightened in fear as he realized what he would have to do. But Wells knew there was no other way. To save the girl he loved, he’d have to endanger the entire human race. FUCK YOU, WELLS. There is another way. You stop being a selfish motherfucker whose brain is located in your fucking penis.This book is not a dystopian novel of a spaceship society. It's not a post-apocalyptic tale of survival. It's not about the nitty gritty of life within a
Specifically, more than 100, but 100 criminals (all of them teenagers, ranging from 12 years old to 18) have been sentenced to go repopulate the poisonous Planet Earth to see if it's habitable or still poisoned and deadly to humans due to radiation.
And when we're finally told the reason, I just wanted to slap the girl upon the head, because I have a lot of sympathy in me, but stupidity doesn't deserve it.We also get to hear the stories from the POV of Bellamy, Wells, and Clarke as they go to Planet Earth and fall in love.
NONE OF THEM EXIST HERE),- more strong female characters,- paradoxically less focus on shipping despite creating a new love triangle,- extremely compelling plot with the adults in the Ark,- and the wonderful acting of the people inhabiting all these characters (JUST LEAVE ME HERE TO DIE).I feel awful for saying it, but the book felt like an AU fic to the superior show, its main benefits coming in backstory & more Bellamy scenes & Bellamy/Clarke scenes because this is a situation, okay, you don't even want to talk to me about Bellarke, I've fallen down the rabbit hole and I'm never getting back out and I could write essays on them and please send help I am not okay...
My recaps of the show! Episode 1 - The Embodiment of StupidityEpisode 2 - To Survive, Be IdiotsEpisode 3 - Everyone is Valuable, Except The Guy I HateEpisode 4 - Double Standard Much?“This shit is going to be a TV show?” was the first thing I thought of when I turned the last page of this book.I was initially interested in 100 by Kass Morgan when I found out it was going to be adapted into a TV show on CW channel (I think. I may have got this wrong, so please correct me if I got it mixed up!).
The general plot sounded like something that could attract A LOT of twists and conspiracies!And then the romance came...Which pretty much ruined this book for me.What would you feel if you were stuck in a planet, all by yourself and 99 other strangers (okay, make that 97 because OF COURSE there has to be a love interest and that mandatory best friend), a planet, which, may I remind you, has been labeled toxic due to the immense radiation in the past?
OMG!!! This book. Bellarke FEELS!! If you watch the show and you're a Bellarke shipper you'll love it! ♥ There were characters missing from the show,like Finn or Jasper and Raven. BUT we had others to keep us company. Glass and Luke are so cute and their story is amazing! Octavia is less fierce in the books. And we had lovely POVs of lots of different characters,so that was interesting. Now the important stuff. BELLARKE. BELLAMY AND CLARKE. CLARKE AND BELLAMY. OTP ♥ I adore them so much!! Beautifully written book,easily read,small and satisfying. LOVED IT ♥
I didn't hate this. I thought I would but I didn't.I think if I hadn't already watched the show, and loved these characters I would have been extremely annoyed and frustrated with them. But since I went into the book with love of the characters and the world, things that typically would annoy me didn't. But yeah I honestly only liked this because I love the show so much and because I FINALLY got a Bellarke kiss
Hate it!!• Wells is basically a creepy stalker, rather than a guy who wants Clarke to be happy even if he can't be a part of that• Octavia is whiny and annoying rather than being a badass with a great character arc• where the fuck was Lincoln• No Raven Reyes whatsoever • was her character based on Glass??
In contrast Raven is my fucking wife• No subversion of a typical love triangle, meaning no takedowns of girl hate, meaning no book version of the Spacewalker episode, meaning no Raven and Clarke's gorgeous beautiful perfect relationship• Every single character is white and straight??
DNF at 182 pages. It's not bad, it's just not terribly engaging, and there are too many POVs. Best to stop at this line:There was no drug strong enough to repair a broken heart.
Where the show is about survival, the book is - primarily - about human stupidity and the ridiculous shit we will do for "love".
What this means is that I would do anything for love, to a point.
It's not that I don't believe that someone would do it, it's that I think it sends the absolute wrong message.(view spoiler)[Wells, isn't so "in love" with Clarke that he CAN NOT watch her die, people watch those they love die every day!
Wells is SOOOOOO selfish that he would let all of humanity die just at the chance of saving her because he's AFFRAID.
One of the fav. books I've read this year. The idea is so new and unique its perfectly plotted and the characters are well developed and not TSTL. Clarke is strong and badass, Bellamy is...well.. HOT. The chemistry between them is so adorable. I liked Wells too. And the tv show is soo good!
If only it was tightened up with better character development and a stronger dedication to world building instead of establishing the romantic angle, it could have been a real page turner.
We do get flashbacks throughout the book, which I first assumed would give us insight into the world and its characters, but it merely expands the romance with nothing but minor glimpses at the happenings inside the ship.
If the author puts effort into making her world solid and her plot sustainable, I think it could be one of those that's better rated as a series than its individual installments.
The top of the review space says : What did you think?What did I think?
That's what I think.
That's what I think.
DNF @ 40%.There were too many PoV's.
As well, there were too many flashbacks for too many PoV's.
And let's not forget that I get iffy when there's too much flirting/pining/romance when it starts to choke out a great sci-fi concept.
When all the kids ran off the ship in a very non-cautious and jubilant way, I think my mouth dropped open.
What did you expect?"I think I'm gonna have to give teens way more credit than that.
4,5 Empecé a leer el libro por que la serie de Los 100 me encantó y dije bueno vamos a ver que tal, y ahora mismo estoy enamorada.
Bueno voy a dejar de comparar el libro con la serie, pero me ha encantado.Es una lectura rápida y muy entretenida y todos los puntos de vista te hacen ver como viven y por qué cada uno hizo lo que hizo y me impresionó ver cómo muchos de ellos se han sacrificado tanto por otros, no sé, es genial.
Si queréis leer algo rápido que engancha y que tenga muchos sentimientos conflictivos, Los 100 es infinitamente recomendado.
I've been watching the show since it first aired and am ashamed to admit I didn't know there was a book it was based on.
Having read this, I understand why changes were made for the show's purposes but I feel the book really did more with the characters.
Nonetheless, it was entertaining with a few genuine twists whether or not you've watched the show.
I'll eventually read on with the series to see what comes of it but I'll say it's an exciting, interesting start so far.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I picked The 100 up because I’m a bookaholic and I can’t control myself as one of NetGalley’s “read now” selections. All I knew going in was that this is currently a television series on the CW Network. Now, I’ve watched enough of the CW to know that (excluding the delicious train wreck called “Makeover Day” on America’s Next Top Model) the viewership (which, at times, includes myself) tends to land in one of the following camps: 50% D
However, it being a program on the CW network, I wasn’t really expecting it to be the next Lord of the Flies like the publishers would lead me to believe.
Heck, I wasn’t even holding out hopes for something like this:
Think of this as a giant introduction – you’re dealing with backstory and character history/development of FOUR narrators (plus their families/significant others), along with world building, etc., etc., but there’s not a whole heck of a lot covered with respect to the nitty-gritty of what happens to “the 100” after their arrival on Earth.
Crossing my fingers for a little less talk and a lot more action in in the next installment.ARC provided by NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
Saw a clip for the CW show, and all I can say is that it looks awesome! Now, I'm super excited for this book. Plus...this is generally what I think about YA books being made into television shows:
Este libro me atrapó muchísimo, creo que es por el parecido con Lost (mi serie favorita), ya que esta contado de la misma forma y el punto de partida de la historia también es similar. La historia tuvo picada mi curiosidad hasta el final, incluso los capítulos finales fueron los más intrigantes de todos.
As nuclear and biological war threatened to destroy Earth, space had been the only option for those lucky enough to survive the first stages of the cataclysm.
They send juvenile children to a desolate, possibly radiation soaked planet with no way to communicate with them and I just had to shake my head.There are four main characters, each with their own POV: Clarke, Wells, Bellamy and Glass.
It contributed nothing to the plot and I felt that it was an absolute waste of space.After finishing this book, I was actually extremely wary about watching the show.
I think I might actually want to read book 2 someday.
I didn’t hate it, it was definitely a good story but I didn’t love it either, mainly because of the writing style.
The ones I hated:Wells:The stupidest idiot I’ve ever read about.
Clarke :Not my favorite main character, even though there was nothing really wrong with her but I just couldn’t connect with her or relate to her at all.
The ones I liked :Bellamy & Octavia :I actually loved their story line especially all the flashbacks about their past and everything they’ve been through to keep Octavia alive.
She was just jumping back and forth between two guys (Bellamy and Wells), which is a huge turn off for me.
I'd heard that the book was very different to the show, and since I love the show, I wasn't too sure on what to expect.
However, this book was exactly what I needed to feed my cravings whilst the tv show is on break until later in the year!The story is different, and I liked hearing about the characters that have no appearance on the show.
Although, if I hadn't watched the show before I'd read the book, I highly doubt I would've liked it as much as I did.
It's been a full 24 hours since I read this, but I CANNOT stop thinking about it! I am obsessed. I am sitting here impatiently waiting for the last two books in the series to get in my mailbox so I can marathon them both. Probably in one sitting. It's that good. This is one of those books that completely surprised me, and a combination of beautiful (and seemingly effortless) writing, plus really cool characters, and an AWESOME/totally original storyline has sucked me in and consumed me.READ. THIS. BOOK.
The show is one of my favourites of all time, but the book just left me disappointed.(except that one character that dies in the show in the first few episodes but is not dead in the books, although he is very hate-able in the book but likable in the show)It is:(view spoiler)[Wells (hide spoiler)]Also Finn is not in the book, I have no idea why there are covers with his face on, he is literally an invention for the show.
Yep I must have definitely skipped that part in the book since the plot has no development.Characters: So you know Bellamy?
First read: July 2015 - 3.5 starsSecond read: May 2016 - 4 starsStill: an amazing start to an amazing trilogy! I don't know why these books aren't more popular, the plot is fantastic, the characters feel so real, it's so good!
I quite enjoyed this book. Loved seeing the different perspectives and flashbacks, those added a little something extra to the novel.It was also fun picking out the similarities and differences to the TV Show, which I love so much.I didn't feel a great connection to the characters in this book, but there was definitely something there, so hopefully it grows when I read the next 2 books!
Diziye neden sinir olduğumu anladım. Harika bir kitabı katletmişler lan. Olmayan karakterler üretmek mi dersin, hali hazırda harika iki karakteri silmek mi dersin oohooo. Yorumu yakında gelecek. Üstelik epey uzun olacak çünkü sinirliyim -,-
Er is een serie van de boeken gemaakt, deze ging op 19 maart 2014 in première op The CW.
Het lijkt een onmenselijke oplossing: 100 jeugdgevangenen worden teruggestuurd naar de aarde om te zien of ze kunnen overleven.
Voor Glass betekent het dat ze iemand moet achterlaten tegen wie ze nooit meer zal kunnen zeggen waarom ze echt werd opgepakt.
Ik heb mensen horen zeggen dat het boek en de serie niet op elkaar lijken, dus ik ben benieuwd.
Ik heb weer een nieuwe serie erbij.
Ik ben benieuwd naar de andere 2 delen en de serie.
Of course, it's very much season 3 Battlestar where things started going a bit off the rails, with some people on planet in weird costumes and Gaius Baltar becoming some sort of religious figure on the ships.
Clarke's actually one of the stronger characters and Glass, though I didn't like her, does make choices for herself.Anyway, these teens live on a spaceship and things are kind of a hot mess on board.
It's fun and a nice choice for when you don't want to have to think too hard, and sometimes that's just the kind of book you need, you know?
What a shame.I like the concept of The 100 yet almost the whole book was all about love-- kissing, saying "I love you" and whatnot.
Really characters, this is supposed-to-be a story of survival and discovery, not love.
Not that I had issues about love but this love engulf or slay the promising premise and left the world of the book hanging and uninteresting.Despite of that, I like the idea when the characters remembered their past supplying me knowledge about them; about why they acting like that, and somehow completing the puzzle.
I also like the idea that nobody or none was perfect after all.
Wells katıksız mal. *sorrynotsorry*
The door slid open, and Clarke knew it was time to die.   Too many POV's for my taste... (Clarke and Bellamy's POV was perfectly fine for me, but Wells and Glass was okay in the start, but then I started losing interest in them, specially Wells..) , but I love ALL the Bellarke scenes! And yes, you have guessed it, I'm a HUGE Bellarke fan! Though, I had expected a love-hate relationship between Clarke and Bellamy like in the TV-show, but I guess you kinda have to separate the book and the show,
(Clarke and Bellamy's POV was perfectly fine for me, but Wells and Glass was okay in the start, but then I started losing interest in them, specially Wells..) , but I love ALL the Bellarke scenes!
Though, I had expected a love-hate relationship between Clarke and Bellamy like in the TV-show, but I guess you kinda have to separate the book and the show, because the were A LOT of different from each other..
I felt no hatred, no dislike toward her at all, though I was afraid I would because of the love triangle I know was going to be in the book.
Ревю => http://justonebooklover.blogspot.com/...~ ~ ~Преди няколко дни завърших книгата "Стоте", но все още съм в еуфория от прочитането ѝ! Обожавам сериала, който е по книгите! Не очаквах двете да са толкова различни, но и двете - толкова поглъщащи. В епицентъра на сюжета стоят четирима тийнейджъри, извършили тежки престъпления и получили втори шанс на Земята, която не е обитавана от векове, заради радиация. В сюжета, освен антиутопичния елемент, са вплетени и екшън, няколко любовни истории и лични драми и трагедии.
