https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129984.Big_Fish
When I first bought a copy of this, just before they began releasing the movie coast-to-coast in 2003, I remember reading the back cover and thinking to myself: “Huh, a book about a man who doesn’t really know who his father is…how mundane.” O, how silly my thoughts were—this story is anything but mundane.
The story is simple: Edward Bloom is dying, and his son, William Bloom, wants to know the truth of who his father really was as a person.
I cannot think of a better story that exemplifies the strange relationship between a father and his son.
I'm glad to read this amazing book actually more than book teach you more stuff and nothing impossible in this life but just don't give up and finally my favorite book this year
Three days after my mama’s caesarian operation, my papa picked us up but the streets were still flooded so we had to ride on a banca to cross the street and flag a jeepney a few blocks away from the hospital.30 years after.On the day my daughter (my only child) was born, I waited in front of the delivery room.
It is about an absentee father Edward Bloom who is a good provider but prefers to work away from home and a son Will Bloom who is facing the reality that his father is dying but he does not know him yet and even hates him for missed his growing up years.
و قسمتی که باعث شد شک من به یقین تبدیل شود، آنجایی بود که پسر در لحظهٔ مرگ پدرش، شروع کرد پایانی برای داستان پدر ساخت، که من را به یاد داستان های استوره ای انداخت که در برخی از آنها پسر با پدر مشکل دارد، ولی با هم آشتی میکنند و بعد پسر ادامه دهندهٔ راه پدر میشودپس نویسنده با هنرمایی در آخر این رمان توانست به راحتی یک داستان افسانه ای را به صورتِ استوره ای به پایان برساندالبته پس از نوشتنِ ریویو متوجه شدم که بر رویِ جلد و کاور کتابی که در گودریدز ثبت شده است، اشاره ای نیز به موضوع استوره ای بودنِ این داستان شده استدر جایی مطلبی خواندم در مورد نقد یک ایرانی بیسواد و از آن دسته از نادان هایی که همه چیز را به دین مرتبط میدانند...
BookTube-A-Thon Challenege 2016 #3 Read a book you discovered through BookTube. (I found this over with Ashley from saidthestory).BookTube-A-Thon Challenege 2016 #6 Read and watch a book-to-movie adaptation.
I'm not a big fan of magical realism, but if it's done well, by an author who can make you believe in anything, just by the quality of his writing, it can be something special. "Big Fish" did that for me. I was under Daniel Wallace's spell from the first word. I guess a lot of people feel that way, because it has been turned into a film and a Broadway production.
The film was greatly padded out, using the material from the book as a backbone (the book reads more like a collection of concept notes for the film than a full novel).
The film also made several changes in Edward Bloom's character (making him more likeable), for example, in the novel, it is confirmed that Bloom did have an affair, where the film had the woman deny that there was any infidelity (despite her attempts to seduce him).
Please, read this book. Once in a while, like The Five People You Meet in Heaven, comes a book that is original, full of wonder, Chronicle of Narneish, so full of meaning and beauty that all must buy it, read it, and pass it on. This is perfection. Oh, also see the Tim Burton version of this. As a matter of fact, just see all of Burton's movies. How else to do such a story? Great!
godine) kojeg knjiga nije popratila.
Knjiga je simpica, čarobna, drugačija, duhovita..
na onaj dan kad je Isus sa svetim Petrom čuvao rajska vrata.
Uglavnom, Isus mu je jednog dana pomagao, kad naiđe neki čovjek.
– Što si učinio da uđeš u kraljevstvo nebesko?, upita ga Isus – A čovjek reče: Pa, zapravo ništa posebno.
- Tvoj sin?, upita Isus, koji se sad zainteresirao.- Da, bio je doista poseban sin., reče čovjek.
Postao je i vrlo slavan u svijetu i mnogi ga i dan danas vole.- Isus pogleda čovjeka, a onda ga čvrsto zagrli i kaže: Oče, oče!- A starac mu uzvrati zagrljaj i reče: Pinokio?“
The film adaptation diverged in some ways from the book, while still keeping the core concepts, concepts I enjoyed both watching and reading about.
This story is about a son coming to terms with the inevitable death of his sick father—as well as trying to come to terms with the 'mythic' life of the same man and trying to make sense of who exactly is his father.It's a testament to the book's writing that despite me ultimately disliking the father, I was still wholly interested and invested in the father-son relationship, that I could even understand the sort of strained, frustrated affection the son had for this flawed man who was so difficult to reach out to.
Either way, if nothing else, this book makes me want to watch the movie again, and that's not a bad thing at all.
Firstly it's a lot to live up to but, there's also the problem that no one knows where the fairy tale that is Edward Bloom's history ends and the reality begins.Edward Bloom always felt himself to be a big fish in a small pond and he was determined that one day he would swim away from his small town and see the wider world and he'd make a name for himself and no mistake about it.
This story presents itself as a charming fairy tale for the modern age but really it is an examination of the father-son bond as two people who are closely linked but worlds apart reconcile themselves with their imminent separation brought about by death.
3.5 stars. It's hard to read a book when you've been a huge fan of the movie for years, and that was the case with this book. Big Fish is one of my absolute favorite movies, so in my mind, it was just expressed and elaborated slightly better in the movie.  The book was still a good, quick read, and of course, I just adore the ending. <3
I have seen the movie adaptation of this book over a dozen times and it still remains one of my absolute favorites. I was a little reluctant to pick up the book because of my love for the film, but it's shortness and urge to revisit a wonderful story changed my mind. The message is the same in the book as it is in the movie; remembrance through stories. Though the book was different I still really enjoyed it!
Since I’m working on a story that has a dreamy, fabulist writing style, I wanted to read something similar, and Big Fish certainly fits that description with passages like this: They say he never forgot a name or a face or your favorite color, and that by his twelfth year he knew everybody in his home town by the sound their shoes made when they walked.
A reviewer, in reference to the Big Fish movie adaptation, said, “A well-told lie illuminates the truth in far better clarity than a simple recitation of the facts ever can.” Given this idea, I somewhat expected the fantasy scenes in this book to have real-world equivalents, like in Neal Shusterman’s Challenger Deep, but any parallels are most likely coincidental rather than intentional.
When being told a whopper your job as the listener is not to question the story.
Each chapter is an individual tale all coming together to paint the picture that was Edward Blooms extraordinary life.
As the story progressed it became pretty depressing and I liked Edward less and less as a character.
Edwards son narrates the novel telling the reader about the life his father lead, a life of mythic proportions.
In Big Fish we are told about the perception of Edward Bloom, not the reality.
I enjoyed the stories and I know I will be thinking of this book often.
And Daniel Wallace connects the magical bits to the more obviously and fully real-life bits, while leaving little overlaps so we can make our own decision how they connect.
I loved some of the little vignettes more than others, and the last one was probably my favourite.
Some of the stories did feel disjointed and, to be honest, cliched or over-hyperbolised in a not so pleasant way, but still those flaws made me think about the flaws of our memory-making processes and how they added some unexpected sentimentality to the story when I think about who's telling the story, and now I realise I think about the storyteller point-of-view a lot as I read the book...
Overall, though, I think the film has the tone and the spirit of the story, but it's presented in more of a linear fashion.
Plus, the coda from the film gives the viewer a little peek at the truth behind the myth of Edward Bloom, whereas the book leaves us to make up your mind with multiple versions of the ending.
Overall, I can't recommend the movie enough and I recommend the book to those that are very interested in magical realism or seeing how myths and legends look in a modern setting.
The brief novel is told through the eyes of son William as he watches—four separate times—his father Edward dying.
And yet, as much as his father has always made him laugh, William feels that all the jokes and stories have kept him at arm’s length, and that he’s never really gotten to know his father.
It’s been years since I’ve seen the film, but Burton did a lovely adaptation.
Commenting on adaptation on his blog, Wallace noted that Big Fish was now a book, a movie, and a musical.
I do not know him.My father is a fish.
This book. Was wonderful. I started it yesterday, and probably would have finished it way earlier today if I hadn't had work. It's a very quick read, and left me feeling refreshed and ready for more, sad to see it end but feeling fulfilled.
This is the story of Edward Bloom, who is dying, narrated by his son, who in turn takes the tale to mythic proportions (as suggested by the subtitle).This is quite a short read seeped in wonder, legend and magic realism.
خاص بود؟! آره. اولش رو هم خیلی خوب شروع کرد و تا چندین و چند صفحه خیلی خوب پیشرفت و هی آدم میخواد بیشتر بدونه ولی وسطاش تا نزدیک ِ انتهاش یه حالت ِ خنثی ِ بدی داشت. یعنی اون جذبه ی اول ِ کتاب به کل ناپدید شده بود. توی اون صفحات آسون نمیشد ادامش داد ولی در کل خوب بود.
Simpaticna, njezno duhovita bajka :)
While I was reading this book, I kept wondering if I liked it. It seems the more I read, the better it was, especiallyat the end, which made me smile. It wasn't until the endof the book, that it made sense in it's entirity. I loved the ending in this book. All the mythology and exaggeration,made me question the value of the story, at first I onlyseemed to attend to the father/son conversations that I feltwere real and poignant. Little by little, I started to appreciate Wallace's use of mythology to tell his story, andunderstood his talent as an author.
I think the guy who plays the main character in this movie is attractive, but I forgot his name. If that's not a good reason to read the book, then I don't know what is.
A novel with a BIG heart; tailor-made for Tim Burton and he totally made a movie out of it. Read it.
Οκ, δεν με ταξίδεψε η γραφή δυστυχώς... Η ταινία του Μπάρτον μακράν καλύτερη κατά την άποψη μου... όσοι την έχετε δει, νομίζω ότι το βιβλίο δεν θα σας προσφέρει τίποτα επιπλέον..
True story.
My grandfather was an incurable joker.
Also an incurable smoker.
He always joked to his doctors that "It's not the cough that carries you off, it's the coffin they carry you off in!" The day after he died in the early 1960s the whole family was sitting in the living room remembering him when the telephone rang.
My uncle answered and came back laughing but with the tears streaming down his face."What?
What is it?""They asked for Joe. I...I said he wasn't available.
They said to tell him his subscription to Life is up!"I have to read this book.
Oddly enough, this book is the third incarnation of Big Fish I've consumed. To be honest, though, I don't think I would have loved it so much if it weren't for the movie and the musical bolstering it. All three pieces together create an odd but beautiful combination of story, visuals, and sound and IT IS INCREDIBLE. Absolutely love the way this story takes hold of the imagination.
Masalımsı bir kitap. Ki bu tarz kitaplar benim pek yardım değil. Ama bu kitap gerçekten beni çok derinden etkiledi
"Bir adamın anlattığı hikâyelerin hatırlanması o adamı ölümsüz kılar, bunu biliyor muydun bakalım?"
