https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/460717.The_Dogs_of_War
By the time I separated from the Army in 2000 I had come to realize a few crucial things about the military and combat operations.1.
Mr. Forsyth does an excellent job of showing what goes into organizing a professional and effective military force and combat operation.It's a tedious and time consuming job.
He shows that a one hour combat operation involving a few dozen soldiers entails several thousand hours of planning and training.
The details that many have found to be tedious are part of war.
However one thing that hasn't changed is the side that has the best chance of winning is the side that is the best equipped, organized and led.
It's practically a text book for staging a revolution, just as The Day of the Jackal was for assassinations.
Great minds think alike.)I really liked the 1980 movie starring Christopher Walken & Tom Berenger, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Dogs...but it isn't nearly as good as the novel because there were a few critical changes that sucked a lot of the juice out of it.
If you're familiar with both (spoilers abound for both), I'd recommend reading the Wikipedia entries.
Here's the one for the bookhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Dogs...Compare the story to the one above for the movie.
In a way, this book is similar to his deservedly acclaimed "Day of the Jackal" in that in concerns the plot and execution of a serious crime for political gain.
While "Jackal" is about the assassination of French President Charles De Gaulle, "Dogs of War" concerns the attempted coup d'etat of a small, fictional African country in order for a British mining company to take advantage of the country's seemingly endless supply of platinum.
First of all, Forsyth seems to have come across the problem that makes Tom Clancy's books so insufferable: endless, monotonous details about a the planning and execution of an operation.
There was a film made - who knew - and starring, wait for it, Christopher Walken and we all love him since Mousehunt and that fab Fatboy Slim 'Weapon of Choice' video.Description: In a remote corner of Zangara, a small republic in Africa, lies Crystal Mountain.
At certain times of the day the mountain emits a strange glow.
Only Sir James Manson knows why.
The mountain contains ten billion dollars worth of the world's most valuable mineral, platinum.
Now the only question is, how to get hold of it.
Sir James knows how.
Invade the country with a band of savage, cold-blooded mercenaries.
As many reviews have pointed out, the level of detail that goes into planning Manson's grand scheme is insanely meticulous and realistic (which means like real life, it's monotonous and tedious at times).Some of the pros of this book are:*Any of the scenes set in Africa.*The mercenaries themselves.*The characters of Shannon and Endean and Roux.*The attack on Zangaro (when it finally, at long last, happens)*The ending.
This may be the way that a real operation like this might be planned, but it reads boring.
In keeping with my usual practice for books I've only read in a Reader's Digest condensed version, I'm not presuming to review or rate this one.
Zangara, the fictional African nation that serves as the setting here, was directly modeled on the real-life country of Equatorial Guinea, which Forsyth visited just before writing the book, and psychotic President Kimba is a fictionalized version of E.G.'s first president, Macias Nguema, whose dictatorial reign of terror (1969-79) was ended by his overthrow and execution.
The country is still a hotbed of tyranny, paranoia and corruption --and The Dogs of War is still a banned book there.
Me costó terminar, mucho, mucho."Los perros de ..." cuenta la historia de Cat Shannon, un mercenario, contratado por un multimillonario inglés para tomar el control de un país africano en el que se encuentra la "montaña de cristal", una reserva de platino invaluable.
El 70% del libro cuenta los preparativos de la misión que Shannon lidera, lo que lo hace extremadamente árido.
Puede ser mi flojera o mi dislexia, pero no me agrada nada.El final es inesperado, obviamente, decente, pero nada espectacular.
Evíte leerla si puede.
mercenarios
The story is basically about a modern day Francis Drake (or Robert Clive) called James Manson, who discovers that in order to extract copper worth 10 billion dollars from a distant african state, he'll have to overthrow the current President and replace him with a puppet of his choosing.
So he hires a group of mercenaries to execute this plan.Now, this is where the story was supposed to get exciting and thrilling, but well, it was anything but exciting.
Hundreds of pages with long lugubrious descriptions of how Swiss banks work, how shell companies are used to back dubious activities and how mercenaries get their weapons and ammunitions.
While many of the reviews point to an abundance of information as a downfall I find this to be the major strength of the novel. You are taken on a realistic journey by Forsythe through the shadowy thoroughly researched underworld ending in an unexpected but enjoyable climax.If you enjoyed the details of fake passwords and the black market arms trade in "Day of the Jackal" then this book will likely be even more enjoyable.
Of all Forsyth's novels, his first two are for me by far the best, and also the most authentic. Here he combines his skills as a master story-teller with an intimate knowledge of the esoteric and closed world of mercenaries, and of Africa. It is clear that his research for this novel went far beyond a desk study. Readers of his non-fiction work Biafra Story will know that he is no stranger to Africa. All in all, a ripping yarn.
There's very little action in terms of the "war" in the title, but this is nevertheless an entertaining read. It's a clever satire on world politics, and is unfortunately still relevant.
Cry 'Havoc' and let slip the Dogs of War!
The idea is interesting, to have mercenaries to conduct a coup in a small (fictitious) country in West Africa.
However, Forsyth spent too much time explaining the process in preparing the action.
Well, might be useful if one wants to do the same thing in the 70s though.
I felt kinda bored reading the middle part of this book.
Couldn't care less about all of the business arrangements and Bond-esque love affair.
Interesting twist too.
In conclusion, I definitely prefer this book than its two predecessors, The Day of the Jackal and the Odessa File.
Interesting if dated book. I was even then fascinated by the subject matter..mercenary soldiers. I know that many will disagree, but I've never held the opinion that they are universally "evil". This is an interesting story, it hasn't stayed with me as much as say, The Day of the Jackal, but Forsyth is still one of the best ever writers of suspense, thriller, and techno thriller.
Read this book after watching the movie again and thought it was a well-written story about mercenaries fighting in Africa.
Saw the movie recently and it's still worth seeing as well as reading the book.
I enjoy reading books that were made into movies and see how closely the film follows the book.In Africa a dictator decides not to play ball with powerful mining companies under the control of European investors.
Written during a time when snappy dialogue was equally important as action.
Thrillers of today could read this book for good research on how to write a book of this genre.
Well-written and boring.Pat Shannon, a mercenary between jobs, contracts to employ of bunch of his mercenary friends to displace the insane dictator of a small African country with valuable mineral deposits.
To do so, he must not only recruit the men and acquire the weapons, ammunition, and transportation, but he must also smuggle them all in and out of countries of origin and transit and arrive in total surprise.
Along the way, he must cope with those from his past who really don't love him, as well as treacherous arms dealers.This book was probably a handy how-to-do-it smuggler's guide when it was originally published.
Une lecture divertissante.
✭✭✭
The film is about a group of mainly American mercenaries hired to remove an African dictator from power in a fictional country, and a great deal of time is devoted to the action scenes.
The reason why I have highlighted these two differences is that, in my opinion, these aspects of the story make this book such a great read.Forsyth's incredible attention to detail, describing the backgrounds of the characters and the motivations for their actions; and the detailed planning involved in a military operation, how the mercenaries obtain all the different equipment they need from different sources and the lengths everyone has to go to in order to cover their tracks; all helps give the story a more "realistic" feel.
While the overall slice of military action is a small one, the outcome of this operation is one that is meant to have huge economic advantages.
While the three act structure of the story itself appeared a tad too idealistic and cliché, the book shines through with the amount of detail that is shed on the planning of the military operation.
It is like watching a solid and cost effective structure take place step by step and brick by brick.A bit of reading about history will tell you that the ones who usually wins the wars are the ones who have a better control over their logistical systems.
Frederick Forsyth achieves here for mercenaries and international intrigue what he previously did for political assassination.
The author expertly builds tension as he takes a simple premise of coup d'état in a small African nation and completely lays out the underlying motivations of the many participants and traces every thread of necessary effort required to achieve such an enterprise from the hiring of mercenaries to the purchase of arms and materiel.
All of this by-the-numbers should be boring, but in the skillful descriptions of Frederick Forsyth they become almost beautiful studies for their own sake, never flagging in their ability to fascinate.
Es como leer una página de wikipedia de un país africano.
Авторът има талант, но определено не съм подготвена за чиста доза военен трилър. Иначе е подробен, добре изграден и... подробен xD.
It explains beautifully how these profiteers manipulate such nations in the name of democracy, hoaxing elections for them & putting their chosen corrupt leaders on them.This book is made even more intriguing by the story of a former British SAS soldier & a mercenary, Simon Mann.
Several of the articles in papers about Mann's trial quote striking resemblances in the story of his failed coup attempt in an African state & this book.
Here is one of some good articles writing about the resemblances between Mann's story & this book:http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/world...
It's a fascinating story that deals with resource exploitation and private militaries and mercenaries and their effect.
I picked up The Dogs of War because I'd heard the premise, that of a gang of mercenaries attempting to topple an African dictatorship in order to establish a puppet government that will sell platinum to a British mining magnate at absurdly low prices, and I thought it sounded fun as hell.I've been better about reading this year than I was when I first tried that Jackal, and to good effect, because the first hundred pages of Dogs really drags, for me.
I've picked up Day of the Jackal again and I can't wait to read it too.
F. is an intricate cultural novel which focuses on the different concepts that underlie politics across the world in a central African location.
The complex metaphorical analysis and connections present in the book allow the reader to better discern the sundry of indelible characters that try to attain the resource-gluttonous needs of every complex society around the world.
It is more of a dithering social analysis that percolates through the general needs of our modern world, which depend on such symbols as platinum rich mountains.
A day will come when you think yourself safe and happy, and suddenly your joy will turn to ashes in your mouth, and you'll know the debt is paid.” - George R.R. Martin as Tyrion Lannister.
Revenge is such.
You turn that sourness and pain into a slow burning fuel.
To see your revenge exacted is the ultimate goal of a seething heart.
Too much emotion invested in it to let it go waste with foolhardy behavior.
You plan, check, execute, check again because when the appointed hour comes, the enemy has to go down, hard.
Let Forsyth talk to you about it.
In order to accomplish this, he hires a mercenary, Carlo Shannon, an experienced fighter with African experience, who, in turn, hires his own team, selected from men with whom he has worked before.There is very little action in this book; hence I would not classify it as a true thriller.
Most of the story revolves around the intricate preparations that had to be made in order for Shannon to execute his plan, and although the details Forsyth describes are probably accurate, they are also boring and often caused me to lose interest.
It is fast paced and keeps the reader interested throughout the length of the narrative.
As a reader I sometimes have felt that some of the Forsyth's books get lost in the details, for example "The Negotiator" where I sometimes felt the pace of the narrative gets sluggish by unnecessarily delving into too much detail.
In that way it is more like his first book...
It has the right balance of a quick paced plot, interesting twists and turns, an accurate and very detailed description of events that might serve as a fitting tutorial for any budding mercenary
