https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/661630.The_Royal_Road_to_Fotheringhay
A sequel, The Captive Queen of Scots, presumably covers the twenty or so years between the death of her third husband and Mary's own death, and will be read in due course.
Once I'm done with gnashing my teeth over how much I wanted to slap Mary through most of this novel.I had, of course, a similar experience reading Plaidy's two novels concerning Lucrezia Borgia last year.
It's rough.Royal Road to Fotheringay was a lot more unpleasant a read than the Borgia books, though, because so many of the characters it has to portray are, incredibly, even more unpleasant.
It honestly reads a lot more like actual history than historical fiction, which was fine with me.
While some of this has a basis in history (she certainly was spoiled for most of her childhood in France) I think her personality was a lot more active than what was portrayed in the book.
Her portrayal of the relationship between Mary and Bothwell was very interesting, as I've noticed most fictional accounts tend to make Bothwell into a romantic hero.
You can tell the author really knew what she was talking about and did her research and it's amazing that she wrote this book back before opinions of Mary began to change and be more positive.
To use a word used in the book and which comes to mind often when thinking of Mary's decisions in her life, "Folly".
That son becomes James VI of Scotland, and James I of England whom I spoke of in earlier posts in regards to Arbella aka Arabella and her own misfortune for being born a Stuart.I have previously read Jane Dunn's Elizabeth and Mary: Cousins, Rivals, Queens which is non-fiction.
Could never get a sense of time with this book."I wonder if Mary was simply more in tune to her beauty and cared more for the finer things in life and not brought up to think politically.
They later stage her abduction and rape because they think it will create acceptance for them to be married.Given that as in almost all historical fiction, this is the author's supposition of the motivation behind known events, it is the first time in many books I couldn't find any empathy, sympathy, or logic for Plaidy's version of events.
I can see a case for the version of events that has them staging her abduction and so on, but only if the relationship began willingly, not with his humiliation and injury of a very proud, in-control queen.It's an even more unfortunate choice of events because all of the story leading up to it is so realistically and well imagined and written.
For all my reading about female rulers, I knew very little about Mary, Queen of Scots.
Plaidy certainly takes some liberties in telling this tale but there is SO much going on here that this was a fun read.
This book covers all of Mary’s life but it spends a lot more time on her younger years and then sort of gets to a frantic pace by the end right to her death.
But no – Elizabeth seems to spend most of her time laughing at what an idiot Mary keeps being.
Hot historical mess but the sort that is great fun to read.
Jean Plaidy reveals her steadfast grasp of historical storytelling in this engaging account of the first half of the life of Mary, Queen of Scots.
It shows not all history book are a bore.Plaidy is particularly good at creating larger than life characters, from Mary's ultra-sleazy uncle, a Cardinal, to the swaggering Borderer, Bothwell.
She has a way of writing that feels courtly and understated - it may be a product of the era in which she was working - so that even the most outrageous scandal takes place almost matter-of-factly.It was overall a great book.

I'm glad I knew going into this that this was the first part of the series, or else I would have been confused as to why so much focus was placed on Mary's early years in the first half while the reader gets a condensed version of her adult life in the second half.
I'm hoping that her time in captivity is explained in more detail in the next book.
You know, there just isn't a way to make Mary's story palatable.
I'm looking forward to reading the next book of the Stuart saga.
I think Mary Queen of Scots had a fascinating life and I liked Victoria Holt's (another pen name of Jean Plaidy) historical novel about Marie Antoinette (The Queen's Confession), but I was disappointed in The Royal Road to Fotheringhay. Mary's character didn't come alive, the suppporting characters were too one-dimesional and the narrator's tone annoyed me. However, I did learn some interesting facts about Mary's life. I have a couple of the Tudor novels by Jean Plaidy, but I don't think I'll bother reading them.
Fans of Philippa Gregory and Allison Weir should be sure not to miss Jean Plaidy. She’s the author of an entire series about the Queens of England, and you might enjoy their compelling stories and historical details. You may want to start with Royal Road to Fotheringhay , which tells the dramatic story of Mary, Queen of Scots.
First of Jean Plaidy's two books about Mary, Queen of Scots. Started off good (when she's in France), but got pretty slow in the middle once she came back to Scotland. It picked up towards the end, so I'm hoping the next book is better.
I tried. I really did try to continue and enjoy this book but, I could only get 30% through. It just did not hold my attention. Too much dithering around by all characters. I love Mary Stuart and her as a actual historical figure intrigues me so, but this fiction was a sad disapointment.
Was there ever a queen so different from Elizabeth I? Mary's naivete is almost embarrassing, and yet you can't help cheering her on... even when you know how gruesomely it's going to end...
After reading Philippa Gregory's attempt at capturing the Boleyn charm, I definitely found it lacking in comparison to Plaidy's - her interpretation of Anne was weak and somewhat two-dimensional, even outdated.
It's a short, eventful read with a large cast of sinister characters who'll do anything in their power to manipulate the queen for their own ends.As I know next to nothing about Mary's story, I used this as a kind of educational novel to help teach me about her (and, I confess, that's the reason I've picked up so many Plaidy novels over the years).
It works a treat in this respect, providing historical details and a real air of authenticity along with plenty of entertainment along the way.Plaidy is particularly good at creating larger than life characters, from Mary's ultra-sleazy uncle, a Cardinal, to the swaggering Borderer, Bothwell.
Mary Stuart, the Queen of Scotland, has had many difficulties throughout her royal life.
After being sent to France and wedded to the French prince Mary's life seems to be wonderful.
Unfortunately after her young husband dies Mary realizes that she cannot trust those she did before.
No man, other than her young dead king, can Mary trust.
Yet, she constantly puts her trust in the wrong men and falls in love too quickly.
It was another wonderful historical novel by Jean Plaidy.
I truly love how Plaidy makes the reader feel conflicted about almost every character including Mary Stuart.
Although many of Plaidy's books can be on the dry side, I really liked this one.
It is pretty straightforward and Plaidy doesn't seem to try and portray Mary too sympathetically.
A pawn in various power struggles from the time she is an infant, Mary makes decisions based on emotion without stopping to consider the consequences.
But seeing as how she was really given very little guidance on how to rule (people just told her what to do) maybe it shouldn't come as a surprise.
The first in a two-volume series, Royal Road to Fotheringay covers Mary's years at the French court and her two subsequent marriages after she returns to Scotland.
So I am obsessed with the TV show Reign.
I know, I know - it's not historically accurate with either plot, costume or characters.
It was full of good historical fact and nicely written.
Although when dealing with accuracy, it tends to be a little dry.
Mary, Queen of Scots, life was anything but dry.
I enjoyed reading about the first half of her life (to me the good half).
The second half is spent in a castle locked away to ensure Elizabeth's reign.
Which, if you think about it, is pretty funny considering the throne reverted to Mary's son when Elizabeth died.
The best book I've ever read about Mary Queen of Scots was Margaret George's historical fiction. This one was written way before...and has plenty of Plaidy's florid style which alternates between charm and tedium. I enjoy Plaidy enough to try to read all of her re-released historical royalty series, but perhaps I'm a bit of a masochist.
I'm not a fan of the slave like love Queen Mary felt for Bothwell in this version. I do believe she loved him enough to risk crown and country, but, I'm also a firm believer that not all those casket letters were genuine.All in all, not the most exciting telling of the tragic Queen of Scots, but fairly good.
Este libro fue el largo conducto hacia el inevitablemente triste final. Creo que fue interesante ver a Mary desde el punto de vista de la protagonista y no la villana como cuando leemos o vemos algo acerca de Elizabeth donde ella solo está protegiendo su trono.
Plaidy's books always look so daunting for their length but they usually end up being quick reads as was the case for the Royal Road to Fotheringay. All of her characters though do end up reading very much the same and it is only the circumstances of history which set them apart.
One of the reasons that I think I liked this book so much is because I'm related to Mary, Queen of Scots...completely aside from that, I think it's a great book and am definitely planning on reading Plaidy's other books.
Very disappointing! I love Jean Plaidy (aka Victoria Holt) but this was a very slow and boring read.
Love a good historical novel!
Well written. One of Plaidy's better books. I wish, though, that there was more about Mary's time in England.
Soooo much detail about Catherine De Medici...makes me want to read about her now. The choices she made or were made by her uncles that changed her life soo much. It makes you think "what if".
Good intro to Mary Queen of Scots, brings her story to life, but drags slightly due to the existance of a second volume.
Not to be muddled with Mary Tudor, this book is about the life of a queen who took her title when she was just six days old.Mary was the daughter of James V of Scotland and his wife Marie de Guise of France.
Stuck between feuding lords, squabbling family and strong Protestant believers, led by John Knox, Mary struggled to rule a people who didn’t know her and had little faith in her actions.This book gives the reader enthralling insight into Mary's eventful life, where friend and foe were quick to change.
I knew very little about Mary Queen of Scots before I read this book, but I now feel I know her very well.
Great book on Mary, Queen of Scots.
She has a line in the book that says "The Queen of England was governed by ambition; the Queen of Scots by her emotions...." that sums it up exactly.
My grandmother was born and raised in Scotland and spoke to me quite a bit about Queen Mary but always in a positive way.
As I have continued to read about her both in historical fiction and non-fiction, I don't truly blame her for what she became as she was not raised to be a Queen but it frustrates me none-the-less.
I loved the book and would highly recommend.
