https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17174.A_Yellow_Raft_in_Blue_Water
There's something peaceful about envisioning a yellow raft in blue water...
Or the vision of that raft floating in all kinds of weather be it torrential winds, waves or the gentle lapping on a windless day.
It's solid but prone to taking a beating.
This is the story of Rayona, Christine and Ida. Three generations of Indian women whose lives are filled with hardship and abandonment.
How events that have happened to each of them, impact and define the other.A wonderfully written story of love, as abstract as that can be at times, and the power it has to hold these broken women together.
Starts with young fifteen year old Rayona, trying to figure out who she is and where she belongs, taking care of her mother Christine.
Ida, her story pulls everything together, the reader can then put all the pieces together, cause and effect.
It is very well told and we get to know the key characters very well.
My only sticking point was that Ida's story was too long delayed, her story was the one that makes the reader understand the rest and I think a little understanding beforehand would have improved my enjoyment of the story.
Their relationships are complex, as is often the case with mothers and daughters.We begin this story with the youngest, 15-year old Rayona's point of view.
Having lived through a childhood with a mother that refused to be called "Mom" or some such equivalent endearment and without any knowledge of her father's identity, Christine feels unwanted and unloved.
She continues to party often and carelessly.The story of Christine's mother, "Aunt Ida" as she demanded to be called, finally reveals to the reader a wealth of insight regarding the motivation behind actions that impact a family throughout the generations.
First we hear 15 year old Rayona 's story, who feels everyone has deserted her and now even the one ever-present person in her life, her Mother has abandoned her.
Next we hear the version by her mother Christine, who while battling her own demons , basically raises Rayona ,her mixed race daughter, as a single mom alone through difficult times.
Moral of the story: Never judge a book by it's cover , or someone's life by merely what you can see.I've heard this is classic assigned reading , but I don't think this should be considered a YA book.
But, even in Rayona’s account there is the hint of trouble between Christine and her mother, Ida, and when we reach book two and see the events through Christine’s eyes we come to understand behavior that seemed so puzzling before.
And, finally, we are allowed to hear the background story that is Ida’s life and see the roots of all this dysfunction that haunts the lives of each of these women.I was drawn into this book immediately and felt there was momentum that pulled me forward right through to the end.
There is a clear picture of life on the reservation, the poverty and problems with alcohol and the unique problems that come from living where the ties are so close and intermingled.
So, I made it about halfway through this book before throwing in the towel.
I'm used to loving a book, or at least being invested in the characters enough that it's hard to put it down.
That was not the case with this book.
I read it because I had nothing else to do.
The profanity was a big turn-off.Really, just one of those reasons would have been enough to give up on this book and find something better (my to-read shelf is big enough!), but I thought because it was both commercially and critically acclaimed I should give it more of a chance.
The strength for me is that it is about 3 generations of mothers and daughters and told in sections from each of their POV.
It starts with teenage Rayona's POV, moves to her mother, Christine, and ends with Aunt Ida, her grandmother.
As each section unfolds, we gain insight about character motivation, better understand each characters' flaws and choices and go deeper into the family's history and secrets.
My quibble about the end is that I wanted more about Aunt Ida and what got her from "the Last Day, which I gave to Christine" to become the person she is in the present story
Narrated first by the granddaughter, then the mother and the conclusion by the grandmother, this book depicts the struggles of the three generations of women in this contemporary Native American story.
I found myself flipping back in the book to Rayona's narration while reading Christine's.
IHS had employees from various locations and tribes and I learned so much about their cultures - the tribal pow wows, their love of football, growing up on a reservation, (because it was a health agency) their primary health risks and issues, how highly they valued education, the beautiful artwork & pottery, etc.
I had to smile reading the last name Begay in this book as it is a HUGELY prevalent last name in Arizona for Native Americans.
Now, being that I'd like to think that their oral review had little to no effect on my opinion, I will continue with my blog.It's no surprise that the book is the interest of a high school class: the plot follows three generations of Native American women, going backwards in time, yet still being progressive with new information.
Instead of giving vague details and leaving plot to later be found by the order of happening, and taking the chance of losing the majority of the readers within the first couple of chapters, Michael Dorris manages his time manipulation by giving certain ideas through the youngest character, Rayona.
This book has characters that touch your heart and stay with you. I finished this several days ago and still and putting together new ideas and interpretations over the story.It really highlights the frailty of humanity as well as the deep, abiding damage that can come from secrets; even well intentioned secrets.the characters live in a world if missed communications which have disastrous long term consequences. the end of the story has a bright, shining candle of hope but it is not certain and can be easily snuffed out.Lessons for us all to learn here...
What I loved about this book was that it was broken up into three sections, each one of them about a different character, a girl, her mother, and grandmother. Every time the point of view changed you felt differently about the caracter. Plus the dialogue was great, we could all learn something from this author.
Cross generational story about three women living on an Indian reservation in Montana. Outstanding.
Although there were a few moments of genius writing, I was generally disappointed with the end result of Dorris’ novel.
Similarly, Christine, the second narrator, renounces religion and follows a life of personal happiness.
The beginning of the story stars Rayona, daughter of Christine and granddaughter of Aunt Ida. Her mixed heritage of being Native American and black makes her an outcast in any school she attends and an object of question wherever she goes.
Although the reader becomes quickly sentimental to Christine’s position on life, her constant need to be pulled in by others causes the book to feel like a stodgy dirge.
Previously, I found that I did not get into other male author's attempts, but really felt like Dorris captured female voices honestly especially around objectification and sexualization.
I put him in a category of empathic and clear thinking; I put him on a pedestal of the compassionate male author who "gets it" and I was grateful he existed.Later, after growing and obtaining a gender understanding more multi-dimensional than male and female, I learned some facts and some gossip around his death.
It might be a good idea for me to re-read it now so many years later.
The student brought the book to me and said, "I can't read the next section because Christine [the narrator of the middle section and Rayona's mother] is too much like my mother." I begged him to read 15 pages and then he could stop if he didn't like it.
I think some readers gave up too soon on this novel, or wanted to find a happy ending.
I always asked readers: Why do each of the three stories end where they do?
Christine will tell the reader, for example, that she is fat and unattractive, which is belied by other characters' reactions to her.
Well, I honestly didn’t expect to love this book., it turned out to be deeply moving.
It is the story of three generations of Native American (Hopi?) women.
The interesting thing is that the story is narrated in turns by each woman, beginning with the youngest, then moving to her mother, and, finally, her grandmother.
I was intensely captivated by the telling of the same stories in each woman’s perspective.
Boy, was I wrong about the grandmother!
This book skillfully demonstrates the folly of thinking you understand a story when you have only heard one side.
What a beautiful story.
Her story begins as she struggles with the contradictory natures of her relatives.
She's a woman who had high hopes for herself and dreamt of life beyond the reservation, even as she struggled with feelings of resentment and affection for the people she finds herself entwined with.
A person of fierceness and softness alike, cloaked in fearlessness and self-absorption, Christine carries us from place to place and lights a fire in the heart of this story.
This novel encompasses all that is loved and rejected in the name of family, all that is embraced and cast aside.
This book looked promising and I started out hoping for a really good read. However, there was a lot of the plot that just left you hanging and much of it that I felt was just "silly". Divided into three points of view, some of the characters' stories were much more compelling than others. Unfortunately, all in all I didn't feel like the book was worth the time it took to read.
I liked the beginning a lot. I wasn't too keen on the author's rather awkward literary device of switching narrators. Unsatisfying conclusion.
He presented the extreme poverty, isolation, and addiction on the reservation in an almost offhand way; these things were mentioned in passing, but in a way that made a big impression on me. I liked his writing but the book didn't totally hold together. There were some characters and some plot elements that didn't work for me.
They are related, a family, and their worlds intersect and tear apart, span out and braid back together, but it is not until the ending that the reader fully understands how the events which start the novel have come to pass.
Christine seems weak, diseased and tormented with feelings that her mother did not love her.
As shown at the end of the book when Ida takes the one man who never hurt her to the roof of her house, she wanted to braid her loved ones together and have them be stronger for it.
I've had this book for almost a year waiting to use it for whatever reading challenge I was working on, but I haven't been able to squeeze it in anywhere.
This was a sad little story, but I absolutely loved the descriptive strokes.
I enjoyed each of their sad little stories and they felt well told.
Each of the 3 POVs were told separately with no intertwining.
The young daughter's POV was first and her story felt incomplete because when the end of of the book came, I was disappointed that the author didn't come back to it.
At first the tale seems straighforward.
A teenage girl has an irresponsible mother who abandons her to a cold-hearted grandmother who doesn't want her either.
Life on a remote and poverty stricken Indian reservation in Montana has never been easy, especially for a teenager who is half African American.
Almost nothing in this absorbing tale is as it first appears.
Everyone is holding secrets.
Slowly, ever so slowly, events take on new meaning and the characters gain our compassion.
The reservation, though spread over miles of desert, is a true community where little goes unnoticed.
An outsider has little hope of understanding its fierce currents.
We are given the story of three generations of women told in reverse chronological order.
Difficult mother-daughter relationships characterize each story; the wounds of adolescence cripple them from being a good mother to their own daughter.
This novel focused on adolescent struggles, even when we were hearing from adult characters, they retained an adolescent voice, perception and focus, giving this book the feel of a young adult novel.
The characters never quite came to life for me, despite valiant effort on the part of the author.
There was always something slightly off, a narrator projecting his imagination into puppets, like a person impersonating a foreign accent.
I have read this twice, once in August 1989 in San Francisco, and again 22 years later in Sweden. Notes from the first read go as such: I have never read a book that had multiple first person POV. Love it! And later: Still love it, am learning things about writing from it. But I feel the ending is weak.And now? I still think it is a good book. I am not so sure the ending is weak but rather it does bring as much closure as one might want. That's how life is. Complete closure comes at death.
Interesting character studies, this is the story of three generations of Native American women. We learn about their culture, poverty, and isolation. Two of the three characters are difficult to like, but the reader comes to understand, if not agree with the choices they make. Three and a half stars
I got creeped out after the author killed himself and more truth came out about his life and his treatment of his foster children. Makes me wonder what really inspired his work as well as that of his wife, Louise Erdrich. At the time I enjoyed the book.http://www.corvalliscommunitypages.co...
This book was my first introduction to a plot and story woven around the Indian Reservations. Rayona, Ida and Christine are still with me after all these years. I mourn the loss of Michael Dorris,still.
Moves backwards from the 1980s to the 1940s covering the lives of three generations of Native American women in Montana: Rayona, Christine and Ida.
A 3.5 for me - review to come.
