https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126603.Studs_Lonigan
The basic question when reading a book of this stature is whether it’s worth the time, the effort and the attempt to absorb it.
He leaves behind a pregnant Catherine, and a father who deeply regrets having to lose a son when he is just thinking of leaving business for him, which in essence has been lost during the depression.Goes to show how life can be, when we are young and full of dreams, not knowing what will happen to fuck them up or to just shape them into some sweet list of memories when we come to our day of death.
James Farrell's Studs Lonigan is literature as instruction.
Our modern society, and the sustained political and social reaction to it, grows from the people and mores of Studs and his times.
Many Goodreads' reviewers expressed shock at the coarseness of the language, but political correctness and the acceptance of cultural and racial diversity are recent phenomena in American life.
Farrell's trilogy is a first-class example of early 20th century social realism in literature.
Another good work of this genre is Mike Gold’s Jews Without Money – which happens to be a title Studs sees at the rental library in Farrell’s third volume.
Farrell gets Four Stars from me.
Broke my face. I suppose, partially owing to the nominal 'Studs,' i thought this was a slice of life depression novel about getting by or not. it's definitely about not getting by, but the Depression is not strictly speaking what this is about -- an old-fashioned, even for 1935, sex-obsessed, violent, crushingly sad and toweringly beautiful work of art. Makes Sister Carrie look like an issue of JANE Magazine. Ignore at your eternal peril.
Meh. Coming from Chicago(-ish), the setting and historical context of this book were interesting.
But the main character, Studs, was kind of annoying.
I should probably stop reading them.Seriously, however, just as our beloved (or not so beloved) Studs begins to show that he has the cognitive and emotional capacity to be a well-developed, compassionate, responsible human being, instead of merely a sociopathic bully and wannabe date rapist, the book ends.
But maybe that's what the author was going for?I do have to give the editors props for using the word "Comprising" in the title.
"Comprising" is an awesome word.
To the American reader who, whether bored or amused,  is not self-conscious about seeing in print the kind of talk that would be bandied about in the Greek's poolroom, who doesn't have to swallow his naturalism as though he were taking a dose of castor oil, The  Young Manhood of Studs Lonigan is recommended as an absorbing novel, a book of significance, a great piece of American Realism.
And it leaves one shaken."William "Studs" Lonigan begins life as the favored eldest son of an Irish immigrant who has worked his way up in the trades and become a contract painter and the owner of the building in which the family resides.
If you're looking to be thoroughly depressed by the actions (and inactions) of an Irish-American loser, then this is the book for you. Otherwise, you should wait until I publish my own autobiography. Thank you.
Studs Lonigan just lost a star, because, in rereading it, I found it rather flat. I still think it is a worthy--great, even--piece of American literature, but there is too much telling, not enough indistinctness. In reading Farrell's introduction, in which he states that his original intention was to portray youths without any spiritual grounding or true moral compass, I realize that the book is ahead of its time, as fiction that portrays dangerous, soulless youth plaguing American society is a sub genre of its own. So that's awesome.
He grows up in the days of World War One, becomes a working man in the Roaring Twenties, and dies lost and broken and unemployed in the depths of the Great Depression.
Farrell does is to put you into the mind and body of this youth, this boy, this searching young man, this dying lonely victim, as every dream and hope he has ever had is systematically poisoned by the corruption and brutality of the world around him.
His prose is flat and monotonous, stating the same facts over and over in a way that expresses both his own rebellion and a deep feeling of anger at the waste of life that is Studs Lonigan.
Studs Lonigan (Young Lonigan, The Young Manhood of Studs Lonigan, Judgment Day) James T. Farrell (1932,1934,1935) #29May 16, 2009 This has to be the most offensive series of books that I have ever read. The racial insensitivity just kills me. Usually I get fed up with today’s double standards of “Racial Sensitivity”, and those who know me know that I am not a big fan of Political Correctness in general, but come on. I realize that this was the early thirties, but how a book like Slaughterhouse F
This is the story of Studs Lonigan – an Irish Catholic kid growing up in Chicago.
He struggles later on in the story to get healthier and clean himself up, then ends up knocking up his girlfriend (whom he apparently doesn’t even respect), catching pneumonia doing the only noble thing he does in the book – trying to find a job to support his wife and child to be – then dying.
So it comes down to this being a book being written in a forgettable style with a cast of common characters and a terrible plot line.Not real good to begin with, then throw in the awful racism of this book, and this one turns into a bomber.2.2N,J,A,T
Farrell uses salty language to make the dialogue realistic while not exactly condoning it.
The story of Studs Lonigan, a working class Irish Catholic in Chicago, highlights his life from graduating grade school (7th grade equivalent)in 1916 to his engagement in 1930.
Despite his bigotry, tough guy attitude and selfishness, we sort of root for Studs because we are privy to his thoughts which are often at odds with his actions.
James Farrell gives us an average working Joe but let's us believe that the guy is capable of deep and poetic thoughts.
His parents are proud that they sacrificed to put him & his sister through Catholic school for a good education.
Studs though hasn't learned much and like his friends they all feel they barely survived the Nuns.
Interesting background events are the signs of African-Americans moving into South Chicago, the Jews are blamed for financial ills and the Irish Catholics stick together at least in their hatred of other groups.Bootleg Gin, sex and the risk of venereal disease are also subjects, I imagine it was 'racy' for a 1930s novel.
Fun insight into that phenomena.Everyone thinks it's silly, but they watch addicted like a soap opera,or mmm American Idol.
whether he's beating up littler kids in the first book, unconscionably spreading venereal disease in the second, or failing to take responsibility for the mess of his life in the third, this is someone you have to be a little bit ashamed to identify with.
He wants to be a good (read: strong) man, but with little understanding of what that would mean, he ends up a slob.
He wants to be admired, but lacking discipline and empathy, he ends up a bully and a sap.
Here's a horrible human being who you have to understand, and kinda sorta have to like.
Any readers particularly squeamish about a lot of racism, ethnic bigotry, sexism, and homophobia are advised to stay away, because the words "nigger" and "kike" are not used sparingly or glibly.
I will admit that I was frustrated and sick of this book for a large percentage of it, but I know that the end effect would not have been the same if I didn't read it all.
It can be frustrating because it makes him hard to identify with.
I need to re-read the epilogue with greater attention next time (not ashamed to admit that I'll probably never read this book again though…).

You keep expecting some reversal of his ignorant, red-neck, narrow-minded point of view, but it never comes.Although the novel is 'rescued,' to some degree, in the last 500 pages (it is epic), I am still wondering why in the hell it was ever published by The Modern Library.
...(Of course, they also publish Ulysses, and count it as one of the great accomplishments of Western Lit).Somewhat incredibly, Tom Wolfe (A Man In Full; Bonfire of the Vanities; I Am Charlotte Simmons; Back to Blood) considers Studs Lonigan as one of the most influential novels of all time.Influential?
Who was Studs Lonigan?
He was just another tough-guy wannabe who lived in the early part of the twentieth century.
He was a lower middle-class Irish-American unable to escape the world he was born to.
He was just like millions of other faceless man who lived at the same time.
Farrell reveals a complex inner dialogue that Studs is never able to really understand or express.
The life of Studs is filled with racism, sexism, alcoholism - presented without judgement.
Studs is clearly not a sympathetic character, but he is an archetype for many men of the same era.
Greg and I began Young Lonigan a few weeks ago. I came across this author's name while preparing for a Naturialism course. Farrell seems to be one of the lesser known authors of the genre. Stusa is a funny character who is easy for a reader to become interested in. Farrell uses long tracts of listed descriptions. At times these sections can be tedious. We both noticed Farrell's roving point of view. The open lens of first perso stream of consciousness effectively shifts from one character to the next. Studs' voice often sounds like a precursor to Salinger's Holden Caulfield.
The trilogy not only covers major events in US history, but also a range of social topics; syphilis and TB, class struggles and racism, prohibition and alcoholism, homosexuality and sexual repression.In the first novel, Farrell takes us to Chicago’s south side at the end of WWII where we meet the 15-year-old Studs Lonigan as he grapples with young manhood.
Studs is the man you’d love to slap, but realize an embrace would be his deliverance.The hardworking father of Studs, Patrick Lonigan, aka Paddy, is an easily liked character.
Since I have such poor retention of what I read even a year later, I am going to start summarizing in addition to discussing.William “Studs” Lonigan is a lower-middle class second generation Irish-American from the south side of Chicago, finishing Catholic primary school around 1915.
After his first attempt at armed robbery fails miserably, he eventually returns home and starts working semi-regularly as a house painter for his father’s business, continuing his carousing every night.
Bill ("Studs" to everyone except his parents) grows up, drops out of school because he doesn't see the point, has a girlfriend named Lucy for like one afternoon and then spends the rest of his short life alternating between fantasizing about her perfection and wanting to screw ("jazz" or "make" as he puts it) practically every woman he meets, works for his dad painting houses until the economy goes bust, drinks too much, ruins his health, knocks up the only other girlfriend he's ever managed to get (the sort-of-unattractive but totally devoted Catherine) and feels forced into marrying her, and, eventually, dies of pneumonia.
It's almost as if Farrell was trying to write his own version of Winesburg, Ohio, substituting Irish-American characters and a city setting for Sherwood Anderson's Anglo-Saxon small-town folk, telling the stories of secondary characters as they revolve around Studs instead of fully continuing the story of Studs himself.The third book (Judgment Day) is the strongest of the trilogy, as Farrell tightens the focus to Studs (now in his twenties, still single, working for his father and living at home) and the Lonigan family as they all deal with the changing racial demographics of the South Side and the punishing hardships of the Depression.
As it is, it makes for a fascinating (though often patience-straining) read.Studs Lonigan is a challenging character for Farrell to have devoted nearly a thousand pages to writing about.
Part two of the series is where things really picked up for me (it begins with an Armistice Day celebration in the Loop which resembled the Hollywood Premier scene in Day of the Locust); it ends on New Year's Eve 1929, a blow-out that certainly does not look tame by today's standards.
However, to ignore the first two installments would be to miss too much backstory.Without a doubt, this may rank as one of the most depressing stories I have ever read (the main character never left Chicago, except to go to a funeral in Terre Haute Indiana, and he rarely left his neighborhood).
It's interesting because those same guys today would never read a book at all much less the classics.
The railing against Negroes (called various racist epithets throughout the book), Jews (the same), women in general (mysogny), lesbians and homosexuals was blood-curdling to read.
It would be my hope that Farrell was laying bare the rampant racism and sexism of his day with a higher social purpose but I can't be at all certain of that.
Sadly the racism and sexism that pervades it would not have been cause for reader interest or concern.
I would recommend reading this book, however, to gain profound insight into the legacy of blatant racism and sexism that lives on in a more polite, sanitized version today.
At face value, the bigotry and sexism of "Studs Lonigan" can be off putting, but a cursory check in about author James Farrell's history will re-iterate that he was just putting a mirror up to the world he grew up in rather than celebrating its outdated attitudes.
James Farrell, one drunken Irish author with vision, railed against Joe McCarthy, another drunken Irishman with a skewed and reactionary take on things.The work of a great novel is to be timeless: This trilogy was published in The Great Depression, but it was a salvation to me when I received it as a Christmas present this past year.
This book contains its share of racial slurs, anti-feminist sentiment and all types of offensive comments.
This book tells the story of a lifetime of excuses and missed opportunities as Studs makes his way through turn-of-the-century-and-beyond Chicago.
Farrell is the author of this book, but all you hear, feel, and understand is Studs.
The best part of this book is that the reader and the characters are not separated by a storyteller, hence the rough language and hurtful descriptions.
Keep in mind that this book is not pleasant, and is written from a now outdated perspective that is necessary to tell this story of unaccounted for misfortune.
Studs Lonigan was a punk, a bully, a tough guy.
Studs Lonigan was a thug.
He architected his life so as to become a thug.
His choice was to be a thug.
But as a portrait of the life of an early 20th Century son of Irish immigrants it deserves four stars.
The portrayal of the social and racial animosities, the dynamics of the streets on which Studs grew up, and the fate of so many young men in Chicago at that time is outstanding.
The Studs Lonigan trilogy is an excellent view into how to build the perfect beast--a thug.
We still have thugs on our streets, and for the same reasons: choice.
A heartbreaking and vivid story, both as a portrait of working-class life in an earlier America and as a classically tragic tale of the life and death of a person, in many ways promising, whose life is blighted and finally destroyed by a combination of his own flaws and the obstacles presented by his environment. I read this in high school and found it a haunting story.
Studs Lonigan is an extremely vivid character. Too bad he's not likeable in any way. The whole trilogy is so...banal. All those descriptions about families fighting over dinner and drinking and carousing and ruining your health and the good ol' days. Blecch. I could see the structure of paralleling Studs's life with the decline of the neighborhood, but whatever.
As a demonstration of the thinness of American literature, the inclusion of this in the Library of America is pretty much dispositive. Unless the guy in the office next door is teaching a class called "Unjustly Neglected Classics of American Naturalism," you're going to have a tough time finding anyone (except me, of course) who's read it. Not that this is a bad thing.
First read on the sly from my parents' bookshelf for the "naughty parts." Reread later for the brilliance of Farrell.
