https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10776.Green_Hills_of_Africa
The machismo is thick and pungent in Green Hills of Africa, Hemingway's autobiographical account of a hunting trip in Africa.
When not hunting, Hemingway talks books and writers with the few intellectuals he brought with him on the trip or came across along the way.
But of all his output, I could not suggest reading this first as it is not "Hemingway," as in "Have you read Hemingway?" This is more like a supplement for his fans who want to learn more about the man and/or the myth.
Where a man feels at home, outside of where he's born, is where he's meant to go."- Ernest HemingwayOnce, when I was 11 or 12, I begged my father to take me Mule deer hunting in Utah.
Growing up in the West, among a certain strata of boy, the October deer hunt was a sort of blood ritual.
We would take off from school for a couple days, go into the mountains with our fathers, shoot at things, and come home.
But I STILL, emotionally, deep down find myself thinking about Hemingway and Roosevelt.
Thinking about the big tests, the pursuit, the hunt, the blood.
The subject of the pursuit is the elusive kudu, an animal you must hunt alone, like writers must write alone...In Hemingway’s experimental work, the Green Hills of Africa, he produces possibly one of the earliest works of creative nonfiction, reveals how the search for good land parallels a writer’s search for good material, and most of all, reveals himself—warts and all.
Kandisky, in fact, skeptically interrogates Hemingway’s motivation in both pursuits: as hunter and as writer.By setting up this comparison between writing and hunting, material and land, early in the book, the narrative takes on the resonance of allegory, a literary device again crossing the boundaries of Hemingway’s ostensibly non-fictional project.
It is about a big-game hunting safari taken by Ernest Hemingway and his second wife Pauline Marie Pfeiffer in December 1933.
In my eyes, the competition between the men was extremely childish, the hunt itself gruesome and revolting.
The book is composed of four parts: "Pursuit and Conversation", "Pursuit Remembered", "Pursuit and Failure", and "Pursuit as Happiness".In the first and second parts, Hemingway expresses his personal views on a number of American and European authors.
This could have been so much better had Hemingway stopped pouting and observed with open eyes the landscape around him and its people.The audiobook is narrated by Josh Lucas.
Hemingway speaks to us in the first person.
Η βαθμολογία αποκλειστικά λόγω θεματολογίας. Οι προσωπικές στιγμές του συγγραφέα στην Αφρική κυνηγώντας άγρια ζώα. Οι περιγραφές αφορούν την "γοητεία του κυνηγιού" και τη θανάτωση των ζώων. Κάποιες στιγμές ενδιάμεσα, συζητήσεων σχετικά με την λογοτεχνία, τη ζωή κτλ. δεν ήταν αρκετές, για την τελική εντύπωση που μου άφησε το βιβλίο αυτό.
Hemingway makes me realize I'm a pussy.
He makes me realize every male human around me is a pussy.
After reading this book I tried to find Hemingway's masculinity and spirit in every men I know (personally and famous ones), and of course the results where dissapointing.
If you read breifly about Hemingway's life in Wikipedia, you realized his own life is a harsh novel itself.
And that his personality was shaped by all the events that occurred in this period of Human History.
Nowadays, we are taught that all these "events" were terrible for humanity, and, though they still exist, we must make our efforts to avoid them.
Perhaps I'm not the target audience but Hemingway made an East African hunting safari in 1935 seem unappealing.
Book Summary: Hemingway goes up a hill, looks for kudu, shoots something, his Africans skin it, and he returns to camp and drinks whiskey.
Repeat this about 35 times and you have the book.
Did Hemingway really take his white privilege/supremacy for granted, or did he omit this interesting and crucial element from the book on purpose?
This book is a tragedy, even more so because it comes from the man who had an absolute masterpiece in For Whom the Bell Tolls.
I have a good life but I must write because if I do not write a certain amount I do not enjoy the rest of my life. I came across The Green Hills of Africa selling for cheap at a used bookstore; and since I vaguely remembered that Hemingway’s famous quote about Huckleberry Finn came from this book (Hemingway thinks it’s the alpha and omega of American fiction), I snatched it up. Well, that quote is certainly in here. It is part of a conversation Hemingway has with an Austrian about literature, w
I came across The Green Hills of Africa selling for cheap at a used bookstore; and since I vaguely remembered that Hemingway’s famous quote about Huckleberry Finn came from this book (Hemingway thinks it’s the alpha and omega of American fiction), I snatched it up.
But this conversation takes place in the first few pages of this travel memoir; the rest of the book is dominated by his hunt for kudu.I suspect that many will find the story of Hemingway’s hunts distasteful.
Can’t you just look and appreciate?Well, this perspective—that hunting is distasteful and crass—is expressed by the Austrian in the opening conversation about literature, and serves to set up the essential metaphor of this memoir.

I have had a long-term fascination with Spain and had some deeper appreciation of bullfighting so Hemingway’s earlier experiment with non-fiction, Death in the Afternoon, which reflected so perfectly what Miguel de Unamuno had identified as the Spaniards' “tragic sense of life,” was a strong and intriguing read.
As he wrote in the foreword: “The writer has attempted to write an absolutely true book to see whether the shape of a country and the pattern of a month’s action can, if truly presented, compete with a work of imagination.” The Green Hills of Africa was, in addition to an account of a safari, part of an experimental period with non-fiction.
A memoir of Hemingway's hunting expedition to East Africa--an area I spent two weeks in recently--, Green Hills shows absolutely no awareness of the colonial history that structures the relations between the hunter and the numerous Africans who make his pleasure possible.
And it's clear that there's a good bit of irony in his portrait of himself as Great White Hunter--he screws up roughly as many shots as he makes and he describes his feelings of shame, but ultimately it all comes out as celebration.
It's a great set piece, oddly situated.I'm moving on to the short story collection The Snows of Kilimanjaro, written after the experiences described in this book had some time to marinate.
Hemingway draws you into the realm of the physical; he draws in precise detail the machinery of the rifles, the approach of the rhino, the canvas of Africa's deep and beauteous terrain.
There are passages in here of remarkable grit and beauty: "It was a hot place to camp, under trees that had been girdled to kill them so that the se-se fly would leave, and there was hard hunting in the hills, which were steep, brushy, and very broken, with a hard climb before you got up into them, and easy hunting on the wooded flats where you wandered as though through a deer park" (136).
Considering the fact that I, in the mid 70’s, was that squeamish highschool girl who dropped out of biology class the very day we were supposed to dissect a hamster, I’m not the least surprised that I didn’t like this book.Killing animals is simply not my thing.
Not so much.The story goes like this:Ernest goes to Africa in the early 1930’s, together with his second wife Pauline and some other aquaintances, to hunt.Ernest wants to kill a kudu, but doesn’t succeed.Ernest drinks whisky.Ernest meets an an Austrian.Ernest drinks beer.Ernest trashtalks some other authors.Ernest kills a rhino, but the horn is too small.
Mi aspettavo di "vedere" l'Africa, mi aspettavo delle dettagliate e suggestive descrizioni dei safari, degli animali, del rapporto uomo/natura, sì pure della caccia perché chiaramente sapevo che era l'oggetto del libro, ma non credevo che la lista degli animali uccisi fosse così cospicua e, dato che odio profondamente caccia e cacciatori, mi ha decisamente schifato tutta quella parte.
Così quello che importa, lì in quei giorni come nelle pagine del libro, non sono i paesaggi attraversati o gli stati d’animo dei vari protagonisti, o i loro pensieri.
A rather boring read, as it is all the time about hunting. However, Hemingway is such a talented writer, he makes up for the shortcomings just by his style.
Em 1933, Ernest Hemingway e a sua mulher Pauline, viajaram até ao continente africano e aventuraram-se num grandioso safari de dez semanas. O material dessa experiência serviu de inspiração para, entre outras obras, este As Verdes Colinas de África. Para muitos de nós: esta leitura será o mais próximo que conseguiremos estar de viver o ambiente de uma caçada A maioria da área coberta durante o safari, as montanhas, colinas íngremes, vales e savanas, pertence ao Lago Manyara, na Tanzânia, e às su
Para muitos de nós: esta leitura será o mais próximo que conseguiremos estar de viver o ambiente de uma caçada
Contudo, para leitores que tropecem ocasionalmente no tema, apesar dos bons momentos lidos, dificilmente encontrarão neste livro algo mais que não seja a excelente escrita de Ernest Hemingway, alguma tensão proveniente do jogo do gato e do rato e as maravilhosas fauna e flora africanas.Agora não havia estrada - um simples caminho de cabras -, mas estávamos a chegar à orla da planície.
Depois a planície ficou para trás e à nossa frente havia grandes árvores e entrámos na mais linda região que vi em África.
That said, this book is special because of its insight to Hemmingway's personality which includes killing everything that gets under his gunsights, drinking excessively, uncontrolled aggression and competition with his fellow hunters and anger and condescension toward his African guides.
This book describes the Africa that is so special and as an offset shows a man out of control emotionally.
He does, however, write with lovely compassion about Africa and does show that he understands his emotional overreactions, but the book gives a prediction of the life that he will encounter in the future.
I am certainly glad I read this book and enjoyed it more than much of his fiction, but found it sad and revealing.
If somebody would ask me to describe this book in one sentence, I would say "Ernest Hemingway and his friends are hunting wild animals in Africa." That's it.
I could publish this."And then he just send it to the printers, without much care about editing.I also hated how he called his wife "P.O.M" like it's some kind of secret or disgrace if he writes her real name down.Another bad thing about this book is his wooden dialogs and the abundant use of foreign words of the natives which he rarely translates, which further slows down the reading.Then there is constant cheering and bragging about how great shot he is.
Read this book because I was in the Chulu Hills in Kenya -- the very place about which Hemingway was writing -- and could barely finish.
to be fair, I have read the biography of Martha Gelhorn and remember the passages that describe her marriage to and subsequent divorce from Hemingway, who by that point was chasing imagined submarines off Cuba a "hunting" fantasy.
Despised Hemingway in this book, it gets the only star for no more than 3 insightful passages.
Because I fly off to Kenya and Tanzania tomorrow.Auf Wierdersehen daily routine. Bonjour adventure.
Se "leggere è viaggiare pur stando fermi" devo dire che con questo libro di Hemingway ho viaggiato.
Con Hemingway ho viaggiato nell'Africa dei kudù, nell'Africa nera, nell'Africa nera e rigogliosa delle sue colline verdi e della sua natura intatta, nell'Africa dei Masai, una tribù autoctona che vive allo stato brado basandosi su ciò che la madre terra offre loro.
Un viaggio che Hemingway ha compiuto in Africa nel 1933 con la moglie, un viaggio in cui non si parla solo di caccia, la grande passione di Hemingway, ma anche di letteratura e di tre scrittori che sono considerati il top: Mark Twain, Stephen Crane e Henry James.
Un viaggio per il quale ringrazio Hemingway per avermi accompagnato nell'Africa più vera e intimista.
Reading Hemingway is always a pleasure but there's something about reading a book on a topic you don't expect to care about (big game hunting, bullfighting) and finding you do care, very much.
It's fascinating and inspiring.
I loved the interplay between Hemingway and Pop, Hemingway and Karl, Hemingway and M'Cola, Hemingway and the dramatic one.
I loved being able to see exactly where I was, all the time.
I loved Hemingway on writing but most of all I loved Hemingway on Africa, Hemingway on America.
That's his secret, the reason we love him.
That was beautiful. Love Hemingway, love him.
"En aquel momento, mirando por el túnel de árboles que crecían por encima del barranco el cielo con nubes blancas movidas por el viento, amaba aquel país y era tan feliz como lo eres tras estar con una mujer a la que amas de verdad, cuando, vacío, sientes que vuelve a brotar y ahí está y nunca puedes tenerlo por entero, y sin embargo lo que hay ahora puedes tenerlo, y quieres más y más, tener y ser y vivir, poseerlo de nuevo para siempre, para ese siempre largo que acaba de repente; detener el tiempo, a veces detenerlo tanto que luego te paras a oír cómo se mueve, y le cuesta ponerse en marcha.
Odio profondamente la caccia quindi questo non è certo il libro per me. Mi aspettavo però più Africa, più natura, più rapporto uomo/natura selvaggia e meno scene, anche esplicite, di uccisione di animali. La mia repulsione è comunque stemperata dal fatto che il racconto è datato (1935) e che è scritto bene, ma avrei dato 1stella per il fatto della caccia. Verdi colline d'Africa Ernest HemingwayTraduzione: Attilio Bertolucci - Alberto RossiEditore: MondadoriPag: 279Voto: 3/5
Вот и выходит, что не ради действия читаешь эту книгу, не для того, чтобы узнать, что же там дальше ещё произойдёт, а чтобы получше окунуться в обволакивающую атмосферу жизни и охоты в Африке, что Хемингуэю так прекрасно удалось передать.
Описывает он в этот раз красоты Африканской природы, а также тонкости и особенности сафари, некоторые из которых будут не особо приятны женщинам и детям, что делает эту повесть больше мужской, очень уж жестоким и подробным в этом произведении бывает всё то, что связано с охотой.
However, most of this particular memoir has to do with hunting, as I knew ahead of time, and despite knowing what I would encounter, I still did not find it to be particularly engaging and relevant to me.I am not interested in hunting, especially when it comes to hunting big game, so I had a hard time stomaching some of the scenes describing the specifics of killing, or attempting to kill, various majestic animals.
I do realize this is a different time when hunting big game was not as controversial as it is today, since there probably weren't in place rules, or at least not as many, protecting endangered animals as there are today.
Of the two nonfiction Hemingway books I've read, "Green Hills of Africa" and "A Moveable Feast," this is the superior of the two.
Even the portions of this book about writers and writing, a subject "A Moveable Feast" is far more focused on, are fresher and livelier, probably because they were written contemporaneously rather than in hindsight, as was "A Moveable Feast."While much of "Green Hills of Africa" reinforces the popular image of Hemingway as a manly, swaggering hunter and drinker, it also helps to undercut that image.
In the course of the book, he gives the reader glimpses of his own self-doubt, particularly the shame he feels when pride overtakes him.
Apart from a few compelling descriptions of hunting and scenery, this book did not hold my attention.
I could never really figure out the time jumps; the whole thing came across as one big sweaty alcoholic trek through the African wilderness, interspersed here and there with Hemingway's rambling about the writing process.
I suppose there's something to be said for the book's clever layering--the hunt for big game translating into the hunt for good literature and Hemingway's own identity.
I would only recommend this book to true Hemingway fans looking to learn a little more about their hero and his passions in life.
I can't finish it because of it's too macabre for me.I don't like when Hemingway describe the happiness when the carachters kill the animals. I don't like hunting parties.So,I don't like this book.
