https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557214.The_Family_at_Red_Roofs
Another book I loved as a child. Children keep the family afloat, with mom in hospital and dad missing. Classic raw material for a Bollywood feel-good movie. Has it ever been made into one, I wonder?
The Jackson children (Molly, Peter, Michael and Shirley) are ecstatic.
They are moving from their stuffy/ dinky little house to a beautiful warm home on a green hillside called Red Roofs.
Big plans, bigger dreams, loyal help, an loyal new pet and the promise of a glittering future makes the four children work hard, play harder and generally look forward to life with a rosy outlook.
And just when the children are dealing with these unpleasant surprises, they receive some news that leaves them completely at sea and anchorless.
The Family at Red Roofs
one of my fav books..
Embarrassed to admit I actually cried while reading this book as an adult. EB's "family" stories are a bit more mature than her other books, and this one is probably the best.
I grew up reading a translated version of this book multiple times, and remembered loving it so much to the point of obsession.
Yes, some of the view points are dated and should be read with caution - but if we could put a pin on these and file them away as 'no longer relevant' to then continue with the story, I think it's still a lovely tale of family, friendship and coming of age.PS: reading this now also highlighted the stark difference of people's lives in 1945 compared to today, in terms of pace (multi-tasking hadn't been invented then).
I thought this was going to be a light-hearted family story but was quite moved by the predicament that the children find themselves in when just after their father goes abroad to work, their mother is taken seriously ill. As the story progresses each child shows their own strength of character in taking on extra responsibilities and adjusting to a change of fortune, and then in all working together to make the most of the situation they find themselves in. A heartwarming tale.
A pleasant journey back in time to one of my favourite books when I was nine. Enid Blyton certainly told a good story, but was it sexist?! Wow, the girls do this and the boys do that, everyone to their allotted functions, Daddy works and looks after Mummy, it was quite revealing.
Dare I say anything on the internet, this book was to me the most incredible,'unblytonesque' enid blyton book i had ever read.
Indeed as a child of blyton, i must say, as perhaps an odious, precocious, child i remember concluding this to myself, that as an Enid Blyton reader, like many, i had read, literally hundreds of her books, and had been vaguely aware of her, sexism, classism, anti-americanism, but i had borne that in mind, and disregarded it (it was part of the humour of the package) .
Lovee with book so much!!Rada2 mirips ama "House at The Corner" tapi beda2 rasa tipis walaupun sama 
Buku ini sangat memorable.
Buku novel tebel yang pertamaaaa kali kubaca, dan karena buku inilah, aku jadi suka baca novel sampai sekarang.
Berkesan banget makanya...
sayang, bukunya udah nggak tahu kemana T__T kayaknya waktu pindah rumah, ditinggal di rumah lama beserta buku-buku Enyd-ku yang lain....Ceritanya sederhana, tentang keluarga yang tinggal di rumah beratap merah.
Terus ada masalah-masalah yang terjadi dalam keluarga itu.
Aku lupa persisnya apa, tapi aku masih inget coklat panas yang diminum Molly malam-malam wkwkwk...
(yang diinget itunya doang)Pengen baca buku ini lagi...-----Baca ulang 5 Jan 2014 :">Kesan yang didapat nggak beda sama waktu SD dulu.
Tetep suka banget <3Dibaca untuk:- Lucky no.
It's been years since I last read this book and I have no idea where my copy is, but I loved it.
In my opinion, every kid should read it.
Either way I loved it and now I'm definitely going to raid my entire house looking for it.
Parents, this is a book you HAVE to make your kids read.
01-02-2014I love my university library.
If you want to know how much I loved this book, know this.
If you don't make your kids read this book, then they're missing out on the one of the best experiences they can have.
My favourite book growing up..
I am a large Blyton fan, have been since childhood. This is the story of four siblings who go through a fast maturing period after their mother becomes ill and then their father is believed dead. The children go out to work and learn to accept disappointment and changes to their lives.
Very good..
the story came to a good end....which satisfies me . I would be delighted to finish the whole 'family adventure ' set
it was a little emotional in the middle when everything went wrong but the end is very sentimental and happy.
It was a little slow for me. I felt that the book was uneventful however others i know have enjoyed it
Rencananya emang mo dipinjemin ke ponakanku (gak tega nyebut "dikasih")...Ceritanya tentang 1 keluarga yang pindah rumah ke rumah beratap merah.
Bahkan ketika bencana melanda keluarga mereka (ayah mereka kecelakaan dalam kapal yang menuju Amerika dan ibu mereka sakit keras sehingga harus dirawat di rumah sakit), toh keluarga ini tetap solid dan bahu membahu mencari nafkah untuk membiayai hidup mereka dan perawatan sang ibu di rumah sakit.Jangan lupakan jasa Jenny Wren, pengasuh dan pengurus rumah tangga yang tinggal di Atam Merah.
Juga jasa Jack Daw, tukang kebun harian mereka yang membawa koran berisi foto anak-anak, sehingga ayah mereka yang kecelakaan kapal laut bisa ditemukan kembali...
Yet another Enid Blyton that I inherited from a family friend, at least 30 years ago (and the book itself is probably at least 40 years old by now!).
The usual "Blyton-esque" family - hardworking father, sickly mother and four children (two boys and two girls) buying Redroofs.
They also have a gardener boy (Jack Daw) and a old-fashioned maid to take care of the house generally - Miss "Jenny" Wren.
Probably a little old-fashioned for the new generation, but always a good read for me :-0
The other day, I wanted to feel the nostalgia of Enid Blyton, and so went to the Teen section of the nearest library to find it.
There's parts of it that make me go hmm, such as Jack Daw being a person of color who doesn't talk well.
But, there's so many good parts such as respecting younger children and not belittling them because of their age, a hoity-toity teenager who actually just has abandonment issues, and an adorable dog.This is still a good book <3
This was another book for the 2015 challenge - a favourite book from childhood.
Man did I love this book when I was young, so much so that I actually have my original copy!!Boy oh boy, I know Enid Blyton's work is very dated and sexist - but I didn't realise to what an extent!!!!
The boy is given the responsibility of paying bills and managing the cheque book - because Mummy isn't good at this sort of thing and his older sister is just a girl
Kaget juga waktu search buku jadul ini terus muncul. Masih ada di rak dan masih bisa dibaca, walaupun keadaannya (terutama sampul depan-belakang) sudah ketekuk-tekuk. Ceritanya bagus buat para penikmat buku bertemakan kekeluargaan. Nilai-nilai dasar kebaikan seorang manusia juga diajarkan lewat buku ini secara tidak langsung. Kejujuran, kasih sayang, loyalitas, saling percaya, kerja keras, komplit ada di buku ini.
I can believe they have this one book...!!I can't remember when I read it...maybe at elementary school, and it became my fave ever since..I wonder where's that book now..?Telling a story about a family that live in a big red roof house. Once they were one perfect happy family, and when a tragedy happend (i think...) the family short of torn apart, but...as long as I remember, it's a happy ending!I'd love it found that book again ! anyone ? :)
I read Enid Blyton's Mallory Towers series at the recommendation of my British niece and really enjoyed the set (though I admit they have the somewhat stilted and moralistic tone found in children's literature from earlier eras). I saw this Enid Blyton's book in a store overseas and decided to try it. While adultsmay find the story a little predictable or far-reaching, it was perfect as light reading for fun while traveling.
It's the first long story I read when I was in school . I loved it since then .Back then I sort of imagined myself as one of the Jackson's and what would I do to help to bring money into the household . was thinking about it few days back . went to search for it in the store . found it nd enjoyed reading it again last evening . I just love it way too much , and I still cry a bit when I reach the emotional parts .
Pretty good Blyton standard. I was kind of horrified by the early scene where the dad is like "well, we can't afford this...but I'm probably getting promoted soon so we'll buy it anyway, and also get a gardener!" but I'm sure most kids won't notice it. The usual absolute gender norms but not too irritating, decent story.
I read this when I was in elementary school. I still remember, it was quite good book. It's sad in the middle but happy in the end.So sad that I lent this book to a friend, and it never returns.. I hope I could get a copy ot this book in Indonesia one day. :)
This was one of my favourite childhood books, I re-read it a couple of times as a child & I found a copy on Amazon a few months ago and bought it! It's a lovely story of children moving in to their new house and the carefree days that only young children know.
a good book with lots of emotions .... and a book that teaches us how stay calm and handle things when not going your way................
This is such a good book about the need to do the best you can and be the best you can be. Enid Blyton is such a good writer, she really inspired me as a child.
