https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33835.When_True_Night_Falls
When True Night Falls; Or, How Gerald Vryce Finally Learned to Stop Worrying and Love That Hunky Bombshell & Immortal Vampire Damian TarrantI don't have any issues with plus-sized people; several of my friends including people I've dated have been plus-sized and they are all compelling and adorable.
but with this book I've realized that I have a serious issue with a lithe and svelte novel of ideas that for some reason has decided to put on an enormous fatsuit and pretend that it is a big fat adventure and that it has always been this way.
Again simple plot as priest Damian and undead sorcerer Tarrant continue their uneasy alliance into another hearth of darkness but Erna is everything but a simple place and still one of most interesting fantasy (I see people calling it science fantasy but I disagree with that, this is high fantasy without much science elements) settings I came across.I found this book more enjoyable than than first one largely because this book doesn't involve Ciani who was annoying throughout most of the first book.
4.5 to 5.0 stars. Excellent sequel to the superb Black Sun Rising and book two of the Coldfire trilogy. I am a big fan of C.S. Friedman and this series is one of the big reasons why. Highly Recommended!!
With the rough and lumbering sort of swagger born in a creative storm’s dynamic struggle to express 
A civilization that believes so deeply in the religion which Damien serves as a priest and Sorcerer that the Fay, which reacts to the emotions, fears and imaginations of man, has no power over them.
A great deal of this book deals with the power of God as an idea, and the faith of the people to make things happen.
I spent a year of my life working as a full time preacher between stages of my college education, so to me, the questions of whether the faith of the people is still good, or whether it has been corrupted was a very interesting struggle within Damien.
Damien, Tarrant and Hesseth the Rakh woman (Rakhs are Ernas native species) dare to cross the ocean to find and destroy their enemy the Dark Prince who has built his palace in the Black Lands on the eastern continent. Arriving there after a long journey they find a wealthy empire but have soon to realize all that glitters isnt gold. They are forced to flee and embark on a journey to find the crystal palace of their enemy through a hostile wasteland. On their way they rescue the young girl Jensen
Damien, Tarrant and Hesseth the Rakh woman (Rakhs are Erna´s native species) dare to cross the ocean to find and destroy their enemy the Dark Prince who has built his palace in the Black Lands on the eastern continent.
They are forced to flee and embark on a journey to find the crystal palace of their enemy through a hostile wasteland.
600 pages are too much for our heroes not even coming anywhere near their real demonic antagonist.
-Ciani is absent from the book.-The 1st 40% bored the fuck out of me and could have been eliminated entirely or drastically reduced.
I skimmed most of it.-After the 40% it finally gets better.-There is no romance-Very repettitive-Hesseth dies -Jennsyne dies As I said above, the first 40% was painfully boring.
I am however glad that the suthor decided to not attempt another "romance" like the one in the first book which was beyond pitiful.
(Being a romance reader I feel I can vouch for that).The writing:Excellent in it style, but a bit overdone.
but it still felt like a bit of a re hash of the first book.
I really liked the writing style in the first book, but here it is even better.
The priest isn't so frustrating in this book (maybe that's because I got used to him...) and the relationship between him and the Hunter is maturing.
Generally, this obsession is better when compared to the first book.The Hunter is still my favorite character.
It's interesting and it keeps getting better.
P.S I enjoyed the philosophy expressed in the book through the priest and his relationship with the Hunter.
I think Scott Bakker should read this series to learn how to incorporate philosophy in his books.
Though, since I am writing this review after just finishing book three, I guess everything does make sense in some strange way.The characters Damien, Hesseth, and Tarrant decide to road trip across the plains.
Apparently over the last thousand years or more, three times mankind has tried to cross only to be slaughtered like crazy.Apparently on the other-side of the ocean, the world has not had any problems with the fae.
Since she is some strange part of the fae, she wants to clear her people of the problems mankind has dubbed them with.
It is a fairly straightforward adventure novel with a very small cast of characters spanning over 600 pages.
I’m sure that there are many scenes here and there that could be trimmed, but it never feels redundant.When True Night Falls is also just as dark, if not more so, than the previous novel.
By the end of Black Sun Rising, I never really felt like I got a chance to know much about the villain, who she was, and what her motivations were.
I had similar feelings during this novel, but the Prince was far better developed and more interesting.
I enjoyed everything from the basic background elements and the implied and actual politics, down to the actual physics of the magic.
In the end she explains why the magic works the way it does and again splits off on a road that I would have discouraged, but with such plausibility it comes out very well.
I would suggest these books to any one who enjoys fantasy literature.She follows this up by actually bringing the books to an end, something fantasy authors have forgotten how to do.
However, I was pleasantly surprised, and it was difficult to put it down each day and pace myself through a week of lunch breaks & train rides.That being said, Hesseth's death, while serving and obvious point, just seems silly and weak, and further emphasized to me, the weakness and lack of definition of the female "leads" in this book & Black Sun Rising.
Not to be stereotypical or anything, but I was somewhat surprised to find that the author is female, given her treatment of females (not treatment in the sense of treating them poorly, but treatment in the sense of a script treatment) in the books.
I did like Hesseth though, and wished for more for her.
You’ll want to read the first book, Black Sun Rising, first.
This review may spoil some of that first book’s plot.At the end of Black Sun Rising, Reverend Damien Vryce, the devout warrior priest, discovered the source of the evil that is infecting his country — it lies across the ocean where there exists another continent that humans are aware of but know nothing about.
Damien knows he should report to his church’s patriarch, but he’s afraid the patriarch will forbid him to go, so Damien ignores the man and instead boards a ship to cross the ocean.
Read More: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
Most of my gripes about this series can be found in my review of the first book, but I will say that the strongest part by far of this novel is the prologue, where we get more of the backstory of Friedman's world...and the worldbuilding is by far the strongest part of this series.
In this novel, the "map" gets enlarged and we get to discover new lands, new cultures, new threats...and that is all that kept me turning pages.The characters remain 2d and one trick, and even The Hunter is losing some of his mystique.
Still, this was a tighter plotted book than the first one, and hence the higher rating.
I read the first book in the trilogy, Black Sun Rising, and wanted to watch Damien and Gerald get under one another’s skin some more.How’d it go?Technical Problems: That’s right; I’m going to have a technical section.
I’m not one of those people who sit back and try to figure things out just so I can sit up later and yell, “I knew that was going to happen!” Challenge to writers: Go ahead and make your plot device character, but don’t kill them.
Newcomer Jenseny rounds out the main cast; I'll leave you to discover her.This book suffers from one of the same issues as the first volume: the villains spend much of their time off-camera, and thus there are only fleeting instances of any direct danger they may pose to our heroes.
This one takes the unusual but not unheard-of tack of sending our characters to a totally new land; at first I was disappointed, as I enjoyed the setting of the previous book and felt there was a lot more to learn there, but this new area expanded the world very nicely and actually facilitated some explanation of the magic system that, you'll recall, I felt was lacking last time around.
I actually think this is a much better book in just about every way.
It still feels like a JRPG, which isn't a bad thing, but this also brings me to my issue with the book.SPOILERSThe end to the novel's conflict is a seriously unpleasant manipulation.
The book has pushed this too far, I think, for me to gladly jump into another 600 page novel of the characters going on another journey where they're in continuous and ever escalating peril.END SPOILERSDespite that, I like everything that comes after the conflict's resolution.
I actually found this book more compelling and entertaining than the first, probably because the fairly insipid Ciani was out of it entirely, replaced with the awesome and cool Hesseth, a member of Erna's native species investigating the corruption of members of her own race.I think the main danger for readers of this trilogy lies in mistaking what happens *to* the characters for the A-plot.
The core of the trilogy is the what happens *between* Damien Vryce and Gerald Tarrant, two diametrically opposed characters bound by mutual need but separated by prejudice, fear, distrust, competing motives, and religious doctrine.
The Coldfire Trilogy continues, following the priest/knight Damien and the 1000 year old sorcerer/vampire (not exactly) Tarrant and their quest to stop the demon Calesta and the human he's working with in the Eastern continent.
What makes this paring interesting is that Tarrant, once the founder and prophet of the church Damien belongs to is now essentially an evil entity (perhaps lawful evil for those who played D&D) and Damien is definitely a good knight and priest (originally lawful good).
Damien definitely has a good influence on Tarrant and Tarrant makes Damien's world more complicated, which is good for plot and character development.
The concept and story is good, the characters are interesting, but it's probably about 50% too long.
And how many times and how long must we hear about him and is angst (almost teenage) about Tarrant.
For God's sake it's starting to get almost Bella and Edward like but Damian and Gerald instead.I will see the series through, I mean I've come this far, but I really hope that maybe the Author has learnt that less is more??
Maybe Damian and Gerald should just kiss and get past the tension so that we can move on ;) kidding of course!
My biggest complaint about this book is about the characters.
That, honestly, is about as much as I can, or care, to remember about them.My next complaint is with the moral conflict that Vryce is experiencing.
Every decision that Vryce makes is punctuated by him whining about the moral implications of said decision.
It became frustratingly monotonous.My third complaint is the pacing of the novel.
Near the end I found myself skipping and skimming over way too many paragraphs.I can not recommend this book on the sole basis that I was unable to finish it.
I'm liking this much better than Black Sun Rising, which although deeply flawed was strangely compelling.
I'm not sure what it is with C.S. Friedman and why I am suddenly finding the need to read all her books.
Her work is a strange mix of sci-fi, fantasy, and horror and all the characters are really dark.
In fact all the protagonists seem to either completely lack any sense of a moral center or are fanatically attached to some unrealistic ideal of good....But it's like I am being sucked into her world and have no will to stop reading her.
First of all, while "True Night" is mentioned in the book (as what happens when both light sources in the sky, the sun and the galactic core, both set), it has zero relevance to the actual plot.
So bad there.This book is fitfully interesting.
There's probably a good 300-page book in there somewhere.
Some passages are badly overwritten, there are large travel sections where little interesting happens, there are (somewhat surprisingly) no decent female characters, not even compared to the one in the first book, who unfortunately doesn't show up in this one.
Although I enjoyed the returning characters as well, Hesseth really stole the book for me. Something about the native woman's indomitable spirit completely appealed to me. Warning: this book contains some character death.
Just as dark and even more character-driven, the second installment is a great continuation of the series. Top-notch.
Interesting...
Definitely longer than it should have been. It started out interesting, but then went downhill from there. It didn't pick up again until (view spoiler)[ they were captured by the Terata and found Jenseny. (hide spoiler)] Then it died out again, sinking back into unnecessary details and ramblings, mostly Vryce's musings about Tarrant and how much better Tarrant is than him. (view spoiler)[ But when we first realized Tarrant might betray them all: that was brilliant. (hide spoiler)] I did like the
(hide spoiler)] Then it died out again, sinking back into unnecessary details and ramblings, mostly Vryce's musings about Tarrant and how much better Tarrant is than him.
(view spoiler)[ But when we first realized Tarrant might betray them all: that was brilliant.
(hide spoiler)] I did like the little part with the mermaids; that was a nice touch.
Really the first entire half of the book could've been reduced to three or four chapters and probably been all the more engaging for it.
The last part of the book, "The Black Lands," was really great though.
Pretty disappointing - partially for very spoiler reasons (character actions and decisions at the end are angering and baffling), but partially because the long meandering 'will they won't they' style from the previous book returns with a vengeance here.
I don't really feel like anything much was added.
The characters either feel the same, as avatars of the author arguing with themselves, or are so completely blank-slate that we never get to know them even after traveling with them for some time.
The length of the book doesn't do it any favors.
Not planning on continuing on with the series at this time.
The plot itself is also more complex, and more directly focused on the concepts introduced in Book 1's worldbuilding -- where Book 1's villain largely focused on a plot that could have been done with any theoretical system of magic, Book 2's villain only works in a setting where the magic works the way it does in this series, and that's an important distinction.
I do think this volume got a little bit too grimdark, and there are one or two moments that felt contrived, but overall this continues to be a solid take on high fantasy tropes and a good story on top of it.
Getting very repetitive...I agree with many others, so much could have been cut to condense and subsequently enhance my enjoyment of this series.
It's taking me everything to continue as it feels so drawn out.
I also have been listening to the audiobook and I'm not entirely convinced the narrator hasn't affected my judgment too.I believe I was first aware of this series due to one of my favorite author's rating...Peter V.
Brett gave this series a 5 star rating.It's good to see that all of us aren't made the same and enjoy the same things equally...that being said, so far, I wouldn't recommend this series to my past self should I have the opportunity to do so.
