https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5067.Triple
Reto #36 PopSugar 2018: Un libro ambientado en la década en que naciste ¡¡Qué pedazo de novela!! Una trama terriblemente enrevesada pero a la vez adictiva y bien contada, al estilo inconfundible de Ken Follett, que permite que no te pierdas entre tanto Servicio Secreto, espías y contraespionaje (siempre y cuando te mantengas atento). Por ahí leí que está basada en un hecho real, la Operación Plumbat, llevada a cabo por el Mossad en 1968 con el objetivo de conseguir el material que Israel necesi
Por ahí leí que está basada en un hecho real, la Operación Plumbat, llevada a cabo por el Mossad en 1968 con el objetivo de conseguir el material que Israel necesitaba para construir armas nucleares, pero hasta ahí llega la similitud, dudo que cualquier información sobre los hechos reales haya salido del cerrado círculo en que se mantenía este tipo de información durante la Guerra Fría.Por lo mismo, me asombra el ingenio de Follett al desarrollar una historia tan compleja, pero a la vez contundente y con personajes caracterizados de forma impecable en el contexto de la novela.
Como dato, el título hace referencia a la coincidencia en la trama de los servicios secretos de Israel, Egipto y la Unión Soviética.Libro recomendadísimo para quienes gustan de las novelas de espionaje duro.
Só após aliviado da respectiva carga, é que o cargueiro foi devolvido à origem ...Tendo em conta que os pormenores mais sórdidos da operação urânio, permaneceram na obscuridade, Ken Follet, após uma acurada investigação, reconstituiu o evento, preenchendo os espaços em branco com uma sagacidade tal, que a própria Mossad andou a indagar sobre quais teriam sido as suas fontes, pois este Triplo ficcional, rasava perigosamente a verdade ;)Em suma, o que temos aqui está longe de ser um thriller banal!
This is a fun, 'spy' based novel.
But there are two other spy characters that get involved, giving the book it's name (I think...).Early in the book, the main character is tasked with stealing a huge amount of Uranium for Israel.
If anything, he comes across as Israel neutral, which is quite the accomplishment for a book where you are engaged in rooting for the main character to acquire critical materials for Israel's nuclear bomb program.
(While officially, Israel may or may not have 'the bomb', they also don't deny having it).Thankfully, this book avoids the politics, and simply presents the story.
For the most part, it was written well enough. But the structure was a bit messy. Some parts were rushed while others were drawn out. It didn’t hold my attention that well; I couldn’t read more than 40 pages in a single sitting. The story could have been better with this premise.Not particularly memorable.
Una obra ingeniosa como solo Follett logra hacerla a partir de sucesos reales, mezclado con una trama creada de manos de uno de los mejores autores que he leído.Es una novela emocionante, con un ritmo acelerado que no decae, llena de conspiraciones y espías.100% recomendada
Efectivo como - casi- todos los de Follet, pero para mí a distancia de Alto Riesgo, La clave está en Rebeca o por supuesto Los pilares de la Tierra. 7/10
Another fun spy novel/action thriller by Ken Follett! Triple is about operative Nathaniel Dickstein is given the task of stealing 200 tons of Uranium for Israel to produce the atomic bomb, for the war against the Middle East. But it turns out Dickstein isn't the only one after it, the Russian KGB is after the Uranium, and a team of Fedayeen Terrorists are after it as well. After reading a couple chapters I understood why the book was titled Triple, it involves 3 different parties that are after the Uranium for different reasons.An enjoyable Espionage/spy novel and interesting characters!
Triple is another masterpiece - a Spy thriller based in the year 1968 when Israel were believed to have pulled off a mighty coup by stealing a huge consignment of Uranium ore(see attached pic).
There's Nat Dickstein the English Jew(who goes on to become a top Mossad agent), a Russian named Rostov (predictably a future KGB colonel), an Arab named Hassan(Egyptian intelligence and later something more deadly), a Sicilian-American named Al Cortone(we all know what Sicilians are known for), the Professor's lovely Lebanese Wife (who Nat has a crush on) and the couple's lovely 5 yr old daughter (another vital character in the future).
Que livro mais estranho!Carregado de cenas exageradas, inverosímeis, impossíveis, forçadas e muito pouco realistas.Um dos piores livros do Ken Follett!
Nathaniel Dickstein é o protagonista deste novo livro de Ken Follett publicado pela Presença. Original de 1979, Triplo, talvez devido aos três agentes duplos que trabalham para diferentes países, é um livro de espionagem, muito ao estilo de James Bond. E não falta a bond girl, uma mulher exótica e demasiado bela por quem o protagonista, como não podia deixar de ser, se vai apaixonar.Opinião completa aqui: http://marcadordelivros.blogspot.pt/2...
Another great book by Ken Follett. This is a thriller that will keep you turning the pages. Looking forward to the next release, as I have now read all of his books that I can find.
As a fan and author of historical fiction, I am a great admirer of Follett's work. However, this one was a bit too much James Bond for my taste. Still a good read overall.
Awesome and really close to what really happened (something he didn't know at the time he wrote it).
As I read this novel, I was reminded of the stylistic difference between other authors I read in the 1970s (Ambler, Forsyth, Greene, Le Carre) and how the espionage thriller has changed in the post- Tom Clancy era.
Now some of the enemies are the same but the interpersonal relations have changed.
Now a four man team will wipe out an enemy platoon and perhaps suffer a leg wound or a grazed scalp.
In Triple, a band of terrorists were attacked by a team of Mossad agents and 7 of 12 agents were killed.
Dreifach ist im gewohnten Follett Stil aufgebaut; einzelne Erzählstränge laufen zusammen, kreuzen und ergänzen sich perfekt. Die Charaktere sind wie immer sehr fesselnd, haben ihre Geheimnisse und Schattenseiten. Ein gutes Tempo und spannende Wendungen sind auch hier wieder Teil der Geschichte. Einzig und allein der Showdown war dieses Mal ein wenig kurz und hätte gerne spektakulärer sein können. Nichtsdestotrotz hat mir Dreifach sehr gut gefallen und ich bin froh, dass die Lies-Mich-Challenge mich zu diesem Buch hat greifen lassen, ansonsten hätte es vermutlich noch einige Zeit auf meinem SuB verbracht!
ShowstopperRead this a as a holiday read,couldn't put it down. Thought the plot got silly at one point but was redeemed by the pace of this thriller . Excellent thinking man's James Bond.
Vedi il commento a La cruna dell'ago.
Ken Follett, as gripping as always!
3.5
A fast passing book pure Follet plenty of surprises to keep you on your toes.
Tecnicamente, gli ho assegnato una stellina, perché credo sia esattamente questa la valutazione più adatta a rappresentare il mio stato d'animo durante la lettura... Però una cosa bisogna dirla: questo, a modo suo, è uno di quei libri che fanno parecchio ridere, ragazzi... Se "Die Hard" e "Scary Movie" avessero avuto un figlio segreto, credo che il suo aspetto sarebbe stato più o meno questo!
A good plot, but a chaotic finish left me wanting for a more descriptive ending.
Perhaps my least favourite read of Ken Follett :S Perhaps, it wasn't just "my" topic afterall - shameful to admit I wasn't aware of the real background of the story, moreovere the whole idea of making the nuclear bomb and stealing the input for this operation didn't excite me as much as other Follett's plots.I've read the first 50 pages and I still didn't understand what it was all about: an agent (working for whom?) meeting a professor (why?) at the airport, another double agent (working for whom and whom?) waiting for the same professor and following him (where?), another unknown agent (whose agent?) killing the first agent (what for?) and reporting to some Big Important guy..
I was shocked to find no movie was made of this beautifully-plotted, highly-visual spy-action thriller."Triple" just moved to the top of my list of best action-thrillers, & I have read scores of them.
Action-thriller-readers must admit in their heart of hearts that a very good read based in historical fact leaps to the top of the pile for its credibility factor.
Most of the book is a good thriller: good, not great writing; moves quickly; good, engaging plotting.
The ending, a slog of action scenes (perhaps I'm spoiled by William Goldman) and too much resolution through killing off bad guys.
It just gets assumed at the end that they believe Nat and don't plug her when they arrive in Israel.And maybe the biggest problem for me: we spend a lot of time—or is it just lip-service—building sympathy for Yasif and the Palestinian cause.
And why does it become so easy for Nat to kill him?
(And Mahmoud getting killed by a stray bullet.
The plot revolves around an attempt by the Israelis to pull off a heist that will put them on a more equal military footing with their Arab neighbours.The main character in Triple is Dickstein, the Israeli agent.
He is a bit of a James Bond type, albeit without being such a ladies man despite finding time for a little romance.
In fact, he's a bit too good sometimes.
I listened to the audio version and unfortunately the narrator tried a bit too hard, giving a comical feel to some of the accents.
That said, Triple is a decent spy thriller with an interesting Middle Eastern theme.
This is one of Follett's early efforts and is very good....a British Jew who attended Oxford and then served in WWII before being captured and sent to a concentration camp is the main character.
After the war he emigrates to Israel and becomes a topflight Mossad agent.
His assignment in 1967 is to hijack a uranium shipment needed by Israel so that they can make their own nuclear weapons.
This assignment brings him back into contact with several of his former student associates at Oxford prior to WWII....
It is a good read and hard to put down as the story nears its climax.
One of Ken Follett's older spy novels. A quick, easy, enjoyable read with the bonus of shedding some light on the history of Israel. Would recommend if you are a Follett fan, but it's a pass otherwise.
The book is about the espionage triangle between Russia/Egypt in one corner and Israel and Palestinian in the other two corner. It was started slow when the author trying to establish the story between all parties....or maybe it was me not having enough attitude to remember all the details :-) But if you could have a little bit more patience, all are getting more exciting towards the end. The closure however, was quick and painless....too quick and too easy. All in all, there are parts in this book that really captivate me, others are just okay for me.
A little confusing at times and, as Follett will do, goes into so much technical detail. This story talks about the race to develop nuclear/atomic weapons sometime around the 1960's and 70's. A spy novel with three countries competing for ways to get plutonium, Russia, Arabs and maybe Palestine. (listened to the audio)
