https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64955.Midnight
Koontz, you did it again!  THE RE-ASSURANCE OF FINDING A FAVORITE AUTHOR After my happy encounter of the great author Dean Koontz in the novel Phantoms (see my review of that one here.) (back then in 1992). I knew that I want to read more books by him.My second novel was this one, Midnight. And I am glad to say that I chosen well.By then, I still wasn't able to read on English yet, so that novel I read on Spanish then. At that moment I didn't know much about which novels to choose from Dean Koo
After my happy encounter of the great author Dean Koontz in the novel Phantoms (see my review of that one here.) (back then in 1992).
Something that also I admired of him, his honesty, since there isn't anything to be ashamed in admiting his inspirations for his own original novel.I hate when an author doesn't admit that he/she watched some movie or he/she read some book and saying that it's a "coincidence" the similarities on the stories.
Despite being a classic horror novel, it's one of my warm blanket reads because it reminds me of the time when I was young and branching out into new genres.
It hits on so many of the deepest fears we can hold: loss of our humanity; being forced into the role of prey, chased in the dark by unknown predators; not knowing who is friend or foe; indiscriminate death, where even children aren't safe; the sometimes incomprehensible, almost alien forms of technological innovation...On top of all that, it's got that perfect mix of silly and scary.
I dare anyone to read this book and then go outside in the dark without repeatedly checking their surroundings and jumping at every noise.
Strong heroine/ female protagonist, super smart dog, sociopathic/megalomaniacal antagonist, science gone horribly wrong, a group of people have to save the day, blossoming romance between seemingly opposite characters, a small town, California setting and a good yet, corny ending lol.
The storyline is interesting and Koontz makes the terror and science behind the danger seem feasible especially in today's highly technological society.
Koontz throws in several horror and science fiction movie references that a die hard fan like myself really appreciated.

I find many similarities between Midnight and Dean Koontz's Frankenstein Series - the ideas of control & improvements upon human conditions getting out of control.A funny quote:".
. had so many corn-chip crumbs sprinkled across the front of her royal-blue sweater that she appeared to be breading herself with the intention of going into the kitchen, climbing into an oven, and becoming food."-Midnight, Chapter 12A favorite quote:"Even as a child, she had preferred night to day, had enjoyed sitting out in the yard after sunset, under the star-speckled sky listening to frogs and crickets.
The night was bigger than the day, and in its realm, life seemed to have more possibilities."-Midnight, Chapter One
This is one of Koontz's better novels--totally creepy, and totally awesome.
Plus, the afterword at the end made me giggle.The reason this novel resonated so strongly with me is because I can identify with the residents of Moonlight Cove who were losing touch with their emotions.
There was a time a few years ago when I suffered from extreme depression and anxiety.
I was prescribed an antidepressant, and lo and behold, the depression went away!But so did everything else.
YES!!!"So, Mr. Koontz, congratulations for successfully touching my heart.
I want to comment on this because I really didn't care for it, but my late wife loved this and some other Koontz books that I don't care for (at least as much).
So in honer of her I gave it 3 stars recognizing that there will be people who like some of this writer's books while others don't.
I note that many of the ones I don't care for both my wife and daughter like.
But, I can't really build on that as my daughter and I liked The Taking, and my wife didn't...sigh.
One of my favorite of Koontz's. Again primarily for the beginning and first part of the story. Here, he again manages to tell a good sci-fi/horror mix without too much focus on tooth-achingly good protagonists and cliched bad guys. This one is very recommended.
The only Dean Koontz book I ever read. I don't remember a thing about this book, but I do remember that reading it turned me off of ever wanting to try another Dean Koontz book.
I'm sometimes not a big fan of Koontz writing style but I remember thinking this was great.And definitely worth a re-read.

He is trying to convert the humans of Moonlight Cove.
Standing against him are an FBI agent, disillusioned with life; a woman who came to Moonlight Cove, suspicious of her sister's death; a disabled veteran whose view of responsibility questions the values of Shaddack (the bad guy): an 11-year-old girl who has lost her parents due to the conversion and of course a lovable, loyal lab who brings affection and love to the good guys.
This is one of Koontz's best as he explores the nature of what it means to be human and the constant battle of good vs.
Warning this review contains spoilersI read this book as part of a group read for the month of April, for the Koontzland group.
If I was asked who would I recommend this book to it would be fans of the x files.The book starts off with strange deaths, murders and suicides, but what's even stranger is the way in which the bodies are disposed of by the authorities.
Finally we are introduced to the books bad guy a genius who is basically a crazed lunatic who wants to speed up evolution.
Things start to go horribly wrong and unforeseen side effects completely destroy the plan.
Un libro con una historia super adictiva, el autor combina el terror y la ciencia ficción dándonos unas aterradoras creaturas, y una historia brutal.Los personajes de Medianoche me parecieron excelentes, unos personajes que te van a hacer vivir y sentir la pérdida de alguien y la emoción de sobrevivir a aquella perdida. Les recomiendo mucho este libro por su historias por sus personajes, por esas creaturas aterradoras, esas creaturas que solo quieren comer y matar.
This is my favorite Koontz novel, although it's very close to Phantoms. I think this is a lesson in how a thriller should be written. Just a wonderful work.
Whilst it gave me more time to read – added hours onto a journey have tiny benefits, even if we do not see them at the time – the fact that it was the middle of the night and the reading lights stopped working meant I couldn’t read as much as this as I wanted to.Thus, my start to the story was not what it should have been.Oh, I was pulled in – but I was unable to work through as much of it as I wanted to.
As always when my journey turns into a nightmare, I really wasn’t up for reading the next couple of days.
He finds all deaths are cremated.(3) Chrissie Foster(11) escapes from parents, Alex/Sharon, ready to convert her to "New People".(4) Tessa Lockland(filmmaker) - Janice's sister finds Moonlight police coroner saying it's suicide & cremation.Shaddock & Chief Loman Watkins kill "Regressives" not wanting to be "New People".
Can Sam, Chrissie, Tessa stop Shaddock creating his "New People"?First read March 2015New York Times Number 1 Best Seller, February 1989 (hawes.com).
The mystery's lead characters; wheelchair veteran bound, Harry Talbort, seeing cremations, Sam Booker (FBI) finding bones, Tressa Lockland looking for a missing sister and Christine Foster(11) running from her parents converted into "new people".
This is one of Dean Koontz's earlier novels and originally written in 1989.
Despite its age it still holds up pretty well as a straight up horror novel where the citizens of a nice little town turn into horrifying blood-lusty creatures all thanks to a power-hungry geeky rich madman.
Come to think of it, this is even scarier stuff in this day and age .
I know, I know, I sound more like a grandma everyday.Like many a Koontz novel this one does go on (and on) a wee bit too long but it's a minor complaint as it kept me entertained without wanting to put it down never to be picked up again.
Grips you from the beginning and gets stranger and more intriguing from there.Publisher's SummaryIn picturesque Moonlight Cove, California, inexplicable deaths occur, and spine-tingling terror descends to this edge of paradise.
Independent and clever, she meets up with Sam Booker, an undercover FBI agent sent to Moonlight Cove to discover the truth behind the mysterious deaths.They meet Harry Talbot, a wheelchair-bound veteran, who has seen things from his window that he was not meant to see.
Together they begin to understand the depth of evil in Moonlight Cove.
Together they make a stand against darkness and terror.
This book grabbed my attention right from the beginning!
The last really good book by Dean Koontz that I'd read is Watchers, and I loved that one.
I just think it's incredible how one author can put so many different emotions into his books, to me, that's a good writer.
There are times he's got you on the edge of your seat or biting your nails in horror, and times when he's got you laughing out loud.I had read a lot of the reviews on Midnight and I see that some people loved it, others not so much, so I thought I'd give it a shot and I haven't come back disappointed.
I usually do not care for the science fiction type, but this book was creepy and made me think about what really goes on out in the world. It is like a big brother feeling. It has been awhile since I read this, but the main character is investigating weird happenings of a town. Meanwhile a little girl escapes her fate. They meet up eventually through this mass of events (so pay attention)and in the end the mystery is solved. It is not real, but it makes you think what about what people will do gain power and control others.
From page 104: "Harry stared at the apelike countenance, thought it was leaner and uglier and more fierce and infinitely stranger than the face of an ape." This sort of writing makes me crazy.
The plot of this book has most of the citizens of a small town being changed to so-called "New People" in an experiment of which they are unwilling members.
The protagonist Sam is bitter at the beginning of the novel because he has had a near death experience and didn't like what he saw on the other side.
Weird, weird, weird. Never will forget the part where one of the characters ends up bonding physically to his computer. Ick! My least favorite Koontz. Could be that I chose this to read for my 11th grade English class because my evil teacher wouldn't let me read White Fang by Jack London, which is much better, because he deemed it a children's book. So I picked this edgy, 'adult' book. Yes, I'm a little bitter.
I read this book years ago. I liked it then and I still like it today. There are some things the author does extremely well (tension, building to an enjoyable climax). Others, like the 11-year-old girl who doesn't act anything like an 11-year-old girl, he doesn't do well. Still, an enjoyable read.
Scary. Don't read before going to sleep. Recommended.
I'm still working on becoming a Dean Koontz fan. I love Stephen King, so it would make sense to like Koontz? I just haven't found one I love yet... suggestions welcome!
Loved it! Good old fashioned horror, just what I was in the mood for.
It was written in 1989, so the technology is almost laughably outdated - at least one of the computers is so high-tech that it can boot up without a floppy disk, other computers are described as being "upper end, hard-disk systems", and several moments of tension revolve around the search for a working payphone - but this is hardly a flaw and is actually only noticeable because the rest of the book remains pretty timeless.The characters are generally compelling, likeable, and all-too-human instead of superficially flawed, but there are a few false notes here.
Other than those things, though, Midnight is still a pretty enjoyable read...
I should've known from page 39, when Shaddack floats in a sensory-deprivation tank and experiences orgasmic bliss (literally) at the thought of world domination that this might not be my kinda book.I should've known from the chapters inside the head of a precocious 11 year old girl who manages to find the whimsical giddiness in life despite the fact that her parents are trying (literally) to kill her that this might not be my kinda book.And then I should've known when, in the middle of a shit-hitting-the-fan crisis, two of the main characters exchange witty banter about why the man is such a Gloomy Gus (literally those words) while cooking a scrumdiddliumptious breakfast that this might not be my kinda book.Usually, when I realize these things, I stop reading.
This was pretty terrible.
I didn't expect it to be a great piece of modern literature- I picked it up expecting something quick, fun, and brainless.
Unfortunately, even though my expectations were low, they still weren't met.
It's a lovely, close-knit town, which has benefitted financially and technologically from a local tech company.
Of course, since this is a Dean Koontz novel, the company's founder is an evil megalomaniac whose plans to use technology to shape the world run amok.
A series of violent deaths prompts the FBI to an undercover agent to the town.
I didn't expect realism, originality or an understated story, but this was just unacceptably cheesy.
