https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25494343-lady-midnight
Given, some of that may have to do with the fact that this is the first totally new and full novel I've read from Cassie Clare in 2014, but I do believe most of it is attributed to the fact that she's grown as a writer and story teller.From page one of this book, I can already sense a level of sophistication and improvement in her writing.
From there on, this book is a non stop thriller with everything you could possibly want from a new installment of the Shadowhunter Chronicles.Lady Midnight has taken the Shadow World further than I've ever imagined.
THIS FIRST PART WAS ORIGINALLY WRITTEN IN 2012.Jesus the book isn't even out yet and you guys are trashing it already.
If she really just wanted more money, she wouldn't work so hard on all of this beautiful material she's creating for US.
Some people do it by working at jobs that they absolutely hate and some, like Ms. Clare, do it by sticking with what they're passionate about.
Her books are amazing and if you don't like them, that's fine.
But it's rude to trash talk a series that isn't even written yet.
It's amazing, but nothing can come to Clockwork Princess (not yet).Original Review:My favorite Cassandra Clare book so far, including Clockwork Princess.
Especially how Ty, Mark, and Arthur had complex and different ways of thinking and dealing with issues.
I'm so happy that Cassandra Clare wrote about mental illnesses in the Shadowhunter community and why we haven't really seen it so far in any of her other books.
I also am happy that Julian, the love interest, wasn't like all of the other love interests that we've seen so far in her books: jokey and sarcastic.
By far the most rich story Cassie has put out to date.
OH MAN. STILL PROCESSING EVERYTHING. BUT OH MAN THIS WAS GREAT. FULL VIDEO REVIEW TO COME!
LADY MIDNIGHT tore me apart then pieced me back together....then tore me apart again.LOVED this book!A very detailed review will be up on my channel later this week! :)
Definitely Mark, Ty, Livvy, Dru, Tavvy and Julian (SPECIALLY JULIAN) now have a spot in my heart.- So, Julian, I love him, but not in the "book boyfriend" way, is more like he's my son and I have to protect him from the evils of this world.
Cassandra Clare really knows how to create great characters!- I obviously ship Emma and Julian (and I'm rooting for them), but OMG, the whole thing that happened at the end left me RAGING.
I love the Shadowhunter universe, and I really like that Cassie keeps adding things we didn't know!
“Entreat me not to leave thee,Or return from following after thee-For whither thou goest, I will go”  The parabatai oath always makes me weep.By the Angel, my hands are shaking as I'm trying to compose a decent review. I feel broken beyond repair, Cassandra Clare's words ravaged my sanity, shattered my soul and now I'm on my knees searching for tiny fragments, trying to put together what's left of me.  “I was a child and she was a child,In this kingdom by the sea,But we loved with a love that
I feel broken beyond repair, Cassandra Clare's words ravaged my sanity, shattered my soul and now I'm on my knees searching for tiny fragments, trying to put together what's left of me.
And then came Lady Midnight and I realized that no power, earthy or heavenly, could have prepared me for this, no iratze could heal my broken heart, no amount of words could possibly describe how much I love this woman, even though she is such a sadist.
The tension, the longing, the understanding between them gave us a love story that can inspire poems because of its beauty and its tragedy.
I'm so happy I decided to reread Lady Midnight.
I feel it really helped me get a better grasp on the plot and the characters.
I feel so much more in love with this story (as if I was not the first time).
I definitely cried so much AGAIN because of all the feels, and I think I have a new found appreciation for certain parts of the story!
The story was just as powerful, the characters just as loveable, and I'm just gushing at this point because I love Lady Midnight so much.
**UPDATE** 6/23/13: WAIT.I'M PROBABLY REALLY LATE ON THIS BUT, DAT IS NOT THE COVER FOR THE BOOK....IS IT?!...IT BETTER NOT BE.
I'M KIDDING MYSELF...haha...*nerve-wracked*UPDATE (2013): HONESTLY PEOPLE.
STOP HATING BEFORE THE BOOK IS EVEN OUT.
Of course us fans are happily gonna buy them and make her some money because WE WANT TO READ THEM.
It's not like she's forcibly coming into our homes and forcing us to buy or read her books.SO SERIOUSLY.
I rest my case.Sincerely~Seriously Pissed***(2012): At first, I'm like, What's gonna happen to us when all the shadowhunter themed books are over?
Tavvy, who is TOO CUTE THO.• Emma is badass and sassy and I LOVE HER.• Christina is so precious tho.• It's so so funny• Listening to the audio was actually a problem because I SMILED LIKE A DERANGED BAT SO OFTEN I'm sure my family was wondering what even.• most accurate and well-portrayed Autistic character of them all and my heart beats so much for this.• BEST PLOT• I LOVE ALL THE CHARACTERS.• I'M SMITTEN.• SOMEONE REMOVE ME FROM THIS SOBBING PUDDLE I AM IN AND GET ME LORD OF SHADOWS.***
1.) City of Bones ★★★2.) City of Ashes ★★3.) City of Glass ★★★1.) Clockwork Angel ★★★4.) City of Fallen Angels ★2.) Clockwork Prince ★★★★5.) City of Lost Souls ★★★★3.) Clockwork Princess ★★★★★6.) City of Heavenly Fire ★★★★★*.) The Bane Chronicles ★★★*.) Tales from the Shadowhunter Academy ★★★  “No one is ever the villain of their own story.”  Lady Midnight was completely worth me reading eleven back-list Cassie Clare titles for. Holy shit, this book was everything. Everything. And honestly this
Basically, in Lady Midnight Emma is still unable to let the mysterious deaths of her parents go unsolved, even though everyone else thinks they were just the first casualties of the start of the Dark War. But it has been five years since then, and the Cold Peace is still being held up by the Shadowhunters, making it so no one can help or work with the fae.
Spoilers ahead!(Perfect art by Loweana - who seriously makes my favorite art for every single fandom; The Cruel Prince, Six of Crows, and now The Dark Artifices!)➽ Emma Carstairs - My queen, my love, my entire heart.
DEAL.This book was incredible and this series may topple TID as my favorite in the Shadowhunter world if it continues this way.
Definitely the strongest first book in any of the series for sure.There were so many things that were RIGHT about this book, but especially the characters.
They were fantastic and wonderful and their journey was HEARTBREAKING but still amazing and I just can't deal guys I can't.This book broke me into a million pieces so I honesty don't know how I'm going to survive the rest of the books.I may reread this immediately because I do want to video review it but also I just need it in my life again..REREAD BEFORE LOS ALSO HOPEFULLY TO DO A VIDEO REVIEW.So many things.
My heart.

i also love how there are many diverse characters and aspects, but they weren't the main focus; it's there and it's important but it's not flung in your face.cassandra clare's ability to create more depth in the shadow world never fazes to amaze me.
one of the conflicts of the story follows family relationships and the like, which i LOVE because i feel like there's more to YA drama than romance and monsters; LADY MIDNIGHT has all three!
like, I'm glad I enjoyed this, but wow fuck you guys this broke my heart and the only thing I got out of it was my new favorite tumblr blogSo, uh, it turns out I like Cassandra Clare books now, and I think she's just improved significantly at creating lovable characters and narratives I personally find compelling, and I am so glad I have learned to love this.  ➽P L O T A N D T H E M E S  The villain of this book is hate and oppression. The amount of clave-dragging in here…… I’ve been waiting for
like, I'm glad I enjoyed this, but wow fuck you guys this broke my heart and the only thing I got out of it was my new favorite tumblr blogSo, uh, it turns out I like Cassandra Clare books now, and I think she's just improved significantly at creating lovable characters and narratives I personally find compelling, and I am so glad I have learned to love this.
✔Emma Carstairs - a literal ICON, invented big dick energy✔Julian Blackthorn - definitely would kill a man for his own selfish motivations but listen… he's in love with Emma, that's too relatable and therefore i can't hate him[source for both]I literally love that the main couple of this is a reversed bad boy / good girl who’s maybe turning evil dynamic.
I am absolutely in love with Mark, ❤ the half faerie half shadowhunter that was taken in the last book of the mortal instruments.
He had to go to the faerie realm because of reasons and now he's back to try to help the Blackthorns and Emma find who are murdering faeries and such.
And it seems for good reason as Jem states to Emma at the end of the book.
I really wanted Emma to end up with Mark because he's hot and he's a little wild like Emma.
They help anyway because the same markings that are on the dead were on Emma's parents when they were brutally killed.
“The stars wheeled crazily overhead as she spun, sucking in her breath as her body slowed its rolling. She came to a stop on her back, her hair and clothes full of sand and her ears full of the sound of the wildly crashing ocean…”  To the people who say that Cassandra Clare is dragging this on, milking the cow, etc: PLEASE STOP. There's people all over the world who are grateful for these books and series. Don't ruin it for everyone else. You don't have to like Cassie. You don't have to read h
Prior to reading The Mortal Instruments and The Infernal Devices, I too criticized the fact that Cassie only wrote books within her Shadowhunter world.
It was actually refreshing after putting up with bratty Clary for six books.As for Julian Blackthorn -- he made this book for me.
I loved the friendship between Emma and Julian ever since they were introduced in City of Heavenly Fire.
The tension between Emma and Julian throughout this whole book was just so thick it drove me 

I had to know what was going to be for them in the future.Enter Lady Midnight and just nah.Probably one of things I hated the most was how in-your-face was the whole romance between Emma and Julian because for years we were sold the idea of how unthinkable was a romance between parabatai and I expected so much and more from this book and I didn’t get it at all.I don’t know if I was misguided or maybe it was just me but I thought that, at least in this first book, Julian’s feelings were going to be unrequired.
True, I have my own complaints about never ending series, but when you have someone as talented as Cassie, IT KIND OF MAKES SENSE FOR HER TO WRITE MORE.
When everybody asked for more books in TMI series.) Honestly, I'm sure Cassie has other writing projects that she does that don't involve Shadowhunters, but I'm getting sick of biased people of judging simply because this would be the third series of Shadowhunters that Cassie will be writing.
Or fans of Evermore, when Alyson Noel decided to write a series on Ever's sister.)Why judge so harshly, read the book first.
Predictable This book is nearly shit, obviously.
The sunlight illuminated his eyelashes.I read something like that at the beginning of the book when she described Julian.
The rest of the book was just Clare describing how beautiful Julian looked at every hour of the day, or in every angle.
I've seen this kind of crap way too many times for me to melt into a puddle of water.Emma is disappointing.
Literally all Emma thinks of is Julian.
The only characters I enjoyed reading about were Mark and Christina.
I would love to read more about them in the next books.
Everyone told me that I wouldn't appreciate the old characters who popped in if I didn't read the other books first, but the appearances were done in a way that really didn't matter much to the story...
like they're mostly thrown in so fans can see that everything is still happy with their favorites.BUT NOW FOR THIS BOOK:The story was long, but actually wasn't full of filler and I never once got bored.
If TID only got better as it went, I'm super excited to see what the next book does.And I absolutely loved all of the adorable siblings Julian was raising (and that whole side of his character’s struggles), but can we take a moment to appreciate Ty?!
DNF-ed at page. 337.(Link: https://giphy.com/gifs/the-gazette-ur...)Rating: 1.5 stars.(Link: https://giphy.com/gifs/southparkgifs-...)I admit this, I got fed up by Clare's constant Edgar Allan Poe references and when I skimmed to the ending part and saw (view spoiler)[Annabel Lee from Allan Poe's poem (hide spoiler)] being a mother fucking actual character in this book, I lost it and quit.I am so pissed that I feel the need to write a 'poem' about this whole freaking Poe business:  Cassandra Cla
Okay, I know child-caring in such a young age is hard, still I feel nothing when I read about the hardship he faces.I sense that with Julian and one of his younger brothers, Clare did try to address serious topics such as Special Education Needs and the problem of Shadowhunters not valuing their children's other talents (e.g. painting) outside of their fighting skills, but it just isn't enough to keep me interested; not even for 5 minutes.As to the other Blackthorn siblings, they are so freaking boring!
hoooooo boy. i don't really know where to start with this review, since i have so many mixed feelings regarding this book. but!!! not all of them are negative and i promise i have a lot of good things to say about the blackthorns so stay tuned everyone some positive and negative aspects: let's get this out of the way. i went into this book expecting.... absolutely nothing. i'm not the biggest cassandra clare stan, and i could never see myself even remotely enjoying one of her books (yet, here we
it would've been a way less enjoyable read for me if i hadn't learned to love the blackthorn family with my entire sinner heart.
i just wanna talk.i remember being so bored throughout the entire book because everything was so drawn-out and slow; i felt actually exhausted at the thought of having to get through 600+ pages of it.ok, i feel like that was enough ranting for now.
no time for gushing about all these characters.but i love dru and livvy and tavvy too, and i genuinely feel like they each added so much to this book.
Y ahora, en tan solo un libro, ha conseguido que prácticamente conozcamos a Cristina, Julian y Emma del mismo modo.Digo que ha aprendido porque no ha decidido comenzar esta saga de una manera sencilla.
Ser el parabatai de Emma le hace sin duda uno de los personajes más interesantes.Emma: La verdadera protagonista de esta historia, pues digamos que la trama comienza por algo relacionado con ella.
Las tramas son más simples, por decirlo de algún modo, pero presentan conflictos morales complicados y sobre todo, es un compendio de subtramas que hacen que Lady Midnight sea una novela muy profunda.
Someone get me Lady Midnight for Christmas pretty please.
2018 - I still hate the ending so much.2016 - Around The Year in 52 Books Challenge Notes:52. A book that was published in 2016
Let me guess: this "Julian" fellow is going to be snarky and sarcastic just like every other love interest CC has written about.
Sure, I LOVE when the main guy in a story is sarcastic and witty, but seriously...try something new.
And just by experience, I can already predict things that are going to happen: 1) There is going to be another love triangle in which I can predict the ending FROM the first sentence.
2) CC is going to over-use certain adjectives explaining Julian's eyes/hair/body, etc.
But then there's going to be three MORE books after it.
My reaction to Cassandra Clare's new series...Oh yes, I was a pretty happy girl.
There is a bunch of things about this book that I found rather bothersome, but, all in all, I enjoyed it sounds like a fair and encompassing enough way to put it.•The plot is good, surely more than I expected and more than what I remembered Clare was capable of.
Julian Blackthorn is probably my favorite character among all of those Clare ever created: he has this peculiar blend of tenderness and harshness inside of him (he does a pretty cruel thing at the end of the book that totally won me over, and the way he tends to and cares for his siblings is incredibly heart-warming), and controversial characters always find their way to my heart.
