https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/486666.Bombs_Away
Hemingway said he would willingly cut three fingers off his throwing hand rather than write a book like this one. I think he was being generous.
Bombs Away: The Story of a Bomber Team by John Steinbeck.
I found this at the Johnson City Public Library book sale.) Probably because you never thought Steinbeck would write such a bias pro-military book.
Steinbeck wrote this for the military to help bolster support for the Air Force in 1942.
Steinbeck had two goals in mind: to show the public that our air crews were the best of the best and the country will win the war because of your support!
Steinbeck doesn’t support the war.
It’s written I think more for the style of the Army Air Force public relations campaigns than for a great novel.
The positive view of air power and the prowess of the heavy bomber was disputed over Schweinfurt barely a year after the book was written and in modern times the overt propaganda style is not in good taste.
However, this book is interesting because of the vision Steinbeck has of the American society in the 40s.
Gone are the time of the depression and young American men are given the chance to rise to the occasion (women are barely mentioned).
On the surface this book makes life in the air force sound like a kind of scout camp; but beneath is a real sympathy for the fighting men and their individuality and skill.
Steinbeck wrote the book in 1942 on behalf of what were then called the U.S. Army Air Forces; its intent was not only to tell the story of the young men who flew planes like the B-17 Flying Fortresses and B-24 Liberators, but to encourage qualified candidates to join the Air Force and share in its high-risk work.As U.S. Air Force Academy professor James Meredith points out in a perceptive foreword to the Penguin Books edition of this book, Bombs Away can be regarded as propaganda, but propaganda with a "politically benign purpose" (xiii).
I didn't really expect to like Bombs Away--it's a propaganda novel, and I'm not American, I'm not in the middle of a war, and I know that the details described are so outdated that they must have very little modern relevance.
I haven't looked into his life much yet (I have a biography that I'm saving for a rainy day), but I know he was essentially a pacifist and so writing these propaganda novels must have produced a lot of ambivalence in him.
I wish he had also written some more balanced depictions of World War II after it was over.
This is Steinbecks attempt at helping the allied during the war and he might have chosen the worst possible way of doing it by writing propaganda to recruit people to the American bomber force.
The heavy bomber fleet made way more damage and killed way more innocent people than the nukes did and as far as I know the terror bombings didn't shorten the war by a single day.Secondly, that being on a heavy bomber is as safe as Russian roulette is barely mentioned.
Their only purpose was to spew out enough lead that fighters attacked from non-optimal distances and angles, increasing the chances a little bit.Then it is the "real world" people who are so happy and feeling so home in the bomber crews.
What this book did do is really clarify what it is that a lot (sorry) Americans do which just gets under the skin of other nations.
I'm Canadian and while I love Canada and would like to say it's the best country in the world, I think most Canadians try to recognize that although we love our country fiercely, so do other nationalities.
it is this ability of Americans, exemplified in their team sports of being both individuals and units in a group at the same time, which makes them both the finest team players and finest flyers in the world." Right.
This was written during World War II to teach Americans about the training and responsibilities of bomber crews.
He also goes out of his way to tell the reader again and again that everyone on the crew is of equal importance and that the pilot isn't above any of the rest.
In each chapter, a fictional (I assume) character is introduced to show what background is helpful and walk the reader through the training.
These characters combine to form a bomber team, and the reader gets to experience their final training missions through their stories.
It’s missing his normally descriptive writing and is instead written in a very basic style that feels aimed at grade schoolers.
His best novels and nonfiction work are full of great characters, but the people here are totally generic and aren’t explored at all (I'm assuming they're creations and not anyone he actually met).
I guess that’s the point since it’s designed to make the average American male feel like he could be these people.
There’s also a lot of really weird characterizations of the types of people who would fit each role and what they would be like after the war, all of which reality has shown to be false.
United States Goes to WarSomething different from John Steinbeck.
Written to assure parents and populace that their men were getting the best training possible before entering the war theater.
I would have wanted to read this if my son was heading into action in WW2 I think Penguin should consider a new introduction.
The author of the current one makes way too much of a fuss over this being propaganda and it's almost if he wants the allies to apologize for beating the Axis forces I found this to be interesting and informative on what was required t ok create a bomb crew.
It is a strange, almost mystical thing that happens to flying men. It is as though the experience had cut them off so that they can only communicate with their own kind, can only be understood by other flying men. When they meet they go away together and perhaps they don't talk about flying, although that isn't likely. But at least they know and understand each other. They have been through something that has the impact of religion, and while most of them are never able to say it, never want to say it, they all understand it.
This book was fascinating and engaging,but not for the reason intended.
This was written as a recruitment tool in 1942 to get the kids in the bombers instead of back on the farm.
The writing is clunky and everything is peachy and perfect, but it was so damned funny.
Thisis the perfect thing to read while reading Catch 22.
Everything Steinbeck says here is shown to be false in Heller.
I loved when Steinbeck wrote that the officers are all intelligent and thoughtful.
It is the ideal that the Catch 22 Mocks and shows to be such baloney.
Thank god this book was short.
Προπαγάνδα του Β'ΠΠ για εσωτερική αμερικανική κατανάλωση τύπου "στείλτε τα παιδιά σας στον πόλεμο θα είναι τέλεια!". Μέτριο.
Uninspired propaganda.
A good read learned a lot about the training and selection of the men who flew the bombers in WW II
I found this book by chance at a local bookstore skimming the stacks. In Dubious Battle was my introduction to Steinbeck forty-five years ago. I liked it. Over the years others followed—The Moon is Down, East of Eden, and the timeless Grapes of Wrath. I read Ayn Rand too. Steinbeck was an antidote to Rand. Bombs Away is unique—a historical treasure, freezing for all time a prominent American writer’s perspective on the cutting edge World War II bomber war, and the training for the American warr
Commissioned by President Roosevelt and General Hap Arnold to write the book, Steinbeck’s ‘mission’ was to explain to the parents of those in bombers the training regimen their precious sons had completed or were completing; and to the population at large about this then-new technology for bringing death, destruction, and defeat to the enemy.
The bookends of these chapters are first, an introduction to the B-17 and B-24, and lastly an explanation of the Air Force’s functional and tactical organization for taking the bomber war to the enemy.
Only the best men America has to offer make it into the Air Force’s bomber training pipeline.
Hatred does not operate a bombsight." p.66One theme jumped out at me right away:ALWAYS PREPARED, or SERGEANT YORK and LUKE SKYWALKER GO TO WARIn the film "Sergeant York," Gary Cooper plays an Appalachian ruffian who excels at turkey shooting.
Americans do not have to change themselves into something different in order to win at war.
Whatever we need is already within us.Steinbeck develops this theme at length in "Bombs Away." He describes how all the technological skills required to win the war are already American specialties, how hunting game and souping-up hot rods have made American boys ready for industrialized warfare.
Meredith contrasts Steinbeck's glorification of American teamwork and the collective man (a familiar trope in Steinbeck) to Hemingway's work which "emphasized indiviudalist heroism and the personal lienation and despiar from mechanized modern warfare and the new technological instruments of terror" (xii).If you are a fan of Steinbeck you'll certain recognize the similarities Meredith identifies between the styles and interest in collectivity expressed in  The Grapes of Wrath  and  Cannery Row  with Steinbeck's take on military propaganda.
[the air force:] discovered that his big, unharried hand and his slow speech were no by no means indications of a slow mind" and he was hurried off for training as a pilot.
My father served in WWII as an aerial tail gunner in a bombardier group and it was extremely fascinating to get a glimpse into what he went through in terms of selection and training.
Steinbeck actually spent time going through the entire process of selection and observed the specific training for each of the members of the newly formed Army Air Force Bombardier Group.
His hope was that the expose would help family members better understand what their son would be going through, beginning with the psychological and personality assessments that helped determine if the candidate was a good fit for a bombardier group.
Steinbeck then observed the training each member would receive once they were selected.
This man had written about Okies suffering through the Great Depression and Dust Bowl, a group of men on the California coast, and would later go on to write the allegorical story of Cain and Abel.
Although some may think it dry, the reverence that Steinbeck communicates through this piece of work is genuine.
With the use of airplanes in warfare expanding not only did a volume like this share to the boys it was trying to recruit the prestige of the Air Force, but showed the American public just exactly what the boys they were sending to war were training for.
Steinbeck, John. BOMBS AWAY: THE STORY OF A BOMBER TEAM. (1942). ***. A few months after America entered WW II, the United States Army Air Force asked Steinbeck to aid the war effort by writing a report to help recruit airmen. Published in 1942, “Bombs Away” the result of this endeavor, is much more than typical army recruiting propaganda. Instead, Steinbeck produced a chronicle documenting the real life of a bomber crew based on a conglomerate of all the men he talked to during his research. Th
A few months after America entered WW II, the United States Army Air Force asked Steinbeck to aid the war effort by writing a report to help recruit airmen.
The bomber crew was, typically, a six-member team.
Steinbeck managed to make the jobs sound exciting without down-playing the ultimate dangers of the team in actual combat.
This is not great literature, but he manages to do the job he was assigned in such a way that the product had a broad appeal and, hopefully, was of help in the Army’s recruiting efforts.
The common review of this book is that it is plain propaganda for the U.S. department of war and for recruiting.
Claiming the need for secrecy, it's stated somewhere in the book that the men he profiles are amalgamations of people he met.
I don't know if he actually met the men in the Army Air Corps training or not, but there is something weak about the writing that makes me think he may not have.
I was disappointed in the writing quality of the book.
Such poor writing seems hardly likely to convince anyone to sign up at the local recruitment office.
Seeing how Steinbeck pandered to the ideas of American exceptionalism at the time of war is why you would read this book.
The book should probably be read in conjunction with Slaughterhouse-Five and Islands in the Stream (Hemingway's account of antisubmarine activity in the Caribbean during WWII) for a more realistic look at the war's impact.
Steinbeck does his humanist best to condemn the bombing of civilians and put a happy face on just bombing munition plants and supply lines, along with one account of a submarine bombing in the Gulf of Mexico, but this is a pro-Allies, pro-America, anti-Axis propaganda piece.
It is a very detailed account of the training process for all the members of a bomber team, including pilot, crew chief, gunners, bombardier, and navigator.
This information is of course dated to the early 1940's, so those looking for a modern account should look elsewhere.
In essence this book is a snapshot of a moment in time.
A moment which turned out to be quite pivotal in the history of the world.
Long range bombers won the war for the United States, and therefore changed the course of history.
What is key and interesting in this book?It is John Steinbeck's, one of America's Nobel Laureates for Literature, view of what made America great from a people perspective.
We should all take note, given our current times, of the kind of leadership and individual responsibility prevailed in the pre-World War II years.John Steinbeck wrote this work in 1942 with America embroiled in World War II.
Either way, a superb expose' about individual competence and working as a team to collectively tackle large, complex tasks.


Propaganda SteinbeckIntendiamoci, il libro è propagandistico, ma non nel senso deteriore del termine: vuole illustrare compiti ed addestramento dell'equipaggio ( o meglio, della "squadra" ) di un bombardiere, quando l'America era appena entrata in guerra e l'aviazione era ancora in sviluppo. Insiste molto sulla "naturale" capacità degli americani di fare gioco di squadra, tema presente anche in altre opere dell'Autore.Certo, non rappresenta il vertice della sua produzione, ma risulta comunque una lettura interessante e scorrevole - a patto di tenere bene a mente il periodo e il motivo per cui l'opera è stata scritta.

This is a non-fiction Steinbeck book, but one in which he is not a character.
Originally written as a propaganda piece for the Air Force during WW II, it is an interesting glimpse at the positions that make up a bomber crew.
While Steinbeck's voice is there, I wonder if an editor really looked over his words.
He is very repetitive at times (ex.
- The gunner needs to be a smaller guy.
He goes on and on about the little guy having a complex and how he can be respected as a gunner.
I get it - he is small, a shortstop, etc.)
