https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38198027-whisper-me-this
Like I said before the book held my interest but I can't say it was the most satisfying read.
I hate to say that because the author did attempt to tackle a serious subject but I think the execution was slightly off.
The first half of the book worked better than the second half because you are curious about what secrets Maisey's mother is hiding.
I thought the introduction of Tony and his family didn't feel natural although at least there was an interesting backstory there.
I think the best way to describe this book is it feels like a Lifetime Channel movie.
⭐⭐⭐💫 / 5 rounded up. When I first started Whisper Me This by Kerry Anne King I was speeding through it and expected to really like it, unfortunately it ended up falling a little short of the mark for me. In Whisper Me This Maisey has never quite lived up to her mother's expectations. She has held a series of dead-end jobs, and has never gotten married - two things that her mom desperately wanted for her to change. When Maisey finds out her mom is in a coma and her dad might be charged with abuse
She has held a series of dead-end jobs, and has never gotten married - two things that her mom desperately wanted for her to change.
Slowly the story unravels, both the story of Maisey's mom and Tony's story, and it was definitely a slow burner of a story overall.
I have to admit it was a pretty tough book to read even though the author tries to infuse hope into it.
The mysteries that unravel just produce even more pain, and although I felt slightly better at the ending, the overall feel of this novel was pretty melancholy to me.
For once, I am speechlessA tale of how women change the courses of their lives in response to the men in their lives. A story of lies, redemption and love.
Promising start.Amazon First read, July novel. Story of hope's and dreams of teenager, growing up in dysfunctional family. Abused since birth. Good plot, but I missed or author missed to convey me the point she is making. Liked author's writing style.
Lost respect for your storytelling there.4) Since the new-found family member is a bit of a star (ie, has money to get the hell out of Dodge), DO IT.
This particular character is no shrinking violet, is surrounded by big burly guys in her payroll....just head for Nashvile, do not pass go, do not play in any more Thai restaurants.
Good lord.The book got two stars because I got hooked it a particular storyline and had to figure it out, which I did, as it was a bit trite.
Whisper Me This was a solid 4 stars for me. An interesting book that centers around a woman named Maisey-who heads to her childhood home after discovering her mom is in the hospital and her dad is in a serious confused mental state. Maisey has much to contend with, including uncovering a family secret that will change her life forever. The big secret wasn’t all that shocking and the book was somewhat slower paced than I liked, but I would still highly recommend it to readers that like fictional slice of life type of books.
Whisper Me This is a page turner filled with family secrets! Maisey is a single mother trying to raise her daughter. Maisey's mother is found sick and neglected and her father is a suspect. While dealing with the aftermath, she finds a long buried secret from her mother's past. Kerry Anne King is a new author for me and I will be looking at her other books!
4.5 stars
Reading this is a kin to watching a sappy Life-Time or Hallmark channel movie.
I couldn't connect with any of the characters and eventually even grew to dislike them!
Please, who would let the nosy neighbor make your mom's funeral arrangements?
Who would go to a concert the evening prior, and then show up late to your own mom's funeral?
The relationship between Maisey and daughter Elle was so not right.
The mother daughter roles are reversed here.
Overall I found it hard to swallow, I just couldn't buy into the characters.
The families on which the story centers have secrets they’ve kept through the years out of concern for the damage that might be done if they were exposed.
But in the end as the families’ lives become intertwined and their secrets come inevitably to light, what is revealed to be the most riveting heart of this book are the gut wrenching choices that were made in terrifying circumstances.
There’s no guaranty the end will tie up in a neat bow, but the courage of the human spirit, its ability to heal, is persistent and luminous throughout the pages of this very real and emotive story.
“Whisper Me This” by Kerry Anne King, is a thought-provoking, intriguing, intense and emotional read.
Kudos to Kerry Anne King for discussing issues of physical and emotional abuse and how it affects others.In this novel, the author not only describes a woman’s point of view, but shows the men’s reaction as well.
The author writes about the importance of family, mother-daughter relationships, emotional support, honesty, love and hope.
Someone is responsible for older fractures and broken bones that Maisey’s Mom has.When Maisey was a child, she would have an imaginary friend named Marley.
Rich in emotions and characters, WHISPER ME THIS is a stunning tale of dark secrets, broken memories, and ultimately hope and resilience. The novel quickly pulls the reader onto a roller-coaster ride through grief, mystery, and cryptic journal entries. At the heart of the story is a twelve-year-old with more sense than most adults, and her mother, Maisey, who discovers the power of her voice and the courage to fight for her destiny. I can't recommend this book enough. A perfect book club pick!
Maisey is brought suddenly back home with her 13 year old daughter Elle to deal with her dying mother and father who appears to be in an unbalanced state of mind.
This story is written with such compassion, and relatable characters your heart just aches for, and others so horrible you want to do then in.
There are journal pages that give clues to the old mysteries, and add heart pounding moments to the story as it enfolds with moments of indecision, and suspicion.
A book I devoured from the first pages, I keep seeing these characters in my mind, you don't want to miss reading this one!
My favorite books are those that make me think, and feel; books that tackle a difficult subject...abusive relationships in this book...without pulling punches, but leaving me hopeful in the end. Kerry Anne King has written this spectacular story, one which left me in tears, feeling all of the emotions...fear, anger, love, pain, desperation, strength, grief, courage. I felt like I was right in the room with the characters; flesh and blood characters who were complicated and complex; I was suffering along with them and cheering their victories. This book is a triumph; thought-provoking, heart-wrenching, and incredibly moving.
3.5 stars First I'd like to say that I love the cover of this book and that Kerry Ann King, like me, is from Canada and I love supporting Canadian authors as much as possible.More than just a family drama, this novel is packed with secrets, betrayals and deception. This book is a well written enthralling story, with excellent character development, which takes the reader through the emotional effects of domestic violence. And while I liked the character of Tony and believe that his story was an
First I'd like to say that I love the cover of this book and that Kerry Ann King, like me, is from Canada and I love supporting Canadian authors as much as possible.More than just a family drama, this novel is packed with secrets, betrayals and deception.
This book is a well written enthralling story, with excellent character development, which takes the reader through the emotional effects of domestic violence.
All in all Kerry Anne King balanced the heartache and tragedy with joy and unconditional love that finally brings this family together.
Amazon First selection.
I thoroughly enjoyed this :) Recommend!!!
2.5 STARSI chose WHISPER TO ME for my July free Amazon Prime book and probably wouldn’t have read it otherwise.
I tried not to let that affect my review.At its heart, WHISPER TO ME is about domestic violence, how it affects the victims and children, as well as the choices those children make when they become adults.
Maisey’s mother may not have technically been abusive, but she suffered the trauma of an emotionally abused child and carries that with her into adulthood.
Most of the characters are wounded in some way by abuse or neglect.
WHISPER TO ME held my interest, but wasn’t particularly memorable.
Kind of mixed feeling while reading this book. I have read faster than I thought despite the slow-paced storyline.It's about domestic violence & family problems. More on fiction, not mystery. “Whisper me truth, whisper me lies. All the things you did wrong, you did exactly right.”3.5 ⭐️
This book was boring and predictable. I'm not sure who decided it would be considered a 'thriller" but it was not that.
Full of richly woven characters, this book is an emotional read.
This is a story of domestic violence and how it affects us throughout our lives.
It is a story of love and loss, of strength and resilience.
This book flows effortlessly from the very beginning to the triumphant end.
It is rich in emotions and the dialogue is true to life.
The characters are well developed and believable.
This is a must read for all.
It made me laugh and it made me cry.
I loved this book.
The author truly knows how to weave a tale that draws you in.

What it is is a domestic drama about family secrets and a cycle of abuse.On the good side, the descriptions of trauma and its aftermath are good.
She's abusive too, but that's glossed over and never addressed in the book, and this really bothered me.To me, Maisey was also a terrible character.
Maisey seemed to be trapped in a stunted adolescence, and I didn't think she showed any real growth by the end of the book.In addition, I didn't find the big family secret to be all that well done or all that intriguing, and the reconciliation was too neat, like an after school special.
Excellent book!
Very goodThis has a lot of turns and twists. Don't think I ever figured out any of. When I thought I had Tony figured our, plot twist, again out of left field. Really inventive plot. The family dynamic was sick! A lot if drinking along with abuse A must read
WARNING: This book contains extreme triggers for people who have suffered abuse.
If you have a history of abuse, proceed with caution.I felt it was imperative to post the above warning because I found it exceedingly difficult to finish this book.
I felt I had to give the author her due, even though I did not find reading the book an enjoyable experience.About that happily-ever-after ending - I completely disagree with the author about the romantic partner she provides for the main character, Maisey.
In my opinion, Tony is at a high risk for becoming the thing he most fears, simply because he has not dealt with his past.
Loved the book.
Loved the story, writing style and characters.
Thank goodness Maisey grew up with Howard as a dad, because her mom was awful.
I LOVED Howard, especially how he stood up to Greg and Boots.
Maisey returns home after getting a phone call that her mom is in a coma and her dad may be facing charges of for abuse and neglect.
Her mom, Leah, would go crazy when Maisey mentioned an imaginary friend named Marley.
Maisey discovers her mom was hiding many secrets and the mystery of Marley might finally be solved.
Loved the cover of the book.
3.5 stars.This story revolves around Maisey, an almost 40-year-old single mother, her 12-year-old daughter, Elle, Elle's father, Rick, Maisey's parents, and Maisey's romantic interest, Tony.
Maisey's life is interrupted when she learns her mother is in a coma and her father has been accused of neglect and abuse.
She flies home with Elle to support her father and be by her mother's side.
While home, she discovers a shattering secret her mother has kept hidden from her.
However, I felt the story fell apart at the end.
Thank you Lake Union Publishing and Netgalley for letting me read Whipser Me This for my honest review. The this book is not a book full of mystery and secrets like promised. It is a book about domestic abuse. It leads you to believe in the beginning that there is mystery but the answers soon come to light and to me the whole premise fell flat.
Maisey had a difficult childhood with her mother Leah always pushing her for more and making her feel that she was never good enough so when her own daughter Elle comes along she is determined to make a different life for her although she refuses to marry Greg the father.
So when Leah has a fall and goes into a coma and her father is under suspicion of neglect and abuse she is distraught and rushes home.
