https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13541056-queen-of-air-and-darkness
My review is up!: https://youtu.be/IEReoynz6eo
"At the edge of everything, love and faith have always brought me back, and back to you."1) Lady midnight ★★★★★2) Lord of shadows ★★★★★The whole Shadowhunters saga has my heart and that's never going to change, I'm never going to be able to thank Cassandra Clare enough for creating a world that literally changed my life.
What do you mean this trilogy is over? It’s 2 am and I just finished this. Now I need to cry myself to sleep because what do you mean this trilogy is over??Full RTC.Buddy read with my girls: Amy, May, & Maram. ♥  Update Nov/4/2018:  holy shit there’s one more month left you guys holyshitholyshitholyshit Update 12/11/2017:  COOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOVER REVEAL GUYS GOD I AM SO DAMN EXCITED. BUT DECEMBER 2018?! THIS IS WAY TOO LONG HELP. Update 8/9/2017:  GUYS!!! Release date has been pushed forwa
What do you mean this trilogy is over?
It’s 2 am and I just finished this.
Now I need to cry myself to sleep because what do you mean this trilogy is over??Full RTC.Buddy read with my girls: Amy, May, & Maram.
Update Nov/4/2018:
holy shit there’s one more month left you guys holyshitholyshitholyshit
COOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOVER REVEAL GUYS GOD I AM SO DAMN EXCITED.
Update 8/9/2017:
Update 8/9/2017:
GUYS!!!
That moment where I have to wait TWO DAMN YEARS for this.
After the ending of Lord of Shadows, I won't even make it through today, let alone two more years.
1.) City of Bones ★★★2.) City of Ashes ★★3.) City of Glass ★★★1.) Clockwork Angel ★★★4.) City of Fallen Angels ★2.) Clockwork Prince ★★★★5.) City of Lost Souls ★★★★3.) Clockwork Princess ★★★★★6.) City of Heavenly Fire ★★★★★*.) The Bane Chronicles ★★★*.) Tales from the Shadowhunter Academy ★★★1.) Lady Midnight ★★★★★2.) Lord of Shadows ★★★★*.) Ghosts of the Shadow Market 8/10  “There was blood on the Council dais, blood on the steps, blood on the walls and the floor and the shattered remnants of t
Not only was reading all of these books and stories, and falling in love with so many of these characters and worlds, a highlight in my reading year, it was just a highlight in my 2018.
And I can’t wait to actually see them fall in love during TRSoM, but I know it is going to be my favorite thing in this entire series!
But I truly loved how this book officially proved that Kit is going to have an actual claim to rule all of Faerie, and I’m here for it.
Real talk, Jace had me actually laughing out loud during this entire book and I loved and hated every single second of it.
Sadnesssssss, happiness, anger - ALL OF THEM!
I'm happy with this ending.
I said I wasn't going to read any more books she writes in this series because I'm done.
But after all of that, I might read the other books coming out to see what else is going to happen.
Always makes me nervous with my favorite authors out there because I'm afraid they are going to kill too many of my loves.
There are actually books I haven't continued because I know a love is going to die.
Guess it's time to buckle up buttercup and read ALL THE BOOKS!
this truly WAS the infinity war of the shadowhunter chronicles, it was so wild to see so many characters from across this universe play a role here and I LOVED IT(but at the same time ...
like it's fun to see them cameo but please, no more plot lines About Them I'm bored of them)okay - although I felt so many intense emotions and loved so much in this book ...
LIKE DON'T GET ME WRONG I LOVED SO MUCH OF IT AND LIKE ALWAYS THIS FUCKING DESTROYED ME.
But at the same time I also felt kinda .....
me when Zara Dearborn finally dies a very painful death

Your age does not define how well or not you will/would like a book.Just because this is labeled as a YA book and you will be twenty something when it comes out doesn't mean that you can't enjoy it.If you are a big fan of Clare's series and end up reading it how ever old you may be, that's awesome.
I just don't see why people need to be saying that "this is the last Clare/Shadowhunter book I'll be reading" because it hasn't even come out yet, nor have any books of this series for a matter of fact.
15 Shadowhunter Chronicles books later...and I'm finally going to a Cassandra Clare book signing, where I'll meet one of my favourite authors in person! December 6th CANNOT come soon enough!!! :DAlso, I am not emotionally prepared for this trilogy to come to a close...*cue the tears*
You can jump into this series and scream – obviously don’t just jump into Queen of Air and Darkness without having read the previous books.Throughout this book we get to follow Julian and Emma’s struggle to tamper down their feelings, Ty dealing with his grief for Livvy in the wrong way, Kit being a Herondale, Drusilla coming in to herself, Diana and Gwyn’s love story continue, Cristina, Kieran and Mark drama, Cohort business (seriously this was some Donald Trump shit), some Faerie Drama and finally find out who the mysterious Ash is (we all knew).
THAT ENDING HOLY SHIT. Review to come.________ Pre-read Rambles I AM SO EXCITED FOR THIS–BUT OH SO TERRIFIED PREPARE YOURSELVES! HERE WE GO!!9 June, 2018I have been completely avoiding any snippets or any information about this book for like a year. I have not even read the blurb. I do this for any book I'm really anticipating because people give away TOO MUCH DAMN INFO, like I wanna experience it for myself WHEN I READ THE BOOK..... Anyway the one tag line that I can't help seeing everywhere is
Pre-read Rambles
I AM SO EXCITED FOR THIS–BUT OH SO TERRIFIED PREPARE YOURSELVES!
I have not even read the blurb.
I do this for any book I'm really anticipating because people give away TOO MUCH DAMN INFO, like I wanna experience it for myself WHEN I READ THE BOOK.....
.And that scares the crap outta me because I know that Cassie Clare has the capacity to shred my world apart.
[*cough cough* clockwork princess anyone?] I don't know how I will survive.
I think I need to re-read Lady Midnight and Lord of Shadows in preparation for this.
2018 SIGN ME UP
so i'm going to demand compensation for that ending bc what the hell cassie, what the hellin all honestly, there were mass portions of this book that dragged so badly for me but lol @ me bc the ending made up for it and i am complete 🗑 for the blackthorns. literally give me a book about them eating pancakes and going to the park to watch birds and i'll always 5 starthe 2 greatest moments from this 900 paged book:1. tavvy asking to be carried and taken home in the middle of a war2. "my emma"goodb
so i'm going to demand compensation for that ending bc what the hell cassie, what the hellin all honestly, there were mass portions of this book that dragged so badly for me but lol @ me bc the ending made up for it and i am complete 🗑️ for the blackthorns.
literally give me a book about them eating pancakes and going to the park to watch birds and i'll always 5 starthe 2 greatest moments from this 900 paged book:1.
"my emma"goodbye y'all--------------------------------this is IT Y'ALLTHIS IS THE END OF IT ALLTHIS IS GOING TO BE THE END OF MEbuddy read with the squaf, jia, marami, & amy
OMG!!!!WE HAVE A COVER AND IT'S THE MOST BEAUTIFUL THING!!!! <333I want to read this NOW!!!Gosh how am I going to survive until December 2018???!!!!
And sometimes all you need in your life is Cassie's book-covers. Just saying!
This is real. the cover omg !One year is torture.Two years are pain.
don't know why there are so many complaints about age! I will be 29 when this books comes out. but there is nothing in this world that'll stop me from reading this book, or any other book I'm interested in, just because I'm "overage"!
Things I liked:  ◘ Cassandra Clare’s writing continues to improve immensely and was beautiful.◘ Lord Byron and Edgar Allan Poe have been two of my favourite poets since high school, and this book was partially inspired by poems from BOTH of them.◘ It had an abundance of hard-hitting, emotional moments. But they were also balanced out by the funny, light-hearted, happy, tender moments. ◘ EMMA AND THE BLACKTHORNS. They were the highlight as usual. Their immense love for each other hurts me.◘ Litt
◘ At one point it felt like things were just on repeat, but then something happens that FLIPS EVERYTHING ON ITS HEAD AND I LOVED IT.◘ That damn strip of red cloth hurt me.◘ The message that the Cold Peace was the opposite of peaceful and instead brought war.
“What hurts more,” Magnus asked, “the love or the hate?”“I don’t know,” Julian said.” THAT SCENE.◘ All of the Blackthorns are growing up, dispersing in their own directions and moving on with their lives, and I feel like that aspect was captured really well.
WTH.The third book will be here soon and I haven’t even read the first.I’M SO FREAKING BEHIND ON EVERYTHING XD
me being excited about a shadowhunter release is very off-brand for me but it's happeningi just want to state very loudly that if anything happens to anybody in this book cassie and i are going to have (one-sided) beef and it's not going to be pretty!!!!! (ง'-')ง fictional character death is detrimental to my health and i can't handle another lord of shadows type shit. have some decency✦ buddy read with most of goodreads but especially the squad: maymay, gianna, marami
me being excited about a shadowhunter release is very off-brand for me but it's happeningi just want to state very loudly that if anything happens to anybody in this book cassie and i are going to have (one-sided) beef and it's not going to be pretty!!!!! (ง'̀-'́)ง fictional character death is detrimental to my health and i can't handle another lord of shadows type shit. have some decency✦ buddy read with most of goodreads but especially the squad: maymay, gianna, marami
I HAVE NEVER SEEN A PRETTIER CLARE COVER NOR ONE SO COLORFUL OMGSH I AM DROOLING EVERYWHERE HOLY MOLY COWLY I AM COMPLETELY DEAD AND RISEN AGAIN BECAUSE OF THAT COVER.
So I have thoughts.
I have a lot of thoughts.
First off this trilogy is over which is extremely sad considering it was one of my favorites of all time😭.
But with the way this book ended we know for sure that the next series is going to be as action packed as this one.
This book was extremely beautiful and the representation that was shown was so very well done and I was so so happy to read this trilogy.
I can't wait for Cassie's next book.
update 11/12/17  I want to be angry that the aesthetic for the series covers doesn't match but im not???? if I say I don't love this cover I am lying update 9/8/17    2018 IT SAYS 2018   IVE NEVER BEEN HAPPIER AT A PUBLICATION DATE CHANGE.YESSSSSSS--------You have got to be kidding me. WHAT HAVE I DONE TO DESERVE THIS PAIN. *sigh* about 600,  600  six fucking hundred days of painP.S IF ANYTHING HAPPENS TO CLACE IN THIS BOOK. ANYTHING TO THREATEN MY SHIP. I WILL BURN THIS BOOK.
Wow. Can't believe we have to wait three years for the wicked powers especially after that ending. I love pain.Sep 10, 2018Why do I feel like this book is going to be the infinity war of tsc?
You see this cover? This is the cover that says "bitch I’m slaying..."
Rating may change, I need to think on this...Critical rating = 3.5 starsEmotional rating = 5 starsFirstly, Horace and Zara(view spoiler)[The warding off of Idris and the potential break between the Shadowhunter world slays me.
(hide spoiler)]Emma and Julian (view spoiler)[are still my OTP and I love that they got their happily ever after, I didn't like how clean and safe the outcome was.
(hide spoiler)]The doppelganger and the ending (view spoiler)[I don't think Clary is out of the woods yet, and I think her eventual death may still be on the horizon.
People are literally reading this book while I rot and study for exams how is this fair?? ××××××××××××××When the release date is moved closer instead of further away:
Thank you for everything Cassandra Clare.Thank you Emma.Thank you my Jules.11/15/17Still mad about the fact that neither Cristina or Diana are on this cover. *sigh*
I SHOULDN’T HAVE READ THE EPILOGUE CASSIE WHY WOULD YOU DO THAT TO ME
