https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7784.The_Lorax
Now who would have thought that Seuss back in the 60’s would have already been concerned about the destruction of the environment – so much so that he wrote this incredible and addictive story (asked for by my son two to three times a week).
My kid is always asking me about the Once-ler “Why can’t we see his body?
Who else would have thought of such a perfect word like thneeds.
It is a story that I can STRONGLY recommend to anyone reading this blog and especially to the kids of my readers.
Funny thing is that this is only a comment on a kiddies' book - yet it has engendered so much nastiness from several people all of whom appear to be alteregos of Michael.
He has made it his business to take people (not me alone) to task for not enjoying this book even to the extent of making personal remarks.
This isn't for me.May 2010I was just looking through my reviews and noticed that Corky and two other characters (the same person?) have deleted their reviews and their IDs. Interesting.....
Oh Lorax, what did we make of your world.Your beasts that were,The trees that were dear.The Lorax project is a commendable effort on behalf of Dr. Seuss Enterprise and Random House.Apprises the children of the fact that they just might be the last generation seeing a lot of things.
You can have your  Silent Spring and Inconvenient Truth. The Lorax and his lesson of unless is, to me, the most moving piece of environmental literature ever. It shows that a) good children's literature doesn't have to be simplistic or happy to be effective and b) that you certainly need not be a member of a political group to appreciate the message that our drive to industrialize must not happen at the expense of our planet.
Another of the very best books by Dr. Seuss!  IT'S NOT TOO LATE!!!  UNLESS someone like you.  cares a whole awful lot,  nothing is going to get better.  It’s not. This is one other of the best ever tales by Dr. Seuss. Like, The Sneetches was crafted in the 60s, it’s not wonder that The Lorax was conceived in 1971, since it was the decade where ecology finally became a relevant issue in the conscience of people.A powerful story showing in a very open way, how grimm will be our future (and sadly,
Like, The Sneetches was crafted in the 60s, it’s not wonder that The Lorax was conceived in 1971, since it was the decade where ecology finally became a relevant issue in the conscience of people.A powerful story showing in a very open way, how grimm will be our future (and sadly, forty-five years later, we are still in the same trouble) if we let that our woods would be lost without control at the expense of making stuff that we really don’t need or that we’d be able to supply in other ways.But it’s not too late yet!!!If each of us, make our contribution in one way or another, not matter how small, we still being able to help our planet’s nature, and then……the Lorax will return!
I saw the movie adaptation of this classic children's story on 2012. What I liked about the movie version is that there's a closure to the story while the readers were leave to their own imagination on what happened. Both the book and movie adaptation are highly recommended because it reminds us to care on our environment.
Personally, I think that this book was just trying to discuss about the issues of environmentalism and that cutting down too many trees can cause pollution on the earth.“The Lorax” is one of the greatest books about the issues of environmentalism that kids will understand perfectly and will definitely be evolved into one of the greatest cult classics to ever come to the world of children’s books.
5 A wonderful story with a POWERFUL message! ★'s  “I am the Lorax. I speak for the trees. I speak for the trees for the trees have no tongues.”  Oh. My. Goodness! *in a singsong voice* I love, I love, I loovvve, The Lorax :) Seriously though this book right here is so so special! I know I say this like all the time but whatever... this is another one of my FAVORITE Dr. Seuss books. I mean HELLO it's Dr. Seuss for crying out loud, of course, it's amazing. I love all of his crazy, weird, cute, uni
*in a singsong voice* I love, I love, I loovvve, The Lorax :) Seriously though this book right here is so so special!
In all honesty though The Lorax has got to be Dr. Seuss's most serious of all his books, he really tones down all the silliness that's in his other books and really tries to drive his point across.
Point being we need care about our environment and that we have got to treat it right!
If your looking to read something goofy this isn't it but if you're interested in reading something with a powerful message...
I love books by Dr. Seuss in general, but The Lorax is definitely and by far my absolute favourite! Now, for any who have seen the film and not read the book yet, I should say that the book is slightly different, because the story is slightly shorter, which would not have worked for a movie.Nevertheless, or maybe exactly because of this, the book with its' magnificently cute drawings and wonderful rhymes is even more beautiful.A very important book to teach people (not just kids) about the importance of nature and the consequences of our actions!
Hate to see less than 5 Stars for a Seuss!I'm taking my Grand-girl to the the movie [her first IMAX] today and remembered I should rate in GR.I was raised on Seuss, my kids were raised on Seuss and now a third generation. What is not to love?Happy Reading!
Watch here
Ok, so it's a heavy-handed enviromental terror-tale. It's also the Seuss book that stuck with me the longest. Of all the books I read as a little kid, it's the one that I still remember making me feel something.I'm a conservationist-not an environmentalist by any stretch. The Lorax didn't teach me to hate industry or chew on organically-sustainable bark. It taught me to care about nature. To this day, decades after I read and re-read it, the drawing of the barren wasteland still gets to me.
UNLESS someone like youcares a whole awful lot,nothing is going to get better.It's not!
So, I understand that this book was written a long time ago, before this kind of environmental fairy tale was popularized, and perhaps when it was needed more.
But it still seems like a total straw man (hello?
can't you just plant your own grove of sustainable truffula trees?).
I guess as a kids' book it's supposed to be simple for kids to understand, but kids aren't that dumb.
I like a lot of Dr. Seuss, but any time he's trying to get across any kind of message (even a good one) it just rubs me the wrong way.
Of course, in a world that is not an emotionally manipulative moral fable, the Once-ler would have planted many more Truffula trees LONG before they became extinct, because when a resource is profitable and replenishable, any capitalist with even half a brain replenishes it.
On the other hand, I suppose the Lorax could be said also to be an extreme negative caricature of the environmentalist: he pops on the scene sporadically to scold with righteous indignation, offers no compromise, accomplishes nothing, leaves the costs of realizing his cause to others, and literally flies by the seat of his pants.
It's a superbly effective piece of propaganda, and, if I weren’t so concerned about balance, compromise, and critical thinking, I'd give it five stars.
It's not.Author/Illustrator: Dr SeussFirst published: 1971The ankle-biter had seen the animated movie The Lorax with her cousins and was keen to read the book.
I was wary because a) I understood the movie was substantially different to the book, and b) her reading ability (vocab and comprehension) IMO surpassed Dr Seuss.
And then there are his rhymes which defy a purely phonetic reading (eg trees and please, "Barbaloot suit").
It makes his books a greater challenge, and also a more interesting read, than many adults (including me) realise.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teaching...Age (taking into account comprehension, concentration, language):Read aloud - 5+Read yourself - 7+ (typical Suess playing with words makes a once simple vocabulary challenging)(ISBN 9780007173112)
Has nobody read this book? All these years and we are still chopping down trees, creating loads of pollution and happily killing off animals.This has to be Dr. Seuss's most serious book, he tones down the silliness and tries to get across his warning. The illustrations are wonderful, the start is so bleak and drab, all shades of grey and once the story gets told the colours are so vivid they jump out of the page at you, only for you to watch the grey come back as the trees get cut down.Wonderful story telling with a powerful message.
I felt sad when all the trees and animals were gone and I hope that with one seed, it can all come back.I didn’t like how the Once-ler was talking to the Lorax.
I think I’m getting too old for Dr. Seuss books because the stories are too short; but I still like watching the movies.My bottom line: I think littler kids like kindergarten kids and maybe kids in Grades 1 and 2 would like this book, but I still liked it.SON SAYS:What I liked and disliked about it: I really liked the Thneeds and how he made a whole shop of Thneeds – I really want a Thneed!
Regardless of the opportunity, the Once-ler is always looking to make money and for a fee, is willing to tell the boy a story about the past, where creatures lived harmoniously and only took what they needed from the Truffula trees (such as its fruits).
There is a great "seesaw effect" between nature and the living creature's response to it, which includes the great weight that humanity places on it.
*After watching and reading The Lorax by Dr. Seuss*Pollution is one of the major problems of the world.Pollution that is brought by thousands of reasons.
One of those reasons include: millions of trees being chopped down (not just in one forest) causing smog to constantly spread and form in numerous parts of the world.And at some point or another, we will begin to realize that having water and fresh air of high quality, in the amount we wish, and whenever we wish to use it, will become extremely difficult.UNLESS...Unless someone can speak for them.
Unless someone can speak for something worth fighting for.
Nothing is going to happen.
3.0 stars. Another classic Dr. Seuss installment. Not up to the level of his best work (e.g., The hat wearing cat, the grump and the emerald breakfast with ham) but still a fun one to read to the kids.
never polute, RIGHT ON
If pressed to pick one this would be my favorite Dr. Seuss story.
I grew up on Suess and enjoy bringing it to a new generation when I substitute teach.
I am always surprised by how many kids aren't familiar with the stories but I have yet to meet one that doesn't like them.
The message of the book is a simple but important one, we must take care of the planet or risk losing it's precious resources.
Even though it was written in 1971 it's message still holds up today and it's one I enjoy passing on to the kids I teach.
My brother also got this book from a book give away.
If there are other social studies teachers out there who want to know how I teach economics and specifically externalities (what they had been calling economic spillover), here you go: (I'll talk more about why The Lorax is about the economy rather than environment at the end...):I tell the students that the economy deals with the production, distribution, and consumption of goods.
No.Economic Spillover ( externality) = the positive and negative unintended consequences of economic development.The Once-ler wanted his Thneeds to make money, and make money they did.The problem is in a completely free and unregulated market economy, profit is god, at the expense of everything else - in this case, the book chooses to focus on the environment...
This is easily Dr.seuss' best book I've read so far. It's full of rich moral tips for kids reading the story. They'll bump into concepts of  greed  ,  saving this planet ,  importance of every individual in changing the world we live in  and maybe even more worthy things for the first time. I thoroughly enjoyed reading it. If there'd be a particular motive inside me to be a father someday, it'd definitely be due to the drive of reading these awesome children stories to my kid!
"Unless someone like you cares a whole lot, nothing is going to get better. It's not." I meant to read this book for Earth Day (even though I know I've read it before but I can't remember when), but I forgot, so I read it today instead.In case anyone doesn't know, this is the story of how a being called the Once-ler comes upon a forest of Truffula trees and decides that he wants to cut them down and use the tufts of the trees to make Thneeds and turn a huge profit. It shows the negative side ef
I can't imagine it would be as good on a regular kindle, because I think those are only black and white, but it was very vibrant on my iPad. In particular, with the illustrations, I love that the present is very gloomy, in grey and dark purple, but when the Once-ler is telling his story, the colors are vibrant, and there are so many more colors.I definitely recommend this book to everyone who hasn't read it, and for those who have to reread it because I think it's still incredibly relevant to today's society.
It's been many years since I read this book and I was actually hugely impressed. First, it's simply brilliant Dr. Seuss in terms of the writing style and illustrations--gotta love the fishies and bears and that cute little Lorax--and did anyone notice how Grinch-y the Once-ler's hands looked!?--and the rhymes and "nonsense" words that really make so much SENSE. Gosh, I love me some Dr. Seuss! And I love that, in the end, it is a young person who is entrusted with shaping the world--yay, empowered kids!
Most People think for themselves and have too much greed,Many of us don't know what we really need,Maybe, you just have to take a look at this book and read.
I remember my first animated movie as a kid was "Dot and the Whale".
I felt the same after reading "The Lorax",.A sad plight of our environment today where everybody is busy consuming and corporates are busy mind washing you by adverts, etc to trick you into believing you need their products leaving behind carcasses of trees, turning rivers and water bodies into dump yards, destroying marine life, spreading air pollution, decrease in air quality and ultimately leading to numerous diseases.The Lorax has put all these issues beautifully.
As an individual, yes maybe we care but as an organisation, as a corporate or as a group of consumers, we couldn't care less.
