https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122.The_Power_of_One
I fell in love with Peekay even 'before' he was five years old, starting in South Africa, when he shares of being nursed from his lovely black nanny before being sent to boarding school.
I can't begin to imagine sending a 5 year old away to a boarding school even in the 'best' of conditions.And the fact that this story is inspired by the authors real life....for me, this is one of the most wrenching parts of the entire book...."being sent away from his family at age 5 -- from 'love' he was receiving to 'hatred' he was walking into.
Audio version with introduction by the author himself. He is such a larrikin with a happy voice. Bryce Courtenay's debut, apparently toiled over at the kitchen table with his son's girlfriend stating "This is the best book I've read, you need to publish it" or words to the effect. The rest, they say, is history. "First with the head, then with the hands"  What an Australian classic, one that I should have read by now.Peekay starts out as a tiny tot (I have a 6 year old son and therefore horrifie
What an Australian classic, one that I should have read by now.Peekay starts out as a tiny tot (I have a 6 year old son and therefore horrified) who suffers dreadful abuse at this young age at boarding school, at the hands of horrible older boys, one in particular.
Emerging a wonderful, well rounded and amazing human being.Memories of his beloved wet nurse, neurotic mother and beloved music teacher and mentor; this is an epic story centring on the discipline and craft of boxing.
Peekay’s grandfather, I loved reading these parts between the young and the old: 
With war building in Europe, Peekay is led to believe by classmates that Hitler will soon arrive in South Africa to toss the shackles from the Afrikaner people, long subjugated by the English.
As he tried to acclimate to life in rural South Africa, Peekay befriends a highly interesting man, one Professor ‘Doc’ Karl von Vollensteen.
While the reader will notice strong ties between Peekay and one character in the early portion of the book, that individual will soon vanish, though their life lessons and impact are felt throughout the rest of the story.
I just finished reading The Power of One by Bryce Courtenay which was recommended to me by JK in our little cross country virtual book club.
Divided into three parts, this is a story of a boy named Peekay coming of age in 1930-1950's South Africa.
And then you have this really small boy going through hell at age 5 in a boarding school and learning at this infant stage in life how to survive.
"First with the head and then with the heart," is his mantra throughout the story.
I just found that a movie was made about the book in 1992...
Of all the books I read in 2009 one stands out in the horizon of my memory, a mass market paperback with 540 pages of microscopic print which I devoured in a day and a half.The Power of one gave me the chance to meet a part of myself that I thought I had lost forever.
I hardly know where to begin writing this review.
It stays with you and the characters live on inside your head.That's really the highest compliment I can pay a book.The story is so hard to describe without making it sound simplistic.
It's the kind of book I already know I will find myself recommending to all sorts of people.
I think it will have to be something entirely different, for it to have a chance, and for me not to compare it unfavorable to THE POWER OF ONE.Needless to say, once I have let some time pass for this story to sink in, I will be seeking out Bryce Courtenay's many other books.
Took me some time to read, but not because it wasn't good, but just because there is so much to this story. A supremely well written book! If you like historical fiction - the type focused on people living in certain historical eras, not necessarily specific historical events - you will enjoy this story. I now feel like I have a good feel for WWII era South Africa. Also, if you like interesting characters and good character development, this is a good story for you, too.
I had high hopes for this book, but in the end was a little disappointed.
I also think the "power of one" is a rather funny concept considering the main character, Peekay, who supposedly possesses (or cultivates) this power owes much of it all to the support he has from many friends, mostly adults.
People who took the time and energy and love to support him and promote him, mind, body, and spirit.
His power of one is only possible from the love and care of many.
And it makes me sad that the story ended with a story of revenge, i think it cheapens the story.
Peekay endures awful humiliation and abandonment at such a young age yet he struggles along through adversity and heartbreaking losses.Numerous comments by readers mention they did not care for the ending, but I, for one, loved it!
(view spoiler)[I kept wondering when the 'judge' would reappear hoping he would get his comeuppance and was so glad Peekay gave it to him good.
When early in the book the 'judge' abused Peekay, even after he did all his homework and promised otherwise, made him eat human sh*t, tortured and killed Granpa Chook, Peekay's beloved and clever rooster and only friend, the ending made me feel pretty darn satisfied.
(hide spoiler)]A touching and up-lifting story I plan to read again.
Peekay's open-minded acceptance of others, accords him a mythical status with the African people in the prison and community, and he becomes revered as the "Tadpole Angel", creating a large following as his boxing career advances.Eventually, Peekay earns a scholarship and it sent to an exclusive prep school, where he meets his next good friend and mentor, a wealthy Jew named Morrie.
Equally brilliant, the two develop businesses together, which allow them to afford getting Peekay trained at an elite boxing school.
This is the story of Peekay, a frail, young, English boy growing up poor in South Africa and of his refusal to be demoralized by the racial torment surrounding him.
On the road to becoming a young man he cultivates some uniquely, diverse friends and discovers many truths, not the least of which, are that loyalty, strength, love and compassion, coupled with a insatiable, thirst for knowledge and armed with the focus and courage to stay true to one's own self, can all be fused together, thus harnessing a power so potent that any worthy goal can and will be achieved.
For me the message that rings out loudest and clearest in this story is how ridiculous racial hatred truly is.
This book is a wonderful story of the hope and success of an underdog, of relationships breaking barriers of race, age, religion, wealth, and of a boy learning who he is and who he should be.
***SPOILER ALERT*** For most of the book I really thought, this could really happen.
Allowing Peekay to conquer the Judge in one simple fight left me very unsatisfied.
Made me feel like Courtenay got so deep in the fascinating intricacies of the stories that he couldn't find a way out, got tired of writing, and tossed in that scene so I could get back to the other 15 or so books on my bookshelf...
Follow the life of a British child who comes of age amidst resentful Boers who are recovering from their own persecution while simultaneously championing the causes of Hitler in Germany.
This precocious boy struggles to understand the clash of races and racism while simultaneously overcoming boundaries through the medium of competitive boxing.One perhaps could make the arguement that a tinge of racism lingers in the storyline itself due to the fact that the main character, a white boy, becomes the perceived savior and idol of the native African tribesmen (sort of like Ben Kingsley, a Brit, portraying Gandhi onscreen).
The Power of One is a semi-auto biographical coming of age story set in South Africa during the 1940’s.PK is an English boy who endures a great deal of abuse from the Boer children, some of whom are Nazi sympathizers until he is taught to box.
He is an exceptional student who later befriends Doc, a German professor who is a great pianist but who is confined to the local prison for the duration of the war.
He becomes a local boxing champion and always displays a great deal of humanity towards Zulus and seemingly anyone who is not part of the power structure in those awful conditions that made up Apartheid.
I read THE POWER OF ONE 8 years ago, and the story and messages of the novel continue to resonate with me still. This is such a powerful journey of character, courage, and self. I would read this book again in a heartbeat. Truly amazing.
"The Power of One" is the story of the childhood and adolescence of a South African boy, Peekay.
His first boxing mentor, Hoppie, advised him, "First with the head and then with the heart, that's how a man stays ahead from the start."Doc, a German music teacher and naturalist, plays a father figure and good friend to the precocious young boy.
After helping some black prisoners with Doc and his colored boxing coach, Geet Piels, Peekay becomes a symbol of hope to the black South Africans.
Peekay savagely destroys Botha, the Judge that started him on the road to violence; while Peekay is violent in self defense, he perpetrates his violence with a ruthlessness and controlled savagery that dwarfs any of his childhood persecutions at the Judge's hands.
The final, brutal mutilation of Botha -- an act that likely raises few eyebrows amongst readers directed as it is at a symbol we consider pure evil -- is an overtly violent catharsis that brings peace to Peekay's spirit (but not an end to his need for violence).
Review of Audio book, The Power of One written by Bryce Courtenay, Narrated by Humphrey Bower.This has been both a Hard and Easy review to write.
Bryce writes superbly throughout the book but this connection with his unusual animal friend, the love and respected trust with his chicken hit me the hardest because of my best friend Mandy.
Easy to praise this audio book as not only the writing of this story is superb but the narration by Humphy Bower, who’s expressive warm voice transcends the normal narrator with his rich repertoire he narrates the characters with a ‘pull all the stops out’ experience.
The Power of One is at its simplest, a story of self-reliance and perseverance in times of hardship and struggle.
The story follows Peekay from childhood through his young adult years, including his schooling, his pursuit of boxing, and his odd collection of enemies, friends, mentors and teachers.
The book is long, and it took me quite a long time to get into the story.
It was a commitment, particularly because I found the pace of the story to be slow and full of (somewhat unnecessary) detail early on, but once I did finally get into it, The Power of One was quite good.
This is one of the most important books I have ever read.
The reader really gets pulled into the life of PK, experiencing his trials and successes.
There are also some very dark times in his life, but these serve to prove the triumph of the human spirit and so are a valuable part of the story.
One of the lessons I took away from the book was the value in accepting people how they are, no matter if their beliefs or behavior aligns with what you perceive as right or wrong.
My rating is probably somewhat closer to 4 stars. I enjoyed the story of Peekay and all the other characters but for me (I know I'm the outlier) it just took too long to tell it. I won't soon forget him though :))
I firmly believe that a book or a movie can be about absolutely anything as long as its well written.
If you do happen to read the back cover, you will learn that the book is about boxing, but it's hardly just about boxing.
The book starts off with the main character, whose real name you never learn, heading off to boarding school at 5 years old.
Although it's told from his point of view, the story is not at all childish because Peekay is wise beyond his years.
Bad things happen to Peekay, but the reader quickly realizes that all will work out in the end.
An absolutely wonderful read with amazing characters. South African historical fiction. Highly recommended.
The story begins when Peekay is 5 years old and ends when he is 17, but the 12 years covered are formative; although we don't know what lies in store for Peekay by the end of the book, we know he will carry the experiences of his boyhood with him for the rest of his life.Young Peekay is a white child of British heritage growing up in South Africa after the British absorbed the Boer republics into the British Empire in the early 1900s after winning the second Anglo-Boer War. The Boers, who speak Afrikaans, and the British, who speak English, spend a lot time looking down on each other, both both group look down on black South Africans, who speak many languages.
The book follows a young man, Peekay, as he grows up in South Africa in the 30s and 40s.
And if you should be there and you see this beautiful cactus blossom painted silver by the moon and laughing up at the stars, this is heaven…This is the faith in God the cactus has… It is better just to get on with the business of living and minding your own business and maybe, if God likes the way you do things, he may just let you flower for a day or a night.
For example, I loved the story of the main character's relationships with others, particularly with an old German professor who helps to shape his mind.
However, I got bored with the focus on boxing, something I have no interest in but which permeated every aspect of the story.
On the other hand, I got tired of the story itself, which had five or six climaxes and denouments.
I thought the author's treatment of South African nationalism was very good, and it helped me understand later issues of apartheid and Mandela.
4.5 StarsWhat’s not to love about a book about rising up and succeeding and becoming a symbol to all the people ( White, Black, Boers) of South Africa!An uplifting book about a young boy who is tormented at school and whose dream is to become a welter- weight champion. Peekay, the boy, is wise beyond his years. He listens and learns and becomes an instrument of change.A beautiful, heartfelt book that was occasionally bogged down by too much detail, but nonetheless succeeded in all the important ways- a great story that is inspirational and satisfying!Highly recommended!
Audible I came across Bryce Courtenay through the narrator. I was such impressed by Humphrey Bower performance in Shantaram that I immediately started to look for his other works after I had finished it. It is a fate. Now I'm looking forward to reading more by Bryce Courtenay, because his books are exactly the kind of a life story I am seeking for.The Power of One takes place in South Africa and covers the period of time from the early 1930s up to the late 1940s, the birth of apartheid. It tell
Now I'm looking forward to reading more by Bryce Courtenay, because his books are exactly the kind of a life story I am seeking for.The Power of One takes place in South Africa and covers the period of time from the early 1930s up to the late 1940s, the birth of apartheid.
It tells a touching and a moving life story of Peekay, an English boy, beautifully written and with a great insight into the cultural background of the country, and a lot of love to the people and the continent itself.
I shouldn't have picked up this audiobook immediately after Shantaram, too strong were the connection of Humphrey Bower to Lin (Shantaram).
I thoroughly enjoyed many elements of this book, and I learned a tremendous amount about boxing and the history of South Africa, through a child's eye view.
However, my opinion took a downward plunge toward the end of the book -- specifically the final 5 pages of the book.
I don't want to include any spoilers, but what on earth was the author thinking?!?
I interpreted the book's message so differently from what is depicted in the final scene.
Perhaps I owe the author a second reading.
The more I think about the story and try to derive meaning from it, the madder I get!
God help me, I'll never finish this book.
I'm drowning in uninspired writing.
Ok, I finished it.
This was truly one of the most laborious reads I've had in quite a while.
Suffice it to say I thought I'd never climb my way out to read another book again in my life.
The writing style isn't difficult--it's not that that made it painful to get through.
It's just a terribly written book with terribly boring, stock characters who go around doing terribly improbable things that evoke not one ounce of feeling from me because I'm making "blah blah blah" noises.
