https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1436473.The_Spirit_in_Man_Art_and_Literature
كون فرويد ينقطع في تناوله لبعض المواضيع الشائكة والمترابطة."""""""""""""""يتناول يونگشخصيات مختلفة من ازمنة مختلفة ويفكك رموزها مثل باراسيلوس وفرويد و ريتشارد ويلهلم و اوليسيس جويس واخيرا بيكاسو ويحللهم تحليل علمنفسي - اعتبره منصف - وغير مجحف بحقهم ويطرح عقدهم النفسية ويحاول تفكيكها عن بإسلوب علمنفسي صرف."""""""""""""""الكتاب يفتح الآفاق للتعمق بـ "روح الإنسان" ولايقصد بها؛ تلك الروح التي عرفنا معناها من خلال ثقافاتنا وديننا وعاداتنا وتقاليدنا، كلا.
انها الروح من منظور علمنفسي تلك التي هي موجودة ليس فقط بالكائنات الحية وحسب، وانما الروح التي توجد بكل شيء، قد اكون دقيقا عندما اقول صبغة الاشياء التي تضهر جلية للعيان.
İnsan,sanat ve edebiyat..hepsi ruhta birleşiyor. Carl Gustav Jung Paracelsus,Freud,Richard Wilhelm,Picasso ve Ulysses üzerine denemelerini sunuyor.Özellikle bir dönem öğrencisi olduğu Freud üzerine düşüncelerini okumak keyifliydi.
He comments that a work of art is in and of itself, as unexplainable and as mysterious as Life itself.One of the funniest things I've read in a long time is his examination of James Joyce's Ulysses.
Collectively, individually and in our schools and media, we tacitly support this heartless killing through our ignorance and/or inaction, and at the same time put into power people like Trump in no small part because of the over sentimentalized sell of his 'making America great again.'I started reading this a while ago, but only as a small essay filler book that I use to fill short reading opportunities.
In the modern psychoanalytic literary critical theory, where Freud and Lacan still are the centre of attention, Yung has been often overlooked. And yet, it's Yung who passionately talks about Art and the psychic aspect of it. This collection of his notes and essays is a solid proof in this regard that guides you through Yung's labyrinthine mind. However, his literary style in writing rejects clarity and keeps the door open for forthcoming various, if not conflicting, interpretations.
the book is very dense in its language, its basically a series of essays by jung about art and creativity.
its at times very hard to understand, i had to read it certain paragraphs again to get a better grasp of what he is trying to say.
i particurlarly likes his analysis of frued its probably the best part of the book.
its very objective and well written, puts his arguments against freudism very succintly which has been confirmed by other experts later than 1930s when he wrote it, so he was a head of his time.
its well worth a read if your into art,literature and psychology.
Particularly liked his riff on Ulysses and Mr Joyce, though I've not read it and am no more likely to after reading this!
LOVED THIS BOOK!
Primero Jung junta artículos que ha trabajado sobre Paracelso (el médico que es capaz de ligar la salud del cuerpo con los astros y con la filosofía), Sigmund Freud (con quien trabajó) y Richard Whilhelm (quien trae el I Ching a occidente).
El libro es una buena invitación a trabajar estos y otros autores que aparecen reseñados tales como Dante (y la Divina Comedia), Nietzsche, Goethe (y el Fausto).
Me gustó cómo mira la relación del médico Paracelso con el conocimiento especial que debe tener y con su proximidad con la "luz de la naturaleza".
47Uno de los capítulos que más me gustó es el dedicado a la memoria de Richard Wilhelm.
Full of interesting observations and insights. The essay on Psychology and Literature is essential background for those wanting to apply psychoanalysis to writing: the risks and benefits. For stimulating views of Joyce and Picasso I guess Jung was of his time, but I find his categorisation of Picasso as a schizoid personality (from his paintings) strikes a chord: "produces pictures which immediately reveal their alienation from feeling.... they communicate no immediate harmonious feeling-tone but, rather, contradictory feelings or even a complete lack of feeling." Not sure how much this says about Jung too, but I can go along with that.
Its a random assortment of stuff - kind of a "spare parts" modge podge anthology - but its mostly very interesting and very good - lower rating than most, because alot of it was rather obscure to me, but that with which I'd had previous experience was very interesting. I love how really cutting edge and ahead of his time (by about 50 years) Jung was.
Loved it!
تعرفت في هذا الكتاب على "باراسيلسوس" لأول مرة وأُعجبت به كـ"روحاني" ولكن لم انسجم معه كطبيب..كتاب لطيف، والطف مافيه فصل العلاقة بين علم النفس التحليلي والشعر
I found the discussion on the psychology of artists particularly fascinating, including several extremely valuable insights into my own nature and condition.
This is rather a miscellany of texts on various subjects by C.G. Jung, none of them difficult to understand.
Excellent collections of nine essays on philosophy and literature.
