https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91477.Fool_Moon
But Harry is seriously, seriously shitting me.Harry Dresden is a Wizard private eye who works largely with the Chicago police department's Special Investigations officer, Murphy.He has the most over-developed Hero complex of any protagonist I've ever read, to the point of ridiculous.
Murphy suddenly decides Harry is involved and likely a murderer and tries to arrest Harry.
If Murphy has to whack him over the head and tell him one more time to let her take care of herself then I just might help her bury his ass.And I like that Murphy is strong and capable but she's also stupid, she jumps to conclusions and is WAAAAAaaaaaayyyyy too trigger happy when it comes to doubting Harry.And Harry never gets rightfully annoyed that Murphy is so willing to jump to the conclusion that he's a vicious, lying murderer every five seconds.
Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsBR with my peeps at: Buddies Books and BaublesSpecifically:  Robin (Bridge Four) ,  Jennavier ,  Jenny ,  Lila ,  oOSarahOo ,  Sh3lly (Not all those who wander are lost) , and  Steven I don't know if it was the lowered expectations from being told by every-friggin'-body that DRESDEN doesn't start "getting good" until book 3 or 4, or if it was how much cooler the book was than the TV episode based on this same installment, or something else entirely . . . The why doesn't r
I AM NOT ENDORSING HERD MENTALITY.)BUT.That doesn't change the fact that right now she's an unreasonably mistrustful, impulsive, violent harpy.Beyond Harry himself improving, there was also a solid plot with solid good guys and bad guys (the lack of which being my biggest complaint about STORM FRONT).Some kind of werewolf is killing people in Chicago.
An insect-like demon giving teasers about Harry's mother, and more escapades with Harry's ability to "soulgaze" kept the pages turning, and I felt like Butcher really raised the bar.However, it wasn't perfect.There were eye rolls when a nerd was characterized by looking like he should have a pocket protector, and when Harry told the Bad Guy that he's "scum" .
But then a new murder mystery comes along, one involving brutally mutilated corpses, paw prints left behind on the scene, and a full moon…This book was actually quite different in a number of ways.
I especially enjoyed the introduction of Chauncy the demon, and Harry’s rather interesting conversation with his own subconscious.In the end, this was not a great book, but it’s definitely going in the right direction.
Considering that most people seem to think that this is another of the second-rate Dresden books, I am certainly looking forward to reading the really good ones.
This was going to be an ode to the awesomeness that is Harry D.
I was going to go all "blah blah blah this is fantastic, blah blah blah this is so cool, blah blah blah Harry D.
Because as much as I love Harry I don't have time for this.
Sometimes I wonder if you know me at all.▧ Okay, let's do this.Wait.
Moving on.►►► Why I'm still in love with Harry D.
But I think it's pretty cool.
His t-shirts are pretty cool).
② Harry's magic is VERY cool.
Don't ask.→ And then there's Bob. I'm in love.►►► What else?
Harry was frustratingly self-righteous and Murphy was annoyingly judgmental and their tense, mistrustful interactions left me hoping one or both of them would be eaten by a werewolf (tbf their last scene together was pretty awesome and I'm hoping their relationship will continue on that note and leave behind the distrust that has been really annoying since half-way through the last book).
The allusions to Harry's deceased parents not having been what they seemed, coupled with his affinity for dark magic, makes for a really interesting situation that I hope will be explored later on in the series.
right???Then, every once in a while, I go and read a book written by a man and I'm reminded that indeed, I have been over-thinking it.
My husband, and all other men for that matter, are probably thinking about sex, or things of a sexual nature far more often than I could imagine.When it comes to books written by men, more often than not the male characters describe women they encounter in a sexual manner.
My point is: because I don't exactly understand men, how they think, and how I'm left feeling disappointed by the tiny bit that does seem to make sense, I tend to avoid books written by men.
Fool Moon is Jim Butcher’s second Harry Dresden novel, first published in 2001 to wild acclaim and popularity.And why not?
I had to break out my second edition Dungeons & Dragons: Monster Manual and see what kind of rules Gary Gygax laid down.
And even then Butcher threw in a very subtle variation that made me say “Ahhh.”So a few months after the dust has settled from Harry’s last adventure from the events in Storm Front, the Wizard Fun Train gears up again for a howling good time.Also fun is Butcher’s cast of characters, most notably Harry’s friend Bob, a talking skull.
Well, I've copied my review from two years ago below, and I feel like it is pretty much on point with how I feel after reading the book a second time.
The first half wasn't bad, and the book actually felt like it ended halfway through.
After Harry talks to himself, the book kind of resets and goes off into another, even more ridiculous, story arc.
I will discover that elusive book that turns the series around!
The last third of the book is just completely ridiculous and the whole story just fell apart for me.
Book 4?
Book 4?
The premise screams werewolves, and that's actually my favorite supernatural creature.
Werewolves are badass and ruthless, but once again, Butcher had his own take on the supernatural.
This lacked the action that it needed, and the plot seems a bit mediocre.I wanted more of Dresden and Murphy, but right from the start of the novel Murphy already shunned Dresden.
The main antagonist here wasn't as amazing as the one from the first novel.
With a premise consisting of werewolves, this novel should've been a lot better.
As mediocre as this novel may be, this series is still slowly becoming one of my favorites.
“It isn't enough to stand up and fight darkness. You've got to stand apart from it, too. You've got to be different from it.”    2.5 Stars . Unless things drastically improve by book three, I think it's safe to say that The Dresden Files is one of the most overrated series of all time. At least the first two books, anyway ;]. For the life of me, I can't figure out why these are so outrageously popular. A good friend of mine read them around the same time that I did, and these were the words he
. Unless things drastically improve by book three, I think it's safe to say that The Dresden Files is one of the most overrated series of all time.
The more I think about it, the more I feel like this book fails in everything that it is trying to do.
I've included just a few of the quotes in the book that reference the hair on the back on Harry's neck.
"Once more, the hairs on my neck were standing up."
I'll give book three a shot, but if it doesn't rock my world, I'm dropping this series for good, I think.
Back into the world of Harry Dresden through another excellent audio book presentation.
Not that I'm complaining.The interesting premise of this book is that there are multiple ways to become a werewolf and it explores the problems associated with each.
I always assumed a werewolf was just an unfortunate who received a nasty bite.
Silly me.(view spoiler)[My favorite part was the dream when Harry's subconscious came out of the shadows to talk to himself.
I wish that my own dreams were that straight forward.
(hide spoiler)]Harry is still snarky and dour and I loved this.
On to the next book!
The narrative also seemed to flow better in this instalment and I found myself excited to pick up the book again whenever I had to put it down to get on with real life.I believe that this will be a pattern in the series where the readers get introduced to different forms of supernatural beings and foes as we progress from one book to the other.
World-building in urban fantasy requires a pretty different level of creativity as one is confined to a certain extent with already commonly known myths of supernatural beings like werewolves, vampires, zombies, etc.
Buddy read with a few friends at Buddies Books and Baubles. Harry Dresden is going to grow on me. We have been on two outings now and already I see some real potential in this budding relationship between us. Harry has a few things in his positive column right now:✔ - Cool friends and acquaintances: Bob – The skull animated by a sexually adventurous wind spirit who has the memory skills of a computer and a potions master status equivalent to Severus Snape. Chauncy - Harry’s demon buddy who seems
I look forward to seeing him blend in a little more with real deal Harry over time.Susan - Reporter for an occult type magazine and current love/lust interest…I don’t like her…I don’t know why…I just don’t so moving on.✔ - Cool Toys:Harry has some super cool things going on.
I like the world but I get distracted by a few things along the way because I don’t have enough details yet.Such as….Harry got uber beat up in this book and yet was still able to function after just a short time sleeping.
90% of this book was a snorefest. It felt like one Adam 12 (look it up) in book form with a wizard thrown in. Then we get to the end and it turns awesome making me wonder if I should continue this or not. I know everybody says this gets better as the books go on but if he wastes the first quarter of every book letting us know who Harry is I won't make it. The last part when Harry transforms, to be vague and not spoil anything, is awesome. Great thought process and action.
Harry Dresden took me right out of my book funk.
I mean, who can be in a funk while listening to James Marsters???
I don't even care that James Marsters makes all of his characters sound almost the same.
I don't care that he swallows and clears his throat all the time.
His voice is perfect for Harry Dresden and I love him for it.
My only wish is that there were fewer misunderstandings, especially between Harry and Murphy.
Silly misunderstandings ranks up there among my most hated pet peeves.
Rock on, Harry Dresden.
Harry's talent happens to be magic, but by grounding his skills in the lovable body of an everyday geek (albeit a badass geek), the kind of geek we all know and understand, Butcher makes everything about his Chicago -- the city, the people (especially Harry) and the magic -- as accessibly realistic as an urban fantasy-noir can be.Furthermore, as an inveterate Indiana Jones fan, the constant references, intentional or otherwise, to Raiders of the Lost Ark are enough to keep me happy even when Harry Dresden miraculously pulls off his self-proclaimed mission against ridiculous odds that are compounded by bloodloss and bruising and beatings that would put a normal person in the hospital, which is, of course, another reference to Indiana Jones, making me love Dresden even more.This is only the second book of The Dresden Files, so I don't want to go too far in my praise -- I am expecting better stories to come -- but as fantasy-noir entertainments go, Fool Moon is top notch.
It just becomes overload - so much so that at one point, Butcher has to bring the novel to a screeching halt, look at the camera, and go "okay, let's remind the readers of what all is on Dresden's plate right now.
Oh - and while the potion workings are kind of cool (okay, I really like the potions in Butcher's world), I swear, if he makes two potions at the start of a book that just HAPPEN to be exactly what he needs later on for reasons that have NOTHING to do with why he made the damn things in the first place...
This book is a fast paced urban fantasy novel that succeeds because of the likable characters and the well-designed world.
Harry, the main character, is an archetypal everyman with spells.
The author’s skill, ingenuity and craftiness keep the plot fresh and entertaining.The book borders on victim literature as Harry struggles through one incredibly painful, hopeless situation to the next.
This helps create tension in the story as the reader feels a sense of weakness or hopelessness that builds as the story progresses.
The supporting cast of characters helps round out the story nicely.
Really enjoying this series! Can't wait for book 3!
Embarrassing confession: I don't know how I got this impression from the first book- I must have glossed over the parts where Murphy's description was provided- but this whole time I've been thinking of Karrin Murphy as a short, plump, middle-aged woman with a button nose and a blonde head of hair.
When someone mentions that Harry should ask her out I'm thinking, "Ew, why?" But apparently she's just short, button-nosed and blonde without being plump, middle-aged or toad-like.
Harry has to figure out who is killing people - and the victims look like they've been savaged by wolves.
But I did like how there are different types of werewolves in this world and I don't think any of them can be turned.
I find it annoying how Harry is always running off alone and rejects any support and keeps things from people and inevitably gets himself into disastrous situations.
At first, it's charming and funny, but I can see this getting seriously annoying if it doesn't change as the series goes on.That being said, there is a lot of great world-building and potential.
There's a lot of humor and interesting supporting characters.
My Thoughts:Alot of my friends (you know who you are) have been urging me to try this series for months.
I read the first book, Storm Front back in August & I wasn't impressed.
Muah!In the previous book, Harry Dresden had to battle a beyond nutso Warlock bent on ending him.
Even when Harry was ready to piss his pants, he had a plan & he made things happen.
The third book is Grave Peril & I can't wait to read about what supernatural baddies Harry comes up against next.
While Storm Front had to spend time in exposition, this world of Dresden is set up, so we can get more into the action.
Harry has to deal with some seriously nasty werewolves, loup garou in fact, who are the most dangerous werewolves.
And these loup garou take out a lot of people, even the Precinct where Harry's sort-of boss with the Police Department, Karrin Murphy works.
I was holding my breath until the end, because Harry is in serious jeopardy in this book, and much of Chicago.There's a mystery to be solved, and corruption in high places in law enforcement, and lots of innocent people to be saved?
I decided to give the series another try. I liked this one better than the first but some things still feel forced. Like Murphy's unrelenting antagonism. And Harry's need to save everyone, all the time.
Harry Dresden Fan Art ~ by thegryph (Nicole Cardiff)★★★★ I love Harry Dresden. I love his duster, his blasting rod and staff, his shield bracelet and force rings, his mother’s silver pentacle amulet, and the way he keeps upgrading these - just like we all do with the technological toys that make our life easier. I love the way he talks about magic, and I love the way he combines elements to create his magic. I know, I should quit gushing and get to the storyline, but he’s just so loveable, even
This resident ‘anti-hero’ who occasionally works for Lieutenant Karrin Murphy, Director of Special Investigation, Chicago, Illinois, has wormed his way into my heart.
In Fool Moon Harry starts investigating werewolf-related killings, meeting a young group of them called the Alphas.
I love that after making them, Harry puts them in plastic sports bottles.
Bob also tells Harry about the “loup garou.” 
“Loup-garou,” Bob said.
The loup-garou are the major monsters, Harry.
While Harry’s relationship with Susan Rodriguez, a reporter, is heating up, I am still secretly rooting for something to happen between Harry and Murphy.
I'm really only here because so many people swear this turns into something more amazing than a large pizza after a long day, so of course they got my interest. The first two books are solid urban fantasy mysteries, but I'm expecting something mind blowing to follow. Harry Dresden, you better not disappoint me.
Harry the wizard is back.
Nope, not that one.
Harry Blackstone Copperfield Dresden.
Wizard for hire.
Harry hasn't had a lot of work come his way.
He has been on the outs with Murphy his police officer friend who usually gives him work.
When he does receive a call from her, he knows it is going to be a bad one.
Yep, bad.
Mangled corpse.
Evisceration.
The full moon brings out more than the crazies!I love Harry.
He isn't perfect.
This book was great.
It isn't as straight forward as you think going into it.
I really recommend this book.
But not a whole lot better.Harry Dresden should have been dead several times over, yet somehow manages to survive despite being terrifically stupid.
Thank goodness his arch-nemeses (the innumerable people who somehow have it in for Dresden) are as incredibly stupid as he is, or else this series would have been over partway through the first book.
But the werewolf gets the boot off Dresden’s foot: scary stuff, indeed.Other precious moments: Harry Dresden talking to himself, literally, in a dream sequence.
I’d be loading up on ammo and trying to figure out how NOT to get killed, but Dresden is apparently too much of a sexual dynamo to be bothered with such trifles.
(The title appear in chapter 27.) After a dry patch of no new cases, Dresden learns about a string of killings that all seem to point towards werewolf activity - but which type of werewolf it is, and what reason is behind the deaths?We meet again familiar characters: Mister the cat, Bob the skull, the Blue Beetle, and Murphy, who is having a hard time trusting Harry, as he's unable/unwilling to tell her all about the supernatural side to the story (but I feel things mend a little again at the end).

