https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3008660-strange-conflict-duke-de-richleau-9
A very cool chase ensues with the three combatants shifting into antagonistic shapes in a running pursuit across the astral plane, sort of a high speed wizards' duel (the spy for instance, shifts into a snake and plunges down a hole, the Duke dives after him, changing in mid air from a falcon to a burrowing mongoose, etc).
After a rousing start however, the book sort of sags in the middle, when the Duke and friends meet up with a new ally and trace the sinister occult Nazi to Haiti.
There are crash landings and desperate escape from mobs and bombs and evil elementals and the summoning of Great Old Ones and corpse mutilations all as stand in for some of the real problems that faced the British at roughly the same time the novel was written and takes place in: espionage, cipher breaking, double agents, and important personal battles in out-of-the-way locales.
Strange Conflict (1942) in which the Germans, having sterilized the entire population of Poland make use of supernatural aid in the Blitz – where de Richleau and his confreres must frustrate Nazi compacts with Dark Forces.
There are some scenes that wouldn't be out of place in a modern Oscar-winning movie, such as a fight between the Duke and the evil Voodooist, a game of tennis on the Astral Plane (truly!), a chilling scene with the goodies, protected only by a pentacle, menaced by all sorts of ab-human elementals, and a truly spectacular chase scene when the hordes of hell pursue the heroes through the spirit world.
I have loved the Duke’s arguments about how the supernatural is real and its relation to existing religion, but for the first 30% of the novel it is almost word for word the dialogue from Devil Rides Out. The Duke spends a good portion travelling in the astral plane to find the evil sorcerer and while it was interesting, it seriously dragged.The villain is eventually located in Haiti and the heroes leave war-torn Britain for the tropics.
(Again, being that the novel was written during the Blitz and for people enduring the Blitz, I’m sure it was a perfect escape for readers at that time.) There they encounter Voodoo and everything goes crashing downhill for me.I’ve praised Wheatley for his incredible research into religions and the occult.
Another 1940's-penned adventure from DW which although in the edge of credibility nevertheless succeeds in building the tension and desperation of the heroes through the plot. The style is somewhat genteel in today's world but fun.
I wonder if the CIA knows how much easier it is if one can travel in the astral?Hmm, it appears that de Richleau, Rex, Richard, and Simon have been up to all sorts of mischief (through the Duke de Richleau series) since 
Rex is on his own in Strange Conflict, and there is absolutely no mention of her.It is an "adventure" that forces de Richleau to consider his life, his dabbling with Magic and that he is not quite White.
They had no jobs to lose, no favours to seek, no ambition which wasn't already satisfied, and neither acknowledged any master except the king of England."I can't really explain it, but I quite like Wheatley's writing style.
I guess it's the Britishness or whatever, while at the same time he writes clearly and without trying to pretend he's doing something else than he is."From their conversation it was soon clear to the Duke that she was neither the captain's wife nor his fiancée, but that their relations had reached a degree of no uncertain intimacy was soon manifest."The book could have been a bit shorter though, the points about (view spoiler)[Haiti / voodoo etc.
বইটার নাম আর পরচছদ দেখে বেশ জমাট একখানা ভৌতিক গলপ পড়ার পরসতুতি নিয়ে শুরু করেছিলাম। পড়া শুরুর পর ধীরে ধীরে হতাশ হতে শুরু করলাম। এটাকে ঠিক ভৌতিক বই নয়, বরং ভূতুড়ে এযাডভেঞচার বই বলা যেতে পারে। দবিতীয় বিশবযুদধ চলাকালীন সময়ে নাৎসীদের হাতে একের পর এক বিপরযসথ হচছিলো বরিটিশ নৌযান। এ সময় ডিউক দয রিচলুর সাহাযয পরারথী হন সযার পেলিনর। ডিউক নাৎসীদের গুপত খবর সংগরহ করার বযাপারে তাকে শোনায় অদভুত কিছু ঘটনা, যা পরথমটায় সযার পেলিনর কিছুতেই মেনে নিতে পারছিলেন না। অবশেষে বাধয হয়ে ডিউক তাকে হোয়াইট মযাজিকের বযবহার দে
বইটার নাম আর প্রচ্ছদ দেখে বেশ জমাট একখানা ভৌতিক গল্প পড়ার প্রস্তুতি নিয়ে শুরু করেছিলাম। পড়া শুরুর পর
Read. Enjoyed.
I know Wheatley is a just supernatural pulp writer but I'm always disappointed in his books.
The first one I read, The Devil Rides Out, I liked despite its flaws--mostly, being too long.
This is the third I've read since then and the quality keeps going downhill, so this may be the last.
The set-up is promising: during WWII, the Nazis are using a satanist to help them get secret British navy plans, and the same intrepid group of occult warriors from Devil Rides Out go to do battle on the astral plane (and later, in Haiti) for the forces of light.
'Strange Conflict' has all the trademarks of a genuine Wheatley book: it is racist, sexist, chauvinist, militarist, etc.
On the one hand, however, this one is much better than the post WWII books where Wheatley spends most of the pages moaning about the decline of British power and regularly descends into paranoia about Commies everywhere.
In this sense, the book is a much better read than the Black Magic books from the 50s and 60s.
On the other hand, the wartime context makes the text much too didactic to be anything else than bad prose.

This was another enjoyable entry in the Black Magic series by Dennis Wheatley. It is set during the second world war and was written about this time. Some of the characters and cultural attitudes are dated and downright racist, but if you can read past this you may find this occult adventure enjoyable. There was a time when Mr. Wheatley was wildly popular but is no, sadly, all but forgotten. World of warning: the perpetually offended Social Justice Warrior types should avoid this book...it may be 'triggering'. Rating: 4 out of 5 Stars
A vintage Wheatley... crisp action in an exotic but deadly setting and a number of resolute heroes (and heroine) that eventually triumph after a number of twists and turns... the squeamish may complain its non-p.c. but it has to be seen in context of its times - 1941 - when the outcome of the war was still in doubt.
I really enjoyed the book, lots of action and quite a page turner. I found the main characters a bit over the top, all so wholesome and wonderful with not a flaw between them, which makes it hard for me to relate to them. Also I think the age of the book shows with how wonderful England is and we are the best apparently! But don't let it put you off reading it.
Slow in the first half, which recycles lots of the material from The Devil Rides Out, but picks up when the action moves to Haiti. Wheatley lays on the wartime propaganda a little too much in places, and there are some embarrassingly out-of-date ideas, bordering on racism at times.
My brother brought this back from England in the 60's and it was one of the scariest books I ever read. Dennis Wheatley was ahead of his time!
One of many books from this book club and this author. Not sure when I finished this, but guessing 1973
One of Wheatley better black magic novels involving Nazis in WW 2 using magic to defeat England . The Duke e Richleau to the rescue.
BookCrossing ID 797-10070390
very interesting material, but the plot is kinda lame
I read this book years ago,but I still enjoyed it a second time.
Great read
