https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/421736.Wyatt_Earp
As with all mythical legends some of what Lake wrote was based on fact, but much of it fell into the category of tall tale.However, what made it believable to so many readers for so long is the fact that Lake had the co-operation of Earp in writing the book.
The answer is because that is where it belongs.My reprint copy of the book, published in 1994, has this blurb on the front cover: “The only authorized biography of the legendary man who inspired two of the year’s biggest movie events!” That would be Tombstone, starring Kurt Russell, and Wyatt Earp, starring Kevin Costner.
This is a popular novelization of the Wyatt Earp story.
It’s fast-paced, flashy and full of action.
If you are looking for something less pretentious than Kevin Costner’s portrayal, and more sober than the vaudevillian film Tombstone, you might enjoy this novel.
Incidentally, as film adaptations go, I recommend John Ford’s masterful My Darling Clementine.
In this case, the filmmaker wisely decided history wasn’t compelling enough, and produced a heavily fictionalized version that made no serious attempt at accuracy.
If you want to turn Wyatt Earp into a western version of the Greek hero, that’s what you have to do: fictionalize.
Originally written back in the 1930's when the author spoke to Earp's surviving friends, relatives and acquaintances, this is kind of true action-adventure biography that just couldn't be written now.
It is pointless to speculate about how accurate or exaggerated the stories and anecdotes presented here are.
My dad bought this edition when it was published in the '50's and I know it made a huge impression on him - I remember him telling me some of the stories twenty years later when the western had become unfashionable.
Interesting but slow.
Very interesting book on his life. Clarifying a lot about his life. An enjoyable read.
He was, in short, a brave but rather ordinary man of his time who knew right from wrong, but like so many before and since, found it easier to have a philosophy than to live by one.As to the book, it purports to be the true, complete, and unabridged biography of one of the White Knights of the American west, written with the assistance of said White Knight, a man who put his life on the line every day to ensure that shopkeepers and homesteaders could live free of fear in an untamed land.
In 1996 I visited Tombstone, Ariz., 30 miles from the Mexican border and scene of Earp's 1881 OK Corral gunfight, to tell Twain's frontier journalism tales and dedicate the Tombstone Epitaph newspaper office as a Historic Site in Journalism.
Stuart Lake's own findings backed the Earp narrative 50 years later but would be unlikely to resolve their debate, as he was punching up Earp's unpublished autobiography to duel with Billy Breakenridge's unflattering "Helldorado." Lake is charged with embellishment, and his prose certainly shows plenty of embroidery: Boot Hill victims are "buried with their footgear in place," and there's no need for horse or jail when words like cayuse or calaboose are available.
Newspaper prose of the day was just as purple though, and twice as opinionated.
This is one of those books I picked up for information, but ended up loving.
Lake interviewed every one he could find who knew Earp as well as Earp himself.
I know that the book has been questioned by (usually) non-professional history buffs who find something to pick at then frame a theory that usually discredits Earp.
Either a lot of people lied to Lake, or these revisionists are silly.
All recorded history is something of a creative act, and I'm sure this is no exception, but the book seems more solid than its reputation suggests.
For a long time this book was thought to be the best biography of Wyatt Earp. Shoot, the author interviewed the legendary lawman, so it had to be the straight poop on Earp.Then, as others researched the life of Earp, they found many inaccurate accounts as presented in the book. After awhile, it was discovered that Earp died before the author could finish his book. So, then he interviewed Earp's wife, Josie. Researchers found that most of Josie's accounts were circumspect.All-in-all, the book is short on factual information and long on mythology.
Wonderful book. A good place to start a study of the old west. Then move on to the many more recent excellently researched books to separate the fact and fiction in Lake. Much of this book has been found to be absolutely true.The quotes attributed to Earp, however, have been shown to be made up by Lake.Lake later admitted that Earp was very difficult to interview.He said Earp was" delightfully laconic" and he had to pry every word from him.
I picked up a 1950s copy in a used bookstore. The price printed on the cover is 35 cents. The book is old a just shy of falling apart. I didn't have great expectations but found the writing surprisingly good! I would recommend it to any reader with an interest in western literature and/or Wyatt Earp fans.
Wyatt Earp was an amazing fellow, and the basis of this book is a series of interviews with Mr. Earp in the late 1920's before his demise as well as documents and statements from people who witnessed the events. The book is a classic. Loved it.
I'm a big fan of the movie Tombstone, so I wanted to read this. What a story! What a legend! Thank you for writing it, Mr. Lake. I'm afraid you're as well know in death as in life, Mr. Earp, though it's true you'd probably really like some peace.
I found this book dry and hard to read. This man led an exciting and interesting life, but you wouldn't know it from this book!
Read this many years ago when I was in the Army. This is a quintessential must read for the cowboy/country reader. More than just a view of the legend. Entertaining and satisfying.
Very good read although I'm willing to bet it isn't very historically accurate.
great book
One of the best biographies of the western lawman there is. While some of the accounts in this book are disputed, it gives you a very good feel of Wyatt Earp and the world that he lived in.
