https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/765346.Writing_and_Difference
I do not deign to state Derrida’s theses; only to indicate a topos of each.For better direction-giving, please do not skip Alan Bass’ “Translator’s Introduction.”“Force and Signification” -- A critique of a certain manner of structuralist literary criticism, pointing out a certain failure of presumption to have escaped metaphysical presuppositions.“Cogito and the History of Madness” -- Through a close reading of a passage from Descartes which Foucault wished to use to demonstrate that social structures excluded mad and insane individuals at the same historical nexus as Descartes wanted to exclude the question of madness from philosophy, Derrida shows that Descartes did precisely the opposite; that madness was the very center of his method of radical doubt.“Edmond Jabès and the Question of the Book” -- A mediation on the work of Jabès which would seem to parallel Heidegger’s own thinking with the the poet Hölderlin.“Violence and Metaphysics: An Essay on the Thought of Emmanuel Levinas” -- Levinas, in addition to the Germans I enumerated above, is of central importance to Derrida’s thinking, and is second only perhaps to Heidegger for difficulty and importance.
What is it to read Derrida?
Derrida presents his own "readings" of reading, but then what do I read?
I bought this book- which itself is a negation of buying, an erasure of "that which is not bought"- in order to get to grips with Der-rida who I'd always-already had trouble understanding.
I'd read two introductory texts that I thought (or "thought I", the presupposition of the presence of I in thought, and thought in I, an erasure of the thought-i (thought-eye, as in seeing or being seen, as an eye never sees itself)) would give me a nice solid grounding (to be ground-ed, an inversion of flight, of distance).
I remember a whole paragraph of differance where he is basically saying "the a and e difference is only detected in writing, not speech." It really takes a genius to find 20 lines of text to explain that concept.
When I first began reading him I thought he at least had something to say that I was too feeble minded to understand, but Derrida has been criticized by many academics who are much smarter than I.
I just look forward to the day when Derrida falls out of fashion and hipster English majors stop pretending they're cool by drooling all over him.
There are ideas all over the place in this volume of twelve essays, but nearly all of them take the form of a discourse between Derrida and his chosen text: Foucault, Edmond Jabes, Emmanuel Levinas, Husserl, Bataille, Freud, Antonin Artaud, and Levi-Strauss are among the subjects.
It's a new way of thinking of things that questions the foundations of what's come before, what Derrida at one point calls the end of the book (finite and meaningful) and the beginning of the text).I thought it was interesting that his essays in here about literature and theater differed quite a bit in tone and structure (!) from those that were more traditionally philosophical.
`Writing and Difference,' is of course a difficult text, and analytic philosophers don't even bother with it, though that may be their greatest mistake, for Derrida attempts (and not without success) to demonstrate that the notion of purely objective, enlightened truth seeking is an impossibility.
In it, Derrida argues that Foucault's book does not address the Cartesian notion of the Cogito adequately in the History of Madness, and that Foucault ultimately relies on the same principles of the enlightenment while attempting to expose the dynamics of its power simultaneously.
`Writing and Difference' is an important collection of critical texts for 20th century philosophy, and it should remain an important work for many ages to come.
من أصعب الكتب التي قرأتها مؤخراً، لأنه كتاب موغل في التعقيد أولاً ولأنه يحمل فكرة جديدة يصعب فهمها ب
كتابٌ صعبٌ لدريدا مررتُ على فصولِه الأخيرةِ مرورًا سريعا إلى حد أنني اطلعتُ على الكتابِ ولم أقرأْه ب
It's frustrating to know that there's something out there in the English language that's completely out of my grasp .WHAT THE FUCK
Ogni tanto lo riprendo in mano, non ci capisco nulla e penso sempre di più che non sia colpa mia.
I had a class that Derrida guest lectured at right before he passed away. He was still thinking. That should have been his epitaph.
The abstract art of modern philosophy.
Self-indulgent (others say playful), unnecessarily digressive and round-about----the actual conceptual depth of what is conveyed, while it was surely groundbreaking, can be stated in terms much simpler than Derrida's.
Derrida is a cultural hero to many and the gravitational mass of the cult that surrounds him has bent the light in the eyes of those who adulate a man that can do no wrong.I once heard Derrida give a lecture in Auckland on the concept of mercy as related to "merci", and it was 3 hours long.
I thoroughly enjoyed this stimulating work. It may not be a light read, and it will certainly require a more careful examination before I can give any considered opinion on much of its content. However, I was consistently fascinated by what I read, and I would recommend it.
At the end of the day Derrida is a little out of reach for the ordinary person, which is a shame.Before reading this collection of essays I had only read some of Derrida's longer works.
Though I still think Of Grammatology is the easiest to read conceptually, the essays here allow the reader to connect with Derrida on a level not possible in the longer works.
It's not that I begrudge Derrida using the works of others as a launching pad for his own writing; it's just that he makes it damnably hard to understand what he has to add to the conversation.
وَلَوْ أَنَّمَا فِي الْأَرْضِ مِن شَجَرَةٍ أَقْلَامٌ وَالْبَحْرُ يَمُدُّهُ مِن بَعْدِهِ سَبْعَةُ أَبْحُرٍ مَّا نَفِدَتْ كَلِمَاتُ اللَّهِ ۗ إِنَّ اللَّهَ عَزِيزٌ حَكِيمٌ (27)  لذلك نحس تحت لغة الكاتب الأصيل هذه الحركة التب تحاول سحب الكلام الملفوظ ك" الزفير" .لذلك كتاب مثل فرجينيا ولف وفوكنر وت.س اليوت كانو علي وعي بان "الكتاب" لا يوجد وأن ثمة للأبد كتب ينكسر فيها معني عالم غير مُفكر فيه من قبل ذات واعية قادرة  على المعني ان ينتظر ان يقال او ان -يكتب ،حتي يسكن نفسه ويصبح مايكونه باختلافه عن نفسه
وَلَوْ أَنَّمَا فِي الْأَرْضِ مِن شَجَرَةٍ أَقْلَامٌ وَالْبَحْرُ يَمُدُّهُ مِن بَعْدِهِ سَبْعَةُ أَبْحُرٍ مَّا نَفِدَتْ كَلِمَاتُ اللَّهِ ۗ إِنَّ اللَّهَ عَزِيزٌ حَكِيمٌ (27)
لذلك نحس تحت لغة الكاتب الأصيل هذه الحركة التب تحاول سحب الكلام الملفوظ ك" الزفير" .لذلك كتاب مثل فرجينيا ولف وفوكنر وت.س اليوت كانو علي وعي بان "الكتاب" لا يوجد وأن ثمة للأبد كتب ينكسر فيها معني عالم غير مُفكر فيه من قبل ذات واعية قادرة
على المعني ان ينتظر ان يقال او ان -يكتب ،حتي يسكن نفسه ويصبح مايكونه باختلافه عن نفسه فالوجود دائما سابق للكتابة 
Lenta agonía hacia la fascinación. Le daría un 4,5, un 5 no por lo de lenta y agonía.
The structural nature of Western thought.
He says:“the concept of structure and even the word “structure” it self are as old as the episteme that is to say as old as western science and western philosophy and their roots thrust deep into the soil of ordinary language, into whose deepest recesses the episteme plunges in order to gather them up and to make them part of itself in a metaphorical displacement.
This is why classical thought concerning structure could say that the center is, paradoxically, within the structure and outside it.” (Derrida, W&D, pg 279, pa II) Now at this point we are talking epistemology and arguably western metaphysics…
I was actually given the book like 12 years ago and had almost no interest in it after reading two essays.
Then I read through the rest of the book in about two weeks.If you're interested, Derrida's whole approach is basically to take a piece of writing and say "Well now, this whole thing is just bullshit." And when he says that everything everyone is talking about is bullshit he means it as a compliment.
Characters in a book could act immorally, but the whole work would be moral.
Okay...just finished it last night. First of all. if you are not a fan- do not read this book. haha. Secondly, if you're still not really sure what linguistic deconstruction is all about, the first half of this book would be a good introduction to Derrida's philosophy. Thirdly, this book is awesome! While it is not as in depth as some of his other works, it is still a refreshing read if you're interested in deconstruction.
An absolute must for any Derrida reader (which is to infer an absolute must absolutely). Also a good entry into Derrida, I guess. For is there any real entry into a deferring motion that has no real beginning or end as it slips within and without of the metaphysical closure? On a personal level, I enjoyed the "Violence and Metaphysics" essay the most.
Started it today and decided I don't want to read it. Read a dozen pages and didn't understand a single thought. Maybe I'm just not fit for the job :)
most well known for 'structure, sign, & play,' but contains otherwise some great little gems on hegel, foucault, levinas, husserl, inter alia.
Bazı gazetelerin "felsefeye getirdiği yapısökümcülük yaklaşımıyla çığırlar açmış kendisi de pek tarif edemese de, edebiyattan sinemaya, mimariye bir çok alanda kullanılmıştır" ifadesi* her ne kadar kötü ise de durumu özetler, "Hiçbir metin, özünden bağımsız değildir" yaklaşımı özellikle edebiyat ve sinema eleştirmenlerinin biraz daha yaratıcı metin okumalarına yol açmışsa da, günümüzde metin okumanın kendisinin toplumsal bir analiz alanına kayması artık bayma noktasına gelmiştir.
Örneğin, dizi yorumları buna bir örnektir, bu dizilerdeki metinler üzerinden yapısökümcülük aracılığı ile koca koca tahliller çıkar ki**, senaristin bile "ulan sevgiliyle kavga ettik böyle bişi yazdık aceleden ama meğer ne yazmışım teyyyyy" demesine yol açmaktadır.
Still, it's an incredibly demanding work, not necessarily because of it's style (I thoroughly enjoy the way Derrida writes), but because of how much assumed knowledge each essay takes for granted on the part of the reader.
With a working knowledge of the points of reference however, Writing and Difference is a truly exhilarating work of philosophy (Derrida might prefer "philosophy", scare quotes and all - but luckily, one of the lessons of W&D is that authorial intention isn't all that it's cracked up to be...).
No arche, no telos, only Writing.
hmm do i like this more than *of grammatology*?
i like the shorter sentences.
i mean, as his classic intervention can become classic, of course; but more directly as the aporia difference produces is the precondition of the institutions he interrogates.
i mean the problem is hegelian: trying to resist one only conforms.
the durability of g.w.f. hegel is not to be fucked with.
you think you're beyond metaphysics?
think again.
fucking secular humanism, man.
there's a jumble of authors i now want to get into thanks to derrida: more levinas, some blanchot and definitely artaud, and ugh heidegger...
i want to see what they're doing through derrida's eyes.
Interesting to compare the opening essay with "Sign, Structure and Play," as both are critiques of structuralism using Nietzsche as base. The difference being: the earlier essay is still using the Nietzsche of Deleuze, while the latter is wholly Derrida. So you get a metaphysical and extra-textual force which undergrids the possibility of structure or you get the textual play of signifiers. And after the opening essay, Derrida abandons any mention of force. It's no wonder the pieces on Bataille and Artaud are so bloodless as compared to their place in Anti-Oedipus.
Postmodernistelerin piri.Ona göre Tarih bilimi edebiyata yakın,bu nedenle bilimsel kimliği sorgulanmalı.Herşey metindir ve metindeki dil gerçekliği belirler diyor kendileri.Haklılık payı var ama kanımca tarih bir bilimdir,evet metindeki dil ve tarihçinin ideolojik duruşu gerçekliği belirler fakat bu tarihin bilim olmadığı anlamına gelmez.Sadece nesnellik sorunumuz var.Misal;Bir sırp'ın Osmanlı'ya bakışı ile bir Boşnak'ın bakışı çok farklı.
I was feeling pretty smart because I enjoy Derrida's social and political commentary. And then I dipped into his theory on language. I was perpetually lost. So I sat in the lost-ness and dug out little serviceable fragments, like:"it is necessary still to inhabit the metaphor in ruins, to dress oneself in tradition’s shred and the devil’s patches"Lovely, but shred and patches are all I'm left with.
re-checked this out after giving up on it the first time-- love the chapter on jabes, but the chapter on foucault leaves a funky taste in my mouth-- and there is still a lot in here i'm going to need to come back to later (for example, i can't even begin to read derrida's reading of bataille's reading of hegel when i haven't yet read any hegel...)
Writing and Difference - yeah, baby, yeah! Be prepared to get your analytical magnifying glass out. Probably worth a weekend of head scratching. Derrida is a good name to drop at the proverbial cocktail party :)
Finally, I can finish this book. The book that contain its chapter from another philosopher and Derrida has commented, as usual he re-read and did some his work to deconstruct each the philosopher propositions.I will write further review on the paper later.
