https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41951.Scarlet_Feather

This book promises that I will be "laughing and crying with Cathy, Tom and all their friends".
Well, I was bored to tears if that counts?Cathy and Tom, the main characters are clueless, stupid and completely lack the ability to stand up for themselves.
Sorry, but I think that would require some sort of emotional bond with the characters.I think I might have been able to enjoy this book a bit if it wasn't so completely serious.
You must think Deep and Meaningfull thoughts about life and relationships!
Because in real and meaningfull relationships communication is unnecessary!
I was a little nervous at the beginning of this book when more and more characters were added to the story.
I was wondering if I should pull out an index card to keep track of them all.
Well, Binchy does such a great job telling her story and developing her characters, no need for the index card.
I absolutely adored this book.
This has now become a rare gem in my library.
Although there are several characters, the main one, Cathy, is the focal point.
It’s been a while since I’ve read a Binchy and oh!
How I’ve missed her.
Set over a period of one year, Scarlet Feather is a novel featuring Cathy Scarlet and Tom Feather, who open a catering company together.
Neil's family also plays an important part in the novel, especially his cousin Walter, and Maud and Simon, Walter's neglected 8-year-old brother and sister.
By the end of the year, each character's life had changed, many in ways they never would have imagined.
Muttie, Maud and Simon are the characters that stood out the most to me.
I do like the way the novel is set over the period of a year, it's amazing how much life can change in a year.
This is probably the 3rd or 4th book by Maeve Binchy that I've read...
I read her books when I was in college and I have really loved her writing...
She writes these intricate stories that involve a lot of characters and several story lines...
they usually end up intertwined at the end in surprizing ways...
The beginning of the book was slow because there were so many story lines to set up...
There were story lines that I thought were going to have a big dramatic ending that fizzled out at the end...
I have read many Maeve Binchy books, and I have to say I haven't met one I didn't like. I decided to just pick one, because this one had characters that were repeated in other novels. Quentins, Nights of Rain and Stars, Heart and Soul, Evening Class, Minding Frankie. I love seeing the characters reappear, not as primary, but as secondary in other stories. Ms. Binchy's characters are her real strength, because they always feels like friends. And of course, the setting in Ireland (also Italy, Greece, London) appeals to my wonderlust.
There are a couple of writers that I read anything they write, and Maeve Binchy is one of those readers.
What I enjoy also in this book is you witness the growth and development of personalities.
my favorite side characters in this read are the twins and Walter.Not of the plot is revealed, but I do believe that you will be drawn in before you have completed reading the first chapter.This is the second time I have read Scarlet Feather and read 3 is in the future.
If Ms. Binchy write a travel book, I am definitely getting a copy!So this is me, not the best review writer, signing off.
3.5***Cathy Scarlet and Tom Feather met in culinary school and became fast friends.
They know it will be hard work but they are ready to pursue their dream, and with the support of friends and family they feel sure they will succeed.Binchy excels at writing ensemble pieces that show ordinary people in some extraordinary circumstances.
This novel covers a year in the lives of Cathy, Tom, their life partners, parents, employees, friends and family.
The rest of the ensemble cast is unevenly drawn … Cathy’s parents have a fairly significant role and are pretty complete, but Tom’s parents are rarely seen and his mother, in particular, is somewhat of a caricature.
🎶I like big books, and I cannot lie🎶
I loved this book from Page 1 to the last. It couldn't make you feel any cosier or warm your heart any better.
Scarlet Feather catering company and Tom and Cathy, and Simon and Maud are in 'Quentin's', so I was really excited to read this book and find out how it all began.
Lots of funny moments, but quite a bit of the darker side of life too.My favourite characters, besides Tom and Cathy, were Simon and Maud.
A charming tale of Tom Feather and Cathy Scarlet, friends and business partners trying to get their 
This is the story of two people who start a catering business called Scarlet Feather and all of the goings on of the people in their life and how that affects their business.
I just love this author because she just tells a story about people's lives and their thoughts and I find myself ingulged in their world the whole time I'm reading the book.
It also made me think about the situation for children in foster homes and how we sometimes miss what is going on right in front of us because we're off trying to save the world.
A visit in another world, colourful, funny, touching. Can't help getting involved and hoping that the protagonists survive and thrive in the turmoil. Slightly hindered by the numerous point of view/ voice changes. I'll read more of her books. Good escapism.

Reading Maeve Binchy novels is like taking a vacation. Scarlet Feather is full of rich characters and lovely Irish settings taking the reader from their comfy chair to Dublin. One of Maeve's best.
Slow to start and sad in places, Maeve Binchy always makes her characters so interesting and real. Enjoyable.
I forgot that I finished this book. I lovr Maeve Binchy, it was a nice lecture...
It has been a long time since I dug into a Binchy novel and although I have had a copy of Scarlet Feather sitting on my bookshelves, I had not gotten around to reading it.
Whoops!) Scarlet Feather is the story of Cathy Scarlet and Tom Feather and their friends and family.
I suppose Tom's family needed to be in the book too, but they were lacking development and didn't add much to the story.
Circle of Friends and Evening Class remain my favorites out of the Binchy books I have read, but I did like the foodie frame of the story in Scarlet Feather.
The book follows their stories (Cathy and her attorney husband, Neil; Tom and his want to be model girlfriend, Marcella) and the rest of their families.
Cathy married into a really wealthy family with a lot of demons and her parents end up taking care of Simon and Maude, Neil's 10 year old cousins.
I really liked Cathy and Tom and got easily invested in their stories.
HOWEVER, the book had a ton of characters and it jumped around perspectives a lot.
I also didn't really like the ending.
And Scarlet Feather did not disappoint in the "feels like home" category.Scarlet Feather is a story about Cathy Scarlet and Tom Feather starting their own catering business.
I liked reading about the challenges they faced and how much effort they all exerted to keep the business going.
Furthermore, similar to another Maeve Binchy book I've read (Quentins), the story also involves lives of many other people.
Aside from reading about Cathy, Tom and the Scarlet Feather's staff giving all their best for the business, the parts that I liked were those related to Cathy's nephew and niece.
I'd still read other Maeve Binchy books though because I like her style...
It’s about two partners in a catering business in their start-up year and their family, it sometimes went too far afield.
And Cathy Scarlett whose marriage is so empty, it seems so evident that Binchy will bring them together at the end, and she does in a very dissatisfying way with them sitting on the sofa in the back room of their business because they don’t want to go home to their empty flats.
So they sit commiserating and celebrating their past year of their business… and that’s it, that’s where she leaves it and us – flat!
this was the first audiobook i ever listened to on my work commute.
i loved it so much that i haven't been without an audiobook of some kind pretty much ever since.
she is the only narrator that i've ever gone out of my way to find books that she's read.
in this book, she manages to make distinct voices for at least a dozen or more different characters -- all slightly different variations of irish accents.
you know it's a good book when this time, on my second listen, i still gasped in indignation when outrageous things were done to the protagonist and i still got teary-eyed in the sappy bits.
3.5 starsCathy Scarlet and Tom Feather are friends and are trying to start a catering business in Dublin.
There is plenty going on, as this novel follows their lives for one year.
There are many characters, and the perspective goes back and forth amongst many of them, but somehow, they are pretty easy to keep straight.
I quite like that Binchy often has characters in multiple novels.
I enjoyed the book, but problems can be seen coming from a bit of a distance.
That is, I don’t think there are really any surprises in the book.

I'm a fan of Maeve Binchy, have been since I first encountered her books in our local library.
She writes about Ireland, her home, with great affection, and much of what she writes reminds me of my upbringing in Scotland.
Scarlet Feather is not the first or last of her books that I read, nor is it really her best.
But there's something about it that just drew me in and made me want to read it again.
I think it's the twins, Simon and Maude, and the way they interact with the other characters to bring out a variety of social and family issues that fascinated me.
This is one of many Maeve Binchy books that I have read.
Ms Binchy has a knack for building characters that fit into each other's stories.
If you read Quentin's you know exactly what I mean.
You find the main caharacter in one book as a minor character in another.
Ms Binchy builds what feels like whole communities and makes you want to know each and every character in every book.
Scarlet Feather is the story of a couple start a catering business, and before they have found a building for their business, you are wrapped up in a multistrand story filled wth likeable, believeable characters!
I just finished this book and if it wasn't 600 pages long, I'd open it back up and read it all over again. I loved this book. I've only ever read Tara Road, but I guess I'm about to read all of Maeve Binchy's books.
Cathy Scarlet and Tom Feather have big dreams of getting their catering company, Scarlet Feather, off the ground.
They face unexcited in-laws and partners who just don't understand.
Will they be able to follow their dreams?I've said this before but one of the things I like best about Maeve Binchy's books is that they tell really good character stories.
Cathy Scarlet is one of my favorite Binchy characters so far.
She's a big dreamer but has the ability to actually follow through in order to meet her goals.
She makes a lot of difficult decisions throughout the book and is very realistic.
I'm not sure why I liked this book so much. It wasn't a "big message" book, really, but it was charming. The appeal had something to do with how likeable the characters were, despite very obvious flaws. It had something to do with how the characters forgave each other their flaws and supported each other, regardless. It had something to do with the pluck shown by so many of the characters. The plot was unique, the characters were unique, and plot and message were compelling and uplifting.
