https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13497.A_Feast_for_Crows
still, this novel should stand tall as an excellent continuation of this amazing series.first and foremost, A Feast for Crows is A Story of the Women of Westeros.
i suppose the chapters set in Dorne could contribute to many readers' disengagement with this novel.
and i also appreciated how fallible Arianne Martell turned out to be: a girl unused to schemes but still scheming away, a seductress who fell in love, a woman loyal to her friends and disinterested in cruelty, an heiress and misguided leader-to-be, one whose time in the limelight approaches.Sansa/Alayne and Arya/Cat. sometimes a girl has to literally convince herself that she is someone else, simply to survive.

It told the story of “the War of the Five Kings.” Though it started slowly, it built to a fine ending, which included the shocking loss of Winterfell (home to many of our main characters) and the epic Battle of the Blackwater.
It featured all the hallmarks we’d come to expect from author George R.R. Martin – swordfights, detailed descriptions of food, casual misogyny, laughably crude sex scenes, shocking twists, major character deaths, and a humdinger of a cliffhanger – but those elements were heightened.
Instead, it’s 700 pages of B-side.The viewpoint characters in Crows (Martin’s story is told in the third-person limited, with chapters that alternate points-of-view among various characters) are mostly new to the spotlight.
There was that craziness that was the Weddings of Death, Tyrion killed his father, , Jon Snow finally got cool and is now Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, Arya continued to be a tiny BAMF, Bran looked like he was finally moving towards a real plot, and Daenerys decided to temporarily shelve her whole unleash-the-dogs-of-war plan and be a queen for a while.
Really guys, he's going to be interesting eventually.) and all the other cool characters that I totally ignored in this book and that you really wanted to read about.
I'm not quite sure what happened, here.As others have mentioned, Martin slows the pace of the story down considerably in this fourth installment of A Song of Ice and Fire, ostensibly writing this as the first half of a two-book volume, with a 3-5 year production time on each.
I was weary of these invented clichés before I even truly understood what they meant.By now, fans of the series thus far are used to the disturbing ubiquity of rape in Martin's world, but even that loses what little subtlety it had in this book, with at least two characters being described as "needing a hard raping" (another example of redundancy in Martin's writing...
(B+) 77% | GoodNotes: It’s about people on journeys, spread too thin over too many inconsequential perspectives, with too little of a pay-off.
The book was better than the first time around.
I didn't like the narrator on this one so it ruined it the first time around.
I still didn't love it but I was glad to have Arya & Brienne 😊 "Death is not the worst thing," the kindly man replied.
"It is His gift to us, an end to want and pain.
On the day that we are born the Many-Faced God sends each of us a dark angel to walk through life beside us.
When our sins and our sufferings grow too great to be borne, the angel takes us by the hand to
When our sins and our sufferings grow too great to be borne, the angel takes us by the hand to lead us to the nightlands, where the stars burn ever bright.
When you smell our candles burning, what does it make you think of, my child?" Winterfell, she might have said.
I do that a lot when I don't add books to my currently reading.
I think he would be a great narrator for other books but not this one and that's just my opinion.
Do you think the evil Cersei sounds like that or the awesome Brienne or even Jaime?
You see, I know many people who read these books and absolutely adore them.
I thought I had an obligation to warn you that I have heard of several imaginative plots that many of my fellow readers have dreamed up to get you to finish these books.
I've heard a few terribly distressing things along the lines of, "shoving a broadsword up his ass." I'm sure you can imagine the rest.Now while I don't think that people would employ such plans now, I do notice that these mental complexes seem to get worse over time.
(These people apparently think that such things will.)A sincere fan.
There weren't any huge battle sequences or weddings filled with bloodshed, but rather a lot of plotting.This book contained two of my favorite characters, Arya and Sansa, but there weren't enough chapters about them to satisfy me.
This one mainly followed Cersei and Jaime, along with quite a few side characters who we didn't see much of in the first three books.
I'm really interested to see what happens in the next book, but I'm already anxious for book six because I need to know what's happening with Arya and Cersei.
editSo I hear that Arya is actually in ADWD, along with a bit of Cersei and Jaime.
I have no doubt that the new characters, places and events will serve to further the plot.While hearing Cersei's viewpoint was somewhat enlightening, it got tiresome.
I would've liked to hear more about the Stark girls, but maybe next time.This book also introduced some new characters...and brought back some old ones.
I'm struggling to accept this particular twist.Mostly, I was disappointed to find many of my favorite characters noticeably absent in this book.
I longed to hear about what was going on with her and her dragons.
Like Daenerys, information on Tyrion was noticeably absent.
While I get this is probably the least popular book of the four, assuming we were to take a tally, I still feel GRRM is the best living fantasy author out there if you want tales that don't overuse archetypes and have complex characters and plots.
I've also listed the reasons not to choose him to make it fair b/c I know their are certain personalities who won't like this series: WHY TO READ GRRM (1) YOU ARE TIRED OF FORMULAIC FANTASY: good lad beats the dark lord against impossible odds; boy is the epitome of good; he and all his friends never die even though they go through great dangers .
I don’t know, maybe it’s because I was raised Catholic, or maybe it’s my sense of follow through or maybe just the fact that I’ve invested so much time in this damn series… whatever.
Yay.Okay, so the reason I’m grumpy is that it took me 480 pages to get into this.
If you’re even reading this review, it’s because you’ve invested as much time in this series as I have.)Then… THEN I come across this little gem: ‘”Hey, wait a minute!” some of you may be saying about now.
Another book as big as this one.Bastard.Okay, so I’m whining.
First, there is a conspicuous dearth of crows (as in Nightwatch or anything at or beyond the Wall).
Bran and that three-eyed crow?
It was easier to turn a blind eye to it in volumes where the action and characters were interesting but good luck with this one...At the end of the book one finds a note from the author excusing himself for having served up A Cauldron of Crap.
He insists he wrote more but his dog ate all the interesting chapters.
So many he had to cut the volume in half and keep the good stuff for a second installment.
There’s only one problem with this book, and that’s the point of view characters.
that’s a joke) two books of the series, and I mean massive.
I think she needed some point of view chapters, but what she didn’t need was a never-ending amount of them; it was just too many.
I think it’s far too late to add so many point of views into the series.
These are amongst interesting characters of the entire series, so there points of view saved the book.
I may complain about this book, but in reality it’s only because I love this series so much.
Sometimes so intruiging I did not want to stop reading, other times I wondered why in seven hells someone would bother wasting their time writing such pointless words.Here's the list of POV's from most to least liked:CerseiSansaAryaJamieSamwellArianne MartellAeron GreyjoyAsha GreyjoyAreo HotahArys OakheartVictarion GreyjoyBrienne of TarthArya:I've never been a big fan of Arya's chapters.
To me there was nothing more pointless in the whole series than her chapters.
It's not like there's not enough misery already.The Martells:While I always wanted to know more about Dorne, the chapters did not really add much to the big plot.
I feel like giving this book 3 stars is being harsh to my man, George Martin, but I'm trying to separate the truly great books in this series from the merely good ones.Bottom line: fans of the series waited too long for this and therefore were in a position of being impossible to please once this finally came out.
What the hell IS a groat?The interesting point of view structure of the previous books has been salted with an overabundance of "prologue" chapters that break with the structural traditions that George has already established.
R. Martin’s third Song of Ice and Fire book, A Storm of Swords was this epic Andre the Giant kegfest.
Many fans have lamented and complained about the fourth book, A Feast for Crows, first published in 2005.
A Feast of Crows is a darker, more brooding work and serves to further expand his world building, to more fully develop some of the other characters and to introduce some upcoming sub-plots.Fans first figured out that Martin was going off the beaten path when Eddard Stark went from 5’ 10 to 5’2.
“In the game of thrones, even the humblest pieces can have wills of their own.” 4.5 stars rounded up!Another fantastic instalment in the A Song of Ice and Fire series.
“How much can a crown be worth, when a crow can dine on a king?” Jaime and Cersei become estranged from one another, he is sent to reclaim lands for the crown while Cersei attempts to rule through her son, and remove his new Queen.
Sansa too has a new name, hiding in plain sight in the Eyrie.
There are also many other new POVs we experience including some of the Ironborn and the Dornish, which certainly brought different perspectives.
"I have a hole where my heart should be, she thought, and nowhere else to go."// God, this book. George R.R Martin writes so beautifully. Beginning this I did miss Tyrion's, Daenery's, and Jon's POVs, but this book was exceptional even without them. Cersi despite not liking her in the show I actually grew to love her parts. Especially her writing to Jaime for help and reading his response in turn had to be my favorite.
First of all, the last book, A Storm Of Swords, ended with a very large cliffhanger and I knew that it was a cliffhanger that wasn't going to be fully explained/explored in this volume.Additionally, I knew that in general the story was not going to feature the characters that I was most interested in (namely Daenerys, Theon, Tyrion, and especially the whole issue of Jon and the Night Watch).
When we see Jaime's one POV, though, we see that he thinks he is how Cersei sees him, but he hopes to become what Brienne believes him to be.
“History is a wheel, for the nature of man is fundamentally unchanging. What has happened before will perforce happen again.” I think this may be my favorite novel in the series. Not because it was the best but because I felt so connected to the story, more than I have ever felt before while reading this series. And while I can admit that the plot was poorer in comparison with its predecessors and there weren't all of the characters we've grown accustomed to reading about, I still feel like Mr.
The story, despite the absence of some of the characters, such as Tyrion, Daenerys & Jon, was still just as riveting and I think that was principally because of the fact that the plot twists and revelations were scattered throughout the book so it actually kept me on the edge and had me intrigued the entire time.In addition to Cersei, there's also quite lots of Jaime and I clearly saw him changing throughout the entire novel, from the tiny bits of details regarding how his brain works to the fact that he finally distances himself from Cersei and sees her for what she really is.
1.) A Game of Thrones ★★★★★2.) A Clash of Kings ★★★★★3.) A Storm of Swords ★★★★★#readASOIAF Read-Along - Hosted by Riley from Riley Marie, Elizabeth from Liz Loves Literature, and Kayla from BOOKadoodles. ♥  “In the game of thrones, even the humblest pieces can have wills of their own. Sometimes they refuse to make the moves you've planned for them.”  A Feast for Crows is my least favorite in this series, but this prologue and ending chapter give me life, I swear. GRRM is such a genius and if yo
If you have not read the first four books in this series, and do not want to get spoiled, please do not read this portion of my review!At this point in the story, so much is happening, I think I'm just going to break down the major plot lines and how I, personally, feel about them:Arya and the Many-Faced God - Again, I can't emphasize enough how amazing Alt Shift X's video is, and how informative it was for me during this reread.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Unimportant Sub-Plots: "A Feast for Crows" by George R.
R. MartinThe thing that astonishes me, continually, is the fans who cannot see it and, in some cases, cannot even perceive that the quality has fallen off disastrously as he got mired in unimportant sub-plots.
This guy was head director.
He was good at certain things but not all the things he had to do (such as managing people) as head director.
Work piled up and up and his desk was a vast pile of papers which stuff disappeared into.
I know "winter is coming," but this book honestly felt more like a Spring clean.A story of such lengths as the epic A Song of Ice and Fire has to have down time and much of A Feast for Crows is down time.
The first half of books usually include a lot of house keeping.
However, I gave the previous three books in the series four stars each and since I didn't like this one quite as much as them, I had to show it somehow.
And now here's the part I found funny...Martin said he hoped for the next book after this one to be published in about a year.
At this point, Jaime Lannister is hot on the heels of Arya, Jon Snow, and Tyrion as my favorite character.
I still don't care about Sansa or Catelyn Stark.The bits with the Iron Isles and Dorne got a little wearisome, feeling like Martin might have wanted to keep the biscuit wheels on his gravy train for a little while longer.
Still, I liked where things went despite not involving any of my favorite characters.It's a testament to Martin's skill that he has made me care about the Lannister twins, first Jaime and now Cercei.
This book was fantastic.
I can't wait until after I read A Dance with Dragons.
Then I can join the hordes of people standing outside GRRM's house, looking at their watches and tapping their feet impatiently while they wait for the 6th book in the series.
I haven't experienced that wait yet.
I was talking about the awesomeness.
So here are some things, in random order, that I found awesome: New characters introducedNew character POVsThe sheer brutality and badassity of some of the charactersThe changes in some of the charactersThe unexpectedness of the strange twists that come aboutThe plotThe historyThe everything.
This meant that when the book finally arrived five years after A Storm of Swords, many of the series’ best characters barely appeared or did not appear at all.
As it turned out, readers of the series would have to wait another five and a half years to read about them.
I read Storm of Swords shortly after it was released, so I remember that long wait and the feelings of frustration that surrounded A Feast for Crows when it first came out.
I had been warned about this book being the least gripping in the series(I decided to finish it in less than a month or I'm sure I would have ended up reading chapter summaries).
Of course that worked perfectly fine with me because I hate heavy books (they end up falling on my face-seriously it's dangerous and distracting).
Yes some chapters were rather boring but I still believe Martin gave them to us for good reason.
We see some real character development there.My least favourite chapters were those of Dorne and the Iron islands and some of Brienne's (towards the end they got much better).
It makes me love her mooooore.THINGS I DIDN'T LIKE AND MADE ME GRIMACE:+ All the excess narrators.
I think Asha is awesome but she didn't even have barely any POV time and omg, every time I had to sit through a Priest chapter, I wanted to STAB MYSELF WITH DRIFT WOOD OR SOMETHING AGH.
Jon is like awful.
Boo Jon. BOO.....okay, but I did love SO MANY THINGS!
Normally I go through the characters, but this time I'm just going to make a list of things I loved!STUFF I AM SQUEEING OVER BECAUSE IT EXCITES ME SO MUCH:+ THE SERIES IN GENERAL!!
