https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/188497.Positive_Discipline
In this book, Jane Nelson makes it clear just what the results of "Punishment" are, and how we can guide and teach our children with kindness but firmness to achieve the results we really want.
It is a great source for really useful tools we can use as parents and teachers to guide our children in thier journey through life.
******I have to add a note here****** Jane Nelsen advocates time-out for all ages of children, including babies.
The tools she provides in this book are great for children over the age of 6.
Lots of core messages resonate strongly -- A misbehaving child is a discouraged child-- Children simply want belonging and significance-- It is wrong to think that we must make children feel worse in order to do better.And I could go on.
One challenge with a book like this is that you will still hunger for exactly the right words to use in your own situation.
I've read it all the way through and still struggle for the right/approrpaite message for the moment.
They do provide nice leads, though, and I understand offer too a book focused on solutions -- which I will order now.
This is an interesting book on discipline using the Adlerian approach. It's a different way of thinking about raising kids than most people do naturally. It encourages parents and teachers to stop adding shame, blame, and pain to kids' misbehavior because that doesn't achieve the long-term results in character that parents have as the goal for their kids. I recommend this book--there's a whole series of them for all different life situations: one for preschoolers, one for classrooms, one for single parents....
I'm a yeller. It's one of the things I hate about myself as a parent. But this book has legitimately helped me shift away from my crazytown.
Would you like to hug your child instead of punishing him and in the process teach him to be a capable, confident problem solver?
Do you know why your child acts up and whether your response only makes the situation worse.Dr Nelsen and her colleagues have discovered an approach to parenting (and perhaps I'm biased because for me this book is much broader than just discipline) that emphasizes your relationship with your child as the cornerstone of the child's (and your personal) development.
She teaches discipline without punishment and while I haven't gotten there yet, she's convinced me it may be possible with some children.
On the other hand, when I am gently handled and can counsel with someone who truly loves me and wants what's best for me, I can safely talk through the situation to figure out a better way to handle things.
I am trying these new ways in my home, and the results?
Well, Jane Nelson always says when first implementing these new ways, that it gets worse before it gets better because they will test it.
But I have seen greater cooperation and more love, consideration, compassion, and willingness in our home.
In my opinion, this is the most important book on parenting one can read. The tools is provides you with, the mindset it imparts will assist you in having a great relationship with your children as well as providing them with the firm and loving discipline that is needed. I highly recommend reading this book before reading any other parenting book. It won't cover every situation, but it will give you a complete set of parenting tools as well as excellent guidance to look for help.
I saw her copying the cover and asked her what she was doing and she replied that she liked it.
When I inquired why, she told me that I don't "yell" as much since I started reading it.
So, I asked why she was copying the cover, I already have and am reading the book.
She replied,"It's for daddy, so he'll read it." We have not implemented much at all yet, but just being mindful that I don't have to "make her feel bad to do better" has already dramatically improved the family dynamic.
This belief is based on seven core principles in the book:* The child is capable of coping and finding a solution* The child is an important part of a primary relationship* The child has control over what happens to him or her* The child should cultivate strong intrapersonal skills* The child should cultivate strong interpersonal skills* The child should be able to respond to the limits and limitations of everyday life* The child needs strong judgment and moral skills.In short, the aim of Positive Discipline is "winning children over" rather than "winning over children." Misbehavior on the part of the child should be dealt with logical consequences - solutions, not retribution.
I borrowed this from the library; now I'm going to buy it so I can highlight and return to it often.
I can do better at setting expectations in advance, intervening when things are tense and processing/guiding learning after restoring a strong emotional connection with my children.
Punishment only helps in the short run and rarely if ever in the long run.–The goal of parenting is to help children develop sound judgement, confidence and a self-concept that will help them succeed in life.
–It's a mistaken (and dangerous) notion that you help children do better by making them feel worse.–A misbehaving child is a discouraged child.
develop healthy relationships with children.
Set expectations in advance.
Encourage children to participate in setting expectations.
I probably would have gotten more from this book if I didn't teach lower elementary students in a departmentalized setting. I can adapt the activities for the little people, but the daily circle routine won't work well for us.
Great book, I learned a lot, and the strategies are already very helpful.
Positive Discipline is designed to have mutual respect, see a misbehaving child as a discouraged child, use encouragement as the basic motivator, and teach life skills.
I really felt like this is a much better, peaceful way to discipline where your child will actually learn life lessons rather than just getting punished.
This has given me a new way to look at discipline and I hope I can continue to remember to use these concepts, b/c I know when I do there is more love and peace in our home.
I have a whole library of parenting books, but this one I actually read for a seminar I took at the kids school and I am not sure if that is what made the difference or not, but I thought this book was brilliant.
I am testing out almost all the tools outlined in this book and since my kids are old enough I'm explaining that this is what i am doing, The strategies really seem to be working to keep things positive.
This is by far the best parenting book I have ever read.
I read it in conjunction with taking the class, which I highly recommend.
I now know what I need to work on to achieve a different outcome.
It takes so much pressure off of me to know that if I blow it, I can always go back to my child later and try again.
I have used several of the techniques thus far and they really do work.
And if one doesn't work on that particular child, I try another.
Well, I have read a lot of parenting books...
maybe by the time I have read 50 I'll be an "ideal parent" for my children!
I find this parenting theory really resonates with how I feel parenting should be...
a type of parenting that is very respectful and unlikely to leave children with damage or baggage from being overly permissive or strict or overly "child-centered" or whatever else!Now that's the best thing about substitute teaching high school...
I can read a book...
I have been wanting to finish this one for a long time but have only made baby steps progress until today.
This book has a really great philosophy, although it becomes a little repetitive. The chapters on eating and potty training could have been combined because the philosophy is the same: your child will figure it out. Have empathy for their growing pains. Despite the length, I enjoyed the author's philosophy and research very much. It is a great read for anyone raising a toddler to help them understand what life is like for them.
Took a while to read, but this is a great book for parents (and teachers too). I wouldn't necessarily recommend it before having kids, but as our son is now 4 so many of the examples begin to ring true. You can clearly see how your own biases and frustrations can translate into how you approach discipline for your child and this book really helps to re-frame the picture. Will have to read this again in the future to more fully incorporate some of the teaching involved. highly recommended!
This is like no other parenting book I've ever read. The parenting philosophies come closer to the way I WANT to parent than anything else. I just need to practice now. I have found that when I use the techniques discussed in this book, EVERYONE in my house is happier. Including me. This book came at the perfect juncture in my life. I feel like it was perhaps divine intervention that led me to this book.
A great parenting book with so many useful tools. I think I need to re-read this book because it was chalk full of great parenting ideas. I will have to retrain myself as a parent to raise my kids a little better.
This is one of my top three favorite parenting books. It teaches how to be a loving parent, a guide, and how to not need to blow your top or punish most of the time. I highly recommend this.
A must read for parents!
Really good one
I learned so much about logical consequences from this book. I also learned how to let children manage their conflicts in an effective and uplifting manner. This is a must read!
Now to implement the concepts. I'll definitely be re-reading this again.
must read for every parent
Good Book! I agree. It doesn't have to be a power struggle. Putting the decision of the outcome into the child's hands is key.
(Respect, concern for others, problems solving, accountability, contribution, cooperation)I found the “Mistaken Goal” chart really interesting, Nelsen suggests that these are four common causes of misbehavior in children.Mistaken Goals of Children1) Undue attention - I belong only when I am being noticed2) Power - I belong only when I am in control, or proving that no one else can boss me.3) Revenge - I am feeling hurt so I’ll hurt others4) Inadequacy - I don’t belong so I’ll convince everyone they shouldn’t expect anything of me.There are lists of strategies for each of these.
This child has decided, 'If I can't be the best or first, why try?'""Parents who agree on parenting methods create a cooperative atmosphere....when two sisters only 18 months apart are similar in characteristics, instead of opposites, we can guess that the parents created an atmosphere of cooperation rather than competition."Judy Moore, birth order & reading groups; moved a younger sibling up in a reading group, told him "I have every confidence in your ability to do well there;" he excelled"Why should John (a younger sibling) want to do anything for himself, including learning, if he had never had much experience with responsibility?"In one elementary school, a particularly difficult class, teachers found 85% of children in lower reading groups were younger siblings, displaying helplessness & seeking special attentionFor example, "Mark is an oldest child who could not stand to lose at games...Dad was contributing to Mark's attitude by always letting him win at chess b/c he didn't like to see Mark get upset and cry....Dad realized it was more important to allow Mark some experience with losing...
