https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/269362.The_Deep_Blue_Good_By
MacDonald's Travis McGee series, so I decided I'd start at the beginning, and bought the first couple of books in the series.
McGee is the only fully realized character in this book.
Nevertheless, MacDonald is clearly under the impression that McGee is a sensitive, sexy, and intelligent man who understands women and what they need, which only makes things creepier.Anyway, The Deep Blue Good-by is all about Travis McGee tracking down a thief and serial rapist named Junior Allen.
The plot could have been interesting, but because of McGee's attitude towards life and love, it ends up just being weird and creepy.Also, anyone named Travis who prefers to be called "Trav" is a fucking prick.
I had heard of the movie "Cape Fear", which was adapted from JDM's book The Executioners, but for some reason I knew nothing of his pulp fiction series about Travis McGee. One day I was having a conversation with my good friend and fellow GR member, Cathy DuPont, and she kept talking about this guy called Trav.
All McGee novel titles incorporate a colour, and the novels have essentially been written as one long story on the life and times of Travis, or Trav as he likes to be called.
While trying to pick up Junior’s trail McGee finds himself reluctantly cast as the savior and caregiver of Lois, a woman that Junior brutally assaulted and dominated to the point that she was total wreck in the aftermath.This first novel in the series sets the tone with MacDonald doing some sharp writing that works as both crime story and social commentary with Travis quietly rebelling against the consumerist and conformist culture he despises.
As usual, MacDonald writes it that McGee gets to have his cake and eat it too by engaging in a pity party that lets him play the wounded hero, and yet it’s sexual healing from Cathy Kerr that ultimately fixes him.
Published in 1964, The Deep Blue Good-by is the debut of Travis McGee, "Salvage Consultant" in south Florida who over the course of twenty-one novels--titled with every color in the spectrum save for "black" or "white"-- recovers missing items.
Until, finally, the restolen fortune became merely a means to an end, to come out and live the fantasies.If titles alone were enough, The Deep Blue Good-by would be one of my favorite all-time novels.
But there is too much Junior Allen seed around.Travis McGee respects Lois Atkinson, but where the novel sputters and stalls is her introduction.
Carl Hiaasen writes the introduction to this novel, and he is a great choice as both authors include in their books strong environmental and social militancy.I'm spending a lot of time on Travis before talking about plot and style, because I have a feeling I'm hooked on the series, in for the long run, and the narrator is the most important ingredient in such cases.
Junior Allen has sleazed his way into a fortune in stolen gems and the daughters of the man who they belonged to want them back.
Can Travis McGee get the gems back and take his cut?This is the first John D.
MacDonald book I've read and probably won't be the last.
Junior Allen is a first degree douche bag and a good villain.
The writing is really good and the characters of Travis and Junior are well done.Why only three stars?
I'll be tracking down the next Travis McGee book sooner or later.
Third Time's a Charm Cathy's First Love, StillFor anyone considering reading the Travis McGee series (first book published in 1964 with a total of 21 books in the series) this book should definitely be read first. It lays the ground work for who McGee really is, how he feels about society, women and Florida in general. These are important basics for reading the series since the character for me, is so very important.Reading the Long Blue Goodbye for me, was like seeing an old friend, no, I take
Cathy's First Love, StillFor anyone considering reading the Travis McGee series (first book published in 1964 with a total of 21 books in the series) this book should definitely be read first.
These are important basics for reading the series since the character for me, is so very important.Reading the Long Blue Goodbye for me, was like seeing an old friend, no, I take that back, an old lover and we parted ways amicability so many years ago but it’s good for him to be back in my hands.
[image error]Travis McGee...Salvager of Worthwhile Goods Including WomenA great blog D.
I like to read after finishing the book and blog to others reading Trav.
137)His main character, Travis McGee, is a romantic hero, loner, in fact "he who is alone," one man against the world, trying to stem or at least contain and limit its corrupting influence.His bad guy here ...is on a short rein.
144)Travis McGee sees through the people he meets psychiatrist-like, for instance this stewardess who has just unsuccessfully come on to him:The smile did not change and the eyes became slightly absent.
Sometimes.But when the bad guy encounters the women, he hooks them on sex, presumably the wrong kind, addictive and corrupting.
One of the interesting things about McGee is that he has plenty of opportunities for casual sex with beach bunnies ready to hand &, while he occasionally indulges, he does so without much enthusiasm, more like a man who drops by McDonalds to simply satisfy his hunger.
Of course he does find more meaningful relationships, but things rarely work out the way he plans.McGee is no James Bond, more like Paladin in "Have Gun Will Travel".
McGee can take care of himself & he's a pretty big guy, but he's no superman.
Some of McGee's observations of people are quite interesting & somewhat thought provoking.
Living aboard his poker game won house boat ‘The Busted Flush”, McGee’s standard operating procedure is to make money when he needs it by retrieving lost property for friends for half the value.In his opening novel, MacDonald also produced one of his best antagonists.
McGee helps recover a lost fortune in stolen goods to help a friend and Allen is the gold hoarding dragon who must first be bested.
This comparison to knights errant and romanticism is intentional, MacDonald has drawn McGee to be the last of the free romantics in a world growing increasingly more mechanized and impersonal.
The book's use of redemption through noir tropes would work better if every woman wasn't helpless and clueless and if McGee's prejudices were shoved in his face to be reckoned with, but what can you do?
Today it is 2016, when this book started the wildly successful series of briny mysteries it was 1964.
Plot in one sentence: Professional beach-bum/"Salvage Consultant" Travis McGee is hired by a shrinking violet to steal back some loot (originally stolen by her dearly departed jailbird daddy) from a sly brute with a weakness for luxury boats and rape.
Many other authors have considered MacDonald to be influential in their own work.Numerous silver screen adaptions of MacDonald's novels appear in the Hollywood and television lexicons: most notably the well know original and modern adaptation of MacDonald's The Executioners adapted into the movie: Cape Fear.
The lower ratings seem to come primarily as a protestation against the sexual exploits and objectification of women by the main character Travis McGee. These reviewers date the material as belonging to an age where the gender issues in one era are dated and in turn ascribe to modern day conventions social enlightenment and superiority and therefore this renders the McGee series unacceptable to such readers.
The Deep Blue Good-by is the first of that series.From my perspective, I see McGee as falling somewhere among Mike Hammer and Nate Heller with Philip Marlowe hardly in sight.
The Deep Blue Good-by would not have inspired me to read more.
He has only a general sense of what a fully formed McGee would be and how he should go about his work.Some examples of MacDonald’s prose:“Maybe I was despising that part of myself….What an astonishment these night thoughts would induce in the carefree companions of blithe Travis McGee, that big brown loose-jointed boat bum, that pale-eyed, wire-haired girl-seeker, iconoclast, disbeliever, argufier, that knuckly, scar-tissued reject from a structured society.”“This family was a circus act, balanced on a small platform atop a swaying pole, as the crowd goes ahhh, anticipating disaster.
It seems that the girlfriend was recently taken advantage of by an unscrupulous guy who was really after her father’s cache of some sort of fortune.
Our unscrupulous guy moved in on the daughter in order to gain the opportunity to search for the stash.
When he found it, he moved out, leaving the daughter in the same level of poverty that she was in before.
What made it even worse, it turned out that the opportunist was a physical abuser, and managed to leave the daughter in a worse condition than when he found her.
So no excuses that he was able to create the clichés later writers have to avoid!MacDonald starts off "in progress", as if Travis has been doing this for some time, and he sets Travis up as lazy, but also a man with a heart and a strong sense of justice.
Still, I'm going to enjoy reading more of his work...The StoryCathy has been morally violated by a ruthless man, and when she gets Travis McGee involved, he discovers more victims in even worse case.Lois Atkinson is at the end of her rope until Trav steps in and becomes even more determined to stop Junior Allen.The CharactersTravis McGee is a boat bum doing just enough to get by.
It was also the first Travis McGee novel that I have read.
The Deep Blue Good-By was published in 1964 and reading it I felt it.
Unlike most novels in this genre he is neither a police officer nor a private investigator; instead, he is a self-described "salvage consultant" who recovers others' property for a fee of 50%.
A fellow prisoner named Junior Allen shows up and manages to locate the treasure and steals it.
I found the Travis McGee character intriguing enough that I will probably read other novels in the series some day.
A man's got to do what a man's got to doEven when that means believing women are nothing more than objects of his sliding scale of deserved affection and taking advantage of those too weak or too kind or too grateful to say no.But then that's what everyone says about Travis McGee. What more can you say about the guy?He's a man of strong moral principles, full of arrogance and conceit, a man who dislikes the America of the sixties yet happily takes advantage of it.
There wasn't much for entertainment on base (we didn't have TV but we did have a movie about once a week) and by mid month my funds limited me to reading lots of my bunk mates paperbacks after he was through with them.
They were mostly Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer, Donald Hamilton's Matt Helm, Ian Fleming's James Bond and of course JDM's Travis McGee. These books and authors are fond memories and started me on my 50 plus years of reading adventures.
I look forward to re-reading those books as well as other authors of that era.
The Deep Blue Good-By introduces Travis McGee, a “salvage consultant” based out of his houseboat, The Busted Flush - which he won in a poker game - in Ft. Lauderdale.
He narrates his adventures and pontificates often – usually on women and the “declining” state of the world - and we pick up bits and pieces of his obscure history as the series progresses.The books follow – from the start – this formula.
(Current day authors – Carl Hiaasen, Stephen King and Robert Parker – even Kurt Vonnegut - just to name a few – love(d) this guy.)It has been a while – years in fact – since I’ve read a Travis McGee adventure.
I just began to re-read this series, and, how wonderful, I do not remember much from 15 or more years ago.
This was, I think, the first of the Travis McGee stories, published in 1964, and it still reads well today, although the series got even better as it went on, especially after Meyer's appearance.
Travis is a very flawed hero, but that is part of his appeal.
Some of his attitudes toward women are reprehensible by today's standards, but he always tries to rise to his understanding of male chivalry.
These stories are to enjoy at the surface.
THE DEEP BLUE GOOD-BY was my first experience with his writing and it enraptured me so hard that I almost requested a sabbatical at work to order and read his entire catalog.THE DEEP BLUE GOOD-BY is a crazy good psychological foray into the world of domestic abuse, a theme that has been beaten into the ground by lesser writing talents, but MacDonald gives this extremely important social issue the platform it deserves in fiction by drawing a magnetic and mysterious antagonist and complex victims that gravitated towards one another for gripping and plausible reasons.John D.
In this first addition Travis try's to help a young girl find her sadistic ex-boyfriend who stole a fortune that had been buried on the families property for years.I enjoy this series because it returns us to the simpler days before the complications of modern technology.
A fast action mystery series with grit, well developed characters and captivating stories.
John MacDonald's writing has been touted and emulated by some of the best writers of our day and when coupled with Robert Petkoff's articulate narration produces an impressive combination.
Another Audible Daily Deal I enjoyed.
MacDonald, or even my first Travis McGee, but it is the first book in the series.
While one doesn't need to read MacDonald's novels in order, he does capture the culture of America from the 60s to the 70s and I'm sure someone could (and should) write a PhD thesis about American culture, sex, economics, and politics as explored sequentially in Travis McGee novels.
* He gets paid for it.
* Perhaps, the payment is not worth the cost of getting it back.
Fair warning, MacDonald's take on women and sex in these books reflects the era.
The writing is actually a 3 or a 4, but the attitudes toward women in this book are extremely condescending in a subversive way, and brought the rating down.MacDonald can write a potboiler mystery.
The detective techniques are so obsolete at this time that it's like reading about another planet- that's kind of interesting.And then there's the women.
He's propositioned by several other women throughout the course if the book, but I think he only sleeps with one more- the heroine.
They are dancers, obviously lower class, but McGee likes them well enough not to screw them for no reason at all.
Very good opening for the Travis McGee series.
Little things that have annoyed in the three or four books that I have read out of sequence, such as McGee's fixation on himself and how he looks, his way with various disposable "bunnies," and his constant philosophizing, seemed softer, not as packaged.
Allen is a bad man, and a real risk of making this a one book standalone.
There are mechanical characters and mechanical scenes that seem to dominate the first third of the book.
It's a pretty good private-eye tale, as far as that goes, with a truly chilling villain and lots of gripping incidents and some knock-out brawls at the end.
This is definitely a novel in that tradition as much as the hardboiled private eye genre - indeed the two streams are probably not that far apart, at least when practiced by writers like Chandler.
The character of Travis McGee and his internal journey are as important and gripping as the main narrative, or at least I think you have to be equally invested in both to get the full impact of this novel.
This is the first in what is now a 21 book series and the first time we meet Travis McGee, a self-described "salvage consultant", almost like a treasure hunter but instead he recovers the property of his clients for a fee; half.
There wasn’t much depth in the character at all except in one scene where he was ready to torture someone for information and I saw a glimpse of a sociopath in McGee. This just made me want to read a book with a sociopath hard-boiled detective, so if you have any recommendations let me know.
An interesting start to the Travis McGee series. I wasn't always comfortable with the male/female interaction but it was written fifty years ago. I did like it when Travis got into his existential musings, a requirement for good pulp.
I read the introduction by Lee Child, and decided to read it, liking the idea of a guy living on a houseboat do-gooder.
Travis rejects contemporary material culture, and I really can't disagree with him much about that.
Travis is deeply focused on bodies, especially women's bodies, and mens' physicality.
He also seems to find his women characters to be somehow weak, immoral, spoiled, corrupted.
Their lack of strength makes them worth saving, but I can't escape the idea that somehow he doesn't really like any of them.
I think this was written as a man's man novel, unlike Jack Reacher, which never seems to allow sex to overcome the mystery.
His friend, Tiger, is just down the marina on a houseboat where there is a never-ending party.The key to this book is the narration by the McGee character who has a never-ending supply of thoughts and concerns about things going on in the American scene, including how many people are stuck in nine- to-five lives with dead-end, boring, meaningless jobs and views on the drug war (particularly marijuana).
What makes this book groove along is the way McGee angles and works to get justice for those who Junior wronged (and hopefully a few dollars too).
