https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/546721.The_Want_Ad_Killer
More like 3.5 stars maybe, but it would be unfair to only rate it 3 stars because it was immensely interesting and I couldn't point out too many things wrong with it if I tried.
The one annoying thing about Rule is that sometimes she sounds like your a bit old-fashioned, annoying, but well-meaning aunt or grandmother ("she was such a pretty young lady" kind of thing).
I'd say that some of her writing doesn't age that well, but the depiction of the actual scenes of crime (horryfying rape and murder in this case) stays evocative, poignant and haunting.
A must for fans of true crime!
Typical Ann Rule fare about Harvey Louis Carignan (aka "Harvey the Hammer") who has a penchant for bludgeoning his victims with a [spoiler ahead] hammer.

[library]This book is about the abominable Harvey Louis Carignan (who is STILL ALIVE, he is ninety). It is a perfectly competent recounting of his crimes & trials, nothing wrong with it at all. I don't recommend the audio book, as OVer emPHAtic READer is [breathless pause] OVer emPHAtic, but this is certainly a clear, concise summary of Harvey Carignan as a serial killer.
I hadn't heard much about this guy until reading this, Ann Rule does a great job as always.
Well researched and written..
A true crime story, but not that well-written.
As always Ann Rule delivered a true crime book that was riveting, fact filled, saddening, horrifying, yet needing to be told.
This book is about a serial rapist-killer who actually should have been sentenced for a crime 30 years prior to actually finding himself permanently in prison.
A man who though I wish I could say was just completely insane due to the nature of his crimes, and his attitude about those crimes, I can not, evidence says otherwise,I am thankful to Ann Rule for this book and all of her many other true crime stories she gave to us prior to her own passing.

This book delves into the case and defense of Harvey Carignan.
One thing that can be said about Rule's books is that even though you know in advance not to expect a happy ending, you can at least expect a satisfactory conclusion.
This book is well researched and then told in a clear chronological order that is also a perk to reading the work of Ann Rule.
I appreciate the case work that was done in this book.
It was something that I don't remember ever happening with any of the other true crime books I have read.
My first Ann Rule book. I can see why she was the most popular true crime writer of our time. Very well researched, and the people, the victims, perpetrators, and detectives, while they are indeed real people, Rule has the ability to truly bring out each person's humanness, be it good, indifferent, or highly disturbing. I'm now halfway through another of hers. And I'm psyched because she wrote so many.
Disappointed I've read multiple other books by Ms Rule and usually find them so intriguing that I hate to put a book of hers down. I expected this book to also be enthralling , I read half of it with high hopes, but in the end I decided to move on. I definitely won't let this detail me from trying out her plethora of other work though!
I'm a big Ann Rule fan. First, she's one of the pioneer females police officers in law endforcement. Second, she wrote about several areas of crime where I was involved. The want ad killer and I made contact and I was wise enough to listen to my gut to "get out and run!" I did, and later read about this monster in The Want-Ad Killer.
Worth the downloadI've recently discovered true crime novels and this one didn't disappoint. I couldn't put it down. I'd read it on the shuttle to work on my phone just so I could keep going during the day . Rule is a master in this genre and I'll be getting more of her work.
So, I put this in my couldn't finish shelf - which is pretty bad, because I read about 2/3 of it, but just couldn't complete it. The title is deceiving! And altogether just didn't captivate me at all.
I'm concerned that I'm scaring the people who see my reviews now because of all the true crime I've been reading lately. Don't judge. Ann Rule, as always did a good job with this story; it was a rough story that she told tastefully about a terrible human being.
About a horrible serial killer who was not sucessfully put away the first time.
It's been a while since I read most of these Ann Rules books, so I've been going back and re-reading them. This is an interesting early effort (written using the pen name 'Andy Stack').
This was a good one. Good reporting, interesting story.
This haunted me for a week--one sleepless week.
This story is not very compelling. The killer is pretty boring. It did kind of pick up during the trial when the killer finally speaks about his crimes.
For as long as I can remember, I've had a fascination with reading and watching documentaries about serial killers and true crime stories.
It's always been interesting to me, the minds of the people that can commit such unspeakable acts of violence, and also serves as a reminder to me that there are people to be wary of in every day life.When this book popped up for my library's True Crime Tuesday, I knew I had to listen to it.
How freaking terrible is that?Although his story was interesting, it makes me sad to know that there are people out there that commit such heinous crimes and I feel so bad for all the poor women that he violated, murdered, and ruined.Rating: 3 Stars.
For as long as I can remember, I've had a fascination with reading and watching documentaries about serial killers and true crime stories.
It's always been interesting to me, the minds of the people that can commit such unspeakable acts of violence, and also serves as a reminder to me that there are people to be wary of in every day life.When this book popped up for my library's True Crime Tuesday, I knew I had to listen to it.
Although his story was interesting, it makes me sad to know that there are people out there that commit such heinous crimes and I feel so bad for all the poor women that he violated, murdered, and ruined.
Ann Rule has a unique style of writing that just pulls you in, and makes you want to read her books from start to finish.
Harvey Carignan was a walking talking killing machine, who seemed to get away with murder after murder due to legal loopholes.
One of his tragic victims was 16 year old Kathy Miller.
Ann Rule's description of this cold blooded murderer is detailed and very realistic.
When you see his photos, he actually looks like Jack the Ripper.
Ann also shows a lot of compassion and insight towards the victims and their families.
R.I.P. Ann Rule, 23/10/1931 to 26/07/2015.
This nonfiction true crime book is about Harvey Carignan, who was so angry at women, he became a serial killer.
He coaxed women (mostly young women) to enter his vehicle and he would take them to a deserted area where he would sexually abuse them and often strike them several times with a hammer on the head, and leave them for dead.
Supposedly, he was sexually abused as a young child by women, which was the cause of his hatred.
This book leads to his eventual capture and trial.
Maybe Ann Rule wrote this as Andy Stack for a reason.
I don't know if she tried a different writing style as Andy Stack, or if this one was so early in her writing career that her writing wasn't as good (though Small Sacrifices was great and that was first), or maybe just that Harvey's story wasn't that interesting, but this one I didn't like nearly as much as her others.
If it was even 100 pages longer than it was, I don't know if I would have been able to finish it.
Not my favorite Ann Rule book, more for the crimes than through any fault of the author.
The Want-Ad Killer evaded capture for so long, and not because he was clever, or interesting, and his gloating over the crime was tough to stomach.
I'm more interested in calculated killers, serial killers with plans that require thought, and unsolved murders being solved.
Recommended to: people who want a deeper dive into a neither brilliant nor stupid killer.
Warning: the mother of the murdered girl makes many appearances.
This was beyond sad to me, though I'm glad she was given a voice!

InterestingThis is a very interesting true crime story. I particularly enjoyed it because much of it took place in Minnesota, where I live. The book felt well balanced between the background, the crimes, the investigation, the trial and the aftermath, the right amount of space given to each. I appreciated that this monster wasn't sensationalized or romanticized as unfortunately happens sometimes. I only read one other book by Ann Rule before, and hesitated to read another since I wasn't impressed. I'm glad I gave her another shot. She redeemed herself with this one
One of the veteran crime author's first full-length books concerns a man, Harvey Carignan, whose reported crimes included stops in her northwest Washington area, but his serial crimes were committed in Minnesota, where he is still locked up. Rule is her usual thorough self in describing the victims, the crimes and the criminals and not getting too deep in psychoanalysis of the criminal.
