https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1599707.The_Queen_of_Atlantis
Somewhere, in a remote region of the Sahara desert, there, still hides a Queen and her servants, taking refuge inside caves. She’s a well-educated beautiful woman, a polyglot …yet, for men seeking after her charms, she’s fatal. She is queen Antinea, the sovereign of the “Hoggar”. You’re in the Blad-el-Khouf: the country of the fear.  She is the last descendant of Atlantis kings lineage; the offspring of Neptune and Clito. It’s written in the book of Benoit that, though sinking, Atlantis center i
how they got imprisoned, separately, inside the palace; how Morhange got received by the queen; and the jealousy of Saint Avit.
As for the book, I would like to make a short commentary about the polemics (court-case) which involved Benoit: did he plagiarize H.
It’s been said that Benoit didn’t read English nor did he have any Ayesha’s novel published in France by his time.
And he lost the case.Interestingly, in the library of Queen Antinea, Morhange and Saint Avit found many books; they browsed through them: one was Don Qijote…the other was Macbeth.
Saint-Avit and Morhange are destined to end up in The Hall of Red Marble, but Morhange is not like the queen’s other suitors and perhaps the cycle can be broken.Antinea herself may be timeless, she may be immortal, she may be unimaginably old (the book is deliberately vague about these details), or she may be as much a victim of her own cult as her lovers.Modern critics will find it difficult to resist the temptation to see the novel as expressing a negative view of women but in fact that’s not at all what the book is about.
In fact, he was accused of plagiarizing Haggard: He got off the hook because he could not read English, and Haggard had not yet been translated into French.Benoit writes about a Kingdom of Atlantis that was not so much sunk into the ocean as arisen from the ocean, where it exists as a mountain kingdom in the middle of the Sahara Desert, no less.
Antinea, the Queen of Atlantis, likes to capture young Europeans that stray or are misguided into her realm, where she proceeds to love them to death and exhibit their mummified remains in a red marble hall.
Hell hath no fury like Antinea! In some ways this is a weird recipe. It's from 1920 and has some superficial resemblance to H. Rider Haggard's “She”. There's also parallels to Clark Ashton Smith and strong echoes to Tony Scott's 1983 opus “The Hunger” (I'd mention Whitley Strieber, but I never read his book and don't know how much of it was in that film).  “Atlantida” is a French military man recounting the circumstances under which he killed a fellow soldier during a expedition in the Sahara i
Hell hath no fury like Antinea!
“Atlantida” is a French military man recounting the circumstances under which he killed a fellow soldier during a expedition in the Sahara in the 1890s.
The major factor there being the near-immortal queen, Antinea, who loves men to death and keeps them bronzed and on display in a red marble hall.
The book is a might long winded, taking a lot of time with characters recounting their origins and other histories.
I didn't find myself bored by the slow boil or by the fact that it is never a truly action-based story.
"Η Ατλαντίδα", εκδόσεις Άγκυρα.Βαθμολογία: 7/10Δεν είναι αμιγώς φαντασίας, όμως έχουμε την μυθική Ατλαντίδα καταμεσής της Σαχάρας και μια βασίλισσα που μέσω των θέλγητρων της οδηγεί στον θάνατο θαρραλέους αξιωματικούς και εξερευνητές, που έτυχε να βρεθούν σ'αυτά τα μέρη.
Το βιβλίο είναι γραμμένο το 1919 και δείχνει σε μεγάλο βαθμό τα χρόνια του, όμως το διάβασα αρκετά ευχάριστα και γρήγορα.
Δεν ξετρελάθηκα και τόσο από την πλοκή, που νιώθω ότι κάπου την έχω ξαναδεί ή ξανακούσει, όμως μου άρεσαν οι περιγραφές των τοπίων, οι σκηνές δράσης και η όλη ατμόσφαιρα.
zaati ben, üzerinde, mu, atlantis, agarta, ufo gibi sihirli kelimeler olmasın, hemen üstüne 4 elimle atlar alırım.
internette hoggarla ilgili biraz araştırma yapınca, harita üzerinde yeri, bölgenin fiziksel özellikleri falan, sanki taşlar yerine oturuyor, bilgileri-hikayeyi doğruluyor gibi.).kitap, sahrada görevli birkaç fransız askerinin-subayının, sahrada, bugünkü cezayir-algeriada, targi-tuareglerin-berberilerin yaşadığı yerde, yalıtılmış dağlık Hoggar adlı dağlık, kayalık, kalelerden oluşmuş, tıpkı babil kulesi gibi, gerçek dünyadan saklı bir cennete yolculuğu ve burada yaşananları anlatır.buranın, hoggarın kraliçesi Antinea adlı güzel bir kadındır.
yeni baskısı olmayan eski bir kitap,sahaflardan buldummihail bulgakov'un bir kitabında adı geçtiği için merak edip okudumAslında klasik bir konusu olsada,kısaca sahranın ortasındaki kale gibi yerde kapatılmış,dünya güzeli antinea ve onun planları yinede üslüp ve yazıldığı devir için iyi sayılabilecek bir kitapokurken keyif aldım,bilimkurgu sevenlerin seveceği türden bir kitap
1920 edition
Atlantide ensevelie sous le Sahara au lieu d'engloutie. Dirigée par une femme qui collectionne les mâles qui tombent amoureux d'elle.

Atlantida was the sloggiest French genre novel that I have ever read, with an oddly nesting doll-esque frame story structure, descriptions of the setting that drag on for ages, and very little suspense.
It would have made an okay short story, but as a novel, I thought it was slightly interminable.However, this novel does include the quote: ..."it's no fun being aboard a submarine when the captain takes opium..." I don't know if that's true or not, but it's a good enough quote to earn the book an extra star.
I'm told this book shares a lot in common with the more famous "She", but as I have not read that one yet, I'll come back later to comment.
At any rate, this is a pretty exciting story, but ultimately you long for a hero, and the one hero of the story is killed by the narrator.
This is not a spoiler; you are told from the very start about the Captain's death.
Ultimately though I went with 3 stars because a book of this length shouldn't take me a month to read; I kept putting it down and not returning to it for days at a time.
Ah, Pierre Benoît... A forgotten French master, who wrote an astonishing number of novels filled with adventure, exotic settings, lethal femmes fatales (whose first names always start with an A), hopeless romantic loves. All those books -who were extremely popular when they were published- are actually very well written, and some of them, like MADEMOISELLE DE LA FERTE, are in fact real masterpieces of great psychological depth. This one -about the myth of Atlantis- was a tremendous hit, inspired countless movies, and it remains a very enjoyable read.
Reading is my hobby; I do it because I love it. There is no question that I read many frivolous things, and some deep, thoughtful things. This book was plain tedium. 128 pages in, and we still haven't met the queen who is supposed to be the title character and the motive for the shocking murder in the African desert. Call me a fool for instant gratification, but I just plain can't take it anymore. Karl Marx' Communist Manifesto was more entertaining and engaging than this literary Bataan Death March.
Lu vers 11/13 ans cette histoire m’avait fait une forte impression. Exotisme et mystère, amour et mort, ce court roman, furtif comme un mirage en plein désert, se lit d’une traite. Je ne me souvenais pas de sa briéveté, et c’est le seul point qui me déçoit à la relecture, je l’aurais voulu plus long. Mais quelle joie de le relire !
This was an interesting take on the lost city of Atlantis by a French author. It was interesting to read the various Sahara/North Africa geographic references circa 1920. Recommend to anyone interested in reading early adventure/science fiction. This is an Ace Science Fiction Classic, series F, F-281.
On the pale water of the little pool, motionless and fixed like a silver nail, a star had just been born.......Pierre Benoit
Sort of an inferior SHE....but still kind of fun to read, even though it was predictable.
diciamo che come romanzo avrebbe pure i suoi perché, purtroppo è scritto davvero male.La trama si svolge in maniera troppo superficiale.Un vero peccato: l'idea è bellissima.
une théorie amusante...
