https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71725.Biplane
The biplane is his time machine and as he moves from place to place, Bach looks back into his own past--the other planes he's flown, the pilots he's flown with, his love of flight itself, all while getting to know the biplane.
And so the next time I got on a plane after reading it, I found that my focus had shifted, and now I absolutely LOVE flying.
I've only read this book the one time, and I'm not sure if I would feel the same way about it were I to read it again now, as an adult.

I picked this up with some trepidation, as I absolutely loathed  Jonathan Livingstone Seagull (the deputy headmistress at my school was a big fan and regularly treated us to readings in Assembly). I enjoyed this account of buying a vintage biplane and flying it home across the country a great deal more, though. Full of nostalgia, description and joy; it's no wonder  Ray Bradbury liked it enough to write the preface.
Maybe be one of the most boring books i've ever read in my whole life. Although i call myself "aviator", love everything about aviation, and i love Richard Bach's books - this piece of literature wouldn't be my favorite for sure!I've been forcing my way through lines for MONTHS! Even though the book has just 176 pages, i couldn't read it quick. I was reading it before going to sleep, and all i can say... my sleep was good.
what an amazing book! You feel at one with the flying machine as Richard Bach takes you flying beyond the blue horizon..:)
One of his best. If you are a fan of aviation, you will want to read this book.
And you definitely don't brag about covering all the terrain between Hemet and Los Angeles at one go, given that it's basically flat and safe, takes less than an hour, and there's an airport literally every ten miles.In conclusion, the back cover says this book is not about how to fly a plane, to which the Adventurers' Book Club offers a sincere "no shit."
I have greatly enjoyed all that I've read by Richard Bach, and this book made me realize why.To address my love for this book and the author behind it, I feel that I must first address what it taught me.
Biplane, among other novels leading up to it, made me realize the true power of a testimony, be it "fictional" or not.Next, I want to address the SYMBOLISM.
It will make you laugh at yourself, cry for humanity, and realize that life is beautiful and surely worth the living.
Bach's Zen-like prose touches someone like me and seduces me into following the story through to the end.
Even when nothing seemed to occur in certain chapters of this book, I read on, entranced still by words, even if nothing significant happened in the codes of those words.
I can't say that about many books I read, that the words alone entranced me, and that's why I enjoyed this as much as I did.
Those who practice mindfulness may enjoy this book more, due to Bach's highly spiritual views.
Highly recommended for the spiritual reader.

In questo libro, come in "Straniero alla terra", si respira l'aria del pilota-scrittore, ovvero siamo ancora lontani dal profilo dello scrittore-pilota dei lavori più maturi (che preferisco).  Però Bach è sempre Bach, lo stile è leggero, e tra le righe ci sono già alcuni messaggi e riflessioni interessanti. La storia è semplicemente il racconto di un viaggio coast-to-coast a bordo di un biplano, chiaramente autobiografica, ma comunque piacevole.
As with all Richard Bach's book, you notice the magic around the sentences, hidden messages for you about live. You will also understand his other books as well.Como en todos los libros de Richard Bach, se puede notar la magia en las lineas, mensajes ocultos acerca de la vida. Y ayuda a entender sus otros libros tambien.
This slim little volume is an ode of love to flying in general and biplanes in particular. Bach's poeticism and easy-going philosophy lends weight to his tale of a cross-country journey in a 1920s biplane. From my perspective, as a novelist researching the old planes, it's also a goldmine of fascinating details about the life and biz of being a pilot. A must-read on the subject.
I adored this in high-school- the self-deprecating humor, the lure of the open sky, the breathless descriptions of flying, and the down-to-earth wisdom that seemed to rise up out of the ground while Bach slept under the wing of his puddle-jumper biplane.
In an age where 'time is money', the majesty of flying is too often taken for granted. Bach reminds us of the joy that is to be found each time the world drops away from the wheels and the wind whistles through the wires.Owen ZuppAuthor: '50 Tales of Flight'http://www.amazon.com/dp/B00BKEDNMC
Hope, the wish to go over borders, reach the limits, and doing so understanding the true values in our soul. A flight through US fields and mountains, which can very much be a flight in ourselves.A book for free spirits.
Utterly boring.If someone asked me what is this book about, I'd probably say something like:Whining with remorse, for the rookie mistakes he made, that comes from a pilot with experience who actually doesn't know how to fly properly.
I still remember the biplane rides Bach describes. He nails a perfect introduction into the more subtle side of life. A must read for any young reader. -Jason Kuethe
Wonderful story of an era that has since passed us by.
A man and and a very old plane cross America. It's a beautiful read though far too short.
Of course this is a five-star rating from my fifteen year old inner teenager's vantage point. In adolescence, it was a whole new way of thinking.
Dramatic, sensational, impressive narrative
Amazing! If you aren't a pilot, you'll want to be. If you are a pilot, I hope you find the passion in flying that Bach express.
Good read of Mr. Bach barnstorming across the country.
another one for my list to re-read.
Flying a plane, with all its beauty, freedom, glory.
One of the greatest books I've ever read.Imagery and storytelling at their finest! A masterpiece of simplicity and the joys associated with it
One of my favorite Richard Bach books.
Just getting back in to reading on a regular basis - or trying - Bach has long been one of my favorites and this is starting out no differently.
Bach the author is also Bach the highly experienced pilot. In this piece he paints a picture of what it's like to fly an antique biplane. It's not for everyone but surely for most of us it's a treat.
