https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/319976.Five_Fall_Into_Adventure
We see again the repeated theme of a dirty gypsy child (or sometimes just a child of the serving classes) in need of betterment being befriended and ultimately parted from their criminal lone parent/guardian.
but rather than tell the nearby police he dives right back in again on his own.There's some malarky with gypsy caravans (smelly & dirty, though I have always heard that the Roma keep their caravans fastidiously clean) and it turns out that George and Timmy are being held by a mad American scientist who wants her uncle's secrets.
Every Famous Five book needs caves.

5 🌟 love the characters that get added to the adventures. Jo was amazing in this one.
This instalment of the Famous Five series (number nine if you're counting) is pretty high on the thrills-and-spills-meter, what with its international espionage, multiple kidnappings and cliffhanger chapter endings.The reason for my only giving it three stars are twofold:1.
Due to being abducted pretty early on in the story, (view spoiler)[George and Timmy (hide spoiler)] are absent for most of this book.
Speaking of Jo, she's directly involved in my other reason for deducting a star from this book.
The attitude seems to be that of course poor children get beaten by their parents!
I loved reading these when I was younger and I just found my old audiobooks, so I thought it would be nice to listen to. It was quite nostalgic, I remember why I loved them so much.Needless to say, they are timeless children's classics and I still enjoy them very much.
Bisher die schwächste Folge der Hörspielfolgen. Die Entführung von Georgie ist mir eine Spur zu dramatisch und ein Helikopter zur damaliger Zeit? Die Zigeunerstereotypen machen es auch nicht besser.. [16.08.2018]
The Five are in a lot of trouble. Someone has broken into Kirrin Cottage in an attempt to steal Uncle Quentin's valuable scientific papers and George and Timmy have been kidnapped. Jo, the ragamuffin gypsy girl ( I note this has now been changed to 'traveller' in the newer copy I read this time around!)makes her first appearance in the series and shows how plucky and resourceful she can be. Thankfully all is resolved in the end and The Five (and Jo) can get back to eating their way through the rest of the holidays. Meat pie anyone?
There's a little part in this where Julian, after detailing the current predicament that the Famous Five have gotten themselves into, remarks, "...This is all very stupid and melodramatic" and it's kind of the highlight of the entire book for me.
The Famous Five are such iconic figures, even to those who maybe have never read any of the original books, that Julian's wry little comment sings of wall-breaking and authorial intervention, and it's great.
I suspect that it's long past time to bring Blyton in out of the cold, and let her be remarked upon as one of the canonical lights of children's literature.
This is one of my favorite Enid Blyton books being one fo the very first I have read. It was way back in 1989 my parents gifted this books to me for my Birthday when I was in hospital. Really loved this book. Reading it again it brought back the pleasent memories evoked the first time I read it. So probably this is my favorite in the entire Famous Five series - the series itself being one of my least favorite.
I've always thought this book was a little darker than some of the others, from Jo's blatant child abuse at the hands of her father and his friends, to George's kidnapping and the doping of Timmy.
The adventures aren't as light hearted as the ones before it, but that doesn't keep me from enjoying it.A bright spark is Jo herself; she's a plucky but downtrodden version of George.
She's a bright spark, and joins the five for later adventures, and this is her introduction.
Tapi hatinya baik, benar-benar anak yang budiman."Petualangan kesembilan Lima Sekawan!Di liburan kali ini giliran George dan Timmy diculik segerombolan penjahat yang mau mencuri dokumen paman Quentin!
Saya juga suka dengan karakter baru buku ini, Jo. Memang sih dia liar dan bandel tapi terbukti kita tidak bisa judging a book by its cover.
Karen toh dia memang anak yang baik hanya karena diasuh salah oleh ayahnya makanya dia jadi bandel.Petualangan di buku ini juga seru dan cukup menegangkan dengan penjahat yang cukup menyeramkan.
Menurut saya buku ini salah satu buku seri lima sekawan yang paling menegangkan mulai dari pencarian George sampai penyelamatan diri mereka.Salam Limun Jahe!
Such a good book so well thought out enjoyed it thoroughly and do glad I found it really way to spend your time would recommend it to everyone who loves adventure novels, Also try the whole series you will be holding BRILLIANCE IN YOUR HANDS.
Kao maloj Pet prijatelja su mi bili za pet sa zvezdicom.
Serijal mog detinjstva.
Mislim, kakve pustolovine, kakva hrana!
Danas su mi, međutim, tako nekako meh...
Sve vidim, i što treba i što ne treba (formulne zaplete, rodnu, klasnu problematiku).
I ne mogu a da se ne upitam koliko godina ta deca imaju?
Avanture doživljavaju za vreme praznika, knjiga u serijalu ima oko petnaestak, možda i više...
Oni kao da se iz knjige u knjigu pripremaju za veliki svet, svet odraslih u koji ipak nikako ne odlaze.
Mora biti da me je taj mit o večitom detinjstvu toliko i opčinio kao klinku.
In this story they introduce "ragamuffin Jo" who I think is simply wonderful. The way she comes to trust the famous five, her pure admiration for Dick for simply treating her kindly and her amazing confidence is delightful.The plot consists of the typical mad criminal and secret passageways. I felt that due to the intensity of George missing and Timmy being drugged as well as Julian feeling so helpless, the plot did feel a bit darker than the previous ones. Overall, it is one of the best adventures in the series.
Ragamuffin Jo was a beautiful character
I love this book because I love adventure books. I like all of them Julian,Dick,George,Anne and Timmy the dog.
I wish I had read all these adventures when I was a kid. I still find these marvelous and intriguing to the max.
I absolutely adored these stories as a kid. I'm so glad they continue to be reprinted for current generations to enjoy!
Berbeda dengan liburan sebelumnya, Lima Sekawan tidak melakukan perjalanan (baca: petualangan).
Julian, Dick, Anne, George, dan Timmy berencana untuk berenang di pantai setiap hari.
Suatu hari, mereka bertemu dengan Jo, gelandangan yang duduk di lubang yang dibuat oleh George.
Namun saat hari sudah malam dan ia tidak juga kembali, mereka mulai khawatir.Lalu datanglah Jo mengantarkan sebuah surat yang berisi keterangan mengenai George.
Sebagai tebusannya, para sepupu George harus menyerahkan catatan Paman Quentin kepada mereka dengan cara yang telah ditentukan dalam surat.
Mereka juga tidak boleh melibatkan polisi.
Wow, petualangan baru segera dimulai!Benarkah Jo adalah gelandangan jahat yang terlibat dalam penculikan George dan Timmy?
Despite being an on the edge of yer seat story with plentiful brown trouser moments, I am only giving this one 3*s.
If you're going to ditch George and Timmy, then as my right honourable friend Paul illustrates in his review 't'aint a famous five book if you only have three of 'em in most of it!Jo-I thought for a while that George had actually been written out entirely and replaced with Jo to see if we'd notice!
Jo is at times an astringent character peppered with kindness but the beatings she constantly talks about kind of take you away from the story and more into a mindset of 'will someone please stop all these poor kids getting needlessly duffed up!
This was one of the first FF books I ever read so I've read it a fair few times; every time, I feel annoyed that these kids don't go to the police even when George is kidnapped.
Instead, they jolly off pretending to be paperboys and go walking around woods they don't know, sailing up the coast to remote locations, and come out unscathed!
Ginger beer, ice creams, villians after Uncle Q's books...it never fails!
"The five meet up at Kirrin Station and find Aunt Fanny and Uncle Quentin are going to Spain on holiday leaving the five at home with their maid, Joanna.
On the beach they meet a gypsy girl called Jo. After the house gets burgled, George gets kidnapped and Jo comes with a card telling them to leave some documents to exchange for George...."I absolutely adored Famous Five as a child.
I trawled through secondhand stores and slowly acquired all of them.
Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book!
I was curious to see how it would go now I'm an adult.
I loved these books as a kid!
As an adult, I guess it was ok.
I can't believe how much food features in the book!
Every time something happens and the five get half a chance, they are tucking into hearty helpings of whatever's available and it always tastes delicious.
Meanwhile Timmy is still eating up ice creams in one mouthful and copping complaints from the others because he doesn't even taste it.It was nice to read it but I don't need to read another one.
These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
For some reason this was one of my favorite ones so far. Not sure why the series has to have to kidnappings in a row but it's ok. Joe is was a nice addition and I like that she got more of a closure ending than in the 1997 series.
I don't like this story at all. Too much violence and child abuse.....
Wonderful book 😁I really like the bookIt a great book full of adventuresI like all your books thank you much
It feels nostalgic to reread the story that I used to read in my childhood
Good fast paced story. Though, Jo, a new character seems to be the hero in this book. The famous five are pretty helpless here.
AmazingI chose this rating because it was a very adventurous book and I like adventurous booksIt was very interesting and I would highly recommend it
