https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/565109.Labels
Recently I have fully begun to appreciate the writing genius of Evelyn Waugh.
Having read all of his fiction, bar Sword of Honour, which I am poised to start, I was keen to sample some of Evelyn Waugh's non-fiction.
Waugh chose the name "Labels" for this, his first travel book, because he thought the places he visited were already "fully labelled" in people's minds.
The writing is a delight, and each page is full of fun, amusing anecdotes, and incident.
For example, the cruise ship on which Waugh travels, occasionally encounters another cruise ship favoured by German tourists.
Take the following For Instance ::Radio DJ :: So tell us, What kind of music do you play?Band Member :: We don’t like to label our music.
We just play what we feel.Radio DJ :: But surely you can characterize your music.
We want everyone to make up their own mind.Radio DJ :: But no one is going to give a fig about you if they don’t have some preconception that you’re even anywhere near to their ballpark of interests.
Band Member :: No but we just really don’t believe in genre and labels and pigeonholes and things like that.
Radio DJ :: You’re an idiot .Band Member :: No labels please .B=side ::“I listen to all=kinds/every=kind of music”.
Published in 1930, “Labels” is Evelyn’s Waugh first travel book, which was followed in 1931 by the more well known “Remote People.” In both location and style, this is a more tentative – but certainly not a less enjoyable – book.
It is, he observes, “like having the Prince of Wales at the next table in a restaurant; one kept pretending not to notice, while all the time glancing furtively to see if they were still there.”During this book, Waugh has a warm and chatty style; he is charming, charmed and open to new experiences.



Not strictly a book on Spain as it touches other countries at the time.
However, the great writer did visit Spain and left behind some surprisingly acute observation for such a short stint.
For reason alone I recommend this publication to any Hispanophile keen to expand and compare their observations and learning of the country.It is a gem of a book and its premise is masterly, namely to visit those countries in the Med that have already been 'labelled' as 'This' or 'That' and discover if such epithets are true or are in need of urgent revision.
Entertaining description of travels through inter-war Europe.
Luncheon was very bad indeed, even though it was cooked in the office of the commissar of police; the wine was a dark-coloured local vintage, not red but not exactly black, the colour one’s fountain pen makes when one dips it accidentally into the red inkpot; it was very sour and left a temporarily indelible stain on the tongue and teeth.’Waugh’s first biographer, his old friend Christopher Sykes, believes that there was still some uncertainty in Waugh’s mind at this point as to what he would make of his life; he gives as corroboration a remark in Labels concerning an encounter in a Paris nightclub, where Evelyn is mistaken for his elder brother, Alec, who was at that time a far more widely-known author.
This is a travel book, written by Evelyn Waugh (later famous for "Brideshead Revisited") when he was trying to make some money by writing. He took a 3 month Mediterranean cruise, and wrote of the places they visited. Written 1930, it's an interesting look at post-WWI and pre-WWII Europe. Although only 167 pages, it took me awhile to read. Before traveling to any of the stops mentioned in the book, I'll definitely re-read those pages.
I enjoyed this book very much. Having visited most of the places he did during his 1929 Mediterranean travels (this book is essentially a journal of that trip), it was interesting to read how many things have not changed much. I also found myself chuckling often, his wry sense of humor is not unlike present day authors like Bill Bryson.
Evelyn Waugh's trip around the Mediterranian. Feels somewhat staid now. There are some fine quips and bon-mots, but several other passages that have aged to the point they have become racist. Some nice reflections on small provisional villages that have now become holiday hot-spots.
Las miserias del turismo hace 100 años
Algunas experiencias interesantes.
Amusing, interesting; has made me want to read more of his work.
*3.5 stars.“...with his arrival begins the ignoble trade of manufacturing special trinkets for touri

Evelyn Waugh went to Paris and then took a Mediterranean cruise, visiting Egypt, the Holy Land, Crete and various Aegean islands, as well as Constantinople, Algeria and a few other places.
But since Waugh was also a brilliant writer and a very funny man, broader-minded readers will find this a very amusing book indeed, and funniest when the author is at his beastliest.
Your fave is problematic.
I adore Waugh - biting and bitchy, smart, funny, with quippy, agile prose.
Having previously read only his fiction, where that peevish, acid eye is turned (mainly) on his peers, (and, obviously, with the remove of almost a century), I'd found his works delicious, or sad, or funny, but always impressive.
Here, he achieves equally prodigious heights of dizzying racism, snobbery, and sexism.
Aside from the general repugnancy of those ways of thinking (of course, he's not alone in works of earlier periods), also damning is that his smug, too too bored tone comes off in the most affected, banal way.
En 1929, el brillante y ácido escritor Evelyn Waugh tuvo la oportunidad de emprender un viaje a lo largo y ancho de todo el Mediterráneo, de Monte Carlo a Port Said, de El Cairo a Sevilla, pasando por ciudades como Nápoles, Constantinopla, Argel o Barcelona. Waugh, por entonces un valor emergente de la literatura inglesa, quiso dejar testimonio escrito de esta odisea.Este autor conocidos por su afamada novela Retorno a Bridehead con su libro etiquetas nos lleva a viajar al mediterráneo de los años 30. Personalmente me gustan mucho los libros de viajes y las peripecias por las que atraviesan.
This is fun. Waugh travels around the Mediterranean in the late 1920s, during the early days of mass tourism. His comments on the places and process are often witty. His immaturity shows at times, and he spends far too long in one boring place (Port Said - he originally intended to write a whole book about the place and couldn't bear to "kill his baby"), but it's still a pleasure.
This was somewhat of a disappointment after Scoop. Waugh's wit is still present to some degree, but Labels has really become too dated to appreciate today, unless you have some specific interest in the mediterranean around 1930.
Een leuk, onderhoudend reisboek, mij eigenlijk aangeraden door Paul Theroux in diens boek "De zuilen van Hercules"Het boek bleek uiteindelijk niet zo makkelijk vindbaar, maar ik kocht het een jaar of zo geleden en nu dus eindelijk ook gelezen ;)
Reading in WAUGH ABROAD: COLLECTED TRAVEL WRITING (Everyman)
helpful
An Englishman travels the Mediterranean. Lots of fun!
Waugh's wit remains as fresh as ever. A fun, quick read!
