https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/464690.Outlaw_of_Gor
Anyone who buys into such rhetoric only does so because they are not a whole person.Since Norman had already written a book where a man travels through a world filled with luscious lady slaves and frees them so that they can truly devote themselves to him, he felt he had to up the ante with the sequel.Now, Terb, son of Terb, Terb rider must travel to the far-off city of Therb where he meets the Therbtrix, its alluring and mysterious queen.
Terb's aforementioned 'true love' was one ornery, cutthroat bitch, so Norman felt he had to ratchet it up and create a literal Queen of all Bitches for his hero to dominate with his impassable exterior and self-sacrificing kindness.We all know a guy who complains about being 'too nice'.
(Spirit is shown by a woman saying things like "No, never!" to men who want to subdue her.)And the reader knows it's just a matter of time before one of these beautiful and spirited women, with her dress ripped to shreds, will be on her knees with her arms raised and wrists crossed and begging Tarl to enslave her.
(There is no sex of any sort in these books so far, by the way.)This is all fine for a little bit of fun and fantasy roleplay, but when Tarl suggests that women don't really want freedom, but actually want to be men's full-time pleasure slaves....
It's a troublesome attitude to be sure, but at least one that's no different than a thousand other genre projects that have been written over the years (including the work of Edgar Rice Burroughs, which "Gor" author John Norman is still liberally ripping off here in the second volume); but I have to say, I'm looking forward to getting through these slogs and finally reaching the weirdo '70s S&M psychoterror fantasies that this series is best known for.
When he discovers that his Gorean home city has been wiped off the face of Gor, that his friends and family -- his wife -- have been scattered to its four corners, all courtesy of the Priest-Kings, he sets off for the mountains in search of whatever retribution he can exact.
On the way, he enters Tharna, a city unique on Gor, for it is ruled by women.
Norman had a lot of ground to cover in his first book; here he can focus his (and Tarl's) energies on the fate of a single city.As you might expect, this installment has more to say about women and their place in Gorean society than the last one.
People criticize John Norman as if since he's not Tolkien, he's not worth reading.
No one reads these and wishes the whole world to be reshaped in Gor's image, but just every now and then we all would like a little Gor in our lives - just a little.
As everyone knows this is what will become Norman's signature theme, but in this book it stays lighthearted.
This book also introduces another aspect of Norman's signature style, he over explains things we really don't care about.
No one explains the obvious like Norman and I say that as good thing.
I'm wondering if I might have been a little hasty in questioning this authors writing style last time.
It seems to me that there are too few authors that make you want to immediately start the next book and in fact almost instill in you an intense desire to read them all as quickly as possible just so that you can begin again from the start.
but I'm definitely going to read the next one straight away.', or something to that effect anyway.
It's extremely effective in drawing you into the story and you find you simply can't put the book down.
Wow this book was great as well.
It too was action-packed, and a really exciting read.
Contains adult sexual themes not for children, such as nudity and S&M.
In my personal opinion it is more humorous than anything else, because it is so ridiculous a concept.
It is definitely a barbaric depiction of an alien world, but sometimes it seems as though these may be Norman's personal opinions of how society should behave in real life on Earth, which is somewhat disturbing.
Even So I would read it again.
The book itself was great despite some of the weird sexual themes.
I read this whole series in a marathon session, while stationed in England. The depth and volume of the stories is humbling for any writer and I consider this series very influential in my own approach to writing and world building in general; generic post for all the books in this series as I am finally getting around to recording my reading list in Goodreads.
Book is well hated by people I despise, so I had to check it out.
Did not disappoint, light and fun reading, will definitely be continuing on with the series between other books."I have loved life.
And on this barbaric world I have seen it in all its beauty and cruelty, in all its glory and sadness.
I have seen it in the vanished towers of Ko-ro-ba and in the flight of a tarn, in the movements of a beautiful woman, in the gleam of weaponry, in the sound of tarn drums and the crash of thunder over Green fields.
Why would they have brought Cabot back to Gor only to destroy everything he wants to return to?There is only one answer Cabot determines to travel to the Sardar mountains where they are said to live, the only problem being everyone who travels there never comes back.Of course, things don’t go smoothly and Cabot is distracted as he gets pulled into the intrigues of a city ruled by a woman, something unheard of on Gor.There are some excellent set pieces – the gladiator like battles, the escape from the mines but as always there is the elephant in the room, that of slavery something that is a fundamental theme running through the Gor novels.In some ways, if you want to be open minded it is an interesting idea.
Oh, Outlaw of Gor. You were fun. You really were. But in the end, there were some things that I just couldn't overlook in regards to your execution.Take, for instance, your approach to world building and exposition. It's good to want to build on the lore and science of your world, book...but there are ways to do that without stopping the entire narrative to describe (in depth) the time system of Gor. The Gorean day is divided into twenty Ahn, which are numbered consecutively. The tenth Ahn is no
It's good to want to build on the lore and science of your world, book...but there are ways to do that without stopping the entire narrative to describe (in depth) the time system of Gor.
And don't think that just because Tarl stops the story's progression to explain how time works in Gor, that that's the only bit of information you'll be getting.
There are ways of weaving world building into your narration, and stopping everything to randomly talk about breeds of snake is not it.(I exaggerate a bit - I assume that the lecture on Gorean breeds of snake is so that the reader can immediately spot Ost for a traitorous villain, since he's named after the most treacherous type of snake.
For the first half of this book it feels like a good bad b-movie.
A standard, typical story with characters that are not anything but what their roles within the story should be.
The first chapter is really good, the descriptions are very good, there isn't anything pretentious about it, it makes sense.However, the second half of the book happens, and everything goes downhill.
To learn more of why this half of the book is terrible and an explanation, visit www.squaregroot.com and listen to the full review there.First half of the book, good.
Second half, terrible.
"Outlaw of Gor" was, in theory, written for fans of "Tarnsman of Gor" who had, in theory, read that first book.
We just got done reading "Tarnsman of Gor", now we're here to read a fresh installment in what is, in theory, an intriguing science-fantasy adventure, not to absorb dreary padding that tells us what we already know!
"Outlaw of Gor" contains less action and escape than the first book, and considerably more misogyny and woman-enslavement.
The inclusion of a city run by women is evidence that John Norman was less content with adventure and more interested in pushing his "philosophy".Sorry, Goreans, I'm gay and so the whole woman-enslavement thing was just boring to me.
In Outlaw of Gor, Tarl Cabot fights to free a city, Tharna, from the clutches of a totalitarian regime.
After many adventures, Tarl Cabot triggers a civil war that eventually restores an allegedly more natural social order to Tharna, a social order in which men control most of Tharna's social and political institutions, even though the queen remains the titular head of state.
As social commentary or gender theory, Outlaw of Gor is less compelling, but its basic tenets are held dearly enough by some BDSM practitioners to make the read worthwhile, at least for me.
Well, obviously this book is nothing like the film of the same name.
As a matter of fact, after reading this book I find that the movie makes even less sense than it did before!
No matter, though, as I'm not here to review the film.I liked this book!
It had lots of things: mystery, adventure, romance, action, and a terrific ending that makes me itchy to pick up the third book.
It has a slave uprising as exciting as Spartacus and Norman really shines descriptively in this sequel to Tarnsman.I most definitely recommend this book to any literate person.
this book reminded me of the movie Sparta with Kirk Douglas to some degree. the book held my focus and I finished this one in a few short days...only reading it a few hours each night. one's imagination has to be opened to fully appreciate and understand its hidden meanings. ❤it.
this book reminded me of the movie Sparta with Kirk Douglas to some degree. the book held my focus and I finished this one in a few short days...only reading it a few hours each night. one's imagination has to be opened to fully appreciate and understand its hidden meanings. ❤️it.
Ever read the old John Carter of Mars books? Well here is the more adult version of a man transported to a more savage world. Great adventure reads, but not for the faint at heart. Very adult material dealing with sex. Recommended
The second book of the series still hadn't devolved into BDSM fantasy yet; the slavegirls were more present on the covers than in the story. A decent adventure in the tradition of Edgar Rice Burroughs.
Oh, it's book 2....okay never noted the change. Like I said before Soft core porn...read some of these in my "wild youth". whoopee.
I am unashamedly hooked on the Gor series
Sure people will tell you thats its just meant to entertain, and its not really about how the writer feels about women, but that thinking fails the show don't tell rule.
No matter what anyone tells you, when you read the book the misogyny just leaps off the page, and you know its real.
So how could there be an entire culture with set rules, and set laws that everyone knows for such a tiny fragment of the population that almost no one would have seen first hand?
How would people all know about colars, and positions if they are so rare?
Also, the plot grabs one quickly and doesn't really let go.This was a great segue book going into rest of the series - and definitely a cliffhanger of sorts, in that one is left almost leaning forward in one's seat towards the next book in the series, with anticipation.Of course, one sees the various influences on the writer, but just taking this as its own animal, it is enjoyable.
There are some writers who are derivative to the point of not being fun, but Norman isn't one of them.
Looking forward to the next book!
The second books seems to follow a similar formula as the first book.
Tarl meets a woman, frees her from being a slave, she finds it demeaning she's not made a slave, he refused, she insists, he gives in.This time Tarl Cabot finds himself back in Gor but this time without a city to return to.
Along the journey, he visits the city of Tharna where he gets enslaved.
In this city, he leads a slave revolt and overthrow the ruling government.After that, he continues his journey which is told in the next book.
There are much better books to read than this.
Tarl Cabot returns to the planet of Gor, finding what he left is gone and he no more than a commoner. He is enslaved, imprisoned by a fierce, masked female leader. Eventually he finds she is beautiful, and...well there are no surprises here, he fights for his freedom and encounters females as submissive sex slaves. Actually a pretty entertaining, (very) old-fashioned exotic adventure. Margaret Atwood would hate it but it was fun. Look forward to eventually continuing the series, though it apparently goes off the deep end at some point.
An improvement, though it's been years since I read the first. The story is passable, but of course the real excitement lies in the hyper-violent hyper-sexualized Conan-esque setting ( I know the plots resemble Burroughs, but the feeling is Conan.) Something I began noticing; the bare mention of children. Slave girls everywhere, but no children?
I like fantasy and the book is very well written. Those who do identify as lifestyle would probably have difficulties with the slave references but one should keep in mind, it is a fantasy book. The reading level is pretty high, mainly due to the vocabulary and structure. I read this more aloud which was challenging, it would be much easier reading it to oneself.
Sword-and-sandal fun in the pulp tradition of Edgar Rice Burroughs. Good worldbuilding. Barely adequate writing. This series is of course (in)famous for the weird BDSM-like slavery, but in these first few books it doesn't play that much of a role.This second book is of a similar style to the first, so if you didn't like that one you won't like this.
More solid world building, maybe even too much in parts, but it moves along at a good clip with plenty of action in between the strange treatises on slavery that begin to creep in. Ends on a cliffhanger leaving you wanting to read the next one.
Вообще не понимаю на хуя я это читала. Из серии "и ее прекрасные голубые глаза широко распахнулись навстречу фигуре воина". Забыть, срочно забыть.
Read several Gor novels back in the 70s
