https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123773.The_Dark_Child
Eh bien ... je n'ai pas vraiment aimé ce livre. Cela a bien commencé, mais l'intrigue est devenue inintéressante. Deux chapitres entiers ont été consacrés aux circoncisions ... EWWW! Cependant, je dois dire que j'ai apprécié la fin. C'était un livre bien écrit, mais l'intrigue ne m'intéressait pas du tout.Traduit en anglais:Well ... I didn't really like this book. It began well, but the plot became uninteresting. Two entire chapters were devoted to circumcisions ... EWWW! However, I must say that I appreciated the ending. This was a well written novel, but the plot did not interest me at all.
To be honest, it reminded me much more of gentle French childhood memoirs such as La gloire de mon père than what I have come to expect from African memoirs.The narrative winds along peacefully, describing Laye’s childhood in Guinea during the early part of the 20th century.
Written five years before Guinea’s independence from France, this book is one of the first major works of Francophone African Literature.
In view of this fact, I found it surprising how little France’s involvement in Guinea’s history and society was addressed in this book.
His parents, too, are caught in this conflict of wanting him to succeed but knowing that his success means his departure from their lives.Quite a bit of time is spent describing the circumcision rite, which may be of anthropological interest to some, but was for me more interesting as a symbol of the other changes he goes through in the book, the pain and fear at something new, the loss of the old, but also the anticipation of being a man, the pride he feels when he is given his own hut and his own grown-up clothes.My copy is from 1969, and made me realise a couple of things.
There seems to be some disagreement about whether The Dark Child is a memoir or an autobiographical novel; my library shelves it as nonfiction, though given the abundant dialogue, the author clearly took some creative license.Either way, it’s a nicely-written coming-of-age story of a boy from in a traditional village in Guinea in the 1930s and 40s.
Later chapters are spent on harvest and coming-of-age rituals.
It’s a nostalgic story, developing at a graceful, measured pace, with perhaps a bit of stereotyping for the benefit of foreign readers, though at the time apparently any portrayal of life in Africa as calm and cheerful was groundbreaking.
He opens a window for us into a world where spirits reside in every living thing and where a snake can speak and share knowledge with the leader of a clan.He also shows us his introduction to European science-based culture.
In one memorable chapter, Laye reminds us that politeness and good manners are never more important than in a small village.
He shows us that the small group of people in his grandmother's village who knew that they would always have to live and get along with each other developed a code of behavior that provided everyone with respect and dignity.
The Dark Child Camara Laye ★★★★This is the autobiographical account of the authors experience growing up in a village in French Guinea. Laye shares his childhood with the reader in an open and frank way, he lets us into his family, into his village and into his way of life. Layes childhood is an interesting mix of spiritual traditions and formal religion mixed together in a way that works and that doesn't appear disjointed.An almost poetical story of one boy's childhood this is a read that would appeal to those who enjoy honest writing with an insight into other cultures.
This memoir is an enjoyable read that is a picturesque coming of age story set in Africa. It's simply told without artifice or tremendous elaboration. We follow Laye's story as he is raised by his loving parents, attends primary school, falls for his first love, and finally becomes a man through a ritual circumcision. Unfortunately, the book ends on a bittersweet note and left me wanting more. Nicely rendered, but not likely to be memorable.
This book, which I read in one sitting, will always be close to my heart. I identified so much with Camara Laye because of my own firsthand experience of leaving my childhood home post-Katrina, during the time of the New Orleans diaspora. His detailed, slice of life account of the enchanting lives of Muslims in the village of Kouroussa(Guinea--French Africa) was very moving. I can't wait to discuss it in my "Literature of the African Diaspora" class!
Fuck this fucking shit bruh
First book I've read entirely in French, which I'm pretty proud of. It was an easy enough read for someone with 3-4 years of language experience.
the best <3
Smooth, leisurely read about a young man's childhood and education in Guinea. Tinges of the supernatural balanced with the universal.
I have always heard of Camara Laye, but never really got to read any of his writing till now.
This book, detailing the earlier part of his life in the French Gambia is simply amazing.
Its writing is brilliant, and there is no doubt it is a book to last.
So sad that I still don't know much about what happened from the time he went to France for further education, but Im going to find out.
Its similarity to Ngugi's book is that education is given a focal point in his dreams and desires, and that is always the beginning of a good life.
This is a wonderful little book.
Why it is on the 1001 books to read list is a mystery to me - I thought that was meant to be a list of novels but this is clearly a childhood memoir.The storytelling is unapologetically sentimental and extremely touching.
It is refreshing to read an account of an African childhood not defined by war, the slave trade, famine, or other atrocities.
This is a story of family love, deeply entrenched culture and custom, and the pull of a shrinking world in the early / mid 20th century.
This was a fascinating memoir of the author's youth growing up in the village of Koroussa, French Guinea.
It shows the simple life of a dark child living in the great plain of Guinea.
It is a very readable account as his words are rich with sincerity which flows through his language.
He wrote this account while attending school in Paris and it is very evident that he was missing his homeland very much.
I would recommend this book highly as I found his detailed account of the 'ceremony of the lions' which prepares boys for circumcision extremely worthwhile and a very interesting read.
***A coming-of-age novel, outlining how it was to grow up as a boy in Guinea back in the 30s and 40s. There were several little interesting aspects to this novel, such as the combination of traditional rites within an Islamic environment. But in terms of novels addressing the passage from a colonial/tribal state to the integration into a "civilized"/occidental society, I think that Achebe and Dangaremgba were much better. Cute, but not really exciting.
This is a good book, a memoir, Camara Laye tells us about his youth in Guinea. He shares with us the culture, family structure, spirituality of his people and his trip towards his own destiny. He wrote this book when he was in his twenties and studying engineering in France. He died in Senegal in 1980.
Now turning to the blurbs we have this from the BBC:“He combines the dignity and simplicity of his African heritage with an articulateness and subtlety of expression which he could not have achieved in his native language, but which was waiting for his employment in French...”We're definitely in a colonial landscape peopled by noble savages, aren't we?
Now turning to the cover (not the one shown on this site) we see a picture of the African child, but take a closer look and you'll see it's an English schoolboy that has been COLOURED IN!But enough of this gay banter.
I believe Camara answers that question in this passage from Chapter II:“Where did the praise-singer get his information from?
I read this for my African Francophone lit class and I believe it was a good introduction to the subject.
I have (I'm ashamed to admit it) read very little by African authors and was intrigued by the day to day explanations Laye provided.
In class, we did cover criticism of the novel and one of the critiques is that: 'it was a little too good to be true.'Was this because there was little to no conflict throughout the novel?
I disagree with this of course, and found it refreshing to show an alternative side to what we usually read about or think about in regarding African lit.
An enjoyable coming of age story about Camara Laye's childhood in French Guinea.
Laye takes you through a lot of critical milestones in his life in just a few pages.
Laye slows down to add detail when it matters and doesn't bog down the story with unnecessary information in other places.
The setting makes Laye's life interesting because it is unique and simultaneously underscores universal themes of home, family, and growing up.I do wish there had been a final chapter about his next trip home after his flight to France or some other final thoughts from his perspective as an adult.
read for 2018 Irish Meridians Challengereally enjoyedautobiographical, boyhood tales in Guinea in the 30s and 40senjoyed the simplicity of the account, worked well with the lifestyle and culture describedtouched on village life and agricultural practice, family, rites of passage, superstitions and educationmost of the other characters are lightly sketched, outside Camara, his mother and fatherinteresting social structure with polygamy, but little detail on his father's other wives, or his siblings
Really liked the first chapter and the third. There were fragments in other chapters I really loved and I thought the ending paragraph was very effective. So it really is 2 1/2 stars with parts up to 4. There was a slight anthropological feel to some of the writing that took away from the memoir aspect.
Jolie petite histoire africaine qui évoque les coutumes du pays de ce garçon
I loved how the author was so close to his family and culture.
Great book to get the feel of the culture of West Africa
... the temporary highways of exile... (p. 178)
Un beau memoir d'un jeune homme africain
Un beau récit autobiographique plein de tendresses, de respect
5 stars because the moment I finished the book I wanted 2 things:- the book to not end, I wanted more! What happened next!!!- to re-read the book once more.beautiful!
Muy eurocéntrico, lo que es bueno en que explica muchas cosas de Senegal
