https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28695.City_of_Golden_Shadow
The only clue she has is that the outbreaks of these comas coincide with the availability of access to the Net - a virtual reality internet that is what Second Life dreams of becoming.
And you can do it in full sense-surround 3D.Renie's brother, Stephen, engaged in the usual mischief that any kid with access to his own virtual universe might do, and finally got caught.
And, of course, there is Paul Jonas, a man trapped in an imaginary world, whose escape threatens the greatest dreams of the richest men the world has ever known.All of this, as the series title suggests, centers on the Otherland project, a virtual reality of monumental proportions.
Robert Jordan level wordulency, plus SF internet idea outdated before its publication date, minus appealing writing style, divided by Michael Springer's mid-semester attention span,times 90-bunjillion pages in four volumes,equals "FUCK YOU, TAD WILLIAMS, YOU GO TO HELL! YOU GO TO HELL AND YOU DIE! YOU FUCKIN' DIE! WHAT THE FUCK!" *Throws book against the wall, then walks over and urinates on it*(Okay, so I actually just took it back to Half Price Books. Whatever.)
I was finally sucked in by the end, but how did it take just under 800 pages to do that?I won't go into the story, I feel like I'm one of the last to finally discover Williams so it's weird describing it, but it's interesting and mysterious and I guess that's what kept my interest for so long.Additionally, I listened to this on audio and I really wonder if I would have pushed through had I been reading this page by page.
I'm glad I listened to it because I'm excited to see what happens now that the story can finally begin.
We have a lot of different characters, some are in the real world, some are in Otherland, and some spend a majority of their time in the Net (basically Virtual Reality which is super cool).
I thought these all really helped to flesh out the story even more.And some of the sections are told in second-person which I have to say can be very creepy and disturbing at times as you feel that you're really in the story (a pretty cool feature).Basically this book surprised, captivated and enchanted me, disturbed, intrigued and shocked me all at different moments and I do really want to know what will happen to our characters next.
Executive Summary: Slow in places, but this story really works for me. Interesting world building and decent characters has me looking forward to the continuing on this series.Audio book: George Newbern does an excellent job with this book. Good inflections and emotion, as well as a variety of accents. He is definitely a narrator that adds extra enjoyment to the book. Full Review My only experiance with Tad Williams prior to this book was his urban fantasy book The Dirty Streets of Heaven. I was
Interesting world building and decent characters has me looking forward to the continuing on this series.Audio book: George Newbern does an excellent job with this book.
My only experiance with Tad Williams prior to this book was his urban fantasy book The Dirty Streets of Heaven.
Then within the virtual reality, we experience many traditional fantasy settings and characters.
If you mix in fantasy like this does, all the better.The story took me a bit to get into at first.
I found Renie and !Xabbu refreshing as characters, but for me the large draw was the world building and the mystery of the Golden City.
I think Renie's quote from the middle of the book sums up my feelings entirely:"...We still don't have any answers or any way to bring my brother back, and the search just seems to get more complicated and more vague.
"It's like when you say a word too many times, and suddenly it doesn't mean anything anymore.
That's how I'm feeling."Reminder: That's just halfway through the book.The first volume of the Otherland series had an incredible concept, but a slow execution.
The characters were the best part and I found them far more engaging than their world(s) at several points in the story.
I love this series.
Heck the main characters are black South Africans (unlike in District 9, Tad's rendering is realistic and free of prejudice).*Smile*, little did I know that years later, my novel would be bought by the very editor who worked on this awesome series.I'm on page 268 and I'm enjoying it in the same way that I enjoyed it back in the late 90s.
Back in when I first read it, I was totally in love with his character.
But whenever Tad's with the Grail Brotherhood or Dread or Paul, I'm totally bored- that's when I start skimming.
I liked it, but I was confused, so I looked up some reviews on Amazon, and then decided that I didn't like it based on what people said, but then I kept reading, and then I liked it a lot and made my peace with it being just the first part of a four-book series, and then I was totally into it, and then they spent too much time on the villains and their complicated pseudo-Egyptian mythology simulation, and I am sick of completely evil antagonists who are cruel and wicked to a cartoonish point, and having to spend most of the last twenty pages in the company of Horus and his odd minions and their monologuing tales and now I am doubting if I'll continue with the series.
Our main character, Renie, decides to investigate when her younger brother Stephen ends up in one of these medically baffling comas.Then begins a dangerous hunt throughout both virtual reality and reality itself where no one is safe in either, corruption, killers, and many, many worlds historical, fantasy and so on, created on the net, with all the characters trying to find out answers to something which all seems to lead to the Otherland.There is so much to like about this book, through the characters and plot it explores the good, the bad and the ugly of the internet and future progression with its effect on humans of all backgrounds.
They and others are lured into a deadly quest by a vision of a great golden city, more realistic and magical than they ever thought they could find.Out in the real world, there's little Christabel Sorenson, upon whose earnest desire to help the funny-looking Mister Sellars the entire future of the Otherland rests.
Once you get going, things clip along at a good pace and you'll find yourself on page 943 in no time flat.The really fun part is re-discovering things in this series.
Fortunately, the book and the series are both amazing.The Otherland series takes place in the near future where the Internet has become fully interactive with rich people literally able to plug themselves into the net and others using less effective virtual reality equipment.
At the center of the plot is Otherland, an intense, virtual reality beyond anything anyone has ever imagined before.The series is global in scope and filled with a plethora of fascinating characters and locations.
The worlds featured in the book, both Otherland and the real world, are rich with detail and fascinating in their variety and complexity.
I got to p76. "Otherland" by Tad Williams starts with assorted quilt squares I didn't have the patience to wait for assembly. WW1 mud-soaked Paul explodes, climbs a cloud high tree-stem to a trapped bird-woman, chased by a Giant to awaken back in the trenches. South African college tutor Renie guides bushman !Xabbu through basic virtual reality scenarios, rescues her 11-year old brother from a dangerous sim club, then loses him to a coma, three weeks after her drunk father kicks the boy out to live with a schoolmate. Mercenary from tavern suddenly killed, suprising his gamer alter-ego.
Cyberpunk but with the emphasis on non-punk elements.Full review on my podcast, SFBRP episode #281. Really.
There is also the story of those running Otherland, some with more nefarious reasons than others...The entire plot is engaging, if sometimes a little confusing to keep track of who is where (especially at first, as the world and characters are introduced).
Williams, unlike many authors I've read recently, is able to describe the world and the technology organically through the telling of the story.
This made some of the characters or world aspects a little hard to understand at times (pronunciation-wise), but that didn't detract from the story.
Yes, it's slow, there's a lot of set-up and Tad Williams could probably cut a few hundred pages from (all?) his books and not lose much plot, but I loved every page.This came more than a decade before Ready Player One, and it is even older than The Matrix films.
Today, some of the tech and science is outdated, but the concept of virtual reality and what Tad Williams did with it, is amazing.The Otherland series mixes science fiction, South African folklore, fairy tales, and fantasy into a wild tale and that mix is what I loved most about it.
Really enjoyed this, lots of different worlds and good characters. No resolution at the end though, will just have to get the second book in the series to find out what happens next.
8.5/10This is the second series that I’m reading from Tad Williams and I have to say that I’m really impressed of how different it is compared to his most famous series, Memory, Sorrow and Thorn, although personally I quite liked it even if it’s not outstanding.In this series Tad Williams changes his style and goes to Science Fiction but he also raises his skill level as he has mixed Cyberpunk, lots of mystery and a touch of Fantasy that, I believe, makes all the difference!The story is set mostly in Africa, in a world far more technologically advanced than our own, where people are now using Virtual Reality for everything; even more than their actual life, doing whatever they want without limitations.
Alle begeisterten Rezensionen stimmen: Dieses SF-Epos, und so kann man es wirklich nennen mit seinen 1000 Seiten a 4 Bände ist atemberaubend und eine Achterbahnfahrt der Fantasie.Perfekt ist eine zukünftige eigentlich nicht mehr ferne Welt konzipiert, in der sich die Menschen sowohl im Realen Leben RL als auch in virtuellen Realitäten VR bewegen.
Dies ist auch der Grund, warum ich einen Stern abgezogen habe, das ist mir ein bisschen zuviel Cliffhanger und die Geschichte in sich zu wenig abgeschlossen.
I enjoy science fiction, computers, virtual reality, anthropology, history, sociology, political intrigue and all the other individual elements of this series.
Unfortunetly, I really disliked this book.I liked the little girl who got messages through her computer, and I liked the sick boy who created a virtual reality that was easier to live in.
I didn't read book three or four and don't intend to.
I have to really dislike a book to set it aside, and that it was a series from one of my favorite authors was really heartbreaking.
In the first installment of Tad Williams "Otherworld" series the reader is introduced to a future where the net and virtual reality are readily available to anyone with enough credits.
A virtual reality professor at a South African University, Renie Sulaweyo, becomes good friends with her student, !Xabbu, one of the last remaining African Bushmen.
Renie and !Xabbu become entangled in a conspiracy involving the most powerful and dangerous men in the world.
Williams weaves the sci-fi elements of networked computing and virtual reality with traditional South African folklore, to beautiful effect.
This novel, to me, is 780 pages of nothing.
When a new chapter starts, there is a tendency of character switching, so you are left with a few pages just trying to figure out which character you are focusing on.
If Williams only focused on Renie and !Xabbu, I would have been content with this novel, considering that's where most of the focus is on, anyways.Pros: When the story actually focus' on a single character and continues with the plot, it is actually pretty entertaining.Cons: Random breaks, no cliff-hanger chapter endings, unneccessary detail, random POV (point-of-view) character switching...
Williams' near-future sci-fi epic is a compelling exploration of the social/psychological costs and benefits posed by the advent of true virtual reality. A disparate cast of heroes find themselves trapped in an array of artificially constructed realities where death is an all too real possibility. Williams' pedigree as an epic fantasy author is evident in the scope of the narrative and the presence of a dark lord of sorts lurking at the heart of this web of invented worlds. Reading the whole series is a big commitment but I found it well worth the investment.
Impressive worldbuilding and interesting characters.
:DCity of Golden Shadow is a vast book that clearly sets up things for the next one but always coming up with new mysteries to be explored and not any real answers but done in a way that the characters all come across as intelligent though but still preserving a lot of the mystery though there are a host more questions raised once a certain city is found!
A large cast of unforgettable characters, written beautifully by Tad Williams, produce one of those stories that leave you empty and a little pissed off once it has finished.
If there was ever a story that should receive the cinematic LOTR treatment then this is it but I cannot help but think it wou;ld be a colossal disappointment, would Hollywood welcome two of the main characters - a black South African woman and her Kalahari Bushman student/friend with his apposite knowledge of Bushman myth?Thisd must be the biggest novel I have ever read and love it so much, I try to get everyone I talk to about books to read it.
The Matrix has them and they can't escape.
If you die in the Matrix do you die in real life?
They don't know yet and they don't want to find out.
I haven't read The Neuromancer, but I assume this book was greatly influenced by it.
I was hooked right from the beginning though some of the middle was quite repetitive at times with the "what could be happening....who could be behind this" questions but still a page turner.
You're left hanging at the end so it's another "a bit to thick and heavy to read in bed" book to deal with.
Looking forward to the next book in the series.
Grossartiges Hörspiel, das ich alle paar Jahre gerne wieder höre!
DNF at roughly 40 %. I just really wasn't digging this, it was dragging a lot for me and I couldn't really get into the story.
For her part, the girl thought it was fun to be a guy, but she has to sort out the way people react and treat her differently when they discover that she was lying for years.There's a blind woman whose virtual body looks very generic--but she is a pivotal character and not at all generic in personality.
Paul eventually meets up with the rest of the ensemble cast, other real people stranded in the vast Otherland network, unable to unplug.
Strange figments roam the Otherland worlds, virtual children who have the traveling privileges of real people (users), but who have no memories of any other life.
Tuttavia, circola voce che nei quartieri illegali del cyberpazio sia possibile sperimentare tutte le percezioni sensoriali amche senza le neurocannule.
Il primo volume vuole far luce su cosa causa il coma; perchè colpisce alcune persone ed altre no; se è reversibile; quali segreti nasconde l'Otherland; chi sono i boss che costituiscono la Grail Brotherhood oltre a quelli che conosciamo già; se è plausibile che le vittime siano state neutralizzate per aver visto qualcosa di illegale mentre gironzolavano in Rete.Tutti gli indizi portano all'INNER DISTRICT, la zona elitaria del cyberspazio che rimane off-limits per la maggior parte dei naviganti ed è passibile di denuncia per gli spavaldi.
