https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2108248.The_Cotton_Pickers
The 1st bk I read of Traven's was probably "The Death Ship" - wch details the slow decay of a sailor's life as a result of facets of 'modern' life that the author & I abhor in common - like nationalistic borders & parasitic capitalism (is there any other kind?).
Then I think I read 2 of the 6 "Jungle Novels" wch, according to a short description in the back of this bk, "describe the conditions of peonage and debt slavery under which the Indians suffered in Díaz's time." [ie: before the Mexican Revolution] These were extremely insightful political novels, as was "The Death Ship", & also GRIM - almost 'unbearable'.
A series of sketches, a slice of life south of the border on subsistence and less than subsistence wages, from cotton-picking to baking to a cattle drive...I've never read anything like this. It feels entirely autobiographical, a white man and Wobbly down and out and willing to do anything to keep body and soul together, self-reflective enough on race and class and labour to make it good rather than unbearable.
This is kind of a tough one for me to review. There was no plot. There were parts of this novel that were plodding. There were parts of this novel that were, more or less, just an outward polemic on the harsh nature of the relationship between people and capitalism. However...there were parts of this novel that were pure literary brilliance - small, well written anecdotes and episodes that left me intrigued and wanting more. So...I give it 4/5. Not as good as "The Death Ship", but I'm not dissuaded from reading more of his work.
What I like about his books is the honesty in which he portrays characters, never exaggerating nor lacking any necessary details. Sentimental where it has to bee and sometimes raw where it is needed.
The narrator, Gales, appears to have a sixth sense as he narrates his way through most of the situations by relating stories of the people he meets in his travels.
The narrator travels around Mexico doing odd jobs and suffering bosses who like him or don't.
He meets some characters on his way, telling their stories as he goes.
It's a dreamy little interlude after the rest of the novel.[return][return]Though I do think this Traven book is particularly odd, I still think it's worth reading, if only to get a feeling for Traven himself, as well as understand labor issues a little more deeply.
Another book about a rambling man, back in B.
Traven's old Mexican stomping grounds.
This one's not as depressing as The Death Ship.
Combines the aimlessness of Factotum with social commentary like Conrad or Sinclair.
Not quite as good as Sierra Madre.
The cattle drive at the end was a pretty good part but felt a little tacked-on.
Traven tells more stories per page than any other writer--every other line is a new story.
Even minor characters get the full treatment.This is a quick read that found me at a library paperback sale.
Definitely worth a look if you are a Traven fan.Someone somewhere knows who this guy was.
Farbig, aber auch nicht umwerfend spannend. Eigentlich eher eine Sammlung von Geschichten oder Szenen. Da sind mir die blassen Erinnerungen an die alte Vorabendserie lieber. 7/10

The narrator, Gales, appears to have a sixth sense as he narrates his way through most of the situations by relating stories of the people he meets in his travels.
The narrator travels around Mexico doing odd jobs and suffering bosses who like him or don't.
He meets some characters on his way, telling their stories as he goes.
It's a dreamy little interlude after the rest of the novel.returnreturnThough I do think this Traven book is particularly odd, I still think it's worth reading, if only to get a feeling for Traven himself, as well as understand labor issues a little more deeply.
Written in 1927, this book (at least for me) is prediction of Great depression 2 years after and describes fight of ordinary man against capitalism. Great book that can also be read as an political pamphlet which stands for a rights of ordinary people, unemployed, poor, union formations, etc. Little is known about B.Traven, but reading his books it can easily be imagined that he was a revolutionary and libertarian who fought (through his works and probably personally involving) against everything that capitalism and all kind of political oppression were guilty for. Thumbs up for this great book!
Interesting! Mexico just after the revolution from the point of view of a foreign drifter / laborer, illustrating life as he works different jobs in a variety of settings. The tone is very socialistic, though not unreasonably so. At times he explains the reasonings of his bosses, expands on the workings of the labor unions, and even adopts a critical stance toward his fellow laborers. His true neutrality, however, is best expressed by his accepting each one of his fellow humans purely the way they are.
This Bruno guy is So interesting and his novelistic look into workers rights and the power of unionization in mid 20th century America-Mexico is great fun. It's told around the travels and struggles of Gales, who knocks around farms and a bakery in search of a paycheck. People compare Traven to Steinbeck and I agree. A great story, cast of characters and larger meaningful searching all make a worthwhile read.
I like how the book is not exactly about cotton pickers and how it takes unpredictable turns. It kind of reminded me of that unconnected part in Sierra Madre near the beginning when the main protagonist went to work on an oil platform, but then Traven abruptly changed his mind about the course of the story and sent him back home. I read the last part as a social allegory. But maybe I'm reading too much into it, maybe it's only about cows. Nevertheless, you learn a lot from it.
traven is a fantastic storyteller, though i do not think this is his strongest effort. while his class sympathies are as evident here as in his other works, the cotton-pickers lacks some of the passion that pervades his other novels. the story, however, does fairly capture the milieu of the migrant/itinerant farm worker, and the inequalities that exist in agrarian cultures.
Traven structures his novels in this odd way. It's as if he goes from one tall tale to the next. This was is connected by labor and union issues, going from one job to the next. It doesn't build like a personality-driven novel; more like Brecht. Well worth it.
The author of this book also wrote the novel Treasure of the Sierra Madre. One of my favorite movies of all time!
MARXIST RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK.
Very much in the same vein of Traven's "Death Ship", even sharing some characters, but much more grim and tragic, less funny, and a bit more slight, without the astonishing, slangy prose.
