https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6048530-finger-lickin-fifteen
Book Review  4 of 5 stars to Finger Lickin' Fifteen, the 15th book in the Stephanie Plum mystery series, written by Janet Evanovich and published in 2009. Evanovich packed a lot of action into this installment, covering more than usual in Stephanie's crazy life. To start off, she's moonlighting for Ranger to help him figure out who's stealing from his business. Not for nothing, and though she may be getting better a bounty hunter and detective, how can Ranger not solve this on his own? And who
4 of 5 stars to Finger Lickin' Fifteen, the 15th book in the Stephanie Plum mystery series, written by Janet Evanovich and published in 2009.
Evanovich packed a lot of action into this installment, covering more than usual in Stephanie's crazy life.
But we know that ain't gonna happen because there'd be no story if Stephanie collected half of that fee.
All in all, this is one of the better ones and when I was thinking of putting the series down for a bit, this convinced me to give it a few more books before I decided.
Though I'm no longer a huge fan, I seem unable to NOT read the books at this point.
The irony I found in this one is that Stephanie herself is constantly lamenting in it that her life is at a standstill, that it doesn't appear that she has grown, that she still has the same crap apartment, job that she doesn't like but doesnt' hate, the same two men, the same back and forth between said two men..I thought for sure there would be some AHA!
Sadly it's no longer like that.
And, not only that but for some reason Janet Evanovich decided that the funny and zany antics of Stephanie Plum needed a new crucial ingredient: fart jokes.no, not so muchSeriously?
I just feel like she is either really out-of-touch with her audience, or she's just plain old out of ideas.
Probably both.just like Hollywood..The storyline in this one was boring and the side characters were too stupid to even be funny.
She breaks up with Joe occasionally just to give the readers some sort of hope about Ranger, but nothing ever comes of it.
Some reviewers are saying that they have lost interest because the plot is similar, the characters aren't growing, the romance is at a standstill, Stephanie is in the same crap job and same crap apartment (not the same crap car-she has blown up at least 4!)However that is part of the charm of these books for me.
If Stephanie got a great job, the whole bounty hunter theme would cease to exist.
Their characters sometimes make the books!
These books are not meant for their literary genius in the element of surprise, yet the ability of the author to keep the characters the same is almost a gift to her readers!
I seriously love this series. It is always so much fun, makes me smile, makes me laugh out loud, and never lets me down with the shenanigans that happen to Stephanie and her rag tag bunch of friends and family. A must read series, truly for anyone that likes a whole lot of humor, a bit of mystery, and a dash of romance.
*****Stephanie Plum's friend and co-worker Lula arrives at work in a frazzle, having just seen two thugs chop off a man's head.
The barbecue sauce company is offering a million dollar reward for the capture of Chipotle's killers, and Lula wants to win the prize.
Since Lula can't cook she teams up with Grandma Mazur, and the two wackos try to perfect a recipe for tasty barbecue ribs.
While all this is going on, Stephanie is chasing bail skips AND doing a side job for Ranger's security company, Rangeman.

- in this fifteenth installment of the Stephanie Plum series.Lula witnesses the murder of a celebrity chef.
Ranger needs help solving a breach within his security company.
Morelli and Stephanie have broken up due to an argument over peanut butter.
Stephanie stalks Morelli.
Stephanie's apartment catches on fire.
(Look for Lula hanging out Stephanie's car window topless!) Even though we STILL don't have resolution in the Stephanie/Ranger/Morelli love triangle and, in spite of the fact that Stephanie never seems to settle down or grow up, I look forward to the new installments in the series every June.
It's become very formulaic: every book, Stephanie will lose a car (most probably thru fire and/or explosion); every book, Stephanie's apartment will suffer some sort of damage; every book, Stephanie will end up in Ranger's bed (although it's usually fairly platonic) and yet she still has such "hot" feelings for Morelli; every book, Stephanie will end up losing a skip she's "this close" to apprehending, etc., etc., etc.
The only variation from pattern that this book offers is that Ranger is now seeking professional advice from Stephanie, a concept that is so stupid, considering how inept Stephanie is at that sort of thing.
I think this is one of the funniest Plum books.
Even though no one is trying to kill Stephanie lots of stuff catches fire and blows up.
Word of warning, though, if you read this in the company of others, they will look at you strange when you laugh out loud in a quiet room.
I'm thinking someone made a bet with Janet on how many fart jokes she could make.
Never the less, still lovin' it, and thinking it's hilarious.
Maybe I'm still a twelve year old kid at heart.Reread May 2018 — This time we have someone trying to kill Lula instead of Stephanie.
Finally I got me some dose of Ranger.
Not nearly as much as I wanted (can I please have a Ranger-centered book without Morelli?), but I admit I can live off of one "babe" for an embarrassingly long amount of time.
Ranger got himself in a bit of a pickle - someone's messing with his business, and he needs Stephanie to help figure out the culprit.
Only he can't choose exactly what superhero that would be."So you're choosing Ranger over me?""Rangeman.
There's bombs and explosions, a case of mass diarrhea and a couple of totaled cars (curtesy of Stephanie Plum).
I was excited to see if Janet could bring the series back to life but she did not.
Other series like this I've read which continue successfully, the characters grow, personally and professionally.
I learned nothing new about Ranger, Stephanie or Morelli, or Lulu, or Connie, or Vinnie or any of them.
These are brilliantly thought out characters and plots in the beginning books.
And, if she did do it in the book, he should called her on it.
The Lulu plot was long and too much.
Morelli was still hot and cold about Stephanie.
Please Janet, go a level deeper and save this series.
One of my many complaints in this book was that I got the feeling the author was trying to make Lula seem so unpredictable and funny -- i.e., I like to eat; therefore I will probably be a great cook, etc.
Not cute or even that funny.I'm also tired of the Stephanie-ruins-ANOTHER-car plotline.
I get that Jersey is like being on another planet, but I think even the aliens would take it a little more seriously than this.I can also do without the sexual banter that happens EVERY TIME Stephanie runs into Ranger or Morelli.
Stephanie Plum strikes again! She should have a fire truck permanently assigned to follow her to put out all the burning cars, apartments, and even friends.All the usual cast of bond enforcement people, cops and crooks (especially deviants) are included for a very funny tale punctuated by madcap killers, trips to Cluck-in-a-Bucket and our very own cross dressing fireman Mr. Clucky, the dancing chicken.Stephanie's adventures with Ranger, Lula and Grandma make for a fun read. I can just imagine the movie (except I have trouble casting Morelli and Ranger).
Stephanie Plum is after the bad guys again. Lulu is a witness to a decapitation and the killers are after her. Stephanie and Joe Morelli are not together. Ranger has asked Stephanie for help on a case. There are cars blown up, all sorts of fires and the usual.mayhem that makes this series so wonderful!
I loved this one just as much as the other books in the series. They are all a guilty pleasure of mine and I can always guarantee that I will have a good laugh whenever I read a Stephanie Plum novel. Highly recommended of course!
It’s as if everyone is a caricature of themselves -- Dad mumbling at the TV, Mom crossing herself, Grandma exclaiming, “Ain’t that a pip?” And I missed the subtle character building that had gone on in earlier books.Of course, as I was thinking that, Stephanie’s dad made a remark about the ceiling plaster that had me rolling on the floor.So while I didn’t enjoy Finger Lickin’ Fifteen as much as other books in the series, overall I did feel like I was getting to visit old friends, and there were glimpses of characterization that helped me stay in love with the series even though I had so many problems with this particular story, so despite my problems with plot and character, there were still lots of things to love -- and thus a fairly high rating.
Instead, this 15th book in the series has Stephanie Plum still relying on her male friends/lovers to bail her out and help her do her job (and Lula doesn't seem to do any work at all!) and still unable to choose between Ranger and Morelli.
Wouldn't you think that in 15 years (or even in 4 years if each book only covers a season), she would have learned how to apprehend these bozos?In this entry in the series there are 2 main threads to the plot -- two killers whom Lula saw decapitate a man are now trying to kill Lula because she was a witness & someone is messing with Ranger's security business by breaking into his clients' premises.
I felt there were too many separate storylines going on in this book to the point where all organization is lost.
I was partially confused with keeping track of all of Stephanie's FTAs, Stanley Chipotle's murderers, and Ranger's robber situation.
I also felt that the Chipotle murder (the main case of the novel) was wrapped up a little disjointedly.
Nonetheless, the book does have its strong points.
Also, the storyline of the Chipotle murder was pretty different from other crimes in the series, and I did enjoy Grandma Mazur and Lula's adventures in the kitchen.
It seems like on every third page of this book Lula lets go another big one.
Now if RANGER let go a big one, that would be truly hilarious!
She is a fat, black, loud former prostitute who lives to eat fried chicken and have sex.
Not because I am a fat, black, loud former prostitute who lives for fried chicken and sex, but maybe, mostly, because I am not.
I believe most sincerely though that most fat, black, loud former prostitutes have more to them than this series would indicate, and would it kill Evanovich to give this character a little depth?
Basic InfoFormat: AudioPages/Length: 6hrs and 18minsGenre: MysteryAt A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: Triangle.
Cliff Hanger: ehTriggers: n/aRating: 3.5 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot: 7Characters: 7World Building: 7Flow:  7Series Congruity: 8Writing: 7Ending: 7Total: 7In DeptBest Part: Fire!Worst Part: No sexual tension!
Thoughts Had: eh!; NAKED!ConclusionContinuing the Series: yesRecommending: yesShort Review: NAKED RANGER.
AND FIRES!
That's sums up this whole book.
Ranger is naked twice but Stephanie doesn't take advantage.
There is like 4 or 5 fires throughout the book.
I was kinda hoping for a third wheel to enter in the shape of a sexy fireman ;)Misc.
Book Boyfriend: Ranger!Best Friend Material: Still Lula.Review in GIF Form:
Pure fluff, and I LOVE IT!!
I laughed the entire 3 1/2 hours it took me to read this.
A whole lot of BBQ and Lula is the center of attention in this one after she witnesses a murder and the thugs spend the entire book trying to kill her off.
I don't want the series to end, but how long can Evanovich sustain the Stephanie/Morelli/Ranger triangle before we get sick of it.
I'd rather the series end on a high note than dwindle into boredom and tedium (the way Patricia Cornwall's series has).
This book was more about Lula than Stephanie but it's fine by me 'coz it did not lack anything in the humor department. The storyline, though...can't say the same for it. It seemed too haphazard and oddly paced most of the times.These books are highly entertaining nonetheless and I shall read the next one soon. :D
This is such a fun book! One of the funniest ones yet. Imagine all those family dinners - in this book, Mom is trying to fix Stephanie up with a future husband and keeps asking blind dates to dinner for her. Then there is the barbeque - assuming you can picture Lula, Stephanie and Grandma Mazur cooking. All in all, the more absurd and ridiculous the scene, the harder I laughed.
This book was lacking all away around. The same plots, there just is no substance. Stephanie needs to be growing, and she just is a mess. I'm sorry Ranger would not put up with that, he would be finding some other company to keep. I was expecting to much from this book, so I was deeply disappointed. Wait for the paperback or check it out at the library.
I am not sure I will continue with this series. Nothing original in the last 5 or 6 years. Stephanie still doesn't have her act together, she still can't commit, she still has her cars blown up. It is getting VERY tiring. Too much of a formula story. Very disappointing.
It's typical of the last few Plum books: funny in spots, too silly in others. I was excited about the Ranger plot, but that turned out to be very unsatisfying in the end. As usual, I enjoyed the first half of the book more than the second half.
I would give this book 0 stars if I could.Unlike many of the reviewers, this is the first book I've read in the Stephanie Plum series.
What i found was an infuriating read that I considered ripping up and throwing in the trash several times.I had a huge problem with Stephanie Plum and the rest of the female characters in the book.
The male characters are not that much better either.As for the plot, that's not very good either.
Stephanie blows up a car.
The ending wasn't even that good and came out of nowhere.For your own sanity, skip this book.
Ugh. I really enjoyed the first several books in the Stephanie Plum series.
Half way through the book the reader is still not sure what the mystery is, exactly, since there has been no build-up of tension.
The jokes are all variations of ones that Evanovich has told in the past 14 books, and the banality of the humor has gotten lower than it has ever gone.
The solution to the mystery was so unbelievably dull that I wanted to throw the book across the room.Evanovich is better than this, smarter than this, and funnier than this.
Here's hoping she retires Stephanie Plum and invents another world in which we can enjoy her talents.
I've read all the books in the series and it's gone down hill for the last few books.
I think it's time to stick a fork in Stephanie Plum, she's lost all the fun.
I had high hopes in this book bringing back some of the great characters and spark of laughter it once had but for me it's gone and as lame as this book was it's probably never coming back.
Maybe I'm being too harsh, I can see where if someone who hasn't read the whole series might find enjoyment, but it was a stick in the mud.
