https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10790039-williwaw
the williwaw results from the descent of cold, dense air from the snow and ice fields of coastal mountains in high latitudes, accelerated by the force of gravity".the novel was published in 1946 by a very young Gore Vidal and is based on his experiences during his Alaskan harbor duty.
but it is still quite clear that even in his first novel, Vidal was a writer of much talent whose powers would only increase with age.this is a book that I would have repeatedly fallen asleep to if I had read it at home.

A short but well-done novel that is set in World War II, in the Aleutian Islands. Caught in a storm while taking three officers to a nearly port. As the storm worsens, the crew and captain fight for survival and when the storm subsides, someone turns up missing. It's not quite a mystery, but I loved how the atmosphere and tension was created in this. It's a short novel, but there's hardly any wasted words here. It was listed as part of the Guardian's 1000 must read novels. Four stars overall, and recommended.For the longer review, please go here:http://www.epinions.com/review/Gore_V...
Superbly drawn characters and a palpable claustrophobic atmosphere. Great debut novel by one of America's finest.
Nineteen-year-old boys fight our wars for us and apparently, they also write our great, war novels. Vidal, who in real life grew up at West Point, writes of a WW II army transport boat in stuck in a windstorm off the Aleutian islands. It's less gritty than Norman Mailer's "The Naked in the Dead," but more eloquent in its details of daily life.
It would be a bit of a stretch to call the novel a murder mystery but it is still an enjoyable read giving some insight into what life was like during wartime in the army merchant marine. The book is all the more impressive as it was written by the then 19 year old Gore Vidal.
Does a very good job of evoking the feeling of what I can only assume was an incredibly harsh, difficult environment.
The pacing is odd, and it's a huge stretch to call it a "murder-mystery" (as the book cover does).
(view spoiler)[The "murder" occurs in the last 10% of the book, there is no mystery as to how it happens, and the book barely addresses the investigation into it.
(hide spoiler)]I eventually warmed on the characters, but for the first half of the book I had a difficult time differentiating between the various sailors.
First novel written by Vidal. Story is set on an Army ship that is taking three passengers along the coast of Alaska when a severe storm (the Williwaw) hits. Parallel to the outside storm is a storm brewing between two shipmates. Absorbing book which draws the reader in well.
A simple story, but intriguing. Takes too long to get to the good stuff, and then has a pretty interesting twist that unfortunately it doesn't meditate on long enough for my taste. But it works as a whole and that's what matters.
brilliant
A good story set in the Aleutians during WW II.
This was my first Gore Vidal book. I can't say I loved it. Good plot, exciting, etc., but character development wasn't great and some of the dialogue felt forced.Vidal wrote the book at a young age, and that shows, to my mind. I'll have to read some of his later work to get a better read on Vidal overall.Having read Michener's Alaska, I enjoyed revisiting some of the places on the Aleutians. But overall, I wasn't thrilled with the book.
It's a WW2 novel with no military action, the military is merely a setting to create heirarchical tension between masculine clashing egos, symbolized in classic man v nature fashion by an alaskan storm, the titular williwaw.
the novel leans hard on foreshadowing and the chronological events could be juggled around a little to create a stronger chord of drama, but as we leap from storm to murder plot, vidal approaches the novel's climax in such a harrowing and unconventional way that its nonending feels like someone stabbing a note on a piano and then walking away as the sound quietly fades out.
I was occasionally bothered by the omniscient narrator’s head-hopping, but overall Williwaw is a pretty decent first novel, especially considering that Vidal was probably still a teenager when he did most of the writing.
It makes me wonder how many manuscripts/trunk novels were packed around by GI aspiring-writers during the war, how many didn’t come back, and how many more didn’t come back having been written in Japanese, German, or Russian.
With the 55 million lost during the war, it’s probably impossible to fathom the loss in terms of creative ideation.
I decided to read Vidal's debut novel out of curiosity and because I'm interested in World War II stories. It's good. The setting in the Aleutian Islands is the most memorable thing about it, but the characters and plot are well handled too. What intrigues me is that this came out five years before "From Here to Eternity" and "The Caine Mutiny". Both of those books are much longer and richer, but all three share a good deal of subject matter.
His first novel (I think). Amazing that he was so mature at 21 to produce this. I went in thinking it wouldn't be so great. But it's actually very well done. Polished, with already a great sense of the nuances of human relations, contextual morality, and the drama and tenseness of the story are excellent.
In my usual mode of reading recently deceased authors I picked this up on my Kindle because I liked the title. Who knew that Gore Vidal was stationed in the Aleutian Islands during the WWII. Fascinating character study of men at sea during a horrendous storm (Williwaw) and their psychological machinations.
Williwaw was Gore Vidal's first book. The writing is a bit amateurish, but then Vidal was only 19 years old and serving on an Army ship in Alaska during WWII when he wrote it. This is not to be confused with a great book, but I just admire Gore Vidal so much. Vidal was born a member of the American ruling class, but he had one of the great FU attitudes of all time.
Stupid Goodreads failed to save my review of this book when I first hit save. Not going to write what had been a lengthy piece all over again. In summary - excellent story - very much a slimmed down version of Naked and the Dead. Terse, factual non-judgmental narrative - quite gripping
Solid story telling, about a transport vessel and crew that gets caught in a "Williwaw", or hurricane-like storm in the Aleutian Islands and the interpersonal human dramas that unfold during the trip.Vidal's first book, written when he was nineteen, got good reviews and is worth the read.
The musing's of a bored 19-year old Gore Vidal produced this military-disaster book. While certainly not the best introduction to the author, it's fine if you need your Vidal fix.
For hard-core Vidal fans only, who'd read his first novel only out of curiosity.
Nice JackLondonian tale of human endurance amidst a savage environment.
Ended weird. But interesting to see a view of being at sea around the Aleutians.
