https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16181.The_Constant_Princess
TOBG was like eating cupcakes while watching SVU re-runs.
The Constant Princess, however, was like eating Doritos while watching Grey's Anatomy.
The problem, dear Philippa, is that just as Henry VIII liked his ladies, you seem to love italics.
You write whole pages in italics, which in my opinion are best used by teenaged girls IMing with their friends.
When you write whole passages in italics, you are just inviting me to skim or skip them entirely.
Especially when they're written by a character who sounds like a teenage girl even when she's old.
In this book, Gregory purports that the marriage between Catalina (Katherine) of Spain and Arthur Tudor was a love match and their union was most definitely consummated - a secret they kept from everyone.
How I shall be the pretender who becomes queen." "At Arthur's request I told the greatest lie a woman has ever told, and I will tell it to the very grave...He asked me to say that we had never been lovers and he commanded me to marry his brother and be queen...I was constant to my promise." But you all know the *rest of the story* so I'll not rehash it one more time, I'm just here to discuss the reading experience.
"Prințesa statornică" de Philippa Gregory este un roman de ficțiune istorică despre Catherine de Aragon, Infanta Spaniei, Prințesa de Wales ca soție a Prințului Arthur și, mai pe urmă, regina Angliei din 1509 și până în 1532 ca soția pretențiosului rege Henric al VIII - lea al Angliei.
Philippa redă foarte frumos copilăria, adolescența Catherinei, începând de la vârsta de cinci ani (de la trei ani era deja Prințesa de Wales) și maturizarea ei, sfârșind cu anul 1529 când a avut loc procesul divorțului dintre Catherine și Henric al VIII - lea.
It covers Catalina's childhood in Spain, her betrothal to Arthur (Henry's older brother), their marriage, his death, her agonizing wait to convince the King of England that marrying her to his 2nd son was the best solution to all the problems of dowry, etc, and the early years of her marriage to Henry and her rule as Queen of England.I found the beginning part about her childhood and her marriage to Arthur interesting.
Even as a younger girl, she comes off as a bit of a drip and killjoy, as if she was born old with the knees of a Carmelite nun.So it was a nice change to see the focus on Katherine as a child and young bride to the ill-fated prince Arthur Tudor, where she is vivacious, coquettish, and worldly in the ways of political matters (thanks to her parents' God-driven crusades, etc.) More familiar territory here is her early years of marriage to Henry up to her victory as temporary Regent against the Scots at Flodden Field.I thought the book was tightly written.
oh what a marvellous story.
The most remarkable element of this book is the emotions it evoked within me--I know the end of Queen Katherine and her dignified but fruitless life, and that colored my reading of the story.Katherine is not a particularly sympathetic character--she comes across as proud, arrogant, stubbourn, and far too dedicated to the belief that her God had intended her to be Queen of England.
In the book, Katherine was ambitious, and it led her to lie, decieve, even disregard her morals to achieve her goals.
You cannot take people like Catherine of Aragon and fashion some carte blanche story about her; there are facts and documentation which must be adhered to.
Philippa Gregory gives the reader such a keen sense of this woman; this Catalina, Infanta of Spain more commonly known to us as Catherine of Aragon, betrothed to Henry V111.
It follows her story from aged five in 1491 on the battle fields of Spain to 1529 in England at the Papal Legate to hear King's Great Matter.
A compelling look at Catherine of Aragon, the first wife of Henry V111; this is a must read.
4.5*
The narration is really only told from Katherine of Aragon’s perspective, so there is very little need for voice changing, but Ms. Tanner is able to perform Henry and Harry etc.
PLEASE tell me SOMETHING ENTERTAINING!)Since Katalina of Spain was a baby, she has known her future- to be Queen of England.
When her dream comes true and Katalina marries Arthur, she becomes Princess of Wales and quickly begins plotting and planning for her future reign.
When Arthur dies, Katalina knows her destiny still remains- to be Queen of England.
Katherine (Katalina) eventually marries Henry the VIII, and this story tells the tale of her rise (and fall).
I am completely fascinated by this time period. It is like reading a soap opera. It also helped me to understand how King Henry could be so cruel and it made me sad for Queen Katherine. This was a beautiful love story and a story of perseverance. I loved the descriptions of the spanish court. It certainly made me glad that I am not royalty.
This would be bad enough, but oftentimes these character's thoughts segments reveal that internally Catalina's thoughts directly contradict the actions she undertakes as described in the preceding third person perspective scene, leaving the reader to feel like they've been hit in the face by a frying pan out of the blue.The book also suffers from frequent examples of redundant repetition.
Inexplicably, Gregory chooses not to make this the story's climax or end the novel at this point, but plods on for several more chapters into the first couple of years of Henry's reign, in which largely nothing happens at all except Katherine schemes to get her husband out of the country so that she can tempt the Scots into invading England and defeat them in a decisive battle.
Unfortunately, most of the time, these 1st person POVs just repeated the exact same things that were discussed in the 3rd person sections--or, worse, repeated the same point over and over again ("I was Infanta of Spain", "I was born to be princess", etc.).In the beginning, the switching of POVs made some sense; something would happen to Catalina, then she would think about what happened.
I don't care how historically inaccurate this story may be, it totally swept me up and I loved it-- and I'm not usually one for historical romances. I read this two years ago and I just remember feeling all warm and fuzzy and then heartbroken and angsty as I went on this journey with Katherine of Aragon. Favorite book of the Tudor Court series by far-- reading the Other Boleyn Girl after this felt like a big disappointment.
This book is, in my opinion, Gregory’s best novel.
Gregory’s novels can lose this balance every now and then and she is sometimes guilty of repetitive phrases that can force your mind to wander.
It was a little hard to get into at first, as military history was my downfall in college and it begins describing Catherine of Aragon’s life as the youngest daughter of the Catholic warmongers Ferdinand and Isabella.
I recommend this novel for amateur and professional historians everywhere but beware: you must have not let your historical prowess get the best of you.
Here is an interesting combo: The Constant Princess is written mostly in third, but with about just as much in first-person asides that aren't really justifiable in any way.
I don't really get what she's trying to do; obviously, many of her books revolve around Henry VIII, so writing each first-person would not have been too repetitive, and would have added to the strength of her Tudor novels, which is her uncanny ability to see these characters each in a different light.
The secondary characters aren't that great, however, despite--and this is what gets me--the switches to third-person narration.
It is, in a word, an anachronistic invention to propound a modern view.You would think this would mean I did not enjoy this book, but you would be wrong.
I did not, however, feel that I closed this book understanding any more about Katherine and her time, and while I agree (view spoiler)[that Katherine was not a virgin when she married Henry (hide spoiler)], I do not think Gregory has even come close to deciphering the whys and wherefores of what came after Arthur’s death.
Για την Philippa Gregory έχω ακούσει πάρα πολλά και ξέρω ότι είναι μία από τις δημοφιλέστερες συγγραφείς στο χώρο του ιστορικού μυθιστορήματος, ως τώρα όμως δεν είχε τύχει να διαβάσω κάποιο βιβλίο της.
Η ευκαιρία μου δόθηκε τώρα που είπα να ρίξω μία ματιά στην περίφημη ιστορία με τις γυναίκες του Ερρίκου του 8ου, οπότε έπιασα το πράγμα από την αρχή με αυτό το βιβλίο για την Αικατερίνη της Αραγωνίας.
Η εξιστόρηση των γεγονότων πριν από το γάμο της με τον Ερρίκο αν και είναι αρκετά αναλυτική δεν ένιωσα ότι αποδίδει με τον καλύτερο τρόπο τη δυστυχία της και την απομόνωση της.
Let me start by saying this: If you hated The Other Boleyn Girl for it's lack of exciting events and boring pace, good luck getting past page 100 of The Constant Princess.Now, I'm no fan of Philippa Gregory.
Ugh. I simply read her books because I like the history.After enjoying The Other Boleyn Girl, I went on to the Boleyn Inheritance, finally deciding to go back in time with the Constant Princess.
The Constant Princess provided an insider's view into the world of Queen Katherine and Henry.
I'd read The Constant Princess, then The Other Boleyn Girl, then The Boleyn Inheritance in order.
Gregory i uz ovu sam knjigu shvatila zašto je Gregory "na samom vrhu pisaca povijesnih romana", s posebnim zanimanjem za dinastiju Tudor čiju je povijest iscrpno istražila.Knjiga je izvrsna, pokazuje nam Katarinu Aragonsku u potpuno drugom svjetlu od onoga u kojem je obično prikazuju (kao pobožnu, "stariju" kraljicu koja nije željela zanijekati svoj brak s Henrikom VII i time mu omogućiti ženidbu s Ann Boleyn, a do koje je ipak došlo; znao je i kao majku kraljice Mary, koja je, kratkotrajno, prije Elizabete, sjedila na engleskom prijestolju i bila prva žena na tom položaju).Katarinu pratimo od njezina djetinjstva, na veličanstvenom španjolskom dvoru, budući da je Katarina bila kćerka španjolskog kraljevskog para Ferdinanda i Izabele; a to svoje, kraljevsko, podrijetlo nije nikada zaboravila.
When I saw this at the library and all the rave reviews it got I thought this would be an interesting take on Catherine of Aragon's story.
To me, she is one of the most interesting of Henry's wives, and I thought it would be fun to read a totally different theory about who she was.
Sadly, it didn't work for me.
So admittedly, I never really got very far with this.Part of it could've been the narrator's breathy "I'm a princess!!!" voice (which made the childish little Catherine even harder to tolerate for me.
given he upbringing) also didn't work for me.
Filled in the gaps and questions I had about Catherine of Aragon before she was Henry VIII's wife.
I liked Prince Arthur too and I wondered how history might have changed if Henry had never inherited the throne.
Gregory doesn't give us an entirely accurate account of Tudor history.
No one can be certain if Catherine's first marriage was ever consumated but I liked the angle that the author went with this.
I certainly have a new respect for Catherine of Aragon.Just a few things I'd like to note.
If you're a fan of the Tudors you should give this a go.
Repetition and inane lexicon aside, her descriptions are vapid and uninspiring, as is the fictional love story upon which the entire novel is based.Katherine of Aragon no doubt had a fascinating life.
The whole thing reads like a historical Mills & Boon, and not a particularly fascinating one at that.After finishing the book, and remembering embarrassingly little of my history, I had a quick glance through the Tudor queen’s Wikipedia page, to bring myself up to date on the later years of her life.
The fictional relationships and descriptions are simply dull, which is beyond frustrating since this was all Gregory had to work at in order to create an interesting novel.
This is the attitude and the outlook she would have to have to endure her later abandonment.I don't know the evidence on which history rests a judgment that Arthur was too sickly to consummate his marriage, but Gregory doesn't buy it...
His deathbed charge to his wife, while not realistic for the time, does have some novelistic development in how the young couple plans their future reign.History pays little attention to the emotions of this abandoned 16 year old girl/widow.
Gregory is at her best as she imagines Catalina's thoughts and feelings in the 7 years uncertain wait for Henry VIII.
Historical Fiction is now one of my favourite genres, even though I haven't read much, because of its pacing, character development, and plot.
Her determination, will power, and belief in herself allowed her to accomplish almost impossible feats and made reading her story and perspective a joy to read.Overall, The Constant Princess was the perfect book for me to read as my first venture into this new genre.
If you enjoy slower paced books, history, and a kickass main character then The Constant Princess is the book for you.
9 de 10*Quando se alia uma rainha determinada, com um sentido de missão como Catarina de Aragão com uma escritora brilhante de romances históricos, como Philippa Gregory, temos este resultado – um livro fantástico que nos transporta para a História desta mulher que por tanto passou, mas que nunca baixou os braços.Comentário completo em:https://abibliotecadajoao.blogspot.co...
I haven't read any Philippa Gregory books before, but have wanted to read them.Before reading this book, I didn't know much about Katherine of Aragon, Henry VIII's first wife.
This was a fascinating look at her life, and I was reading about her on Wikipedia also.
It was also interesting reading about life in King Henry's court.The switching between 1st and 3rd person POV during the book was an interesting way of writing too, though sometimes the long passages in italics was hard to read.I'm looking forward to reading more books by Philippa Gregory.
3,5 Sterne
In this book, Philippa Gregory tells us the story of Katherine of Aragon, a Spanish princess who became Queen of England.
The story begins with Katherine (still know as Catalina) as a child, growing up in the battlefields while her parents, Queen Isabella and King Ferdinand, drove the Moors out of their country.
This way, Katherine of Aragon becomes what she had always believed she would become: Queen of England, the ruler of one of the greatest empires the World has known.I liked this book well enough, but didn't find it perfect.
I enjoyed this view of a younger, more passionate Katherine of Aragon. While I know better than to assume it is historically accurate, I enjoyed this tale. I especially enjoyed reading about Granada and the Moors. Although, I think the author should have gone forward to the end of Katherine's life. I know her later days have been well covered, but it was a bit of a cop out to leave out so much of her story.
