https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11922.Stolen
*** 4 ***A buddy read with my friend V at the MacHalo Freaks!  "...“Another werewolf thing. Like most animals, we spent a large part of our lives engaged in the three Fs of basic survival. Feeding, fighting and... reproduction.” ..." This was so much fun! Not ha-ha fun, but it was engaging and very intense! The first book was mostly us being introduced to Elena and Clay, her lover and mate, who had turned her into the werewolf she is now. Despite them being comfortable and lovey-dovey at this ti
The first book was mostly us being introduced to Elena and Clay, her lover and mate, who had turned her into the werewolf she is now.
Despite them being comfortable and lovey-dovey at this time, it wasn't all rainbows and roses after he bit her and made her into the first living female werewolf.
I am not giving up the ending, but you guys have to read it, even if the first book seemed to info-dump heavy to flow easily.
Give the second book a try before quitting the series, that is all I need to say:) 
While I was initially hoping for more of the same, i.e., Clay, Elena and The Pack, I knew that the Were world would not be the main focus of this story.
There are still chemistry filled moments between Clay and Elena, their relationship still evokes butterflies and laughs, though thankfully, they have moved beyond their troubles that plagued them in Bitten.
What Elena finds; however, is an intent pair of witches desperately attempting to contact her with the hopes of enlisting the pack's assistance in tracking down a scientific group who is capturing people for an occult menagerie.
Some of the actions of Elena, Clay, and Jeremy fall very much in the moral gray area, if you were to consider them human beings, with the ascribed moral absolutes that go along with humanity.
While a part of me was somewhat troubled by these killings, I couldn't escape the reality of the fact that those that Elena, Jeremy, and Clay killed were men and women who had showed a lack of respect and value for the lives of the paranormal beings they had stalked, kidnapped and held captive.
And in this story, you can see that Elena does love him just as much, whereas in Bitten, she was running from that feeling and trying to avoid acknowledging that she loved Clay.
Kelley knows how to write her characters strong and passionate!This series is definitely for adults (although, there is a YA series if you're interested...), due to some of the brutality the story can get into.
Knowing that their relationship builds well over multiple books, I can look back and be impressed with how Kelley built them over time.
The other characters and their relationships are also very strong, but these two really shine in the Elena books.Kelley will pull you in and have you hooked almost instantly.
She just happens to perform a slightly different calculus than Clayton when deciding whether or not to kill someone, and comes down on the 'not' side slightly more often.However, since she values fitting in, and is aware that humans tend to frown on cold-blooded murder, she would like to not be a murderer.
Also, this book is where the reader first meets Paige, who comes across as fairly annoying, which is awesome, although I think it may be why I never really like Armstrong's books where she is the protagonist.
Something was just missing, but the series is really good, definitely worth to read.In Stolen we get to read about Elena again, the heroine from book 1.
While in book 1 it got a bit annoying to see them fighting and Elena trying to avoid him, in this installment we see them extremely in love with one another and totally comfortable with it, which was a very positive change.
I will be reading more books in the series, although I am extremely disappointed to see they are not about Elena and Clay, but about Paige, a character I did not care at all.
I've just finished Stolen which is the sequel to Bitten. As you can expect with Bitten, the writing was the same quality. The old characters that we love (the ones that appeared in this novel) were great.The storyline was intense and gripping.I got frustrated with the "Stolen" part of the story and wished that there'd been just a little more Clay sneaked in.Other than that, if you liked the first then you'll like this book!
Elena is investigating someone selling info about werewolves but finds her contacts to be a pair of witches instead, wanting to warn her about a secretive organisation who are abducting creatures of the otherworld: witches, shamans, half-demons, who want a vampire - and a werewolf.After dealing with her incredulity (for some reason, despite being a werewolf herself, she never considered the possibility that there'd be other supernatural races around), she and Jeremy, her Pack Alpha, attend the meeting between the two witches, Ruth and Paige, a shaman called Kenneth, a vampire called Cassandra, and the half-demon Adam.
Plus I got my wish in the end.I really saw the similarities between this series and Keri Arthur's Riley Jensen books - Arthur was no doubt greatly inspired by these slightly earlier books, and the influence is there.
2.5 stars I read this book to fill the Shifters square of my 2018 Halloween Bingo card.I just don’t know quite know why this series doesn’t grab me.
It had been a year since I’d read the first book and I was actually looking forward to this second installment.
What good is supernatural strength if you haven’t got the brains to back it up?
The sex seems gratuitous to me, not really moving the plot along, just thrown as “characterization” I’m guessing.However, I haven’t given up.
She goes from fearing one horror and struggling to survive one situation, then the game changes completely on her where she has to start all over again.The lead up with the supes meeting was interesting - no longer is the book about a lone werewolf pack, but we get unique witches, Adam (loved him, he's fascinating), and other critters.
Unlike most supe societies that irritate me, the bonding of this pack works so well it feels like a true family and genuine affection.It wins with pacing, anticipation, the horror of being caught, the fascinating time spent inside the prison, the saving wrap-up, a finale battle that suited Elena's personality and rang true - top this off with great characterization, and I think this could easily become a favorite series.
But we are quickly taken beyond Elena's werewolf setting as she is suddenly introduced to a completely foreign and new to her world of supernaturals - witches, vampires, shamans, half-demons, sorcerers, etc.
The new world IMO is messier than her werewolf world created in "Bitten." Maybe I just need more time to get used to the idea.
While I am accepting of werewolves, vampires, and maybe witches, the idea of half-demons is a bit of a stretch for me.
3.5/5.0"Stolen" continues the story of Elena Michaels, a young woman turned werewolf, where the book, "Bitten" left off.
The relationships between Elena and her pack, especially Clay are just as real and engaging as in the former book.
The downside in this book is the inordinate amount and graphic nature of the violence.
It's not the generic "they killed the man" type or even the "they blew up the building with everyone in it" type.
It is the personal description of each kill with graphic imagery used repeatedly with relish that just isn't my cup of tea.
I did enjoy learning about the different groups, but what caught me most in the first book was the feel of the "otherness" of the werewolves and their interactions together.
I loved how Elena admitted she wasn't over her past and probably never would be.When Elena was back with Clay I found it extremely irritating that they never talked through anything.
I don't understand how they could have been back together the last 6 years and never have sat down and talked these things through.I loved the glimpse we got of Clay's point of view (sort of).
I loved Clay in this book.
WrensReads Review:So Stolen is the second book of this marvelous series.
They get superhuman powers from their good ole' dadWitches: Women with magicSorcerers: Men with magicShamans: Something about being able to deal with spiritsBut, luckily for us, it is still narrated by our favorite female-werewolf: Elena.This story starts out that Elena and Jeremy meet two women who claim they have evidence of werewolves existence.
This time though, she is captured and taken to some scientific headquarters were they have other super human people and know all about her (why does everyone know about her, seriously?
Elana is kidnapped about 1/5 of the way through the book and the story mainly focuses on her and her interactions with her kidnappers and other prisoners.
If there was just a better reason for the kidnapping and everything that happened the story would be much better.
It is kind of like in the movie Forest Gump when he runs across the country multiple times and its an amazing story and everyone thinks there is some great purpose behind it.
I could never understand the reason why the rich guy behind the kidnapping was doing it.
Not quite as good as the first book, but still worth reading.
There are so many supernatural stories that imply that there are hundreds or thousands of Vampires or werewolves or whatever, so much that they have their own complex societies.
But to propose that there were only a few werewolves denounces all that, and I found it very refreshing.But the second book befuddles that by introducing vampires, witches, demons and sorcorers; with a complex society of supernatural creatures.
But, setting aside all that, the book is quite good.
The bad guy in this is seriously a true sociopath that makes Clay's psychotic tendencies seem vanilla.Speaking of Clay I loved seeing him and Elena in a crazy yet functional relationship.
Elena is much more connected to her humanity which is a blessing and curse when she is kidnapped and has to deal with her own imprisonment, but those of other people she comes to feel responsible for.I loved meeting the new characters - the witches, vampires, and my favorite the half-demons.
I do hope that Adam is in it!For me the main downside was I felt one part kind of dragged (view spoiler)[her imprisonment seemed to last way too long (hide spoiler)].
All these things build her to a truly substantial character.One of my favourite parts in this story (apart from her reunion with Clay and her revenge on Ty) is when she's just sat with Jeremy and he's telling her antedotes of Clay's childhood, through her we learn a little more about Clay and Jeremy's past's and childhood's.
Learn to NOT be afraid to tell him outright that she misses him when they're separated and that she loves him, afterall Clay has more then proved he's never going to abandon her or leave her for any reason.
I like how she finds room for the little things that help the reader understand the nature of her characters.
It is a very atmospheric thriller, claustrophobic at times, and it kept me at the edge of my seat thought the book.The problem with me and this series is that I don’t have any feelings towards these characters.
Maybe it’s a matter of chemistry, like when you meet someone and they are fine but you just don’t have anything to say to each other.So, sure, I wanted Elena to escape and do nasty, NASTY, things to the main villain that tortured and humiliated her, but that’s it.
Since reading The Most Dangerous Game in middle school (high school?), I've, and I'm sure you've, come across six or ten other variations of it--movies, tv shows, books, etc.
This one is probably my favorite.That said, The Most Dangerous Game and any variation of it cannot help but be seriously creepy.What makes Armstrong's version better than the others is that it combines scientific (paranormal) research with the standard hunting of sentient beings.
Werewolves are witches and demons are WAY more exciting to hunt than your average human, right?Like I said.
Creepy.This book is also where we learn that the Otherworld series is not going to be limited to werewolves.
Stolen is the second installment in author Kelley Armstrong's Women of the Otherworld Series.
When I read the first book Bitten, I fell in love with Elena's conflict between living with the pack versus as a human.
I didn't enjoy the story in Stolen as much as I did the first book Bitten, but I liked it overall and I plan to continue the series.
He looks comfortable, doesn't he?"The Women of the Otherworld Series includes the following installments:#1-Bitten#2-Stolen#3-Dime Store Magic#4-Industrial Magic#5-Haunted#6-Broken#7-No Humans Involved#8-Personal Demon#9-Living with the Dead#10-Frostbitten#11-Waking the Witch#12-Spell Bound#13-Thirteen
I was pulled into the world, and I enjoyed the story and the characters.
For me, however, werewolves are not my favourite aspect of the supernatural world, thus I was left wanting more.
In Stolen, the supernatural world comes to light.
In some cases, there are characters we do not learn much about – but this all points to what is to come in later books.
And I can safely say I cannot wait to see what comes to be in the later books.Then there are the things that grated on me somewhat.The story itself was great.
BR with my MacHalo buddy, Choko!If you read the first book in this series, Bitten, and like me, you couldn't stand Elena and you didn't want to continue, I would say give this second book a try.
This book was SO much better than the first.
Elena's character has grown and isn't so bitter and hung up on the past as she was in the first book.
Also, all the relationship issues from book one have been dealt with so there isn't all that angst.I'm glad I gave book 2 a try.
I'm actually looking forward to continuing this series now.
It was mostly about the relationship between Elena and Clay and another.
Elena and Clay are already a thing with no changes in this book.
Instead, this story is bad guys vs good guys.
See Spoiler.(view spoiler)[Elena and Clay lead an attack to kill the bad guys.
They should have killed him in that moment like they did the other bad guys, but they don’t.
Instead Elena tells Winsloe he can have a five minute head start and then the two wolves will hunt him.
So Winsloe gets some guns he has stored nearby and begins shooting at the wolves.
It features feisty werewolf Elena as the narrator, but it opens the door to the rich world of other supernatural characters that will be the hallmark of the series.As our story begins, Elena is going to meet someone who claims to have proof that werewolves exist.
Here is where we meet Paige Winterbourne, the young 20-something witch that will narrate the next book.
But the plot was so good and the characters so much fun that I think I may have liked it even more.
I love the way Armstrong has broadened her world-building with this book.
4.5I took .5 off the rating because there were quite a lot of editing errors in this book, spelling and grammar and the like, but otherwise this is a great read.
The story continues in Elena's perspective; she is caught and placed in an institution with a psycho, Ty Winsloe, who is capturing otherworldly beings to study and try to figure out where their power comes from and how it works.
Elena must figure out how to break out of there to get back to her pack and save the rest of the crew that is stuck in the institution.
I know I have probably said his before but... thank goodness for #rollbackweek! This month I decided to continue my journey into Kelley Armstrong's Women of the Otherworld series and read book two Stolen. If you have read my review of the first book Bitten than you know I was already enjoying this series; however, Stolen blew the first book out of the water. It's no exaggeration to say that I LOVED this book.Stolen, much like the first book, is action packed and fast paced, but more than that A
Much like us Elena, Clay and the Pack were oblivious to the existence of these other species of the supernatural, so we are inducted into the presence of this whole new world at the same pace as they were, thus ensuring we didn't have an information overload.As much fun as it was seeing Armstrong's world expand and the Pack's reaction to this, what I truly enjoyed about Stolen was the story.
Of course, I'm sure in books to come we will have more Elena and Clay related drama and I look forward to that and seeing how their relationship continues to develop.I am really loving this series and I can't wait to learn more about some of the new characters Armstrong has introduced us to in this book.
I absolutely devoured Bitten, the first book in the series (I’d been trying out different urban fantasies over the last several months and Bitten was easily one of my favorites).
I knew I loved the author’s writing, the characters, the story, and the show, so you’d better believe I scrambled to get ahold of the second book.There was only one problem: the first book was meant as a standalone, so reading Stolen felt like reading another first book.Normally, this would feel like a tragedy, as I love seeing the progression of a plot line over several books.
4.5 starsThe problem with writing a book in the first person is that the reader only gets to know what the main character knows.
Therefore, if you want your reader to know something, the narrator either has to know it, or find out during the course of the book.When your book is based entirely upon the premise of that main character being held captive and isolated, this can be a problem.
Elena has been kidnapped, but Armstrong apparently felt that the reader needed to know where and why she was being held.
4.5 stars I've never hated a villain so much as Tyrone Winsloe ...
and he was not the kind of evil that will destroy the world and stuff like that ...
no he was simply a sick spoiled rich pervy bastard...
whatever that means.
And really, I enjoyed the end of the book so much ...
Oak Tree + Elena + Winsloe hanging from her hands ...
Elena can kick-ass!!!
She's my fav female werewolf.“Who cared whether you could change motor oil when you could snap a rottweiler’s neck in 2.8 seconds?
She can kick ass!!!And Clayton ...
he's the best werewolf ever ...
