https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32852217-the-hundredth-queen
The lead soldier is the clearest to make out; his long legs taper from narrow hips and a boxy, solid chest.
He is the first man I have seen in person.
My eyes widen to take him in.
He is more fascinating than the chapel murals of the sky-god, Anu, and his son, Enlil, the fire-god.
^This is on the third page; the first time the MC meets the guy who - surprise!
- will become the love interest.Every now and then, I like to take a break from my TBR.
I'll either pick up a classic I've always been me
maybe there was that time, but I really thought it was long gone.In this book, a plain and unremarkable orphan called Kalinda has grown up in the Sisterhood - a religious group that grooms girls to be servants, courtesans, or, if they're lucky, wives to powerful men.
And while you could maybe explain away Kalinda's obsession with the fact that she's grown up in the Sisterhood and never seen men before - what's his excuse?Maybe I'll just stick to my regular TBR for a while.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
Insta-love. Rape. Stereotypes. Patriarchy. Manipulation. YA tropes. It was a lost cause. If only I knew.
Tremors rack my body. I cover my mouth, locking in a gasp. Rajah Tarek is here. The ruler of the Tarachand Empire has come to Samiya. I hold still, my flesh shivering.  I promised myself I would not DNF The Hundredth Queen. As I slogged through, wading across pages of murk and badly written metaphors, I thought to myself, "I'm almost there. The end is nigh. What is the point in dropping this book now?"But I quickly realised that finishing this book was not worth sacrificing my sanity over. No
Of course, our tstl heroine is aghast at the prospect of marrying Rajah Tarek and constantly complains about the unfairness of living in a lavish palace and being waited on hand and foot by people not so lucky.
Ever.Oh, not to forget the looming love triangle between a royal guard, Deven, and the mysterious bhuta who --surprise!-- doesn't actually want her dead, and I could most likely predict how the last 30% would've gone down.
How about be a good king, and then your people will love you for that and not because you love to sleep with multiple different helpless women whenever it strikes your fancy?The Hundredth Queen is badly written.
The females have no power and their best lot in life is to:1) Get "claimed" by a kind man as wife2) Live a life in a temple of women, devoted to the gods 3) Be a favored courtesan4) Live somewhere in a hypothetical wilderness or land that isn't run by an emperorWhen I first started reading this, I was a bit put off by the servant/slave/property status of women.
Kalinda just wants to live a peaceful life with her best friend, but she finds romance and is thrust into a leadership position with rebels who have elemental powers.There have been a lot of Young Adult "queen" stories, and I won't say there is a whole lot here you might not have read before.
A very predictable story with an interesting mythology bogged down by an insta-love romance between two people who are madly in love and willing to die for each other long before they have any reason or interaction to feel that way.I do, however, appreciate how many books I've read lately that don't feature a bad boy love interest who is rude to the protagonist but secretly loves them. More good guy love interests 2K17.
Another appropriating white author who doesn't understand that india is not a monolith. Trash.
The Hundredth Queen is a sweeping YA fantasy that is full of incredible world-building, breath-taking romance, and a magical journey that will keep you intrigued until the last page.
Link to YABC Review:http://www.yabookscentral.com/yaficti...Link to Curling Up With Good Book Review:http://curling-up-with-a-good-book.bl...Original Short Review:WOW....I mean WOW...one of my most favorite books that I have ever read....in my top ten EVER....This book has everything....magic, suspense, fantasy, action, betrayal, and swoon-worthy romance.....I am completely and utterly obsessed...Emily's writing is breath-taking and has so much emotion...This story drew me in from the very first page to the very last page ....and when I read the last page I literally cried because it was over...I cannot wait to be back in this world and to see what happens next....I need this sequel NOW!!!!!
For one the Rajah doesnt kill his wives he makes them do it themselves in a rank tournement where each time he chooses a new bride she has to fight all of the Rajahs courtesans who wish to take her place.The rank fighting is looked down upon by the main character Kali so I didnt enjoy it as much as I was hoping to.
The Rajahs first wife was the antagonist that stuck with me the most emotionally but I didnt understand some of her decisions.
The general claiming Kalis best friend as punishment didnt make sense either since she confronted him after he came back from the Temple.
She promises to go back one day and choose her as handmaiden.This story takes an unexpected turn with the reveal of Kalinda being the hundredth wife and all that it entails.
Romantic feelings will soon emerge but their love is forbidden and could put them both in mortal danger.That’s all I’ll say as I don’t want to spoil the plot.What I really liked:√ I loved the choice or Emily R.
It’s inspiring.√ Kalinda is like no other wife or courtesan.
He likes to witness the fights among his wives and courtesans.
She wants more for the other wives and courtesans.
Kalinda wanted to make her own choices.
If you are worried about spoilers you should stop reading here.The best part of this book was the villains.
In the end she decided to make her first proactive decision, which showed a good character arc I'm sure we will see for the rest of the series, but that doesn't stop her presence from being underwhelming at times in the text.Deven was also a little underwhelming, his only purpose centered around Kalinda, so he lacked a bit of his own identity, one I am sure will grow as the series goes on.
Buuuut it's still entertaining in parts and I kept reading because there's a freaking princess/guard trope and it gets me EVERY TIME.
The basic idea is that Kali can only leave the remote compound she lives in with a bunch of other girls if a benefactor claims her (and then controls her life).
Also, it just wasn't fun to read a story that had so much girl hate and oppression of women the whole way through.
I did like the main character enough to finish the book, but maybe comparing this to TWATD is unfair and sets it up to be a letdown?
1.5/5 stars I have so many questions.- Why didn't anybody tell me how bad this was?- Why did I fall for the pretty cover yet again?- Why didn't I DNF'd it?- Why YA fantasy isn't really fantasy at all?- Why did I spend $2 on it?I do have to say that this had tons of potential. Tons! But sadly it was all wasted away. Partly because of the super Insta-romance, and partly because of the very detached writing. I have never read a book where writing was both very good and very, very bad. The beginning
1.5/5 stars ​I have so many questions.- Why didn't anybody tell me how bad this was?- Why did I fall for the pretty cover yet again?- Why didn't I DNF'd it?- Why YA fantasy isn't really fantasy at all?- Why did I spend $2 on it?I do have to say that this had tons of potential.
For a book that for the bigger portion of it focuses on a tournament - the actual tournament was so short and so under-described that I had to read over again to make sure I didn't miss it.
I also wasn't a fan of the "religion" in the book.
As someone who has been sick most of their life this book is inspiring.
A tale of how a sickly orphan girl named Kalinda, raised by the sisterhood in a fictional Ancient India/Sumeria esque setting, can fight and rise to be the most powerful Queen in her land.
Starting with her preparations for a "claiming" in the sisterhood all the way through her tournament where she has to show strength and literally fight to claim her throne as the hundredth Rani, a queen.
She is gifted a security detail because Tarek the king believes she will be the most important of all his hundred wives, more important than his "Kindred" the first queen.
***** 5 Stars *****I'm shocked to see some of these ratings. If I read this in high school, I know I would've been going to class with only a few hours of sleep. The younger version of me that loved Hunger Games and Twilight would have LOVED this book. This story has everything I enjoy. A strong heroine. Unbreakable sisterhood. Magical encounters. I couldn't put this down!Yes, there is an insta-love chemistry, but I didn't find anything wrong with it. It's well written and extremely creative. Hopefully the next books in the series keep up with this incredible momentum!
I didn't connect with nor like any of the characters; didn't feel excited or much of anything while reading the entire book.
It felt vague and, like I've said, dull.
The main character, Kalinda, felt like she had zero personality, while side characters didn't stand out or actually have much character to them.
At this point, I don't even care that it was insta-love because like most everything else about this book, there was nothing that made it interesting, gave it life, made me want these two characters together.
Overall: it was boring, nothing caught my interest, I didn't like it, and that's about it.
Several months later I keep seeing the freaking cover on my Amazon feed and I finally got the audio because sometimes I like the audio more than the kindle version.The female narrator is fantastic and I kept on listening because of her.But at the end of the day I couldn't take the plot / summary / storyline, basically the freakin' book.This book will give you rage.
Like powerful angry rage If you like angst, like super villain - down on the heroine, everyone hates each other plot then cheerio to you, it's perfect!I don't need a romance book < --- surprise!
What I couldn't take, the Heroine was the 100th WIFE to the King.
Omg this book was freaking awesome!!!! It's the perfect crossover for Young Adult and Adult fantasy lovers! I adored Kali and Deven and I can't wait to read book 2! I need it now!!!
Okay not a review because I'll have to take time to gather myself and all my anger and annoyance and all the bad emotions and tell you in my Wrap Up. BUT I just read the description for the next book. AND WHAT THE F*CK Y DO PEOPLE STILL EVEN WRITE BOOKS LIKE THIS STILL. This story had so much potential but it was so brutally murder and then next book sounds [how to convey feelings without cursing?] I just really can't.
2.5 stars. The readers who say this was a cross between the young adult and new adult genres? Lies. The readers who liken this to  The Wrath and the Dawn ? Well, okay, I suppose I see where they're going with that from a story perspective...but not even close on the prose.Another case of getting sucked in by arranged marriages and courtesans and forbidden lurve. Serves me right. Be right back while I try to recover my diminished IQ.THE GOOD1) Entertaining. Badly entertaining. Until 60% through w
? Well, okay, I suppose I see where they're going with that from a story perspective...but not even close on the prose.Another case of getting sucked in by arranged marriages and courtesans and forbidden lurve.
Be right back while I try to recover my diminished IQ.THE GOOD1) Entertaining.
One of the most laughable and are-we-serious-right-now cases I've read.
I will build a fire every night for you to sketch by, and we will decorate the walls with your art.
(hide spoiler)]THE VERDICTI broke my reading fast for this?
While I was unashamedly entertained for a good majority of this book, these characters are idiots.
Let me start by saying this book is beautiful. Seriously beautiful. I mean, that cover? Yeah. But it's more than that. The writing, the atmosphere, the depth of the narrative. I found myself pausing to say, "Wow!" more times than I can count. Emily R. King can write.This book was an ALMOST five star for me. Only one thing held it back . . . but that was a big enough issue, I struggled to get passed it sometimes . . . Full review on my website!
instant attraction to the first man you've seen, and despite the ramifications of possible DEATH you risk your life and their's for someone you hardly know?
But honestly, having had only known one kind of life..you think that they would have been a little bit more accepting and honored on how their life is leading.I'm sorry I just feel like the romance is hurried and there for has ruined the book.
The problem for me is, I hope they get caught and are killed even if the benefactor is a little gross, and I don't think you're supposed to feel about the main character like that.
Ms. King's words are mesmerizing and kept me reading long after I should have been asleep.
But that doesn't really suit her and we come to love her quiet rebelliousness.
I wanted him to choke on his tongue so many times.And all of this story is set on the backdrop of an exquisite country and palace.
Ms. King has a way with words that develop not only characters, but the worlds in which the characters live.
I felt like I was there, like I could reach out and touch the Turquoise Palace.I can't wait to read the next book!
“Let the sky lead me, the land ground me, the fire cleanse me, and the water feed me.”  The Hundredth Queen is an imaginative fantasy that blends beautiful imagery and persistent characters. We follow Kalinda, an orphan ward of the Sisterhood, as she’s chosen to be the hundredth queen for the tyrant Rajah Tarek. Kali must fight for her place in the palace, while hiding a dangerous secret about herself. The Hundredth Queen is filled with mystery, romance, and a beautifully imagined world of pow
For the book to focus on her trying to understand what powers she possess, and what she’s capable, we really didn’t get to see her explore them much at all.I felt like most of the side characters were not really developed outside of their relationship to Kali.
I understand this is her story, but the other characters really just felt like they were along for her story, they didn’t have much on their own.The Hundredth Queen is a solid fantasy story, that brilliantly sets up it’s sequel The Fire Queen, to have more action, more challenges, and more powers.
This is the story of Kali who without meaning too catches the attention of the king and becomes the hundredth Rani.
But she discovers a lot of things about her self in the palace and even finds love even if it is forbidden.
This book takes inspiration from India and ancient Persia to create a world that is rich while also being quite unique.
I loved the displays of magic in this book I just wish I understood the magic system better and I hope the next book will help with that.
I highly recommend this book!
I wasn't sure what to expect going into this book, but I found it fresh, vivid, well-plotted, and intriguing. I think my favorite thing is the way the story grapples with faith--how it informs one's life and one's decisions, how one creates agency within a faith tradition. Looking forward to the next one!
seems like dodgy, culturally appropriative worldbuilding check out this twitter thread: https://twitter.com/thedimishra/statu...
Once Kali reaches the palace, she must face a rank tournament to prove herself worthy of being Tareks hundredth rani.
She may be challenged in the tournament by any of Tareks courtesans, who are all striving to win her position and increase their own station in life.
But what honestly bothered me the most about this novel was the way the woman in it are treated.
"I do not understand why the gods have made it so that every woman's lot in life is to owe her security to a man.
Audio # 43I feel like Bardugo fans may like this series
The Hundredth Queen weaves together mythology, magic, action, and fights to create a solid book.I do not understand why the gods have made it so that every woman's lot in life is to owe her security to a manKalinda is an interesting character.
Thankfully, as the book goes on, Kalinda grows less whiney and there's a cute but cheesy scene (like something out of a fighting anime) about the power of sisterhood and female friendship.What I didn't expect this book to contain, and was really pleasantly surprised by, was magic.
It's a decent read if you can like Kalinda, who improves as a character over the course of the book.
WrensReads Review:I should have read the “comparable to The Wrath and the Dawn” and realized this book wouldn’t have been for me.
Don’t get me wrong, the writing was good enough and the world is pretty interesting, but the story and the characters were just not hitting the spot for me.Kali is our main girl here and she Rajah (Tarek) comes and claims her as his hundredth wife after seeing her fight (because that’s all you need to know in a wife.
Then he expects her to fight the other wives for the spot of first wife?
