https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59805.River_s_End
2.5 stars.I figured out the murderer's identity early, friends.
And I'm not particularly good at figuring out the murderer's identity.On that basis, River's End disappointed me.
I think that the In Death series, which Roberts writes as J.D. Robb, spoiled me.
Even if I'm not always surprised by the culprit, I never figure it out so early.
Ultimately, I rounded up because Nora Roberts has storytelling skills.
So while I found River's End better than many other romantic suspense novels, it was certainly not one of Nora's best.Read for SBTB October - December 2018 Quarterly Challenge: A cover that is mostly red, brown, or orange.
Her characterization just grabs me from the first page and her books are difficult to break away from.The book starts out when Olivia, the heroine, is only four and her storybook life with her beautiful movie-star mom comes to a horrific end.
But when Noah, the son of the policeman who worked on the murder investigation, decides to write a novel on the events, Olivia must face up to the past while struggling with her romantic feelings towards the man dredging up the past.I enjoyed this book from the beginning page until the end (despite the unsurprising "surprise" reveal).
O seu passado molda as suas relações pessoais, torna-a fria para quem não é da família, não se deixando encantar por ninguém, com medo de ter um fim como o da mãe.Noah Brady, filho do inspector, Frank Brady, que tratou da condenação de Sam Tanner por 20 anos de prisão, é jornalista e desde cedo se fascinou pelo caso que mais abalou o seu pai - o assassinato de Julie MacBride, querendo escrever um livro, onde esclarece todos os porquês.
Seneler önce Ankara Kitap Fuarı'nda bir sahafta bulmuştum ama hiç elime alıp girişmedim.
Öncelikle anlatılan çok uzun bir dönem, Olivia'nın 4 yaşındaki haliyle başlıyor.
Yavaş yavaş ilerliyor, sonra Noah anlatıyor bir süre.
Nasıl Agatha romanlarında uşak katil çıkmaz, burada da öyledir dedim ve sanırım ilk sayfalarda tahmin ettim katili.
Gerçi uzun süre göremedik katil kim ama on ikiden vurdum demeliyim.
Hadi o kısmı da geçtim - tahmin edemediğim katiller her zaman favori romanlarım - sonunu o kadar oldu bittiye getirmiş ki, sanki yazmış yazmış çok yorulmuş burayı da hemencecik bitirelim demiş.
Kitap eski bir basım kabul ama dilbilgisi kuralları da senelerdir ayrı.
There are many actors who do a southern accent which I enjoy, but not this twang.THE STORY:Really bad plotting.
It was frustrating and not enjoyable.When the main characters have a conflict or fight, illogical things were said.
I think the author was tired when she wrote this book since she couldn’t come up with motivations fitting actions.BAD PLOTTING SPOILERS:(view spoiler)[Character A sees a dead woman and picks up the weapon/scissors.
No, During the entire book, all characters say A killed her.
But the author used that comment to confuse the issue - not interesting.The bad guy has no part in the story until the very end.
It broke my heart When I read the first chapters of this book.
Poor Olivia.
The policeman who had the chase I took to my heart because he is human.
That is one of the great things about the writting of Nora Roberts.
One of the things I did not like this time is that there are 4 parts of the book who are not connected with one an other in my opinion.
I loved the blooming love between Noach and Olivia and would love to live in the beach house ore the house they will build in the woods.
The book took its time setting up the primary romance, starting when Olivia was only 4 years old, and revisiting her at her first meeting with Noah when she was 12 (no romance) yet.
I liked both leads, I found the characters interesting, I had a guess as to where the whole story was going.Unfortunately, once the story kicked into full gear, I had a couple of problems with it that really got in my way.The first is a common aspect of romance novels that doesn't appeal to me.
I guessed early on where it was going, but didn't really see anything to support it through the book until the end.
Is everything.When Olivia was only four years old her movie star mother was brutally murdered by her father and she has lived under that shadow for her whole life.
But when the son of the police officer assigned to her parents case comes back into her life, seeking her help for a book he is writing, she discovers that she has much more strength than she realized.
I almost forgot about the romance that was blossoming between Olivia and Noah because I was so caught up the mystery and intrigue of the story with her parents.
This book was so amazingly well written and the characters very likable, espescially Olivia.
Or, to put it another way, someone who continues so completely wrapped up in herself for 20+ years isn't someone I'm terribly interested in (particularly when so many of those years were as a child in a loving, caring home).And it really didn't help that she was so emotionally awful to Noah.
She jerked him around hard and while he didn't simply take it, his responses came across as more doormat than sympathetic.Still, Noah was sweet and the story/plot that took up so much of the novel was pretty interesting so I still stayed up way too late to finish the book.
Frank was so good with Liv and treated her gently that I found myself agreeing with adult Liv, that Frank is a great man.Even when we met Noah as a child I wasn't sure about him.
I hate that when the truth came out Liv's family has to live knowing what they did and you know they will always be second guessing themselves.I'm still on the fence with Liv and Noah's HEA.
I'm more excited that Noah's parents will be part of Liv's family more than anything else.
A good thriller, with an ending I never would have expected.
Men för att vara en bok skriven så sent som 1999 har denna snabbt utspottade tegelsten sånna skeva, platta och könsstereotypiska karaktärer att den lika gärna skulle kunna vara skriven på 40-talet.
Noah skulle kunna summeras i den sekvens då han står på gymmet och ägnar sig åt "hantelsvängar";"Han kunde sätta en årslön på att hon var oskuld.
[...] Han var många år äldre - inte de sex som skilde dem åt rent kronologiskt, utan när det gällde  erfarenhet.
Han hade ingen rätt att dra fördel av det."Och där, mina vänner, har ni Noah Brady.
This book was amazing. Nora Roberts has written wonderfully the voice of a little child, who lost her mother. This is not just a regular romance book. The mystery part of the book was deeper and more interesting than the romance. All the characters will stay with me for a long time. Just a fantastic read.
2,5 estrelasEste livro foi-me emprestado pela minha prima Adriana (obrigada!) e sei que, mais cedo ou mais tarde, ela acabará por ler isto (provavelmente..) e não sei se o que tenho a dizer a afectará ou não.
Não gosto de escrever o tipo de opinião que estou prestes a escrever quando alguém me empresta ou dá livros, porque às tantas a pessoa até pode ficar triste, o que é perfeitamente natural.Por isso, antes de mais gostaria simplesmente de dizer que já li livros suficientes da Nora para lhe reconhecer mérito como autora e para que ela seja uma das autoras que apraz ler no que diz respeito aos romances contemporâneos.
Both centered around a romantic couple that met in childhood and fell in love as adults; both featured a female protagonist who threw herself into a career with the natural world to avoid emotional entanglements; both included long-distance relationships [in which the man moved for the woman]; and both had a psycho-killer who endangered the female lead as a main antagonist.All felt handled with more dexterity in Black Hills, which makes sense since it was written about 10 years later.
I liked the main characters and thought Nora handled Olivia, the female protagonist, especially well, portraying her trauma-induced panic attacks and avoidance of human company believably and sensitively (Olivia was witness to her mother's murder when she was a child).
Opinião no blog http://howtoliveathousandlives.blogsp...Neste livro estamos perante a fórmula do sucesso de Nora Roberts: drama, amor, ação, mistério, redenção… Talvez por isso esta estória peque pela pouca originalidade, pois, para quem já leu muitas obras desta autora, acaba por não trazer muito de novo.
Noah é uma personagem diferente, gostei do facto de não ser o homem perfeito, pois acaba por magoar quem ama, mesmo que as suas intenções não sejam más.
No fundo, não deixa de ser um bom livro para relaxar e descontrair, uma leitura leve, com a qualidade a que Nora Roberts já nos habituou.
But when 4-year-old Olivia awakens one night to find her mother brutally murdered and her father, Sam, standing over her corpse, the little girl's dreamland dissolves before her very eyes.Whisked away to the sanctuary of the Olympic Peninsula by her grandparents, Olivia learns to bury the past deep within her.
Determined to protect herself from painful memories, Olivia limits her life to the emerald rain forests and the River's End resort.
But as Noah helps Olivia acknowledge the lingering effects of her painful memories, she learns to trust him again.
However, soon after Sam's release from prison, dangerous threats begin to pursue Noah and Olivia.
It was still gripping and entertaining, all these years later.
And when I came to the end, I was surprised again!Olivia was only four years old when her mother died.
Years later she meets the policeman again with his family to renew their acquatintance.
The outdoor life is good to her, and as the story progresses, she becomes expert in the flora and fauna of the area, giving tours to guests.
The two families intertwine through the years.
Good story, lots of action and a whiz-bang finale!Remember, Nora Roberts books are not rated "G".
This is not your typical mystery or suspense but it has all of the elements to make it a really good story.
Olivia is as complex as they come but Noah was the perfect man to help her tear down the walls she built to cope with the tragic circumstances of her childhood.
While a suspect was imprisoned for the murder of Olivia's mother, you're never quite certain if the right person was brought to justice and this book takes you the distance.To say anything more would ruin the experience for other readers.

Isn't it every woman's fantasy to make love to a hot guy on a river bank in the mountains?The "villian" is someone you end up feeling sorry for. And at the end you love him and cry for him.Unexpected twist at the end.For a brief moment, I wanted to become a hiking guide. But then I came to my senses.
It is almost confusing in certain sections, I have to figure out which character is thinking what (Which is why head hopping is a big no-no). I did like the characters. The mystery is good. Full Review: http://thetbrpile.weebly.com/reviews/...
Don't you hate it when you solve the mystery in Chapter 2, but you keep reading it bc you are certain the book couldn't possibly be that simple..then it turns out the book is just as simple as you had feared and you wasted all of that time? Yeah...me, too.
"He took me to McDonald's. I feel in love over fish sandwiches and the sound of children laughing."I will never read a Nora Roberts' novel again. AWFUL
On the positive side, she is a good storyteller and the plot certainly kept me going right through a lazy Labour Day. I liked the descriptions of the Washington forest and felt like booking a holiday to go see giant trees, bears, beavers and cougar.
14 years on, he decides to write a book about the crime, and tracks Olivia down (after basically stalking her), asks her out and then is surprised when she roundly rejects him after finding out what he's up to.
Six years go by, and then her father, about to be released from prison, contacts him about writing he book, and he still somehow thinks it's a good idea.

This is the story of the rippling effect of murder.
In this story a starlet is murdered by her celebrity husband.
Leaving behind the main character of this story, a 4 year old child, to deal with the repercussions.
But multiple scenes are repetitive to the point of predictability between the main character and the love interest.
After the idea that the main character is "hard to get" was established, the push and pull between the leads gets tiring.
This is the story of protection, many at times over-protection.
A good story that could have been better if it weren't lengthy.
I have never read a better crime-romance-thriller fiction in my entire life! The plot's never been more perfect. This book can be devoured slowly or gulped all in one shot. A definite page turner, the story had me glued to it at every stage. The ending was the perfect twist, and a satiating one indeed. The steaming romance between the protagonists though <3 Shh... how can I reveal? The circle is complete. Justice is served! Why don't we have characters like that in real life? *sigh*Also, Nora Roberts is a genius and you should definitely grab her books ASAP.
I absolutely loved this book.
It was a great story of a man, Sam and his wife, Julie that starts out with a murder and their daughter, Olivia witnessed part of it.
Her parents were celebrities.The detective that came to her house made a big impression on her and to him likewise.
Olivia meets detective Frank Brady's son and a love story unfolds.
But not easily as Olivia is damaged and scared to be hurt again.
In conclusion, this book was a thriller, a page turner and hard to put down.
This is one of Nora Roberts older books and I love Nora Roberts but this book had some pitfalls.Pros:- I adore the PNW setting- I liked the characters- the suspense/ending was goodCons:- odd “teenage-boy hips” description- I was 85% sure of the killer on page 66- there were a few odd moments/actions that were just slapped in there to make the plot workSo overall not bad but definitely not a favorite. Hmmm.
