https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/466537.Future_Shock
And without that little appliance it's pretty hard to see into the future with much accuracy.I suspect that if one could comb through all the "future-looking" books written in past decades, it might be found that the very few which exhibited pretty remarkable prescience would have been books that, when they were published, created either hardly a ripple, or else a backlash (see below **).Mostly we like visions of the future which are quite like our own wishes for both our own, and society's, future.
This book was written 37 years ago, and Toffler's predictions have to a great degree come true.
Here Toffler speaks of a "Future Shock" in which people are not able to adjust to the quickening pace of society due to technological change.
He speaks of an increase in bizzar behavior (I remember reading about bizzar behavior in fiction that I thought I'd never see come to light, but to a great degree over time it has become more accepted and common), susceptibility to disease (an unexplained increase in cancer), and emotional breakdowns (which appear to be at epedemic proportions).
I read this years ago & liked it.
It's worth reading again, almost 40 years after it was originally published.
'Future Shock' is based on the term 'Culture Shock' & Toffler's book deals with how the future is coming at us so fast that we're all in a state of shock from dealing with the changes.
I haven't read them & I'm not sure I will.
It's heartening to see how many of the trends he wrote about have come true - it gave me confidence in his writing.
It's a pity how some haven't come true - it defies logic & often points out areas where our society is too conservative.
The book serves as a tool for diagnosing the problem, i.e. why he thinks we'll be getting future shock, and also as a way of asking what we can do about it.He makes some predictions (especially in the novelty section), and almost 40 years later, we see that he gets some of the wrong, at least for the time being.
It's just details, and for that matter, he himself says that although it's very easy to get things wrong, it is important to try looking into and anticipating the future.Book is actually quite pro-technology and pro-change.
но, как мы знаем, инженеры не просто продолжают рулить - они захлебываются собственным интеллектуальным превосходством над "гуманитариями", и не просто не приблизились к осознанию последствий своих действий, а придумали кучу причин, почему этого делать не нужноэто видно везде - и то, как сложно инженерам рассказывать про функционал собственных приложений, особенно отвечая на вопрос "зачем это нужно пользователю", и то, как задорно в ИТ-сообществе травят "иных" - уровень расизма, сексизма, гомофобии, ксенофобии в индустрии чрезвычайно высок, при этом уровень рефлексии недалеко ушел от депутатов государственной думы, а уровень эмпатии - от жителей третьего рейха.
потому что они на полном серьезе говорят we're making the world a better place, представляя технологическое решение, и на полном же серьезе считают, что это оправдывает сексуальные домогательства на работе конечно, мы как индустрия тоже в это вложились.
But then, all I got to read was 400 odd pages of rant about how bad it is for mankind to be subject to the cruelty of changing times.
you get "Future Shock".A lot of reviewers praise this book saying - this book is as relevant today as it was 40 years ago when it was written.
If this is still relevant, how have we lived in the last 40 years then?
We will continue to live in the same manner, so that 40 years into the future, someone will come and say say "This book written 80 years ago is still as relevant"!
While reading it I remembered direct quotes spoken by my mother and teachers; it was hugely popular in the 70’s.
If I had only read this 20 years ago and invested in AOL!
We have distanced ourselves from each other because of technology, and we have had our “future shock” in regard to the unprecedented advance of technology, but overall the pluses have given us huge advances in collaboration, creative freedom, and entrepreneurship.
Go into this knowing the original publication date and see a man who saw the future along before it happened.
Read decades ago.
Wasn't impressed by Toffler high opinion of himself nor the uniqueness of his "vision" for the future.
That said, his theme seemed to be right.
In fact, as a certifiable Old Foogie, I am now experiencing the kind of "shock" he spoke of then: not just with the rapid rate of technological change but the revolution in morals and mores which is now happening.Of course, the other aspect of this is how shockingly stupid we are about history.
Almost daily the media and academics breathlessly announce some great revelation about what happened twenty to fifty years ago.
I won't pretend that I'm smart enough to wrap my head around even half the concepts that Toffler brings up, but those that I did understand were pretty mind-blowing.
It starts out and ends up a bit dry, but the ideas put forth in this are amazing, and 30 years out it's interesting to see which of his "predictions" have come true, which haven't, and which should have.
Overall, Toffler has an amazing ability to analyze the societal shifts that were and are occurring in regards to materialism, politics, and even down to relationships.
A bit heavy in terms of content, but well worth it.
The book was written 40 years ago, discussing how change and technological developments are shaping the future and influencing our lives.
1) Different aspects of life are becoming less permanent and more temporary (or transient), from the disposable products we use to the increased need for moving from city to city (for education or work), to changing the organizations where we work.
Toffler suggests that people follow certain lifestyles as a means to cope with the overchoice problem (I personally found this discussion very interesting and eye opening to people's behaviour ..) Toffler emphasizes the urge to think about the future and to think differently.
In our time, live changes so fast that we no longer know how to act; to quote the author:We no longer "feel" life as men did in the past.
And this is the ultimate difference, the distinction that separates the truly contemporary man from all other.and againWe have cut ourselves off from the old ways of thinking, of feeling, of adaptingThe truth is, now in 2013, 40 years after the book, that humans are the same as always.
Technology, its fast change, doesn't change the way we are; changes our lives, but not our essence.The author described technology, 40 years ago, as our saviour.
Full of insightful ideas, many of which are just as relevant now in 2012 as they were when the book was written in the 70’s – some perhaps more so.
The main barrier to my enjoyment of the book is that a lot of effort is spent easing the reader into each set of ideas, and in some cases it felt huge chunks of a chapter were devoted to an idea which was concisely dealt with in a few paragraphs.
As it is the book asks for quite a bit of effort, but there is reward to be had if you persevere.
It took me three years to get around to finishing this book.
It's a pretty painful read.
Toffler has a bad habit of creating at least one neologism in each chapter.
In my opinion, resorting to neologisms is just a failure to analyze your own arguments.
Neologisms are a cheap way out.Also, Toffler fills each chapter with paragraph after paragraph of case study and academic quotation.
Then at the end of the chapter he sums it up with some kind of statement to the effect of "obviously this must be the case".

The author is a little long-winded, but this book is unintentionally hilarious at times. It was social commentary written in 1970 about how quickly society and people's lives are changing. He makes some interesting points about how temporary our relationships are becoming and how technology is facing us with an overwhelming amount of options. But my favorite parts are when he starts making predictions about the future. By the year 2000, half the population will live in underwater communities! We'll be turning into cyborgs! Who wear clothes made out of paper! Good times.
One amazing ride from history ( civilization) to future!!! To get a broad and deeper view about family, relationshipd, education, technology, politics, psychology, biology, inventions, life pattern..etc..etc...one must read this book and ofcourse to get a glimpse of future . One hell of a read about "CHANGE" .
کتابی تمام نشدنی از معدود آثاری که تونست رو جهان بینی من تاثیر مثبت بگذاره تلفیقی از روانشناسی، جامعه شناسی، تاریخ، فلسفه و....بیش از 350 رفرنس متن داستانی و علمی :)
One of the best book by one of the best author.
Alvin Toffler is by far the most prescient author i have read; his bold predictions in this book, written 4 decades ago, are largely manifesting themselves today
После превосходного дружеского отзыва на эту книгу немеденно занесла ее в ту-рид, и внезапно осталась скорее разочарована (наверняка отчасти тем, что я не такая умная, как Маша).Во-1, конечно, надо было бы прочитать ее не спустя 50 лет после написания, а хотя бы году в 90м, футурология наука сиюминутная, как ни странно :) Ретроспективно уже довольно смешно читать половину того, что там в середине книги описано в качестве предполагаемых сценариев - ни одного попадания, кроме гомосексуальных семей, и те, увы, до сих пор ютятся в десятке стран.
I read this book many decades after its first printing, so many of Toffler's predictions had fallen flat. But I was still inspired by the overall theme, and captivated by the idea of futurism more generally. For that reason, I'll always have a special appreciation for this book.
While Toffler does a lot of "This is obviously wrong and I'm not going to dignify the reasons why it's wrong with page time," but he also does a fair amount of questioning basic societal assumptions." " think he simplifies the pre-tech way of life: "Only romantic fools babble about returning to a 'state of nature.' A state of nature is one in which infants shrivel and die for lack of elementary medical care, in which malnutrition stultifies the brain, in which, as Hobbes reminded us, the typical life is 'poor, nasty, brutish, and short.' To turn our back on technology would be not only stupid but immoral'" (370).
This book was first written in 197o and here I am in 2018 living through many of the things the author discusses in the book. Prophetic to say the least.
I like that bookChange could be good and could let you great or worse
In the first 2/3rds of the book, he spends a great deal of time explaining the elements contributing to Future Shock, namely "transience" and the "accelerative thrust".
Fortunately, Toffler ends up explaining how to cope with Future Shock in the end.
Unfortunately, I arrived at the final section of the book realizing that Toffler's ideas aren't revolutionary at all, and have been written in countless psychological works under the topic of general stress.Future Shock is an extremely well written piece by Alvin Toffler, and offers a thorough prediction of what life will be like in "the future", and offers suggestions for how to cope with problems that we may encounter.
One of the best books I’ve read recently.
The book discusses so many different things but the essence of the book is around how we need to manage the change around is rather than letting it happen willy-nilly.
If you’re read Musil’s “man without qualities” – a group of people who can come together from different parts of society to guide it is what the book implies is needed.
(I’ve recently given up using my iphone on the week ends as a result of the arguments put here).
There are 2 excellent chapters near the end on education and technology and for those 2 alone the book is worth reading.
The future will probably be about like the present but a little different.
The author sees technological change creating rapped social change and more dynamism.
Friendships and social networks take time to build up, even if everyone is instantly connected.
The same goes for business networks, and they are built on trust and experience.
As much as we would like to believe we can create things over night (and in many cases we can) when it’s a risk we rely on trust and experience.
It fails when the book speaks of social and environmental aspects.
Accurate picture of cultural forces clashing in the 21st century where the information age brings about changes that those who are for accelerating into the technological era embrace while those who yearn for old days where things were seen as rosy, they reject the movement of this new era.But colorful lenses deceive as the old farm days were filled with sickness without good medical care, harsh environmental forces coming into play and people being left to the mercy of storm, rain and drought.
White coat Gods are disassembled and seen as mere mortals who cannot solve a wide variety of diseases with consumers bringing in law suits from varios angles.
U must read this b4 having or telling or discussing any Opinion about anything around your world!it gives u a glass to see!best sociology book ever!
if u r by any chance a part of the world between 1960-2060 u Have 2 read these aalvin tofler series!
here he discuss the effect that the rate may cause,& leave the tehem of the "change" 4 his next book to discuss!
1980...third wave he define us the chaneg we r facing or going to face in future decades in details 1990...power shift this change "third wave" will affect the basics of distribution of the meaning of the "power" in society!
It's always fun to go back to the future, and futurist, Alvin Toffler, has offered suggestion and insights that are dead on, or still of concern in forty years from when the book was originally published.
It's amazing how a lot of the concerns and ideas are still relevant today.
Heavily influenced by Buckminster Fuller, and Toffler does seem to repeat himself often with out saying much in certain subparts of his chapters, but when he comes up with an idea, it strikes.
What is wonderful is paging through his bibliography and finding other similar authors and theorists of the era (mid to late 60s) to read or add to the book shelf
