https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/752325.Unveiled_Mysteries
Here is an astounding memoir of King's many visits with St. Germaine.
King's memoir is at times stirring and at times tedious.
Within us an understanding of Scripture and perhaps our own experiences arise, and we see a connection.Those interested in spiritual growth may want to read again and again the parts that explain the I AM affirmations and the necessity to lead a God-centered life.
And although King describes the treasures that St. Germaine shows him ad nauseum, the real treasure in this book is the guidance to personal perfection.
It can awaken in the reader a deep yearning for that perfection and for a relationship with the spiritual.
This book takes you through the miracles that are actually quite normal when considered in the scope of Universal Law. Following Godfre Ray King's journeys with Ascended Master Saint Germain, he is shown glimpses of magnificent civilizations past; how they rose to power by following the Will of God, as well as how they fell into ruin as the citizens turned towards worldly pleasures. He also shares gems of spiritual wisdom. This book is an enlightening treasure chest of knowledge to the seeker.
This book is excellent and is my second time reading it. The information contained within is most precious to me. My love and gratitude goes out to Saint Germain and Godfrey Ray King. Your loving service to Life is certainly much appreciated by me and such a blessing to all humanity.
Cutting off the root, sacral, and solar plexus chakras not only cuts off the flow of feminine energy, it prevents a person from being grounded and securely anchored in the lifetime.
The solar plexus is the base of our personal power and the seat of the personal identity.Rather than viewing our primal, Earth-based, and magnetic feminine chakras as representing those parts of humanity we need to abolish, they should be seen as necessary parts of the total incarnated beings we have chosen to be.
Work in the upper chakras is very taxing on the body and spirit when there is no outlet for grounding this powerful energy.
I own the original version of this book from 1934
Must Read
This is a great metaphysical book. In 2000 I visited Mt.Shasta, CA & I was imagining tracing Guy Ballards steps. I've read it a few times & every time I read it I learn something new.
Excellent and inspiring I've actually had this book for 20 years and just finally reached the stage in this life to read and understand it. So blessed
Incredibly awesome... This book and books 2 & 3 have given me lots of answers I have been looking for.
Quite upliftingThoroughly enjoyed this book. Much different than most as it tells a weaving enlightened story. You can't wait to get to the end. I hope you find what you have been seeking. It may be closer than you thought. Namaste
They travel through time and space to lost continents, ancient civilizations, past lives, and to current secret retreats and mines inside mountains.
It was recommended to me because so much of it takes place inside the Tetons and Yellowstone and because I am hungry for information about the spiritual planes.
After reading the book I learned that it led to the "I AM Activity," a spiritual movement that had some controversy around it.
That controversy took away somewhat from my experience of the book, which by itself is a lovely account.
The paper itself is a golden yellow and the text violet (upon reading the book these color choices are self evident and wonderful additions).Therein we learn of Guy Ballard (writing as Godfre Ray King) as he encounters Ascended Master Saint Germain and the instruction he receives from him.
We are taken on journeys to (among other places) the Royal Teton, Yellowstone, the Amazon and ancient cities & are treated to descriptions of the wonders that Guy sees and is taught.
The first in the Saint Germain Series is such a foundational book that without reading this you are holding your own ascension back, read it now and meet with Ascended Master Saint Germain yourself!

The late author, Guy Ballard, writing under the pen name Godfre Ray King, claims that these were true events. Whether you believe that or not, the book is a highly entertaining and riveting tale of a man's search for God and truth.
Very beautiful images. Highly inspirational.
Reading the whole series
I recalled, a vague memory, a need and use well before my time, of a character called Flash Gordon, quite popular.
