https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/226477.The_Zap_Gun
As I read this, I asked myself again and again why was he not more popular in his own time?
From reading articles about his contemporaries, he was much lauded by his peers, but just never enjoyed the commercial success of Heinlein or Asimov, or even the literary praise of Vonnegut or Le Guin, but PKD was a masterful craftsman and his imagination was unparalleled.
The reader will enjoy Dick’s usual themes of mental illness and drug use and also an odd mix of time travel, androids, toys, and comic books.A must read for fans and a good introduction to his early work.
I started reading thinking this was going to simply be one of PKD's early, pulpy sci-fi novels.
I'm sure he padded this novel with some unnecessary words simply because he was being paid by the word.
The book feels like a strange combination of Orwell's 1984 mixed with Vonnegut's Cat's Cradle but finished with a bit of Terry Gilliam's Brazil.
And no, it wasn't as good as '1984' or 'Cat's Cradle'.The book also seems to have early seeds of Dick's later religious explorations.
Looking at a timeline for Dick, I notice this novel was written right after The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch.
Love the concept and satire but I did not gel with the writing or characters.
Lars and Lily need to make a real weapon but fast.PKD outdoes himself with neologisms and acronyms in The Zap Gun. The concept of plowsharing has real poetry to it.
Of any of the PKD novels I have known almost nothing of before opening it to page one, The Zap Gun is among the most enjoyable.
In one scene the weapons designers are discussing their basic uselessness, and Lars says of the pursaps, "All they really want is a Zap Gun." That throwaway line sums up the satire and the underlying anger in the book.
"Hello, I'm Philip K. Dick. I sit down to write with a vague idea of the message I want to convey and make the plot advance as I go, throwing in crazy sci-fi cliches to my own rescue whenever I reach a dead end. You try to do that, and you'll obtain a mess; I do it, and it kicks ass. That's because I'm Philip K. Dick."PKD of course never said that, but he could've, had he been a less nice guy.
Qué futurista es Philip,pero me sigue gustando más Blade Runner
This book was even more convoluted than most: (a) there are weapons designers for East and West, who get weapons from trances; (b) the weapons are not real, due to a secret agreement; (c) a real nut, a weapons fanatic (who like all civilians thinks the weapons are real) is appointed to the government; (d) alien satellites begin to take Earth cities; (e) an obscure comic book contains East & West's weapons' sketches (this phenomenon never explained); (f) an ancient "war vet" is found who seems to be from the war with the aliens, which just started.
But when the insectlike slavers from the Sirius system arrive and start dropping satellites into Earth orbit, things really DO get serious, and Lars Powderdry and the beautiful Lilo Topchev (the West's and the East's top "wep-fash" designers) must join forces to somehow construct a REAL weapon to save all of humankind....Although Phil originally wrote "The Zap Gun" on commission for a Pyramid editor who wanted a novel written for that preset title, the result is anything but standard space opera fare (indeed, the alien invasion plot is dealt with so offhandedly, at the end, as to be almost an afterthought), and all of Dick's regular obsessions are on full display.
ah, lars powderdry! how can one not like a book with a main character named lars powderdry? it would be impossible.anyway, here we are back in the land of exhilarating imagination... ghanaian cartoonist of blueheaded cephalopod superhero accidentally transmits advanced weaponry designs to government researchers in the u.s. and u.s.s.r. via telepathic means, alien invaders accidentally destroyed by hyper-puzzling children's maze game, etc. oops, now i ruined the book for you. oh well, it was good!

This convoluted and strange system nonetheless works at keeping an actual peace in the world, until Earth comes under attack from alien slavers from Sirius, and there are no longer any effective weapons to fight them off.
Lars Powderdry, the West-Bloc’s designer and protagonist, is not a particularly surprising character for Dick.
This is a nice, fast-paced book, one of Dick’s funnier ones, and recommended for readers who already have a few PKD books under their belt.Stray thoughts:# By now I’ve noticed that there about three main types of aliens that show up in PKD works.
That contest is thrown out of alignment however when an alien race begins to plant satellites up in Earths atmosphere, with the human race fearing an invasion both of the worlds premiere weapons designers have to work together to create one that will be used to destroy the aliens.
This book is instead a focused satire and critique of the sensibilities of Cold War America.
The last third of this book is where Mr. K Dick begins to turn everything over on its head, after all it still needs to be a science fiction novel and not just a satire.
I could see the overall bigger picture that Dick was trying to create, how he was trying to relate it to wars going on, and how the government was run, but it wasn't really all that interesting to read.
In this case, if the characters were better written, I could have forgiven some of the slack in the story itself.I did laugh when they learned the truth about the weapons they had been designing.
I also found Febbs to be the most interesting character in the book.
The weapons designers get their ideas acting as mediums in trances, which is where the occult motivation of events comes in.The crisis comes when Earth is invaded by aliens and suddenly real weapons are required - weapons which the pursaps believe to be already in existence.
Or is this what is happening - the only source of information about what is going on (cities disappearing after satellites appear in orbit) is a toy designer who appears to have travelled in time from the future with a warning.The extremely trashy title may have prevented this novel, which with its theme of the alien slavers is a satire on the pulp science fiction genre, being one of Dick's better known, but it is easily up to the high standard regularly reached by his fiction.
One of the entertaining things about reading science fiction books written in the 1950s and 60s is often you find that the future they are set in is now the past.
A bit of advice to any budding science fiction writer out there, set your novels far enough in the future that your children won't be alive in the year you are writing about.
The main character doesn't even appear on screen in these last two chapters, his story already resolved.It isn't completely awful, once the main plot does get going it is entertaining enough.
На самом деле это всего лишь обман и надувательство, с помощью которого давно уже сговорившиеся между собой лидеры стран Востока и Запада упорно дурачат своих сограждан.Вот только однажды этот обман выйдет им боком, когда орды работорговцев с Сириуса вторгнутся на нашу планету и начнут безжалостно порабощать землян.
Именно в этот ответственный для человечества момент Ларсу Паудердраю и его русской коллеге Лиле Топчевой придется на полном серьезе взяться за создание Самого Настоящего Оружия…Работорговцев с Сириуса в кадре почти не появится.
И это хорошо понятно, так как для писателя они - всего лишь еще один удачный повод.
He did not favor this book.
And yet the main thrust of the book is the issue of empathy in humanity.
Surely they cannot be just..."gone." Like most of his novels, this raises more questions than it answers, but it makes you at least start looking.
The most striking thing to me about this book is the main character Lars, how he treats women poorly, kind of half realizes he is doing so, but can't help himself.
Lars sees all people as more characters in his life than real people.
The resolution is tighter than most of PKD's novels.
The reason why I gave this 3 stars and not more is probably the same reason why PKD himself wasn't so happy about this one: the beginning is nearly impossible to comprehend.
This is more confusing than normal PKD fair.Everything else is awesome.
Dick, they're almost mandatory.The paranoia, as well, is pretty mindblowing (granted, I was too young to understand anything of world events when the Berlin Wall fell, so).
The two opposing forces continuing the war only to keep the deluded masses happy, then faced with a new, outside alien force (which they can't even join forces to defeat), but when the aliens are defeated the East and West return to normal, go back to being enemies.
That's pretty incredible.
It's obvious the first half of the book is rushed and needed to be rewritten, but Dick probably had the rent due or one of his ex's hounding him for money so he couldn't exactly get around to it. However the second half of the book makes up for it by being tighter and faster and introducing (almost) too many good ideas together, and wrapping up everything in a great conclusion that I wanted even more time for. Don't read this unless you're already used to reading Dick but if you're a fan there's really no reason to skip it.
Not his finest moment, but certainly a good read.
This is much lighter in tone than some of his others, but it has plenty of twists and turns to keep a reader interested.
Some of it can be a bit hammy and it's hard to tell where sincerity ends and parody begins in some places, but this may be a sign of what sci-fi was like in the 70s (I'm not a fan of sci-fi, more a fan of Dick....fnar fnar).
The satire on the arms industry and the surrounding consumerism is great even if the characters aren't as strong as usual.
This was quite disjointed even for Philip K Dick. I think part of the problem may have been I read it as bedtime reading over a couple nights rather in one go as I normally do for his books. I didn't quite grasp the whole weapons to plowshares concept and the jobs of the telepaths coming up with the ideas. That said it did get better about half way through and I found the ending and the last chapter with the main character one of the most emotional and moving things that I've read by Philip K Dick.
An incredible writer, but not perhaps his best or most accessible book. The narrative is loaded with ideas and dense with new language which makes it a little difficult to follow at first, but it is certainly a cut above your run of the mill sci-fi. It mixes drug induced weapon design, time-travel, post cold-war politics, deep psychological problems on the part of most of the protagonists together with a fairly black view of the human condition. Great stuff.
Plenty weird, but not one of Phillip K. Dick's best. I think part of the problem is that the publisher set up the story poorly on the jacket. OTOH, I loved the golden age cover.
perhaps i am not a dick guy =(
At times it seems like she (Marren) didn't really serve a purpose in the story at all - mainly, it seemed like she was there in order for Lars to teleport to Seattle, for reasons not really clear to me at all.Now, onto the good parts: the concepts of politics as a weapon of mass distraction (or is it weapon as a WMD?) was awesomely laid out IMHO, and the Surley Febbs character had me wishing he'd had more space, self-centered as he was - funny guy.

Mr Lars sognatore d'armi non è una lettura facile: la narrazione è confusa, i personaggi non sempre sono approfonditi decentemente e la trama ha qualche buco di troppo.
Per capirci, questo romanzo racconta di una Terra condannata a una perenne guerra fredda, una lotta decisa da psionici che concepiscono in stato di trance nuove armi...
con una premessa del genere a chi importa di qualche personaggio malamente abbozzato?
Un PKD minore (e definirlo minore con tutte le idee geniali e il finale meraviglioso di questo libro mi costa fatica) che vale tanto oro quanto pesa.
Przez większą część powieści było dosyć nudno, za to bardzo absurdalnie i zabawnie (czasami trzeba było też odłożyć książkę, żeby zastanowić się nad tą czy inną kwestią). Końcówka jest warta uwagi - bardzo cenię Dicka za to, że w zakończeniu umiejętnie splata wątki rozrzucone w całej książce. Na końcu zaś, podobnie jak w "Inwazji z Ganimedesa", czyha ów niespodziewany ostatni rozdział - gwarantujący dobre kilkanaście minut intensywnego rozmyślania. Książkę polecam, mimo bardzo umownych 3 gwiazdek! Recenzja już na blogu:https://kajmanzzaokladki.pl/2018/09/1...
In a world where the ‘arms race’ has become a sham, alien evaders threaten the Earth.This was the usual mind-bending, bizarre, constantly twisting storyline that you expect from this author. It took me at least a hundred pages to get into this book, but after that I found it very enjoyable.
Some interesting ideas near the end, but a muddied plot and retrograde attitudes toward women take the steam out of it.
