https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/513151.Cherry_Ames_Senior_Nurse
Smart, courageous, mischievous, quick- witted, and above all, devoted to theprofession of nursing, Cherry meets adventure wherever she goes…In Senior Nurse, Cherry realizes that "a senior really must be a little more sober and responsible" - perhaps she should have warned the head nurse rightaway about the rabbit that had been smuggled into the pediatric ward.
But how did word of it become common knowledge around Spencer?Cherry discovers that Mildred has more to her than she thought as together they face the dangerous thieves who have stolen Dr. Joe's formula.I love this series.
this book, the second in the series, was cute, kind of like the Nancy Drew or hardy Boys books.
Cherry and her friends "adopt" the new class of students, and Cherry struggles to get along with her adoptee, all while trying to protect the secret of Dr. Joe's new miracle drug and doing some romantically-tinged verbal sparring with the brilliant Dr. Lex Upham (whom I thought was a rather controlling twit, but Cherry seemed to be able to hold her own with him).The Chinese nurse Mai Lee continued to be stereotyped (such a "little" "quiet" "demure" "ivory-faced" nurse), but the fact that the author included a Chinese nurse at all was pretty impressive for the 1940's.
Pretty dang progressive for those times.
It's such a fabulous snapshot at medicine and nursing from 70 years ago (has it really been that long?) Whew, what an interesting time people lived in.
Though I don't know...the times I've been in a hospital would it have been more helpful to be in a ward with other people to talk to?
And the fact that nurses would spend time sitting with you and keeping you company...not like our understaffed, overworked hospitals today.But I digress.
If you love nursing, medical stories, things like Nancy Drew with a hint of romance and even a hint of suspense, then this is for you.
Certainly the push is on throughout this book as Cherry agonises whether to serve on the home front or volunteer for the armed services even as she manages to deliver babies and foil plans to steal the formula of a medical breakthrough to fall into enemy hands.
Cherry is as patriotic as the US apple pie and unlike a lot of the other young adult books of the time Cherry is portrayed as career focused instead of husband hunting (although she does have boyfriends) she is noble, kind, good and still able to pull practical jokes.
I LOVED the first three of this series of books as a girl. They might have a part to play in why I like hospitals to this day (I know - WEIRD!) and any medical themed shows. If you liked Nancy Drew... you will appreciate Cherry Ames!
The second Cherry Ames book is just as good as the first.
Nice light read. Interesting to see how nursing was like during WW2 time.
This was even better than the first one! A really sweet series about a girl becoming a nurse in the midst of World War 2.
If you like Nancy Drew books, the Cherry Ames books are comparable in the writing style and dialogue.
In this volume, we find Cherry as a senior student nurse who will soon be graduating.
She has an important life decision to make, whether she will stay as a nurse on the home front, or become an army nurse.
It's an important step in her life -- so if you're wanting to read the series, don't miss book #2.There's even some intrigue happening right in the hospital -- which has to do with Dr. Joe's secret laboratory projects.
Overall, there's a really good plot in the book, and made for an enjoyable read.
Amusing read; although it starts out light and bubbly, it gains some weight along the way. And it's definitely of its time; it's hilariously sexist!
I've always loved figuring out puzzles than talking to people, so I wasn't really attracted to Cherry Ames.Working with nurses, and having nurses in my nuclear family as well as friends, however, have offered me a picture of how challenging and financially unrewarding it is to be a nurse here in the Philippines.
Cherry Ames had to deal with the same shit.
Although there were occasional plot holes by the author, this book was capable in offering a snapshot of the hectic life of a nurse.
For a number of reasons, I never got to finish this series, and now as an adult, I am reading Cherry Ames. I love, love, love it.Every girl should read this series. Yes, some of it is very outdated, but it is extraordinary.
Sure this book is dated by today standards, but I still love Cherry! What I didn't love was the romance with the young doctor Lex!
I read this book after reading the first book. I did not care for this one as much as the first. I felt that a lot of the writing was dry and dull.
I read three of these in one sitting. Fun, fast, lively. They were not texting, they were doing!
3.5 stars. Cherry is excited to be in her final year of nursing school, but is having a difficult time deciding just what to do when she graduates — become an Army nurse, or stay and work at the home front? Many characters (usually patients) are introduced briefly then never appear again, as Cherry moves on to a different ward to gain additional experience. As is usual in this series, there is a small mystery element, and Cherry is instrumental in the solution. Enjoyable, if only for the period setting (although it was contemporary when written).
Cherry's adventures continue in nursing school.
And all of this while making good grades and working in the ER.
These books clearly were intended to help bolster the war effort by getting girls to become nurses.
At the same time as it's somewhat annoying (like reading later L.
Books had announcements at the front they were using different paper to help the war effort.
It became an intrinsic part of who we were as a people and everyone was aware of the kind of sacrifice the whole country was making.
It was a very different time and society from the one we live in today.
As a character, Cherry is a little flat, but I still enjoyed this one.
Oh, well, at least he mixes things up a little bit.
I kind of wish there was no mystery because it makes the story seem less believable, and I find that it interrupts the flow of the book.
It seems like her dad kind of ignores her, and just sends her home when she becomes a bother.
I love the descriptions of nursing and how it was viewed back then: “a nurse has to care for people’s minds and hearts, as well as their physical ills” (65).
This book is from 1943 and is, of course, somewhat influenced by the war.
Cherry is a young girl who wants to become a nurse and this book tells about her first experiences.
It goes into how she makes friends, what types of things she is expected to do, and various problems that arise for her.
It also tells how she had gotten interested in nursing.She has a lot of work to do and, at times, gets reprimanded.
She misses her family, of course.
The book is one which is obviously meant to influence girls to get into nursing.
this is about cherry ames senior year as a student at spencer hospital and her life as she persues her life as a student nurse and helps her friend elderly dr. joe who had been friend, doctor and neighbor back home, and who,s daughter midge cherry had helped to keep an eye on since the death of dr joe,s wife some years before, and also pursuing a brief friendship and possible romance with a young doctor. her adventures as she completes her training and graduates as a full fledged nurse make good reading for the young
So, the other night my Kindle crashed and I felt helpless- what to read??? I grabbed the closest book and this was it. Published in 1944, I enjoyed the historical aspect of being a student nurse during this time period. What a long way we have come- from anesthesia to antibiotics, the advances are amazing. And too, the fact that student nurses used to staff the hospital wards instead of RNs.Maybe I'll read the next book in the series when I want a break from more contemporary fiction.
Eh. It was no Sue Barton.Much of the book can be used to illustrate the perils of "telling, not showing." The attempt to mix in a little Nancy Drew mystery plot felt forced. Some sections are written so beautifully that I rather think the author may have had a much longer manuscript at some point, but was told to cut to a specific length.I could also be coming up with stuff just because I wanted to like it more than I did.
Cherry seemed like a bit of a hot head to me. I didn't always like her character, and I really didn't like Lex, the doctor whom she fell in love with. That being said, it was a fun, quick read about a student nurse during WWII. Overall, though, I guess I didn't like it enough to read any more of the series.
Thanks to AMD for getting me sucked in to this endearing series. I'm glad to not have Cherry's student nurse uniform but grateful to have my own set of madcap nursing student adventures. The writing reminds me of the Betsy/Tacy/Tib series that I loved as a child--there's something about 1940s girl fiction that sucks me in! Stay tuned for more reviews of the Cherry Ames series.
I read this entire series as a kid and am rereading as an adult. I bought these books one at a time with my allowance and loved the mystery and the adventures Cherry had as a nurse. Today I can see all the changes that have been made in medicine since these were published. Still a fun quick read that brings back childhood memories.
Wells continues to demonstrate not only her crisp writing skills, but her thorough knowledge of nursing...which is a delightful change from many books which try to have a particular subject synthesizing bits of the story, but lack any knowledge or excitement on the topic (I'm looking at you, Raven!). Very nice sequel to Cherry Ames, Student Nurse.
This is my first time reading Cherry Ames and I loved it. Cherry is more 3D than most characters in youth books. It was a neat story written during World War II. My only complaint? Lex. I just hated him and did not understand why Cherry liked him.
While there were many times that I found myself thinking "omg that is so outdated", there were an equal amount of "how she feels is so spot on!", especially when she was trying to decide what to do after graduation. This book stands the test of time to me.
I enjoyed reading this book because it paints an accurate picture of the nursing profession during World War II. However, it does not accurately reflect nursing as it is today. Any girl interested in nursing as a career should read more contemporary sources.
I love the Cherry Ames series! As with the first book, this one was very charming and a fun insight into nursing in the 1940s. I look forward to reading the next book, where Cherry is a "real" nurse!
