https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18929673-tarawa
Probably the best telling of this white-hot battle from someone who saw it all first-hand. Chilling.
This is a reprint of a 1944 edition of a war correspondent's story of the invasion of Tarawa during World War II by the Second Marine Division and the Army's 27th Infantry Division. It is full of personal experiences and contains a list of the American casualties suffered at Tarawa.

This is the straight tic-toc of the battle for Betio Island in the Tarawa atoll in 1943.
A Marine division attacked about 5000 japanese dug in on the island and took it in 6 days of incredibly bloody fighting, among the highest casualty rates the US has ever endured.
Sherrod lands and keeps a straight diary of what happened, with lots of personal colour in the style of new reports of the day.
This is a must read for any WWII enthusiast, for it is brief, compelling and illuminating.
A very easy, engrossing read although it might be too explicit for those below 8th grade.
Written by a correspondent who went in with the assault waves this details, at a personal level, the bloody attack.
Some though seem timeless, the growing disenchantment with the media on the part of the Marines as the media fail to make clear the difficulty of combat and the challenges ahead to win the war.
A classic read, he shows that no matter how much ordinance, no matter the technology, in the end, its the infantry that has to go in and do the bloody, deadly work necessary to win a war.
I forced myself to read all the details about how men died in this battle.
The Marines were astonished at the fortifications the Japanese had built using huge, thick coconut logs and at those defenders who hid themselves in the top of coconut trees and sniped until they died.
Death was prolonged because the trees were high, they secreted themselves well and probably didn't expect to survive.Casualties were very high though for the most part details were kept from the American public to keep up morale at home.
But the runways were not ruined and the Seabees were able to build on some of the fortifications the Japanese had built.
excellent readThis is an excellent first-hand account. Unfortunately, this edition seems to be an OCR scan that was never proofread. There are hundreds of scanning errors, a few of which obscure the text. My favorite is the list of men who were "Muled in action."Regardless, it is a terrific read.
enjoyed the book but could only give it three stars. could have done with a good proof reader. just to many misspelled words and other errors. very distracting and took away from the story. which is a story that needs to told from one man point of view. I enjoy reading these kind of books from the view of the person who was there.
Wonderful Book, Terrible FormattingYet another example of a book being scanned and released without any eyes on the pages. Somehow Amazon must put a stop to this practice.
Extraordinary contemporary account of the Battle of Tarawa by a journalist who was there during the battle.
Written by journalist Robert Sherrod, this account of the U.S. Marines landing on the island of Tarawa during World War II is rather dry and factual… which makes the bald account of the horrors of war all the more disturbing.
The Marines captured the island after three days of intensive fighting, and with heavy losses.
Yet he was immensely proud of what the marines accomplished, their manner of getting it done, and his own part in the assault (he rode in on the first wave and survived Day 1 uninjured).
The battle of Tarawa was a major American offensive in the Central Pacific and the first amphibious landing during WWII that was met with fierce Japanese resistance.
This allows for direct quotes from soldiers and some graphic accounts of the battle from this journalist who was in the midst of the action.
It is very touching when he lists the names of those killed or wounded in battle.
This is not a perfect account but worth the quick read for those with any particular interest in Tarawa as a major battle in the Pacific Theater of Operations.
What is also interesting aspect his personal comments on the war and how Americans at home don't understand the sacrafices that the Marines are making to win the war.
Also, in the middle of his account he comments on the coal workers' strike back home for higher wages while Marines are losing their lives.
This is an excellent account of the preparations, the actual assault and touring the whole island after it was secured.
I don't know if later editions have been edited or uncensored.
My edition was a wartime edition paperback printed August 1944.
War from a different perspectiveI found Sherrod's Tarawa very entertaining, the invasion as experienced by a war correspondent.
A different take than a military tale, yet done by a man experienced in military procedure.
Well written but horribly edited, or it was written on a smart phone with schizophrenic autocorrect.
Sometimes distracting, mystifying, and funny ( he had a look on his face), they are constant, almost every page.
Still the book is recommended, it's an easy and enjoyable read.
Note, the appendix listing the casualties takes up a good third of the book, so it's rather a quick read too.
Outstanding first-hand narrative of this horrific engagement in the Central Pacific in November 1943.
The taking of Tarawa by U.S. Marines was the first ever amphibious assault on a fortified shore.
Though Tarawa is only about a square mile in size, over 6000 lives were lost in its attack and defense.
This book is very well written by a war corespondent who participated in the landing and witnessed one of the most brutal and costly battles in the PTO (Pacific Theater of Operations).
It's only 150 pages, but expertly conveys the purpose and price of victory of this little patch of sand.
An excellent story about the events on Tarawa late November 1943 written by a war correspondent. The book lists names of many soldiers, general locations of burial, has a fairly complete roster of the dead in the back, and describes what war is really like. This book was so good and now so important to the WWII research and writing I do, I have to buy my own copy so I can read it again and take notes in the book. Highly recommend if you want to understand what was was like.
This was a very interesting narative of the invasion of Tarawa during WWII by the American troops. It was interesting because it was a true story written by a reporter who was there taking part in the carnage. It is a great reminder of how ugly war is and the heroism of hundreds of thousands of me and women that have fought to maintain our freedoms.
This book is out of print, but I'm glad I found one on eBay. War is ugly, and the stories of the battles are often spun at home for political purposes. This was never more true than of the strategic battle of Tarawa. This book is the real story of the battle. So thankful for the brave men who sacrificed for America's freedom.
TarawaReally enjoy reading about this timeframe but found it hard to get through this book. Not saying it was a bad read. It was informative in many ways, just not as flowing as I expected.
Great readGreat read overall... Puts an important battle in the eyes of someone that was there and all the heroics that men went through for the love of country.
very good book
We will never fully appreciate the sacrifices made during WWII. No book gives you a better taste of what war truly is. How so sad. Must read for history buffs.
Anyone who wants to know the terror and heroism of war can read this book by a war correspondents closeup look at the bloodiest battle of the second world war.
