https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16120760-the-shock-of-the-fall
But I wouldn’t call mentally ill young people and their lives in and out of institutions a hidden part of life , there are movies (Broken, Silver Linings Playbook, etc etc) and books ( Henry’s Demons – recommended - and lots of others), it’s not terra incognita.There are books which, because of the sheer skill with which every word is chosen, linger in your mind for days.(Wow, fire that blurb writer!
I always find it hard to write reviews about meh books.
The book is supposedly revelations of how it really is to be schizophrenic and what life in a mental institution is really like and the author is a mental nurse so he knows.
I didn't see this in the book at all.As far as how it really is in mental institutions, how the staff really are, there were no revelations.
A few of the patients' behaviour is so peculiar that most of the other patients who are "ill" think that they are crazy.I just don't know what was supposed to be so brilliant about this book.
I'm nineteen years old, and the only thing I have any control over in my entire world is the way I choose to tell this story.
It would be nice if you'd try to trust me." I am so fascinated by books that depict mental illnesses.
"If people think you're MAD, then everything you think, will have MAD stamped across it." A lot of the story is based in my hometown of Bristol, UK, which I didn't realise at the time of picking this book, so that was a nice surprise.
I read this for Kimi's birthday tomorrow, Nov. 29!
It is a daring but successful endeavor on the part of the author to unravel the tangled world a person with schizophrenia lives in.It’s a devastating but eye-opening reading experience as Matthew relates in this unadulterated voice how a person like him copes with his kind of illness.
It’s the kind a reader has to be very patient with in order to appreciate it.
It’s the kind of read that you should be in the right mood in to appreciate it.
This book was beautiful. I'm tempted to flip back to the first page and read it again.
A heartbreakingly beautiful account of trauma, grief, and mental illness. Still processing so much about this story, but it's one that will stay with me for a while. 4.5 stars
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Sometimes I read books so obsessively that I end up with something like this when I’m finished: Uploaded with ImageShack.usThen I sit around for a week (or two, or twelve) because I have no idea how to write the review.It only seems fitting that someone like me (who clearly has an undiagnosed mental disorder) would flag the holy hell out of a book about a fellow with a mental disorder. It also seems fitting that I should let Matthew do
Uploaded with ImageShack.usThen I sit around for a week (or two, or twelve) because I have no idea how to write the review.It only seems fitting that someone like me (who clearly has an undiagnosed mental disorder) would flag the holy hell out of a book about a fellow with a mental disorder.
It also seems fitting that I should let Matthew do most of the talking when it comes to telling you what this book is about.Matthew has been raised by a mother who “is thin and pale, with cold hands.
He’ll tell you that “you notice it when he isn’t there anymore.
It must be me since reviews of this book were overly positive but I honestly don't know why I took the time to finish reading this novel.
It is certainly neither stunning nor a book that one would have a hard time putting down, and I would never recommend this book considering the wealth of options available to readers.The only positive aspect of this novel is that it presents a very realistic glimpse of what mental illness looks and feels like.
The underlying secret behind Matthew's illness was predictable but Filer attempted to attach some level of mystery to the disclosure by waiting until the end of the book to reveal what had happened early in Matthew's life.
This book is quite simply unlike anything else I have ever read, that is without doubt or question.
This book encompassed so many themes on death, grieving and mental health issues that it also feels like it lasted so much longer than it really did - though without dragging in the slightest.Moreover, the experience that Nathan Filer has gained as a mental health nurse is apparent through his irreverent treatment of the subject matter.
Even better was that Filer managed to inject sharp bursts of humour which cut through what could otherwise be an oppressive narrative to entertain and make the work somehow more real.This book is difficult and it is also disturbing.
Such an unbelievably honest story.
Such an engaging read, straight into my favourites for the year!- This novel follows the story of a young man named Matthew.
We are told of the tragic death of Matthew's brother during childhood and how he blames himself for its occurrence.
We watch as his mental health suffers under the pressure of the self-inflicted guilt surrounding his brothers death.
If you have any interest in mental health or specifically schizophrenia this is a must read!- 5 out of 5 stars and I will definitely be picking up anything else from Filer in the future!
Where the Moon Isn’t is a story told by Matthew Homes, a mentally ill nineteen-year-old.
He makes constant remarks about his mental stability, and his reasons for writing the story.Matthew’s problems started when he lost his older brother Simon.
But when Simon died in an accident partly caused by Matthew, he kept on living in Matthews head, a product of his guild and schizophrenia combined.From the start, Matthew’s placement in the mental institution and his slightly odd storytelling hint at the possibility that he’s not the most reliable of narrators.
Even though Matthew grows in this story, his mental illness isn’t taken lightly as something that can be fixed overnight.
I have never read anything quite like this book before, it is a unique experience traveling along in the mindset of a mentally ill young man.
First time book for author Nathan Filer, and since he was a mental health nurse in previous years, he knew what he was writing about.Matthew, our unreliable narrator, has a voice that is very real and very innocent.
In the beginning I wondered what was going on in this book but as the reader continues with the story , he is amply rewarded.
More and more things are revealed as Matthews story goes back and forth.
Nathan Filer's Debut Novel The Shock of The Fall is haunting and very real insight to death and mental illness.I was recommended this novel and was assured it was a good audio book as I struggle with audio as opposed to reading and I have to say the narrator is excellent and he totally draws you into the character of Matthew to such an extinct that you feel it is actually Matthew narrating the story.Matt Holmes is a 19 year old schizophrenic struggling within the mental health system who decides to put his thoughts to paper when his Nana buys him an old typewriter and hopes his scribbling and notes will be therapeutic and bring him some freedom.
It is a brave and groundbreaking novel from one of the most exciting new voices in fiction.My favorite aspect of this book was probably the style of narration and the fact that the book was a metafiction in some ways.
I will say however, that I was very happy that I knew about this style of narration before going into this book, because it might’ve confused me at first.
However, sometimes it feels like a romance is just thrown into the story for good measure.
This book completely worked without romance (even though I would still say that it's a book about love...
What is spectacular about this book is how immersed in our main character you get, he is telling the story of his life, his feelings, thoughts, his mental illness, it's a bit like sitting in the room with someone, listening avidly to their life story.
And feeling things along the way.The book cleverly gives you snippets of a story, then later on you get more of that story to give you the fuller picture, so there is a lot of a-ha moments, at least there was for me.
Is it worth all the hype and a must read book?
احساس گناه ناشی از اون حادثه و شرایط زندگیش توی سال های بعد باعث میشه دچار فروپاشی روانی بشه و داستان روایتی پراکنده است از زمانی که در بیمارستان روانی بستریه و زمانی که اون حادثه اتفاق افتاده.
من از نزدیک با بیمارای مبتلا به اختلالات روانی برخورد نداشتم اما روایت داستان از زبان مت به قدری واقعی و قابل درک بود که حس می کنم یک بیماری با اختلال متیو قطعا این طور با دنیای اطراف و درون خودش درگیره.
در کل اگر فکر می کنین روایت پراکنده استان گیج و خسته اتون نمی کنه و داستان هایی با تم روان شناسی علاقه دارین حتما این کتاب رو بخونین.
The book was not "compelling" either, I've read more compelling stories on the back of the washing powder box.
I must admit the part I liked the most was when we got to the core of the story, the death of Simon.
The writing was "compelling" then for a couple of pages.
If the book was written like that for at least more than 70% of the time 5*.
(Well maybe 4) I like movement and the story was just too slow.
Well done to Nathan Filer for writing a prize winning book - fair play to him.
I acknowledge that it is a traumatic memory for Matthew but it didn't make much sense for him to wait so long to tell the reader given that Simon was one of the main subject matters of the book and also because he was undergoing treatment for a large part of the story which involved counselling which would usually involve confronting traumatic memories.
When a book is being told from the perspective of a character, the reader is inside the character's head and therefore there are no secrets.
I think that the story would have been better told from the perspective of Simon's mother or else a third person narrative with Matthew still being a main character.
The story is narrated by Matthew, a nineteen year old schizophrenic who recalls the sudden, tragic death of his older brother, Simon – a death which he believes he caused.The use of mixed formats, different fonts interspersed with occasional line drawings cleverly mirrors the ebb and flow of Matthew’s mental illness.
این پراکندگی روایت ها خیلی اذیت کننده بود به نظرم، مخصوصا که علاوه بر پراکندگی، بعضی جاها روایت هایی تعریف میشد که فقط زاییده ذهن متیو بودن و تو باید خودت اینو میفهمیدی که این روایت ها واقعی هستن یا نه!و از نظر من ترجمه خیلی بدی بود، نمیدونم من اشتباه میکنم یا واقعا اینطور بود. جمله ها خیلی نامنسجم بودن انگار!
The Shock of the Fall ili Where the Moon isn't (ovaj drugi naslov je svakako bolji) je priča o Metjuu, koji je sve samo ne još jedan od običnih književnih junaka.Odmah u startu čitaoci su svesni da on nije jednostavan, da je nešto drugačije u njemu, njegovom načinu razmišljanja i da je pritisnut mnogim bolima, tugom i krivicom.U priči koju on priča, tj.
Roman je uistinu prošaran živopisnim likovima.Osim toga, roman je prožet i odličnim humorom (poprilično crnim), čak i pored toga što se bavi ozbiljnim problemima - opakom bolešću uma, detetom sa daunovim sindromom,...Fajler ima dara za pisanje i odlično je primenio malo drugačiji stil koji savršeno odgovara glavnom liku i njegovom problemu.
We are selfish my illness and I.
To describe the descent into schizophrenia in such a vivid and moving way, you must have some experience with this illness in real life.
So it made perfect sense when I read that the author has been a registered mental health nurse, working in psychiatric wards, for more than a decade.I think what I liked most about the book, is how Nathan Filer played with time.
The story keeps jumping around in time, and quite a few times I wasn't sure where we were.
This is what it must be like for Mat all the time - Time falls through my fingers.
Tragic and beautiful.
The Shock of the Fall is a character portrait rather than a narrative driven book - unfortunately, for a character piece, I never really felt like Matt had much of a well-defined character to start with; it’s sketchy at best and oftentimes feels uneven.
What I mean is, was the point of the novel about a person coming to terms with a traumatic childhood experience or about someone dealing with mental illness, and if so, why have these two unconnected elements side by side - what’s the reader supposed to focus on?
I guess given the way the novel ended, it was about Matt coming to terms with his brother’s death, but what that has to do with his schizophrenia is unclear.
Narrated by Matthew, a young adult, in the grip of schizophrenia, whose life has been hugely impacted on by the death of his brother Simon some years previously, Filer captures the true voice of and frustrations that Matthew experiences as his illness waxes and wanes throughout the book.
Filer also stresses the impact of Matthew's schizophrenia on Matthew's family in a number of carefully wrought tableaus that really bring home the darkness of mental illness on the perceived normality of family life.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xIgZQ...Curta-metragem inspirada no livro "O Choque da Queda"Ler é um pouco como ter uma alucinação." (Pág.
Matthew Holmes tem nove anos e magoou-se num joelho enquanto brincava, no parque de campismo de Ocean Cove, em Dorset, com o seu irmão Simon, três anos mais velho, que tem uma “cara… grande e redonda, estava sempre a sorrir e lembrava-me a Lua….
Durante esse tempo estou muito mais interessado nos meus sonhos do que na realidade, porque ocupam uma parte maior do meu tempo.
É como se cada um de nós tivesse uma parede que separa os sonhos da realidade, mas a minha tem fissuras.
226) "Ler é um pouco como ter uma alucinação." (Pág.
I spent a lot of time looking at how the original British title -- The Shock of the Fall, a line repeated throughout the book -- and the original British descriptive copy became Americanized.
It is a brave and groundbreaking novel from one of the most exciting new voices in fiction.The American copy, I found, was kind of misleading:While on vacation with their parents, Matthew Homes and his older brother snuck out in the middle of the night.
The book is narrated by nineteen-year-old Matthew, a schizophrenic who has spent some time in a residential facility and bounces around an outpatient setting.
J'ai tout aimé : l'histoire, Matthew, le personnage principal, ses parents, Simon son frère disparu, les personnages secondaires mais aussi l'écriture, particulièrement incisive et bouleversante.
Ce qui m'a particulièrement intéressée c'est la relation qu'il avait avec son frère, malgré le handicap de Simon, une sorte de complémentarité existait entre eux.
Les personnages secondaires sont particulièrement attachants : les parents qui vivent dans une douleur muette perpétuelle et qui essaient de donner le change pour que la vie continue malgré tout, la grand-mère qui ne baisse pas les bras et reste l'un des plus grands soutiens de Matthew.Avec cette écriture vivante, dynamique et incisive, Nathan Filer arrive à faire ressentir au lecteur les états d'âmes de chacun de ses personnages.
The first thing that came to my mind when I started reading this book was that it somehow reminded me of The Catcher in the Rye by J D Salinger.
After reading this blurb, I picked up the book immediately:"I’ll tell you what happened because it will be a good way to introduce my brother.
Matthew suffers from a mental illness and tries to deal with the death of his older brother Simon, which is basically the point where everything starts going downhill for Matt.
Matt's mental illness was not taken lightly in this book, and this is what made it feel so realistic in my opinion.
