https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61115.Possible_Side_Effects
He also loved it.Favorite quotes:Although my parents never attended church or mentioned Jesus except when they screamed at each other—and then they used his full name, 'Jesus Fucking Christ'.I am prone to envy.
This made me feel actual pain, so extreme was my hair envy.Now maybe I'm just ultrajudgmental, but I really feel that only two groups of people have any business collecting dolls: little girls and grown women who lost all their children in fiery car accidents.
Even people that i loathed and wished would get caught in a grinding, malfunctioning escalator.There is a little German in me, therefore I don't do cuddly.Be excited when you encounter cosmetic surgery mistakes.
The snobbery that made "Running with Scissors" and "Dry" ever so memorable & unique is dispersed, often in gigantic dollops, within these memoirs that are often so much like the musings of a child: i.e. Inconsequential. The tee-hee anecdotes vary from physical ailments and childhood misunderstandings, to newer first world traumas (no need for that) and--my favorites--additional stories, unexpected returns to Burrough's first (& best) memoir, of his demented mother.
It's very funny to read someone make mean, truthful observations about life - things that you yourself would never think or say...but you can't exactly fault his reasoning either.But the reason I find this less than enjoyable most of the time is because it makes me sad that he thinks humans are so...well, not exactly evil, but only out for themselves - selfish and ruthless in equal parts.When I finish a book by him, I can shake off this gloomy worldview and return to my normal, cheerful self.
Augusten Burroughs is that wonderfully witty guy in the cubicle behind the filing cabinet who sends you snarky e-mails about your co-worker's shoes and your boss' receding hairline.
Oh, how I wish I knew this guy in person!
"Side Effects" is another collection of stories of dysfunctional relationships, love affairs gone awry, childhood horror stories, and more tales of life in the big city.
Though he's covered much of this same ground before, the essays are never repetitive or boring; instead, I grow to love Burroughs more and more as he reveals ever-deeper layers of himself, his insecurities, and his quirks and foibles.
I enjoyed Running With Scissors as much as anyone else who enjoys a read that makes your family look significantly less fucked up, so I decided that I'd give Possible Side Effects a shot.
I found this book to be a lot less organized than Running With Scissors, and the essays themselves offered little to no payoff.
The difference here is that the essays in Running With Scissors were significantly more engaging, so I was able to overlook a lot of the anticlimactic conclusions.
Some of the stories in Possible Side Effects invoke nothing more than a "so?" response that made it hard for me to get through the whole book.
I don't doubt there are freaks out there who would want this kind of memorabilia, but our author seems to be a little too proud of it for me to like him.
Stories further into the book pick up a little for me, but I'm not sure if it's because they were truly more entertaining and better written, or if it's because I felt nostalgic for the places Augusten described, since I went to college in Western Mass.
Entertainment Weekly editors must have been on laughing gas to call this man one of the 15 funniest.
You want to know why I love Augusten Burroughs so? Because he writes sentences like this:“And with these words – I don’t think you’re supposed to be aware of your own heartbeat – this unknown woman in a burnt orange poncho doomed me to a life of pathological overawareness of my own cardiac activity.” That right there is just fucking brilliant writing. The chapter entitled "The Wisdom Tooth" where they stay at an inn owned by a doll collector is classic. That essay should be studied in colleges everywhere.
Augusten Burroughs gives me a happy. While Running With Scissors contains MANY shocking/graphic/awful stories that are frosted with humor, Possible Side Effects provides all the giggle without the remorse of laughing at someone else’s expense. Burroughs’ essays are sheer comedic genius. Truly laugh out loud funny – so much so that I was CONSTANTLY inundated with “what’s so funny, Mom?????” from the small people who live with me. FYI – the appropriate answer to that question when reading Augusten Burroughs 99.9999% of the time is “NOTHING!”
Like reaching past the Harvest Wheat and grabbing the Coco Puffs and loving it.
This is no wonder,as I am not a fan of David Sedaris, either; these two authors share a lot of similarities in my opinion.
They both assume that the reader knows who they are and have read all of their previous books, so therefore the reader knows all of their boyfriend's idiosyncrasies.While reading this book, I came to realize that the stories had the potential to be very funny, but because of the author's attitude, I found myself not liking HIM.
Because I have come to dislike the author as a person, his stories would have a difficult time becoming funny to me.
I am about halfway through this collection of autobiographical essays, and I love it every bit as much as I loved "Magical Thinking." Burroughs presents himself as this detached, selfish, self-absorbed man, but the stories he shares reveal him to be a tenderhearted person who is acutely aware of his foibles.I love reading about his relationship with Dennis.
I love that he marvels that someone as wonderful as Dennis could love him so much.
Their unabashed adoration of their dogs hits home with me.Burroughs is unpretentious, honest, insightful and a deft manipulator of the English language.
What more could a reader want?
I don't know if it's a new thing but, there seems to be a developing genre of authors who's focus is on their own lives, which have been tortured by mental illness and any number of substance abuse problems.
Ernest Hemingway?Whether it is a new genre or not, Augusten Burroughs' writing falls squarely in this realm.
There is a dangerous edge to most of the writing in "Possible Side Effects" that makes it as powerful, thought provoking and compelling as it is funny.I really can't say enough good things about this book.
Reminiscent of the works of David Sedaris (amusing anecdotes told tongue-in-cheek and very much informed by the sexual identity of the author) these stories lack the reluctant depth that keeps Sedaris afloat.
Although Burroughs has clearly endured some trying experiences, he lacks either the writing chops or the perspective to transfer them to the page in a non-static way.
Although some of his tales are lovely and funny, some of them fall quite flat, as though tossed in between the real stories to bulk up the length.
(Not all of the stories are listed below).*** I've tried to place them in the order that I liked them.Required Reading:Try Our New Single Black Mother Menu ("So if McDonald's is for blacks, what's for whites?"), Moving Violations ("I would then hold the picture against the window and Debby would either speed up to pass the offending car, or she would slow down so they could get a good look.
'A moving van.'"), Kitty, Kitty ("And then I thought, maybe seeing for myself means something, makes a difference."), You've Come a Long Way, Baby!
Dry is a fantastic book - funny, heartbreaking, insane, moving, all the words you want to use to describe a memoir - and Running with Scissors is hysterical and troubling.
This book is a collection of short works, which, while still good reading, falls short of Burroughs' standard.Burroughs' short fiction, in my opinion, lacks the depth of his other writing.
Some stories are incredible, but a lot of them fall short of the mark.
Even at his most disappointing, Augusten Burroughs is a talented writer and always worth the couple of hours and $15 tops that it costs to read one of his books.
He writes very well for a self confessed high school drop-out.
Each chapter is an event from a period in his life, which he weaves into something which is eminently re-tellable.
Perhaps it is just my own sense of connection with events which had me nodding along between chuckles and often finding myself inadvertently making a mental note of a life lesson.
Definitely an easy read and one i went into with no expectations or prior knowledge and have ended up excitedly wishing to share parts and reading out loud passages to friends and writing more than a couple of words of review..
This book shows what happens when you go back to the well and the well is dry. I hated it.
While I truly enjoyed the majority of the book, my enthusiasm was dampened a bit by the author’s stories about his experiences buying dogs.“Kitty, Kitty,” chronicles the author’s short-lived ownership of a Wheaten terrier puppy named, well, KittyKitty.
KittyKitty turns out to be too overwhelming for Augusten (that’s another feature of irresponsible pet shops: they don’t assess a customer’s ability to care for an animal, only pay for him).
However, I found myself mourning for KittyKitty’s parents, still trapped at the puppy mill.One would think after this disastrous experience, Burroughs would swear off buying dogs.
I finished Augusten Burroughs' breakthrough memoir Running with Scissors a few months ago, and I must say that I totally loved every page of it.
I picked up Possible Side Effects, expecting the same thrill and excitement I felt when I read Running with Scissors.
Some stories just ended up being disappointing because there seemed to be no point in writing and publishing them in the first place.It is pretty evident that I was a little disappointed when I finished this book.
It seemed like he recycled some stories from his previous memoirs and stuck them together in this book.
Along with his horrifyingly vivid description of his early teen sexual experience with a 30 year old man, I felt like he was trying to hard to be shocking for the sake of being shocking.
In "Possible Side Effects", it seemed that Burroughs didn't try to force things.
I made the mistake of reading "GWF seeks same" during my Latin class.
"Possible Side Effects" isn't a great book, but I definitely liked it.
I hear that "Magical Thinking" is his best book yet, so that'll be the next one I try.
I think his purpose for writing this book was to entertain.
He writes a series of stories about his past to teach lessons, and to entertain readers.
Readers can explain that Augusten is not meaning to be funny with his life situations, but ends up being hilarious.
From collecting college t-shirts to nicotine gum, this story is endless humor.The theme in this book isn’t that hard to find.
Augustens trying to make readers realize we are all clumsy sometimes, and those situations can always turn out to be life lessons.
I would rate this book five stars, because of the humor and the relatable situations.
To me it seems like Burroughs's agent said "hey, man, enough time has gone by since we last published a book, you should do another one" and Burroughs complied with a series of essays that are...unremarkable, so far: little blog posts of short memoirs, to which there seems to be no theme and no purpose, just the certainty that the author has a big enough name and a big enough following that people will buy whatever he writes, whether or not it's interesting.
Possible Side Effects shows us more than anything that Burroughs is living a happy, successful life.
I find it hard to not be happy that Burroughs has reached this pinnacle in his life.
However, it's not as interesting to read about his happy life with his partner Dennis or his success as an author as it is to read about him living with his mom's shrink or going through rehab.
I would recommend the book if you are simply curious about what's been going on with Augusten Burroughs, or if you want a light no-hassle read for a few days.
There were also moments of deep-felt recognition of the truth of his pain and the pain suffered by folks struggling to survive addiction and mental illness, whether their own or otherwise.
More than anything I've ever read, this captures the dichotomy of having grown up in a home whose occupants struggle with addiction, mental illness, or abuse.
While his humor is mostly directed at himself, it isn't always, and many may, quite legitimately, find it mean.
This is dark humor.For me, it was a relief to laugh with someone who understands what it means to survive by laughing in the face of darkness.
I really enjoyed this book! I have read other books by Augusten Burroughs, and I think my familiarity with his troubled family and all of his eccentricities made the book slightly more appealing than if I had gone in blind. The essays remind me of a more low-brow David Sedaris, which I mean as a compliment to both authors. Burroughs doesn't necessarily leave you with a moral to the story like Sedaris does. Some of these stories (especially the one about adopting his dog, CowCow) had me stifling laughter on the T.
Though this book took a few stories to get into, once you make it through the first two to three chapters it really gets quite funny. I definitely found myself chuckling out loud a couple times. I was expecting this book to be a little darker, perhaps because I remember his other book Running with Scissors having some darker aspects to it, but it's really pretty light for the most part. I don't normally read short stories but I'm glad a read these, Burroughs really has a voice that stands out as his own.
Всяка глава от книгата е отделна случка от живота на автора. Това е живот на съвременен човек, с проблемите на съвременния човек - алкохолизъм, самота, липса на разбирателство, но всичко разказано много весело, леко, непринудено. Написана много остроумно, с добро чувство за хумор книга, която донякъде напомня да добрите години на Бегбеде, но без неприятната претенция на французина. Много одобрявам и ще прочета още от този американец.
sometimes when i'm reading a bunch of books about north korea and murdered women in mexico and super-creepy mysteries, it is wonderful to lighten up the mood a bit with augusten. i don't know if he is very much like me, or just very honest and very much like everyone in the world in a way we're all too scared to admit. always appreciate his dark humor and self-deprecating stories.
I am ashamed to admit that I had never read Augusten Burroughs before taking this out. I didn't want to start with "Running With Scissors" because I dislike reading books after I've already seen the film adaptation... This was a great intro. Big ups, Augusten. Perfect blend of snarkiness, wit, and self-awareness to draw me in. I did end up taking out Running with Scissors after all.
Wow. Hysterical and sad all at once. Thank you Augusten for sharing all of your layers, sparing us nothing! Once again, you have not disappointed!
