https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18820167-a-matter-of-choice
Eh. This was not Roberts best novel.
I found the name of the male hero stupid - Slade.
I didn't believe the instant connection between Jess and Slade.
I didn't believe that Jess would find Slade's overbearing, almost abusive, attitude attractive.
I didn't believe the premise of the case - it seemed highly unrealistic.
I didn't find the mystery believable or particularly suspenseful.
I have to say, though, that I don't know if I would have rated this novel so harshly if it was written by a different author.
My expectations for Nora Roberts are much higher than for other authors.
2.5 stars Both the H and h are kinda dolts in this one. Nora should have focused a bit more on the mystery and less on the romance. These two didn't work all that well together.
I *almost* added this to my historical shelf. Set in 1984 and it really shows. Everyone is smoking ALL THE TIME. Other than that, I found the mystery part of the story totally predicable and most of the characters to be total creepers. It was the style of the time. Lesson Learned. Nora Roberts is great, but I need to stick to more recent contemporaries of hers.
Writing is his first love, but for the time being, he writes after work.
Would he be able to walk away afterwards?Set some time before computers became the go-to technology for authors, and before the regular presence of cell phones, "A Matter of Choice" is a fairly predictable romance with a familiar premise, and while I enjoyed the setting and how the author brings the reader right into the world of the characters, I had it all figured out fairly early.
The story had a little more romance and less mystery than I would have liked, but it was an enjoyable read.
Este foi o primeiro livro que considero ter lido desta autora, apesar de já ter lido J. D. Robb e ter gostado muito. Este livro é pequeno, tem um prólogo e apenas 12 capítulos, e penso que podia estar melhor aproveitado. Gostei bastante das descrições das casas, mobílias e jardins e, claro está, das cenas de amor entre os protagonistas. No entanto, achei o Slader um pouco forçado em termos de personalidade. Típico “bad boy” que na verdade é um “good boy”. Estranhamente, achei este livro mais se
Este foi o primeiro livro que considero ter lido desta autora, apesar de já ter lido J.
Este livro é pequeno, tem um prólogo e apenas 12 capítulos, e penso que podia estar melhor aproveitado.
Estranhamente, achei este livro mais semelhante a J.
D. Robb do que estava à espera.
O protagonista é um polícia, a história tem bastante ação (fazendo pensar nos policiais) e as próprias cenas de amor bastante descritivas.
Estava à espera de algo diferente, mais romântico e menos impulsivo, por parte da autora.
Aconselho a quem gosta de romances com ação, tendo esta palavra todo o duplo sentido que possam pensar.
As usual, a great read.I don't like to go into detail about a book as I don't want to spoil it for others.Nora Roberts is a consummate storyteller and consistently, seemingly effortlessly takes you into her vision.This is one of her earlier works so lacks the maturity and depth of her more current books but, even so, her writing surpasses most, if not all, novelists.Seamlessly combining mystery with the classic romance novel elements to a rarified level Ms. Roberts has once again worked her magic.
I'm so glad she writes male protagonists that are actually likable now, because wow.That was a common problem in the 80s though, and Nora was not immune. I really liked the main character, Jessica, though. And the story was great, definitely something she'd do now, but with a better male lead. Sorry, Slade. You just weren't enough for me to go gaga over.
Not because of the subject matter, but the voice and narrative style sound dated even for a Silhouette.The suspense was good with the mystery of just who in Jessica's closer circle was the baddie, while the identity of the main villain, the one pulling the strings, didn't even matter that much in the end.But once you move away from the mystery, there's not much else there.
The heroine seemed like a flake, the hero was an ass, their "romance" was rather forced and rushed, and their passion was a tad too rough to make the romance believable.In the end they were more like strangers talking about being in love.The pacing was slow, the voice rather weird...It didn't "sound" like a Nora Roberts book at all.
I kind of got tricked into reading this because I sorted the NR books available for my Nook from the library by publication date and this came out on top and had an unfamiliar title, so I thought this was new.
But apparently publication to them means date it was put into e-book form, because this is almost as old as I am.
As such, it has a lot of "she said no but her eyes said yes" and "kissed her to shut her up" bullshit in it.
But it was kind of interesting to see how NR's writing improved as her plots calmed down (Interpol?
Great bookI started reading and couldn't put it down until I finished.I can't wait for the next Nora Roberts book.
After reading several of Nora Roberts novels, I expected more.
Maybe it has a lot to do with when this was written, but the whole thing was far too predictable.Sergeant James "Slade" Sladerman was sent to Connecticut to keep an eye on the commissioners goddaughter.
Immediately, the two found a connection - it was typical and expected.
The whole connection was just weird and I wish there would have been some sort push with Jessica.
Again, the predictability was too high - it was obvious that it was Michael or David.If this novel had focused on the heist a little more than the romance, it might have been better.

well to be honest.. i really enjoyed the book .. thr romance.. the thrill.. the way the story was written it was all smooth... the setup plot was a bit weak though.. for it seemed that..all the case was too easy to figure out.. who the culprit was akready could be evident and could be guessed without much brainy thoughts.. the love story was great but somehow the power of grasping a strong plot story loosened here.. Slade and Jess was indeed a pair!! Im glad it didnt just end up broken relationship..
Another great story.Interesting characters grab the attention of the reader from the first page. Enjoyable progression of mystery and romance. I really liked the people in this book, but I've never read any of Me. Roberts' books I didn't like.
A Good Read, enough said.
Slade and JessicaJessica and Slade fall in love while Slade saves her life and gets the bad guys while he is undercover taking down corrupt importers.
Mediocre offering from one of my favourite go-to authors.
Mystery and RomanceThis Nora Roberts book is full of intrigue and romance. Enjoyed the characters and plot. Quick read and kept my interest.
quick easy ready really enjoyed
Gaaahh! What did I just read??!!
More of a bodice ripper than anything else. I was hoping for more of a plot.
Too shortIt's like the introductory paragraph of a great story, and then they dump you, I don't like it makes me mad.
Interesting and easy read. Enjoyed the story.
No doubt this was the story by Nora Roberts that I most enjoyed so far, even though the romance continues to seem forced as in the other books I had the opportunity to read.The ingredients are almost the same, a writer is looking for inspiration to finish his/her literary work (although in this book the writer is also a policeman), so he/she moves into the home of a member of the opposite sex to whom he/she feels attracted to.
There may be hope for this author and me.By the way, just a question for anyone who is a fan of Nora Roberts.

With an original published date in 1984, this is an early Nora Roberts and it is a product of the times.
Having been a Nora fan for a good few years it is interesting to have read one of these earlier books to see how much has changed in her story telling and still how much is the same.Jess is a bit TSTL at times which always annoys me in any story and I think the more modern heroines she writes are not quite so bad.
Such a 90s Harlequin Romance.
SUCH an example.
But, read in that light, a fast and fun read.
Jessica Winslow is a ditzy heiress who runs a highly successful antiques shop.
One that is also successful in importing stolen items.
Which is why Seargeant James "Slade" Sladerman (who would rather be a writer) is assigned to watch her.
Along with the usual "I'm not good enough for him/her for [insert Reasons]." But, whatever.
Read it with a grain of salt (for goodness sake, Slade is doing some Super Important Sleuthing while smoking) and just enjoy the ride.
Slade gets ordered to become an undercover operative with the FBI.
They are about to just open a smuggling ring.
Only problem is the Commissioners Goddaughter is a possible suspect.
Slade has to protect Jessica and find out who is using her antique business as a cover.
He doesn't want to like Jess but can't help himself.
She thinks he is an author who has been hired to help her organize her library.
Her life is in danger when a shipment of diamonds gets delivered to her house instead of the business.


