https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/725027.The_Organization_Man
Although I had had good marks in high school, I came from a small town in the Midwest.
My dad was a school teacher in that small town, hence had nothing in common with Whyte's Organization Man; and hence I really didn't know what he was talking about, I suppose.
The other thing was, one had to have something of a grown-up point of view to take in a book like this, it certainly wasn't written for kids.
I learned about grown-up outlooks, things of real interest to adults, how to be an adult in college.
It's called The Organization Man. It was written in 1956 by William Whyte, and it's about time that I learned what the book says.When I was a girl, I held a secret deep and true, and that was that somehow even though I was female I would grow up to be an "Organization Man." My dad was an Organization Man, and my best friend's dad was an Organization Man, and the kids' next door, their dad was an Organization Man.I wasn't sure what it meant exactly - It was just a book laying around our house - but I knew my dad was one, in my simplistic view because he wore a hat, and a suit, and he went to work downtown every day.
I bookmooched this just to read a couple of chapters on a Chicago suburb called Park Forest.
I started reading somewhere in the middle and became so engrossed that when I finished I started back at the beginning.
We also see that this model of business, an employee faithful to a company for an entire career, faded away.
In fact, the generation that Whyte writes about is really the only one to receive the benefits of a job like this.
Some of the companies he writes about ultimately smoked their employees with retirement, downgrades, things like that.
The chapter on the way suburban neighborhoods work is great.
I read this about a dozen years ago in grad school, and I believe it is one of the seminal academic books of mid-century America.
Whyte documented the radical shift in social importance that large corporations had attained along with their economic preeminence.However, the book is obsolete as anything but sociological history.
Today, there is no lack of scathing criticism concerning the faithlessness of the typical corporation, and wise employees have long learned to plan for the possibility of being laid off, even by a corporation that is profitable.For a more complete view of the impact the book made at the time, and on the author's later contributions, the Economist has an excellent short review of this classic here.­
This book was originally published in 1956 and reissued in 2002.It was remarkably prescient in its warning against conformity and groupthink. Whyte advocated a healthy ecosystem of divergent personality types and thinking patterns in order to build more resilient companies/communities/societies. This is a very topical and thought-provoking book and I am enjoying it immensely.
It's all that and a bag of myers briggs tests... I love books like this, It calls bullshit on about a century of management theory, oddly enough, it was written in the middle of that century, making even more telling.
If you read it, check the Wikipedia page on the Park Forest suburb outside Chicago where Whyte did extensive studies.The chapter "The Fight Against Genius" is brilliant and may be my favorite.
Whyte could predict this - he discusses a similar structure in a company in the 1950's...which also doesn't do what's intended - driving far too applied research rather than blue sky research.All in all, this book should be mandatory today.
My experience with massive corporate world has made it clear: Business schools didn't learn the lessons from this book that they should have.
40-те и 50-те години на миналия век са знаменателни в много отношения, включително и икономическо.
Големите корпорации излизат като основни играчи на световната икономическа сцена и създават нова корпоративна култура.Именно на тази нова корпоративна култура (вече стара, но тогава нова) е посветена книгата - на нейната униформеност, пренебрежение към иновациите за сметка на упоритата работа, при която всеки е просто болтче в голямата машина и се очаква да посвети живота си за нея.Паралелите с държавната администрация са очевидни и много интересни.

Today, students graduating go work for organizations. Whether you're an engineer, a teacher, or even a doctor, you usually join some kind of company.This book is about that phenomenon, and how in joining these organizations, people place part of the control of their lives into the hands of others. Written back when large multi-national corporations were rare. It's interesting even to read about any alternative to joining large corporations.
Most see themselves as objects more acted upon than acting - and their future, therefore, determined as much by the system as by themselves.""It is easy to fight obvious tyranny; it is not easy to fight benevolence, and few things are more calculated to rob the individual of his defenses than the idea that his interests and those of society can be wholly compatible.""He must fight The Organization.
But fight he must, for the demands for his surrender are constant and powerful, and the more he has come to like the life of organization the more difficult does he find it to resist these demands, or even to recognize them.
There are still some great insights here, particularly about the tensions within the American ethos in general, as well as a prescient socio-spatial analysis of suburban neighborhoods near the end of the book that foreshadows Whyte's later work on public space.
However, The Organization Man can also be tedious at times, reminding a contemporary reader of the pop nonfiction of today but without the pithy brevity and candy-coated prose of a Malcolm Gladwell or Steven Johnson type.
La descrizione dell'etica sociale del lavoro, che ha sostituito quella protestante e ha generato gli "uomini dell'organizzazione" è assolutamente puntuale e del tutto capace di descrivere quel che è poi accaduto.
A tratti, leggendo si ha la strana sensazione che qualcosa si sia congelato nel mondo del lavoro e che siamo ancora, soprattutto dal punto di vista di nesso fra burocrazia e scientismo, a 60 anni fa.
Quando poi l'autore si inoltre nel descrivere e prevedere le sorti del sistema scolastico, la sensazione si fa raggelante.
In sintesi: testo fondamentale per chiunque studi il mondo del lavoro.
Will this book ever be non relevant? I would be really surprised if it were. The information is not just intetesting, but well organized and consistently written in a clear and complex manner.
With very few exceptions -- five would be too generous a number -- they display no energy in showing their relevance to the rest of society, and the only issue which has roused them from their shameful torpor is the possibility of being taxed." (98)"The premise is, simply, that the goals of the individual and the goals of the organization will work out to be the same." (129)"[W]hatever else it has, it has no panache." (of Park Forest, 299)"The group is a tyrant; so also is it a friend, and it is both at once." (361)"Here, finally, is the apotheosis of the social ethic.
I'm not going into detail as it was a while back when I spent way too much time with this, but far from critiquing the lameness of the "organization" guy (yes, most of the ladies were still housewives...or house wives again after WWII anyway) and the irresponsible separatist flight into potato fields aided by big tailfin-bedecked Chevys, Whyte approaches the suburban dwellers of mid-century in a very methodically open-minded way.
Despite my admiration for this, I was mostly bored to tears (no doubt the half-century separation exacerbated my ennui) and I felt, in contrast to the umpteen hundred times I've heard how provocative and indispensable this book is for any analysis of the physical/planning issues relevant to suburban culture, that only about 1.24 chapters were of any interest at all.
An important (and at times uncannily prophetic) counterpoint to the 'modernization and social progress' just-so story. Some of it is a bit dated, but the sections on religion and the academy are brilliant, and could have been written last year. The creeping sense that bureaucratization and rationalization would usher in a new era of conformity and mediocrity was delineated by Max Weber and Friedrich Nietzsche on the cusp of the twentieth century. "Organization Man" updates, extends, and challenges this critical line of thought which magnificently serves to inoculate us from technocratic hubris.
along with 'white collar' and 'lonely crowd' truly a window into our soulless, conformist, insecure, alienated 21st century existences.
i'm currently reading the chapters on suburbia, but not making a ton of headway.
i think if there's one tag that business would love to live down its this one.
i think the second it came out there was a knee-jerk response to declare "THAT'S NOT US!" and hence-forth their have been plenty of books declaring 'the death of the organization man' in my opinion, its just further evidence of the business peoples inner insecurity for what they do.
There is a copy of this book in the Smithsonian Museum of American History, in the transportation section. So much of our world has been defined by the postwar suburban mode of living -- and the tenuousness of highly leveraged families is laid out as a stark warning back in the 50's. I think that there are a number of folks still living in this world today ... though the organizations themselves have less and less use for them.
This book is interesting as a zeitgeist of 1950s corporate America, but is obsolete nowadays. Its chapters on The Organization Man in fiction were enjoyable, but the Organization as a surrogate father seems to be a pipe dream nowadays. Companies focus nowadays on efficiency (outsourcing is one of its methods of getting a job done), and the paternalistic Organization of yesteryear is all but extinct.
Time is nonlinear; in some ways we may have moved on from the group way described in this book but in other ways it is still very much alive. And the central dilemma of the individual versus the collective will always be with us. For this reason, as well as the amazingly lucid prose and keen observations, this is a true classic.
Written in the 1950s, this book is a classic study of American middle class conformity. Whyte describes the organization man—his aspirations, his training, his workplace and his residence of choice—the suburbs. Whyte’s journalist background is evident—the book reads well, with the exception of the first section, a theoretical reflection on individualism and conformity.
A good book detailing the rising middle class during the 1950's. Interesting comments made about them at the time sounds remarkably similar to the same comments being made about millennials. (Not saving money, not working as hard as the previous generation, care only about life and not enough about work, etc.) Very detailed studies regarding social circles and cliques as well. A worthwhile read.
This book is pretty amazing, and worth reading on several levels. Most of all, reading it more than 50 years after it was written exposes big changes in social expectations over just a few generations.I wrote a longer review here:http://planningpool.com/2010/07/book-...
A little dry in places, but it got much better as it went along. It's fascinating to read Whyte's concern about unmanageable mortgages and revolving credit (in the days before credit cards) ... the more things change, etc.
pedagogical to learn how the society wanted the masses to think
Not supprising that this book is not mentioned in business school. It makes me wonder whether "Business School" is still an appropriate title for these organisations.
I read this many years ago, before I started summarizing my thoughts about books after I finished them. But I have good memories of this one.
Amazing to see what corporate life was like in the 1950s, and how it's changed so much that this book is basically a historical document.
