https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/361120.Stormqueen_
As the girl grows older, it becomes apparent that she has rather unique powers; but whether those powers are a gift or a curse remains to be seen.Stormqueen (I refuse to follow the ridiculous punctuation of the actual title) is my second book in the Darkover series, after Darkover Landfall.
It is very different, and set on a Darkover which is basically a fantasy world, untouched by the Terrans, by science and by space travel.
A space fantasy (in this sense referring to something in the grey area between fantasy and science fiction) is rarely a huge success, and this setting is not particularly impressive.
At one point they're described as vibrant, having many sons, which is important when it seems like the Darkovan nobility has a 50% mortality rate (if not higher) in adolescence due to inbreeding and threshold sickness.This is the height of laran power, when long-range telepathic contact was routine even outside the Towers, and when the Towers themselves charged laran batteries that let aircars fly and power lights and elevators in the Comyn's castles, when matrix-surfaced roads and matrix-constructed buildings dot the land, when noble children are taught enough of laran that they can telekinetically lift themselves to flight with the air of gliders, and when the matrix technicians of Tramontana Tower speak casually of working with a twenty-fifth level Matrix.
Consider the premise: we have people of variable genetic fitness (already you're in trouble, since there's very little genetic variation among humans in general, but especially here, where the founder population was very small).
Maybe it IS for the 600 to 'make reply' and 'question why' rather than 'do AND die' (not 'or'), whether clingfire from aircars enters the picture, or not.As for the idea that children as old as eleven have no empathy or mature decisionmaking powers, I think this must be promulgated by people who don't remember BEING 11.
Maybe it's like wisdom teeth--in some people it develops late--or not at all.
On ju lugu maagiast, kui tegelased suudavad mõtte jõul välke suunata ja maake kaevandada üksteisega rääkida ning vajadusel kinnigi hoida või tappa.
Kus on nii tavaline, et lisaks seaduslikule naisele, kes kindlasti maagia vormi olulisi geene kannab, on mehel veel peotäis armukesi, kes teda vähemasti sohilastega kindlustavad, kui seaduslikega kitsaks läheb.Äärmiselt meeldiv lugu.
Nii ma selle viimase lehekülje läbi lugesingi - sain teada, kes olulistest tegelastest ellu jääb, kes mitte ning selle teadmise pealt oli lugu palju meeldivam lugeda (ma omatahtsi oleksin vist väga pettunud, sest mulle kõige olulisem tegelane...
I didn't remember so much about this story I read some eons ago ;) It was good reading it again. In this book we are in age of chaos, where horrible wars are fighted using terrible weapons, made mostly using the matrix powers and laran. I love how traditional are Darkover people. It's true that the Towers are working against their people and this breeding program is horrible.
It has been many ages since I last read this little gem. Darkover history, tragedy, and politics draw you into a deep story that helps the reader understand the mysterious world. Definitely a must read for lovers of Darkover.
*cries in a corner*I new Lys wouldn't recommend a series that doesn't hurt.
La trama, per quanto mi riguarda, è più semplice di quelle piene di inganni e alleanze della nuova Darkover, ma permette di seguire meglio i personaggi e le atmosfere di questa Darkover, più libera, non ancora regolata da leggi rigide e precise.
Dei personaggi non voglio dire molto perché non voglio fare spoiler e perché, lo ammetto, non mi sono ancora ripresa da quel finale.
Li ho trovati meno complessi ma forse più delineati di quelli de L'erede, come se la loro introspezione fosse più semplice da capire.
Shrug. Same Darkover story, different setting. I could write the plot out on the back of a cocktail napkin, and then MZB does her usual trick of filling up the extra 300 pages with navel lint.I have such a hard time writing Darkover reviews, because I hit the fourth sentence and there's nothing more to say. I read these with the hope of there being redeeming features, and then nada. Boring. At this point I think I'm artificially inflating these by a star when there's NOT an egregious instance of sexism every other page.
A decent fantasy story with likable characters.
However, nothing too special.
There was few I actively liked or disliked, so I won't have much to say and might forget it fast, but it did entertain me.
I liked the world it was set in, the characters and how their problems were presented.
I disliked that it dragged at times and the difference in how some things in the world are described by characters vs how it really seemed to me.
I think it was a good read, though, but I don't think it has enough outstanding qualities to remember it by.
Time will tell.
È il primo libro dell'autrice che leggo: la trama è abbastanza semplice, cosa che hanno notato altri lettori che già conoscevano Darkover.
Quest'ultima, in effetti, compare solo oltre la metà del libro.
Sono rimasta affascinata dall'idea del Potere mentale, qualcosa con cui nasci, ma che devi sempre controllare, perché in fondo solo minimamente dipende da te.
Mi ha reso moooolto interessata al mondo di Darkover anche la "presentazione" della storia sommaria dei vari regni e delle varie epoche.
I personaggi sono come normali essere umani, non si avverte in nessuno di loro la divisione tra bene e male.
Questo è un altro punto a favore della Bradley.
I love everything about Darkover!!! This is a second reading and I still love them all. Am reading everything on the Planet about "the Planet!!!
Segundo livro da MZB e segundo livro da cronologia Darkover.Se o primeiro entusiasmou-me a continuar a ler a série, o segundo foi um balde de água fria.Embora seja os dois livros considerados stand-alone estava a espera de uma maior relação entre eles.A estória de A Rainha das Tormentas decorre no planeta Darkover mil anos após aterragem dos colonos.
Obviamente que a personagem que é título da obra não poderá morrer logo no início ou no meio da obra, quanto muito morreria no fim (hide spoiler)].Fraca ligação com o livro anterior: Se a estória decorre após centena de gerações dos colonos aterrarem no planeta, não deveria haver ou na sua história ou na sua mitologia qualquer referência a tal?
Sono sincero, mi aspettavo di più. Lo stile narrativo di Zimmer Bradley mi piace, scivola e descrive bene, non è pesante né prolisso. La storia tuttavia - fatto salvo il finale e alcuni passaggi - è un po' piatta e troppo intrisa dei dubbi e delle paure di Allart, che spesso si ritrova ad essere un protagonista passivo dell'intera vicenda. Ho comunque apprezzato la varietà e le personalità dei personaggi di contorno e dei co-protagonisti.
this book is tough because Marion Zimmer Bradley saw into the whole human being...And the outcome is very likely...
Didn’t really care too much about the characters.
Good story, complex characters. I like the Darkover world already, so it's no surprise that i enjoyed this book. Recommended to fantasy fans.
I enjoyed this one most of the Darkover books I have read and it provided nice background to the other books. I wish I had read this one first.
One of the better Darkover novels, in my opinion. Characters were fairly distinct and pretty easy to follow. Story moved along well.
What makes the two novels in The Ages of Chaos stand out is the sacrifices that are being made in order to bred and keep laran (Darkovan psi powers) within the ruling families.In the first novel of the omnibus, Stormqueen!, the story centers around a young woman (a pre-teen more accurately), Dorilys, with a special type of laran to call forth lightning and storms.
How could there not be, these two stories are set in the 'Ages of Chaos' after all.
Rereading Darkover. Not the best of the series but definitely not the worst either.
Part of this can be seen in the literary genres she plays with to indicate the differences between this past society and the later Darkovan society during the days of contact and struggle with the Terran Empire: this work mixes elements of science fiction (advanced technology, genetic manipulation and experimentation) with elements of gothic fiction (particularly the setting of the majority of the action at Castle Aldaran, the concern over patrimony and inheritance, the "curse" laid on Mikhail Aldaran, the scandalous and incestuous marriage between half-siblings, and the "secrets" of the heritage of some of the central characters' psychic abilities).
Ol' Marion is probably now my third favorite fantasy write of all time now.Set in the "Ages of Chaos," a time in Darkover history before the Hasturs came to power (the most noble family on Darkover, who are at the heart of much political intrigue in the novel), set long before the Terrans re-established contact, the novel is set in the remote mountains of the Hellers, mostly, but not completely, on the estate of the Aldaraans.
Donal, her older brother, is not the biological son of Aldaraan but has been raised as a son.The other character is Allart Hastur, who has tried to retreat from the world because of what his telepathic powers have made him.
This was the second Darkover Novel I read and I really liked it. Interesting characters and plot was not predictable.
I would classify these books as "science fantasy" considering the setting of the series is of a lost colony of Earth on the planet Darkover, who have lost their technology thus reverting themselves back to the stone age.
But what separates this from fantasy is the discovery of "Laran"--the planet mutates the humans, gifting them with specific Psionics.
It's the psionics which replace what could be considered "magic" in a fantasy setting.
The reason she is kept this way is due to the fact she cannot control the power, it could drive her insane & therefore bring about Darkover's destruction.Do not expect a storybook ending, you will not find one here.
This is one of the exceptions, set before the time of rediscovery, in the "Age of Chaos." The Darkover series as a whole features strong female characters, but it has enough swashbuckling adventure to draw the male of the species, and indeed this series was recommended to me by a guy (when we were in high school!)This book is centered on one of the more memorable female characters in the series, Dorilys Aldaran, the "stormqueen" who has power over the weather.
Early chronologically in the timeline of the series, and with no recurring characters, it makes a fine introduction to a beguiling world.
Both are awesome & I'm eager for Thunderlord!2009 Review of Stormqueen!: It takes place during the Age of Chaos, when the Seven Domains of Darkover are ruled as independent, warring fiefs engaged in a psychic arms race, developing deadly weapons through the use of their psionics and genetically engineering their children to produce ever-stronger mental powers.
One of the casualties of this breeding program is Dorilys, the Stormqueen of the title.
Sweet-natured, yet extremely willful and spoiled, she is denied nothing--not only because she is Heir to the Aldaran Domain, but because she is able to enforce her demands with psychically-generated lightning bolts.
E' stato il primo libro che ho letto di Marion Zimmer Bradley e...
dopo questo non sono più riuscita a fermarmi.Ero al mare quando comprai questo libro ed è stato subito amore a prima vista.
tanto che sembra di essere assieme ai protagonisti e di vivere con loro l'avventura.Gli stessi personaggi poi sono ben caratterizzati e presentano delle sfaccettature molto interessanti...
personalmente ho adorato la figura di Dorilys, così potente ma allo stesso tempo così fragile che si ritrova, suo malgrado, costretta a fronteggiare delle situazioni più grandi di lei.Lo stile della Bradley poi è talmente accattivante che, almeno personalmente, non smetterei mai di leggere.
A story with a clear line to it, no jumping about from scene to scene, no confusion.
This book did not feel like a confusing jumble as some of the other (earlier) Darkover books have, it felt like a clear story with a beginning and an end, a story I enjoyed reading and felt a part of.
Although the story of Darkover intrigues me and I am determined to read all the books, I am glad that in this book I was able to get to know the characters, to really get into the story and feel that I was part of the action.
Ma pole kindel, kas panna sellele raamatule 3 või 4 tärni, aga jäin nelja juurde imeliste mälestuste tõttu kunagi ammu (ilmselt Taanis) loetud Avaloni ududest, tänu millele tekitab Marion Zimmer Bradley nimi helge ja eriliselt positiivse tunde.
Iseenesest hea süžee ja paljutõotav maailm.
Tõenäoliselt võtan millalgi kätte ja tutvun algusega ka (raamatus oli üsna ilmne, et kuskil peab olema inimkosmonautidest algus ning põgus pilk Goodreadsi andis sellele ka kinnituse).
Kokkuvõttes OK raamat ning väga ahvatlev maailm.
Konkreetsetest peategelastest on kahjuks üsna suva (eriti nimikangelanna - autor võib kinnitada ükskõik kui palju kordi, et ta on niiiiiiiiii veetlev ja hea, ent kui ta näitab teda ainult negatiivselt käitumas, siis sorry, ei veena).
This is the book that got me hooked on Marion Zimmer Bradley's (MZB) writing.
When I got it, saw the original artwork I thought...
why not, give it a go.Within a few days I finished the book and started collecting other books by her.You can easily familiarize yourself with the characters, the world they live in and their interactions with others.
