https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107328.What_Happened_to_the_Corbetts
I sure am glad the apocalyptic future imagined by the author in "On The Beach" didn't come to pass, but "The Ordeal" of the Corbetts (the alternative title of the present novel) is a lucid and often chillingly accurate analysis of the future impact heavy and indisciminate bombing will have on infrastructure, governance, the health and the mental stabilty of the population.Nevil Shute the engineer is looking at technical aspects of type of aircraft, flight paths, navigation instruments, likely damage to buildings and utilities, best actions to take to protect your home and your family.
I can not believe that no one thought to collect rainwater!
I'm a big fan of the WWII genre, but until I read this book (not strictly a WWII story as the events are fictional - perhaps apocryphal is a better word) I hadn't realised how cosily plucky little Blighty's fight has been portrayed.
Nevil Shute is the author to go to when you just need a good story. He is like an old friend.
I love Shute but I found this one difficult to get on with, largely because I found the Corbetts rather awful people.
I know it's 1938, but they're horrible about their several servants when these souls, understandably, decide to put their own families' needs first, and Peter Corbett actively dislikes looking after his own children; it's presented as a noble sacrifice if he spends an hour with them so his wife can pop out.
Meanwhile it's just fine for him to put off enlisting because he wants to look after his family.
Some of it Shute gets wrong, but some of it is horribly right.
This particular book of Shute’s always slightly confuses me – am I supposed to be reading a story about how a bunch of uptight conservatives are forced to truly confront how much they love their family?
Or am I supposed to be reading a story about how an already-loving family is torn apart by a war and forced to get really tough and cold?
Shute seems to be writing both stories at once, in how Mr and Mrs Corbett give up their nanny and begin to actually look after their children themselves and love them, but then also at the end completely resign themselves to no longer being together as a family.
In the US, this book is titled Ordeal. It is set in Brighton, England and describes what happens to a town once the relentless bombing begins. However, it was written before the war actually started and so fictional. However, by the time the book was published, the bombing had started. The book was held back and he included a disclaimer that it was fictional and not based on what was actually happening in England.
The bomber will always get through - unusually prescient while the narrative is most realistic but fast-paced too..
They had a small sailing yacht which they kept at Hamble and which they very much enjoyed periodic day sailing to the Isle of Wight and other ports in the south of England.In the middle of one very cloudy and rainy night they began to hear far off loud noises which steadily grew louder.
Peter soon came to learn that the bombers from an unnamed enemy, but obviously Germany, would only come to do their dirty work on cloudy, rainy nights during which they would fly and drop their bombs within the clouds without aiming other than having a general idea of location just before they dropped into the clouds.
Peter and Jean decided they would be better off on their small yacht.
His characters, the Corbett family of the title - a comfortable middle class unit living in Southampton on the English south coast - are riven with the kind of snobberies and sense of entitlement that Shute normally mocks gently, such that they are unusually unsympathetic.
This kind of omission is perhaps the novel's greatest weakness: there's no reason why Shute's protagonists *should* be likeable (in fact, their unlikeability may be the point - everyone suffers in war), but the absence of material detail lets down both the book itself and Its author's normal fastidious approach to his storytelling.
I was kind of surprised that there could be a lawyer in England who did n't know the country was at war until the bombs started falling. This is the story of that lawyer's family, the Corbetts, from the night the bombs started falling until he was able to spirit his family away to the safety of Canada and join in the war effort himself.
Grim forecast Early Shute and thus a bit dated. Bombing civilians seems to stiffen resolve, but they still do it. It doesn’t look like anyone learned any of the lessons that Shute hoped they would - neither the bombing nor the preparedness.
I've read several Shute novels from his early period -- Ruined City (aka Kindling in the U.S.), Landfall, An Old Captivity -- and I have to say Ordeal (What Happened to the Corbetts in the U.K.) is the worst of the lot.I was ready to give it 4 stars through the first third or so of the book, which was tense and engrossing, with the descriptions of the air raids and bombings (incidentally described in this book before they actually happened in WWII!), but as the book went on, I found myself caring less and less, and I ended up skimming the last 50 pages or so.
I'd recommend it for true Shute devotees only, or for those with a particular interest in the effects of the air raids on Britain in WWII.
This book was widely distributed during its 1939 publication under the title What Happened to the Corbetts?.
Peter Corbett is a solicitor who lives with his wife Joan and their three young children near Southampton, England in the later 1930’s.
They are finally able to get to the yacht but soon the bombing begins in that area also.
Peter wants to join the military to fight for his country but first of all wants to see that his wife and children are safe by sending them somehow to live with his sister’s family in Canada.This is an exciting story with lots of difficulties which must be overcome.
The Corbetts are a normal English family—father, mother, two small children and a baby, living in a small house with a lovely garden—who find themselves scuttling to their garage for safety against a surprise bomb raid on their city.
After the bomb raids continue, but only on cloudy nights, they decide to escape for safety to their small yacht, with hopes of eventually making it to safety in Canada.
The suddenness of the bomb raids pretty much destroys normal modes of communication—newspapers and radios—so no one much knows what's going on.
People are pretty much forced to live day by day, making out as best they can.
I have read many Nevil Shute books in the past (i.e. MANY years ago) and recognized him then as a talented writer.
I doubt I have read this before.
It is one of his earlier books, written before he moved to Australia from the U.K. It was titled 'Ordeal' in the US, but originally 'What Happened to the Corbetts?'.
I think Ordeal really covers the story, which was written pre-World War 2 (1938), but it gives some view of what life could have been like - and it was written as a preview for those who believed war was imminent.
Really interesting in the context - it was written before WW2...
Another fine novel by Mr. Shute.
As a consequence, a young husband and wife, and their three small children, are driven from their comfortable home in Southampton into chaotic conditions where they have inadequate food, shelter and health provisions.
Fortunately, they own a boat; small, but large enough for them to seek temporary shelter in.
Things go from bad to worse, but as in so many of Mr. Shute's books, the plucky family rises to the occasion.
In any case, there are trials aplenty for the young family, and the book ends with the war still ahead.
The beginning of the book is very chilling, about a nation caught completely unprepared by vicious bombing raids that come every cloudy night.
The government is useless, unable to stop the bombardment, and of no use to the helpless citizens trying to survive epidemics and drastic food shortages on their own.But the central part of a Nevil Shute book is always a story about one or more ordinary people dealing with extraordinary circumstances in a way that emphasizes their humanity and essential goodness.
And so it proved with this book.
On the other hand I appreciated the author didn't emotionally blackmail readers.
It may be, because the book was written by male author, the book is more concetrating on daily and tedious routine - making dinner, putting children to bed, lack of milk and water, and no description of deeper feelings.I liked the part when the Corbetts took the milk by power, what are the decent but desperate people capable of doing.Still, I read the book at once, Shute wrote it well and short.
If I hadn't been given the book I would not have bother to look for it.
Written in 1939, it's one of his first novels, a precursor of his wonderful later works.
It's interesting too in that it anticipates the Blitz, which didn't occur until a year after its publication.Ordeal, like such later novels as Pastoral and Trustee from the Tool Room, makes heroes of humble middle class Brits and makes a great story out of a simple plot.
As with the later novels, Ordeal is dated: Shute manages to tell his story in simple, grammatical English.
There isn't any sex or violence (even though it is a war story).
Yet the story is gripping.
I am a big Nevil Shute fan.
I read this book with the title "Ordeal." Following a natural disaster flood in my own town, this book was extra vivid as a family has to deal with the crisis of bombs dropping randomly and frequently on their city.
In his other books, the children are better developed characters and women tend to be highly capable, usually brilliant.
This wife was quite insipid worrying about her lipstick, etc yet she is fully capable of managing the ship.Despite any flaws, this story was riveting and Nevil Shute again proves his storytelling abilities.
This book is a marvelous example of fiction that can influence public policy.
Shute wrote it before the London blitz and, as he says in an author's note at the end, "If this book shows the New World something of our difficulties, and makes the academic problems real to those people in my country who are working for our safety, then I shall feel that I have done a job worth doing." It is also a good story that, I feel, shows the very believable psychological stages that people experiencing sustained trauma must go through.
This is the story of the Corbett family at the beginning of WWII.
It begins the first night of bombing in Southampton before war has been declared.
Peter, his wife, and children are in their home and finally go out to the garage to sleep as the bombing gets closer.
They finally decide to sail to the Isle of Wight, but are not allowed to land because they came from the area with sickness.
Peter would like to get his family to Canada to stay with his sister, but this is not easy to do.

A compelling, if at times stylistically dated, piece of what was then near-future speculative fiction. The characters have a habit of being obligingly middle class (even those who have got there by aspiration), especially as the daily staff flee to their families early in the story leaving our protagonists to cope by themselves. It was interesting spotting what Shute got right, and where he was some way off the mark, but overall he did an excellent work of prediction barring the one error he acknowledged having made in the introduction to the library's edition. Well worth a read.
I can't believe I came across a Nevil Shute book I hadn't read. Perhaps not one of his best, but still worth five stars.Why do I love these old stories so much? The writing is plain, the action the opposite of dramatic, the characters ordinary.That's just it.Nevil Shute's novels are stories about ordinary people living in extraordinary times. The characters and the situations seem so real, I sometimes feel disoriented when I have to put the book aside for a moment. Suspension of disbelief. I can't think of any other author who does it better.
As “On the Beach” is a prophetic novel about life at the end of World War III, “Ordeal” is prophetic of the bombing of England by Germany during World War II.
It was written in 1939, and originally titled, “What Happened to the Corbetts.” Peter Corbett, a lawyer, lived a middle-class life in Southampton, England with his wife Joan, and children Phyllis, John, and a baby sister.
They awoke one night when their house was bombed, and this is the story of the chaos of their lives and of the bombed city, as they tried to escape to a safer place.
aka "What Happened to the Corbetts". This synopsis directly from goodreads:[close:] Published two months before World War II began for England but with much foresight about what was to come, Shute imagines the effect of the sudden start of bombing on Southampton and the disruptions in a family's normal life and then the local infrastructure. Eerily foreshadowing his later book "On the Beach," which went farther and imagined the slow disintegration and death following a nuclear war as the effects of global nuclear fallout are gradually felt in Australia. [close:]
I have the US edition of this book, where it was published as "The Ordeal." An interesting and prescient consideration of the possible consequences of bombing on civilian populations. It was published two months before WWII, and serves as a fascinating timepiece - obviously written quickly but well, and serving to some extent as propaganda in the hope that US readers would have sympathy for the Brits and support the US government's attmpts to help.
