https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36329818-legendary
I'm so excited, and for anyone else who might be excited too, I thought it would be fun to share my Legendary Pinterest Board: https://www.pinterest.com/stephaniega...Another update: Lots of readers have been asking me if Legendary is the last book in the Caraval series or if there will be more, and I'm thrilled to share that there will be another book: FINALE.
I'm so excited to write this book, and if you're interested you can add it to your Goodreads shelf right now: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3...Update March 19, 2018: More exciting news!
Hope to see some of you there: https://www.bustle.com/p/caraval-lege...
And now I don't know what to do with myself aside from sit here and try and form some semblance of a review.Friends, if you think you know everything about Caraval, you'd be wrong.I'm going to keep this review spoiler free, especially as we're a little ways away from the release, but I'll just say this took a verrrry unexpected turn and I couldn't be more thrilled.
Someone wants his true identity unmasked, and if Tella doesn't discover him and hand him over, she'll face losing everything, including her own life.I knew I would like Tella, especially after what she did in the first book, but I didn't expect to fall so head-over-heels for this girl.
I remember when I received my copy of it, I took tons of pictures and kept staring at it like I was drunk with love.That one was fast-paced and action-packed and so very surprising as well as enchanting.
Legendary is none of those things.It’s slow-paced, character-driven, mostly predictable and basically magic-less.
She doesn’t know how to play the game at all.
And here I feel compelled to ask my invisible friend: ‘‘What game?
It’s sad, really.Oh and am I the only one who finds all of the male characters/love interests to have ridiculously similar personalities?
I was ready to love this book.
A world where everything seems not exactly undone but unmoored, completely released from the ruts of logic, where the rules become flexible, blurring the edges in a way that highlights that place where stories and real life convene, where magic contains truth and the world as it appears is false, where the future seems to hold too many possibilities to bear and just about anything can happen.
Ok someone has to do this gif:Anywayssss I just read this book in one sitting with a stupid grin on my face because the way everything unfolds is absolutely BRILLIANT. I won't spoil anything here, though!! Just a few random thoughts...The main character in this sequel is Scarlett's sister Tella, whom I absolutely love. She has so much agency that it's just amazing to watch the story take shape: "Tella might have been many things, but she was far from silly or worthless or whatever labels people
Ok someone has to do this gif:Anywayssss I just read this book in one sitting with a stupid grin on my face because the way everything unfolds is absolutely BRILLIANT.
Just a few random thoughts...The main character in this sequel is Scarlett's sister Tella, whom I absolutely love.
Tella needs to win Caraval to see her mother again, but will also come face-to-face with Legend if she wins.
I thought we might possibly maaaaaybe have an advantage going into this story since we're familiar with Caraval from the previous book.
For most of this book I was sitting there like "EVERYONE IS LEGEND.
ARC provided by Flatiron in exchange for an honest review.1.) Caraval ★★★★  “But the best villains are the ones you secretly like, and my nana always said Legend was the villain in Caraval.”  I know that Caraval was a super polarizing read last year when it released, but I fell on the side of totally loving. From the game, to the mystery, to the lyrical writing, to the compelling characters, I couldn’t get enough. I devoured it in two sittings and never wanted to stop the reading experience. And
I know that Caraval was a super polarizing read last year when it released, but I fell on the side of totally loving.
And forget everything you think you learned in Caraval, because this trilogy takes a completely new approach, with completely new twists and turns, in Legendary.
And Tella ends up trying to win Caraval for this new stranger, for her mother, for her heart, for her life, and for Legend himself.
This book also had a bit more romance than Caraval, but I was completely living for it.
I don’t think I can deal with another solo Scarlett book after her actions in Legendary.
Coupled with gorgeous writing that makes you feel like you, too, get to experience Caraval?!10000% all my affections are YOURS, little book, I'm ready to be destroyed for the finale.
I freaking love this.+ It's narrated by Tella this time.Thank you, lifesaver, because holy heck, Tella is AWESOME.
And I also loved how Tella is caught between playing games and actually fiercely caring about things.
The whole book she's like: "I dO NOT LOVE" while, ya know, furiously loving so so many people.YOU'RE GOING TO GET HURT, TELLA, AND I'LL CRY WITH YOU.+ The sisters!!
Like Tella just really wants to find her long-lost-mother.
"The air tasted like wonder. Like candied butterfly wings caught in sugared spiderwebs, and drunken peaches coated in luck." This game is a dream wrapped in nightmares, yet to some it is a nightmare wrapped in a dream, it is deceptive, it is beautiful, it is addictive and yet it is the one thing that can break your mind before it breaks your heart, or maybe even both at the very same moment without you ever realising it. It is hatred and love and happiness and sorrow. There are more players in
I like that she will finds bits of happiness and satisfaction whenever she can, however dire the circumstances, because time may be endless but life is not.I love the descriptions of everything throughout the book.
The characters in this book are mind blowing in their own complexity and the nature of Caraval will make you question whether you really know the person or just the role they’re playing.I would have liked a more definitive ending but the open end of the book maintains the mysterious charm of Caraval and left me entranced because the endless possibilities of where this story could go is mesmerising.
Oh. My. Gosh. This book is perfection! Stephanie, you have truly outdone yourself! The writing, the twists, the story, the characters - I loved it all and already want to reread this gem, I can't stop thinking about it!
okay, not to be dramatic but i would bargain my soul to every one of the fates to be able to live in a world where caraval games existed.there is nothing quite like the amazement and sensational wonder of these books.
i love stories that make me second guess what i know and think, and this captivated me from the first pages (it picks up immediately where the first book ends).
this was truly an experience and cant wait to see how the story ends in the next book!
This book was so much fun! People said it was even better than Caraval and I have to agree with that! I really loved Tella as a main character. This book expanded the world of Caraval so much, and expanded the character of Legend a lot too. Once I started I couldn’t put it down; I ended up finishing it in a few short hours. Loved it!
“Every good story needs a villain.But the best villains are the ones you secretly like.”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐First things first: I didn’t really like Caraval. Sure the world was great and the story was pretty cool, but I hated Scarlett and I didn’t really like Julian. In this book everything is different. In the last Caraval game Tella was the price you could win by playing Caraval. But now she’s a player herself and she’s not only playing to win. She’s playing for her own life, the life of her mother
Sure the world was great and the story was pretty cool, but I hated Scarlett and I didn’t really like Julian.
It had twists and turns and literally the whole time I didn’t know who to trust and what would be the right choice for Tella.
Relationships ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ “I think I’d like you even if you were the villain.”  Oh man, the whole time I wasn’t really sure if I could choose a love interest if I was Tella.
I liked that the author not only improved in the parts of characters and relationships, she also improved her writing, the story and in some way the world building.
First off, there’s another book, right?
so it’s a bit tricky for me here because if there’s another book, then this one was hella great, but if this is the last book then I’m just too flustered to think!I’m just going to go ahead and say that the world that Stephanie Garber has created is freaking cool and amazing.
I thought Tella was a decent character, although I did like Scarlett more.As with Julian, I really liked Dante.
Stephanie can write some great males!
I love the mystery behind the curtains, because I never know what's going to be revealed to me.
I think I know!
ok but seriously I need this in my life ASAP
Legendary follows Tella, who enters Caraval in order to save her and Scarlett's mother Paloma, who has been missing for years.
Still, I'm glad that Julian and Scarlett are part of this book, and an important part.I liked the Dante/Tella romance, but there wasn't nearly enough.
It seemed forced and contrived, like the author desperately needed a good reason to bring back Caraval for a second time in a short period (like The Hunger Games), and so she grasped at straws and came up with Scarlett and Tella's missing mother.
I've tried to read this for a good month; however, I am in the worst slump ever and I have negative motivation to pick this up and the only books I am able to read are NA.
I will get back to this one when I manage to kick the slump away.
Buddy read with my fav Marami ♥UPDATE 29/09/2017: HELLO FRIENDS WE HAVE A TITLE, COVER AND A RELEASE DATE!
ANYWAY, I like the title!
AND THE COVER HOLY SHIT IT'S BEAUTIFUL!02/02/2017: OH MY GOD WHY DON'T WE HAVE A RELEASE DATE FOR THIS?!?!?!!>!>???WHYWHYwHY
I can't help but enjoy being swept away by the magic that is Legend!I can't give away anything for fear of spoilers but I'll be honest and say that I actually loved this second book even more than the first one.
I really enjoyed the story being told from Tella's perspective.
I liked watching her grow throughout the book but my favorite aspect was definitely her dynamic with Dante - the chemistry, the tension, the raw emotion between them was perfect!
The world of Caraval is almost like a favorite character unto itself.
I can't wait to see what magic Garber conjures up for book 3!
I'm between 4 and 4.5 stars here. Legendary , the second book in Stephanie Garber's Caraval series, takes you on a kaleidoscopic ride full of dazzling imagery, incredible magic, and so many twists and turns, you wonder what will come with each subsequent page. It's a little dizzying, a little mesmerizing, and immensely memorable.Before I get fully into the review, I must say that all I kept thinking about when reading this book was: "Legend truly did deserve the name he'd given himself. Tella wo
Tella wondered if Legend's games ever ended, or if his world was an endless maze of fantasy and reality that left those caught inside it forever suspended somewhere between the two."Caraval is a magical performance which usually occurs once a year.
All the while, Tella isn't sure what is real and what is merely part of the game."She liked the thrill that came with taking risks.
It was the closest she ever came to holding real power."This is a fascinating series of books, and Legendary is a worthy sequel to Garber's first book, Caraval (see my review).
Caraval was my top book of 2017 and I was so excited to get my greedy hands on Legendary.I will be 100% honest here: I wasn’t completely sold on Tella being the one who tells the story.
Don’t get me wrong, I liked Tella, but I thought she was extremely flighty and I didn’t know how it would go.
Like Tella says in the story, everyone underestimates her and Stephanie really puts her to the test in this story.
There are several threads in this story and it did take me a bit to settle into it, but I was captivated right from the beginning.
So I really should have known better.I was super excited for Legendary mainly because it is told from Tella's POV and I'm borderline in love with her.
At the end of Caraval we find out that Tella may have gotten herself in over her head with bargains and debts she owes to not only Legend but a mysterious friend as well.
The only way to unveil Legend's identity is to win Caraval, so Tella goes through the typical, difficult process of finding clues in the dead of night.
In other words, Caraval might not be just a game this time.Like its predecessor, Legendary is a testament to Stephanie Garber's talent for misleading her readers in the best way possible.
Just like Tella, I had a hunch that she was in cahoots with the real Legend, who was supposedly someone close to Julian.
Since Tella deceived her during the first Caraval, it was possible that Scarlett wanted to return the favor.
It's an easy read, one that almost reads itself, and while we're still left with questions, it was fun experiencing a totally different plot than the first and pondering whether the information we receive at the end is indeed true or simply left to throw us off our game until next year.Garber is clearly a talented author; her writing is easy to connect with and appealing to a wide age range, and while I didn't love Legendary as much as I did the previous novel, I'm still looking forward to Finale in 2019.
Stephanie Garber has a story-telling gift and ya’ll are missing out if you haven’t already read Caraval.As someone who loved Caraval, I was nervous to start Legendary, because often times I’m disappointed by the sequel in a series—well, folks, that wasn’t the case here!
But honestly, I love both Scarlett and Tella; so I’m fine reading in either of their perspectives.
He’s dark and gritty and a walking secret; I can’t wait to learn more about him in book three!Surprisingly, Jacks is a close second, after Dante (of course).
In the books, Caraval is described in a way, that as soon as it starts, you can literally feel the magic around you, and this is how I felt every time I opened up this book and started reading it.
I just got lost and engulfed in the story and I felt like I could almost feel the magic coming out of the book.
Also the expansion of the mythology / magic of the world was so enchanting and I just want to learn even more, which I'm sure we will in the next book hopefully!
Tella's character seemed to have more depth and seemed more developed than Scarlet in the first book.
This review and other reviews can be found at The Book PrescriptionA Buddy read with This reading Machine“If you can convince yourself it’s true, you can convince anyone.”🌟 Caraval was a book that I didn’t enjoy very much despite having many interesting story elements, The main problem in Caraval was it being choppy and all over the place, there were many twists and events that took place in book 1.

I am so fucking disappointed. The magic is gone and the ending was bullshit.Is it meant to be open ended? Is there a third book exploring Legend and the mother further? I need answers?????Everything was ether too rushed or too bland. It didn’t grasp me like the first one. Tella had so much potential as a female protagonist but she was done wrong instead.Scarlett hardly appeared at all and when she did it was for no reason at all.Nope. Biggest disappointment of 2018 so far for me
Legendary takes all the magic and the dark and the deadly and the thorned gossamer of wild invention laid over every page of Caraval and cranks it up to ELEVEN.
Garber expands her world massively: if Caraval is the place where the pebble dropped in, Legendary is all the rings rippling outward, encompassing new terrains, new mythologies, the secret histories of characters old and new.
It's darker than its predecessor.
It's a little sadder.
Its magic weighs heavier, and there's no more fooling ourselves: Caraval isn't just a game.
It never was.I'm so jealous of anyone who still gets to read this book for the first time.
And I’m going to bitch in a conflicted manner just like I did with Caraval AND THEN STILL ADD FINALE TO MY TBR LIST.This book was a rollercoaster of boredom.
The thing is, I did actually like the book.
It’s like I’m under a spell.
It’s just frustrating when an author builds and builds to this big reveal (and I’m not even necessarily talking about Legend, though multiple things about him can be included) and then the moment of truth is explained in one giant half-page exhale.
Rating  - 5 stars!I didn't think Stephanie Garber could do better than Caraval but trust me when I say she exceeded my expectations once again. I expected it to be a good sequel, but nope, it was absolutely  breathtaking.  please, please give me the next book right now????full review to come!!!
