https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25300956-royal-assassin
Like the previous book, Royal Assassin is still totally a character-driven book with a very slow pacing; sometimes even dragging to me who’s a fan of slow-paced books and I’m pretty sure any readers who're looking for tons of actions in their read will most likely be disappointed with this one.
The appearance of Nighteyes completely made Fitz a more intriguing character to read.
It goes without saying that this wolf is the highlight of the book for me.Picture: FitzChivalry Farseer & Nighteyes by chazillahRoyal Assassin was almost a 5 stars read for me, it had all the potential.
And so today I think to myself that if ever the crown does come to rest on my brow, it will be in a most unworthy place.” ”For a moment I shared his bafflement that anyone could wish harm on these people, and shared, too, his fierce determination that not one more life should be lost to the Red-Ships.”Burrich:”I don’t envy you, Fitz.
No, King Shrewds life had a really bad end and no matter what he did, he didn’t deserve to die like that.
All the stars for Nighteyes as I am the wolf loverI know I don't need to be listening to first time books on audio.
I mean I was trying to figure out if Nighteyes was the only reason I even enjoyed the book or what.
I DON'T KNOW!
I'm so confused on how I feel about the book.
I'm still going to read the last book in this in this trilogy on audio and see how it goes.
If Nighteyes gets killed I'm telling you now that I'm done with the rest of the books in this world.
King Shrewd, however, decides to train him as an assassin from an early age, and so begins young Fitz' journey into adulthood and the intrigues of the royal court.
I gave that one a one-star rating on the basis of its incredible -in the true sense of the word- plot, but I think "Royal Assassin" is the first book I've read that not only has a plot that doesn't hold water, of any kind, but it is also way too depressing going about it.
But the foundation provided by the first installment created an attachment to Fitz's well-being that makes his suffering meaningful for character growth.Yes, the setting is still largely at Buckkeep.
I also want to mention that the addition of a character named Nighteyes is a huge plus & provides some extraordinary complexity to Fitz in ways I can't explain without spoiling parts of the book!Whereas before I didn't feel myself fully connecting to the story, this time around I was totally engaged & on the edge of my seat waiting to see what would happen.
4.75⭐The things we go through for books...The mental strain, people!RTC
4.75⭐️The things we go through for books...The mental strain, people!RTC
A touch of Romance in the chaosSomehow amongst his vast duties to his King, which include being his personal assassin and a reservoir of magical strength for his son, Fitz manages to find romance.
Fitz simply isn’t ready for the relationship he pursues, which, of course, he doesn’t really know.
Life certainly isn’t easy for Fitz.
A king that could (should?) have been  A moment presents itself in this novel; it is a moment that would have changed Fitz’s life forever; it is a moment that would have changed the six duchies, and the nature of this story, forever if Fitz has given in to temptation.
This book didn’t just exceeded my expectations, it also solidified this series as one of my favorites and I have yet to read the conclusion and the following trilogies.We continue with the Fitz’s story following the events from Assassin’s Apprentice; Fitz is recovering from those events in the Mountain Kingdom where he contemplates his future and after having a strong vision of a person he cares about, he decides to go back to Buckkeep and to continue serving King Shrewd and his son, King-in-Waiting, Prince Verity.Upon his return he is immediately entangled in perilous events taking place inside and outside of the court.
Proposed alternate title: FitzChivalry Farseer and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good Very Bad Day (Year, Life, etc.)On one hand, this feels like a three-star read: for an epic fantasy book (and series), not much happens, (certainly not much that feels very epic), there’s a paucity of truly intriguing villains (and no monsters), and the magic system is not particularly well defined.
Plus, as suggested by the proposed alternate title above…man, poor Fitz just gets constantly pummeled in the giggleberries by life.
And then shoves a brontosaurus up his backside without even doing him the courtesy of lubing it up.
Es war so großartig und emotional aufwühlend und einfach nur klasse! Ich bin SO gespannt auf Teil 3, Jesus Christ
Obviously I loved this book to pieces (I mean I finished the almost 700 pages in 2 days), Robin Hobb has a way of writing plot and characters that despite the slowness it just gets under your skin and you can never stop thinking about it.
I love that in a series, if it gets me obsessed then I call it a success.Plot is clearer in Royal Assassin, the villains become more fleshed out (AHH JUST THINKING ABOUT THAT ASSHOLE!), and the characters get even more depth..
Having barely survived his first real mission as a royal assassin, Fitz first vowed to renounce his oath to King Shrewd and abandon the shadowy world of intrigue completely, but his destiny eventually takes him back to the very place where his journey began, and back to the life of an assassin…Royal Assassin is more of what happened in Assassin’s Apprentice.
But Hobb is definitely moving up a few spots on my author list.
Assassin's Apprentice was a very good book.
Intriguing characters in a (seemingly)simple but interesting world with a good story.
It made me want to read more of the story of Fitz and the world of the Six Duchies.But this damn book made me HAVE to read more about Fitz and the Six Freaking Duchies.
Where Book 1 was a little slow moving as Hobb set up the characters and the overall plot, this one does not hold back.
Hobb's strength is her characters.
Everything I read a book for.
The politics is very well incorporated in the book, and it is a major factor of Fitz's story.I so much love the character development of all the characters especially the newest addition to the characters, Nighteyes, that wolf is everything.
Fitz is alone with just Nighteyes for company.
The king is sick and Regal will stop at nothing to become king, He still sees Fitz as a threat.(view spoiler)[ He almost killed him, if not that he left his body and inhibited that of his wolf, he would have died in the dungeon.
I'd heard a lot of people claiming that it contains too many pages and a lot of dull passages.
I do see where those people are coming from, but even though not every page is action-filled, I still really really enjoyed it.
In this book, I grew even more attached to Fitz as well as the heavy cast of characters that are introduced in this sequel.
I grew so attached to the characters that this is one of those books that I kind of regretted finishing.
If you liked the first book in this series, I highly recommend this one as well.
It took me long enough, but I finally finished this. Robin Hobb has her own unique writing style that makes Fitz and his story a true fantasy classic. Full review to come!
Who unlike me, wrote a coherent and thoughtful review you can read here.----------------752 pages.
And in both cases, even with the comparable page count they managed to condense a LOT of story between their covers.In this case we had 752 pages of filler.
You could have condensed the action in what?
There's a "romance" angle that I hated.Verity goes on a quest.Regal is still the bad guy.We still don't know anything about the red ships.
I will still read the next book, because I really liked the first one and I want to know what happens with the red ships.
Robin Hobb's Farseer Trilogy and rest of the The Realm of the Elderlings series are very highly rated on Goodreads scoring 4+ average rating for each individual volume.
Royal Assassin is the second book of the Farseer Trilogy and follows directly without a pause for breath from Assassin's Apprentice.
With this kind of plot-heavy adventure tale the less I reveal of the plot the better I believe.Fitz as depicted in the 2009 edition of Royal AssassinThe storyline of this series is refreshingly original in that it does not follow the standard epic quest story arc even though it does follow the development of the protagonist from childhood to adulthood.
Simply not as good as the first one.
The last third was good but the first two-thirds the only good scenes involved Nighteyes or the Fool.
While the court just went on and on without any real action.
I usually like reading a series straight through but I'd recommend not doing that with this one.
Book one and the first two-thirds of book two are just too much of the same.
The last third redeemed it for me and I will read the last book since without giving anything away it will have to be different.
Perfect in every way! The best thing I've read all year. For those waiting for Winds of Winter, this is what you should be reading. Fitz, the main character is one of the best in all fantasy. The writing is excellent and Bradbury-esque in places without being over long. No sentence is wasted. The world is intriguing and speaks of greater things to come and what a bloomin' ending!!! Bravo Hobb. You've earned yourself a lifetime fan with this one.
To me, even after having finished the book, I feel that Verity is selfish.
I hope Verity is going to improve in book 3.
Then something about the ending:(view spoiler)[At the beginning of this review I talked about that dreaded feeling, and how Robin Hobb actually does play that card, and surprises you with it.About 10 chapters from the ending, I started to get this bad, bad feeling that Fitz was going to end up in jail, killed, or excommunicated.
This is a slower paced book, focusing on Fitz and Kettricken who i start to admire and love as a character. The vast majority is a 3.75 book, is a good book but nothing sensational. Until one gets to the last third of the book when the world is rocked, the story becomes so intense, the events unfold so quickly that one is left breathe-less for most of the chapters. An incredibly persuasive ending of the book that elevates the book to a 4 star for me!
Una palabra para este libro: Frustrante  (view spoiler)[Creo que todo el mundo y sus abuelas sabíamos que Regio terminaría por traicionar otra vez a su familia y que TODO o prácticamente todo lo malo que le sucedía a Veraz era por obra de Regio.
Realmente no le daría tan alta puntuación como al primero por no sentirse un avance real, pero los personajes de Veraz, Burrich, El Bufon y Traspie me llegaron al corazón inserte emoji de carita con ojos de corazón y no puedo evitar estar interesada con la historia.
After re-read:I think the thing I love most about Goodreads is seeing what I thought of a book shortly after having read it.
This book was heavy, but (as I said in my original review) the author gives you enough small victories that it doesn't become too hard.
On to the last book in this trilogy!
I found Royal Assassin dark and sometimes overwhelming in the dread I felt for the characters I'd come to love.
But there were enough small victories to make it un-put-downable.
At his return to Buckkeep, he is thrown into conspiracies and plots that threatens everyone in the royal family.I struggled to get into this book as it begins again quite slowly, something I found with Assassin's Apprentice.
His woe is me attitude throughout this book made him seem weak where he should have been strong.I also really did not like his love interest Molly.
I think she easily could make it up there as one of my favorite characters.I also liked the Fool, who had some great quips.
I think when you sit down and look at the details of this book like the writing, the character development, the subtle things Robin Hobb does in each chapter to really bring this story to life it is really phenomenal.
The entire problem this story is trying to tackle could have been easily avoided if one character had done one thing, but this character didn't and it really frustrates me that this kind of plot device propelled the entire 650 page book.
Overall, I still adore Robin Hobb's writing and her intricate character development, but I didn't like it as much as I enjoyed the Assassin's Apprentice.
I basically skimmed the last third waiting for something good to happen to Fitz (the main character).
The "good" guys all know who the bad guy is (Royal), yet still manages to passively ignore that he may be behind EVERY bad thing that happens thus allowing him to achieve his every evil deed.
I really enjoyed the first book, with the world Hobb created and the characters she was building, but I'm now over it.Fitz is a guy who endlessly whines about the sadness that is his life, without actually taking any action to change it.
In general, too much woe-is-my-life from Fitz.
Powerful, soul-stirring, deeply imagined, and beautifully constructed. I am flummoxed as to why Robin Hobb isn’t as celebrated as George R. R. Martin, when she has all of his skills of intricate plotting and world-building and intrigue, but in addition to that she brings a powerful sense of humanity and soulfulness, and a deeply moving appreciation of the fraught, complex, loving ties that bind people together. She is masterful.
4.5* just a tad too slow at the start but god do I love these characters.
Basically the entire book is Fitz trying to understand his place in the world and his relationships with those who he has grown close to, but also with himself.
I can honestly say I have grown to really care for Fitz and appreciate him, more so than a lot of characters that I have read previously.Now I know this has been said many times of Hobb's writing, but if there is one thing she is masterful at, it's at relationships between characters.
It's a rare thing to be able to feel such strong connections with other characters in a first person book, however the majority of the Farseer Trilogy so far, is actually focused on Fitz's relationships in regard to everything else.
