https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17333880-twisted-perfection
She may not have been experienced at relationships but she certainly wasn’t shy at going after what she wanted with Woods and I have to say it was refreshing to read her kind of character who on the one hand was like that while at the same time, really messed up inside.
And here’s what I loved about it: the main angst (at least to me) is resolved in the first half of the book, leaving the second half to be focused quite a bit on Woods and Della sorting their relationship out, which I really enjoyed.
I was happy to see the book focused on Woods and Della.The ending had me flipping pages like crazy.
"I'll be whatever she needs me to be. I can't walk away from her; I tried. I'm hooked."  ~ WoodsTwisted Perfection was again, an Abbi Glines story that I was unable to put down. It was a fun, sexy and light story that I VERY much enjoyed reading. I'd even go so far as to say that I loved it more than Rush and Blaire's story; mainly because I loved the main characters much, much more...Woods --Della --Della Sloane hasn't always had an easy life. Growing up with a mother who barely led her leave
It did end in a way I think will have some major consequences for the rest of the story and that made me very curious what will happen next, but I certainly wouldn't let the ending keep you from giving this first part of the series a try.I already know I'll be looking forward to reading much more about Della and Woods in the next part of this enticing series!!!"I don't want to destroy you," she whispered.
Being with his fiancee is difficult and their marriage is only going to make him miserable.All I can think is being with you again.Woods doesnt allow his father enforce him marry that shallow girl and he makes the right decision.He doesnt care anymore about the money or the bussiness .He wants to be happy and the only person that makes him happy is Della.Della and Woods make the perfect couple.Sadly no relationship is easy.They have to deal with many things.All in all , I loved this book .
~~~~OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG Wood's Story!!! Eeeeeeeepppp!!~April 23rd, luv, COME ASAP.
I will admit it... I am an Abbi Glines fan girl. She is one of my favorite YA/NA authors. Everything of hers is amazing, so I wasn’t surprised with how much I loved this... It was by far her hottest book to date! And Woods is just too hot to handle!!!!  We all know and love Woods from the ‘Too Far’ series, now lets meet Della... Della had a very strange and difficult childhood. Her mother had a lot of mental issues, and she was kept indoors a lot. She lived a very sheltered life, and still has
We all know and love Woods from the ‘Too Far’ series, now lets meet Della...
Della and Woods go out to dinner that night.
Woods is hot, he seems nice, and he wants her.
I’d wanted to know what good sex was.
He wants her, but he knows he should stay away.
Della isn’t happy about the situation, but she tries to just work for Woods and be his friend.
He has feelings for Della and Woods kind of loses it.
Woods doesn’t care about any of that.
Della and Woods were great together.
Before Woods I didn’t know what I was living for.
Nor did I expect the characters to win me over the way they did, just for that I added an extra star to the rating!‘I was Della Sloane and I was on a road trip to find myself.’Della has spent her whole life dealing with her mothers mental instability.
Woods knew he wanted Della he just needed to realize that he was in love and would move MOUNTAINS for her.
And thank goodness it did not take the whole book for this realization to take place.*wipes sweat from forehead in relief* I felt and knew exactly why Woods wanted the V.P. job; not only was it his birth right but he bust his butt to get it.
"In my search to find myself, I'd found so much more. I knew now why I wanted to live. I understood love. I had found it." WOODS, WOODS, WOODS, WOODS, WOODS, WOODS, WOODS, WOODS!!I have been crushing on Woods since Fallen Too Far series began. I was one of a handful of readers that was cheering for Blaire to go for Mr. Country Club. Thank you Abbi Glines for granting my wish and giving Woods Kerrington his own book!Woods Kerrington did not disappoint he was 5 Plus stars sexy with his southern d
Thank you Abbi Glines for granting my wish and giving Woods Kerrington his own book!Woods Kerrington did not disappoint he was 5 Plus stars sexy with his southern drawl, alpha and protective manner!Della Sloane has lived and still is haunted by her horrific childhood.
Della is just passing through and Woods is gearing up to propose to a woman he doesn’t love to merge the family’s businesses.
When things fall apart for her there, Tripp offers Della a place to stay and a job in his hometown…Rosemary, Florida!!
The book is not a standalone, but I have no doubt that Woods and Della can handle anything together.
♦She was trapped by her past.He was quarantined by his future.♦And this is what happened when the two crossed paths. With memories that aren’t aloud to play outside, Della only has one goal: to finally live her life and see the world. So she quickly puts her past in her rear-view mirror and hits the road on her way to nowhere and everywhere.And it’s at a gas station where she meets him.  ♦ “Della. I like that name. It fits you. It’s sexy and mysterious.”“Thank you, but now you’re one up on me.
With memories that aren’t aloud to play outside, Della only has one goal: to finally live her life and see the world.
For the next couple of months when she was off experiencing life and experiencing sunburned smiles and doorslam heartbreaks… that one night of uninhibited freedom meant more to her than he’d ever know.But she was about to find out that she was as unforgettable as he was.Because now she’s back at Rosemary Beach and is walking in for a job interview with Mr. Kerrington, where she runs right smack into Woods… Kerrington.Her new boss.
BUT i was really disappointed, i looked forward to read this, i always thought woods is a sexy motherfucker and i thought his story would be GREAT.But it was meh,kind of okay!I read every book that Abbi Glines had ever wrote, i know her style, i know how she operates.-Boy/girl point of view √ -Unbelievably hot sexy steamy scenes √ -obstacles and unproved parents and others drama √ -boy gets the girl √-FUCKING AWESOME COVER √And that's okay, i like her style.
Well, at the beginning I was super excited. But then Della opened her mouth and I thought-  Then Woods started annoying me too and I thought-  And I thought could it be? Am I about to be disappointed by an Abbi Glines book?!  I'm sorry I doubted you Abbi. .At the half way point, boy did this book make a come back!!!!     But the ending... Will I be back for book 2? Absofuckenlutely! Why? Woods ♥ Btw, if I had to chose between Woods and Rush. Woods- hands down! :)))
She's all I'm ever going to want.” -Woods and GrantFirstly: Secondly: For those of you that know me, will know that I'm probably Abbi's number one fan...amongst all her other number one fans, so when Donna said we'd be taking part in this blog tour and that I'd get to read Twisted Perfection 2 weeks before release, I did a happy dance.
I've loved all of Abbi's books, and all my expectations were once again fulfilled with Twisted Perfection It's such a wonderful story.
“Loosing you would be the only thing that could destroy me”. I love Abbi Glines, she is a great person! But i seem to ALWAYS rate her books 3 stars. They are 'OK'.I hoped Twisted Perfection would be different. No such luck.The only exception ,i think, was Fallen Too Far and ExistenceEvery one of my friends LOVED this book! I thought i would too. Should have known better. A 5 star read? A 4 star read? More likely. Della is on a road trip to find herself, her best friend has just got married, giv
In that moment and throughout the book.She was naive and acted a bit like a slut.
I really liked him but thought he was a bit of a coward.
At times i was like screaming at him to tell his dad to kindly fuck off and let him live his life the way he wants to.
But i really liked where the book was going and occasionally couldn't put it down.
It's always like that with Abbi Glines books - she writes beautifully and has good ideas, knows what she's doing.
Twisted Perfection was a good read.
Know what the slogan of the books by Abbi Glines should be?"Condoms? Who needs condoms? Pulling out works just fine."
4.5 hot stars!This book made me tingle in all the right places! Abbi Glines has a gift. She makes the story flow and come alive. She doesn't tell me, she  makes me feel it.  I read it with a goofy smile on my face! Della is a broken, strong heroine. She has lived through horrors and she lives with the fear that she has inherited her mother's mental illness. She is giving, caring, beautiful and strong. She is on a road trip to learn how to live. She challenges herself and the world.  "I am in awe
4.5 hot stars!This book made me tingle in all the right places!
makes me feel it.
Woods is the hottie I fell in love with in Fallen too Far. He is sex on a stick.
I loved that we got Wood's perspective in every other chapter!
Woods friends are one hot bunch!
And they all love Della.
She's hot and completely worth the ass kicking." 
Abbi Glines write sexual chemistry like no one else.
I have had a lot of misses with NA and it's not my genre – but when I read Abbi Glines I forget it and think I must have been mistaken.
4 Woods-a-licious StarsWhat I liked about this book:1.
Woods' protectiveness/possessiveness/caring ways for Della3.
Della- she may have some demons that still haunt her, but she's not a whiny, typical floozy that cares only about Woods money and what he can do for her.
This starts the push and need for Woods to change his life around and stop being someone else's puppet.
Woods was a man POSSESSED and  DESPERATE to have Della.
Can they weather that storm when faced to deal with it?Examples of Woods needing to claim/possess Della and his desperation:"She was curled up on the bed in a small ball.
Nothing." "I love you, Della.
4 ALL OUT WOODS STARS.I liked this story LOTS, but I didn't quite get the 5 star feeling.
This author is all about her characters, storyline and her books are like Pringles (once you pop, you just cant stop)!
So it came to no surprise to me that I Loved this character, that's not to say he was delivered without fault - OH NO, there were times I wanted to jump right in my kindle to have a few choice words!
I thought there was a Fabulous connection between these two loveables.This book was a little more gritty and saddening than Glines usual style but I liked it.
Another let down by Abbi Glines. I have to say that this book also was a disappointment, with a few shiny ups. But sadly, it bored me more often then not. I ended up DNF it sadly.Woods has always been the character that stood out for me, bright and shiny, so I really had high hopes for this book. Im sad to say I was let down. Especially Della was a dull and boring character, she just seemed flat to me. I felt no connection to her at all. Her story was, Im sure, supposed to be heartbreaking but i
Another let down by Abbi Glines.
I ended up DNF it sadly.Woods has always been the character that stood out for me, bright and shiny, so I really had high hopes for this book.
I´m sad to say I was let down.
Turned out in this he was just another horn dog and a daddy's doormat :(Abbi Glines´s books are the kinds you read one afternoon in the sun, or in between really great books.
I was very impressed with the first book by her, I read, Never Too Far. It has gone downhill from there.
Sorry Abbi...
This Review was Posted at Angie's Dreamy Reads HUGE giveaway posted right now for an iPad mini and two ebook copies of Twisted Perfection by Abbi Glines.
This giveaway is INTERNATIONAL 4 STARS I was really looking forward to Twisted Perfection by Abbi Glines.
Abbi writes books that are absolutely addicting.
Once you’ve read an Abbi Glines book you’ll be hooked for life.
She wants to learn how to LIVE!Woods is working hard to take over the family business.
I can’t wait to see what happens in the next book Simple Perfection.
Woods and Della are amazing together.
Della was innocent and sweet...I even wanted to help her.
I loved how much Woods took care of her.
Woods and Della have some extremely steamy scenes.
It was a bit disappointing and I would have liked some interaction between Blaire and Woods...that would have been really good.I really enjoyed Braden and Della's relationship.
And let's just say that although I'm okay with the ending, AG better not pull a "hospital" Rush with Woods!♥ I had to look up the lyrics of Lady Antebellum's Just A Kiss and they are amazing.
They fit Woods and Della so well...
"You are mine. Do you hear me? You are mine, Della Sloane. I will take care of you. Nothing is taking you away from me. Nothing." Twisted Perfection made lured from commencing to end.The complexities of Della & Woods spark had me panting one very small and in shreds the next.  Meet Della Sloane  She has earth coloured surprises and her past is surely hidden.Della had a naivety and an innocence, she was one tough chick. That remarked, she does labour with memories of her beyond and whereas s
Just appreciate that he is NOT the widespread kind, he cares about money, and he work his breath out to make it by himself.He doesn’t rely on any person in command that is so important to the story.♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥Woods wants Della, but because he has his intellectual set on taking through the family business,
They approached together at a gas stattion, had a very tepid one night time stand and not ever glimpsed each other afresh until Della comes back in settlement and commences engaged in work for Woods.
Every dame time."♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥Overall, I absolutely loved Woods and Della's story.
It is more than just a Love Story♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥♫♥There will be another book for Woods and Della!!!
don't get me wrong I still love Woods to pieces and I think that is the biggest problem, I expected so much.
I thought I was so gonna love this book before I read it but then I ended up skipping some parts (unlike FTF I've been hanging on to everyword)..I wanted more for Woods and I just simply don't like Della, I tried I swear I did..SORRY!
not even that interested for the sequel but I'll read cause I just can't drop Woods...hmmmmmm..Abbi :(I hate having to feel this way about an AG book..never thought it would happen..:(see how excited I was before?WOODS!
4 Get Wooed by Woods ~ stars !!!
I love Woods ❤❤However, his book did not WAIT FOR IT ......
WAIT FOR IT ......Waaaaaaaaahhhhhhh!!!!!!!Not the Woods who's Team I joined in Fallen too Far and then had me questioning my fealty/loyalty to Team Rush in Never too Far. That's the Woods I wanted !
❤ ME WANT MORE LOVE.
ME WANT MORE WOODS !!!!!!!❤My ovaries were satisfied but my WORLD required some Woods Wreckage !!!!
❤❤❤❤ ~ 4 ~ was Worth the Wait til Wednesday (When everyone else dove in on him on Monday ) Wish Woods rocked my World Just a little bit more and PS .
OHMYGOSH THAT WAS KICKASS AWESOME!!I really really LOVED this one..
I didn't think it was possible to get better than Rush and Blaire from the Too Far series..
but Woods and Della definitly stole my heart!!!
Della is all kinds of emotionally messed up and Woods wants to fix her..
Damn he was so freaking SEXY!!
Can't wait till the next book!!
This one did end in a cliffhanger but it wasnt about them as a couple..
Woods and Della were in a good place at the end of this one so don't let the cliffy scare you off.
READ IT!!!
Boy did you surpass my wildest hopes with your possesive, sexy, and dirty-talkin ways.The story starts off with a bang...and I do mean a bangIt starts hot and doesn't let off until the very end.
Woods is trying to escape his own demons, and meeting Della offers him a necessary distraction.I don't want to reveal too much of what happens next, since it will take away from the story, but it kept me up reading all night.Certain events take place and Della finds herself meeting Woods again.
I loved the way that Woods and Della's relationship develops.
**5 Fluffy Candy Stars** Ms. Glines is my gal when I need something fun and addicting to read.
I fell in love with Woods in her other series: Too Far .
Twisted Perfection has a bunch of great music in it.
*********************************************************Rosemary Beach series is interconnected.
Each series can be read as a standalone.TOO FAR (Rush & Blaire): {#1} Fallen Too Far | {#2} Never Too Far | {#3} Forever Too FarPERFECTION (Woods & Della):{#1} Twisted Perfection | {#2} Simple Perfection CHANCE (Grant & Harlow):{#1} Take a Chance | {#2} One More ChanceSERIES:
WOODS STORY!!!!-------------------------------------I really liked it, I just hope that the guilt doesn't kill Woods and his relationship with DellaI'm so not patiently waiting for book two to come out!Write as fast as you can Abbie!!
WOOD´S STORY!!!!-------------------------------------I really liked it, I just hope that the guilt doesn't kill Woods and his relationship with DellaI'm so not patiently waiting for book two to come out!Write as fast as you can Abbie!!
Cuarto y último libro de Abbi Glines que leo. Sólo no.  No  al estúpido insta-lust e insta-love.  No  al intento de crear más drama que una telenovela.  No  a la mediocre escritura. Y  No  al romance barato.
I enjoyed this a whole bunch more then the Rush/Blaire saga, in a large part because Woods consistently put Delilah first.
It felt like Abbi Glines actually upped the steam factor again with this one.
The ending was the kind of cliffhanger I like.
It made me curious about what is in store next for Delilah and woods, but didn't make me want to cry/throw things.
Looking forward to the rest of their story.(view spoiler)[ the whole confirmation of the Grant/Nan pairing had me vomiting a little in my mouth.
I am so not looking forward to that book  (hide spoiler)]
Ahhhhhhhhhhh, Woods story!!!!!!
I am so happy right now!!!!!!
I was so happy when I found out that there is going to be a book about Woods.
I loved him in Never Too Far and Fallen Too Far. I liked him so much better than Rush already then.
Now after reading his story I can only state yet again that I love him.
However, at the same time, Dellas struggle with the memories of her past and Woods struggle with his own inner conflicts made the story heartbreaking and inspirational.
I loved every damn part of this book.
4.5 Woods Loving StarsI think this was my favorite Abbi Glines book so far. I've definitely had a love/hate relationship with her books in the past but this series is FABULOUS! After finishing this, my first thought was how to go about cloning Woods several times over and releasing them into society so the women of the world could experience his hotness first hand. Someone with better science skills than me needs to get on that! Pronto!
