https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/214948.Bitter_Lemons_of_Cyprus
People in Bitter Lemons are always slipping off for a glass of the stuff on some terrace or another.
In the first third, helped immeasurably by his knowledge of Greek, Durrell is getting settled in, and it's a sort of Cypriot Under a Tuscan Sun. The chapter in which he buys a house aided by the wonderfully cunning Turk Sabri is alone worth the price of admission.
http://www.nytimes.com/2000/05/10/wor...Durrell teaches fourth form English and later accepts a job as press advisor with the colonial administration.
Bitter Lemons is written in that wonderful mid-century English style that, to my mind, is unequaled.
He makes appeals directly to Greeks to honour their tradition of hospitality, then he hires a Turkish man (whom he describes as a reptile) to dissemble and shout at Greeks until they sell him a home with some magical balcony for practically nothing.Then, in keeping with brief references in his little brother's book, he picks a high point in his house to slowly eat grapes and crack the whip on Greek workmen who may be lingering to tell the stories he loves so much.But that is only a tiny hint of what's to come.Although he claims to hate politics, he takes a job as an Information Minister with the British government of Cyprus.
This is not a political book, but simply a somewhat impressionistic study of the moods and atmospheres of Cyprus during the troubled years 1953-56 or to be more precise during the armed struggled against the British.Lawrence Durrell, 1957A British perspective of the 1950's in CyprusI've chosen to write in English, because English is a window to the world, like it or not.His descriptions of the Pentadaktylos mountains are eerie and romantic (with romantic I don't mean romantic as in St. Valentine's and shite like that but in the sense of aesthetic experience with feelings of awe, and apprehension while experiencing the sublimity of nature).
And this is quite telling, because I am from Turkey and when it comes to fascism in text, being objected to horrible instances of it since I was quite young, I lamentably know my stuff.I still haven’t finished the book, I don’t believe I can muster enough patience at any time soon to do so, but here are some examples for your immediate pleasure:“What does amaze one however is that the Turks, perhaps through lack of a definite cultural pattern of their own, or of one worth imposing on the Greeks, left them freedom of religion, language and even local government- and indeed vested in them a large part of the Imperial administration: a recognition perhaps of the enviable qualities of restlessness and imagination which they themselves lacked.” (location 1812) (Gasp!
Travel can be one of the most rewarding forms of introspection.” ( p.15, first paragraph of the book)then a few pages later, this gem:“We had become, with the approach of night, once more aware of loneliness and time-- those two companions without whom no journey can yield us anything.” (p.19)I don't agree that artists are born not made, but do love the end of the first quote from "and the best of them..." as I think Durrell captures one of the essences of why travel is so captivating-- it is shuttling back and forth from the outward journey to the inward journey of discovery and back again, that keeps each so endlessly captivating.
I read this many years ago and loved it. Rereading it has just confirmed how brilliant Lawrence Durrell is. If you want to hear all about Cyprus, well this is the book for you. All said and done!But then I love all of his works...
It was a wonderful experience reading this book.
How often does one read a memoir, written by a poet, set in a tumultuous period among a beautiful backdrop of landscape and people?
The very first paragraph of the book is so masterfully written that I was drawn in from the start and didn't want to put it down.
Durrell can move the reader through various emotions, given the political instability that turns to terrorism among the peaceful villages of the island full of beautiful and kind people, and in contrast the humorous characters and experiences he encounters during his time in Cyprus.The only thing missing is an epilogue telling of his return to Cyprus - but after some searching I have found more evidence that he never returned, and none suggesting he did.
In Cyprus during the nationalist violence - a move to become part of Greece - he ended up leaving the island after becoming a target of assassination attempts as political upheaval continued in his wake.
But despite the fact that Durrell lived there for a few years, as a teacher and then as an employee of the British government, I never got the sense that he attempted to become part of the community - the seeming lack of connection and the sometimes detached writing felt heavy and "ploddy".
Although I learned more about Cyprus and its history, which is why I gave the book three stars.
I haven't become a fan of Durrell's writing with this book.
A description of his time spent in Cyprus during "Enosis", Greek Cypriots demand for union with mainland Greece, this made fascinating reading.
"As a conservative, I fully understand, namely; 'If you have an Empire, you just can't give away bits of it as soon as asked.' he states at one point.
He is clearly a colonialist of the higher order and yes he loved the locals but to me there was a fair bit of paternalism that could be at times condescending.
In the end though it is a very fine read, at times wonderfully descriptive and very interesting.
It introduced me to the cultural clash between Greeks and Turks.
(Surprisingly, I have since visited both Greece and Turkey and was struck with how similar their cultures are on the surface.)This book also awakened me to the difficulty of an outside power (in Crypus' case, the United Kingdom) trying to impose peace on a population who would really rather fight among themselves--or, at least, have animosity.
Walking, using public transportation, eating and shopping along side the natives gives one a very different perspective than blasting through on a bus, boat, train or plane full of fellow tourists sipping prepared experiences, meals and tours of a locality.)A good read.
But he also wrote a number of books that can be found in the "Travel" section of your favorite bookstore, as well as a body of poetry.Bitter Lemons is an account of Durrell's life on Cyprus in the early 1950's, while the Mediterranean island was still a British crown colony.
He notes, in addition, the strong opposition to Enosis by the island's significant Turkish minority population -- a fault line between the ethnic Greeks and Turks that continues to this day.And so, the second half of the book becomes increasingly political, as he observes the rise in influence of EOKA, a local terrorist organization whose tactics and goals were similar to those of the IRA in Northern Ireland.
The scorn ranges from downright contempt for what he deems to be the backwardness Turkish Cypriots to a mix of love, admiration and exasperation aimed at both his (mainly) Greek hosts on Cyprus and the crumbling Empire he represents.By the end of the book, the whole setup sadly descends into a tragic farce of contradictions.
Cyprus was rapidly ending its relationship with the British empire and terrorism and nationalism was taking hold.
So interesting to read this on the heels of Alexandra Fuller's Cocktail Hour Under the Tree of Forgetfulness.
In Durrell's book is a Tree of Idleness in the center of the Square where men also go to forget and while away the hours.
Durrell takes one last day trip with an island friend (a school master) to pick flowers by the sea.
tastes of lemons, of lemon blossom." A beautifully written book that has some echoes in our world today and I look forward to reading more from Durrell.
Bitter Lemons is a passionate plea for "enosis" (i.e. the unity of Greece and Cyprus) written in the 1950s when Turkish and Greek Cypriots were at war.
Lawrence Durrell loved Western Civilization with a passion and believed fervently that the great Greek genius of classical era was still alive in the 20 th century.
Durrell was of the opinion that the jurisdiction of the Colonial Office should have been restricted to Asian and African countries which in his view had backward civilizations.
Bitter Lemons is an eloquent manifesto for the importance of Western civilization.
OK, he's a priggish imperialist and anyone who commits phrases to print like "you can't go giving away bits of an empire willy nilly" sort of deserves whatever happens to his property holdings...But write with a lovely command of locale, sentiment and atmosphere. All of which amount to either an interesting retelling of an era or, at least, a lovely evocation of a place. I mean, I'm baffled by Justine, too, but some of its prose is pretty.
If you want to dig deep into what has led to modern Cyprus, this is a vividly personal account of those events that culminated in the division of the country, not to mention the incredible sadness Durrell felt when politics finally silenced the cries of 'kopiaste' from the Cypriot villagers he had come to regard with such affection.P.S.So delighted to hear this programme on BBC Radio 4 about Lawrence Durrell's place in the literary canon:http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01phktg
Very nicely written though sad account of an idyllic place and its descent to becoming a war zone.I don't know much about Cyprus other than what I read here. I am sure there are other "angles of vision" as he calls them, meaning both what different groups thought at the time, and what people might think now looking back. Still it was pleasant both to get his impressions of village life, but also his thoughts on the issues as he saw them.
Every Cypriot should read this book despite the very British approach to the writing it talks of the beautiful island that I know and love so eloquently that it honestly made me emotional at times. With all the tough times in Cyprus's economy at the moment this is a hopeful message to give about Cypriot resilience!
Fragments of history touched with the colours of wine, tar, ochre, blood, fire-opal and ripening grain.' There is such a sense of place from the very beginning, in fact, that one feels as though one is with Durrell, experiencing both his journey, and Cyprus, along with him.Bitter Lemons of Cyprus is many things; as its blurb states, 'it is a document at once personal, poetic and subtly political - a masterly combination of travelogue, memoir and treatise.' The extended essays here are immediately engaging, and so much attention is devoted to small details throughout.
His description of the dissenting Cypriot Greeks was interesting: “No Greek can sit still without fidgeting, tapping a foot or a pencil, jerking a knee, or making popping noises with his tongue.” Politics aside, I love the “other” part of the story, which depicts Durrell buying a home in a small village and refurbishing it, as well as his travels around the island.
I love Durrell’s style of writing and for that reason, I cannot hold his personal views against him.
Thus, I heartily recommend this very descriptive account, which is really mostly memoir, of Lawrence Durell’s experience before and during the 1950s Cypriot uprising.
Русская аннотация обманчива: на 70% книга состоит из политики и хронике борьбы за независимость Кипра. Пейзажи-забавные сюжеты-колоритные персонажи занимают меньше половины текста.
He loves classical Greek thought, and certain modern iterations, such as a reverence for the poems of Seferis and Cavafy.
But at the end of the day, he's a repulsive reactionary, a proud imperialist, and even though he's smart enough to see all the contradictions of the colonial regime in Cyprus -- the deliberate underdevelopment, the dimwitted little-Englander officials, the way repressive measures invariably give credibility to the anticolonial fighters, an honest respect for the idealism of the Cypriot youth who want freedom -- he still can't escape the notion that an abstract empire is the best steward of his much-adored classical civilization, and like his mentor T.S. Eliot, he far preferred myth to reality.Is it worth reading?
Durrell is not only a fine prose stylist, but an empathetic reporter as well, even when that empathy gets in the way of his worldview.
But despite my distaste for Durrell's political stance, it is a beautiful and at times heartbreaking book.
The Hodja stood watching me from his balcony with his cat in his arms - a patch of vivid black like a raven's wing.In the end Durrell is forced to leave, leave that pretty little house, leave the villagers, once his friends, who are now unable to look him in the eye because now he is the enemy for what he represents.
And Durrell's oldest friend on the island, a schoolmaster, a kind old man, is gunned down by men wearing masks.
He recounts his time living in Cyprus when the locals — who usually come across in his writing as childlike marvels, unsophisticated and charmingly quaint — chafed under and then violently opposed foreign (British) rule.
The Mediterranean locale is revealed with clarity and not obscured by overdone adjectives or the other pitfalls that come with infusing poetry into more elaborate prose.
The portraits of village life, which come across as an elaboration of the natural Mediterranean setting, are also quite good.The author of this book died several years ago and as such no longer needs stars from any of us; good thing, because I can only begrudge him three.
Reading Race of Scorpions, which is set largely in Cyprus, reminded me that I had a copy of Lawrence Durrell's book about the time he spent living in Cyprus between 1953 and 1956 (handily shelved next to the Dorothy Dunnett).
Still, I hung on to it, and I thought I'd give it another go.There are some beautiful descriptive passages which made me long to see Cyprus for myself, but I didn't much like Durrell as he characterises himself in his own book; too much British Imperial superiority and humorous anecdotes about the comical Cypriot peasants he encounters in his quest to buy and refurbish a house and in his work as a teacher at the Gymnasium in Nicosia, along with a fair amount of name-dropping about the visits he receives from the literati (Rose Macauley, Freya Stark, Patrick Leigh Fermor, to name but a few of many).
A beautifully written literary book with great insight into the passion of CyprusI downloaded this book to help me with my research for a historical fiction novel I am currently working on.
I know the country and the warm kind hospitality of its people.
The history surrounding EOKA has been a minefield and this book and the account it portrays is real, from the mouths and hearts of real people.
I absolutely loved reading it and enjoyed the language and descriptions.
In some places I was a bit lost - going back to the 1700s and 1800s but otherwise well worth reading and most informative.
A terrific discussion in our book club on this. I expected an "Under the Tuscan Sun," and I suppose I got a bit of that. Beautiful images, interesting people. And the political (although Durrell says in the introduction that it's not a political book) part was extremely fascinating and encouraged me to learn more about Cyrpus' history. I just didn't care much for Durrell himself and his 'layabout' world traveler friends. I preferred the Cypriots. He was a bit insufferable.
This was a slow moving book ( until the end), about life on Cyprus in the mid 1950s, during the struggle for independence. The book is almost diary like of Durrell's stay on Cyprus. I enjoyed his writing, and the descriptions of Cyprus, but I actually wish that he had discussed what happened in Cyprus after he left.
Love it. My copy is just called "Bitter Lemons" (not "of Cyprus") and was published in 1957. Part of a trilogy, I'd put in category/ies travel & autobiography. You can almost smell the heat and the wild plat life and feel the languor. Do I imagine it or does the writing style have a certain quality that places it in the 1940s-50s? Eric Newby? loved it anyway.
A very interesting read, I've learned a lot from this book. I now understand more about what led to my father spending six months with the UN peacekeeping force there in the 1960s. It is quite a moving book. Durrell has quite a strong descriptive writing style which can be at times quite poetic.
