https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68783.Girl_Interrupted
i liked this book because i was able to relate to some of her feelings.
susana keysen may have had some problems, but overall, she was one of the sanest people there.
she was able to get to know some "interesting" people, and in seeing them, she could compare her own problems to theirs.
sorry to use my own story to describe someone else's book, but that's what made it such a good read for me.
a good book should have the ability to transfer you to that time or place, and my experiences made it so much easier for this book.
While I did enjoy this book, I don’t feel I loved it as much as I expected to.CW: borderline personality disorder, suicideI am not much of a non-fiction reader, so the format and storytelling methods of memoirs and such are unfamiliar to me, and I typically do not enjoy them as much as fiction novels.
I did believe I would enjoy Girl, Interrupted more than other non-fiction works that I’ve read because I am a big fan of the film adaptation.
Borderline Personality Disorder is rarely discussed in media, so I feel the fact that Girl, Interrupted exists and has gained widespread attention is amazing.
“Was insanity just a matter of dropping the act?”   Good question, isn't it? You may start asking yourself this after reading this book.I only spent a few months taking care of patients in psychiatric hospitals, but it made me really appreciate the nuances of Kaysen's story. It is the viewpoint of someone who had to experience questioning her sanity - the one thing most of us take for granted. "Every window in Alcatraz has a view of San Francisco." What some don't know about personality disorde
“Was insanity just a matter of dropping the act?” 
You may start asking yourself this after reading this book.I only spent a few months taking care of patients in psychiatric hospitals, but it made me really appreciate the nuances of Kaysen's story.
Some of borderline personality disorder symptoms include implusivity, uncertaintly about one's identity, rapid changes in interests and values, thinking in black-or-white terms, unstable or turbulent emotions, chaotic relationships, fear of being abandoned, and feelings of emptiness and boredom.
The scary question then becomes - what separates "normal" from "crazy"?
The same question seems to be troubling Kaysen.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/  “People ask, how did you get in there? What they really want to know is if they are likely to end up in there as well. I can’t answer the real question. All I can tell them is, it’s easy.” Boy was it ever easy for Susanna Kaysen to end up in a psychiatric hospital. Now, Susanna was not “normal” per se. She randomly obsessed about things as bizarre as whether or not she actually had bones in her body since she couldn’t see them and wa
Boy was it ever easy for Susanna Kaysen to end up in a psychiatric hospital.
But in the 1960s the form of help provided to young girls like Susanna was a long-term stay in the local looney bin where the Thorazine flowed like water and electric shock therapy was a sure-fire cure for crazy.
Although compact and a very fast read, Girl Interrupted is a haunting story that I won’t soon forget and will easily go down as one of the best memoirs I’ve ever read.
“I think many people kill themselves simply to stop the debate about whether they will or they won’t.” 
I’m sort of at a loss for how to describe this book and the emotions it provoked within me. I guess the best word I could use is “unsettled”, but probably not for the reason you would imagine. This quote might shed some light on what I mean: “The less likely (a) terrible thing is to happen, the less frightening it is to look at or imagine. A person who doesn’t talk to herself or stare into nothingness is therefore more alarming than a person who does. Someone who acts “normal” raises the uncomfo
Descending blindly into madness, or being fully aware of your own dilemma and finding yourself helpless to prevent it?
I think the reason that so many people find this tale so haunting is that while reading it, one can’t help but compare themselves to the narrator.
And that’s the very reason this book left me feeling so unnerved.
After reading about the interaction, I can’t help but wonder…WHY?
And more disturbingly…why not ME?I dare you to read this and not ask yourself the same questions.
In the morning you hear those damned birdies tweedlydee tweedlydoo to each other or some damned cats meowing but that’s not language.
Human language is a really dangerous device, it’s explosive, because not only can you talk about things that aren’t in the here and now, you can with very little effort talk about things that couldn’t possibly exist ever.
Well, it’s just nonsense, because you wouldn’t wrap up honey in a five pound note, it would gunge up the five pound note, no retailer would accept it, and anyway, an owl and a pussycat would never be able to hire a boat.
Like it’s some kind of choice.
After reading novels like One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest or The Bell Jar, one could be forgiven for feeling skeptical about the treatment for the mentally ill during the 1960's.
In 1967, after a short interview with a psychiatrist, she was admitted, (committed may be a better word), to a mental hospital in Massachusetts, the same one that treated Sylvia Plath.
Twenty five years later, after reading her hospital records, she learned she was diagnosed with "Borderline Personality Disorder".
This memoir is her recollection of the time she spent, the treatment she received, the doctors and nurses who treated her, and the other patients around her.
"'Today, you seem puzzled about something.’ Of course I was sad and puzzled, I was eighteen, it was spring, and I was behind bars.”  Kind of sheds light on the whole system of mental asylums, doesn't it? Anyway how do you know if the treatment of a mentally disordered person is working. You won't take their word for it, and if they question the institution, than you can claim (and actually genuinely believe) that you are suffering from persecution complex. That is the trouble - they have a big
You can't do anything out of proportion or rules in this world gets declared insane.
How much lonely they must feel knowing that that they are alone in the world of things they are imagining.
And some were really teenagers, discovering the not so likeable realities of the world, so one can't help wondering whether they couldn't be helped more with a good counseling and medicine rather than being locked in an asylum.I still do not agree with her complete disapproval of professional of psychologists, I think that as a field it still seems to be finding its feet (and unfortunately has started on wrong foot) - also while being a psychologist may not be the hardest thing, being a good one must be terribly difficult requiring insight into human mind, a combination or compassion and disinterestedness, patience etc.
And somewhat more dangerous things, like putting a gun in your mouth.
While Susanna Keysen composes some very poetic essays offering alternative and sometimes beautiful perspectives in her autobiography, her general tone is very, very defensive.
I don't know enough about Borderline Personality Disorder to judge - I agree that it seems women are disproportionately diagnosed with it, and a conservative environment could easily allow for any non-conformist woman to be blamed for her own marginalization and labeled insane.
However, while Keysen seems to want to be seen as simply non-conformist in an oppressive time, she was in some ways destructively so by her own admission.
She told me survival is a talent.Insanity.
For most of us the idea of being insane is scary.
The harder question is the why; why is insanity so scary?
In the quiet nectar of a cup of coffee in the morning when the fog is tumbling lazily over my brain making everything just a little less ‘real’ feeling?Is it true what they say; the more you question your own sanity the less likely you are, in fact, to be insane?
Perhaps we will never really know, certainly (even now, far removed from the dates Kaysen found herself at home in an institution) there are far more questions than answers.
The author at once seemed to be a part of me that hadn't yet been able to speak, and a complete stranger who frightened and compelled me.I've returned to it time and time again and each time have found new truths and new absurdities.
Where the movie may introduce you to interesting characters and attempt to give you a linear story, it has no way to bring you into the complex and contradictory inner world of the author.I will recommend to anyone to give it a try, because I believe what you discover in it speaks not of the book itself, but of who you as the reader are.
I'm now convinced that the publication and fantastic reception of this novel was probably a great case of timing.
However, I've got to say that if she had stayed elsewhere, or tried to publish her account now, it probably wouldn't have been received as favorably.
We're given a VERY brief description of her original interview, as well as interesting reproductions of her case files, but her rambling thoughts throughout give no impression of how she actually responded to her therapy.
I've seen more self-actualization on some Twitter ramblings than I saw in Girl, Interrupted.
Not worth the read.
3.5 StarsI've always been fascinated with mental health and when this movie came out, it was one that I watched time and time again.
I never realized it was a book, and not only that but a true account from Susanna Kaysen.
The book is short, and cuts right to the point.
The chapters are set up like thoughts or short concepts that Susanna wants to share.
The movie does a great job of sticking close to the book and I was impressed with how closely they matched.
Susanna finds herself sent to Belmont after an appointment with her Doctor.
“I was trying to explain my situation to myself. My situation was that I was in pain and nobody knew it, even I had trouble knowing it. So I told myself, over and over, You are in pain. It was the only way I could get through to myself. I was demonstrating externally and irrefutably an inward condition.” Amen to that.Look, this is a book where, if you already suffer from a mental health issue, you will get it. You will draw parallels in your own life and experiences. You will nod in agreement a
My situation was that I was in pain and nobody knew it, even I had trouble knowing it.
Amen to that.Look, this is a book where, if you already suffer from a mental health issue, you will get it.
Thanks to recent campaigns to draw awareness to mental health conditions, people these days are somewhat more receptive to the idea of others who's minds don't quite work the same way theirs do.
But, we are nowhere near where we need to be in regards to this issue.
This is a very brave story, published in an era when mental health wasn't talked about.
This book was a memoir of Susanna Kaysen's time in a mental institution and it was written in homodiegetic narration.When I first started this book I thought it would be an excellent insight into the damaged mind of a young eighteen year-old girl and I was looking forward to the intriguing thoughts of a mentally ill person.
However, I found that the book mostly focused on the author's time in the mental institution and I did not get a sense of how the illness affected herself.
I read this book around the time the movie came out.
I remember liking it, but not loving it.
I'm curious to maybe do a re-read one day.
I kind of felt like it was one of those books that got a lot of hype and didn't live up to it.
I liked the movie.
If I ever do a re-read, I'll add to this.
I don't remember much, to be honest, except that it didn't blow me away.
I bought the book and I ended up over the years donating it to a thrift store.
So, I must not have liked it that much.
An interesting look in to a subject of which I have little knowledge.Susanna Kaysen shares her experience of living in a woman's mental institution for two years during the 1960's when she was 18 years old.
I wasn't blown away by this novel- I think I just expected a little more from it.
I found the topic to be very interesting and I would love some recommendations for other books of this sort.
I would recommend to any who have an interest in psychology and the treatment of mental health issues in the 1960's.
Mental Illness is always viewed with stigma and scorn even today. The first thought that comes to our mind when we hear the term is the word "mad."However, not every person who is diagnosed with a mental illness is mad.The book follows Susanna Kaysen, who is diagnosed with borderline personality disorder when she was just 17 years old. Once hospitalized, she befriends her inmates and together we get a glimpse of their lives and struggles. Definitely, a book that everyone needs to read at least once in their lifetime.
Kaysen's memoir paints a picture of a girl whose mental health is alternately proven through vivid awareness of the world around her, and disputed by accounts of self-harm and detachment.
They come away shocked that such small acts of defiance by an obviously lucid person could have such a disproportionate response.The remaining readers believe Kaysen, although honest and aware in her storytelling, was truly ill.
But it is different from the first group, because they see their own doubts about their mental health, their own oddities and their own struggles reflected in the girls of McLean.The effect this book will have on you depends on how you define sanity.
Susanna can be incredibly insightful and descriptive when she wants to be, but she mostly seems content skidding by on the surface of things without making any effort at character development, description, or tone-setting.
If I had to assign it a colour, it would be the colour of dryer lint, or bathroom walls in that specific tone of beige that must have been manufactured in purgatory to desiccate your very soul.Perhaps this is all meant to give the reader the most realistic possible feeling of being confined in a mental institution in the 1960s: the boredom, the listlessness, the lack of a unifying theme or plot.
While there were some entertaining parts, I found the whole book strangely cold and lacking.
I could not really comprehend I what she was trying to do with this book,or who she was at all.
I felt like she was telling the stories of those around her because she didn't want to talk about her own.
Her parents and life outside the hospital are barely even mentioned, it felt to me like very defensive writing.
The only thing I can put it down to, it's that the people that love it have not read many books about mental illness.
Try " One flew over the cuckoos nest" or heck, even "Prozac nation"

Girl, Interrupted was on my TBR for a long time, and I'm glad to say I've finally gotten around to reading it.
I didn't realize it's non-fiction until recently.
It details the author's stay in a psych ward that stretched on for eighteen months during the sixties.
Pretty fascinating stuff, especially to this history lover.
I must admit I had a hard time letting myself get drawn into this book.
I'm glad I read this, and I will certainly check out the movie; but it is not a book I care to ever reread.
-This is 2 books in a row I have read about mental illness.
I don’t mean to be harsh here but I did not like this book at all.
Maybe because it was written from the point of view from a person who has mental illness.
I am not sure but for me, it was a difficult read.
This was a book about her but I find it hard to believe that her family did not have any impact on her mental state.
I can’t imagine it would follow the book too closely.
Being a big fan of the movie adaptation, I've always been curious to check out the book.
Well, now that I finished reading it, I don't feel like I've gained anything from it.
It was a very short and easy read, there wasn't anything special about the writing style, and as a whole it felt rather...
It was all too disjointed for my taste.I also had difficulty relating or emphasizing with the narrator, which is a shame when reading a memoir.
Can't say I would recommend this book.
Watch the movie instead, it has a lot more heart and soul.

This probably wasn't the best book to read while currently trying to recover from mental illness, but I honestly just felt nothing for this book. I felt like the attachment between the writer and the reader that is supposed to be there wasn't there at all. I also couldn't understand some of the scans of the documents as the writing was ineligible, at least for me.This book was such a disappointment, especially after the HUGE impact that Prozac Nation left on me.
This was a quick read but excellently written. I saw the movie years ago, which is different than the book. Also, I read this after reading I Never Promised You a Rose Garden. Bottom line is that it's not easy being an adolescent/young adult female in any day or time period. There are so many changes encountered while growing up and becoming an adult that it is very difficult to adjust to the changes and make the transition to being a successful, independent person.
For some, the removal of this dramatisation will be majorly appealing as it may feel like a truer account of Kaysen’s experience, whereas others may miss the drama the film delivers.For me personally, I preferred the film, I won’t deny I loved Jolie in the film; she was so worthy of that Best Supporting Actress Oscar!
Although, I must say I did really like how Kaysen explained her diagnosis, borderline personality disorder, and then looked for comparison between herself and the characteristics of the diagnosis.Overall, I’m happy to have finally read this memoir, and as mentioned earlier, it’s a shame I didn’t read it prior to watching the film so I had no pre-emptive notions of anything.
“Are you crazy? It’s a common phrase, I know. But it means something particular to me: the tunnels, the security screens, the plastic forks, the shimmering, ever-shifting borderline that like all boundaries beckons and asks to be crossed. I do not want to cross it again” (159).  Girl, Interrupted is a memoir regarding Susanna Kaysen and her overall journey as a medical patient in her late teens. In 1967, Susanna was an ordinary eighteen year old until she attempted to commit suicide by swallowi
Girl, Interrupted is a memoir regarding Susanna Kaysen and her overall journey as a medical patient in her late teens.
It was also interesting to find out that it was a memoir and reading it knowing all this was true and it happened to the author was very appealing.
The overall story didn’t have a very distinct plot, but I always wanted to read more and more.
I’m not the best reader and I also don’t read as much an average teenage girl should, (difficult task to engage in a book), which is why I admire this book.
