https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183102.The_Mysterious_Visitor
Trixie Belden and her best friend, Honey Wheeler, notice that a friend from school seems quite unhappy.
Trixie starts to think that maybe Uncle Monty really is an imposter.
But, the man is such an impressive emcee at the party that Trixie can't get Honey, Di or any of their friends to listen to her suspicions.
Trixie Belden & The Mysterious Visitor is the 4th book in the series and was first published in 1954.
This was my favorite book series in middle school.
Set in the 1950s the series is a bit dated, but still one of my favorites.
I recently brought home an old box of books my mom had been storing in her basement, so I'm working my way through some childhood treasures, including 4 Trixie Beldens.
Could the adult me experience whatever it was I loved so much then, 30 years later?Of the four books I have re-read for review, this one has the quintessential Trixie Belden elements.
She and her [millionaire:] friends have a "secret club" with its own language and red and white jackets.
Oh, and there are good works.
Of course there are good works.
Damn it (or as the Bob Whites might say, Gleeps!) I still want Trixie's life.
So the other teen characters come off as slightly stodgy and, in this case, dismissive of Trixie as hyper-imaginative.On the other hand, Uncle Monty is a great character--really very clever in his approach to getting the Lynches to get rid of him, and a nice mix of smarmy and funny depending on who he's talking to.
I liked that Regan had enough of a sense of humor to be amused by his claiming to be a horse expert, because that added to the pile of "evidence" that Monty was just a blowhard.This book also introduces Diana Lynch, and I like her a lot.
Yes, I know I'm too old for these books, but I still love them anyway. According to the Goodreads rating system, three stars means "I like it," and I do. The story was simple, but perfect for a quick, light read. I love that this series is much better written than many children's series and doesn't have any dating clogging up the story. Just good, clean cut adventure.
Trixie Belden stands the test of time. I wore out my sister's copies as a young girl, and re-read this one for old times sake.Trixie still manages to charm me after almost 40 years. She's more down to earth then Nancy Drew, and isn't the Mary Sue that Nancy seems to be.Flaws and all, Trixie is a delight.
I enjoyed the mystery and found it intriguing with looking for the facts and deciding when things were suspicious or coincidence. Love the Bob Whites! Trixie is spunky and I like that she was brave to speak up. Didn't like any arguing. Really suspenseful at the end and I like how that worked out.
3.5So fun
I haven't re-visited any Trixies in awhile. Since I started with them at age nine, the early ones are pretty much set in stone in my brain, I re-read them so many times. This one is full of famous lines referenced still....eyes like olive pits....if you can't blow a spot of dust off the table top, put something on top of it...If you want my CANDIED opinion... and "So, Mr. Britten, you ARE an imposter after all!" (a spoiler, but was there any doubt?!)
Good again ... I always enjoy this one.August 2013 ... another re-read, and another enjoyment. I think this was the first Trixie Belden book I read as a kid, although not the first in the series. Brings back many good memories.
My second-favorite Trixie (after MYSTERIOUS CODE) - I love the Halloween party and the dress shopping!
This is one of my favourite Trixie Beldons its full of mystery ad mayhem. It sucks you and keeps you there the whole story I am always disappointed when I get to the end of them.
I liked this series too. I'm surprised there aren't more of the Trixie Beldon books on Good Reads.
Another good mystery by Julie Campbell.
This adventure solved by Trixie Belden and the Bob-Whites was a interesting one but not one of my favorites due to lack of ,well, I don't really know.
The series follows the intrepid lives of Trixie Belden, her brothers Mart and Brian, her friend Honey Wheeler and Honey's adopted brother Jim. Together they make up the B.W.G's (Bob-Whites of the Glen).
My favourite part of this book is when they plan the Halloween party because it was a fun moment.
Campbell only wrote the first 6 books in this series before handing it over to a publishing company.
I slowly amassed the whole series as first editions (it seemed so glamourous as a kid owning precious books that were older than me!) by saving all my pocket money to buy them from the local secondhand store.
They sat in a back corner of the store, thankfully ignored by everyone else, as I slowly acquired them through pocket money and then in a mass swoop for Christmas.
What was the first book you ever went on you own to get a dictionary ? For me with two older sisters Nancy Drew was old hat ..but with a wickedly wonderful grandmother and her scrabble playing sister as my teammate , Trixie Beldon gave me the incentive to win. I can remember my first word. Pyrrhic which your system questions when I misspell it ...duh I misspell it today ...but IT IS SUCH A GREAT WORD
This book is a good mystery focused around a young woman who loves to sleuth around. Trixie's friends are a good influence on her, and help to show her the right way, while Trixie, on the other hand, is disobedient, sometimes lies, and always seems to be walking into trouble that she sees, but ignores.
Audio book for the ride with the family to and from the eclipse.
Ah, adverbs....the nectar of my youth.
In this book we get introduced to another new character: Diana Lynch.
Her family is mentioned in book 2 "The Red Trailer Mystery" but this is the first introduction we get to Diana, who becomes a Bob-White eventually.This story has quite a bit of intrigue in it.
One reason I love the Trixie series is that all the mysteries seem to be slightly different, not just in crime but also genre.
Di's uncle, whom no one has seen...ever...shows up, and right away Trixie believes he is an imposter.
The threat and tension built a lot slower this time around - until it made a break for it right at the end. Still fun, but not the strongest outing.
This is odd, of course, because they were MEANT for teen and pre-teen girls, but I was a young boy that read everything he could get his hands on and when I first stumbled on my first TRIXIE BELDON book I was instantly hooked!
Trixie is the star, or "lead" character, followed by Jim and Honey (who quickly became the love of my young life, I had a total crush on a fictional character that only existed in ink) and this brave trio was constantly getting into trouble, solving mysteries and murders; that sort of thing.
I lost all of my Trixie books years ago, lending them to friends and that sort of thing.
I think I only was able to find and read 5-6 of the books to read but I clearly remember liking her better than Nancy Drew and whatever else I was reading at the time.
I've always meant to go back and try and find the books in the series and see if my adult self still liked her and prompt my memory.
I have brought another one home from the library and will continue to read through them as a side project and trip down memory lane.
The Mystery in Arizona, which was the FIRST TB book I was ever given.
The NEW reviews show the books I now own thanks to a VERY generous friend and benefactor]."We meet Diana Lynch, schoolmate of Trixie and the gang.
But Trixie thinks he's a big fake and can't help wondering if the Lynches' newly acquired wealth has anything to do with his arrival." (Copied from the Trixie Belden Fan Website)**Not one of my favorites, but a good book.
:-)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Re-read August 31, 20133 1/2 StarsStill not one of my favorites, though you get to meet Di Lynch in this one and her family.
A childhood favorite re-visited.Is the story as good as I remember?
– Most of a day’s read.Characters?
– Memorable, several characters.Setting?
– Real world - pre internet, computers, air conditioning, and cell phones.Written approximately?
– 1948.Does the story leave questions in the readers mind?
Also, the absence of computers, cell phones, and air conditioning, particularly in homes such as the mansion.Short storyline: Trixie Belden and Honey solve the mystery of who the false Uncle Monty of friend Diana is.Notes for the reader: A great mystery!
I love the Trixie Beldon series! They are filled with exitment and adventure. there is always a new mystery popping up.
In the era of Death Eaters and Reapings, a main character who exclaims "Geepers" in all sincerity, and scandalizes the neighborhood by wearing "dungarees" to dinner is a welcome treat.
As a kid, I'd never been a huge fan of the teenage sleuthers, and I don't know that I'll seek any more of the series out.
But as a decompress from the critical articles of grad school, this book was nice treat.
I have to admit, I was more interested in this book as an artifact about teenage life.
Trixie and Honey are back at school, and notice that Trixie's old friend, Diana Lynch, is unhappy.
Honey invites her to spend the weekend at the Manor House and learn that Di is really unhappy now that her mother brother, Monty Walker, has come to live with them.
Other notable happenings: Mr. Wheeler has given the Bob-Whites cottage to Tom, the chauffeur and Celia, the housemaid.
Now the Bob-White will have to build another clubhouse.This was a fast and fun read.
4 in the series was my introduction to all that is Trixie Belden.
I loved how spirited she is, how close-knit and loving, her family is, yet she and her brothers bicker all the time, just like me and mine do.
That she hung out and played with the "neighborhood" kids and all over the area where she lived, made her feel like she could've been one of my own friends.
And what a cool friend she would've been.
I'm afraid I don't remember the details of any of the books in the series that I read (which was very many of them), but I loved them all.
This books has a thrilling ending however I think it was odd that the boys were so keen to make Di part of the club so soon.
In this book, we get to meet a classmate of Trixie and the Bob Whites', Diana "Di" Lynch.
Di started out as a regular girl next door, just like Trixie, but her family has recently become wealthy, and she is having trouble adjusting to changes in her life.True to form, Trixie and Honey befriend Di and before you know it another mystery unfolds.
Suspicious Trixie thinks he's a big fake and can't help wondering if the Lynch family money has anything to do with his arrival.The storyline in this book is similar to conflict between Jim and his uncle, but it is still a good mystery.
We will be seeing more of Di and her family in future books.
