https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/870.Fullmetal_Alchemist_Vol_1
This was great! Pumped to check out the anime(s) and more volumes of the manga soon.
It's even higher than Death Note, Vol. 1: Boredom (which is the most read manga on GR) and Fairy Tail, Vol. 01 which, until it became too repetitive, used to be my F-A-V-O-R-I-T-E manga series.
Because the characters and drawings and world-building are extraordinary.Nonetheless, the world-building in this book too wasn't bad either.
But there were too many characters that appeared and then disappeared...
Too many ''cases'' (problems) to resolve - I would prefer one but long, deep and poignant - but just the fact that there were alchemists in the storyline was something unique and I wish to discover more about them.I will continue with this series.
Compared to most of my "articulate" reviews, these will be a jumbled mess."The Two Alchemists" (二人の錬金術師 Futari no Renkinjutsushi) - containing one of the most memorable anime scenes of my childhood "If you have enough faith, you'll definitely get bigger."This is the volume where we are introduced to Alphonse and Edward - the Elric brothers.
Al gets to shine a little in this one.After reading the 4th chapter, I can't help but think that each bad guy in every chapter of this volume represents some kind of greed - and we all know that greed (and Greed) plays a huge role in this manga.
In much the same way as a webcomic artist develops over time, the art and plotting improve as the series goes on, but this first entry is the furthest thing from shabby.So anyhow, this volume.
It's really kind of amazing to look back on these first few chapters and wonder what Arakawa was thinking - I'd love to know how it is to work in manga publishing.
(I assume this can happen in manga; it's only logical.)I remember reading this for the first time and being interested but at the same time put off by the episodic style, which I expected to be the norm for the entire series.
full series review now up on my channel - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I9cDc...
I have been wanting to read this for so long and now I'm getting into it and honestly I am so hype.The story is so much fun and I already love both Edward and Alphonse.
Definitely recommend to people!
I'm excited to continue reading this manga series and then watch the anime on Netflix.
Goodbye social life!*Just a heads up that the boxset is actually still on sale so if you're interested it is currently over 50% off which is CRAZY and if you're keen you can buy it here https://www.bookdepository.com/Fullme...
Am I missing something??This series has a super high average (4.49 as I write this) and several of my friends have really enjoyed it.
The brothers were both fun characters and their loyalty to each other was enjoyable.But I wish this world had been explained a little more before they just started embarking on all these different adventures.
Not only was the large cast of side characters kind of annoying, but there didn't seem to be much of an overreaching plot.
I know lots of people love this series, but it's just not for me.
Quiero empezar diciendo que la moraleja de esta historia es nunca, Nunca, por lo que más quieras NUNCA dejes a niños sin supervisión.  Edward y Alphonse Elric  son unos niños prodigios en Alquimia, la ciencia que parece magia, por una razón, bastante comprensible y dramática, ellos van a cometer uno de los pocos tabús que existen en la alquimia, la transmutación humana, tratando de recuperar a su madre, trayendo consigo, catastróficas consecuenciasAlphonse pierde su cuerpo humano y Edward pierde
son unos niños prodigios en Alquimia, la ciencia que parece magia, por una razón, bastante comprensible y dramática, ellos van a cometer uno de los pocos tabús que existen en la alquimia, la transmutación humana, tratando de recuperar a su madre, trayendo consigo, catastróficas consecuenciasAlphonse pierde su cuerpo humano y Edward pierde un brazo y una pierna, a partir de este momento ambos se fijaran una meta, conseguir la piedra filosofal para poder recuperar sus cuerpos…Así Edward se convertirá en un alquimista nacional al servicio de los militares, sacrificando su infancia y la de su hermano, aprendiendo la regla primordial de la alquimia, el intercambio equivalente
I can't imagine someone not liking this. I just can't....If you like manga, you will like this.
Video reviewPerfection.
3.5 stars *flips coin to decide whether to round up or down*Of all the stages of grief, "bargaining" has always struck me as the most interesting and memorable: the appraisal of all we have and don't have, and the hypothetical transactions that we think would make things better.
We follow them as they attempt to put their lives and bodies back together, encountering other, dangerous alchemists along the way.
However, action scenes don't hold my attention for very long, and I ultimately didn't find those parts of the story to be particularly memorable.
Haven't read a manga in such a long time!!! I loved the Elric brothers!!! Can't wait to keep reading!!!
It's been 10 years-ish since I first read it, still one of the best shonen manga ever.
Join Edward Elric and his brother, Alphonse Elric in the quest of finding the ultimate power of alchemy in a world that is filled with science, magic and automails.This manga is intelligent and downright riveting, I've read it countless of times and it never fails to entertain and amaze me.
It has a solid story line and excellent graphic, the action/fighting sequence is cool and amazing.The relationship between Ed and Al is sweet and honest, I'm touched by their brotherly love because even though they fight and bicker a lot, they truly care and would do anything for one another.
Just read this damn manga already!!
I watch it religiously, even now that I have seen every episode.
Ed ends up working for the military and Al comes along with him and the ultimate hope is that, while working as alchemists, they can find the Philosopher's Stone that will hopefully restore their bodies.The theme of the series is Equivalent Exchange, the idea that in order to gain something, one must give up something of equal value.
It's something I believe as truth even in the world of non-alchemists, so perhaps that's why I'm drawn to this series.
How Ed defends Al gets me every time.This brings me to the second incredible thing that distinguishes FMA from anything else I have read: the depth in the story.
The library didn't have book three in.So. As a second read-through, I would say the series is much better.
a lot of teleological versus deontological issues, some I would have solved differently, but still fun to read.
Which, so I hope, will be further than book two this go-round!----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Original review:As a first book in a series, it doesn't really particularly stand out - except that you can see a lot of potential where it is going.
His shortness is cute though.)The artwork is not that pretty but good enough to deliver the story.
It is tears of joy!This one month of my life was a great journey into fantastic alchemy worlds!
The side characters who gave the story great development!
The story, doubtless, will live with me forever.Now it is time for the favorite quotes: Humankind cannot gain something without first giving something in return.
You humans think greed is just for money or power, but everyone wants something they can’t have.” “Your hands weren't meant to take peoples lives.
I appreciate the originality in Manga.they're always original and different than any other story.and this one was as good as any Manga i've read, i'm just hoping that we could discover more of the world and the magic system, cause it's a bit vague so far.
İlk ciltler her zaman başımın belasıdır ama buna rağmen sevdim. Fakat umuyorum ki ilerleyen ciltlerde böyle kesit kesit olaylardan ziyade bi bütün okuruz. Ben bütünü her zaman tercih ederim. Sorry not sorry.
The best goddamn masterpiece ever in written history.
Not really blown away, but it is a great start for Fullmetal Alchemist! It is a great teaser for everything you will expect from the series. Hiromu Arakawa has perfectly set the pace and the amount of humor and action in the story. As early as now, I can see why this is one of the best rated manga series in history.Volume 1 establishes the foundations of a terrific tale of the Alchemist brothers and I am very excited to be in this crazy, fun (and at times endearing) manga ride.
Really fun manga! It's somewhat similar to Dragon Ball with its playful and humorous tone and loveable characters, and it also has a more serious overarching plot and some very cool mythos and world building. Will definitely keep on reading.
I first saw this series on Netflix. Let me just say I watched almost all of the episodes till Netflix assholes took out seasons two and three for NO REASON.I love this series! Not my first anime I've fell in love with but I of course fell in love with the characters anyways, two brothers, Edward and Alphonse Elric.
Death Note'mu daha iyi yoksa bu mu karar veremedim ama sanırım bunu okurken daha çok eğlendim çünkü Edward çok badass xd
3.5 StarsThis was a super fun first volume! I have the feeling I'm really going to enjoy this series.
First time to read a manga😅excited to read the rest of the volumes....
In a desperate attempt to bring back his brother, he sacrifices his right arm to bind his brother's soul to a suit of armor.The boys learn about the Philosophers Stone, a mystical item that greatly amplifies alchemical powers, and begin to search for it in order to restore their original bodies.In order to have more access to the world, Ed becomes a State Alchemist, a dog of the military.This volume collects their adventures in Leore, the mining town (which was barely include in Brotherhood.) and the train hijacking (completely removed from Brotherhood.)I've watched the whole anime, so I know what's gonna happen, but the manga's still pretty good.The arts understandable, the drawings fluid, and the fight scenes easy to understand.
Amongst a world of manga that is somewhat the same and unoriginal(enough with the vampire manga already, people!), Fullmetal Alchemist, or FMA as it is nicknamed by fans, stands out.
To aid him in his search, Ed has joined the military, becoming a State Alchemist in order to be granted access to the gigantic hordes of information that the state reserves for the 'dogs of the military,' in the hopes that there will be some kind of clue as to the stone's whereabouts.To be blunt, Fullmetal Alchemist is one of the best manga's that I have ever read, period.
Fullmetal Alchemist è un anime che guardavo saltuariamente su Mtv quando ero piú piccola. Finalmente mi sono avvicinata al manga. Come nell'anime, ho sempre adorato Edward e Al e il loro rapporto che è a dir poco fantastico. Non ricordo molto della trama, solo l'odio si Edward nei confronti di chi gli dà del basso xD Non vedo l'ora di proseguire la lettura *.*
*metaphorically cracks knuckles*- a good start, introduced to the main characters and got a basic background on them and the plot- i think the overarching plot of the series has to do with the philosopher's stone, but it was only mentioned in chapter 1?- i really like edward. he's a little shit so ofc i would like him most.- chapter 1 is probably my fave of the four.- the art style seemed a little messy, but in a good way.
Chabooooooooon. Había empezado a ver el anime (Brotherhood, no el más antiguo) pero voy a dejar de hacerlo hasta terminar el manga. ¡LO AMÉ! La historia que es súper atrapante, los personajes que son geniales, la forma en la que está plasmada la alquimia y los chistes absurdos me pueden demasiado.El corazón me duele de solo pensar que son 27 tomos, pero creo que valen mucho la pena.¿Será que le terminaré poniendo 5 estrellas a toda la saga? mmmm.... Ya veremos.
Honestly so glad to be reading this. Finally, right? Haha! I watched Brotherhood a while back and was totally in love (though, admittedly, I didn't like the first season much and had a hard time keeping at it, but once I took a break and then came back I was hella ready to plow through it). Crying though because I know things and I don't wanna go through that again D: *cry*
