https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6778175-raspberry-jam
This classic mystery has elements of what all classic mysteries seem to have (a horrifying murder, innocent suspects, complicated relationships and a good detective) and more.
This author adds an aunt who believes in the supernatural and a con/show man to the mix.
This is a basic locked room conundrum where one person is murdered and the two suspects are innocent.
The major clue (raspberry jam) comes surprisingly through what the aunt believes was a ghost!
(There were times I got impatient with her.) This adds a great little dimension to the story.
I've read it again, and it was just as fun the second time.
It was a mystery, I guess the first might have been just a bit more fun.
I remember the first time I read it I was in suspense the whole time not only over finding the murderer but whether it was really a who-done-it or a tale ghostly visitors.
This time I enjoyed Aunt Abby and Fibsy more and detested Eunice, Embury, and Mrs. Desternay even more.
That Fibsy will grow on you.
Oh, do a bit of research about that solution.
It's really interesting and will show you a bit more of how she plotted her stories.
This is the first book I have read by Caroline Wells.
I really felt and enjoyed the the feeling of watching an old American golden years production.
If you bare this in mind you will really enjoy yourself, the descriptions, the language all add up to create a 'perfect day' feel, even if there is trouble in paradise just remember you have to look good!
- if you're not a fan of the 'old' then I don't expect you to be reading this or if you are, your in for a slog which might explain the poor ratings by other readers.
You have to read 40 percent of the book before a murder happens.
The first 40 percent of the book is talking about telepathy and visions.
Eunice and her husband also fight a lot of over money.
I did not like Eunice, she was so shallow, also played the victim card much too often.
Her fits of temper got annoying.
I am picky about titles of books and if they fit the story.
You almost have to finish the book to see where the title fits in.
This story does have an interesting tie to Shakespeare's play, Hamlet.
But then again, Wells does seem to simplify her characters into people I would never be friends with, let alone let in my house!
She comes through with a good story.This is pure melodrama with a classic cliffhanger followed by a dead body in a locked room.
While I never got over disliking Eunice, the mystery was great, especially as detective Fleming Stone with sidekick Fibsy gets to the bottom of things, especially why the book's title is Raspberry Jam. Quite clever all in all.
The good thing about the book was its fast pace. Short dialogues, quick introductions- it almost felt as though you were watching a 2-hour movie in a fast-forward mode so that you could see the full thing in an hourIt's a good book for a snappy read but there is little satisfaction to be derived from it. It's a pretty silly mystery belonging to the locked-room genre. Every character in the book emerges cliched and very un-original. The end is very predictable and boring.
A very light mystery that takes determination to keep reading since the dead body only shows up about 1/3 of the way through. The female suspect is "gorgeous when enraged" so spends a lot of time in angry hysterics which got old after a while. I liked Inspector Stone, though, and his sidekick, Fibsy.
A thoroughly entertaining and different kind of mystery. A quick read with vivid characters.
very quick and easy read
enjoyed this vintage whodunnit with a supernatural twist :-)
I suggest that when you finish this book you try and explain how the crime was done to a friend. I have not laughed like that in a while. And I honestly cannot tell if the author intended it that way.
