https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16033.Mary_Queen_of_Scotland_and_The_Isles
Even for someone who likes to read, any Margaret George book takes real commitment.
I read it again every few years, and visit it like an old friend.
The same qualities that make all of George's writing incomparable: her dedication to research combined with her ability to infuse life into facts.
Many writers bog down their work with such painstaking detail, forcing the story to fit the facts.
George's unique gift is creating a story in which facts are the skeleton and the accessories, while the story, characters, and plot are the muscle and guts, fleshing out everything in between.Brava, Mrs. George.
It's not you, it's me. I just don't have the time to read this hefty book and I want to read something light and fun. So in my best Arnold voice: "I'll be back."
From queen at a few days old, to France, back to Scotland, and then imprisoned and beheaded in England; Margaret George reveals Mary Stuart’s life in, “Mary: Queen of Scotland and the Isles”.
Overall, “Mary” has a slow start and is somewhat choppy throughout but George finds her footing and pens a novel on Mary which is less fluffy than usual.
Despite some of misgivings; “Mary” is recommended for those readers interested in the Queen of Scots or England/Scotland during the time of Mary and Queen Elizabeth.
This Mary talks and thinks like a modern woman, yet her actions are absolutely true to the spirit of the times and the known facts about her life.
Sometimes the language is a bit too modern, as when Mary describes her gorgeous husband Lord Darnley as "looking good enough to eat" during their wedding feast.
The people need a queen, not a sleeping statue!" Mary thinks she is through with love, but Bothwell insists on marrying her to protect her from the plots and treachery of the other nobles -- the ones who murdered Lord Darnley.
First off, you need to be either in the mood for this book or be very interested in Mary Queen of Scots.
I visited Scotland in January and hit pretty much every place that Mary had been.
I've never been a fan of Mary, but after standing in the rooms where Riccio was murdered, James was born and where Darnley came to his demise, I was ready to read more on Mary.
I downloaded the audio version (due to reading time constraints) and I fully enjoyed it.
I know that's why I enjoyed this book so much.
After all, it takes 650 pages to get Mary to 25 years of age.
My favorite thing to do while reading this book was to Google the individual castles (and there are a lot of them) that Mary lived in (or hid in or was held prisoner in) as well as the individual people (a surprising number of which have portraits) and often I could go to Google maps and walk the streets of Edinburgh on street view and see things like where her nemesis John Knox lived on the Royal Mile, just up the street from Holyrood Castle, and just down the hill from Edinburgh Castle.
Only if you are a die-hard Mary fan.
In no way am I knocking the author or her research (LOVED the auto-bio of Henry VIII), but I lost interest about 1/3 the way through and only finished it by using it as a book to pass the time on the treadmill with .
Maybe it is just me, as I love historical fiction and would typically devour a book like this in no time, particularly anything to do with the Tudors.
I just couldn't get into Mary's trials and tribulations, as I found her to be silly, vapid and not the queen she should have been.
Third husband was terribly amorous, but their time together was tragically brief...I just couldn't get over how UN-regal Mary was compared to Elizabeth.
There was nothing in this story that made me FEEL anything about any of the characters.
Riccio had potential and I was so hoping for him to get his revenge, but his story was squashed and my interest in the the book disappeared with it.Only in the end when Mary had her Christlike execution did she start to really come to life as a character.
I was also suprised by the romance writing (lots of pulsating and throbbing going on), as there was none of this in Memoirs of Cleopatra.I came to this book knowing absolutely nothing about Mary, and I found her life very intriguing and extremely sad.
I am not giving up on Margaret George as yet, as I still want to try Helen of Troy.The Story: Mary, Queen of Scotland and the Isles is the story of a woman born to rule a nation - and the glorious pageant of love and tragedy that followed in her wake.
I knew it was too good to be true that I should enjoy historical fiction.
Remember the old granny in COLD COMFORT FARM that saw something nasty in the woodshed?
Well, I know what she saw.
She saw page 304 of this damn book!
There I was minding my own business halfway thru this not terrible novel when I of a sudden i saw something beyond nasty.
I was completely irritated.
Why in the hell would the writer, of no mean talent, ruin (YES, RUIN) a perfectly decent book by turning so, well, NASTY.
Jeesh, I'm beyond irritated.
Mary Queen of Scotland and the Isles is a wonderful Historical novel which captures the essence of Mary and her historical trials and tribulations.
Mary Was Queen of France and Scotland and had a legitimate claim to the English throne after the death of Mary I (Bloody Mary) of England and Queen Elizabeth I ascended to the throne of England.
Elizabeth I was King Henry VIII daughter by Ann Boleyn after Henry's questionable divorce from Catherine of Aragon.
When the Pope wouldn't sanction Henry VIII's divorce to Catherine of Aragon, so that he could marry Anne Boleyn.
Mary, Queen of Scots, was the last Roman Catholic ruler of Scotland.The tale of this beautiful woman, is one of the great tragedies of British history.Margaret George, in this long book, brings Mary, and the Scotland, France and England of her time to life.A sympathetic, but not idealistic portrayal of Mary as a woman who was warmhearted , loyal, brave, generous and spirited, but also unable to read character,volatile and impulsive.The book takes us from Mary's birth, and her coronation as Queen of Scotland, when she was only a week old,she was shipped to France, for her own safety when she was six years old, together with her companions from early childhood , Mary Livingstone, Mary Fleming, Mary Beaton and Mary Seaton (the four Mary's).Brought up in the French court , she was married to the Dauphin Francois at the age of 15, and widowed two years later.She returned to Scotland, after the death of her husband , King Francois II, after his mother Catherine De Medici, made it clear she was no longer welcome in France.Dealing with conniving Lords and officials , she was clearly outmanouvered at every turn.
Maria Stuart interessiert mich vor allem, seit ich die Serie Reign gucke (ja ich weiß, nicht sehr nah an der Realität) und als ich sah, dass es ihre Biografie als Roman gibt, musste ich den natürlich lesen.Der Roman ist toll erzählt, anstrengend ist es allerdings durch die vielen vielen Namen.
Über 200 historische Personen, die man iiiirgendwie auseinanderhalten soll.
Ich habe da leicht den Überblick verloren, was aber der Geschichte keinen großen Abbruch getan hat.
Vor allem die Seiten nach dem Todesurteil.Insgesamt ist das Buch aber sehr zu empfehlen, wenn man historische Romane mag oder/und Interesse an Geschichte hat.
I hadn't known too much about the details of Mary, Queen of Scots' life, so this book was really enjoyable and informative. I found myself advocating for Mary, then becoming frustrated with her decision making as she moved toward what I knew was going to be her demise. I was pleased to learn that, of the 200 characters in the book, all of them were real figures in history, so it seems Margaret George is a top notch historical writer. I also enjoyed hearing her (Margaret George) brief analysis of Mary and how she conducted her life.
There were times I closed the book to look at the front cover to be certain a shirtless Fabio wasn’t on it.
The more I thought about it the more I began to wonder why Mary Queen of Scots is such a popular monarch and not merely a footnote to history.
Before her reign in Scotland her early and terribly uneventful childhood and teenage years were spent in France barely making a mark on history.
I don’t see why she warrants an 800 plus page book chronicling her life or any of the popularity she has culled over time.
I wish the author had spent less time on the latter half of Mary's life, and more on her years in Scotland, particularly where her relationship with the Earl of Bothwell is concerned.
Bothwell, to me, is one of history's more fascinating personalities, and I felt that, even though he is the book's hero, George rather gave him short shrift.
All this aside, however, George is not untalented as a writer, and as a look at Mary's life and times, it is still an improvement over Antonia Fraser's book, which is one of the stupidest so-called "acclaimed" biographies I have ever read.
Even though one of her books is among my favorites (Autobiography of Henry VIII), her work seems to be hit and miss with me because I couldn't finish "Mary, Called Magdalene" and now this one I'm finding the slow bits are more frequent than they should be.There was also one scene that I thought really wasn't necessary and took the idea of "creative license" too liberally.
I was surprised to see it was written in third person since, if I recall correctly, all her other books to date are written in first person.
Filled with intrigue, betrayal, and the politics of the day, I remained interested most of the time, only losing interest occasionally in scenes filled with intense battle descriptions or the like.
Mary had a life marked by much sadness and disappointment, but throughout it all, she kept a sense of almost naive optimism.
Overall, I was kept a bit sad throughout, as she truly was let down on so many levels over and over again.
Her political, personal, and romantic lives were all dismal, and this was rendered on an extremely personal level.
During most of the book, it was like traveling back in time, and having a secret hiding place, watching history unfold through a tiny window, but never actually being inside the room.
I didn't have that breathless magical feeling I get when I finish a five star novel that truly moves me.
However, the amount of work that must have been put into writing this novel is staggering, and deserves five stars for that alone.
I found myself stopping reading in several places and reflecting on the nature of power and politics.
I DID IT!!!!!! I finished this monater of a book before the year is over! WHOOOOOHOOOOOOI actually really liked the first 2/3rds of this and it would have been a 4 star read. The last 400 pages dragged on like nothing else though. This story could have been told in 600 pages if you ask me.But you guys also know that I like fast moving plots so yeah.
Margaret George makes, what could have been a dense and sluggish novel, very easy to read!
Sometimes she was infatuated with Bothwell, sometimes he manipulated and raped her, forced her into marriage knowing that as a Catholic woman, she would oblige to erase the rape (a stupid rule to be honest, but hey there we go.) Sometimes she plots Darnley's murder, sometimes she is framed by her enemies.
But it's certainly exciting to read and see the different reasons behind her choices.
Margaret George does a tremendous job bringing to life the times and characters and the drama surrounding the legendary Mary, Queen of Scots.
I like the way this book tells of her entire life, not just her captivity in England in which all she does in other novels is write letters and whine.
BUT, once I reached page 500, I had enough, and no offense to Margaret George, I simply cannot stand Mary, Queen of Scots.
Nevertheless, when Mary finally does take the Scottish throne, no one wants her there and the reader will soon find out why.
After reading and viewing several biographical accounts of Queen Elizabeth I, I became intrigued by the life of Mary Queen of Scots who usually figured as a minor actor in the Virgin Queen's story.
In this 870 page tome, Mary is the central figure with Elizabeth the minor, yet incredibly powerful, character who ultimately determines Mary's fate.Well-researched and well-written, Margaret George depicts in full but not exhausting detail the lifestyle, political and religious climates of not only Scotland, but France, Spain and England during the 1500's.
Mary Queen of Scots led a fascinating life, which is described in captivating detail in George's book.
Despite the commitment the length of this book demands, every page held a piece of Scottish history I wanted to understand.Mary can be a very controversial historical figure.
However, I respected George's interpretation, even more so once reading her notes at the end of the book.
However, without such character she would not be the prominent Scottish figure she is today.She truly is a fascinating woman, full of many contradictions but true to who she was.
In the end, I found myself respecting this character that George brought to life.
I've had this book for years and for the life of me can't figure out why it took me so long to read it, especially as I enjoyed "The Autobiography of Henry VIII".
Once I cracked it open, it took me no time to become hooked and I really enjoyed Margaret George's interpretation of Mary Queen of Scotland.
Yes, the book is a bit long and has lots of historical detail; isn't that a description of a good historical novel?
I especially enjoyed George's interpretation of Mary and Bothwell's relationship.
If only history courses in school were taught via historical novels..
It's so much easier to remember a period in history when you can become emotionally involved with the characters!
I very much enjoyed reading this (long, but definitely a page turner) book, though it lacked a depth that many good novels have.
I never quite figured out how I felt about Mary, which is part of the point since her true character remains a bit of a mystery.
George (the author) graciously tells her readers in the epilogue how she made certain decisions along the way and how her portrayal of characters and events differed from other notable books on Queen Mary.
While this is a -very- long-winded novel, at least the author refrains from the more extravagant silliness that seems to have taken over the historical novel market.
The Mary here is foolhardy, more wanting to be loved than involved in politics, but unfortunately, she was born in the wrong time and place.
While the religious angle does get a bit much at times, it wasn't that bad of a novel (I suspect being snowbound is why I got through it so quickly), and overall, if you like to read thick historical novels, this might be for you.
Four stars overall, and a recommend.
Another book of historical goodness! This was the second book I read by George. It was a little daunting to go from the long Autobiography of Henry VIII to another long tale of Queen Mary, but I was eager and excited nonetheless. I really enjoy George's ability to take historical facts and mold them together with fiction to create an account of a life that might be both interesting to history buffs or boring to someone not that interested in history.
This was the first time I read a book by Margaret George and I'm really impressed. The story felt believable and historically accurate. Mary Stuart was portrayed as a loving, strong but also very human character. I felt for her so much.The beginning was painfully slow, but when it did pick up, it was hard to put it down. In many ways it's a frustrating book, just because Mary is treated so badly throughout almost all of the story. But even so, it's well worth the read and very interesting.
I liked it. Didn't love it, but I liked it well enough. I love Margaret George as a writer - her Autobiography of Henry VIII was outstanding. I love long books - Shogun is my favorite book of all time. This one did not quite sing like those, it went on a bit in places, it used a lot of POVs, it slipped a few modern elements into the narrative, but it was a well-told story for people who like the period.
