https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19187140-the-man-who-lost-himself
4.5 StarsThis is a wonderful story about a penniless American man who accidently meets his double in a crowded Hotel lounge.
But when the morning newspaper arrives, it all becomes clear: 'Mr Jones, the American' (the real Mr. Rochester) has commited suicide...You have to love Vincent Jones.
All could have carried on smoothly but then the new Mr Rochester meets the lovely woman who he is "married" to and falls in love...What follows is a confession, a lunatic asylum and a great escape.
There is no part of the story that lagged at all and I really felt invested in the characters.
'Where on earth have I met him?'"Over a fairly toxic assortment of drinks, the stranger whose name turns out to be Rochester, gives Mr. Jones the shock of his life.
Fortunately, Jones is also pretty darn tough: "He had a great deal of the terrier in his composition, the honesty, the rooting out instinct, and the fury before vermin." A wonderful light read with a likable hero, plenty of twists and turns, and funny moments.
I would have loved an epilog about Victor Jones' life a few years after.
This is the adventure of a lifetime for penniless American Jones.
A life-changing adventure.
One night in a pub he sees a man who looks familiar, very familiar.
Both mutually find this a fascinating and the look-alike to Jones pay for Jones drink, and for another and another.
Everything went well until Jones found he/his look-alike had a wife.
Jones, makes the best of a sticky situation and tries to clear up the mess his look-alike landed him in.
And so we have revelations, a daring escape from an asylum, switched identities and a satisfying ending.G Few swears, some drinking and nothing else.
A well-written twist on the doppelganger/exchange of identities tale. The theme of being lost in another’s identity is handled with fists of ham, but the limited third-person narration works far better than a first-person approach would have. A good read and a good find.
Henry de Vere Stacpoole was a doctor, a traveller, a poet, a dramatist, a biographer and – on the evidence of this book from 1918 – a very capable novelist.You may know his name from ‘The Blue Lagoon’ – which I hope is a better book that its most recent film adaptations suggest – but this is a very different story.It opens in London, where a young American businessman, named Vincent Jones, has not been having the best of times.
Victor has less than ten pounds in his pocket, he owes money to the hotel and he has no idea how he will pay for his return passage to the United States.Victor sees "a very well dressed man of his own age and build" come into the bar at the hotel.
"This man's face seemed quite familiar to him, so much so that he started to rise and greet him.
"The same...colour of hair, the same features, shape of head, ears and colour of eyes, the same serious expression of countenance." What follows is a fantastic tale of mistaken identity, blackmail, daring escapes and a certain lovely lady.
Very entertaining. Guy gets swapped into the position of his aristocratic lookalike, who has a rubbish reputation, massive debts, and an estranged wife. The aristocrat then goes off and gets himself killed, leaving the clueless stranger (Jones) to carry his name and make whatever he can of this dubious life. Fortunately, Jones is bold and decisive, just the man to redeem a reputation that had gone to the dogs. (If he can also handle the lunatic asylum he gets thrown into.)
I have a new, old, obscure author to explore! Great story telling for the sake of story telling. The plot is entirely implausible, but that is no accident. In fact, its purposeful implausibility is very well done. A great read for all ages and seasons.
If you like the less spiritual GK Chesterton, and the non SF H G Wells, then this is for you. I love both more famous authors, and this novel stands up to either. I've read half a dozen Stacpoole novels now (thanks to PG, of course) and no two are alike. What a superbly competent, versatile author he was.
Surprisingly interesting - I didn't expect it to be so easy to listen to, somehow. I listened to the Librivox reading, and that's always hit or miss. But the story grabbed me right off and held me all the way through. A fun, light read.
Your remembrance of the evening is a bit fuzzy, but you figure this is a grand practical joke and think you'll play along for a bit.
Your look-alike was not playing a practical joke, but a cruel trick.
You really know nothing about this Earl, you are merely an American visiting and now even the few shillings you had in your pocket the Earl took when he stole your identity to commit suicide.We meet Jones, the American businessman that thought he was a bit down on luck before he met the Earl of Rochester, now he is really at a loss.
Entertaining story about identity switching between two strangers.
One is Jones, a down-on-his-luck American, who, never-the-less, is very practical, bold, moral, and a great judge of character.
The other is Rochester, a well-known English Earl, who has nearly run-down his family's wealth because of his dastardly friends and his own lousy judgement, and his sweet lovely wife has moved out because of his philandering.
The two just happen to look exactly alike, and the Earl pulls a mean trick on Jones, leaving him with all his messes to clear up.
Quite humorous and fun, along with some nasty characters and happenings.
Free download available at Project Gutenberg.
I actually listened to the audio book on Youtube.
The guy had a really nice voice.
This popped up in my feed so I started listening to it around the beginning of October and only listened to it while I was at work.
I really enjoyed this book.It's a gamble when it comes to fiction that's 99 years old.
This book though still seems fresh.
It's kind of like that but set in England and instead of a bum and rich man its an American and an English Lord.
Well, I guess it's kind of the same.

He didn't even have enough money left to pay for his hotel let alone pay for his passage back home.But his luck was about to change, only not necessarily for the better, for he was about to be brought face to face with his own mirror image, a lord of the realm and inveterate practical joker, the Earl of Rochester.They go out on the town, Jones gets drunk and when he awakes next day he is in Rochester's house, in his bed, in his silk pajamas.
I was intrigued by the synopsis of this book: two strangers, one poor and one rich, who find they resemble one another change places with each other. It is a well-known plot device, but it was free on Kindle, so here was nothing to lose! I really enjoyed it, the hero made the best use of his situation, my only complaint is that the ending was a bit rushed.
This was great. I loved it. Although entirely improbable as a story in real life, the plot was very original and completely entertaining. The only thing that would have made it better for me would have been if I had actually read it instead of listening to the audio at night in the dark while falling asleep. Still, it was a nice way to fall asleep!
I listened to this on librivox. It is very convoluted story that kept me engaged to the end. The reader is excellent.
intense, not for everyone
