https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24093.Street_Magic
Briar and his teacher, Rosethorn, have taken up temporary residence in Chammur while Rosethorn works with the local farmers to restore the land.
While in the market, Briar spots Evvy,a young street rat, cleaning stones and passing some of her magic to them.
All the while, a war is brewing between the local gangs and Briar is staying far away to avoid slipping back in to his former ways.
But when the gangs decide they want to recruit the newest stone mage in town, Briar must find a way to protect Evvy without reverting to the street rat once was.Another of my constant rereads, this novel is amazing.
It's ironic that feminist writer Tamora Pierce's only male character, the self-named Briar Moss, is one of her best characters.
Amongst the rest of the mainly female cast, his charisma, street smarts and ongoing inner conflict between his younger, wilder instincts, and his older, more civilized self, makes him one of the most lovable and well-rounded characters in the Circle of Magic series.The first four books gathered together four magical protégées: aristocratic Sandry, moody bookworm Tris, stoic Daja, and street-rat Briar, all of whom have complimentary powers that allowed them to perform startling acts of magic.
Underlying their feats are the strength of the friendship and the bonds of trust that they forge, making the original four books one of the most touching examples of a self-made foster family in young adult literature, particularly...
We know he absolutely loves and respects his foster sisters and mentors, but he's still always mentioning the girls getting ~silly ideas~ or ~being emotional~ as ridiculous girly things he would never do.
It felt like she fell back on standard tropes for how a young, snarky thief boy should think that doesn't feel nearly as original as the rest of Briar's character.I will give credit for the part at the end of the book, where Briar talks to Rosethorn and admits that he used to think Tris was weak for waking up with nightmares about the deaths she caused but now he understands because he gets them too.
4 stars rather than 5 as I felt the pace slowed almost too much from MAGIC STEPS, but it was still such a wonderful read.
I adore Evvy.
I ADORE HER.
It's good, y'all.
Real good.
:-pI still miss all four kids being together, and I'm putting a lot of hopes on The Circle Reforged series for this and for getting to see the new characters again.
I want this circle of friendship to really grow!!
I am glad that I'm reading these all back to back without a break, because it means I'm not going TOO long without seeing any one of the kids (or their teachers).
I really love the way this full cast works.
I was slightly disappointed that this one isn't narrated by Tamora, but it makes sense since this is mainly Briar's story.
Also, the narrator was still great.Oh Briar, I love his passion for plants and how he protects Rosethorn.
However, teaching young Evvy makes him question whether gangs are necessary/right.
I loved seeing Briar figure out how to teach Evvy, she reminded me so much of Briar in Sandry's book.
Also anyone who thinks a plant mage isn't dangerous is so wrong and I love when Briar would show them.
But since it was second and made clear the fact that this series is Pierce's most formulaic yet, it sort of soured it for me.
The final setpiece with Briar doing all kinds of awesome plant magic to rescue Evvy was seriously so cool, and I wish I could see it on film somehow.It was soured at first by the fact that Sandry's book immediately preceding it also featured her finding an untrained mage and conveniently being the only one available to teach that mage.
Sandry's struggles just aren't as interesting as Briar's.
I adore this series! You can see my series review on the blog.
I like Evy's pluck and Briar's protectiveness of her.
When he tore down the lady's house to get to her.
O.O Edit: Added detailI still can't believe lady Zenadia doa Atteneh could be so evil and that Ikrum WORSHIPED her!
I really hope that Evvy continues her education in both stone magic and general education.
And that Briar survives having another prickly female mage around.
I like Evvy and Brian.
I was happy to see that the watchman had a female assistant since Briar pointed out that wasn't common.Of all the magics I find plant magic and stone magic to be a bit boring.
review to come :)
It provides the storyline more independence as the apprentices require more characters to be brought in and made a part of the "family".It's taken until Briar's story for me to realize the meaning of "The Circle Opens".
Qinling is a resident of the caves and speaks Evvy's native language with her.Dedicate Rosethorn of Winding Circle temple in Emelan is his teacher and a highly renowned plant mage.
Tris, Daja, and Sandry are part of Briar's mage circle.The Cover and TitleThe colorful cover is the market scene where Briar discovers Evvy polishing rocks, bringing forth their magic, doing Street Magic.
To be honest, I didn't really enjoy this novel as much as the last one, and I think it's probably my least favourite of the Tamora Pierce books that I've read lately ;u; I mean, I loved Briar as a character, and I thought that him getting his own apprentice/student (as Sandry did in the last book) was brilliant and all but I just...
It just lacked the impact that all the other Tamora Pierce books have had on me lately and I just feel kinda "meh" about it overall?
not AS good as all the Tamora Pierce ones I've read this year ;u;Honestly, I still love Briar, and Rosethorn...
This was an OK read, certainly good enough to pass the time, but not my favorite of Pierce's books.
(view spoiler)[There are three gangs in the book, all of whom impact the plot in a major way.
Pierce barely bothers to distinguish them from one another and the relations between each gang and between the gangs and the main antagonist are so thinly sketched that everyone's motivations become muddled and confusing.
I also thought that things came way too easy to Briar in this book.
Briar is able to use his plant magic to defeat any adversary that comes his way.
This book was a great look into teenage Briar and just how much mischief he was able to get into after leaving the Winding Circle.
I love that he’s a mother hen over Rosethorn (as much as she tolerates it) yet still finds away to be himself.
As he begins to get to know Evvy, he finds someone who is just as stubborn, perhaps even more so.
Those looking for a fun magical journey, but it’ll make much more sense if you read The Circle of Magic series first.See all my reviews and more at www.ReadingtoDistraction.com or @Read2Distract
When Briar Moss spots a girl named Evvy doing stone magic in a market place, he takes her on as his student.
Soon after Briar takes on Evvy, they are swept up into gang warfare between the Camelguts and the Vipers.
Evvy is kidnapped for her magic by the Vipers and Briar must decide weather he is ready to take the final step away from his gang life for good.
He also takes Evvy back to Discipline with him (you find this out at the end and in The Will of the Empress).
This book is good for ages 10 and up.
I LOVE the kids as teachers and being retrospective on their own experiences and growing up and especially with BRIAR oh gosh this has been so much. Also can we talk more about how we've had two excellent and unapologetic lady villains now?? I was worried this would be really contrived re: Briar as the "reformed street rat" but I think it came together really nicely showing his growth but especially his affection for his former life and I'm pleased.
I LOVE THIS BOOK. First of all, Briar is the original Steve from Stranger Things season 2 (he's 14 and he has a 9-year-old student). And no spoilers but the scene at the end is EPIC. I listened to the audiobook of this and I'd highly recommend it. It's Full Cast Audio and the actors are great. (The first book in this series is Sandry's Book. The 4 main characters are 10 in that one and they're 18 by the last book in the series.)
Quick, engrossing, and entertaining. Like the previous volume, I'm enjoying this series more than when we met the original group at the Winding Circle, with its four rotating POVs. The plot didn't seem as convoluted and was rather straightforward. But seeing Briar show off his magic was rather awesome.
Justice is always so unflinching in Briar's books. It's refreshing, in a bracing, terrifying sort of way.
Audiobook: liked the story and hope to continue with the series once playaway records the next two books!
Continuing my re-read of the books from the Circle of Magic universe - definitely interesting seeing Briar as a teacher, and his further development as a character.
Briar’s past as a gang member and what that truly means is so beautifully illustrated when he is forced to take on his first student.
Her constant, stubborn refusal and her clear-sighted insight into the dangers and perils of this life are kind of dark, but in a great way, they force Briar (and myself as a reader) to look further into what this truly entails for a street kid.
The way that these characteristics are manifest in these two is a brilliant and often humorous interaction.The class system of Chammuri is a great reminder of the class system within our own societies – the rich can get away with a lot more than the poor.
Wealthy patrons, poor conditions, and cultural rivalries make things difficult for Briar and his new student.I still enjoy the Emelan adventures, *but* I think The Circle Opens series doesn't strike the right balance between a continuation of the original quartet and the cultural injustices Pierce seems to be focusing on in these later books.
Each new local character makes Chamur seem even more desperate and classist than the last, and the guilt of the wealthy taking advantage of the poor drips off every page.What worries me most is that when Briar and Evvy have to kill in order to survive, they celebrate their magical skill together and take pride in punishing those they deem worthy of pain and suffering.
I haven't read the first three Circle of Magic books yet, so I can't say how much Briar's tact (or lack of) and bravery (or foolishness) was fleshed out, so I was never sure if his courses of action would bring misfortune later.
Perhaps it was only because he was a mage, but the story focuses more on his street upbringing more, so I nervously wondered if he had a blind spot and would get sucked in to the point of no escape.The only Circle of Magic book I read, Briar's Book had no combat.
Things that struck me while I re-read this book.1) My love for Briar hasn’t faded over time.
Yes. And we see him grow (heh) so much since we first met him in book one of The Circle of Magic Series.
Infinite thanks to Tamora Pierce for giving this series Briar Moss.
Like, there have been violent moments in the first series, and yes, there is bloodshed in book one of this one, but JEEZ.
I’m not sure if I really like the way it’s handled, or if the whole exploration lacked substance.
I’m on the fence about it.I liked this book better than Sandry’s.
Continuing with the Circle as they branch out, this time we follow Briar.
I always really liked Briar.
He stands out as the only boy in the Circle and he has the most type of magic that fantasy often decides is feminine (plant magic with knowledge of healing and medicines), and that's always something that really made me like him.
It really makes him a great protagonist to follow.
Like Sandry, he's reluctant to become a teacher.
Evvy's a great addition to the cast.
The storyline to this book is another great one.
Overall, another great Circle book and another favourite.
I listened to this (having read it many years ago) because some of the details mentioned in The Will of the Empress were confusing to me and I wondered if I'd just forgotten what happened.
I will say the full cast audio version of this is excellent, as is AOL their work.
You occasionally recognize a voice from a different series (I've listened to their recordings of Shannon Hale's Goose Girl and sequels, and the Dealing with Dragons by Patricia Wrede Manu of the cast members did together before FCA was a thing) and I love them all.
I adored Evvy; she's everything I love in female child characters, and I can't wait to see where she goes next.
Tamora Pierce's worldbuilding never fails to impress me, and this was no exception: like all of her books, the setting is a character, and Chammur seemed like a living, breathing being instead of just a city.
I think I enjoyed it more than the other books because I love Briar, Evvy and Rosethorn so much, but at times it did feel like a drag, because I've read this story before.
I got both of them out of my school library – looking back, I assume I picked them up because I'd been given a Tamora Pierce as a birthday gift and wanted to read more.It's certainly the book that really piqued my interest in the world and its characters – I came away with a love and affection for Briar Moss that lasted all through my teen years.The world building here is really stellar.
Street Magic's a quick, engrossing, and entertaining story .
As Tamora Pierce's only male character, Briar Moss, is one of her best characters.
Amongst the rest of the mainly female cast, his charisma, street smarts and ongoing inner conflict between his younger, wilder instincts, and his older, more civilized self, makes him one of the most lovable and well-rounded characters in the Circle of Magic series.
Seeing Briar show off his magic was rather awesome and how he takes Evvy under his wing as his student, even though she had Earth mage magic was remarkably written.
I love the Circle of Magic series and recommend it to young and old (like me) alike.
Although the plot was good, I didn't feel as immersed in the world as in some other books.
It didn't feel very rich, almost dry, and it made my want to find some more books in middle grade fiction and lower, because they are usually shorter and funner(which may or may not be a word), and have more "bang for your buck," as they say.
It says "Briar once believed gangs offered protection, but now he and his mage may offer the only protection Evvy can count on." I think it means his magic or Rosethorn, and I don't think it means Rosethorn, because that's just a weird way to say "his teacher".
So I think they were trying to say his magic.
