https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76982.The_Twisted_Claw
The Hardy Boys: Twisted Claw Mystery  The Twisted Claw Mystery is written by Franklin W. Dixon. It is a fantastic mystery novel about the two Hardy Brothers. Franklin W. Dixon does an amazing job at making the mystery take place in many different cities, and continents. He also does a great job at making it somewhat realistic, even if some parts aren’t. This was a compelling case about a group of people robbing rare collections of ancient pirate treasures. Franklin researched a lot for this book
The Hardy Boys: Twisted Claw Mystery 	The Twisted Claw Mystery is written by Franklin W.
Dixon does an amazing job at making the mystery take place in many different cities, and continents.
He also does a great job at making it somewhat realistic, even if some parts aren’t.
All in all he did a great job on this book.
I have read quite a bit of Hardy Boy Books, but I have to say this one was one of my favorites.
The intensity of the book was real, and every time the Hardy Boys managed to escape any situation they happen to be in.
What a delightful read. My son and daughter read it to me in stages and we all really enjoyed it. On to the next one !!
One of the very first mystery novels that I ever read, and purely because the cover of the book looked so awesome!
I picked this Hardy Boys book up to read next because it had on the front what I thought was a knight in a suit of armor.
Alas, this book was not about castles or knights.
It all began with a coincidence- one of the boys found an ancient memoir sort of very old book in a dusty old bookshop.
This led the Hardy Boys into the Canadian woods following smugglers and eventually on a pirate ship that docked on a forbidden island where if someone ever sees the island, they must stay forever.
What I thought was a knight in armor was a guard on the island.
Continuing my goal of re-reading all 190 Hardy Boys books of my youth, I turned eagerly to my old, well-worn copy of The Twisted Claw.
Always my favorite Hardys tale in my youth, I had read and re-read this book and indeed my copy today shows wear and tear.
It has a combination of a great story, interesting criminal mystery and fast-paced action as the Hardys investigate thefts of old armor and jewels from a number of museums.
They encounter shipboard action, a mysterious old manuscript, stories about an old pirate kingdom, and plenty of adventure.
Anyone who likes the Hardy Boys will love The Twisted Claw!
Great book! It's very excited how they board the smuggling ships without the crew knowing, and the whole Twisted Claw Empire idea was great! Recommend this book to anyone who likes mysteries on ships, and to mystery fans in general!
I think this is a great book for anyone and everyone to read!
The Hardy brothers get suspicious about a heist for smuggling museum items.
Eventually the brothers met a secret helper on the boat to help them escape.
When they escaped the ended up on an abandoned island with Indians.
The hardy's found a hermit who told the hardy's everything that was happening in the heist, and the heist started years ago.
The hermit and the hardy's came up with a plan to stop this heist and went to sink the boats.
This ended very well with all the museum items on a boat with the heists mastermind.
Another silly Hardy Boys mystery where breaking the law by stowing away in ships is overlooked because the boys find some hollow logs. Madness!
The Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew are the first series that I remember reading. I was still in elementary school, but I remember thinking I was reading more grown up books because these were long (more than 20 pages, lol) and there was more than one book you could read with the same main characters! The innocence of these mysteries and recalling my own innocence just makes me happy. All parents should give their kids Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew when they're young - only good things can come of it.
As Frank, Joe and Chet search out a couple suspicious ships docking in Bayport, they soon learn that the mission their father has sent them on connects to a continuing series of robberies at museums around North America, and will throw them in constant danger across the waters! Dixon will have young readers glue to the pages with the suspense!
Absolutely one of the dorkiest covers yet (although there are a few worse). In this book: more smugglers. It's always smugglers. But at least they call themselves the Order of the Twisted Claw, which... is pretty badass, really.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
An extra star for this Hardy Boys book for its pirates and mythical island. More than I expected. Dad seemed especially incapable in this one.
Megalomaniacal villain is no match for the Hardy brothers!
(Please see my review of House on the Cliff. Same comments apply.)
Now I know why I cannot remember any of the plot lines of all of the Hardy Boys I read years ago. They stretch the credulity, and are sometimes completely inane. Still, these books are a good introduction into places (merchantmen, this time) that boys (and girls) should get to know.
L'ARTIGLIO ROSSO
Another one of my favorites--there's so much adventure in this one!
* * * 1/2 rounded up
Dixon177Mystery The Twisted claw is about Frank and Joe Hardy.
Joe and frank first had to check out the Black Parrot which was a ship.
The Hardy's thought that it would have the stollen artifacts from the museum but they did not find any clues.
Frank and joe dressed up in as ship mates but they got captured half way through the voyage.
Another event was when all three of the Hardy's and Chet went to the last four museum's to try to stop the artifacts from being stollen.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
I read the pre-1969 edition--the original edition. Pretty weak plot to begin with--their breakthroughs on the case are mostly random accidents, including Frank buying a book at random from a used book shop that turns out to be the solution to the mystery. Also very implausible storyline, so perhaps a good thing the original got the work-over. Not the best Hardy Boys book.
The Twisted Claw by Franklin W. Dixon is another example of a classic Hardy Boys mystery. When a New York museum is robbed the curator requests the Hardy Boys to figure out who did it. The Boys get into some major trouble on two ships that are up to no good. Will the Hardy Boys solve the mystery of the Twisted Claw? Read to find out.
I'm not a big fan of The Hardy Boys, but I still like it. The first time I looked at this book, I doubted to read it. I suddenly gave up and started reading it. I became a little interested in the topic and after the end, I was like: "Not bad..."
One of my favorite childhood series.
Museums are being ripped off. Pirate collections that are rare are being stolen and being smuggled outside the country. The Hardy boys seek to find out who is responsible and stop them. This is a good read for readers in their early teens.
It was GREAT!!!
One of my favorites in the series excellent book of kids/young adult mystery books
Why does everyone always pick on Chet? Poor guy.
