https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6400069-the-witch-in-the-wood
The Queen of Air and Darkness is shorter and less rich than the first book, I think.
There's less of Arthur and Merlyn, and more interludes spent -- carrying most of the humour of the story -- with Pellinore and Sir Grummore, and the Questing Beast.It does do several important jobs: introduce Gawaine and his brothers, foreshadow the birth of Mordred and the consequences of the incest, and begin to set Arthur up as a noble king, one who is doing things a little differently to the traditional ways kings are meant to behave.Despite the relatively smaller scope, it's still an enjoyable read.
Funny in places, and easy to read, and well-written, with passages of surprising beauty given the general humorous tone.
This is the story that introduces us to Arthur’s round table and his reasoning for deciding to make it round (to foster camaraderie between his knights by making them all appear equal at a round table rather than at a traditional table where a knight might feel his seat is further away from the head and therefore an insinuation that he wasn’t as good as those before him).However, largely this book follows Arthur’s Gaelic half-sister–the queen of Orkney, sister to Morgan Le Fay, and a witch herself, Morgeuse–and her sons (eventual knights of the round table), Gawain, Gaheris, Gareth, and Agravain.
Morguese and her sons play a large role in the eventual downfall of Arthur.
I have to stand by my old review of this almost to the letter.
It's shorter than The Sword in the Stone, and the humour is less evenly distributed -- there's a sort of humour about Morgause and her sons, I suppose, but it's not the same warm kind that Pellinore and Palimedes carry in this book, or that attended just about everyone in the first book.
That might be part of what makes it less appealing.
Be careful who you choose as a read along partner!White contrasts the self-centered violence of the Orknians with the bungling, manic, almost slapstick exploits of King Pellinore, Sir Grummore, Sir Palomides, and the Questing Beast.
If you keep on dividing you end up as a collection of monkeys throwing nuts at each other out of separate trees."Then there's this lesson that's only possible because Merlyn's life runs backwards in time."Very interesting.
I love the freedom that Merlyn's living backwards through time gives to White as a storyteller.I'm really looking forward to the last two books in this series.
Technically, I've sorta read this.
I mean, I've read 'The Queen of Air and Darkness' which is a more abridged, slightly darker, version of the same story.
I think T.H. White cut this book down to the nubs a little to make 'The Once and Future King' more managable and probably more marketable.
So, while I write that I've read, and while the 'Witch in the Wood' is often used interchangably with 'the Queen of Air and Darkness', they aren't identical twins or even dopplegangers.
It is like they are kissing cousins, or perhaps they share the same mother._______________- Robert Farwell / Edward Jones library / Mesa, AZ 2014
The story stays right on the line of ridiculousness, occasionally crossing over at random intervals.
In many pieces of the book, the reader feels that White simply did not feel like talking about something anymore, and moved on, midthought.
The plotline of this story is purely linear, with no writing skills or techniques that persuade the reader to continue.
The story is dragged over a well worn path in circles, taking breaks very infrequently to show any reason behind the continued publication of the book.
In conclusion, The plotline is clear but bland, the characters defined but weak, and the language barely understandable.
They're too rich to fightKing Arthur's not playing fairpick on someone poor.
Where The Sword in the Stone was fairly light, The Witch in the Wood (aka The Queen of Air and Darkness) is rather dark.
It’s also a weaker book.White has said he struggled with this one and it certainly seems that way.
In a sense, it isn’t really a novel so much as it is a lengthy exposition setting up the books that follow.
The book is entirely set-up.Still, it’s an easy read though you may find yourself tapping your toe wondering when the story will start until, out of nowhere, it ends.
I can see why T.H White meant for these books to be read as a whole, and not as separate volumes.
The Witch in the Wood is shorter than The Sword in The Stone and if read alone might come across as too abrupt.
The humour has grown slightly, becoming darker, as Arthur has grown and the events surrounding his life mature and grow increasingly dangerous.I would say this instalment comes across as somewhat of a humerus Greek Tragedy, as it falls into the pattern of invincible young hero who is destined to be thwarted by a taboo he didn't know he was committing (think Oedipus).
There isn't much here that's of interest in and of itself.I think it would have been interesting to focus more on Arthur and his early days of kingship.
Again, I suspect there's more of that coming in later books.It feels rather like White is supplementing Malory in this book, rather than writing his own take.
It's like White thought he wasn't allowed to reinterpret Malory or the myth of Arthur, or that he wasn't allowed to make it his own.
I'm so used to authors retelling fairy tales and myths in their own way that White's approach seems a bit lacking to me.
I love the mix of future historical events, such as the rule of Hitler, mixed into the conversations Merlin has with Arthur. The philosophy about war and happiness in the kingdom's people is all really interesting mixed in with the story. I highly recommend checking these out if you have not read them before.
A fun second book but at the end I kind of wondered what the point was. maybe I was just preoccupied while reading it, but I feel like this could have been part of another book, not a book in itself. Its so short I may reread it soon when I can really focus on whats happening in the book.
Some are gruesomely disturbing: like the take of Gawaine and his brothers killing the Unicorn.The only parts I really enjoyed we're the conversations with Arthur, Kay, and Merlyn.Arthur learns much about the nature of war in this book.
Later Kay tells Merlyn he has thought of a good reason to go to war."There might be a king who had discovered a new way of life for human beings — you know, something which would be good for them.
On the contrary, he made it clear that the business of the philosopher was to make ideas available, and not to impose them on people." This is part of the joy of having a character like Merlyn in the book.
The book is gonna get a lot darker.Unfortunately White has a rep for having his women either evil or stupid and so far this seems to be the case.
(Oh, sorry, I just checked, one half of my family is Scottish so it turns out that isn't okay either.)So to sum up, I'm looking forward to things getting nastier, darker, more misogynistic and racist towards those of the Gaelic persuasion - but written extremely well, with hopefully some nice nature scenes, before a bunny gets it.
First of all, I think we now know why unicorns are no longer with us and it ain't pretty.
Getting your head around the history was hard since I only know a little about England history and the legend of Arthur but it is explained thoroughly so as long as you pay attention it is not lost on you.
Pellinore and the Questing Beast reappear with some Knights for some lightheartedness which was enjoyable as the story shifts focus from Arthur, to the Knights and the opposing army.
Hopefully the story will continue in the same way in next book because it is a really interesting legend.

In this second part of The Once and Future King not much happens really. It mainly tells some of the information you need to have to understand some of the things happening later. The Sword in the Stones sometimes had its lengths but overall the humour dominant. This book still often is humorous but some parts of it just annoyed and bored, especially King Pellinore's Quest. It was funny in the first book but now things were repeating themselves.
tape to mp3 conversion Read by Alexander Scorby.#49 TBR Busting 2013"In tragedy, innocence is not enough.Excellent.
The creepiest, most tragic, and in some ways the saddest of all the parts of The Once and Future King, this title refers to the rare freestanding edition of part two, which is a good deal longer than "The Queen of Air and Darkness," the shorter version which appears in the one volume edition of White's epic. It is a bit like Lord of the Flies meets Arthurian legend.
White is simultaneously so delightful and so frustrating. He introduces fabulous people and concepts and then completely abandons them, or just mentions their outcome in passing later while spending chapter upon chapter on anecdotal stories about minor characters. I feel like he's doing it on purpose to upset me. He probably is. It's fine. This series is still a work of genius.
Such a difference from the book later included in The Once and Future King! Difficult to read at times, and not particularly well-structured. The edited version for the complete edition is much better, even if it cuts out half of the plot of this one!
Hard to rate this one. I still enjoyed the writing but the story was so dark compared to the Sword and the Stone.
與第一冊的《永恆之王︰石中劍》那厚達三百頁的篇幅不同，這部懷特版的《亞瑟王傳奇》第二冊，故事時間已經讓主角成為年輕登基的英格蘭國王，進行他最重要的「王位保衛戰」︰在畢德格連與北方十一國王聯盟進行一場會戰。不過，本書有另一半的篇幅，則是交雜著安排，讓佩林諾國王和另兩位同伴，在法蘭德斯與蘇格蘭等地，進行一場場胡鬧搞笑的冒險。　我在閱讀第一冊時，還在懷疑作者如何安排亞瑟家族那亂七八糟的婚配關係，因為第一冊完全是寫給小孩子看的童書。不過看完了這第二冊，才發覺我自己是「多慮」了。懷特一開始便藉由「加文」四兄弟的對話，直接將烏瑟搶人老婆的事情講出來了；最末一章，也直接安排讓亞瑟受到誘惑，和他的異父姊「摩高絲王后」同床（即將生下未來的大魔王……）。雖然很慶幸作者沒有避諱這個成人主題，但總擔心若有兒童開開心心地看了第一冊之後，見到這續集後是否會產生心靈扭曲呢？　本書的兩條故事線，先不論那條用來開心的「愉快的佩林諾國王與他的夥伴的冒險」，比較嚴肅的「亞瑟戰爭」題材，作者在遵循傳統的敘述上，也加入了不少「新意」。首先，懷特推翻一般的學術領域，直接把「烏瑟–亞瑟」的這條王族，設定成為「威廉入侵」之後的「諾曼人」了。這麼一來，懷特版的亞瑟王故事，一下子便延後了五百年。但這麼一來的好處，則是可在書中介紹英國的諸民族源流，並闡述作者對於民族意識與戰爭的想法。　此外，本書關於戰爭進行的部分，作者也好好地幫我們「複習」了歐洲中古騎士之間的戰爭進行方式︰步兵是一般人民，騎兵是貴族。貴族之間，並沒有想在戰場上殺得你死我活的需要，擄獲之後要求贖金是一筆好生意。所以《空暗女王》中的亞瑟，則是實施了「戰爭」的復古概念︰直接殺掉對方的騎兵／貴族／統治者，不再拘泥於長久封建的治理方式。所以這正是他在這場戰役中能夠大勝的主要原因之一（另一原因，是他擁有法國的援軍）。　總體說來，和前一冊比起來，我比較喜歡《空暗女王》的故事。當我們無法適應於《亞瑟之死》那繁雜零散的故事閱讀時，懷特的這個版本，確實可讓我們立刻進入並熟悉這段傳奇。
Not quite on par with the first book.
This one felt a little disjointed, with some chapters fluctuating in tone in a jarring way.
Some episodes were difficult to read (view spoiler)[(i.e., the cat boiling and unicorn slaughtering scenes) (hide spoiler)] with respect to my squeamishness, but there were some very funny parts as well.
I can see that the book was necessary to set up the second half of the larger work of The Once and Future King, but I wonder if it could have been done with a little more of the artfulness that filled The Sword in the Stone.
Less whimsical, though still kinda. The Round Table is founded and King Arthur is trying his best to get chivalry to take off. Up until this point, the world had been a Conan the Barbarian situation, with might making right. Arthur is trying to socially engineer a new way of thinking where all these warriors devote their energy to defense of the weak and righting wrongs, rather than just fighting in the woods to prove who's better at fighting in the woods. At this stage, the results are still mixed.
In many ways, I liked this book better than The Sword in the Stone. The interludes with King Pellinore and the Questing Beast were silly but faster paced than the "Arthur is an animal again" sections of the first book. Arthur, now king, starts to ask some harder questions of Merlyn and is trying to figure out what it means to be a good king, not just the same kind of king that Uther Pendragon was before him.
Ok, so while it was not as good as the first book of the five part series it was still a fantastic and fun read. It’s a quick 100 pages, but got a bit dragged down with scenes we really don’t need and dialogue that, unless you know your old English and dialects of upper Great Britain, may throw you off, or at least have you running for a dictionary. Still, the series stands up brilliantly and the next three books are bound to excite and make me cringe with sadness and heartbreak. Yay!
A bloody children's book? I was expecting King Arthur and the Knights, not Monty Python and the Holy Grail. Absolute rubbish--including the two nuts running around as a horse. I thoroughly hated this book and will not even read it to my kids. The Chronicles of Prydain is a real story, unlike this garbage. Waste of time, waste of money.
This book was sadder and darker in tone than The Sword in the Stone, in part due to the subject matter. Parts of it made me feel as if I were reading a Stephen King novel. Other parts were as sweet and enjoyable as The Sword in the Stone. A bit of a strange mix.
4.5 stars.
