https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/759945.The_Magic_of_Thinking_Big
An inspiring book that will teach you to think beyond the mundane, every day, status quo. The enemy we call "average" threatens to take away the hopes, dreams, and meaning in our lives. Strive for excellence in everything you do. If you want something you've never had, you'll have to do something you've never done.
I know several people who feel that this book has changed their lives. I'm not certain I can make that claim for myself, but this was the first time I'd heard of the three failure diseases: Procrastonation, Excuse-itis and detail-itis. I think at some time or another, I was guilty of all three. Now I tend to catch mysef in the midst of them and think "a-ha! Stop that."
This book changed the way I look at the world, and will remain a powerful reminder of the great things that can be accomplished with the right attitude.
Don’t suffer from fear is another mantra the author discusses which is I believe is a common feeling we all have when it comes to our ability to try new things.
When we confront our fear head-on the more likely we will gain confidence in ourselves to tackle similar situations in the future.What I would say which I feel the author doesn’t express is that as humans we have the tendency to set our expectations to high and when things don’t pan out the way we expected them to we can get disillusioned and often depressed.
I have to admit, I have read this book about 8 times.
I make it a goal to read this book every six months because of the powerful influences that come from Dr. Schwartz.
I read this book initially in 1999 and was taken aback by how powerful the thinking process is.
As a result of applying the book, I was able to get a better job, attain certifications in my field (Computers), buy a house and feel much better about myself.
While the book was written some 30+ years ago, the concepts are still relevant, and the stories hold true today.Put this book at the top of your must read list!!!Brady Bunte
I came away from this self-help book with a few useful/helpful tidbits, namely in the "stay positive," "love what you do" and "work hard" categories.
However, as helpful as the book was in the 1960s for millions of people, I don't think I represent its ideal audience.
Because, in order to truly glean more than just a few tidbits of advice from this book, I imagine you would have to subscribe to the thinking that "success" and its cousin, "happiness," are defined the way Dr. Schwartz defines it: having lots (and lots) of respect, lots of control, and therefore gaining lots of money.
I'm a Yorkshireman — from the north of England — we subsist on a steady diet of tea and disappointment. This book contains good advice but as a grumpy northerner I still found it annoying.You can buy the book here.
.بهترین کتابیه که تا به حال در زمینه موفقیت خوندم. مخصوصا به خاطر توجه به موضوع اعتماد به نفس و ارائه راهکارهای عملی
I got the recommendation for this book from Anthony Robins in his famous book (Awaken Your Giant Within) , and he quoted lots of sayings and mentioned them in his book .. Then I decided to read it as soon as I could .. Although, it's shorter than Robins's book but really it's an amazing book, full of essential concepts and secrets .. I recommend everybody to read it deeply and apply it's concepts
I don't really like self help books, but this was a really good book. Simple, quick read, and actually had intelligent content. I would recommend this book to anyone, but if you like self help books, then this is a must read.
I read this book many years ago. It changed my life. So, I picked up a Kindle edition and took another tour through its pages. It's still a game changer. I'm surprised at two things: 1) how many principles taught in this book that I've forgotten over the years, and 2) how some of my fundamental characteristics, things that are deeply ingrained in me, were rooted in this book from my first reading all those years ago. This book is now going on my annual rotation list.
“Think Big and you’ll live big.
You’ll live big in happiness.
You’ll live big in accomplishment.
Big in respect… Start now, right now, to discover how to make your thinking make magic for you.
You take a big step forward toward conquering your fear when you refuse to remember negative, self deprecating thoughts.”~ David J.
Believe Big - If you want to think big.2.
Memory Bank Deposits - Make good ones!I PROMISE you that if you get in the habit of asking and answering that question with positive action, we’ll all hear about you and your big dreams and big life.
On the one hand, this book had some good advice about things like thinking positive, treating people well and setting a good example.
On the other hand, the author's misogynistic views on women is prevalent throughout the book and is really a sign of when this book was written (the 1950s).
I'd like to think that since they are still publishing this book that they would update it every now and then to make it more relevant to the times, but if they have, they haven't changed the way women are discussed at all.Also, I really didn't expect the book to have a surprise twist at the end.
This one of the first books I read in my life and it is very good if you like to learn how to do a business in any kind shape or form.I love the way it is written and it sure helped me a lot.So if you like to succeed with a business this may give you some hints.
There is a plethora of such books, which promise to help a person overcome the tough situations in life and sail through smoothly.
Especially in our modern times, where publishing a book has become as easy as ordering a product online, there is a rise in the number of authors who promise to improve your life by offering some quick-fix solutions for your troubles.
This book does not ask you to write some self-assuring line for 100 times daily.
There is no peppering of quotes from ancient philosophers and certainly no repetition of platitudes as many popular modern-day authors wont to do.If you would want to read only one book of the personal development genre ever, choose this one.
قرأت الكتاب من فترة وهو كتاب جيد ولكنه يغفل الإيمان تماماً ...
يجعل الإنسان عبارة عن آله مفكرة على الرغم من ان أول فصل يتحدث عن إيمانك بقدراتكيعطيك كثير من الأفكار عن أساليب التفكير وأهمية التفكير الإيجابيولكنه يغفل تماماً باقى كيان الإنسان الكتاب من منظور عملى جيد ..
buku ini aku baca saat aku mengalami kegagalan pada 1986.
buku ini pula yang membangkitkan aku dari kegagalan itu.
aku sangat berterima kasih dengan penulis buku ini.
karena begitu membantu aku bangun dari keterpurukanku.
untung aku lari ke buku, bukan ke narkoba.
ah, ternyata buku juga sama dengan narkoba.
sekarang aku kecanduan buku.
bahkan, ketika stress saat mahasiswa dulu, saat tugas menumpuk, aku baca juga buku stensilan.
ah, aku memang parah!!!btw, buku berpikir dan berjiwa besar ini asyik banget.
buku ini bukan untuk orang sukses, tapi justru untuk orang yang sedang stress karena nggak tahu hidup mesti ngapain.
This is one of my favorite books of its' kind. David J. Schwartz teaches that if we can conceive it; then we can believe it, and if we can believe it; we can achieve it.He goes into detail on how to create the correct mindset for success.I highly recommend this book to all.Enjoy and Be Blessed.
كتاب قيم جدا برسالة واضحة وأسلوب بسيط في تطوير الذات يناسب شريحة كبيرة من الاعمار . لكن سيكون الأثر الأكبر في المراهقين ومابعدها من مراحل عمرية .
According to my Dad, this book would give me great principles on how to be successful in life.
Along with that, Dr. Schwartz makes it interesting to read about the success principles.So, what is The Magic of Thinking Big about?
Some of these life lessons include dreaming creatively, using goals to promote growth, and thinking like a leader; and within The Magic of Thinking Big, Dr. Schwartz uses real life people in relation to these principles.
Throughout The Magic of Thinking Big, Dr. Schwartz provides real-life examples of how people succeeded by using the discussed principle.
They needed a kick in the pants to stop thinking negatively.
And the (white) guy who wanted to succeed big could rise above the masses by being a go-getter.
As such, the basic assumptions of "Thinking Big" (do a good job and you will be rewarded ...) cease to be a reliable norm.
For people who want to rise above "average" without being corrupt, I think something like "Mastery" might be more useful nowadays.
So for people who would not read a "psych" book but want a mental boost, I could see how Dr. Schwartz could be very helpful.
I am not an intense fan of self-help and motivational literature, but do read a title or two now and then.
The fact is that so far no book of this kind has proven to be as effective with me as this one.
This is the kind of title where you read things you already know, you are after all mostly just looking for motivation.
The truth is that I don't care about that, because it has proven very effective.If you are looking for something to motivate you (in any area), I suggest you try this title first.
To tell you that whatever you think of in your mind will become reality whether it would be positive or negative thoughts.
Whatever is said here conforms with whatever you may have read or heard elsewhere.
While the book is great, for me it resembled more of a literature review of the works I had read in the past.
The only fault is that this book was recommended to me after I had read much more in this field and thus failed to astonish me in the way I would have been had I read it before anything else.
This is a good book only if you read it to yourself in the voice of a 1950s tv announcer.
First published in 1959, this book is chock full of sound advice for the young gentleman looking to get ahead, acquire the secrets of success, make more money for his family, think like a leader, etc.
Each chapter is an examination of a different successories-style motivational lecture: Believe You Can Succeed and You Will, Cure Yourself of Excusitis - the Failure Disease, You Are What You Think You Are, and many more.
Who wants to be more succesful in their lives???Who feels like they can do better but don't know how to do it???C'mon, people... just read it...It's a must read book, and trust me when I say it's going to help you...It helped me a lot
First published in 1959,  The Magic of Thinking Big  is one of the most influential self-help books of all-times. The writer provides schemes and strategies for visualizing yourself achieving your goals. Things I have learned from this book:♦ To "think confidently, act confidently" practice the following exercises:1. Be a front seater 2. Practice making eye contact 3. Walk 25 percent faster 4. Practice speaking up5. Smile Big♦ "There’s nothing magical nor mystical about the power of belief.Beli
The Magic of Thinking Big
Things I have learned from this book:♦ To "think confidently, act confidently" practice the following exercises:1.
Practice making eye contact 3.
Practice speaking up5.
Smile Big♦ "There’s nothing magical nor mystical about the power of belief.Belief works this way.
When you believe “I-can-do-it, the how-to-do-it” develops."♦ "The "Okay-I-will-give-it-a-try-but-I-don’t-think-it-will-work-attitude” produces failure." ♦ "Think doubt and failThink victory and succeed"♦ "Respect the leader, learn, observe and study him but don’t worship him.
Believe that you can surpass."♦ "Most of us make two basic errors with respect to intelligence ~ We underestimate our own brain power, and ~ We overestimate the other fellow's brain power."
The Chicago Tribune asked all the local primary candidates what their favorite book was.
The right wingers were typically imaginative in their selection of "The Bible." The tea party candidate, Adam Andrejewski, chose this book which intrigued me.
Here's the points I really liked about it.1) It asked you to think of your most successful friends and your most unsuccessful ones and deconstruct why they are that way.
The book's deconstruction method is a little vague but the answer is attitude, optimism and most importantly the power to "think big".2) When bogged down in life's problems a quick fix is to ask whether addressing this particular problem is "Thinking Big".
It's amazing how a person's thinking is always in the process of becoming small and marginalizing itself.
This is a must read for anyone wanting to increase their thinking and pull the weeds out of their life.[The second time reading this book was very helpful.
When your thinking starts to focus on the small things in life, you need to read this book to help you focus on the BIG things that will take you to a more successful life.Not only can this book inspire you to think bigger, but it also presents concrete strategies to achieve your big goals.A must read...
This was a top book in four hour workweek and the title seems relevant to my career trajectory. I just picked this book up again. The first 200 pages were ok, but the last 100 were solid. Its a lot about setting goals, taking action and dreaming big. Some really great comments about how to react to adversity and stay focused on your goal. A worthwhile read.
ayoo kita berpikir besar,, karena segala sesuatu berasal dari pikiran kita.. Kenapa harus takut berpikir besar... kita UNLIMITED looo,,,jadi manfaatkan untuk berpikir lebih,,lebih dan lebih...Pikiran kita milik kita sendiri!! jangan menyamakannya dengan orang lain..:D
