https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21449526-assuming-names
The reviewers are unaware the author’s story is backed up by the media.
Big media, like the Dallas Herald, Woman’s World Magazine, the Statesmans, and the giant old elephant in the room, the Associated Press.
You ask, “Really?” and the media answers, “Yes, really.” Yes really, a fifteen year old girl went and pulled a jaw dropping long con that should earn her some sort of recognition in Wikipedia’s list of famous impostors.
Not every single word she writes is repeated by the media, but the big stuff is.
You ask, “Really?” and the media answers, “Yes, really.”
Ms. Thompson answered my questions with one word: “Fifteen.” That sums up every question, disbelief, head-shaking moment in this book.
And it sums those moments up perfectly.Assuming Names takes the reader on one wild ride.
A ride that will keep you glued to the book until you read the last page.Would I recommend it: Yes, I would.Will I read it again: I doubt it, but I am looking forward to reading Ms. Thompson’s future books.(I received a copy of this book for review purposes.
Although I was compensated for the editing work, it in no way affected the outcome of my review.
My review is my honest opinion of the book.)http://everyfreechance.com/2014/03/re...
This seems the place to share Postal prints. My favourite photographer hangs in the White Gallery. He’s got a way of capturing the essence of things and what he’s captured here is Tanya’s most mischievous personality. It comes through in the book just as vivid as it does in the image. Love the picture and love the book. Both are just so much fun!
On one hand, I felt Tanya was smart with the cons she kept playing and on the other hand, I was sure she was an empty mind's curse.I found the journey fascinating at some points.
I was carried along in her journey to Dallas and I did wonder why she would go there and why she did what she did.I was a little thrown off by how the book ends.
I did really expect it to be much more different.I felt the rush of a con while I was reading about it and often tried to extrapolate Tanya's feelings about how it would feel to be pretending to be someone else.
Mind blown.This book is crazy.At first I wasn't sure if the author was "the Countess" or maybe she was writing on behalf of the real woman. But by the end, I was sure that the author is "Tanya" or whatever her real name is. It's almost hard to believe all of the things that she went through and all of the things that she did. But you have to believe them because there is evidence supporting it.
Interesting that just about everyone who reviewed this book did so on March 14, 16, 18th or 21st.
And they all wrote the SAME reviews on Amazon.
My guess is that maybe two of these are actually real reviews..the others sound way too much alike.
Numerous people claim they went to the library and read the microfilms...really?
That's funny because there are almost NO libraries that even have microfilms anymore.
Other reviewers urge you to go to the author's website and check the newspaper clippings-interesting phrase for so many people to use since the articles weren't actually clipped.
I read the excerpt of this book and my brainmeats said, wait, WHAT?
Born and raised in Dallas, and only 9 years younger than the author, I was intrigued more than I can describe.
The Dallas Tanya describes in this book is two blocks from the streets I was willing to walk down.
It's as if she gives us credit for being a little smarter because we are reading her book.
I can't say I always see myself in the character of a book, but in this I did.
Assuming Names by Tanya ThompsonLet us start off by saying that I love this book.
It was overall very well written and extremely entertaining.
Meet fifteen year old Tanya, who has the same issue as many teenagers.
But, Tanya has some interesting coping abilities, which lead to quite a few adventures that most teenagers will only ever read about.
As far as writing technique goes, I was extremely pleased.
My Recommendation:I absolutely loved this book.
I highly recommend anyone looking for an amusing and enjoyable read.
My rating: I give this book four stars, due to some of the confusion.
Governments, police organizations, organized crime, civil rights orgs, Hollywood, I mean there is a trail of hooks that caught everyone.Smuggling, sex slavery, and the fascinating thing about this is that the story comes across as really quite amusing.
I guess all I can say is that certain auras and atmospheres surround different people differently, and sometimes things can come together in such a way as to make of it, what such does with all good stories, into a kind of Legend.Now, there is some violence in here, but there would almost have to be with all of the 'actors' that cross Tanya Thompson's stage-- but for all that, it really is not all nasty gloom, though there is darkness.
Thompson excels at writing a character with shades of grey, rather than strict blacks and whites.
Not so much corrupt as mischievous, the Countess is a persona that is interesting to see evolve, even as she unravels.There are countless times when you read this story, and all the times that "Constance" is duping one official after another that you wonder if Thompson is actually getting the better of you as well.
Is this actually something that happened?
One thing's for sure: Tanya tells a story and she sticks to it.
And besides, its all too crazy to be anything but true.Looking forward to reading the sequel.
I see there is going to be two more books, and I am kinda curious to read those as well.
I only have one real issue with the book, I don't believe it is true.
Like I said I went to the website and read the newspaper stuff, but I still just don't believe it.
I am sure parts of it are true, but like everyone else in the story, I just don't believe it.I also think every character in the story knows she is lying, they just don't know what to do with her.
I enjoyed the book enough to want to read the second one.
This book is like nothing I've ever read before!
I can see a lot of people out here who seem to question the legibility of this 'true story' but that's the beauty of it.
This story has plenty of sudden twists and turns that will keep you hooked onto it until the very last page.
I like that the author provides plenty of proof that this is indeed a real story by attaching legible newspaper and magazine articles that can be cross-checked as well.I love the author's creativity and idea of writing this story.
I would recommend this book to any fan of the Crime/Suspense genre.
A vivid visualization of the protagonists and antagonists characters of the story.
An experience which made me felt as if ‘I was there.’ Besides the interesting true-to-life story, all I can say about this eBook is it's ‘an eye opener.’ I don't really like to read 'true crime stories’ but at the moment I opened this eBook on my electronic reader and started reading, it driven my thoughts to go on and browse to read it bit-by-bit of every pages.
In fact, I read it again twice before I've written my thoughts about it.
From now on, I will read ‘true crime.’
“Assuming Names” is a highly entertaining book that is filled to the brim with thrilling and unbelievable stories.
At times I forgot I was reading non-fiction.
I was quickly swept into the wild and fast pace story of the 15 year old con-artist.
Even with this failure, she still managed to fool several government organizations, and also the mafia, into believing her far-fetched and on-the-fly stories.
The things that this woman did and got away with are baffling.
There are a few things I wish I knew more about but was still glad to have read this book.
This is an incredible, on the edge of your seat story.
I have to admit, I am usually not one that is interested in reading true crime, simply because it is usually so depressing, but I found that after I began reading this book, it was difficult to remember that it was a true story.
I found it not only entertaining, but I could not put the book down.
The fact that this is a true story, makes it that much more impressive.
I really enjoyed the fact that this is a true story with plenty of evidence to support it such as newspaper articles.
When you finish reading this book, the author gives you links to all the articles to prove that this book is a true story.
This book is very entertaining and keeps you reading to learn more about what happened.
I agree with another review I read about this book, it is like the movie Catch Me If You Can. This story is just as enjoyable as that movie.
I recommend this book to everyone out there that love true stories and mysteries.
Loved this book, love Tanya. Couldn't put it down. I am curious if she ever served jail time for any of the crimes mentioned in the book.
Throughout this book, you learn in the background while gaining access to the views of a mischievous con artist, liar, thief and an absolute fearless individual.Both the mood and setting was written in details, bringing me back in time, making me feel like I was there, eye witnessing all the events described.
I honestly can’t believe that this is all coming from a 15-year-old, amazing to learn that life experiences have no age ranges.There were moments where I found myself a bit amused with some of the settings, while other times fearful of the character.
Assuming Names is an interesting and rather peculiar book that had me shaking my head with disbelief at some places and made me laugh out loud at others.
If it’s all true, then wow, congratulations to the author, you’ve earned my respect.
If it’s not – I still very much liked the story of Tanya, the Countess of Conland.
I think it would be interesting to see what her adventures will be in the next book.I would recommend it to anyone who has interest in true crime stories and wants to spend some very entertaining hours reading it.
This Book was so utterly amazing and underrated. I personally can't understand why it isn't being advertised on a national scale; it's better than any of these book being shoved down our throats. I love this book and it is being carefully placed in my topped five.
The moment I started thinking, no way this could be true, I went and read the proof that it was.
I was reading the part about her at the local sheriff’s department and I did not believe a 15 year old girl could so effortlessly lie and charm her way out of arrest.
It is from there I quote “Mind equals blown.”I was nothing like Tanya when I was 15.
Tanya is an old school con artist, one who relies on charm and wit, but she’s also fond of white collar financial crimes, stolen cars and car chases.
They will have to decide for themselves if the story is indeed fact or a clever play on the con contained in the tale.Pleasantly, the author surprised me with a well-written, carefully composed narrative that is so rare to find in today's world of "easy" publication options.
Once she have given those to the reader, it is easy then to let go and fully enjoy the story without any annoying mistakes.Thompson represents that rare combination of talent for story-telling and dedication to craft.
Put Tanya Thompson on your must-read list and be on the lookout for more works by this intriguing and talented artist.
My first thought when I read that was “huh… they really do look awfully similar to a Tic-Tac.”In this book were a lot of little phrases that stuck in my mind.
Not only were there phrases that stuck, but there were extravagantly long, breathless sentences that were designed to impress.
I like it when a book makes you stop to reread a sentence simply to appreciate it.
It’s in the mind-blowing audacity of its author.
You won’t be bored while reading it, that’s for sure.
You may be dismayed, but you won’t be bored.

Before reading this book, I had very high expectations from reading the reviews on this website. Once I began reading, I soon realized the book would not live up to these standards. The books is quite poorly written, jumping around and leaving many strange gaps for the reader. The grammatical errors are plenty and the author develops herself as an extremely unlikable character. Hopefully seasoned readers will not be mislead by the reviews on this book by this website.
This girl is crazy. I'm not giving it 5 stars because her schemes are not as mind-bendingly intelligent as those in "Catch Me if You Can," and that was what I was expecting, but it was still a very interesting book.
The basic premise of the book is that a young con artist is doing what she does best, and better than anyone could have ever expected.
I read on the description that this is a "true story", but the further I went along, and the crazier everything was, I kept thinking, "Okay, is that like when the opening scene of Fargo says it's a true story, but it's really not?" Apparently this is the truth, however, which makes it both more entertaining, and more alarming to consider it actually happened.Overall, I enjoyed it very much, but there was something that was keeping me from loving it.
To like the main character of a book so much, that you don't want the book to end, but at the same time, you can't wait to see what happens next?
I had only two times before Tanya, her heroin became a kind of a friend to me, and now that the book is read, I will miss her a bit...To put it short, the book is amazing.
it made me think about my own life and what I am missing in it.I thank the author for this book, and will be waiting for the next one :)
Overall a good read.
Thinking back after I read it, they're times in the book when I question if she is manipulating the reader as well.
One I can recall is when she is met the 2 Eastern Europeans and Sergu at the airport and was showing them guns.
Also, she says that she got homesick when she was in Dallas, convienetly after Sergu put the gun to her head.
I'm thinking she was scared for her life at that point, even though she acts like she wasn't.
IDK maybe I am over thinking it but to me that's what it seemed like.
Great read overall.
Sadly, I didn’t have the opportunity to get my copy of this book free on what sounds like the greatest book tour to ever roll through Europe.
I didn’t get to meet the author in a bar, on a train, or in the company of the “shady shades,” so my review isn’t tainted by her charms or what sounded like ecstasy.
The book is fun, exciting, thrilling, scary, dark, and irreverent - I think this is what the other reviews also said about Tanya when they met her.I am envious.
