https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/456028.Red
I enjoyed Black: The Birth of Evil more than this one, but towards the end of Red: The Heroic Rescue I became emotionally involved in the story. So while the overall entertainment was slightly less in this installment, it got me really invested in the story and the characters. I’m excited to continue the series and see where this all goes.
(So it took me a long time to read this but after A Time To Rise, I had this temporary reading slump) Wow.There were tons of twists that made me put the book done and just stare.It connected so well. CANT WAIT FOR WHITE
The thrill ride continues...
Then you will know what I'm talking about.)In Other Earth, Thomas leads the Forest Dwellers against the evil desert-dwelling Horde who forsook Elyon's (God's) love.
The Forest Dwellers think this is blasphemy and wish to put him to death.
Far out!" But Thomas is as blind as the rest of the Forest Dwellers and even has a duel against Justin.
(Guess who loses.)Anyway, those of you who know what happened to Jesus can probably guess what happens to Justin, only I think that Christ had the easier way out than Justin does.
Just like the Forest Dwellers thought that Justin was nuts.
His sister lets him sleep, though, for now.In another reality, Thomas rides a black steed over a sandy valley, leading his Forest Guard to war against the Horde.
But to defeat the Horde he needs an explosive, something he can only get by going to sleep.He wakes in Bangkok to find a gun pressed to his temple, thus Thomas enters back into his bizarre dual reality, hoping to save two worlds from destruction.
As the terrorists demand the world surrender their nuclear weapons in exchange for the antivirus, Thomas Hunter works with the United States government to try to prevent the end of the world, and when he sleeps, Thomas is trying to save his people from an equally devastating crisis with the Horde.
This had less a fantasy feel to it (no talking bats!) than the first book.
The same questions of how is Thomas living in what appears to be two realities intensifies.
That is a long time fo r a mind to mature and change.
And when he isn't the only one 'travelling/dreaming' the story intensifies.
THe horde and Thomas' behavoior and hated toward them was frustrating at times.
No one should hate anyone just for a different lifestyle or belief.
Hating their symptom and frustrated at their choice is fine but being okay with even killing kids really bothered me.
I have a friend who loves these books and I hate that I rated it so low.
The book is based on a fairly original idea.
It makes some good points at times.
I am a Christian and I know this trilogy is much loved by some people and I have no problem with it's underlying message or any point it tries to make.
I wanted to like it.
But as a novel it just isn't that good (at least in my opinion)and it completely failed to draw me in.
I say this, and I love fantasy.
I wish I could like this/these more.
Author Ted Dekker offers an interesting premise in his Circle Trilogy (Black/Red/White) -- that a man can alternate between the present and the future through his dreams and influence one reality by his actions in the other.
It's smart writing with undertones that make you think.The story is a bit melodramatic at times and lags in places, and it's difficult to keep the multitude of characters straight because some lack depth or disappear and reappear at different points in the trilogy.
I gave the first two books, Black and Red, four stars primarily because at times they leave the reader confused about names, places, events, and how they relate to the Biblical allegory.
I loved "Black" the first book in the circle trilogy but I was blown away by "Red" the second in the series. I truly enjoyed reading this one. Red moves the story very quickly forward towards the inevitable but it is an adventure that is filled with love, faith, atonement, and spirituality. This epic adventure leads you to look inward at yourself and to draw many parallel conclusions. Red is the rare case where the sequel is better than the first. I really recommend this series for all fiction readers, not just those that love the fantasy genre.
Again I really enjoyed this. Stronger allegorical messages than Black by quite a long way, but I was pleasantly surprised by the fact that I still enjoyed the story and the characterisation. I'm intrigued to see how the plot line in this world (Bangkok) straightens out, or if it does, in the next book. I found that story line the easier of the 2 to get involved with.
Fast paced with danger lurking in both realities, Dekker continues to deliver an exciting read with much to ponder.
Those who oppose him want him dead and want his dreams to stop but others who love life have nothing left but the hope that he can save them - easier said than done, Ted Dekker likes to swing his heroes and foes as deep as his mind allows, and this is one hairy book, it takes a lot of sweat and guts to take this ride.In the dream world those who rejected Elyon's waters have turned to Desert Dwellers known as Scabs, dry and disease stricken nomads, their minds and eyes are ashen with sickness and visions of death and conquests, the worship Teeleh and the Shataiki and will stop at nothing until the remaining forests and their people are destroyed.
His sister lets him sleep, though, for now.In another reality, Thomas rides a black steed over a sandy valley, leading his Forest Guard to war against the Horde.
But to defeat the Horde he needs an explosive, something he can only get by going to sleep.He wakes in Bangkok to find a gun pressed to his temple, thus Thomas enters back into his bizarre dual reality, hoping to save two worlds from destruction.
As the terrorists demand the world surrender their nuclear weapons in exchange for the antivirus, Thomas Hunter works with the United States government to try to prevent the end of the world, and when he sleeps, Thomas is trying to save his people from an equally devastating crisis with the Horde.
Dekker's strength is suspense; he kept me wanting to know what happened enough to read the whole series (Black, Red, White, Green) pretty quickly (~1600 pages).
He isn't a very good writer, his plots are predictable, the Christian imagery is a bit heavy-handed (extremely so at times), and aspects of the story went beyond my suspension of disbelief.
However, Dekker's themes are heavy enough and his underlying theology strong enough that portions of the series could spark serious discussion if used in the right way.
It is one of Dekker's goals to retell that greatest of stories in all his books, and this he does consistently.
I enjoyed the actions that were happening in the real world.....our world I would say cos we don't know very much which of the world is real.
The other-worldly forests of Elyon and the deserts of Teelah and the scabs started out a little bit unexciting but later picked up momentum and climaxed into a very gripping allegory of the biblical story of redemption.
Thomas of hunter, who was supposed to be alert, wielding weapons and slashing scabs to death on the battlefront was rather desiring to be knocked to sleep while the battle was still raging.
I love Biblical analogy books or even good vs evil and this series was brilliantly set up. I usually don't go for fantasy but I love that world in this series as much as the "realistic" world. Read it if you don't know what I'm talking about. ;-)
Enough with the cliff hangers... With that out of the way, I can say this is a good book. Red is better than it's predecessor. It's an easy read and flows nicely. Except for the cliffhanger, the issues I had in book one don't exist in book two. Time to start book three.
Unfortunately, that happened far too many times in this story, the second in a trilogy, wherein our hero spends time between two very different worlds every time he goes to sleep.First of all, (view spoiler)[ creating black powder as an explosive (all the way from exploring, mining, distillation and refinement of all the raw materials!) in a couple hour period while a horde of 10,000 warriors waits at the bottom of a canyon under tons of rock surfaces, which are conveniently looming, yet fragile enough to be dislodged by a couple dozen packed black powder bombs?
You have the innocent man dying [the only innocent man on the planet] for the sins of everybody so that everybody might truly live and be free from the evil/wickedness inside.It was also interesting to read about how the ones that the boy saved from the first book became legalistic over time and had become distracted from "The Great Romance." There were six to ten major laws about how to live out "The Great Romance," and yet, the Forest Dwellers felt the need to tack on numerous other laws to further spell out how to correctly "follow" "The Great Romance." This made the Great Romance a bunch of legalism that did little to change the hearts of the Forest Dwellers; actually, it made the Forest Dwellers more like the Desert Dwellers than they wanted to admit.
I enjoyed it. I really like how Thomas has grown and the plot was much thicker and I enjoyed the allegory much more. I'm going straight to reading White!
After the fall of man a sickness descended upon the dream world which can only be cured by ritual washing in special water created by Elyon.
Thomas is a leader of those who chose to remain under Elyon's blessing and wash in the waters and he leads a group of soldiers who fight against those cursed with the sickness - the Horde.
Here in Red romantic, political, mental and physical conflict exists in abundance and help carry the story to another level than in Black.
For this book is not just focussed on the renewal of humanity but is a renewal of the story begun in Black.
In Red, Dekker presents a very clear redemptive analogy in the more fantastic of the two worlds in this book.
Dekker goes so far as to have the "Jesus" character tell his followers that they are "cured" (ultimately) because they choose to obey him.
Also, Dekker's view on the bridegroom-bride relationship between Jesus and the church is rather simple and almost shallow.
Dekker only meets theology on a level that positively engages the emotions, going no further.However, this book is quite an emotional ride, and this is largely why I have enjoyed The Circle Series so far.
Dekker is a brilliant writer.
Seriden soğudum!-Kitap boyunca olayların nasıl gelişeceğini rahatlıkla tahmin edebiliyorsunuz; ama yazar sizi aptal yerine koyup olayları, diyalogları ve betimlemeleri gereksiz yere sakız gibi uzatıp tekrarlayarak sizi kitaptan soğutmayı başarıyor. -Ayrıca sürekli birileri başka birilerine bir şeyleri anlatmaya çalışıyor ama onlarca sayfa bu anlattıklarına inandırma çabalarıyla sürüp gidiyor. Ta ki uykunuz gelene kadar. Abartmıyorum; biri "Süt beyaz!" dese bile karşısındakini buna ikna etmek için onlarca sayfa dil döküyor:)- İşte, 600 sayfa böyle sürüp gidince, seriden soğumak da zor olmuyor. Seriye devam eder miyim bilmiyorum.NOT: Son iki hafta içinde okuduğum ve içinde darbe geçen 2. kitaptı bu. Bir türlü kurtulamıyorum şu darbeden.
I am addicted to this series!
I finished Red last night and already bought White.
Red continues with the story of Thomas who is "living" 2 lives - he goes between them when he sleeps and dreams.
One life is present day Earth which is battling a virus that is being released as an act of terrorism.
The other world is in the future.
Is it Earth after humanity dies from the virus?
Thomas is the main character in both "times" trying to save both worlds.
The series is continuous so you have to read it in order - Black, Red, White.
4.5Kırmızı'yı Siyah'tan daha çok sevdim, olaylar daha anlaşılır, karakterler oturmuş ve hikaye çok güzel bir kıvama gelmiş. Kitap çok sürükleyiciydi, hiç sıkılmadım okurken, Siyah'ta rüya alemini çok benimseyememiştim açıkçası ama bu kitapta öyle bir şey olmadı. İki realiteyi de severek okudum. Kitapta baştan sona tempo düşmüyor, sürekli yeni bir şey oluyor ve yeni şeyler açığa çıkıyor. Anlayacağınız tek düze ve sıkıcı olmaktan oldukça uzaktı. Kaos kitapta çok güzel yer alıyordu, yazar olayların dünyayı nasıl etkilediğini ve nelere yol açacağını çok güzel yazmış. Kitap güzel bitti, son sayfalar hem etkileyici hem de diğer kitaplar için vaat taşıyor. Daha fazlası için; http://yorumatolyesi.blogspot.com/201...
2nd book in the Circle Trilogy by Ted Dekker. It continues the epic saga of Thomas Hunter in a thrilling, but bloody, read. The allegorical undertones are more prevalent in this book, as Dekker makes the character representing Christ very evident. Of the 3 books in the trilogy, this one would be filled with the most action and battles. The romance aspect is not as emphasized as the 1st or 3rd books. After finishing this book, you will want to have the 3rd book (White) on-hand, so you can continue the journey uninterrupted. Dekker knows how to capture his readership!
This book blew me away. It wasn't that it was just better than Black, but it was genius. The Old Testament parallels were done so well, and then the gospel part of the New Testament was beautiful. It was even more thrilling than Black and I couldn't wait to get back into the book every time I put it down. So much better than Black, even though Black was also really good! Can't wait to start White!
If you've ever read LOTR ...this second in the series is a bit similar to the "Two Towers" book... a lot of epic battles and battle/fight strategy with a little bit of a love story thrown in the background. To me this was the most boring of the 3 books but Tom, Monique and Kara are great characters and it was worth continuing to see what happened to them.
Once again, loved the action, disliked the allegories, squirmed at the violence. All that drowning. Dekker was going for in-your-face uncomfortable and he got it.Kinda like The Passion Of The Christ by Mel Gibson.I've started the 3rd book in the series.
book 2 is more intense and more confusing but yet I kept reading it and looking forward to book 3. This book had quite the cliff hanger. I was yelling at the end.... and instantly started reading White.
