https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19220946-the-mah-circle
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.The Last Roman Dur: "The Mahé Circle" by Georges SimenonBack in the day I did a year of French.
You couldn’t be more wrong!
All she did was drill us on grammar, and I couldn’t even understand what she was saying half the time.
She just expected me to automatically know the language as if I’d already lived in France for years.
I was always procrastinating doing French stuff, and she was always expecting me to write and memorize a huge bunch of sentences in a language that I hardly knew, and then repeat it back to her.
With each return trip he seeks her out, and on each occasion she has, of course, grown older, more womanly; yet she is, on each occasion, still wearing the same dress.Throughout the novel Simenon makes use of a number of symbols, like the island of Porquerolles, which is a manifestation of Mahé’s increasingly dangerous, unconventional frame of mind.
It should be pointed out that Mahé doesn’t really want or value any of these things for themselves, that they exist as symbols for him too; he doesn’t love the island, he doesn’t love the girl either [although the word is used towards the end of the novel it doesn’t convince], he is simply drawn towards anything that isn’t representative of his awful, common life, anything that will or could break the circle that he feels is closing around him.
È un non luogo, o meglio il luogo delle vacanze, quello dove le relazioni sono tutte da costruire, gli abitanti da studiare nella loro quotidianità, l’essere un turista di passaggio un affare dalla grande delicatezza.
L’ambientazione è dunque la protagonista di questo scritto, fagocita il lettore e il dottore che, come tanti altri personaggi del belga, si specializza nell’evasione, nella fuga dalla propria famiglia, dal luogo natio, dalle certezze per, in sostanza, rigettare la propria identità, spesso artificiosa, precostituita e falsata da pressioni, oppressioni, incapacità di vivere o ancora prima di dare giusta lettura alla propria esistenza.
A Porquerolles, in un clima soffocante di una vacanza estiva, questo medico affermato e dalla vita ben impostata in società matura riflessioni che lo portano a capire cosa è stata la sua vita fino a quel momento: un prigioniero nella rete intessuta da sua madre, da quando è nato fino al matrimonio con Helène, scelta non per lui, “ma per se stessa”.
La sete di libertà dal vincolo familiare si incarna in una adolescente che incontra per caso in paese, solo intravista per strada, “un paio di gambe esili che spuntavano da un cencio rosso”: il romanzo racconta il conflitto interiore di quest’”uomo senza qualità” tra libertà e convenienza, tra le pulsioni dei sensi e il grigio scorrere delle giornate con madre e moglie che lo conducono per mano.
I really enjoyed The Mahé Circle, one of Georges Simenon's Roman Durs (hard novels), and which are very different to his more famous Maigret novels.
As the novel progresses he has the dawning realisation that he is living someone else's life and that he has never really made any decisions but just gone along with his mother's wishes.None of his family or friends could understand why Dr. Mahé continued to drag his family to Porquerolles each summer.
Georges Simenon's writing is crisp and vivid throughout, the recurring island setting conveys a wonderful sense of place.
I look forward to reading more of Georges Simenon's Roman Durs.4/5
OK technically not true but it's a novel that has never officially been translated in to English.
Sure the guy wrote something like 400 novels but that's no excuse to wait almost 70 years to translate one little piece of literature from one of the biggest selling authors of all time.
But then Simenon as pretty strict with how and when his work was translated by all accounts so perhaps this is one he was writing perhaps a little with the handbrake on?
A kind of midlife-crisis novel, from a prolific purveyor of the French hard-boiled genre, though the protagonist is actually younger than me for much of the story.
I can feel his ennui, sure, but aren't each of us responsible for carving some kind of meaning, purpose, or interest out of the lives we find ourselves in?
If our protagonist can't find any trace of those in his medical practice or family, then yes, things are clearly going wrong but surely there are other routes than alcoholism, arbitrary obsession, and a kind of petulant shapeless desire for escape.
But the carefully chosen words and settings are more similar to a play or poem, just not a commercially successful one in its overall darkness and confused thinking.The poor doctor simply went on the wrong vacation...?
We are introduced to this miserable man trying to catch fish just as his guide in the boat has been teaching him without success.
Utterly worn out."He is abruptly rescued from his fishing failures by a call for a doctor.
They had truly fixed a circle of stone round him, just like his dream.
Thoroughly enjoyed this short novel about one man's obsession with something barely seen and how he is inextricably and inexorably drawn into making decisions against his better nature. It's wonderfully underplayed and because of this it's eminently believable. The prose is succinct and occasionally illuminating. I gave it 4/5 initially but I've just upped a star because in typing this review I've realised there was nothing I could fault. Actually, it's quite wonderful.
A wretched, dismal little man freaks out when he figures out that his loving mother has engineered his entire comfortable existence, and proceeds to destroy everything out of some petty desire for "freedom."
Il dottor Francois Mahé, il protagonista, è un medico trentacinquenne grassoccio, stimato, banale, perbene, con una moglie insignificante che non ama e due figli che non sono al centro dei suoi pensieri.
Questa ragazzina diventa per Francois una vera insopprimibile ossessione di cui si vergogna e che tiene gelosamente nascosta a tutti e a lungo anche a se stesso.Fuori dal suo ambiente e dalle sue piccole incombenze quotidiane, Mahé si rende conto che la sua vita è frutto di scelte fatte sempre da altri.È per lei che, senza che nessuno lo immagini, torna ogni estate a Porquerolles.
THE MAHE CIRCLE.
Georges Simenon.
***.This was one of the author’s so-called ‘dur’ novels.
The plot was thin – much as if Simenon made it up as he went along.
There is no continuity.
From the back cover: “During his first holiday on the island of Porquerolles, Dr. Mahe caught a glimpse of something irresistible.
As the memory continues to haunt him, he falls prey to a delusion that may offer an escape from this conventional existence – or may destroy him…Simenon’s dark, malevolent depiction of an ordinary man trapped in mundanity and consumed by obsession.” The overall story is less than impressive.
First Simenon. Great stuff. Dark, pressing and obsessive. The opening chapter is a masterclass in establishing a character quickly and seeing the world from his perspective. The way Mahé glides through the entire scene, as if on rails, almost dreamlike, taking one inevitable step after another is very well crafted. Only a short little book but dense. I found myself taking it slowly, pondering the good doctor's slow mental disintegration.
This is a novel that priortises mood over incident reaction over action,a grimly satisfying tale of obsession and breakdown."A dark deep journey into the human soul. Very good.
La maestria con cui questo irriducibile misogino sa rappresentare la percezione delirante, l'ossessione paranoide e la scissione è sempre fonte di stupore.
Secondo libro di Simenon per me, è sempre un piacere ritrovare la sua scrittura ma la storia non mi ha fatto impazzire e sicuramente molto inferiore al "Il piccolo libraio di Archangelsk"
A doctor on holiday develops an obsession.Some of the writing / imagery was good, but overall I found this book a bit confusing.My rating is 2.5.
A few days ago I read John Banville's review in the NYRB about the recent translation of one of Simenon's romans dur.
My enthusiasm for this particular novel (first published in 1958) doesn't quite equal Banville's, but I appreciate his judgment, for which it's worth quoting the whole paragraph:The Mahé Circle is a sort of masterpiece; one says “sort of” because the book does not call itself to our attention in any purely literary way.
This novel, like most of the romans durs, reads like a piece of pulp fiction: it is brief, fast-paced, with an air of the slapdash that is, however, wholly deceptive.
I was reading A Moveable Feast and Hemingway mentions that he likes this writer. The next day at the library, I see a book by Simenon on the new books table. Quel surprise! This is a dark beach book where the characters only sunburn and never tan, the water is superbly and threateningly clear, and nightmares are common. Although French, it reminded me of The Awakening but told from the male perspective.
Quase um conto, a história não ocupa mais do que 120 páginas, -- traduzido por André Telles, e traz com ela o espírito de pós-guerra europeu, um mundo sem grandes esperanças, cinzento e amargo.
Um homem de espírito fraco, introvertido, que preenche o papel para o qual foi preparado e ordenado por sua mãe.Dr. Mahé constrói sistematicamente e sem entusiasmo uma clínica medianamente próspera, Parte deste sucesso inclui férias anuais para a família, na costa mediterrânea.
Chamado para atender uma mulher à beira da morte, Dr. Mahé se encanta com a filha desta paciente, meninota ainda, adolescente, que se transforma em mulher com a passagem dos anos e repetidas férias em Porquerolles.
Not the usual Inspector Maigret novels but something entirely different.
Dr Mahe has a mid life crisis and realises he is not happy with his regular predictable life.
On holiday on the island of Porquerolles he becomes obsessed with escaping his humdrum life.
The description of life on the island and at his home when he returns are excellent in the prose.
His mother is a great character with her quiet subtle control.
Essentially the Doctor is bored and wants to escape his routine life and responsibilities.
Gradually he sinks into alcoholism and makes a plan to escape.
This is an incredible little book.
I picked it up because I think that the Maigret books are great, and just wanted to see how Simenon approached a different theme.
What I got was an extraordinary account of a middle aged middle class nonentity, toiling under the strain of his own mundanity.
The main character is a doctor, and at times it is so uncomfortable to read that it as if Simenon has opened me up with a scalpel.
If anyone wants to know what it is to be a middle aged man they need look no further.
Belgium writer, Georges Simenon, describes one family's vacation in Porquerolles, after years of vacationing somewhere else. The Island atmosphere agrees with the father of the family and he dreams of buying a small medical practice from an aging doctor, but hesitates to inform his wife & children. The Island get away is repeated summer after summer while he gets up his nerve to do what he really wants with his life.
This could have been very up my street. However, I really didn't like how any of the women were described/spoken about and just in general, this novel was pretty boring. I very much doubt I'll be reading anything else from this author.
A psychological character study about one man's increasing dissatisfaction with his own carefully engineered life. This is subtle rather than explosive storytelling which just makes the unsettling feeling more intense and believable.
Dark but fascinating
Beautifully crafted
One of the romans durs. And very hard to rate. A long, long fuse..., but worth it. I adore Simenon...
Not a crime novel, but a novel of depression. Apparently depression is a pretty young girl in a red dress.
This is one of Simenon's romans durs, or psychological novels, and it very much resembles another of his books, "Monsieur Monde Vanishes." In both, a relatively nondescript individual finds himself so hemmed in by his boring life that he finds a way to circumvent or escape it.
As John Banville writes in his review of "The Mahé Circle" in The New York Review of Books, in "Monsieur Monde," "a successful, middle-aged Parisian businessman simply walks out of his life one day, without a word to anyone, including his wife and family.
