https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/339384.Character_Analysis
Don’t get me wrong, I think they are all brilliant, and I enjoy them all (with the exception of Led Zeppelin).
I would feel the same way about a book that excluded the male experience, as well.
I kept reading, because it was strongly evident that Wilhelm Reich was on a quest to heal all people.
He says, “Accordingly, the fear of orgastic contact constitutes the core of the fear of genuine, direct psychic contact with persons and with the processes of reality.” Reich wanted people to connect with and release their armor that no longer serves them.
A combination of two complimentary factors : his accurate diagnosis of a species-wide form of psychological disorder he called “the emotional plague” was extremely confronting, and his claim to have discovered a cosmic energy called “orgone”, which could heal people if they sat in “orgone boxes” and could make it rain if you pointed a “cloud buster” at a cloud, made it easy to dismiss him as a crackpot.The challenge of reviewing one of his books is how to deal with the whole “orgone energy” issue.
By far Reich's best book of all the ones I've read. I've never thought his Orgone energy ideas had much credibility, but this was written when he was an active leftist and still in most ways a Freudian analyst. Certainly much better than anything Carl Jung ever wrote.
Though at times this book falters in its oversimplification of sexual economy and certain typical Victorian generalizations, it stands as one of the most significant challenges to Freud's theorization of the "Death Instinct" to date.
In this work Reich attempts to establish to the reader the intimate connection between Anxiety, Sexuality, and Social Power Struggles as they manifest in the smallest arenas of social hierarchy and the highest arches of Political movements.
Reich establishes the concept of "Character Armor" as the agonist upon which most every Neurotic behavior set manifest and exist within.
Reich is not an easy read. This book is all over the place. At the start, he assumes the reader is a psychoanalyst and then half way through he starts explaining concepts that he brushed over in the previous chapters. This is a shame because he seems to me to be an intelligent man and understanding of his patients. His theories are interesting but I would suggest Alexander Lowens books if you wanted to understand Reichs concepts and the actual therapy practice.
Thank you, Wilhem.
Great Precursor to Bioenergetics. Teaches you hopw to read trauma from posture and behaviour.
Real comphrehensive through the many aspects of Chracter analysis, and the origins of the emotinal plague, steps to restore patients to n orgiastic stte instead of hve them suffer with nouroses, become psychotic, or whtnot.
Describes many case studies in detail, and also includes the brilliant essy on the Schizhophrenic Split, a malady even Reich never got to the bottom of.
That being said, it is real sad to see this brilliant psychiatrist toady being pretty much forgotten in the litterature, all the while a number of poeple are getting very well by rebranding his techniques, and calling it their own "discovery" while omitting several crucial components while deling with the puzzling nature of the human mind.
Wilhelm would have been great psychoanalyst and research if he hasn't gone insane with this whole "orgone" energy thing. Another case of seeing what you want to see, rather than what is. I do understand where he came from though...our society intolerance of honest discussion of all things sexual is still persisting and damaging us all.
When I read it as a student in Tübingen in the 70s - I wrote 2 notes in this book: Lordose page 382 and Orgasmusreflex page 388 - besides I underlined many sentences and even whole paragraphs and pages - in short, it reflected exactly my thinking and described my feelings etc... (dali48)
Y aquí descubrí que el psicoanálisis no es lo mío. Rly.
I don't think I have all the knowledge needed to fully understand this book but Reich never seems to convince me, although there are some interesting parts in his work.
