https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/276767.The_Word_for_World_is_Forest
I’m going to be tackling these in no particular order, since my research shows that they’re only tertiarily connected to one another, but take place in a shared universe.The Word for World is Forest is a terrific novella, originally published in the Harlan Ellison edited Again, Dangerous Visions anthology in 1972.
The novella also definitely influenced George Lucas’s Ewoks from Return of the Jedi, to such a degree that I think plagiarism is the better suited word.It's a social science fiction story, and a moralistic/ethical one with some wonderfully insightful and precient things to say about dangerous ideas entering the public consciousness.
"Maybe after I die people will be as they were before I was born, and before you came. But I do not think they will." In every book by Le Guin there is that special something for me, something that grabs a firm hold of my mind and heart and stubbornly hangs on, refusing to let go, burrowing deeply, growing roots, sprouting shoots that will go on to quietly, unobtrusively, almost imperceptibly change my mental landscape forever - by making me really think, by challenging established ideas, preco
In every book by Le Guin there is that special something for me, something that grabs a firm hold of my mind and heart and stubbornly hangs on, refusing to let go, burrowing deeply, growing roots, sprouting shoots that will go on to quietly, unobtrusively, almost imperceptibly change my mental landscape forever - by making me really think, by challenging established ideas, preconceptions and expectations with unexpected quiet subversive subtlety.
The idea, the storyline Le Guin uses is not new; in fact, it appears to be as old a human nature itself - just like that scene in the beginning of Kubrick's 'Space Odyssey', when proto-us make the definite step on the road from ape to human by learning how to use tools as weapons of murder.
Revisiting her “Hainish” cycle of works (not a series of books but rather a group of stand alone works with a thematic central core – somewhat similar to Heinlein’s Future History or Poul Anderson’s Poletechnic Series, though I am unaware of any reoccurring characters in LeGuin’s Hainish Cycle), the author sets this work on a small planet inhabited by short, green furred humanoids who, though technologically backward, are spiritually and evolutionarily more advanced than the visiting, conquering and destroying Terran colonists.I cannot read the novel without forming a mental comparison to the 1953 short story Piper in the Woods: A Short Science Fiction Novel by Philip K.
Le Guin’s ending confronts that “unresolved problem,” in one of the stronger scenes in the story, making it clear that a society’s adoption of violence as a means to an end, while it may win the immediate battle, is a Pandora’s Box.I first read The Word for World is Forest about twenty years ago; I think I even still have the paperback with this cheesy cover:I have to say that I definitely appreciated it more this time around, in large part because I’ve been reading Le Guin’s other Hainish Cycle novels and stories in the LOA collection.
Good short books are profitable reads, therefore great ones are greatly profitable.
I am thinking of the time invested in reading the entire book and the pleasure, inspiration or education gained from them.
This book clocks in at 189 pages but Le Guin made every word count.
A book of this quality at this length ought to be read by everyone.Note: If you are in the mood for short but great sci-fi novels have a look at this for plenty of suggestions (and do join us at PrintSF for sf books discussions).
Another excellent instalment in the Hainish Cycle. Ursula le Guin has become one of my favourite authors ever despite the fact that none of her writing has really astounded me. There is just something about each one of her books that makes them both enjoyable and thought-provoking.Also, this book has proto-ewoks.
No. And it works." Space travel has brought humanity to the stars, but their arrival on New Tahity, an ocean planet with a few scattered islands covered in lush forest, means extinction for the environment and enslavement for the native population: small, furry green aborigens not so different from the pygmies of Central Africa or the lost tribes of the Amazonian jungle.
A desert of cement?" Kees, the local naturalist from Smith Logger Camp, has few actual powers to stop Davidson, the logger's boss and the poster boy of the New Right, America Earth First policy.
In all honesty, the basic premise of this novella is the one I've read/seen many times before both in fiction (the latest version is James Cameron's "Avatar") and reality.
A group of evil and greedy Terrans is in a process of colonizing a new planet - Athshe.
What it means, as you can guess, is that Terrans destroy Athshe's ecosystem by cutting down the planet's forests and sending wood to their mother planet Earth (which by this time is nothing but a barren desert) and enslave and abuse the native people who they consider to be imbecilic animals but choose to rape their females anyway.
Reading Le Guin for me these last couple years, reminds me of how I felt when I first discovered John le Carré.
An artist doesn't have to go very wide to create worlds, sometimes the best worlds are created by just going deep.In this novel Le Guin explores two cultures colliding.
In many ways, this book is an exploration of acculturation.
Le Guin's parents were both anthropologists, so some of these ideas pop into many of her books.
She creates an interesting story, fantastic characters, and lets the themes come naturally.
Her ideas seem entirely native to the story.
Devastating. I continue to be astounded by the depths of feeling, wisdom, and truth that Le Guin was able to unearth in her work. This was in many ways the most brutal of her books that I’ve read, but it is still filled with a terrible beauty and even some hope.
The Word for World is Forest is heartwrenchingly beautiful, all the more for its continued relevence nearly half a century since first publication.
If you accept that, you see at once why truly serious people reject and mistrust the arts, labelling them as "escapism".
The captured soldier tunneling out of prison, the runaway slave, and Solzhenitsyn in exile, are escapists."She later describes how easy, fluent and yet unpleasurable this story was to write, and how she struggled against making it into a "preachment".
The Word for World is Forest is just as easy, fluent and yet painful to read as its creation appeared to be.
Úrsula nos presenta un planeta perdido de la mano de dios donde el hombre pretende colonizarlo. Con un trasfondo filosófico y una mediática guerra entre dioses nadie estará a salvo de la cruenta batalla a la que se enfrentan.Me ha parecido realmente sublime. Pone a los todopoderosos hombres sobre las cuerdas y hace ver que seres menos evolucionado como son los crichis también pueden tener sentimientos y en ocasiones liderar una auténtica revolución. Vídeo reseña: https://youtu.be/605x-AnY_0I
...ağaçların altında belki de başka hiçbir yerde olmadığı kadar evinde hissediyordu kendini.Nasıl da üzücü bir kitaptı. Orman ve Dünya kelimelerinin aynı anlama geldiği bir gezegen, orada yaşayan masum bir halk ve medeniyet götürme adı altında o gezegeni işgal eden, ölümü ve köleliği götüren vahşi insanlar. Kitabın tanıtım yazısında Dünya kurtulsa bile aynı dünya olabilecek miydi peki?  deniyor ya, en çok da bu kısım üzüyor okuyucuyu. Kısa göründüğüne bakmayın, derin bir kitap o yüzden odaklanarak okumak lazım. Ursula'nın yazdığı her kitap güzel, Dünyaya Orman Denir ise çok güzel olanlardan.
This is a story about hatred and violence, the harm they cause in the long and short term; it's about colonialism and the preservation of aboriginal cultures, deforestation, militarism… Knowing it was written in the wake of the Viet-Nam war, it is easy to understand how all these issues were bouncing around in Le Guin's head, and how it influences the tone of her story.The Athsheans' culture is based around the forest they live in, and dreaming - when they are awake and asleep.
Its tale of colonist humans and their conflict with the native Athsheans transplants the worst atrocities of colonialism's past into the future, but loses any subtlety and nuance in the process.It doesn't help that the Athsheans embody just about every romanticized stereotype of the native primitive.
They're effective characters for driving the plot forward, but none of them are particularly enjoyable to spend time with.The lens of science fiction can put history in a fresh new perspective, letting us see past and present injustices in new contexts free from our preconceived notions.
Quizás el tema ecológico, hacia el que la realidad ha dirigido su atención con insistencia desde entonces, parezca en la novela menos llamativo que en el siglo pasado, pero el poso ideológico que la autora le imprime siempre a sus obras sigue vigente.
Más para este lector, pues donde entonces me pareció que la obra tomaba partido por la especie indígena, en una suerte de Primera Directiva startrekiana algo naíf, ahora encuentro tonos grises, claroscuros en ambas especies.
Más que a la falta de entendimiento, la crítica se dirige hacia la vituperable actitud de generalizar.
Her stories are beautiful and deep and always touch me in a way that is hard to describe.
For any who've yet to pick up one of her novels, I can't recommend her work enough.The different perspectives given in this story are so contrary and the light it sheds so illuminating.
One of the things I love most about this series is that you don't have to read them in order.
My first (and thus far favourite) was The Dispossessed, but I believe you can read these books in any order.
As I said earlier, can't recommend them enough!
I had to sit with this one a bit before reviewing. A hard-hitting look at imperialism, humanity and the appropriate use of violence, once again Le Guin manages to distill everything into a perfect clarity that is at once easy to follow and vastly complex.CONTENT WARNING: (no actual spoilers, just a list of topics) (view spoiler)[mentions of graphic rape, slavery, genocide, graphic violence, casual racism and sexism. (hide spoiler)]Things to love:The writing. As usual, Le Guin is absolutely brill
A hard-hitting look at imperialism, humanity and the appropriate use of violence, once again Le Guin manages to distill everything into a perfect clarity that is at once easy to follow and vastly complex.CONTENT WARNING: (no actual spoilers, just a list of topics) (view spoiler)[mentions of graphic rape, slavery, genocide, graphic violence, casual racism and sexism.
It just feels so much like reading the news that I may have missed a few things due to rage blackouts.Things I wanted but did not get:-Condemnation of neutrality.
FOREST CLEARING – TOWN OF ENDTOR - LJUBOV'S CRASH SITE 67A strange little green furry face with huge black eyes comes slowly into view.
I came to help.LJUBOV looks around at the dense forest, and at the charred remains of his hopper, then sits down, with a sigh, on a fallen log.
Come on, sit down.SELVER holds his spear up warily and growls at him like a puppy.LJUBOV pats the log again.
Come on, get up, LJUBOV!He hands the weapon over as a second man emerges from the foliage in front of the log.
My friend Josh described this as the book James Cameron ripped off to make Avatar, to which I replied, "Can you really rip off imperialist guilt?
Also, hello, dragons." While I stand by both of those assertions, Cameron clearly lifted heavily from this book, so, ok Josh, you at least half win.
Like basically all suckers for the Pocahontas trope, though, Cameron failed to grasp the central irony of said trope, namely that it redeems the oppressor while continuing to rob the oppressed of their agency.
Selver isn't a foil for Lyubov's heroic change of mind.
I need to think about my rating.
The story has some very important messages but I wish I'd never read it.
But everything else deserves five stars.EDIT: So this book had a really strong effect on me and I feel that it deserves five stars for that alone.
Emotionally I really struggled with this story and found it quite devastating.
Yes, there's a part of me that wishes I had never read it but I also think it was really well done and absolutely amazing.
And see, there's that amazing word and that means five stars.
:) Be prepared to have your heart broken if you decide to read this.
Le Guin, then start with this book.
If you've only read a couple by Le Guin and are wondering what next to sample, follow up with this book next.
I've only read two other titles by Le Guin, but I wish I had started here first.
Le Guin's work is dense and requires some work on the part of the reader, but this book (actually just a novella) is far more accessible and serves as a great introduction to themes and concepts used in her other works.
But here, in this book, it would have been all very clear what an ansible is used for.
Because I didn’t pick it, I came into this short novel with almost no expectations, which is always a nice way to begin a book; for when you have no expectations, everything good tastes sweeter, and everything bad less bitter.Le Guin’s little parable was a pleasant surprise.
I admit, there are some interesting touches that prevent Davidson from being a comic-book bad guy; but in general he’s been left in the oven too long: all the savor has been burnt out of him, leaving only an ashy crisp.One way that Le Guin does, unfortunately, fall into the pattern is that she is inept at writing dialogue.
Metis yayınları sağ olsun kitabı okurken şöyle hissettim.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U5gB1...
A film which quite literally created a world with $300,000,000 worth of CGI, horrifically failing to trump the real juice… ...
"Avatar" it has been driving me nuts what book he, James Cameron had (dreadfully) ripped off; a book I loved in my teens, but could not remember the tittle of.
Found it in the closet yesterday and this is it.I guess in all fairness he poached the hell out of "Nausicaa of the Vally of the Wind" as well.I do have to credit Avatar with getting me to reread this amazing book.P.S. Avatar is the only Cameron film I have disliked and that includes "Piranha 2: The Spawning.
This is not a new premise. Humanity brings devastation to a new colony and destroys the forested world and its inhabitants. We've seen it many times. Avatar comes to mind among others. Ursula Le Guin tells the tale in a unique and interesting way. Her descriptions of the world, the inhabitants and the scenery is great. Chapters are told from different viewpoints and every character has a distinct voice. In fact the change in tone and style and in word choice is amazing to follow. All in all a gutting tale, well worth the read.
Yazımın aslı ve tamamı --> https://yaprakonur.wordpress.com/2018...Kitabın geçtiği Athshe ormanlarla kaplı bir gezegen ve yerlileri Athshelilerin (ya da Arzlıların onlara taktıkları isimle ‘yaratıkcık’ların) dilinde Athshe hem ‘orman’ hem ‘dünya’ anlamına geliyor, aynı Arz’ın hem ‘toprak’ hem ‘dünya’ anlamına gelmesi gibi.
Kendi dünyalarını tüketmiş, başka dünyaların kaynakları üzerinde hak iddia eden bir toplumun üyeleri.
Kendilerinden aşağı gördükleri ırkları ezip geçmekte hiçbir sakınca görmeyen bir toplumun.Peki bu saf iyiler dünyaları olarak gördükleri orman yok edilir, halkları köle düşüp öldürülürken nasıl tepki verir?
Le Guin never fails to deliver.There were a few over-the-top characterizations, but considering the era that she wrote this, and the points she was making, they aren't necessarily bad moves by the writer.
(view spoiler)[I particularly liked the point in the climax, when our hero decides his gift to Davidson will be to let him live, for the poetic justice as well as the contrast of the two aspects of humanity.
Le Guin, who has that middle-initial action going on.
Ma questo gesto pacificatore darà agli indigeni la possibilità di scatenare un attacco quasi definitivo contro gli umani (l’autrice sottolinea queste ambiguità degli eventi storici: anche il capo della prima rivolta si era salvato dalla violenza omicida di un terrestre grazie a un altro terrestre).La trama sembra quasi scontata a noi, cresciuti con Soldato blu, Balla con i lupi, Avatar; ma la LeGuin, nel descrivere villaggi nella foresta incendiati con il napalm fino all’ultimo abitante, aveva forse in mente il massacro di My Lai in Vietnam; qualcosa di molto più difficile da denunciare al tempo, essendo cronaca: con i colpevoli, e chi li copriva, in piena attività.Non è comunque la “denuncia” che interessa all’autrice, ma l’analisi dello scontro tra una civiltà tecnologica e una tradizionale, e la ricerca di una modalità di convivenza.Il breve romanzo concentra una serie di temi innovativi.
Reading UKL is like a deep draught of pristine mountain air. James Cameron's Avatar ripped off this book without the complexity, nuance and poetry.
