https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/382795.The_Dog_Who_Came_to_Stay
Pleasant readingGood book about man's best and most dependable friend. Well worth the time, made me appreciate my friend that I just lost. E
This beautifully crafted prose transported me to the farm in New England where Pat, the hound, wandered in one day. I accompanied Pat and his “person”, he has no master, as they routed the rabbits and woodchucks who decimated their garden, I agonized as Pat protected his farm from poachers and caught a bullet in the chest, and Pat brooked no trespassing dogs. His explorations landed him in an animal trap. His adventures were shared in a flowing style that was mesmerizing and beautiful. Do no miss this literary treasure.
Memoir?One of the best I can recall reading about a dog. Makes me wonder how the other dog in the story made out (Mike was his name). Delightful read and truly sorry there is no more to be read....
Good DogThis is a good book and an excellent story. Hal Borland writes about the stray who shows up and stays, turning into his dog..
Okay book about a country dogI didn't have a dog until I was 62 when I adopted a small shelter dog.
I had a hard time with the author's attitude towards dogs in general and toward Pat in particular, the dog who came to stay with Hal and his wife at their country home in Connecticut.
Maybe it's the difference in era since this book was written some time ago.
I never felt Pat was secure in his life or his home, despite HaI's warming up to the dog eventually.
I really enjoyed getting to know both the owner and his dog by reading this book. It's a story about a dog who showed up as a stray one Christmas eve, and adopted the author and his wife. Lots of stories of man and dog hunting, living, and sharing their lives. Spoiler alert: I especially appreciated that, unlike most dog stories, this didn't end in the tear-jerking death of the dog. Great book.
A Dog Who Owned a ManI spent a lot of my adult years in Connecticut and that influenced my decision to read this memoir. It was a good decision. The book is timeless in the sense that the love of a good dog is similar from generation to generation, since humans and dog first accompanied one another, I suspect. Yet it also describes an earlier time in the mid-twentieth century. I thoroughly enjoyed it and recommend it.
Because I own a dog, I have a weakness for a good dog story. This was a great story about a dog who comes and stays. The descriptions of his antics and behaviors are spot on for how some dogs are and they made me smile. There were a few tears for me too in this memoir. The author is very good at descriptions of the area where he lives, giving me a true sense of the colors, smells and beauty all around them.
Old attitudes good storyThis book was written in 1961. Attitudes about dogs were quite different back then in the farming community that Hal Borland lived in. Dogs then were disciplined with rolled newspaper. Having said Pat chose the Borland's and this book is a good story about an older time and place and the relationship between man and dog.
Growing up we had a dog like Pat that "owned" our area and chose to love and protect our family. This book brought back many happy memories. The author's style is quiet and his writing is rich with images of nature. This book compares, in my estimation, to the animal books of James Herriot. I recommend it for anyone that enjoys a good dog story.
Great Read!I enjoyed every page of this book. Anyone who is a dog lover would enjoy reading this aboutthe adventures, and misadventures of Pat. He is a well mannered dog with a lot of spirit and joy. He found his family and moved in with them even though the weren't looking for a pet. The love grew between dog and humans, and their lives together were rewarding.
This is a wonderful dog book, a fast enjoyable read, compelling, concise, and informative, suitable for all ages. I didn't want it to end. Hal Borland was a talented journalist and nature writer born in 1900. This is the second of his books that I read, and I had to buy both as they are unfortunately not available in my library.
If only someone had cared......Wish someone could have or would have had sympathy for the "bitch" because, even though she wasnt a purebred, she had a story of her own that also was important. just felt sorry for her and felt she deserved more than death. otherwise, a great book.
Interesting.Interesting to see what life is like for a country dog. He enjoyed being able to run free, swim& hunt
Being a dog person... I loved the personality of Pat! What a great read
The version I have is the 1961 scholastic Ed Interesting & enjoyable story :)
I'm a Dog PersonGreat story , full of love and respect from both Pat(the dog) and the people HE chose to love.
I have 4 Yorkies and a Cock a Poo. All beautiful and loving.
SHE now has 4 Yorkies and a Cock 3Poo as they now love her, guard over her and are worried like crazy when she is in hospital.
My furbabies range in age from 7 to 12 years old.
2 arrived as babies 14 weeks old, all others were born here and will never leave.
People are Blessed when loved by a dog.
A Dog that loves you would rather sleep outside with you if that's what you had to do on a freezing winter night when he could be comfortable sleeping on a rug in a nice warm house.
They ask nothing other than a bowl of food and fresh water every day, in exchange for which they would unselfish and gladly give their life for you if you needed them to do so, Such is the love of a dog for its master.
And if you're a family, the dog will pick the one he chooses and there's nothing you can do about it, for he has chosen you.
I was surprised to learn how sharply intuned this stray hound pup, Pat was to his surroundings.
It was so human like in certain behavior, you immediately forget he's is not an actual person.
The story starts out great but, at times becomes repetitive and rambles on a bit.
However, it has some great highlights that kept my interest.
It's a truly sweet story that everyone should read.
Because this story takes place in the 1950s and both the author and Pat were on in years, I assume they're dead now.
I would have liked learning more about Pats youth and where he came from.
dogs do pick us.This was a well written book and if your a dog loved all the better. This past was loved the way a farm dog should be. God farm,good hunting just all round God dog. I had a walker bound mix, she would not have made a good hunting dog but she was a love. I got her at the pound had to wait a month to get her it was the holidays plus they had to hold her because she was a stray only about four months old but worth the wait had almost 13 years .
This is a must-read for dog lovers. I enjoyed every word and laughed out loud any number of times. There is a lyrical quality to Mr. Botland's writing. Although the story is nearly 60 years old, it's still current and will appeal to nature lovers as well.
More than a dog ‘s storyI thought this was a wonderful story about an intelligent, resourceful and responsible dog who blessed a couple with his presence and widened their world and their lives.
Dog Selects FamilyPat is an independent dog who found the people he chose to live with. He was smart and responsible. The author tells of their time together, and how the dog enriched his life .
Wonderful story!Loved reading this book about a new England couple and the dog that adopted them. So descriptive that you can imagine just how it looked as you read along. Not my normal book but this is a must read. Now I have to go hug my dog.
I realize this book is quite old, and that people's attitudes about pets have changed since then, but the author's attitude about dogs and some of his behavior disgusts me. Honestly, Hal Borland shouldn't have owned a dog at all.
A pleasant little read. This is not literature, but I can sure enjoy a good dog story every once in a while. I won't have any need to look up more books by this author, though he was quite good. Think maybe a spy novel might be next....?
I want to read more of Hal Borlands booksI really enjoyed this book. Mr. Borland seems to really understand dogs.I will read more of his books.I need to know what else he has written.
What a soul lifting book. So glad the author did not end with the death of pat. I want to still think of him frolicking up and down the mountains searching for wildlife and a warm rug in front of the fire at nights. Loved, loved this book.
It wasn't written as a thriller, but I could not wait to get back to it. There's a little mystery here and there. It's definitely a love story...or maybe a few love stories. Dogs are just about my favorite things in this world. And this book is now one of my favorites, also!
Great insight into an independent dog that chose his human.
