https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12460367-soldier-s-home
"Soldier's Home" details the short story of Harold Krebs, a soldier who returns from World War I to a town that could not care less about him.
Hemingway does a great job showing the cruelty and lack of caring Krebs experiences upon his arrival home after the war.
Though Krebs has a physical space to come home to, what he has gone through in the war has changed its psychological foundation forever.I appreciate this story so much because Hemingway captures the pain of having your mental illness ignored and misunderstood.
Hemingway, to write this short story, showed real courage.This soldier comes home physically, but he can't come home again mentally or emotionally, not deep down inside, and he doesn't notice anything deep inside.
He saw and felt things people aren't supposed to see or feel, so he can't look.
Hemingway does not write directly about any of that although he veers closer and closer to it, so close that you think something important is going to break.
Instead, Hemingway writes about what the soldier does after he gets home from the war, things like watching baseball, playing pool, or reading, for instance.
A soldier comes home from the war and is now different.
But he finds it difficult to tell people, even his family, that he is no longer the same.
For when he tells the truth, he doesn't like people's reactions.
For them to listen to him they need to be told lies.
They need heroes, so they need to be told heroic tales.
The one, true thing he could only tell fellow soldiers who had been to the war--what made him lose everything--was that he had been badly, sickeningly frightened all the time.
3.5 stars
This short story is about a soldier who came back home from war.
While he wasn't killed there, part of his soul and heart were.
He seems to be so shocked from war that he has no desire to do anything, because everything is too complicated.
He really isn't able to handle life's complexity anymore.
He insists on having a simple life.
And he has isolated himself from all others.
It's not that he completely lost interest in human relationships, but as he says "courting girls" takes effort and that's not worth it.
Nothing is worth it.
An interesting short story. A man from a small space goes to the world and realizes it is much more than his small-town, which does not even remember him. This is my second Hemingway and makes good use of Hemingway's unique laconic speech. It is not epic, but not bad.
Short story about a soldier that comes home from war and does not receive the praise that he expects. It was really well-written and easy to read. Hemingway writes in a style that literally makes the reader feel the emotions of the characters. His sentence structure was short and simple but the way he writes kind of directly includes you into the story. I felt so much sympathy towards Krebs and I definitely recommend this if you want a short story that will make you feel sorry for the character D;
Read in The Snows of Kilimanjaro and Other Stories. A soldier returns home from war a different man. Sadly, he is unable to communicate these changes, especially as others don't want to recognize him as being any different.
Hemingway captures how timeless it is for soldiers to experience the isolation and psychologocal pain of returning from war. Great short story, recommend.
So many levels to this story. Still a young man when he returns home, yet he is aged far beyond his parents. I will revisit this story often.
A great story about a subject too long neglected that is PTSD. More casualties of war belong in this category than those who actually die. Something like 66% percent of soldiers suffer this fate.
As children we are taught that we can do or be anything that we want to be. Sometimes when dreams become reality, reality is far to great of price! He lost HOME :{
Krebs is the person who was a soldier at the war in the story.
Story is keep showing the Krebs' perspective and normal boring daily life.
I think this story is showing the depression of author after the war.
At the end of the story, "He would go to Kansas City and get a job and she would feel all right about it" shows he is acting for his mother's happiness, not for himself.
This is showing how the war affects the soldier.
I think author wrote this to mention innocence about mental disorder from war.
Soldier's Home is one of Hemingway's stories in his first collection In Our Time.
Hemingway once again takes us to the war, but this time he focused on its aftermath, and the struggle to move on in life.
For him, noting is worth fighting for anymore.
He wanted things to happen in their own accord; he did not want to seek anything anymore; he wanted things to come his way by their own without having to work for them because everything was not worth it.
He just wanted life to go on so smoothly until it ends one day.
Harold Krebs returns home from WWI two years after all of the other soldiers and finds a world and society almost alien to him.
With some interesting issues related to gender (the suppression of the male voice) and an ending with multiple interpretations, Hemingway convincingly portrays the struggle of a soldier acclimating to civilian life after experiencing war.
Hemingway casts Krebs as a character one can both empathize with and loathe.
This story can also be applied to life today as soldiers return from various wars and conflicts.**NOTE: I'm not a Hemingway fan by any means, and I actually enjoyed this short story.**
Honestly, Hemingway is growing more and more on me today. I enjoyed this story a lot, and I think he found a great way to explore PTSD and how it effects a person. Even when he's home, he is really only physically there. He wants the girls in town, but he's still stuck in war-time, and it's tragic.
This book brings forth an interesting take on what it was like to be a veteran from WWI, by bringing a sense of thought. In order to read this one would have to bring about a greater sense of connect, because it is not just a story.
I liked this very much. I see more Hemingway on the horizon. A few weeks later:I chose to write my essay on this and read it a hundred times and ugh...depressing. I just want to crawl inside the story and make sure nothing bad happens to Krebs ever again.
This was an interesting snippet on the disillusionment and isolation of a boy home from war. Not the strongest Hemingway story, but not the weakest either.
When Hemingway writes about war and it's trauma, he knows what he's talking about.Being from the lost generation, he was in a soldier's shoe.He was a man that witnessed war and its blunders.
Sad but good.
Toto ma až tak nebavilo. Hemngway písal výborne, ale nejak mi to nesadlo.
This book is very easy to read, very well written, however I would love to see it written in the eyes of the soldier.
