https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395477.Where_the_Lilies_Bloom
I read it so many times when I was in middle school-it was one of my favorites!I loved books like this one that were about kids who had to make it in the world alone because their parents are absent for some reason.
(In this book, the parents were absent because they were DEAD!) I think I was drawn to that plot line because I just wanted my parents to leave me along.
(Not that I wanted them dead.
I didn't particularly want them dead.
I just wanted them to leave me along.) But anyway...There was a movie (maybe a made for TV movie) based on this book.

I think part of the attraction was the setting, the Appalachian Mountains, but in the movie I fell in love with Mary Call.
Before her father passed on he made Mary Call promise to keep the family together and not to accept charity.
Mary Call finds her mother's old wildcrafting book and organizes the family into starting their own wildcrafting business.
In the end, Mary Call learns to accept help from outsiders and that Kiser isn't so bad after all.
The book gave breathtaking descriptions of the mountains and I learned a lot about the plants of that region.
What a story!Mary Call is thrust into the position of provider for the three siblings after her father sickens and dies.
She and her brother covertly bury him on their property, and they must keep up the pretense that he is still in the sickroom with outsiders.
Mary Call is a strong fourteen-year-old, and she courageously schemes and plots to secure the land and home and food for her family while railing against her chief adversary, Kaiser Pease.
You won't run across a stronger girl character than Mary Call, I think, and you won't find a more compelling story than Where the Lilies Bloom.
I read this for a book report assignment over the summer before sixth grade. I liked the setting for the book, very rustic; plus, I love mountains and all that. And looking back on it I really like how strong a character Mary Call is. She does whatever is necessary to keep her family together and healthy. Another book I might have to revisit one day.
I love Appalachian fiction, and this book ranks among one of my new favorites.
The authors do an excellent job of depicting the proud, stubborn, and loyal people of the region through the main character Mary Call.
Appalachian fiction is always sad on some level because of the hardship, poverty, and lack of education that the region has experience historically.
While things are getting better, the people of Appalachia, my people, have been playing catch up for years.
Time stood still for much of Appalachia during those years.
She is a great role model, and she really leaves an impression on you.
In fact, this whole book leaves an impression on the reader.
Its humor was absolutely 'on point', as well as the writing style and details.
It was a tad to short for my liking, I prefer longer books.
In conclusion, this book was a fun quick read,(even though i would prefer it to be longer) and the character development was just fantastic.
Even though at some points i would get confused.
Nevertheless, the theme for this book is ask for help when you need it.

Some stories just stick with you over time and this was one that had stuck with me but was way overdue for a reread.
Rereading it reminded me of all the things I loved about the story when I read it the first time.
It even brought back the memory of getting in trouble with my mom for reading with a flashlight way passed my bedtime because I couldn't stop until I found out if Mary Call Luther could keep her family together.
Oh how I love that character of Mary Call Luther!
I originally read this in grade school - some time around the sixth grade - and I remembered liking it very much. I misremembered some of the details - I'd thought Roy Luther was a coal miner rather than a sharecropper. I enjoyed reading it again as an adult, although I now realize the quality of the writing isn't as good as it possibly could be. Still, this is a fascinating story of a 14-year-old Appalachian girl in North Carolina trying to keep her siblings together after their father becomes gravely ill. It's also a nice depiction of wildcrafting.
This one probably deserves 3.5 stars. It was a re-read for me; I remember reading it as a kid and seeing the movie. I like the strong central female character who IS NOT an ignorant hillbilly. The descriptions of rural poverty and the beauty of the NC mountains were very good. Interesting descriptions of wildcrafting as the kids try to support themselves by harvesting medicinal herbs, roots and bark. Kids who have been through tough times will find an accurate mirror to their own experience here and a worthwhile reading experience.
For me, Where the Lilies Bloom was like meeting someone new.
At first, I didn't know them very well, and I didn't really think that the two of us would hit it off.
Where the Lilies Bloom is a compelling story about a young girl having the weight of the world being placed on her shoulders and her undying reliance to help her family.
It's a story that will captivate you and that you'll remember for years to come and will inspire you to face your biggest obstacles head on.
I can't believe I just got around to reading this book now....I loved it!! One of my favorite YA books thus far. I love reading books about kids who are determined to make it in the world dispite their circumstances. I kept wanting to make it on their own after their father died...just didn't want them to be split up and sent to live with people who were mean to them. I would have liked the book to be a little longer in order to tell us what happened to the kids as they grew up.
This was required reading in grade school. The descriptions of poverty were evocative, but somewhat long-winded. What I remember most is that the TEACHER despised the book, and gave us as little work from it as possible. Validation for my feeling of dull.What I found the most irritating was the resolution: the retarded older sister suddenly becomes well enough to see the need of her family and take charge.
I have been looking for this story for years. Something about the mountains and the characters stuck out in my mind from when my elementary school librarian read this to us, but I couldn't remember the title. I remembered "lilies" but nothing more. But the imagery and characters were just as sharp this reading.
A well told story of what it was like to be mountain people in the deep south, sharecropping and how they deal with life after a family tragedy of major loss. Judging from the references, this could take place anytime from post WWII to the mid 1960s. It doesn't really reference any significant point in time or history. It's a judgement call but that takes nothing away from the story.
I got the book and it smelled like poo. I thought it was just the book,so I got a new one and that smelled like poo too. So I actually opened the book and read it, then I realized what it was. This book is a piece of poo.
We need to press forward in our struggles and not give up. Spring will always follow the darkest winters.
This was one of my favorites when I was a young teen. Interesting how the story has changed since then :)
It was a touching book about life and growing up and being so poor you don't know where you are going to get your next meal but ultimately about family sticking together.Mary Call is a 14 year old girl who lives in the Appalachian Mountains at the foot of two mountains- Old Joshua and Sugar Boy. Mary Call has an older sister Devola who has a slight mental handicap it seems.
She manages to get the house and land signed over to the family so they are no longer indebted to the man that wants to marry Devola.As Roy Luther's health gets worse, he makes Mary Call promise him some things.
I happened upon this book at the library.
The books I went there to get were checked out which was annoying, but then I came up with a plan.
Note - the book is worth reading!"Mary Call Luther struggles to keep her family together in North Carolina's Great Smokey Mountains after the deaths of her parents.
As he lay dying, her father made her promise to look after her batty but sweet older sister Devola and younger sisters Romey and Ima Dean.
Though Mary Call does her utmost to fulfill her promises, hardships settled on thick and fast.
There are two literary elements that I quickly saw when I was getting through this book.
This is where the lilies bloom.” What this is basically saying is that Mary Call loves the place where she lives no matter what kind of roof she has.
This kind of book with a strong female as the main character is a very unique book.
These are the books that interest readers even more because they are different than the ditzy female characters in a lot of books.
Where the Lilies Bloom (Vera & Bill Cleaver, 1969) is the story of Mary Call Luther, a 14 year old Appalachian girl, who struggles to keep her family alive and unharmed in the face of unthinkable hardship.
This is a story of family loyalty and pride, strength and perseverance, and a glimpse at the tough-as-nails character of a culturally distinct people.Where the Lilies Bloom is a personal narrative novel, spanning approximately 175 pages.
This is an emotionally intense story with which most readers can either empathize or identify on some level - abject poverty, abandonment or loss of parent, family loyalty, a struggle to thrive.
When Roy Luther dies his four children become orphans.
Not only is the daily task of making ends meet hard, but so is hiding the fact that Roy Luther is dead.
Can they work together gathering mountain herbs to sell while hiding their secret, or has their father asked too much of his young daughter?
Ever since I was young I have always loved stories about the Appalachian people, mostly the girls and their will to survive.
I remember watching the movie when I was young and loved it.
I loved the book even more.
Loved it!
I have a memory of this book burned into my mind from grade school.
It must have been my favorite book (though I'd forgotten the plot completely), but I could remember the picture on the cover and it's exact location in my school library.
I have memories of me going to it's location and just staring at the cover.
But by the time I finished the book, I changed my opinion.
I found the biggest lesson in the book (possible spoiler warning) is that people aren't always who you think they are.
People you fear, might not be that bad after all.
The authors have created a wonderful first-person narrator - the writing style is distinctive.
The story is engaging and holds the reader's attention all the way through to the end.
There's quite a bit in the premise of this book that is also found in Cynthia Voigt's 1981 book Homecoming - both books feature a strong teenage girl forced to take charge of her siblings (including a sister who may or may not be retarded in some way) and to hide the truth of the family's lack of adults.
I liked how the end wasn't about Mary Call giving up her own toughness or being saved by someone else (like Grandfather Boxcar Children), but realizing how much she'd underestimated the people around her.p.s. In my memory I always saw Mary Call as young Jodie Foster and was convinced the actress who played her in the movie looked like Jodie, so I was totally surprised when I looked at the movie cover on imdb and saw the actress looked nothing like her.
It lets you get a close up view of poverty and the struggle to survive that the people in the Smokey Mountains might experience.
This family tried to stay together even with so many things going against them.
It is the 14 year old girl who has to take over the responsibility for this family and she is remarkable in her resourcefulness.
It makes you thing about that desire to survive.
What a struggle they go through.
You see love that can hold people together as a family.
You come away empowered.
You also come away with more compassion for the poor.
They didn't have a lot going on in this town- the hottest hang out was a 7/11- but they did have an old library in a white Victorian.
I probably read that same copy thirty times.
My ten year old self admired Mary Call's ability to handle life and make things go right.
At fourteen years old, she has to become the parent (even though she has an older sister) and overcome hunger, sickness, bullies, and the possibility of giving up.
I really loved this story; it's time for me to get a copy and read it thirty more times!
Where the Lilies Bloom by Vera & Bill Cleaver is a delightful young adult novel.
I remember enjoying the movie when I was a kid back in the seventies and finally sought out and read the book.
Cataloged as young adult fiction, it is a truly moving story of a proud Appalachian family who loses their father to illness.
Determined to keep the family together the tough fourteen year old heroine struggles to make money through wildcrafting, the lost art of gathering medicinal plant materials from the mountains.
A wonderful, swift read from start to finish.
I won’t spoil the ending for you because you’ll want to read this one for yourself.
