https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/783291.The_Almost_Moon
I wanted to believe that the backlash against this book could be explained by general disappointment about Sebold's second novel not living up to The Lovely Bones.
But when I spent 4 hours on a plane learning how to do Sodoku just so I wouldn't have to read one more heinous word of this novel, I knew that I was going to have to throw in the towel and say some terrible things about Sebold's latest effort.We all know she can write.
After 87 pages, I no longer even cared enough to skim ahead in order to find out what horrible things had happened in her past.
Horrible, horrible, horrible. Bad in every way: terrible sentences, dreadful unbelievable characters, boring story. Includes this line, "This was not the first time I had been face-to-face with my mother's genitalia." Her genitalia has a FACE!!!! Downhill from there.
But that's what it's supposed to be, it's supposed to be poisonous, it's supposed to disturb the reader and make us feel bad and I thought it was very well crafted.To me, the character made perfect sense, and I even liked her as much as that is possible.
Maybe her way of seeing the world just makes sense to me, and maybe that doesn't bode that well, but just because she describes the world out of the viewpoint from characters who may not fit exactly in the nice, uplifting story with a bow on top formula so predominant in so-called "women's fiction" doesn't mean it's bad writing.
Figlia della sua stessa figlia.A parte Elettra che uccide la madre Clitennestra (*) nella tragedia di Euripide, il matricidio è molto meno frequentato dalla narrativa del patricidio.
Almeno per la metà maschile del mondo.O forse non è davvero così tanto più complesso e misterioso, è solo che per orrenda tradizione semi universale il ruolo della donna è più marginale rispetto a quello maschile, e quindi, c’è voluto più tempo e più impegno per scandagliare l’universo femminile.Ancora oggi, nel terzo millennio, a chi viene attribuito il dovere di sacrificare la propria vita per badare agli altri?
After I realized that I truly did not like this woman, anything about her, it was even harder to plod through her narcissism over her figure (realizing that if she had not taken such good care of her figure she wouldn't have had the strength to murder her mother, nor be attractive to her friend's son--oh GAG me!--and her going on and on about how plump her friend was, in a not-nice way--again, who is SHE to put down anyone!?!)See, the book wasn't presented as maybe the diary of Charles Manson would be, like it's supposed to be a spectacle of horrors, hard to get through because that level of sickness is just so out of our understanding.
I couldn't put this book down so I read it in two days.
What I especially liked about the book was how the author used stream of consciousness thinking (flash backs)to explain the thoughts and actions of the main character during a 24 hour period just before and after she kills her demented mother.
Also, as unreal as the events seem in the this story, they stem from the main character (who grew up in a disturbed family) making some minor poor choices under stress, then making a major poor choice (she killed her mother) which put her on a path of no return.
In the first sentence of the book, Helen tells the reader in her casual voice—as if she were a friend—that killing her mother came easily.
This personal point of view sets the tone of the story and somewhat prepares readers for the emotional ride to come.
She helps her father make existence possible for Clair by taking on an adult role with the neighbors and outsiders when Mr. Knightly is out of town.
With Helen’s whole story unfolded, revealed, does this give her the right to take the life of her mother?
Is her act a punishable offense, or do readers find something about Helen that helps them hope for her freedom?
You don't hear of too many men, for example, who just lose their marbles one day, drive their kids to a nearby lake and calmly drown them; not too many male jilted lovers go on insane cross-country drives in the middle of the night, with bizarre weapons in tow and while wearing adult diapers so that they don't have to make bathroom breaks, all in the name of some crazed crackpot scheme thought up in the middle of the night regarding stabbing their lover's new lover then turning the knife on themselves.It is one of these very topics, in fact, that fuels the entire storyline of acclaimed author Alice Sebold's latest brilliantly twisted dark little novel, The Almost Moon; in fact, that's what the very first chapter of the book is devoted to, is a real-time blow-by-blow accounting of a middle-aged woman suddenly going insane one day and murdering her senile, sh-t-covered old-age mother, just randomly one afternoon while over at her house and preparing to clean her like a baby for the thousandth time in a row now.
I made it to around 60 pages before I chucked it across the room. Horrible horrible horrible all over the place, pathetic writing with sad, unlikeable characters.
The main character is introduced as seemly a normal woman whose elderly mother is entering her final years and at the stage of facing a nursing home or care facility.
I am a young adult librarian, and I still struggle on whether I want to add it to the collection because it is told in such a real way.In fact, I have seen women like the main character in the news...i.e. minister's wife kills husband...and I wondered what happened to her to make her do it.
The slow erosion of rationale thinking due to mental illness and emotional strain.
I think it is a very unique book in its perspective and helpful in analyzing the thought processes of the mentally ill, which is why I recommend it.
This book feels like it came from a different planet.
How can an author who wrote such a critically-acclaimed novel also write this?
I like to think that novels are stories that authors feel they *need* to tell.
I’m not against dark stories.
Helen is a miserable person and the only thing this novel does is confirm that she had a terrible childhood and her mother’s mental illness went untreated her whole life.
Bad for Helen?
I’m sure you could find a better story that encapsulates a dark family dynamic and how mental illness affects us, personally and as bystanders.
Imagine my pleasure and delight (I always like to feel justified) when I read several reviews (The New York Times Sunday Book Review and USA Today) absolutely trashing her latest book The Almost Moon.
I am not giving away any plot details since Helen announces the murder in the book’s first sentence.I am not sure what Sebold intends with Helen and her plot.
Should we feel murder is justified because her mother was not nurturing?
Or maybe it is, but reading the reviews took away much of the pleasure of discovering for myself how terrible the book really is.
I could have gotten over the main character murdering her mother (which is within the first sentence, so don't panic about being spoiled) if she weren't so unpleasant in every other respect.
First she murders her mother, and then she goes on to do other things that are just as cringe-worthy.I also could have gotten past how horrible a person Helen was...if they novel had any kind of point at all.
I can appreciate stream-of-consciousness, but not when it's so disjointed that it confuses me as to what is going on.Yes, the characters are fleshed out.
After the phenomenal success of THE LOVELY BONES, Alice Sebold could have chosen to write a sophomore novel in which she once again gave readers a sympathetic, utterly likable narrator like Susie Salmon.
Instead, she writes through the voice of Helen Knightly, and Helen tells the reader, right from the beginning, that liking her is going to be a challenge:When all is said and done, killing my mother came easily.
And Sebold's language and skill as a writer give to Helen a depth that demands that the reader "hear her out." As Helen tells more of her story, we see the shadows of her parents' demons move across Helen's skin.
Sebold has a gift for poetic tone and thoughtful metaphor.
she hits you with something like: "She looked up at me and smiled.
The thing about dementia is that sometimes you feel like the afflicted person has a trip wire to the truth, as if they can see beneath the skin you hide in." Or: "I got her standing with ease, but once she was upright, she collapsed in my arms.
It has a dark veil drawn over it, infusing most of it with an isolated and suicidal tone.
I enjoyed this novel, though not as much as Sebold's 'The Lovely Bones'.
A lot of people took a massive shit on this book because they disliked Helen's character so much...
There are lots of ugly characters in the world, and they are far more believable than the fictional heroes and heroines we blindly champion because they offer us no incentive to wake up and smell the coffee.
I like REAL characters, offensive or otherwise, and Sebold definitely showed us the other side of what a protagonist in a novel can be.
In fact, I surmise that Helen's character shares more in common with most people, much more than most people would ever want to admit.
“Alla fin fine, ammazzare mia madre mi è venuto facile”.Con un incipit così traumatizzante comincia la storia di Helen, figlia di una madre psichicamente instabile (aggravata da una vecchiaia demente) e portatrice di un debordante sentimento di odio-amore che viene via esplicitato, capito e giustificato dalla storia che Helen stessa ripercorre.Voce disperatamente lucida, voce pulsionale che produce gesti agiti direttamente dall’inconscio, voce che si spezza, si arrampica, si arrotola su di sé e poi si dispiega, in un ritmo che è allo stesso tempo serrato e disteso, tanto che la definizione di ‘thriller esistenziale’ è quanto mai calzante.Ecco che la madre, il corpo del desiderio primario, viene distrutta nell’illusione di potersene liberare, di annullarne il potere soggiogante, ma anche per il bisogno di vendicare un padre troppo amato, della cui fine la si ritiene responsabile.
Seems like a lot of people hated this book… I'm not one of them.
Admittedly the author leaves a lot of loose ends but I didn’t have a problem with that, enjoy a story that isn’t all tied up in a neat bundle – convinced Sebold made a deliberate choice in the ambiguous ending, a choice to leave it to the reader’s imagination."“I have never liked the phone.
Ten years ago, during a misguided fit of self-improvement, I pasted smiley-faced stickers on the phone in my bedroom and on the one in the kitchen.
In 2003, my brother bought me Alice Sebold's first novel, The Lovely Bones, for Christmas.
Unfortunately, like mental illness, this book is all over the place.
Her behavior is erratic and nonsensical, but instead of painting a picture of mental illness and its devastating effects, I simply found this book boring and irrelevant.
It doesn't seem like Sebold did much research into the area before she wrote this.
For those who have never read Sebold, please read The Lovely Bones.
For those who read The Lovely Bones and loved it as much as I did, DO NOT read this book.
Well, I googled on Alice Sebold to find out and discovered that Ms. Sebold was brutally raped while attending college at Syracuse University.
This book is about and told through the voice of Helen.
Helen grew up with a mentally ill mother and a father who turned out to be almost as ill.
Helen kills her 86 year old mother and the book follows Helen through the events that occur after the crime, as well as, Helen's thoughts of her past.
The rest is hiding just out of view, but there’s only one moon, so we follow it in the sky.
“When all is said and done, killing my mother came easily.”How’s that for an opening line?
Helen’s mother needed killing, and Helen was just the person to do it.
Sebold’s second novel, The Almost Moon, is the story of fifty-two-year-old Helen, whose father committed suicide when she was a teenager, and her spontaneous act of mercy/revenge on her eighty-year-old mother and the chaos that follows.
Many could never sympathize with the protagonist, Helen.I come down on the higher end of the ratings, largely because I was amazed by what Sebold did with narrative time.
I LOVED: The Lovely Bones, and although several people told me that this book was totally bizarre, I had to read it and judge for myself.Once I began Almost Moon, I could not put it down.
This dark, serious novel, made me smile on more than one occasion by the author's use of clever writing techniques.
I loved the way that the entire novel took place in a 24 hour period as well.Alice Sebold did not disappoint me with this latest GEM.
You will miss a unusually wonderful book!
This is one of the worst books I've read in a long time.
Sebold is such a talented writer that what she's done with this book is nothing short of a travesty.Am I supposed to feel sorry for Helen, the daughter of a mentally ill mother she ends up killing in her old age?
There isn't enough hurt and anguish in her for me to believe she did so out of long-simmering rage.
Am I supposed to feel outraged at the brutality of the act?
Am I supposed to believe that Helen acted out of her own mental illness?
Let me start off by saying that I love Alice Sebold.
'Lucky' and 'Lovely Bones' were two books that stayed with me long after I finished them.
I had read all the bad reviews of it and thought 'It can't be that bad.' Unfortunately, it was.
Was it because the story was about an unsympathetic narrator who kills her aged mother in the first chapter?
Perhaps.The rest of the story unfolds as Helen both revisits memories of growing up and deals with what she has done.Here is my advice: Don't bother reading this one.
If you want to read Alice Sebold, pick up either 'Lucky' or 'Lovely Bones' instead.
It contains only the ugly and devastating.The subject of this book is Helen, who quickly suffocates her mother in the first chapter, and takes the rest of the book to explain her actions, never becomes sympathetic.
And throughout the book we learn about morally questionable things Helen has done in the past as well as watch her commit even more crimes against humanity.
So I read this book in entirety with an ill feeling in my stomach.
I don't mind reading a dark book once in a while but I still want my reward.
Have a healthy relationship with your parents?
Then you probably won't relate to Helen, the protagonist who confesses to killing her mother in the first sentence of the novel.
Alice Sebold doesn't expect you to understand what Helen has done-- even Helen doesn't quite understand it fully.
Effort and compassion is needed just to start understanding the complexities of this mother-daughter relationship, and Sebold does a beautiful job exploring that aspect of an act that society condemns in a knee jerk.
Great imagery, as one comes to expect from Sebold and her friends (including Aimee Bender).
I always want to REALLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLY like her books, but this one was just "eh."
Disturbing. Probable yet improbable. Quirky. Curious. Eerie. As I first started getting into this my initial thought was that this was so absurd that I actually laughed. But when I thought about this premise more closely I realized it's not absurd at all. Just browse past any of the various true crime cable channels or even prime time nightly news stories and it will be affirmed that this story is not only disturbingly probable but could have been lifted or adapted from one of these re-enacted
The political news journalists like to focus on big city or inner city crimes when in all actuality a lot of the time it's in the suburbs of small town middle America where behind the picket fences and down the block of identically manicured lawns in a normal looking house lives a person who is crazy as hell.
Who often never get help because they live the illusion of normal and end up passing on damaged parenting to poor innocent children who in turn grow up, like mother like daughter carrying on the family traits of dysfunction, putting it nicely.
Helen, the narrator, opens the book by describing how she's killed her aging, mentally ill mother.
The rest of the narrative goes back and forth with Helen dealing with the shock that she actually did this and how she will proceed with her life after, and examining the life events in her dysfunctional, complicated family that led her to this point.
Helen appears to be determined to keep doing things that will shock others and destroy her relationships throughout the rest of the novel, for reasons which become obvious at the end.

