https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29239940-the-orphan-s-tale
Astrid, a German Jew from a circus family, falls in love and marries a German soldier, and the outcome is not a good one when she is forced to return home to find her family gone .
Enter the German circus owner Herr Neuhoff who will do what he can to save these Astrid, Noa and the baby that she rescued.I'm not sure why but I had a hard time feeling any connection to the characters and even their connections, relationships and friendships didn't grab me .
I read a lot of Holocaust novels and it always amazes me when I discover a completely different wartime perspective where brave men and women risked their lives to do the ‘right thing’ by hiding Jews knowing it would end with prison, torture or death for themselves if they were caught.
I liked the characters and enjoyed their story, but couldn’t quite get to the point of being completely engrossed in their lives and decisions in the latter half of the book.
!! NOW AVAILABLE !!At the age of 16, Noa is forced to leave the home of her parents, her family, when they notice her belly swelling with child.
She knows that to train this girl will require more time than they have, and she immediately resents Noa. For those that loved The Nightingale and / or Water for Elephants, this is being praised as a blend of the two stories.
There are elements of both in this, with Jenoff weaving an emotional, memorable tale of these lives.
Even when we fall in love, join lives together or marry, we are creating our own families, extensions of the ones we were raised in.
Eventually the circus becomes Noa’s family.
We also learn through The Author’s Note that this story was inspired by real people that the author met during her research for this novel and that the circus was a way to hide some Jewish people to help keep them safe during the Holocaust, although it was not a biography it was purely fiction.PAM JENOFF delivers an intriguing, fascinating, and beautifully written tale here told in dual points of view of our two main characters, Astrid and Noa. This is a tale about friendship, family, survival, bravery, secrets, and the sacrifices that these two characters faced during their time performing at the circus.
Mel·o·dra·maDEFINITION: a sensational dramatic piece with exaggerated characters and exciting events intended to appeal to the emotionsThis book felt like it was written by a novice writer, not a seasoned respected author. It was filled with unnecessary melodrama, incredibly simplistic dialogue and scenarios that were simply not believable. The setting was WWII and a traveling circus attempting to shelter several Jewish individuals. Do we really need extra drama?Don't believe the hype, this novel is not on par with Water for Elephants or The Nightingale. Not even in the same league.
Noa is a sixteen year old Dutch girl who cleans a German rail station in exchange for food and shelter.
She finds it filled with Jewish infants, some dead and some clinging to life.
Noa finds refuge with a traveling German circus troupe.
Astrid’s family ran a circus prior to the war and she is hiding her Jewish roots.
Both women have a difficult time connecting while they guard their precious secrets.
Over time their rivalry begins to breakdown and a bond develops.
This is an emotional tale of survival and courage during a difficult time in Europe.
As morbid as the subject is, I enjoy reading historical stories focusing on World War II and the horrible time in human history we must never forget and keep (hopefully) learning from.
Told through two main points of view, the ambitious story focuses on one woman who lost a child and reclaimed a new one when she runs into a new future, and another woman who is living in the present, hiding from her past, and refusing to think about the future.The biggest obstacle for me was the writing style.
But the decision she made on the night she heard noises from the rear car of a nearby train was to change her life forever.Snatching the baby from the train was a spur-of-the-moment decision; but Noa knew she had to run.
But Astrid didn’t want this girl with her – knew she wouldn’t be able to train her in just a matter of weeks to do something most people took a lifetime to learn.
And as they began their tour across war torn Europe, Noa and Astrid both wondered if they would be safe – what their future would be…The Orphan’s Tale by Pam Jenoff is interesting in that it’s based on two facts the author discovered in her research.
Noa, then trains to become an Aerialist alongside Astrid, intertwining the lives of Astrid, Noa, and baby Theo forever.Astrid, constantly fears for her life and has a hard time letting anyone in, though after her divorce, she finds love again with Peter.
The Orphan’s Tale is a story about two women, Astrid and Noa, and their friendship during a time when there is little hope for survival.
While I enjoyed the novel and thought that the characters were well developed, I didn’t truly connect with either Astrid or Noa. This may however, be due to the fact that I listened to an audiobook v.
Mais Dois Coelhos que Saltam da Cartola do HolocaustoNoa, Noa, que fizeste tu?!...Enrolaste-te com um Nazi e olha no que deu:Foste rejeitada pelos teus e nem a criança irás criar!...Mas, enfim!...
Errare humanum est, e o destino lá te compensou -- perdeste um, mas deste logo com outro:Um bebé judeu que surripiaste duma carruagem pejada deles -- estavam todos amontoados, espraiados num chão coberto de fezes e vomitado -- uns mortos e outros quase...
Que mais posso eu fazer?!...Podes fazer sim, Noa!E farás!...O judeuzinho agora é teu!
Heartbreaking and beautiful. Jenoff's best book yet!
★★★★It's Oscars weekend, and although it may seem like a superficial way to spend one's time, the awards show has spent the past 89 years recognizing the importance of entertaining the masses through the good times and the bad. This annual event has been held in spite of World War II, The Great Depression, and September 11, 2001 … or maybe the show marched on because of these tragedies. Entertainment provides escape and a needed morale boost during dark times. When you look back at entertainment
The Orphan's Tale follows the POV of two women: Noa and Astrid, both circus performers, who had something grave to lose during this time of Jewish persecution.
In a way, I guess these women were both orphans in a sense as well - cast aside by those they loved.
My only real complaint/distraction in this story was (view spoiler)[the insta-love between Noa and the mayor's son.
I understand that during historical times of war, love and marriage seemed to happen fast due to the daily life and death situations.
I received this beautifully written ARC as an unexpected surprise, and what a wonderful surprise it was! Bravery, sacrifice, and a traveling circus, this story of friendship and family during the most difficult of times is highly recommended for fans of WWII fiction. Wow, just wow!
Yes a little reminiscent of that powerful book The Nightingale by Kristin Hannah, however very different in its own right.The two women - Astrid a Jewish woman hiding and sheltered in a circus and Noa a younger woman who was cast out from her home in the Netherlands when she became pregnant.
When Noa stumbles into the care of the circus the two women forge a special relationship.
The courage of the circus to keep on going in such hard times, the hard work, the strong links to circus life that Astrid had and her love for and ability with the aerial work all drew me in.
A circus train.
War. It was a moving narrative guaranteed with an ending not to leave your eyes dry.In Germany, the Reich refused to recognize mixed marriages - Jews and Germans.
Astrid, a former circus performer, found herself not alone amongst the many marital lawbreakers.
Being a Jew in Nazi Germany had serious repercussions.
She sought refuge with an old friend, Herr Neuhoff - owner of his own circus.
Safety in numbers.The traveling train took the circus to towns throughout Germany and France.
Would that ultimately be his undoing?In those war-wracked years, circus life was in jeopardy.
In the war-scenario brilliantly crafted story on the friendship of Noa & Astrid.
Sacrificing selflessly for one another is the true friendship & that's what they truly depict.
This book is incredibly awesome, painstakingly beautiful & what a brilliant write up.
My first book related to circus but I feel it, live it, enjoy it fully as an aerialist.
And this book must be featured into a movie.
It's an excellent plot and I'm sure a brilliant movie could be made on it.So here's a superb script producers.
I'm 101% sure a great movie could be made from this 'Orphan's tale'.
I can see this book getting great reviews because it really is a sweet story, so for that I will give this an extra star, but overall, this didn’t work for me.
I love historical fiction and I love WWII historical fiction, so I was looking forward to this book.
I think I craved more detail and not the kind that describes the color of things.
I wanted emotion, dilemma, conflict.
While this book had some of that, I wanted more.
The characters and their actions were so predictable and they were all striving for the same thing so there wasn’t much variance there.
3.5 starsThe story for this World War 2 historical fiction book was unique and was definitely interesting enough for me to keep turning the pages.
However, while working together the two form a bond but with the war raging on, their friendship will be put to the test.After reading the Author's Note, I am glad she decided the story of these traveling circuses in the middle of a war, was one worth telling.
So I guess I would recommend this book to people looking for a unique story in the World War 2 historical fiction genre.
The circus owner kept up a good front and steered the Nazi soldiers from the Jewish performers he was hiding, but it was stressful for all.THE ORPHAN'S TALE is another beautifully written book by Ms. Jenoff revealing another not well-known fact about WWII.
I wasn't aware of traveling circuses during that time, but it seems like the perfect way to help keep​ ​some of the Jewish community safe and hidden during the Holocaust.​THE ORPHAN'S TALE smoothly flows from Noa's story to Astrid's as we learn about their lives and their secrets that they both are afraid to tell.​ Despite secrets, their friendship strengthens even though there is a thin line that may destroy it.I truly enjoyed THE ORPHAN'S TALE as I have enjoyed all of Ms. Jenoff's books.
Over the past couple of years I have developed a fondness for historical fiction.
Historical fiction has allowed me to learn about past events in a fun, exciting, and interesting way.
I wish my history teachers had incorporated books into their lesson plans.The Orphan's Tale is a story set in 1940s Germany and France during World War II.
I was never much of a fan of the circus even though I have never visited one, but books like this as well as The Night Circus and Water for Elephants make me want to go.
As time goes on, the two women begin to form an unlikely bond but the pressures of their secrets and past lives puts their own mortality, as well as those around them to the ultimate test of survival.The Orphan’s Tale has been compared to two historical fiction novels I love, Nightingale by Kristin Hannah and Water for Elephants by Sara Gruen.
It definitely gives more weight to this emotionally moving tale.Further appeal to The Orphan’s Tale comes out of the friendship that forms and is strengthened as the book progresses between Noa and Astrid.
Two More Rabits in the Holocaust HatHere is another book about WWII -- another great job unravelling a bit more of the Holocaust terror and atrocitiesIt brings together two real events I knew nothing about:A catle train crowded with anonimous jewish children who have been snatched from their parents, and a traveling circus that harbored JewsIt's about fear, love, courage, miracles and secrets -- people like us living a life pushed by circunstances; a life they didn't chose but had to be grateful for ("Thanks!
I was not disappointed to hear about Barnum and Bailey ending their 146 year run.
However, I’m always interested in reading novels about circuses.
So I was glad to hear that Pam Jenoff’s latest novel is also about a circus.
It reminds me of The Nightingale by Kristin Hannah, which was another powerful WWII/Holocaust novel.
I had no idea about the circuses that were around during WWII, so it was fascinating to learn something new and relevant.This is a beautifully told novel that you should add to your must-read list for 2017!Movie casting ideas:Astrid: Morena Baccarin or Rose ByrneNoa: Madeleine Arthur or Sophie Turner
There was a wonderful cast of characters both in the circus and also along their travels; the character development was superb.This book provoked such emotion, making the reader really feel the desperation, attachments and loss and hope in 1940s war time Europe.
I don't want to feel my emotions smoothed over for a more comfortable experience, I want to vicariously feel the experiences of these characters cast from real history....and I did.Pam Jenoff has excelled in her writing, concept, story and character development.
She got pregnant by a Nazi soldier, got kicked out of her home, had a baby that was taken from her and was trying to make a living by working in the train station.
Noa finds love with the son of a Nazi, and Astrid with Peter the political clown in the circus as together they protect and nourish baby Theo and each other while trying to make a life during wartime.Author, Pam Jenoff, paints the realistic picture of desperation as she shows us how so many people were orphaned, separated from family and committed to making an acceptable life be developing connections, setting goals and being open to falling in love during such desolate and dangerous times.
Soon she is cast from there as well and takes refuge at a train station where one night, Noa stumbles upon a railcar filled with Jewish babies heading to a concentration camp.
It is proposed by the ringmaster that Noa work on the trapizee with the talented Astrid.Astrid is the daughter of a family of German Jews who were very successful circus performers.
In this book, I really loved the character of Astrid, but Noa grated on my nerves from time to time.
I didn't care for the romance that develops between Noa and another character because it seemed unnecessary to everything else that was happening.
Needless to say, this one didn't quite hit the mark for me.Noa- a 16 year old gets kicked out of her house for getting pregnant is living in the train station as a cleaner, and stumbles across the most horrific scene in a novel I have ever come across.
She suddenly finds herself on the run again and ends up joining the circus!
(bet you didn't see that coming!) Enter Astrid- an aerialist that was born to fly.
So many of the plot points felt rushed which made them unrealistic- to the point where I actually starting rolling my eyes (a la Astrid).
I am crying over the lives lost during this horrific time in history but I am also crying because this book was so wonderful and so beautifully written.Noa was kicked out of her house at 16 when she became pregnant by a German soldier and she found a job cleaning a railway station.
As the two women train together, they become friends and then sisters as they try to remain hidden from the Nazi regime.The characters in this novel are fantastic and their lives in the circus was very informative.
The circus becomes one of the characters and is a microcosm of life during war time in Europe.
I really enjoyed this World War II novel with a different setting. I knew nothing of the German traveling circus, nor the fact that it hid Jews amongst its performers during the war. I thought the book did an especially good job of showing how the war impacted not just Jews, but those associated with Jews, and to a lesser extent, all German citizens. A beautiful story of family, friendship, and trust. This is my first novel by this author, but it won't be my last.
I guess I didn't realize just how much of this story takes place in the circus (in Nazi Germany and France).
I think I expected more about the orphans, taking the title too literally perhaps.
I loved that other circus book, Water for Elephants, but mainly because it had that wonderful elephant, Rosie.
This book has a lot of circus going on, and I thought it would have been more interesting with more about those orphan babies.
It was still a lovely story of relationships, especially an unusual, difficult friendship between the two women.
But this probably won't be as memorable to me as that other circus book.
