https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/432.City_of_Glass
Paul Auster's City of Glass reads like Raymond Chandler on Derrida, that is, a hard-boiled detective novel seasoned with a healthy dose of postmodernist themes, a novel about main character Daniel Quinn as he walks the streets of uptown New York City.
By way of example, here are three quotes from the novel coupled with key concepts from the postmodern tradition along with my brief commentary.On the first pages of the novel, the narrator conveys mystery writer Quinn's reflections on William Wilson, his literary pseudonym and Max Work, the detective in his novels.
And the story the narrator relates from Quinn's red notebook is City of Glass by Paul Auster.
219. The New York Trilogy: City of Glass (New York Trilogy #1), Paul AusterCity of Glass, features a detective-fiction writer become private investigator who descends into madness as he becomes embroiled in a case. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه اکتبر سال 2010 میلادیعنوان: شهر شیشه ای؛ پل آستر، مترجم: خجسته کیهان؛ تهران، کتابهای ارغوانی، 1380، در 160 ص؛ شابک: ایکس - 964920637؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، افق، 1394، در 203 ص؛ شابک: 9789643698768؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 معنوان: شهر شیشه ای؛ پل
شخصیت اصلی رمان «شهر شیشه‌ ای»، «دانیل کوئین» نام دارد.
ایشان نویسنده‌ ای ست که با نام مستعار «ویلیام ویلسون»، داستان‌های پلیسی و کارآگاهی می‌نویسد.
کوئین، به واسطه کارگزار خود، داستان‌هایش را به چاپ می‌رساند، در نتیجه کسی از هویت (نام کوئین) ایشان آگاهی ندارد.
شخصیت اصلی رمان‌های کوئین «ورک» نام دارد.
روزی یکی با خانه ی کوئین تماس می‌گیرد و به دنبال کارآگاه خصوصی با نام استر می‌گردد.
کوئین تصمیم می‌گیرد، برای مسخره کردن و دست انداختن فرد پشت خط، خود را به جای استر جا بزند.
از اینجا به بعد است، که هویتی دیگر، بر ایشان افزون، و او مجبور می‌شود نقش کارآگاهی خصوصی را بازی کند.
Paul Auster, a guy who ushers you into the silky interior of his brand new Nissan Infiniti, makes sure you've got your seatbelt on, proffers bonbons, then drives you to distraction.This book is in contravention of TWO of PB's commandments:- Thou shalt not have a character in thy book with thy own name- Thou shalt not portray the writing of a novel within thy novel such that the novel within the novel turns out to be the novel the reader is reading
Or perhaps they cancelled each other out perfectly, leaving a space empty of language(s), and in its place a kind of pure expression.This attempt to reconcile meaning (being) and absence (nothingness) is the center of this Auster novel (if not his entire body of work), in which a man (a novelist), mistaken for another man (a detective), becomes that man, and then disappears.
I devoured everything I could of Auster's, and continue reading his novels to this day.
دانیل کوئین یه نویسنده ی کتابای پلیسی و کاراگاهیه که توی چند نیمه شب پیاپی تلفن خونش زنگ میخوره و کسی به دنبال یه کاراگاه خصوصی به نام "پل استر" میگرده.
بعد از چندبار تماس پیاپی طی چند شب، کوئین تصمیم میگیره خودش رو پل استر معرفی کنه و همین موضوع اونو درگیر مسائل متعددی می کنه.
کتاب بیش از اونکه مرتبط با این پرونده باشه، تحولات شخصیتی کوئین رو بررسی می کنه.کتاب خیلی خاص و متفاوتیه و احتمالا به سلیقه ی کسایی که داستان رو فقط برای فهمیدن اینکه اخرش چی میشه!
نمادایی که میشه از هرکدومشون تفاسیر متعددی داشت..
His real-life case, far from being an extreme case of text-to-self transference, seems to illustrate a larger truth about a dark power inherent in language, wherein word-reality has a supernatural ability to leap over cognitive barriers to create and destroy human experience.If you're still reading this review, you may wonder if the story is really just about a guy who has a pretty straightforward psychotic break.
Each character accepts their tragedy without question, first acceding the roles of "detective," "madman," and "victim," then "bum," "corpse," and "missing person." As this fatal flaw unravels the protagonist's author-life, the reader recalls the mysterious deaths described by Auster at the beginning of the story.
I call it bullshit.Basically there's this writer, Quinn, who gets a mysterious call looking for a detective called Paul Auster (Auster, the author, is apparently the sort of author who includes himself as a character in his books...sigh).
Quinn of course takes on both the case and Auster's identity.
Auster abandons the heretofore somewhat interesting case, getting rid of all its characters in singularly unspectacular fashion, in favor of an identity crisis for the narrator.
Quinn/Auster is so confused about his identities that he is driven insane.
اون چیزایی که برای من جالب بود یکی بحث تحولات درونی کوئین بود و دیگری ارجاعات بیرون متنی استر - چه ارجاعات واقعی چه خیالی. داستان هم واقعا کشش دارهترجمه ترجمه ی روون و خوبیه اما بی اشکال نیست - متاسفانه اشتباهات لپی داره مثلا ترجمه نکردن بعضی کلمات یا اشتباه دیدن یه کلمه. به نظرم هر جا دیدین ترجمه منطقا جور نیست یا زیادی مغلقه به اصلش نگاه کنید. اما به هر حال این اشکالات تا آنجا که من دیدم فراوان نیست. مترجم یه مقدمه ی چند بندی هم نوشته که بی سر و تهه
هر دو بار هم نزدیک بود یادم بره سر ایستگاه پیاده شم.
اولین کتابی بود که از این نویسنده می خوندم و واقعا عجیب بود این سبک برام.
بازی های نویسنده با جملات در حدی گمراه کننده بود که چند بار رفتم و متن اصل رو چک کردم و تطبیق دادم.
حقیقتا ترجمه بد نبود، ولی نمی شد این کتاب رو دقیقا با همون تاثیر اصل کتاب ترجمه کرد.
+ خیلی برام جالب بود که یه سری چیزایی که معمولا توی ترجمه سانسور میشه رو کامل آورده بودن ولی شراب رو ترجمه کرده بودن نوشابه =)) خنده دار بود :-"
I find that I don't know what on earth to say about City of Glass.
Perhaps that will resolve itself as I read the rest of this trilogy.
I was intrigued by it, at times confused; I found it easy to read, but very quiet, muted.
It doesn't spark off the page and leap about, at all.
It sounds as if it's going to be very strange and dramatic, and yet it quietly slims down -- in the way the main character does -- to something else entirely.
And what that thing is, I haven't figured out.Like I said, perhaps I'll understand this better when I read the rest.
Not a real review. Just some random selection from my notes. Hope I can clarify some things for myself 'cause the book stymied me. Stymied, I says!May contain spoilers. Probably. I have no idea, man. Just to be safe, though, I don't think anyone oughta be reading this.1. Our main character, Daniel Quinn, wrote a series of detective novels using the moniker William Wilson. The detective's name was Max Work. When Quinn went to see Peter Stillman, he said his name was Paul Auster.(Just a vessel for
Like Peter Sellers.)For your consideration (all from chapter 1, so not spoilers):"Quinn was no longer that part of him that could write books, and although in many ways Quinn continued to exist, he no longer existed for anyone but himself."--"William Wilson, after all, was an invention, and even though he had been born within Quinn himself, he now led an independent life."--"He (Quinn) had, of course, long ago stopped thinking of himself as real.
After the long discussion about Quixote and Cervantes, Daniel Quinn met Daniel Auster, Paul's little boy.
In the interview he described getting a phone call, after the novel was published, by a man asking for Quinn (the character in City of Glass who takes on the identity of Paul Auster).
At times, it seems like he is more interested in exploring identity, whether it is that of his characters or overtly himself, instead of telling a complete story.
Plot is sacrificed for style, and postmodernism and metafiction shape the writing.The novel starts with Daniel Quinn receiving a phone call asking for Paul Auster, the detective.
At a nearby bookstore I picked out this one due to the cover attracting me.
Up until then I read books of realism mostly plot driven.
Our next stop was further out in the countryside with no bookstore in sight.
I tried Auster's book again and after a few pages I fell in love with it.
Thus began my ever growing interest in reading a different kind of writing.So I went back to this book as a reunion.
Other than some sentimentality, some peeks at enjoyment, it was mainly bare leaving me at the end feeling the same way.
The feeling of that first literary thrill is now gone.
Auster's first novel/second book/first of his 'New York Trilogy', 'City of Glass' is simultaneously a detective novel, an exploration of the author/narrative dynamic, and a treatise on language.
My favorite parts were the chapters where Auster (actual author Auster) through the narrator Quinn acting as the detective Auster explored Stillman's book: 'The Garden and the Tower: Early Visions of the New World'.
I also enjoyed the chapter where Auster (character Auster) and Quinn (acting as detective Auster) explored Auster's (character Auster) Don Quixote ideas.
I'll say more once I finish the next two of the 'New York Trilogy'.
His wife and nurse, Virginia is the one who has sought help.Starting as straight forward investigation, soon we are lost in a world of Doppelganger and something almost resembling magical realism.I was thoroughly immersed in this mesmerising world and didn't want to come out.
Just goes to show how good of a writer Paul Auster is. Writers like him and Cormac McCarthy get away with writing stories that I can't imagine writing, let alone understanding how to keep the momentum. The protagonist, Daniel Quinn (mistaken for Paul Auster), even in his most unbelievable moments, stays believable. The metafictional aspect of this book combined with the mystery novel nature was an intriguing cerebral mind fuck that kept me reading frantically. Not a book for plot cravers (not at least in the traditional plot...big action kind of way).
I had mixed feelings going into this novel given Auster's ambiguous relationship with critics; but he pulls a rabbit out of a hat here, weaving a metaphysical "detective" novel that might be considered a primer for postmodernism.
All the elements are here: the author appearing as a character, questions about what is real, works-within-the-work, etc.
A great primer for anyone interested in the postmodernist novel; for the experienced, the only downside is that you feel at times that you're reading a book you've already read--The Unnamable meets Don Quixote meets A Farewell to Arms.
“bir nesne işlevini artık yerine getirmezse ne olur? hâlâ o nesne midir yoksa başka bir şey mi olmuştur?”
And in some cases, he is subtle enough that one doesn't even recognize what has been done until later, under reflection.There were times when I thought I was going to love City of Glass (especially in the introduction of his quadpartite character and in his exploration of the most famous ziggurat of all history).
And then there was the rest of the time, when I was less concerned with what was going on narratively and more concerned with what Auster was trying to do on a literary level.Generally, I'd say being taken out of the story in order to consider the work of the story a flaw.
Велика работа...
Ve güzel bir kitabın ardından aklımı kurcalayan yine aynı soru; "NEDEN BEN BU KİTABI DAHA ÖNCE OKUMADIM!?"Cam Kent Paul Auster'ın ilk romanı olarak geçiyor.
Beni tanıyanlar Murakami ile love/hate ilişkimiz olduğunu bilir ve kitabı okurken bir an dedim ki "bunu Murakami mi yazmış acaba?" Yazım tarzları ve olayı ele alışları o kadar çok benziyordu ki kitabı sevmemiş olsam da sırf bu yazım tarzı için yüksek puan verirdim ama kitabı sevdim.
Şu an oturup bütün Paul Auster kitaplarını okumak istiyorum o kadar çok sevdim ki hemen seriye de devam edeceğim bu gazla gün içerisinde bitireceğim gibi duruyor.
We witness a man's fall in a unique unconventional narrative involving all sorts of sad lost souls who may or may not even exist in the first place.
Within itself, that is obviously an odd premise for a mystery novel, but Auster takes it to heights of an even more bizarre and unpredictable nature as he includes himself as a character in the novel, randomly switches from third to first person at the very, very end, speaking from the point of view of a previously unknown character, and has his text directly reference and uniquely parallel Miguel de Cervantes' immortal masterpiece Don Quixote.
It's one of those books where you read the critic's reviews and you think- what in God's name are they talking about??
BORING.More than anything-this book lets you see the pretentiousness of New York critics.
It's all half baked characters and ridiculous plots and boring descriptionsI've read several of Paul Auster's books now and 2 of them are good.But forgive me I wouldn't write a good review for this guy if you paid me.
As far as I can see this book is more an expose of the critics' pretentious gobbley gook than it is of anything else.
There are parts I still don't quite understand.My 5 star review: This library book had been calling me from the shelf for so long, I finally gave in and read the thing.
As it turns out, this was the perfect time to read it, because this very eerie book very eerily corresponds to other things I've been reading lately.
Auster's novel ties itself in knots, making you think about language, identity, voice and authorship.
There are parts I still don't quite understand.And finally...My 4 star review: I don't think I'll read the rest of the trilogy, but I liked this and I'm glad I read it.
Πρώτη επαφή με τον Οστερ και σίγουρα όχι η τελευταία! Εξαιρετικό βιβλιο, πολυ ενδιαφέρουσα η πλοκή και σίγουρα πρωτότυπη!
He didn't think too long before he pointed me towards this short weird book.Imagine that David Lynch and Haruki Murakami got punchy one night and decided to write a noir detective novel together.
And Quinn at first is all like "I'm not Paul Auster", but then a little later he's all like "yeah, sure, I'm Paul Auster" and he jumps head first into doing some detective stuff.Then the book kind of gets odd.I feel pretty good about feeling confused, which means I tend to enjoy weird books and movies.
It's a pretty short book, but it will support a lot of pondering.
Absolutely incredible book.
To simply describe it as a NY detective story would be an epic understatement.
Paul Auster has been one of the authors I've discovered this year and he continues to amaze me.
The man is a natural storyteller and he weaves his stories with such cleverness and ease and warmth.
His stories are interesting in the way that M.C. Escher's art is, particularly in this case it reminded me of the Drawing Hands, the way the author so cleverly wrote himself into the story, the multitude of layers this story holds and how it all comes together seamlessly.
خیلی خوشخون و جذاب بود.پر از جمله های کوتیشن مانندی که دوسشون داشتم.استر همیشه نویسنده ی جذابی بوده که خوب بلده معما طرح کنه و تو رو دنبال خودش بکشونه.کمتر از یه روز و نیم طول کشید خوندنش اونم در شرایطی که 5 دقیقه یه بار یکی صدام میکرد یا مزاحم میشد.وگرنه کمترم طول میکشید.
Terrific writing. I love his prose.
Plutôt que de vous philosopher au milieu d'un roman conventionnel, comme Kundera. Auster place ses personnages dans des situations philosophiques. Une réflexion sur l'Identité, la place d'un individu en ce monde et ses différentes possibilités d'être qui il veux, de s'oublier totalement au point parfois de devenir un autre.Bref pas évident à appréhender mais ULTRA COUP DE COEUR ! 5/5
