https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2217845.History_of_the_Filipino_People
This was the textbook that we used in our mandatory Philippine History course in university.
I don't know where my copy is now (I need to look for it in some forgotten box somewhere), but I remember how informative this book was, and not in a boring way.
A historian friend of mine once told me that history sometimes depends on the perspective of the person/historian who wrote it; in this case, Agoncillo's book can serve as a good starting point to begin to explore the very interesting history of the Filipino people.
yawa di nako mabasa
HEKASI, Kasaysayan, Social Studies - mga naging paboritong subject ko nung araw.
Dates lang kung kelan namatay si ganito, piniramahan ang isang kasulatang ganire, ilang barko ang natira sa expedisyon ni Magellan, ilan ang naging girlfriend ni Rizal bago naging sila ni Josephine Bracken, saan pinunit ang sedula etc.
Pag kasaysayan, memorizatipon lang ang katapat, un ang akala ko.
To further explain, for example, kung pumayag ba si Rizal sa gusto ni Bonifacio, mas napadali ba ang rebolusyon?
Naging clear kung anu meaning ng salitang kasaysayan -  kuwentong may saysay.
Maganda kung magagamit ito hindi lang sa curriculum sa college kundi maging sa hayskul man.
This book is great for individual person who is craving to know the history of the Filipino people. Its a nice book to read throughout and it is filled with valuable information.
This is the only history book I've read from cover to cover (and it wasn't even required reading in school!).
i want to read this book ..
so historical
interesting
about some history of the philippines
History of the Filipino People
i think i need this book because i want to have more knowledge in our Filipino history
Paano ko mababasa?
Pwede ba to basahin Online ? Thanks sa feedback :)
i can read it..
nice
i wanna read this book
this is awesome!
this is the best book
insght to a part of the world I find very interesting. Great to learn about these interesting people, a good education and enjoyable book, good for anybody studying history in education
I need to read this book...
This was a very exciting book. I would recommend it to my class.
aasdsad
need to search the history of the filipino
i think this help my hist 1 if im going to read this.
had fun!
...
Can't read it. Why?
my link textHistory of the Filipino PeopleTeodoro A. Agoncillo...
Required reading for my History class back in college. I used to despise reading this because it felt like a chore, knowing that I need to remember details for the exams. I want to read it again and enjoy it this time.
k
