https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46815.Wasted
People who have suffered from EDs will complain that this book is packed full of triggers, but so is America's Next Top Model, and I can't say anything about the quality of THAT writing.
This book is a genuine, gripping story of a youth literally thrown away in favor of madness.
For anyone who has not suffered from some incarnation of disordered eating, it will seem surreal, and at times, utterly unbelievable.
She goes through an utterly excruciating journey, and finally comes out the other end- not intact, and not happily ever after, but alive.It is both victorious and tragic, disturbing and moving, and I cannot recommend it highly enough.
eta: i think it's important to note that this book was first published in 1998 - when things like tumblr did not exist.
and i do think it's important for people with EDs, i just don't like the framing all that much.
hornbacher isn't 100% committed to getting better at the end of this.
for the ED audience, the book is literally packed with tricks and tips and ways to cheat and get around your doctors.
hornbacher claims that the point of writing the book was to deglamourize EDs. the problem is, even she, at the end of the book, has not fully committed to giving up her ED.
People who have suffered anorexic --(or been a parent of a child) --'lived' this life deeply may 'not' want to read this book.
'diet' was NOT being considered ---(they were being 'forced' to eat anything given to them --dead -processed hospital food) --- We've learned these people (more than most) ---need a very 'clean' whole food diet ---(allergy checking--etc).I hope to god this author, Marya is doing well today.
Our own daughter (who suffered for 14 years) ---is THRIVING --doing WONDERFUL --- She healed herself HER way!
Wishing all that suffer with eating disorders to get the help THEY need to get well!
It was delicious.So this is a memoir of the author's ten-year struggle with bulimia and anorexia.
I found it different from other works I've read on eating disorders, in that the author doesn't go for easy explanations of why she almost killed herself.
She was really, acutely mentally ill, and that recovery is as big a problem as the physical illnesses associated with the eating disorder.I found the book self-indulgent, arrogant, and obnoxiously smug in places, but honest and lacerating in others.
I was curious when I finished if the author is still alive, because the book was published almost 10 years ago.
She holds nothing back in this memoir, sharing the immense pain that accompanies anorexia and bulimia: the preoccupation with calories that takes over your life, the obsession with food that steals your energy from your passions, and the shame and guilt that comes with not feeling strong enough to resist your disorder.
Here is one quote about the emotional upheaval that often underlies and contributes to the development of eating disorders:"All of us carry around countless bags of dusty old knickknacks dated from childhood: collected resentments, long lists of wounds of greater or lesser significance, glorified memories, absolute certainties that later turn out to be wrong.
Marya is a fantastic fucking memoirist.
There are a couple reasons this is all the more incredible: First, that she'd found such a voice and command of prose at 23, and second, that a 23 year-old would have lived a life worth writing about.
The language is appropriately jagged, with short, sharp sentences, embodying a sparse, terrifying narrative of the scattered moments recalling her gradual and deliberate self-destruction.She spares no one, including herself, in her examination of the causes and effects of her disorder.
She stops briefly, as objectively as a memoirist could be expected to, on the childhood memories that grew to define her outlook.
It's possible, she allows, that there's no environmental cause at all.
I'm ambivalent about this book.
Certainly, at times, she pulled no punches...yet at other times, still a bit under the sway of her disorder, she seemed to be bragging about her "successes" in the extremes of her eating disorder.
In many ways, it helped me understand how eating disorders work.
In other ways (again, I'm sure unintentional on the author's part), I began to understand how eating disorders and personality disorders can often go hand in hand.
But by the end of the book, I just really didn't like her very much.
It felt a bit like that.
I, especially, think the last 20 pages of her book are very powerful.
If Lynne Truss (author of grammar book, Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation) were to see this book I fear she would fall into cardiac arrest.
Other times, as I just read, the footnote is nearly half a page long and just seems like she should have included it in regular print as a part of her story.
"2) "Bear in mind, people with eating disorders tend to be both competitive and intelligent.
However keep reading because unlike Prozac Nation this book actually gets pretty good as time goes on and you get into the shocking rock-bottom details of her eating disorder.
However, the ending left me yearning for a little bit more.Another thing that is totally off-putting about this book is that it is A MAJOR TRIGGER for people with eating disorders.
The book is good but it left me wondering why someone who has been through what she has would write such a thing!
God, there is nothing more tedious than a personal narrative that just goes on and on and on.
I admire Ms. Hornbacher's willingness to put everything out there, but I find much of what she writes terribly suspect.
Reading it from a non-eating-disordered perspective, I had to wonder if people who had been through this picked it up and thought "wow, that's just what I went through" or "hey, what a good idea, I never thought of doing that".
Plus I'm not sure if the fact she's not yet over her illness helps or hurts her point.
I apologize if that sounds heartless.
Although I can see why so many like this book, I found it to be dangerous. As an anorexic I found the book great because it had tips in it. This is dangerous though also can be good to read for people trying to live with an anorexic or people who don't have this disease. Definatly not a book for someone in the throes of an ED to read.
They said it contained "tips" and should not be read by people with an ED.
First of all, people with an ED figure out the "tips" by themselves sooner or later.
I'm not saying it's a good thing—I'm just saying this isn't a solid reason to censor this book or to warn people away from it.
Recovering anorexics/bulimics, however, should stay far, far away from this book.
Some people never truly recover.
Though it irked some people, I thought it was done pretty well.
These bags define us.""I as many young women do, honest-to-goodness believed that once I Just Lost a Few Pounds, somehow I would suddenly be a New You, I would have Ken-doll men chasing my thin legs down with bouquets of flowers on the street, I would become rich and famous and glamorous and lose my freckles and become blond and five foot ten.""When you believe that you are not worthwhile in and of yourself, in the back of your mind you also begin to believe that life is not worthwhile in and of itself.""And as I would do for years to come, I got angry at the people who loved me the most and therefore pulled no punches.
LOLI was expected a story about this woman's struggle with ED.And yeah, it kind of was, but then it kind of wasn't.Only a very small portion of the book is her actually owning up to her own personal issues & experiences.
etc) Not very much "I" at all.Instead we have a book full of her being totally dissociated from the entire ED.
Instead of "I" it's all "You"....
And since I was buying a book advertised as a memoir, I'm expecting a lot of "I" descriptions & stories.
I couldn't warm up to her story at all.
Ok, I read this a long time ago, but it's still quite possibly the best book on eating disorders -- or even on adolescent mental illness -- that I've ever read.
Hornbacher is intelligent, avoids cliches and above all, avoids making herself sound good when she can tell the truth instead.
A bracing departure from the "girls can't help starving themselves to death when they see all those models in those glossy magazines" line of thinking about eating disorders -- a line of thinking that treats those suffering from eating disorders as helpless and mindlessly programmable, rather than as complicated human beings.
Nes viskas ką siaubingiausio gali "padovanoti" šie sutrikimai - knygos autorei "padovanota" ir buvo.Greičiausiai visi daugmaž žinom kas ir apie ką yra šios ligos.
Knygos gale yra visos nuorodos į šaltinius."Valgymo sutrikimai labai ilgai tūno nepastebėti , tylomis grauždami kūną, o tada - smūgis.
Jei nuo mažens šeimoje nėra tradicijos kartu valgyti prie vieno stalo, kartu mėgautis maistu - tai galimas veiksnys į paauglio ar vaiko mitybos sutrikimus.
Norėdama pasauliui parodyti, jog ji yra tvirtesnė ir stipresnė nei jis kūniški poreikiai, ji beveik nieko nevalgė, daug sportavo, kol galų gale atsidūrė ligoninėje.
Marya išdrįso aprašyti savo istoriją, nors kaip pati teigė - tai buvo be proto sunku.
I can't tell the story for all of us.'Hornbacher is incredibly frank, and much of her writing about eating disorders is highly psychological.
It was my job to act like I loved them both best - when the other one wasn't around.' She does detail her mother's own neuroses with eating, determined as she was to stay thin, and never eating more than half of the food on her plate.One of the most remarkable things about Wasted is that Hornbacher was only twenty-three when it was written; it is one of the most eloquent memoirs which I have ever read.
just a little reminder:you're beautiful.you're worth it.you're more than your body, your weight, your thoughts.you're allowed to eat.you deserve to eat.[TRIGGER WARNING FUCKING TRIGGER WARNING]as someone who is currently struggling to kick my eating disorder ass, i can say that this book triggered me a lot.
you want to eat and smile and just live your fucking life but, at the same time, you just want to starve till your heart stops or to throw up till blood is all you can see.
maybe then you feel better.
nothing will ever be enough to your eating disorder.
you deserve feeling alive.
Una malattia che comporta una fame cronica, assordante, chiamata mancanza di appetito.
Sembra una presa in giro.Sprecata, tutto sta già nel titolo, che comunque é un giudizio che solo la Hornbacher ha il diritto di dare alla propria, fin qui, breve vita.Rispetto al suo, posteriore, "Una vita bipolare", questa sua testimonianza mostra tutta l'urgenza dello scrivere, del mettere per iscritto quanto avvenuto e quanto compreso rispetto alla propria malattia.
She ends her memoir telling you she was not magically "cured" and that she will probably have to deal with her disorder's struggles for the rest of her life, however long or short that might be, she has to take it one day at a time.
And that I am afraid is probably more real to life than most of the feel-good endings we're all used to reading where the "hero" conquers all.
Any book that changes my outlook on the world or the things around me automatically gets an extra half a star!
This book is unquestionably very well-written and fascinating, yet I struggled with how many stars to give it.The author is, quite simply, a rather unlikable person.
I hate looking at her photo on the cover, I’m glad I don’t know her, and I don’t really wish her well.
This was troubling to me because it seems one should like (or at least have empathy for) the character one is reading about, particularly if the book is a memoir.
Should feeling empathy for the author of a memoir be a prerequisite for a 4- or 5-star rating?
The writing is indisputably excellent.
The author of Wasted, Marya Hornbacher, recalls the early and continual knotting and tangling up of her early childhood, her parents, her family and later, her prep school and college dysfunctional experience and how these all play a part in her developing and nurturing an eating disorder.She is a strong writer but in a very different way as compared unfortunately to Elizabeth Gilbert.
It wasn't rewarding in a feel-good way that some books are, but I was so happy to see that she didn't die, for one thing, and achieved a measure of personal and even more professional success.
Šiurpi ir pobjaurė knyga, kaip ir visos kitos kūniškos knygos apie ligas. Nėra nei malonu, nei lengva skaityti apie panieką savo kūnui, silpnumą, svaigstančią galvą, permatomą odą, paukščio kaulus ir t.t., ir pan. Apie žaidimą su maistu iš viso tyliu.Užtat labai svarbu perskaityti ir suprasti, kad valgymo sutrikimai, nors ir labai paveikti dabartinės kultūros, neprasideda nuo noro patikti konkrečiam berniukui/vaikinui/vyrui ar nuo nevilties, kad konkrečiam berniukui/vaikinui/vyrui nepatinki, kad tai nėra vien išmislas ir kad pamilti save toli gražu nėra taip lengva, kaip norėtųsi.
WASTED is one of those books that will have you shaking your head and mumbling to yourself, "oh my god, that is insane." As detailed in this book, eating disorders are indeed a type of mental illness.
Just as you cannot tell a person with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder to "just get over it," the same with eating disorders.
The ending of this book was rather up in the air.
We get the picture that the author was still struggling a great deal.
However, I am happy to report that she is very much alive and now at a healthy weight and has written several other books.
Humorously, Hornbacher neglects to address why, if this is so, she thought that writing a memoir was a good idea; presumably audiences are looking for some insight into, um, her emotional state.
Although I am younger than she was at the time (and I don’t presume for a second I could write nearly as well), I can’t help but feel perhaps the text would have benefited from some time between the occurrence of the events detailed and the book’s publication.
Then again, I take it from her next memoir, Madness, that Hornbacher didn’t actually find any modicum of peace for quite some time, so perhaps not.
This book will haunt you, I promise you.
The author chronicles her struggle with anorexia and bulimia (which she calls a combined disorder of "bulimarexia") but her language is captivating.
As you read the book you will be by turns morbidly fascinated and repulsed.
Later in the doctor's office, he tells her she needs to be admitted immediately.
He tells her she could have a heart attack walking out of the clinic, and she examines the statement objectively, and almost without emotion, and finally accedes to being admitted.
When I read Wasted I was 16/17 and obsessed with my weight.
I knew the book had critics who said that it shouldn't be read by people with eating disorders because it was filled with tips and because Hornbacher was equivocal when it came to getting better.
I scoffed at them.I'm older now and if not better, then at least different, and I do have a more troubled view of the book.
Is this a good book, yes, absolutely.
Well, the modern world is full of artifacts that will exacerbate eating disorders.
Wasted's real potential threat is that it teaches you how to hide the problem.
Although I don't have an eating disorder, I could identify with some of the things Marya says here. She's very honest and doesn't try to sugar-coat anorexia or bulimia. In truth, you never fully recover from these conditions, and you can see her struggle with her past and her future in every page. I recommend this book to people wanting to understand eating disorders, to relatives of someone with anorexia, and to pepple who want a good, real read. This gets very Painful to read at times.
This book was interesting and gives readers a glimpse into a disease (disorder?) that nearly killed Marya until she got control of her life again. Genuine and realistic, Wasted is really worth reading.
And I'm stunned to think that I started reading with caution; having had a very long history with eating disorders, and fucked up body-image: I read reviews that said that this book may trigger, and hell; I'm easily triggered.
This book is the best thing anyone fantasising about eating disorders could possibly read.
If this was put into my hands when I was twelve, besides having nightmares; I would have immediately tucked into a plate of eclairs and never, ever looked back.Reading this book, you step right inside the head of eating disordered thinking.
