https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/630761.Always_Room_for_One_More
I put this in the Childrens' book category because that's the section I got it in, but it's not for the younger kids. It's an old Scottish song that had never been written down, put down into a book with simple, muted illustrations. I saw that this book had won a Caldecott Award, so I figured I'd check it out. I liked it a lot, but our girls quickly lost interest. This book was selected as one of the books for the April 2015 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
I like this Scottish tale better than All in the Morning Early - possibly because it’s illustrated by someone else, possibly because I just liked the story and the rhythm better in this one.
My favorite thing about the illustrations is the way the people are drawn with little cross-hatched lines.
It gives the book a homemade feel that I really like and also somehow makes the figures seem more lively, as though they are in motion on the page.
I was also really interested in the glossary at the back of the book, which explains all the Scottish words the author uses.
Lachie is a generous host, and even when his house is literally full to bursting, he doesn’t despair, and everyone to whom he’s offered shelter pitches in to help him build a bigger and better house, where once again “There’s always room for one more.”The author explains in a note at the end of the book that some of the words were changed to make it more understandable for American children, but other Scottish words were kept because there simply wasn’t a reasonable English alternative.
Caldecott winning illustration of an old Scottish folk song. There is a glossary and music for the song, which is a nice touch, and the cross hatch illustrations are interesting, but the rhythm is a little off. Some words were changed from the old Scottish into something a little more recognizable, and I suspect it would scan better without changes.
It is a book inspired by a popular Scottish song.
Grade level, interest level, lexile (1 pt)This would be a fun book for grades Kindergarten to 2nd.
The words would be a little hard for the students to read themselves.
Appropriate classroom use (subject area) (1 pt)I would read this book aloud to my class as a part of reading and/or story time.
Whole class use (read aloud) (1 pt)I would definitely read this book to them as a class and come up with an activity to go with it.
I think it would be fun for all of them to read.7.
This book also rhymes has an order to who came in the house and goes backwards later which I think is cool.
Grade level: K-3Appropriate classroom use: This book would be good to show students which words rhyme.
This book also has a good message, to be open and welcome to people and willing to make more room even if you run out of it.
students who benefit: Students who could learn a lesson like this while work on their reading skills and rhyming skills.Small group use: Literature circles could be used, also learning stations.
Whole class use: This would be an appropriate book to read aloud.
• Book summary-This book teaches students about sharing, through a lovely story. Lachie maclachlan lived in a little house with his wife and 10 bairns. They decided to share everything they have due to a storm outside. Many people stopped and came in. Lachie said there was always room for one more. The little house could not take the amount of people within, so it broke apart. Everyone then decided to rebuild it for the kind man. • Caldecott Medal• Grade level, interest level, Lexile-K-2 • Appro
•	Book summary-This book teaches students about sharing, through a lovely story.
Lachie maclachlan lived in a little house with his wife and 10 bairns.
The little house could not take the amount of people within, so it broke apart.
•	Caldecott Medal•	Grade level, interest level, Lexile-K-2 •	Appropriate classroom use (subject area) -Use this book to teach students about sharing what they have.•	Individual students who might benefit from reading -Students that have an issue with sharing with classmates will benefit from reading this book.
It will teach them that sharing is often rewarded with more kindness.
1. Book Summary in your own wordsA very generous family always has room for another person and invites every person who passes by, into their house. But do they really have room for every single person?2. Grade level, interest level, lexileGrades: K-23. Appropriate classroom use (subject area)Friendship, Kindness4. Individual students who might benefit from readingStudents who may not know how they can be kind to one another. Students who may need encouragement on how to be friendly towards othe
1.	Book Summary in your own wordsA very generous family always has room for another person and invites every person who passes by, into their house.
Appropriate classroom use (subject area)Friendship, Kindness4.
Small group use (literature circles)Students will practice offering a helping hand to each other in different scenarios.
6.	Whole class use (read aloud)As a whole class, we will do a project on kindness.
We will invite the other classes into our classroom for a “party” and see how many people we can fit in the room, to show them that we are friendly and will offer an open heart.7.
I liked the story...Lachie MachLachlan always has room for one more person in his home...until finally he does not have room for anyone else.
So he builds a larger home.
His generosity is impressive...and seems more typical of people in many other cultures than here in the US.
My husband is from Central America and thinks any visitor to our home (even salesmen) should be given food and drinks.
While I liked the illustrations, my children were not impressed.
My 6 year old said she didn't think this should have received an award.
After reading the book, Always Room for One More, I felt that the story was sort of hard to fallow.
The pictures were all drawn in a unique way; all of the illustrations were drawn with straight lines and crosshatch, while the ground was created with what looked like the sponging of different colors together.
All of the characters were drawn the same and each page looked top similar to the one before, so it was hard to create a personal connection to any of the drawings.
The storyline was cute and presented a good message, however I was not really impressed with the book.
I got this one because it was a Caldecott award winner, and the paintings for illustrations were beautiful.
Was it difficult to pronounce some of those Scottish words!
I felt all tongue tied!
And while my older son can follow along when I explain the definition of the words he doesn't know, I felt I was explaining every other word, which took away from the rhythm of the poetry.
I did like how the music to this song was in the back of the book as well as the definition of the typical Scottish words used.
But still, it was a difficult one.
I liked the lyrics to this old folk song; so carefree and joyful until the house falls down; and then everyone joining in to build an even bigger one. I picked out the tune on our piano, and it is simple and upbeat. I did not feel the need for a pronunciation guide, since most of the words are pronounced as they are spelled, except the "ch", which is the same guttural sound as the German "ch". However, I was not blown away by the pictures: black and white ink drawings with a sort of magenta wash over them.
Lordy, this book was hard to read out loud. It was hard even for ME to understand. It is derived from a Scottish traditional song, and uses some words that are difficult for Americans to understand: "a but and a ben" "bairns" "brae" There is a glossary at the back of the book. I felt my five year old son was too young for this book, perhaps an older child can appreciate it more.
1966 Caldecott winner The illustrations of the Heather...love it. maybe it's because I enjoy the Outlander series so much that I really enjoyed this book. & it's nice that a glossary is provided in the back.
This book absolutely BEGS to be read out loud. On paper it doesn't look like much, but the prose sings and tells the story admirably well. I enjoyed reading this one a lot. :)
A retelling of a Scottish song passed down from oral traditions. Amazing illustrations from Hogrogian incorporate a variety of artistic techniques to bring the verses to life.
Because the story is originally a folk song, the words are laid out very much like a poem or so that they need to be read with a rhythm, The illustrations are done so that they frame the words without the words being in the way, it is almost like the words are a part of the picture.2.
The ones that are closer up like on pages 11 and 12 are still done using this cross hatching technique that gives it a unique feel, but detail is added to the faces and the hair of the people, making them much more realistic than in the zoomed out pictures.Color- The use of color is very limited in these illustrations.
Always Room for One More is a fantastic children’s picture book that is able to entertain kids while informing them about a culture they may not have had any previous knowledge of.
The unique artwork displayed in the book, which appear to be ink drawings that primarily consist of human figures and a house drawn with simple straight lines and cross hatch designs, appears to be completed in the style of impressionism and contributes to the understanding of the story because it provides a visual representation of the words on each page.
Personally, I would use this book as a read-aloud lesson with children to introduce them to the Scottish culture and the form of poetry!
As more and more travelers pass by Lachie and his family continue to bring them in and reassures that there will be enough room for everyone who comes by his home.
Leaving everyone heartbroken they are determined to rebuild Lachie's house only bigger and so once they do they are now positive that they will always have room for more people to come by.
I thought this story was very cute, even though the dialogue was somewhat confusing I understood that the story takes place somewhere else.
Overall, I think that the story teaches a good lesson on how we should all be and also lets us know about other cultures with the stories dialogue.
Always Room for One More📚📖📚Kutemukan buku ini di @kineruku Bandung.Buku terbitan 1960an, buku antik ternyata, dari covernya aja terlihat usianya😊, entah kenapa judulnya menarik perhatianku...^Seperti kebiasaanku sebelum membaca buku apapun, selalu ku-scanning terlebih dahulu, biasanya kalo 'klik' dengan beberapa kalimat yg kubaca secara random maka akan kulanjutkan...^Ilustrasi sederhana banget, terkesan sekedar 'corat-coret' bagiku, tapi tetap detail & berhasil memperkuat isi cerita😍^Di suatu malam yg sedang badai, Lachie yg baiiik hatinya selalu menawarkan pada traveler yg singgah untuk berlindung di rumahnya.
& selalu penuh kehangatan❤Pada akhirnya kebaikan Lachie terbayar dg indahnya😍^Setelah membaca ini, jadi langsung refleksi, selama ini sudah menawari kebaikan apa pada orang2 yg dikenal bahkan tidak dikenal😢Jangan pernah merasa tidak punya apa-apa, karena ternyata sesungguhnya yang dibutuhkan untuk berbagi bukan materi yg banyak, tetapi hati yang luas❤
Sorche Nic Leodhas writes a Scottish tale of a man with a family of twelve, living in a small house.
As travelers pass, the man welcomes in every guest that needs a place to stay, pleading that there is always room for one more.
The small house began to fill quickly and the guests sang and danced amongst each other.
The man continued to invite in any distant travelers until one day the house became too full and trembled to the ground.
Both Sorche Nic Leodhas and Nonny Hogrogian collaborate to form a selfless tale centered on Scottish values.
This book is an adaptation from a popular Scottish song which has been around for countless generations and this book is the first time the words have been on paper!
As the pages go on, the family continues to invite anyone and everyone who come by their home until eventually the house is so full it breaks!
Personally, I did not like the illustrations, I thought they were odd and uninteresting and I found myself judging the book based off of the interesting illustrations, so this book was not my favorite by any means.
Basically, there's a man and his wife and 10 kids who live in a small house.
A huge mass of people come in, and he's totally cool with that, and they have a big party, and the house falls down because there are so many people in it.
We'll build a new house!" So they build up a bigger house for him, and that's how it ends.Which is really cool.
The guy's generous, and he gets rewarded for it, in kind of a realistic manner.
It's a little exaggerated, but basically he gives everything he has, and what he has gets broken, and then fixed by the thankful recipients.Message: Be generous.
A good picture book about a Scots family who are so generous that they have "Always Room for One More".
Lots of people take shelter in the wee little house, tinker, gallowglass, merry old wife and so on, and sing and dance until the rafters collapse.
I didn't test this book on my son, so he has no comments to make.
The rhyme uses a lot of Scottish words that I'm not sure how to pronounce, which is the main reason I left off reading it to my son.
In sum, it's a neat little book, but nothing earth shattering.
They end up inviting multiple people to stay in their little home.
It ends up being a party with music and dancing.
The music was too loud, and there were too many people in the house.
After everybody cried for a while Lachie MacLachlan, his wife, their ten children, and their guests started to build a new larger house, so more people can stay.
After the new house was built, everyone was praising their work and started having a party again.
Alos, students can learn to open their homes to everybody and to never give up even during the hard times.
"Always Room for One More" is a retelling of a Scottish folk song by author Sorche Nic Leodhas.
A Scottish man is always inviting everyone into his home.
Eventually, there are so many people in his house that the house burst apart and everyone tumbles out.
This is a silly story that will cause children to laugh.
The book defiantly a read a loud as some of the Scottish words have been maintained and would be difficult for newer readers.
The illustrations bring the story to life and illustrate what is taking place.
I enjoyed this book and think children would likewise enjoy this silly story.

I love the simple illustrations in this book. I love how the story is based on a Scottish song. I also love the actual song at the back of the book. This would make a great lesson for a music teacher as well as a book to include in a folk tale unit. I love the rhyme and repetition used in this story. This book would be great to talk about hospitality and generosity as well. I love how there is a glossary of Scottish words towards the back as well.
A worthy winner of the 1966 Caldecott Medal. The story is an old Scottish folktale about generosity. Some of the language is Americanized, but not much, and there's a helpful glossary at the back for the Scottish vernacular. Illustrations are beautiful--mostly black-and-white line drawings with purple and green to evoke the highlands. And you can find the music at the back, which obviously makes the poetry pop. Check it out!
A rhyming poem about an Irish family and their over-stuffed house.Ages: 4 - 8**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
