https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1514054.Colline
Hardscrabble people living near a hill.
So, is the whole world really falling to pieces?
The obligatory nyrb-classics Introduction assures us this was a prescient forewarning of global warming.
By the way, I am not a denier (of global warming) but I don't find hyperbole helpful to my open mind.
Uncertain which demagogue to vote for in the Fall, I missed that Many people are bereft and that a future once anticipated with excitement now looms as an inchoate shadow stirring only a vague dread.
Again, please, I'm not a denier; but, well, I'm not quite bereft.
"These hills, you shouldn't trust them.""Hill" is a terse, foul-tempered and mysterious little novel.
The bare-bones denizens of a mostly-abandoned French village wonder in horror as first the fountain dries up and then an apocalyptic fire rages.
An old man lies on his deathbed spouting Faulknerian horrors and a mysterious cat stalks the villagers bringing forth dreadful catastrophe.I can't go any further than that, because you really should read this and I don't want to tease you with too much of the little novel's innate terror, but I'd probably categorize this with the likes of such realist horror as "The Sheltering Sky" or Du Maurier's original short story "The Birds" where nature is (maybe) our undoing.
They are doubtful as to whether or not they can pry some useful information out of this delirious old man.What Janet gives them is a beautiful and timeless commentary on mother earth and a lesson on how we ought to treat and respect nature.
And humans have harmed earth so much that the kindly, supreme being can no longer heal her many wounds.The commentary on the spirituality of nature and our abuse and misuse of the limited resources that the earth gives us is a timely theme that we continue to discuss in the twenty-first century.
Jean Giono's Hill is the tale of several Provencal peasants living in an isolated hillside community facing the ravages of a nature gone mad.
Their patriarch, the half-paralyzed Janet frightens them with tales of their folly in the face of nature:Earth isn't made for you alone to keep on using the way you've been used to, on and on, without getting some advice from the master every once in a while.
You're like the tenant farmer -- and then there's the landlord.This is Giono's first novel, published in 1929.
J'me souvenais de longues descriptions de paysages campagnards et de la vie déprimante des derniers habitants d'un village paumé.
Et puis miracle, ce matin, je constate que les descriptions sont loin d'être interminables, elles sont fluides à lire, pleine d'onirisme et de poésie.
Les personnages sont assez rustres pour être crédibles sans se rendre détestables.
En fermant ce livre, me viendrait presque l'envie de partir avec un sac à dos pour explorer des villages abandonnés comme celui décrit dans le livre.
Faudra juste que je prévois des vêtements voyants pour pas que les chasseurs me confondent avec un sanglier.
Weird. Frightening. The countryside of rural Italy, in retaliation for the infinite sins done to nature by humankind, decides to destroy a small community of farmers. Giono has a talent for reframing the prosaic or lyrical aspects of nature in uncanny and horrifying prose, and the portrait of the farmers is savage and true-seeming. Did I find this an uncomfortable allegory for the horrors of climate change (though to be clear it was written a century ago)? Yes, I did. Keep.
It's a question sometimes brought up in book discussion groups: is a novel's setting or landscape a character?
I do remember a professor once stating that in a Hardy novel the Wessex sun is a character.
Turning to a dictionary of mythology I learned that the god of Greek herdsmen was believed to be the cause of sudden, unreasoning fear that overcomes people in lonely, desolate places.
Googling brought me round to the word "panic" originating in the name Pan. And finally the name drops in the novel, striking the hard, ancient earth of the hill with a thud.
It is the story of a small village and its inhabitants, told in the form of a fable.
In normal times, the people of the village lead a very ordinary existence.
The activities of the villagers are mostly related to agriculture, and the inhabitants believe in following the old ways; the ways of their ancestors.
People become sick.
When his messages finally sink in, the villagers take out their frustrations on him as if all their ills were his fault.
The ease with which they all sink back into uncivilized ways becomes the book’s lesson.
Colline...j'ai dû le lire en quatrième, ça m'avait foutu une claque. Plus tard j'ai eu une très bonne note en rédaction-- j'avais décrit un incendie, un pastiche éhonté. Encore plus tard je suis tombé amoureux d'une jeune fille prénommée Coline-- une vraie sauvagine. Va savoir.Je viens de le relire. Bizarre, le mysticisme écologique et inquiétant du vieux Janet. Mais Gondran au champ, qui sent soudain sourdre la révolte invisible de la colline... inoubliable. Il y a des choses pas traduisibles: à qui connaît les Alpes, le parler méditerranéen a des sons et des odeurs entre les voyelles...
"When someone sees farther than the rest of us, it's because there's something a little out of kilter in their brain. Sometimes it could be nothing at all, just by a hair, but from that moment it's all over. A horse, it's no longer a horse. A blade of grass, it's no longer a blade of grass. Everything we can't see, they see."
April 2016 NYRB selection.Giono's book is a rather interesting environmental fable that stays with you. The characters aren't so much characters as society. It's rather strange, moving, and powerful.
Un récit très étrange presque fantastique d'un village du sud de la France soudain frappé par des phénomènes anormaux. La colline semble alors prendre vie et se transformer. Ce roman très court et rapide à lire est assez captivant.
If Edward Abbey and H.P. Lovecraft had a lovechild this would be it.
While he digs, it occurs to him for the first time that there's a kind of blood rising inside bark, just like his own blood; that a fierce will to live makes the tree branches twist and propels these sprays of grasses into the sky...." (p.
28-29)"Earth isn't made for you alone to keep on using the way you've been used to, on and on, without getting some advice from the master every once in a while.
Taking better care of the environment in how we extract the resources we need, considering the impact on the Earth of our lifestyle and product choices...
I read this edition specifically because of the incredible introduction by David Abrams ( https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4...
). In the introduction, Abrams says that Giono realizes that:"Only by reconceiving life as a quality proper to the whole of this earthly cosmos do we free our bodily senses to engage, to participate, to resonate with every aspect of the sensuous surroundings."And that's Giono, in a nutshell.
Giono's work takes us on a journey of the senses into a world infused by the wild eroticism of Pan. This is the first of his "Pan" trilogy and it's not hard to see why.This book in particular, being his first, may not be as well-developed as his others, but the sincerity of his yearning to experience and communicate is already evident.Enjoy!
Je redoutais la lecture de ce court roman car je ne suis pas très fan de l'écriture lyrique et imagée de Jean Giono.
Pourtant, ce court roman a été une lecture intéressante.J'ai beaucoup aimé la façon dont l'auteur décrit les moeurs ruraux.
Les villageois cherchent des réponses à leur malheur et la superstition explique tout.
Comme le livre est assez court, j'ai pu me laisser le temps d'apprécier le lyrisme de l'auteur, qui avait été une vraie épreuve dans ma lecture du Chant du Monde.Jean Giono fait du quotidien villageois une aventure mythologique.Si vous aimez Marcel Pagnol ou le nature writing, vous devriez apprécier!
Despite not enjoying Hill I do recognize its undeniable merit.
Maybe I was distracted or not in the right head space for this short novel but I found it insufferably boring - I wanted to be done with it, which is never a state that makes for pleasant reading.There is, however, one particular scene early on which I feel will stay with me far into the future: a character stomps on a lizard, ending its life - and this simple, brutal act throws the character into deep a reflection that is surprising and challenging.
Beautiful and individual writing, great characters, and a really painterly rendering of the Provençal countryside. This is a compact book — maybe a little too compact. I don’t feel that the ultimate deceleration of the story gets the right amount of time to balance things properly, but for what I take to be off-kilter, Giono does a wonderful job with ambiguity. The events can be interpreted many ways and the balance between human, natural and supernatural drama is effectively understated.
3.5?While I absolutely loved the descriptions of the countryside and the general sense of the plot, in a way I found the story stilted in execution. Perhaps it reads better in French or perhaps I just need to give it another go at some point.
Simply written and entrenched in mythology of the villagers own making, this was extremely powerful, and the descriptions of the landscape were gothic and extremely emotive. I really enjoyed this book.
I learned about Giono a month ago. Have read three of his books. Apparently he wrote 50. I might have to read some of them in French.
Unbelievably modern, forward-thinking, and inspired. Better horror story than most dedicated horror tales--a must read for any fan of modernism and documenting the evolution of writing.
An astonishing work, impossible to predict, lean and beautiful.
Published in 1929, the poetic style of Hill (as translated by Paul Eprile in 2016) creates a story that feels both apocalyptically modern and primordially wise.Modernity’s relationship to the natural world is a core theme throughout Giono’s oeuvre.
What makes Hill so powerful is the character Janet.
Translated by Paul Eprile, Janet is a horrible gem… It’s as if the hill is channeling this man’s voice to express a million years of frustration with the blasé neglect of humans.
They know their lives depend on understanding what he is saying.The NYRB edition begins with an extensive (14-page) and erudite Introduction by David Abram as to how, where and why Hill fits with the world in 2016.
Visit Literary Lass for more reviews & giveaways  "Four houses, orchids flowering up to the eaves, emerge from a dense stand of grain. Up there among the hills, where earth’s flesh folds in thick rolls. Sainfoin in bloom bleeds red under the olive trees. Bees dance around birches sticky with sap.A fountain murmurs and overflows in two streams that plunge from a ledge and scatter in the wind. Gurgling under the grass, they reunite and course through a bed of rushes. The wind hums in the plane
Visit Literary Lass for more reviews & giveaways
"Four houses, orchids flowering up to the eaves, emerge from a dense stand of grain.
Up there among the hills, where earth’s flesh folds in thick rolls.
Sainfoin in bloom bleeds red under the olive trees.
Bees dance around birches sticky with sap.A fountain murmurs and overflows in two streams that plunge from a ledge and scatter in the wind.
Gurgling under the grass, they reunite and course through a bed of rushes.
The wind hums in the plane trees.
These are the Bastides Blanches, the White Houses."
Published in French in 1929 as Giono's first book after his return from World War One's battle of Verdun where he was one of the two survivors from his military unit).
This book by Giono was astounding in its portrayal of life in the region of Provence prior to the coming of automobiles.
We are immersed in the daily life and concerns of peasants, but most compelling is the wonder and terror that is the world of nonhuman nature.
Can also be read as an early ecological novel or as a diatribe against "Progress", but mainly conveys awe and terror in the face of the unknowns that constitute the nonhuman world of the living.
Un court roman qui se déroule dans un minuscule hameau paysan provençal, au début du XXe siècle.
Subitement, des événements étranges surviennent et vont plonger les habitants dans la peur : s'agit-il de la nature qui se rebelle contre ces hommes qui tentent de la domestiquer ?
Quelle écriture, quelle simplicité, mais quelle vérité dans les personnages et les situations !
À lire !
J'avais déjà adoré Regain, je ne tarderai pas à lire le dernier opus de la trilogie de Pan...
Cette édition, outre une préface qui parce qu'elle révèle tout devrait être une postface, contient à mon goût en proportion du texte original trop d'annexes.
Lyrical and odd and lovely and gruesome, which is all great, but something in the resolution felt ultimately flat. And I think what I'm criticizing is the actual book and not the translation (plot resolution, structure, etc) but I'm not sure. In tone reminded me in reverse of an odd little novella called Disquiet by Julia Leigh, and not because it's set in rural France. Glad I read it, made an impression for sure, just not sure it hit the spot the introduction seemed to promise. Also/anyway, one of my favorite NYRBC packages/color schemes. Continued hats off to the designer(s).

A strange little fable about the effects of environmental encroachment by humans and the ways in which nature can fight back. Giono wrote this nearly a century ago and his view of humanity was grimly prescient. This novella is deceptively simple; even though it's only a scosch over 100 pages, there's a lot going on here.
