https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82104.How_I_Found_Freedom_in_an_Unfree_World
Browne defines a number of these traps that he thinks keep people on treadmills and prevent them from living a more truthful life.Overall it's a great message and I thought that the chapters "freedom from insecurity" and "freedom from pretense" were particularly good.
I don't think, for example, that putting one's children up for adoption is something that anybody should do just because those children are preventing the parents form living a more authentic life.There are other problems, too.
It was about 10 years ago that I read the book and I remember at the time that I liked it very much; I probably would have given it five stars then.
I'm sure he had his reasons for what he did, and that they seemed honorable to him at the time, but I feel reasonably comfortable saying that being under the pressure of being a presidential candidate probably clouded his better judgement at the time.I soon lost interest in the Libertarian Party, and a year or so after that, I lost interest in Liberty Magazine.
But, like the author of "The Road Less Traveled," a somewhat similar book that I recently read, Browne doesn't make reference to Stoicism or really any external touchpoints.
It's forgivable given the book's colloquial style, but I think Browne also likes to portray himself as someone who just worked a bunch of stuff out himself.
He sets unrealistically high bars for government success; at one point, he essentially says that police are worthless because they can't stop every crime from happening.
It's definitely to his credit that he does own up to changing his mind on these things.
Although it's from 40 years ago (and sometimes it shows), it's mostly still relevant, insightful and provocative today.After all, it's about human beings and life, and those never go out of fashion.
;-)Despite me already being a fierce lover and supporter of freedom, this book still taught me (and made me think) a lot.
Despite his intelligence, the author is so prejudiced and emotional about government, he simply cannot admit that governments have pros AND cons (like anything else).Hence, I advise you to read the chapters about government with a good pinch of salt.My rating: 4,5 stars.5 stars for being insightful, inspiring, provocative, and down to earth.Minus half star for the anti-government bias (but it's so obvious it cannot fool the average reader).
This dude is a trip. I did learn a few valuable lessons though. I'm also going to accept the fact that I'm lazy lol
My only regret is that I discovered Browne (and libertarianism generally) too late to cast a vote for his presidential bids.How I Found Freedom...
Knowing that Browne was happily married for quite a long time before he died, and given his two-time presidential candidacy with the Libertarian Party, I suffered a little cognitive dissonance reading those chapters.
That, along with perhaps a slightly less "self-help" feel in the last few chapters would've let me give this book 5 stars.Still, it's well worth the read, for both libertarians and those who are simply curious to know more about the practical side of freedom (vs.
If freedom is living your life the way you want it, how free are you?Nothing is more important, simply by this definition.A lot of psychology. Understanding what stops you from being free and some useful strategies.The wisest presentation of libertarian ideas I ever read. No politics at all, no manifests, no macro bullshit.A life-changing book.
Freedom isn't free.
Which is a two pronged belief that - You should try to be somebody other than yourself- Other people will do things in the same way you would The author expands on this and says that “common sense” to you may not be that to others.
“Your life is great.”Regularly getting in touch with what makes you happy and 100% living in that feeling so it washes over you is being free.Another trap is the belief that you should care about homeless people or animals (or anything you don't care about) and feel guilty when you don’t.
Don’t try to be all things to all people.
This is a 25th anniversary edition in 1998, little revised from the original 1973 book.
Not much of it seemed to apply to me, and it's often out-of-date information.
I was surprised by the author's advocating of tax evasion.
We know that you don't have to live your life based on others' opinions.
I liked some of them, such as this one from Rudyard Kipling: "He travels fastest who travels alone." And I liked some of the concepts, such as accepting the presence of uncertainty and having sovereignty over myself.
That's what makes this book such a good read.Basically, mr.
That makes the book pretty progressive on some matters.
It suggests cohabitation instead of marriage, and endorses open relationships.
It's not that his basic principles, such as seeing if there really are options one hasn't thought of yet, and respecting others as well as oneself as individuals instead of members of a group, couldn't be applied in any life situation – it's that his tone towards people in financial hardship is so condescending.

..This book teaches you how to start living your life in your own way , making your own choices , your own thoughts and How to accept Your own self. How to respect your own view of the world and making sure that it really your view not something you have been told.It was boring little bit but I enjoyed reading it ...“ You Need Time alone to act completely on your own desires “..“ To Be nobody but yourself in a world which is doing its best nights and day to make you somebody else means to fight

this book offers an abundance of very practical information about improving freedom in one's personal life across many domains, and I am disappointed that it had not been recommended to me prior to adulthood.
Harry discusses many types of traps and ways in which we become entangled and encumbered by social imposition, circumstance, poor decisions, and getting up in other people's business, and offers strategies in addressing these all-too-common, largely avoidable challenges.
this idea was apparently drawn from his personal life decisions.
the book says nothing whatsoever about his personal decision to have a kid he then didn't want to live with or care for, or his personal responsibility in these relationships.
Why do we continue to do a mediocre, "safe" job that pays well when we could seek out that ideal job for ONLY US that would make us so very happy that we would make more just by making others happier that we did them this service?How much of our lives is dedicated to making others happy at our expense, and could we get this time back?
I don't need it - don't feel like figuring out how to pull a "sly one" on the government - I like living honestly.This is a great book for asking yourselves the tough questions that you may have never considered before - everything from your interactions with your family & friends to your thoughts on work and marriage.Think about it.
(I believe behavioral economics has fairly well scotched that one; see the book Nudge, and the entire industry of marketing.)A second example: He asserts that emotions are completely beyond one's control---just natural reactions of our innermost self to our circumstances.
But his placing of individual sovereignty and personal happiness at the very top of the values of life may be what's responsible for a lot of the crazy ideas here.He's careful to point out that he's not advocating you live his lifestyle.
I'd second that.(However, the book certainly is philosophically meaty; my reaction's length is, I think, indicative of this.)
Most Americans are well aware you don't have to get married to have a romantic partner, you don't have to follow the religion you were raised with, etc.One of the few notions raised in the book that isn't in vogue today was the notion that it's okay to abandon your kids if you don't want a life with children.
With most of the ideas, other people in your life would be free to move on if they don't like your [self-first] attitude.
I'd prefer the attitude "you're totally free not to have kids unless you're really really sure you want them".Also, the not-so-subtle libertarian anti-government tone was also a little hard to stomach.
One of my top5 books I read so far.
After all, stop trying to change the system.
Stop trying to change people.
Rather improve the relationships with people you just have common values.
To find those quality relationships you firstly have to know yourself, that you can express yourself.
There are plenty more golden nuggets in this book.
Living honestly with others and yourself.
Seeing live for it's beauty, and the freedom it has to offer...There will be probably some parts you won't agree with, but hey, this helps you to find what you value even easier ;)
When I read the first edition of this book, it was new, refreshing, and its Libertarian outlook did nothing more than change my life. When Harry Browne ran for the U.S. Presidency in 1996 he was the first candidate of any stripe who made perfect sense to me. He was certainly the first with whom I agreed on every point. It takes an open and unbiased mind to consider his point of view, and so many of his readers and critics, resorting to name-calling and labeling, seem not to possess that essential requirement.
I like how the author says upfront that he doesn't expect or even intend for people to wholeheartedly accept every idea he lays out to incorporate into their lives.
If hardworking and lazy employees are paid the same, and raises/rewards are mostly based on seniority rather than merit, what is the point in making an effort?The early parts of the book resonated most with me, because they showed me how instinctively I try to conform to societal pressures without even thinking about it.
The how to work around these traps .( rather than being a people pleaser --conforming to societies traditions--march to the beat of your own drummer) Change your self before you change the world --rather than social activism work on personal change---its easy to run out and demand social change (try to change the system is a big trap --its harder to seek personal freedom within but its the only freedom Aslo about how to do that is personal relationships .( he says they are voluntary -not compulsory- Me is a minimalist ( theirs a lot of advise to entrepreneurs) Some of it was unprincipled (free living hippy thinking --it was written in 1973) I disagree that we should not do our duty to our government and our family obligations or not being vulnerable to your love dones so I only gave it 3 stars .
Harry Browne provides a Libertarian's road map to personal freedom in his book.
It is my favourite section of the book because it provides road map to freedom via negativa (Addition by Subtraction).
Its basically provides the writer's view on how to obtain Freedom from Government, Society,Bad relationship, Insecurity, Exploitation, Business Problem's and Treadmill.Part III is about How to apply these changes.
Although redundant at many places, it helps the readers to practically apply changes to obtain liberty.Whether you're a Libertarian or otherwise, this book will provide some insights to everyone and how to find Freedom.
This is an old book even with the updated E-Book version. I recommend starting with the third section which includes Browne's advice for living a freer life. Then either go back to the first and sections as reference material. Don't follow the tax or business regulation advice. Both are dangerously dated in our hyper data driven world and the advice will only get you in trouble.The book is best read in high school or college at the latest. Older readers will be reliving regrets as they progress through the book.
Thought Provoking You will have to read this with an open mind. I don’t agree with everything Browne writes, and he anticipated this in the book. He changed his mind in a few important areas, notably marriage and also trying to improve or at least educate Americans about the philosophy of freedom. It’s somewhat repetitive in many places, but the core idea of pursuing happiness and living in reality is timeless.
I can't believe that I have had my hard copy for ten years!This book is timeless. You can apply the information therein as much now as you could when it was written. A book for those who do not need to become a Perpetual Traveller but who just simply and legally want to arrange their affairs in the best way possible.I applaud Mr Browne and as I understand that he is no longer with us, may he RIP knowing that he has done a brilliant job.
For some reason, this book reminded me of John Lennon's song "Imagine." This is especially so when Browne rejects government and religion. Browne went where very few people won't go or are afraid to go (I won't say how because I don't want to ruin the book for people.). This is a must-read, if only for a fresh perspective!
There are some interesting ideas in here, wedged in between self-serving anecdotes about how exceptional and prescient the author finds himself to be.Even though I didn't agree with some of the author's beliefs, I still enjoyed parts of the book. I just wish it was better written.
Only flaw this book has is a lack of understanding of the perils of the male in current gynocentric society, especially where it pertains to romantic/sexual relationships of any kind with modern western women. However this book was written many years ago therefore I chose to give it five stars
This could be a reminder for life but not much new ideas. Too lengthy given the amount of insight in it. Two pages is good enough. Why does amazon force us to write a certain number of words so to be able to post? Weird.
I have to credit this book for turning over some of my deepest assumptions. As well as putting to words some sentiments I've been crafting over the past 5 years. Really a game changer.
