https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/636402.Nine_Fairy_Tales_and_One_More_Thrown_in_for_Good_Measure
Nemám veľmi rád rozprávky, ale v tomto prípade ľutujem, že som túto nápaditú a nesmierne vtipnú zbierku bratov Čapkovcov nečítal už ako malý. Podobne láskavé, ľudské, jazykovo jatrné a trochu ľavicové rozprávky som jakživ nečítal. Obľúbená rozprávka: Poštácka pohádka.
Diez cuentos en la línea de Hans Christian Andersen donde lo infantil o juvenil quedan casi unidos en una misma esfera. Son cuentos netamente infantiles cuando se dirige textual a los niños pero a su vez las historias son complejas con elementos trágicos. En varios cuentos se narran otras historias que se superponen como capas de cebolla. Destacan los personajes humildes de nobles valores, los poderosos que son déspotas y prejuiciosos . Algunos cuentos son reminiscencias de los clásicos y otros
Son cuentos netamente infantiles cuando se dirige textual a los niños pero a su vez las historias son complejas con elementos trágicos.
En varios cuentos se narran otras historias que se superponen como capas de cebolla.
Destacan los personajes humildes de nobles valores, los poderosos que son déspotas y prejuiciosos .
Algunos cuentos son reminiscencias de los clásicos y otros muy originales, como la historia de los carteros, el cómo aprendieron a volar los pájaros.
Hay eventuales dibujos del autor que aportan un elemento de atracción para lectores menores, son dibujos que apenas cumplen la premisa pero no desentonan en el todo.
Přiznám se, že v dětství jsem tuhle knížku nějak minul. Snad kvůli notoricky známým TV zpracováním některých částí.Ale rozhodně stojí za přečtení v libovolném věku. Nejenom kvůli Čapkově geniální práci s jazykem. Mě se moc líbí, jak hladce spojuje náš svět s pohádkovým světem a ono to bezvadně funguje.
Siin on üks muinasjutte, mis mulle kõige sagedamini meelde tuleb.
Quirky tales to be sure, but light-hearted and moralistic, all while explaining the wonders of the world.
Odd collection of fairy tales, not ones I would recommend reading out-loud to a younger child in most cases.
The Great Cat's Tale: This was a fun tale, long in length with many characters to sort out along the way.
'Since man is made of the bones of every animal except the dog, he shares with the animals all their qualities: the strength of a lion, the perseverance of a camel, the craftiness of cat, and the magnanimity of a horse, but he doesn't have the loyalty of a dog.
The Mailman's Tale: A fairy tale about a mailman?
And the long lost letter.The Great Doctor's Tale: Another tale filled with many characters.
I thoroughly enjoyed Capek's fairy tales.
They feel way more modern than they are, mostly because of Capek's writing style.
His meandering plots take us through fun incongruities and witticisms.
As the back cover says, "Fact and imagination, satire and fantasy are blended so skillfully that the line between logic and plausible nonsense is nearly indiscernible." An example: in "The Great Police Tale," Capek has cops discussing various magical creatures, which are immediately normalized: "As I stepped down Jecna Street, something yanked at my trouser.
I looked down and saw an elf.
Rozhodla jsem se, že napíšu souhrnný názor na všech sedm pohádek.
První pohádka v pořadí byla první loupežnická.
Druhá pohádka byla vodnická.
Měla jsem problém s vyslovením jmen vodníka a princezny.
Hezká byla část o vodníkovi, který naučil vodu zpívat.
Třetí pohádka byla druhá loupežnická, která se mi vůbec nelíbila.
Je to takový zvláštní termín.
Další pohádka byla policejní.
Mám ráda draky, proto jsem si ji ráda přečetla až na toho draka, který byl takový ďas a chtěl si nechat princeznu.
Potom jsem četla pošťáckou pohádku.
Musím opravdu říct, že je hezká, ale nejvíce se mi líbila část o princezně Zubejdě.
Elves, goblins and ghosts, as in all good fairy tales are real and the reader doesn't need to be convinced, they simply know that it makes perfect sense for creatures of fantasy to work in a post office after hours and be able to play cards with the envelopes.Each story is beautifully written and is full of charm and combines modern with the past in such a way that the stories almost have a time of their own.
My only warning to readers would be not to misjudge this book as being a collection of unrelated stories that you can set aside at the end of an adventure, because like with chips, it's impossible to have just one.
Nine Fairy Tales and One More Thrown in for Good Measure  is utterly fantastic.
They're written in the guise of traditional fairy tales (with princesses, bandits, and fairy folk), but with more 20th-century touches added (like letter carriers, toll collectors, and American movie stars).
The tales start in one vein and end up elsewhere, seemingly stream of consciousness and yet completely reasonable in their trajectory.
(It's so well translated that I honestly don't know how the translator managed it without the writing feeling stilted or like it's "missing something.") No doubt I will be revisiting these tales over and over again.
I bought this book the second it came out in 1990 and promptly carried it on board an overnight train from Vienna to Frankfurt.
There were four bunks in the cabin, and the other three were occupied by improbably attractive twenty-year-old women.
I naturally concluded that I had botched my reservation and booked myself into a "women's car," and I spent the entire night in a cold sweat, expecting at any moment to be arrested as a pervert.
As a consequence, I didn't actually crack the book until almost eighteen years later, only to discover that Karel Capek was the goyishe Daniel Pinkwater.
Capek's brother Josef even DRAWS like Pinkwater.
It was written in period, which is called "war for fairy tale", when some people thought that fairy tale is not good for children. Brothers Josef and Karel Č. were in group, which think that fairy tale can show and teach, how the world and people should be - so fairy tale is very important. So its not typical czech fairy tale, but very funny. Karel played with czech language, with stories etc. And you can also know the region where they were born and grew up - East Bohemia - Malé Svatoňovice, Úp
It was written in period, which is called "war for fairy tale", when some people thought that fairy tale is not good for children. Brothers Josef and Karel Č. were in group, which think that fairy tale can show and teach, how the world and people should be - so fairy tale is very important. So it´s not typical czech fairy tale, but very funny. Karel played with czech language, with stories etc. And you can also know the region where they were born and grew up - East Bohemia - Malé Svatoňovice, Úpice, Jestřebí, Žaltman... :-)
Y como el hombre está hecho de los huesos de todos los animales, menos los del perro, tiene también las propiedades de todos los animales: la fuerza el león, la laboriosidad del camello, la astucia del gato y la generosidad del caballo. Sólo carece de la lealtad del perro, ¡sólo de la lealtad del perro!En el barco viajaba conmigo cierta señorita, bueno, más que bonita, en breves palabras, se llama Alicia. ¡En cualquier sitio se está mejor, en cualquier sitio se está mejor! -Golondrina.
I found this to be a delightful set of fantastical yarns, divided into the kind of short portions that make this perfect for bedtime stories. A bit predictable, they are indeed stories for children, but they're also a lot of fun. They give an interesting look at Czech perspective on the world, especially Europe. If I ever have children, I'll be sure to read this to them.
Farcical, but if you enjoy that or get past it, it is quite lovely. I was especially fond of the second robbers tale, where his hat blows away and he chases it all over Europe and the hat starts imitating people and goes on a cross country crime spree. It makes no sense, but it works.
Mr. Capek was a great writer from Cz. His book is a treasue!
I liked one or two of the latter stories.
Been on my list of "to read" since I took a Children's Lit. course in 2006:) Very fun, imaginative, quirky little collection of stories. A refreshing change of pace from our traditional fairy tales.
funny, quirky, modern-ish fairy tales originally written in czech--unique, strong humorous author's voice
