https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7606133-how-to-analyze-people-on-sight
Randomly picked up this book because it was one of the most popular Kindle e-books.
I have such mixed feelings about it.
I thought a lot of it was either obvious, pointless or even offensive but there was one insight which made the whole book worth reading.
When choosing a partner the most important thing is that the two of you agree how to spend your leisure time.
But fundamentally if two people can't have fun together then they'll never be happy together.
I suppose I learned this lesson the hard way, I'm just glad I learned it relatively early in life!
The book is interesting and the author's five types of human beings in the world is worth to think over.I've read some reviews about this book and some people think that the book is kind of racist and the author's "five types" forever and a day remained unproved theories.
Well, I think otherwise.Ms. Benedict's "Five Human Types" are, in my opinion, true.
I believe that these five human types which are the alimentives (fat men), the thoracics (thrillers), the musculars (workers),the osseus (stayers) and the cerebrals (thinkers) are the most basic human types ever and maybe other readers have hard time "analyzing" people according to the author's guielines but you see, you have to know how to mix and match.
The only real purpose I can see for this book is historical, as a look into the thoughts and attitudes of people in the 1920's. Did people really believe this was real science when this came out? I've seen recent reviews from people on Amazon who gave this book a high rating and thought the methods described would be helpful for analyzing people. Kind of scary. The theories, to me, seem to be complete nonsense, made up of outdated (by a century) stereotypes.
Utter garbage. I can't really mark this as 'read' because in no way did I finish it. It's terrible fluff, padded with needless "examples" of the (supposed) true types of people. Don't bother.
This book is really hard to review.
I mean, on the one hand, it is wrong.
Just wrong.
But on the other hand it is delightful.
It claims that 99% of people are failures, which is incredibly reassuring.
Plus people are cars and sometimes sage brushes, which is a fabulous use of metaphor and now I can just picture my personality driving me around, a rusted out old two door Honda that can't get above third.
It also claims to have surveyed ice cream vendors and fruit sellers about fat people, which just seems fabulously politically correct and a valid empirical study.
The best book no one has ever heard of! Can you really determine a person's whole character by the shape of his or her hands, or face? Elsie says you can and I believe her, because the measurements she gives for deciding each person have been so scarily accurate, I almost don't believe it. I found this book on gutenberg.org and downloaded it to Plucker, there is also a text version with drawings. A really interesting find!
Quite funny actually.
Especially the bit about 'fat people' - how they make a 'beeline' for the widest chair and how the 'fat man' is predominantly seen in the Jewish faith (!!!).
One gripe though: Ms. Elsie Benedict seemed to have overlooked MY type.
That aside, I think it's quite extraordinary that people flocked to universities to hear this lady talk about how your body shape determines your personality.
It's also a bit of an eye-opener, as we can clearly see that the entrepreneurial pseudo-socio scientist model was prevalent even back then.I wonder what 'type' Ms. Benedict was...
When I listen to uneducated people talk about societal problems, the tone is similar to that of this book. Want to get ideas for characters based on stereotypes, this book is for you. Want the truth about humans and human nature, watch out. The judgments and analyses are so naive you can do danger to yourself and others if you follow the ideas presented in this silly book. I gave it 2 stars instead of 1 because the literary value is good for basing characters off for writers.
I like ideas that tackle one of the most important things in life, out how to deal with others.
Stereotypes based on physical characteristics are probably as accurate as astrology or birth order, so take with a pound of salt, but there is some truth to this book.
Look at characters in books and film and one will see that physical characteristics are as much a part of the character as their costumes are.
Stereotypes exist for reasons, the chief one being that most people we encounter in life we must make judgements on quickly and with as little information as a single glance.
It's funny but if you look at it closely but People who complain about this book are the ones who cannot accept and do not like the type they are after they have learned which one they are.
If you look at their comments carefully they don't state to why exactly it is a bad book and just goes off saying its racist or inaccurate without really having a strong standpoint.
Also I would suggest comment readers to use what they have read into use and observer the people who are complaining and what type they are.
Surely, a cerebral or two will have a good smirk out of what I just said.
This book has some sort of logic but the time period puts the accuracy of this book in question.
Race is mentioned as a way of reading people.
The problem with the book using race, was that it uses as race if it were biological.
When in fact race is socially constructed, without there being any evidence for a genetic or biological connection besides skin color.
She is correct saying that a person body does to adapt to what it thinks it needs, but there is a different from a way a body looks by nature or the way it looks by nurture.
Therefore this book is slightly inaccurate.
Entertaining Book from a time when speaking and writing plainly was a virtue. Surprisingly true on many levels, however there's always exceptions to the rules. To all those who doubt it's efficacy, I ask why would physical composition not govern our relationships and behaviors? I'm sure if Elsie and Ralph were around today they'd write an even more compelling version with the benefits of modern science at thier disposal.
I read this book as a curiosity, not because I think it's possible to tell everything about a person simply by knowing their body/frame shape.
(Again, not because I actually believe the psuedo-psychology.) The authors present an interesting picture of divorce in the early 20th century in the penultimate chapter by mentioning the prevalence of what we would now file under "no fault divorce": that people were divorcing "not on grounds dealing with the so-called fundamentals, but for differences regarding the so-called unimportant things." Those "unimportant things" being how they spend their leisure time and how they act when on their own.
This is the most idiotic pile of garbage I have EVER, EVER, EVER...EVER READ.Example of one of five types of human beings that have been "discovered" by science: The Fat Man"How the Fat Man Talks" Never to take anything too seriously is an unconscious policy of fat people.
We have interviewed countless popcorn and fruit vendors on this subject and every one of them told us that fat people keep them in business.Are. You.
Like the infant, he demands food first.
Almost the only time a fat man loses his temper is when he has been deprived of his food.
there is a saying in the Arab that says " a book can be read from its cover" which means u can judge something based on the way it looks. Basically this is what this book all about, judging people based on the way they look,Personally I don't believe in this and the book couldn't convince me otherwise .
Astoundingly difficult to read due to the book's format and the author's choice to deliver unrelated or repetitive "micro chunks" of information. This book is also highly unscientific, racist, and, among other things, unusually shallow. Should only be read as an object of studying quack science or for fun, not as a serious endeavour.
a step to understand people around in a better way..
3/5 stars.Really, I tried going into this book with an open mind.
I'd like to believe that I did so for the most part.
I did not feel like I've learned much, if I'm quite honest.
However, it wasn't that horrible and I even enjoyed it at the last part.Do I recommend this book?The answer is no.
It felt like a waste of time, but it was so easy to read.
Do I consider the information in this book is important?Not really.I'd like to believe, though, that this at least added some valid information here and there.
The theories and concepts in this book are interesting and have some merit but thats about where it ends.
For those getting wound up and upset over the book being offensive, get a grip.
I found myself thinking when I read the book that quite literally I fit not any of the 5 types but rather there are components of all types in me.
With that said I can identify which type I can be least closely linked with, 'the fat man' although even some of those traits I can relate to ie liking comfort sometimes, etc but the other 4 I'm almost equal proportions of.
That's why the theories in this book fall over.
5 types?
Though this book claims that the rules can be applied anywhere in the world but I am not agreed with this.But it somewhat gives basic facts and conceptions about human behavior and habits of each types.It is written after a long study of American people and Local Climate determines the Nature of an individual is an impregnable fact, and the climate does highly vary all over the world.So if you want to analyse people around you then better to study the local culture and social milieu. Then you get it Man.
Have you ever read a book that was full of hot air and gave very little information or advice? That's what this book seemed like to me. Overall, this seemed to be nothing more than a lot of short choppy musings that didn't seem to go any where. Reading this was a waste of time.
Fairly an old book in relative terms. Very good insight and thought provoking parts. They psychology of fat and thin people, hailing from how they have come to be so, is brilliant! An interesting read overall!
It's interesting material, but scientifically ridiculous. Even if she had sources to back up what she says, there's absolutely no way I'd believe them after reading this book. Most of it is just logical assumptions.
This book was written in 1921. As a result, it is quirky and outdated. Still, it is interesting to read about different body types having different qualities to their personalities, especially when you realize you have come to yourself. I quit reading a little more than halfway through.
I found this book to be very interesting. Pure personality types rarely exist, but you can start by knowing the pure personality types and build it up from there.Still trying to figure out where i lie.....it clear where.....but i need to do it all over again to be sure.Fantastic read!
Very politically incorrect as it was written in the 20s but still very interesting!
Its a fun book to readYou can actually see a lot of truth in it
if you are interested in human analysing and every thing related to the 5 human types, i would highly recommend this book for you
Never thought of myself as a "fatty" but apparently...
The pretentiousness of some people made me raise an eyebrow and want to see what was worth being haughty about.
While now we realise we can't judge a person on their body, many of the ways that they describe the personality traits are still very similar to what I've read in other influence books.
So, all in all, it's a good book for a historical study.
If you're using it as a way to read people, body language, and other sorts of things, you'll be led astray in parts.
you'll probably raise an eyebrow from time to time and gasp at how they describe people.
