https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3661015-the-quarry-wood
Nan Shepherd is best known for The Living Mountain, her uniquely personal book about The Cairngorms which is rightly regarded as a classic piece of nature writing.
This 1928 novel was her first published work.At its core is a rites of passage novel, told largely in Aberdeenshire dialect - this does make it quite difficult for a non-Scot to follow at times though many of the dialect words are explained in a glossary, in fact just reading the glossary shows how rich the dialect is.The heroine Martha has to fight the limited expectations of her family and the close knit community in which there are very few secrets.
I suspect a degree of veiled autobiography as the book is very strong on her hidden thoughts and motivations.
A complex novel this - both in its sociopolitical themes and in its humanity (which may explain some of the more negative reviews). The prose is wonderful, as is her ear for dialogue, and she offers no easy or trite ways out for her heroine. Most impressively done is her rejection of the traditional narrative arc of such a story, and her strongly feminist evocation of poverty and motherhood. Imagine a Scottish female Hardy with a willingness to make clear the flaws of men and the patriarchal norms, and you get close. Highly recommended.
The novel is on a small scale, focused on a farming community & centring on Martha who we meet at the age of nine, and whose initial appearance in the first sentence is to give her great aunt something of kicking.
This is all brought out through small-scale & sketchy little incidents, rather than through any prolonged reflection on the character.Aunt Josephine is an absolute delight who brings a freshness & individuality in her views of the values & ways of the community she lives in.
From a young age Martha Ironside loved books, so much so she kicked her great-aunt Josephine for taking her from them.
At university Martha is attracted to and a little intimidated by people who cleave to the life of the mind, the seemingly confident Lucy Warrender, and Luke, who is married to Martha’s friend Dussie.
Martha’s post university life as a teacher in a school twelve miles from her home is complicated by the growing infirmity of Aunt Josephine who is reluctant to take a woman in to look after her.
Martha Ironside lives in a small farming community but manages to carve a different path as a university trained teacher, although one who is travelling 8 miles each way to school while looking after two invalids in the evenings and weekends at one point.
I found it a fascinating story of a girl growing up to be a woman and how life is strange.
I only found the glossary of dialect words at the back once I'd read the book, so I had to muddle through the words, but that wasn't too much of a barrier really.
The close observation of life made this for me.

Much of the dialogue is in the Doric, the dialect of Scots spoken in the countryside there, and its sounds and words got back inside my head, until I started thinking and speaking to myself in that idiom.
The distinctiveness of the Doric is brought into sharp contrast by Shepherd's at times ironic use of dignified English language to comment on the psychological states of the protagonists.
So, too, was the conspiracy of silence about sexuality and relationships: the main character Martha had "given love and had received only adoration", and it takes time for her to reach a state where she "had no more fear of what love might do to her".
After reading her biography I thought this might be a little more edgy. The writing is set in it's time so the scandals have less impact in today's world. Beautiful writing and use of the vernacular as always from Nan.
A beautiful book full of the love of life and of nature. Loved the Scottish vocabulary - roarie-bummlers (storm clouds), heelster-gowdie (upside down) and many more. Looking forward to reading The Living Mountain.
This book is marvellous. Not a quick read because of the dialect but mote beautiful for that. It is one of those books where nothing happens and everything happens. A story of knowing you are nothing like your parents because you read books and finding out you are just like them actually
3.5
I could not make out what the story was since it was written more in Gaelic than anything else.
There is a strong sense of the relations between people and nature here, and in Martha's eventual acceptance of the family life against which she once fought so ardently, there is the temptation to think this a resignation, a giving in to 'a woman's place' in life.
But I think there is more to the manner of her acceptance to conclude as such, and when combined with the dry humour permeating the time throughout, and the story of an eternal nature, upon which we have but a fleeting presence, there is clearly much more besides.
A disappointing read (2015 is getting off to a very bad start for me).
This book has been compared to Sunset Song, an absolutely perfect and shining classic, but the similarities of location and female protagonist are only superficial.
In Sunset Song, Chris Guthrie is a strong, solid and self aware character.
Martha Ironside in this, is barely even a two-dimensional character.
The 'passion' that Martha supposedly discovers within herself reads an awful lot more like a mental illness.
The author seems to have put a great deal more of her talent into describing the weather than drawing characters.
A touching and subtle book which I could relate to and with descriptions of nature which were beautiful.
whats the point of writing the dialogue in some old scottish dialect if you actually want the readerto know what the characters are talking about??
