https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/292654.Elidor
in which it is a line of nonsense from a man pretending madness.However King was not the first fantasy writer to draw inspiration from the line and write a book whose hero, Roland, engaged in an epic struggle.
The real interest is in their passage to Elidor, and on their return their struggle to keep the treasures they been given safe and to play their role in restoring life to the doomed world that seems to intersect ours at the fringes of society.I enjoyed the story, it's full of imagination and no small amount of dark threat.
Elidor is, as it sounds, a magical fantasy world; a world of beauty and goodness, a golden Utopia, as described by one of its inhabitatants, Malebron, but a world which is under threat from evil forces.At the start of the novel, the family is in Manchester, in the process of moving house.
It is up to the four children to guard four treasures from the dark forces, but since their true nature is not apparent in their home world, their experience in Elidor becomes more like a dream, a dream which just occasionally bursts through into their comfortable yet ordinary life.The two worlds merge at unexpected times.
When I was nine (back in the dim, distant past that we’ll refer to as 1968) I had a teacher called Mrs McEke. She was a strict disciplinarian but she probably needed to be given that her class was full of little oiks from the local council estate (like me!).
As ever with Garner it is the power of myth which is his main fascination.As an adult I do have a few gripes with the novel which weren’t as apparent to me when I first read it.
However, I've commented on this before in one of my other reviews...writing has evolved tremendously in the last 50 years, much to the detriment of this novel.Description...there is practically none (in that aspect, it is in sync with Narnia which is almost non-descriptive as well).
It's only as events unfold around them that they play any role.If one wants to see how the early days of fantasy began, I suppose this book may be worth looking into.
But storytelling has simply come so much farther since this book was written, there's no way any publisher would have approved this for print in this century.
One by one they realise that the church isn't all it seems, as the fabric of time and space opens and they are propelled into the dying and strange world of Elidor...Episode 2 of 4With his siblings disappeared into the Mound, King Malebron says only Roland can save them.Episode 3 of 4Roland's strong imagination threatens to draw the Evil towards the Treasures.Episode 4 of 4Time has run out for the Watsons and Malebron - can Helen help to save Elidor?Alan Garner's classic fantasy adventure dramatised in four-parts by Don Webb.Stars Mossie Cassidy as Roland, Raffey Cassidy as Helen, William Rush as Nicholas, Stephen Hoyle as David, Toby Hadoke as Malebron and Fiona Clarke as Mrs Watson.Original music composed by Ian WilliamsDirected at BBC Manchester by Charlotte Riches.Made for BBC Radio 4 Extra and first broadcast in April 2011.https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b010...
یه جورایی ناتمام موند.انتظار این بود که داستان در جهان اسرارآمیز پیش بره، ولی سعی کرد که شخصیتهای دنیای الیدور رو به لندن بیاره. این ایده خیلی میتونست خوب و جالب باشه اگه درست اجرا میشد، ولی خیلی ضعیف، خیلی ضعیف...در حد اینکه مرددم در اینکه کتاب رو نگهدارم یا بدمش بره...
یه جورایی ناتمام موند.انتظار این بود که داستان در جهان اسرارآمیز پیش بره، ولی سعی کرد که شخصیت‌های دنیای الیدور رو به لندن بیاره. این ایده خیلی میتونست خوب و جالب باشه اگه درست اجرا میشد، ولی خیلی ضعیف، خیلی ضعیف...در حد اینکه مرددم در اینکه کتاب رو نگه‌دارم یا بدمش بره...
Set in Manchester, this is the story of four children who accidentally stumble into the dying world of Elidor and are set the task of safeguarding the four Treasures of Elidor against the forces of darkness that threaten to overwhelm it.
But those forces find a way into our world and the children find themselves in a race to find the mysterious Findhorn, whose song will bring salvation to Elidor.
Garner sets his action very much in this world, and Elidor is, right up until the very end, shown as a world almost destroyed by fear and darkness.Note to JK Rowling: Read this and see how it's possible to tell a magical, involving story in 20 chapters and 200 pages.
Elidor featured for merely a chapter or two - then the story follows the four children as they run around their new home and through Manchester trying to conceal the 'Treasures' of Elidor - disguised as odd bits of junk.
The children who would have read this book when it first came out would have been entirely different people.
Elidor, that strange halfway-house book between Garner's more conventional children's fantasies and his truly powerful, timeshifting work in Owl Service and Red Shift.Four children find themselves almost randomly in an urban wasteland and pass through to another world.
As time goes on, the children begin to forget and rationalise their experience, but forces on Elidor are trying to break through, homing in on the Treasures themselves.Elidor is portal fantasy as ghost story.
It is also tight, spare and economical, without a wasted word or scene, and the terrible sacrifice at the end has always stayed with me.
Read this book as a child and really enjoyed the magic in it. When I had children myself it was one of the books I looked forward to reading to them, unlike some books it doesn't lose it's magic when read as an adult. I remember the ending was dissapointing, and when reading it as an adult found the ending so abrupt and without conclusion we checked to see if our second hand copy had a page missing ! It didn't, with a better ending it would have rated 5 but still a very good book.
Elidor, Alan Garnerعنوان: الیدور؛ اثر: آلن گارنر؛ تصویرگر: جولک هلر؛ مترجم: شهرام رجب زاده؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، قدیانی، کتابهای بنفشه، 1384، در 224 ص، مصور، شابک: 9644174224؛ 9789645366115؛ چاپ دوم 1392؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 20 معنوان: الیدور؛ اثر: آلن گارنر؛ تصویرگر: چارلز کیپلینگ؛ مترجم: باجلان فرخی؛ زیرنظر: فریدون بدره ای، مشخصات نشر: تهران، امیرکبیر، کتابهای طلایی، 1349، در 214 ص، مصور، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 20 م
A beautiful book that absolutely terrified me as a child yet compelled me so much that I read it several times over. It has stuck with me into adulthood and flashes of it come back at odd times. The violinist in the ruined church, the pull of the standing stones, the desolation of Elidor and the absolute terror of the shadowy figures melting through the wall into the real world. Alan Garner is such an underrated writer. I need to read this again!
I think I was mistaken and did not actually read this as a child. I'm not positive, though, some of the elements seem familiar...
It is only later than Roland begins to conceive of himself as in some way allied with Malebron in the battle between light and dark forces in Elidor.
It is even partly true that Elidor is saved in spite of, rather than because of, Roland’s efforts in the second part of the story.Back in the real world, Roland becomes passionately enamoured of the idea of himself as the champion of Good, the ally of Malebron, dedicated to the salvation of Elidor.
The language and descriptions of landscapes are beautiful, but the characters of the children are not particularly vivid. I prefer Weirdstone.
Minor Garner, but notable for its urban/suburban settings. A thoughtful update on the Narnia motif, with a boldly bleak ending subversive of the escapist fantasy tradition.
Given the length of most fantasy books nowadays, with trilogies and series appearing more often than not, it's surprising that Alan Garner managed to pack so much tension into such a short book.
This would be a great book to get confident readers interested in fantasy.
I'm sure Alan Garner's The Owl Service was one of the books which sparked my first forays into the genre when I was twelve or thirteen.
This is no horror, but it does build on childhood nightmares.'The darkness grew,' said Malebron.
What could I do?''Nothing,' said Malebron, 'without me.
He wanted to fix every detail in his mind for ever, so that no matter what else happened there would always be this." It's been a number of years since I read Garner's books.
Written in the late '60's and my copy a reprint from the early '80's - it has a definite Narnia plot running - thin walls between our world and another that is being swallowed by darkness and needs the help of four siblings (David, Nicholas, Helen & Roland).
I'll be on into reading the next book in the series and see if it keeps me guessing, too.
Hence, the reason it found its way to the “bargain bin”.Putting this fact aside, the story itself was well done.
However, in the real world, the items cause problems with the power source and give off static electricity.The older children are oblivious to the signs, but the younger ones are not.
So when the other world reaches out for the items, the children are not prepared and keep missing the signs.
Although I think children’s books have evolved a lot since the time this book was written, but that doesn’t mean we should give older book a miss.
When only Roland is left, he finds that the heavy iron-handled door which the mysterious lame fiddler urges him to open, is a portal into the troubled land of Elidor.Elidor is a wild and empty kingdom on the point of being devoured by the forces of evil.
The lame fiddler of Manchester is the lame King Malebron of Elidor and he charges Roland to help him to regain the three treasures which are held in the Mound of Vandwy.I recommend you to read this because this is a good book, but personally I didn't like it as much as other books I have read.
Elidor seems like it will be a conventional story of children saving the day in another world, so when the four siblings returned to their own right away it was a pleasant surprise.
The "magic" is pleasingly grounded without being overexplained.
The main character, Roland's, desperate persistent belief in the magic in the face of his siblings' attempts to forget leads to convincing feelings of frustration and resentment and to an eenie weenie smidge of doubt.
The interactions between the siblings are very strong and there's good atmosphere.
In terms of actual action and plot the story is a little slender, but what's there is good.
The problem may be that this isn't the kind of book I thought it was. The ending was abrupt and unsatisfying in a way that forced me to re-evaluate everything up till then. It feels like an E. Nesbit/C.S. Lewis children's adventure story until the last two pages, when it suddenly becomes a grown-up critique of that sort of story. It may be profound literature, but it doesn't work as a story.
It's Garner, so it's utterly brilliant (of course). Interesting to see the kids in the story using a Ouija board - you don't get that in many modern children's novels! One of my favourite last lines ever, too: 'The song faded. The children were alone with the broken windows of a slum.'
Roland, Helen,Nicholas , and David are lured into an old church where things are not exactly as they seem. This is the beginning of an adventure for these children....They will find things they never knew were possible.
Sunday R4x. Classic fantasy with Mossie Cassidy.http://www.bbc.co.uk/iplayer/episode/...Nah! Not for me at this time.
Well, that was just ... weird.

This was my first Alan Garner.
I only discovered it because I was researching names with some phonetic resemblance to "Arthur" for a story I'm writing and I stumbled on the name "Elidyr" and the associated Welsh folktale.
Elidor clearly takes some inspiration from that old story.I was surprised at how little of the story actually takes place in Elidor.
Most of it is back in Manchester with the kids sort of debating and wondering how much of what they experienced was actually real.
Not what I expected, but it was executed very well nonetheless.
I'll definitely be reading more of Mr. Garner's work.
When I was 12, I was terribly badly bullied at school, even attempting suicide at 14. This book made me realise that in some situations, weird and other-worldly can be strong. Roland saves his brothers and sister because he believes in Elidor, whereas they become trapped by the material world.I'd like to thank Alan Garner for writing a book that gave me hope, and a belief that there's a lot more to our world than what we can immediately see.
Alan Garner is a fabulous children's author. I love that he does baby you - there are things in this book which made me think twice, and some that left me puzzled. But that is a good thing! And those trademark abrupt endings!
