https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22478.The_Origin_of_Consciousness_in_the_Breakdown_of_the_Bicameral_Mind
I am giving Julian Jaynes’ The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind (The Origin) four stars not because I’ve become a devoted follower of his theory – I haven’t – but because it reflects exactly how I feel about it – I “really liked it.” Jaynes writes in such a commanding manner that you’re helplessly swept along to the end (at which point, you can finally catch your breath and begin to assess what’s just happened).

Combining analyses of psychology, archeology, and ancient literature, Jaynes comes up with an astounding hypothesis: early man's mind was nothing like the thing we carry around in our skulls today.
Mass hallucination was an essential tool for early social organization, one that evolved into modern individuated consciousness only as circumstances changed.
Despite the even scholarly tone, Jaynes often sounds like a crank, though it's not clear if it's his scholarship that's at fault or the fact that his thesis is just too marijuana-friendly.This book's weirdness, however, is an essential part of its continued popularity.
He explores the spooky intersection of madness, consciousness, and the ancient world in a scientific theory that accounts for gods and oracles without wholly explaining them away.
An archaic individual is an assemblage of limbs, connections, trunk, head, neck, (s)he is a puppet set in motion by outside forces such as enemies, social circumstances, feelings (which are described and perceived as objective agencies): 'Man is an open target of many forces which impinge on him, and penetrate his very core'.
He does not possess a central agency of action, a spontaneous 'I' that produces its own ideas, feelings, intentions, and differs from behaviour, social situations, 'mental' events of [the Homeric/archaic view].
It is nowhere to be found within [the Homeric/archaic view].
فرضیهی کلی کتاب این است که انسانهایی که حدود ده هزار تا چهار هزار سال پیش از میلاد زندگی میکردند دارای آگاهی نبودند و ذهنی دوساحتی داشتند. انسانهای اولیه مانند بیماران اسکیزوفرنیک صداهایی میشنیدند که به آنها امر و نهی میکرد و این صداها کارکرد همان آگاهی را داشت. پس از تغییراتی مانند به وجود آمدن خط و... این ذهن دوساحتی فروپاشید و آگاهی جای آن را گرفت کتاب خیلی خوبی بود. از دستهی کتابهای مغز شخم زننده همراه با لذتِ یادگیری
فرضیه‌ی کلی کتاب این است که انسان‌هایی که حدود ده هزار تا چهار هزار سال پیش از میلاد زندگی می‌کردند دارای آگاهی نبودند و ذهنی دوساحتی داشتند. انسان‌های اولیه مانند بیماران اسکیزوفرنیک صداهایی می‌شنیدند که به آنها امر و نهی می‌کرد و این صداها کارکرد همان آگاهی را داشت. پس از تغییراتی مانند به وجود آمدن خط و... این ذهن دوساحتی فروپاشید و آگاهی جای آن را گرفت کتاب خیلی خوبی بود. از دسته‌ی کتاب‌های مغز شخم زننده همراه با لذتِ یادگیری
Although flawed in some important respects, it is profoundly provocative, suggesting areas for further speculation and research not only in psychology, but also in the cultural anthropology of religions.The primary flaw of Jayne's work is his literary evidence for the claim that humans didn't develop reflective consciousness until ca.
Appendices by Homer scholars, particularly those specialized in the history of the texts of the Iliad, would have been valuable.
Jaynes' suggestion that auditions and hallucinations, that aural and visual apparitions, were at one time normative for everyone and still remain normal in the early stages of cognitive development helped me look at religious history much more sympathetically.
In the process of trying to decide where to begin my review of The Undoing Project: A Friendship That Changed Our Minds, it suddenly occurred to me that revisiting Julian Jaynes' 1976 book would be a place to start.
Then (and here I refreshed my mind via Wikipedia), over the millennium running roughly from 1800 to 800 BCE, consciousness as we now experience it emerged, so that deciding what to do no longer consisted of hearing and obeying the voices of the gods.Ah!
We are above our biology, or so we think.Also see: Books, "The Voices in Our Heads" -- Why do people talk to themselves?
Jaynes has an answer: we created them all unconsciously, in the pre-conscious mentality he calls "the bicameral mind," where we were practically unconscious automatons obeying the hallucinated voices of gods.
The long answer is that metaphor is the way we understand things in the world and that consciousness is essentially the metaphor of the world we have created in our mind.
This skill was developed over thousands of years, following the collapse of an earlier system for responding creatively to unique stimuli.
All societies have experienced, at some point, a total failure of these Bicameral systems - the breakdown in the Fertile Crescent occurred around 1500 BC.
After reading this book, I made it a point to direct all of my scholarly effort to convincing myself of its spuriousness, because if I could not, then all literary argument would seem to me to be completely inneffective.
In short, if  Julian Jaynes could effectively prove his thesis in this book, then anyone could be capable of proving anything, regardless of validity.
مدت زمان زیادی برای خواندن این اثر صرف کردم از آذر نود و چهار تا مرداد نود و پنج ، سه جلد که هر کدام
ستارهی کمام به دلیل این بود که ده درصد هم از این کتاب نفهمیدم نه این که چیزی از ارزشهای احتمالی کتاب کم کنه.خیلی سخت بود آقا. خیلی. اشکم در اومد.
ستاره‌ی کم‌ام به دلیل این بود که ده درصد هم از این کتاب نفهمیدم نه این که چیزی از ارزش‌های احتمالی کتاب کم کنه.خیلی سخت بود آقا. خیلی. اشکم در اومد.
Impressive, beautiful, amazing, and totally wrong. Rivals Leibniz for elegant incorrectness.
A mind-fuck of the highest order. A work of polymathemetical genius, probably wrong on many accounts but absolutely original in its approach. Extremely readable, unpretentious prose and probings into one of life's coolest mysteries. You'll never read the Oddessey the same way again, or think about schizophrenia or Ancient Sumeria in the same way. It's speculative power has made many a head spin, I think.
In the Near East though, around Jaynes' critical date, this 'bicameral' mentality broke down due to demographic (and other) stresses, and was gradually replaced by the self-aware modern mind; the resulting societies, this time, were composed of true individuals.This book is in three parts: the first outlines the theory, the second examines the evidence and the third considers possible vestiges of the bicameral mind still around today; and if all this sounds like Velikovsky or von Daniken, well it isn't exactly.
My own scepticism comes from a different direction altogether though: another implication of this theory is that, if true, it would mean that only human beings are conscious - something I don't believe for a minute.
چرا این کتاب بسیار تعیین کننده و قابل اهمیت است؟ جون نگاهی قدسی زدایی شده و خود انتقاد گری دارد که به موضوعی مهم از زاویه دیدی شجاعانه و بدیع نگاه کرده است.
این کتاب را به هر علاقه مندی به ساحت معنا پیشنهاد میکنم.
تنها معضل کتاب به گمانم چیدمان نسبتا نا صحیح آن در فصول دوم و سوم است.
فرضیات و پیش فرض های نسبتا سنگین او باعث میشود خیلی ها به فصل چهارم نرسند.
به شما قول میدهم که اگر از سه فصل اول گذر کنید ، سواره آن را به پایان خواهید برد.
Jaynes disagrees with the idea that consciousness is a product of animal evolution, but instead cites scientific studies, archaeological evidence and a close examination of ancient texts such as the Illiad and the Old Testament to offer an alternative theory of consciousness: it was a gradual, learned response to catastrophic events of 3000 years ago.
Jaynes lays out the evidence to support his theory in this 450+ page book (which he charmingly refers to as “this essay”) by first exploring what consciousness is not and the origin of civilization, then turning to in depth examinations of archaeological records.
I did read this book, or at least part of it, but really I just put it on here to impress people.
This chapter is quite like the introduction, but instead of trying to work through all the things that people have used to describe consciousness as an unquestionable requirement in humans, he takes the reader on a quest to discover just how many of the things we do day-to-day are not conscious activities no matter how mentally involved they may be.
The picture of the scientist sitting down with his problems and using conscious induction and deduction is as mythical as a unicorn".Chapter 2 is called "Consciousness" and he focuses on language, specifically written language, as being a requirement for the the start of consciousness in humans.
meaning that it only poses questions it can answer, in general, questions that do not shake things up too badly so that we lose our ability to even know if a question has or has not been answered.What I like especially about this book is that Jayne takes us to a far away place.
And the idea that metaphors are the basic mode of understanding does follow many contemporaneous thinkers today, even if it was less compellingly so when he wrote this book.
including the question as to what is the proper authority of how we should know things.For me, the key to what seems to be confusion in reading Jaynes' work comes from the position of understanding as metaphor.
Drawing on archaeological evidence and making a very good case of it, he shows how this other state of mind, where gods spoke and men found themselves obeying unconsciously (in the same way that we unconsciously brush our teeth or go about our habitual routine without deliberation) the demands of what would later be characterized as religion.
It's easy to relax into this idea and see the transformation of (admittedly very western ideas of) civilization from a superstitious, god-laden, tribal past into a time of abstract thought and precedent-based legal tradition in the modern nation-state.And yet, I think of chimpanzees exercising deceit and propaganda, and feel he's missed something very fundamental.
What Jaynes does do is to look at the periods of history and identify a pattern of psychological differences over time by analyzing the writing left to us by those people.
There is no doubt that members of our modern cultures think about the world in a vastly different way than people did a few thousand years ago.
Jaynes attempts to plot the course of that change, and show evidence from writing at different times in history.
There is certainly no question that people today think about the world the way we do because we learned it from our culture.
Instead I'll summarize the book with a passage therefrom: "I have endeavored in these two chapters to examine the record of a huge time span to reveal the plausibility that man and his early civilizations had a profoundly different mentality than our own, that in fact men and women are not conscious as are we, were not responsible for their actions, and therefore cannot be given the credit or blame for anything that was done over these vast millennia of time; that instead each person had a part of his nervous system which was divine, by which he was ordered about like any slave, a voice or voices which indeed were what we call volition and empowered what they commanded and were related to the hallucinated voices of others in a carefully established hierarchy.
Will Durant's "Life of Greece, Story of Civilization, Vol II" irritated me to no end because the first 8 hours or so assumed Homer was based directly on real history.
Hollywood movies are just as fake and I won't develop a theory based on reality from them.
Don't waste my time with fiction and then develop a theory of schizophrenia (bicameral mind) accounting for the gods based on that fiction.
His theory starts with the premise that consciousness starts with language.
Daniel Dennett says the same thing in his book on consciousness.
I am giving this a five not because I buy into what Jaynes is saying, actually if anything I finished the book still a 100% skeptical about his ideas, but because his approach, his idea and his presentation was actually extremely good.
Whether this proves true or not it was still vastly interesting and at least a new way at looking at the evolution of man.
I mean when we look at evolution as it is we have to determine SOME point in time where man gained this thing we call consciousness.
Some point in time where man was aware of himself and his surrounding in a way that his ancestors were not.
I have read this book several times. His hypothesis about the acquisition of modern linguistic consciousness is controversial and probably wrong in detail. However, it is very thought provoking, gorgeously written, and is the clearest statement of the uniqueness of the human mind that I have read. Jaynes is (was) a true scholar. He taught himself Greek so he could investigate the nuanced differences in temperament between the Iliad and the Odyssey as part of his analysis of the evolution of modern consciousness. This is itself a true intellectual odyssey which I cannot recommend highly enough.
"It is one of those books that is either complete rubbish or a work of consummate genius, nothing in between!"Richard Dawkins
The Causes of Consciousness– The Instability of Bicameral Kingdoms– The Weakening of Divine Authority with Writing– The Failure of the Gods– The Assyrian Spring– Eruption, Migration, Conquest– How Consciousness Began– The Origin of Narratization in Epics– The Origin of the Analog ‘I’ in Deceit– Natural Selection– Conclusion4.
The Moral Consciousness of the Khabiru– Amos and Ecclesiastes Compared– Some Observations on the Pentateuch– The Loss of the Visual Component– Inconsistency Between Persons– Inconsistency Within Persons– Divination by Gods– The Book of 1 Samuel– The Idols of the Khabiru– The Last of the NabiimBook Three: Vestiges of the Bicameral Mind in the Modern World1.
In this 1976 book, the author discusses his theory on the origin of consciousness and its relation to what he calls the bicameral mind. The main ideas of this theory are:1) Before consciousness, human nature was split in two, an executive part called bicameral god, and a follower part called a bicameral man. Together they constitute the bicameral mind. The bicameral god is auditory voices/hallucinations that guide and direct the bicameral man. The bicameral man follows these directions strictly
In this 1976 book, the author discusses his theory on the origin of consciousness and its relation to what he calls the bicameral mind.
The main ideas of this theory are:1)	Before consciousness, human nature was split in two, an executive part called bicameral god, and a follower part called a bicameral man.
The bicameral god is auditory voices/hallucinations that guide and direct the bicameral man.
2)	Consciousness was learned only after the breakdown of the bicameral mind.
This means that consciousness has risen only in the human species after the development of language.
Jaynes believes that three plus millennia ago humans were, overall, non-conscious automatons similar to Descartes' mechanical animals.
In a large portion, Jaynes bases his theory off the anecdotal "evidence" that the earliest known Greek work "The Iliad" was an historical description of the behavioristic actions of seemingly non-conscious men.
Jaynes believes that the writing of "The Iliad" is definitely NOT a literature device, or an intentional way of conveying a narrative, but is a vivid description of human life at the time it was written.
The end result is an overarching theory of the transformation of human societies and the human psychology, which puts into a different light events from prehistory, the ancient times, and a few instances from more recent history.Now the fun part is that Jaynes tries to make everything fit together in quite a remarkable way.
Admittedly, he can't prove anything with definite certainty because that would mean studying a prehistoric human with modern brain imaging techniques, and that seems practically impossible (closed time-like curves notwithstanding) What he does use as proof are archaeological finds and written documents which he analyses and interprets based on his bicameral mind approach.
