https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/906610.Wild_Justice
Albeit, Wild Justice would be the smudged and harder to read copy.
However, Smith falls into a trap of predictability that, while making the ride no less enjoyable, presents the reader with a bit of an anti-climatic lurch after he realizes he had guessed it all along.Other complaints with Wild Justice are an unnecessarily long and graphic sex scene and Smith’s proclivity to describe his strong female characters as leopardesses; after the fourth or fifth occurrence one no longer has to wonder what images arouse Mr. Smith.
Overall, Wild Justice supports its genre and makes for a good read.
Smith wrong-foots you from the outset with the identity of his shady villain 'Caliph' and keeps twisting you back and forth throughout the story, keeping you guessing at all times.
It would have been better to have had him a previously unintroduced character, I think.My other annoyance was Smith's treatment of women in this story.
It quickly becomes tiresome and, dare I say it, slightly sleazy.These detractions are a real shame, because the handful of violent set-pieces that occur are truly stunning, outclassing the modern-day likes of Andy McNab and Chris Ryan in their realism and page-turning intensity.
peter stride works for thor communications.
peter disregards his superior's orders and saves the situation but loses his job he is not at a loose end as he is much in demand and soon starts working for magda who's husband was abducted and brutally tortured before a 25 million ransom was paid but all is not as it seems and the name caliph appears, starting with south africa who or what r they?
so will peter to try and stop them but this also puts those he loves into danger a fast moving book with great characterisation.
Major General Peter Stride is the head of THOR a anti terror unit composed of British and American Soldiers, which is supposed to act against "militants" (they are never called terrorists) all over the world.
(If i ever wondered were Tom Clancy got his plot for Rainbow 6 now i knowRainbow Six)Peter Stride must be also the must gullible man in the world over the run of the book he is consistently chasing a different track to uncover the identity of terrorist Mastermind CALIPH.
As soon as he is convinced he has the right track he is charging straight for the target.
Smith writes a lot of period piece novels, none of which I was able to "get into." His novel GOLD MINE, I sort of searched for years ago in bookstores, ordered once, but it never arrived: it was made into my favorite Roger Moore movie: GOLD.
Reminds me to get on Amazon and search for it!THE DELTA DECISION is a good action read, in the Alistair Maclean style of tough guy action novels, but I like the way Smith puts words together better; for me, Smith is very easy to read.

Seeing as this is the first I've read by Smith I was intrigued, knowing he writes series.It was well written, in that it was slower than your usual contemporary spy novel, but at the same time it was a really quick read. The plot twists were pretty insane. I enjoyed every minute of it. Even though the character of Magda got on my nerves so many times. Particularly at the end...Saying that, I'm pretty sure I'll be reading more of Wilbur Smith in the future.
Wow, A great book by the master. The plot was neatly set and executed. It kept me guessing close to the end. I will recommend this book anytime. The characters came to life in this action packed book.
This is a fast paced, tension building plot about a commando leader of the elite Atlas Command desire for revenge against a ruthless puppet master terrorist. Of course, he falls in love with the beautiful & wealthy widow along the way.
An aircraft is highjacked on its way to South America. Only one man can save everyone from the terrorists. Another modern terrorist novel about an over worked theme.
But for me it wasn't quite as good as some of Smith's other books (I still can't get Elephant Song out of my head, I really loved that one) and as this was written quite a few decades ago the female characters are subject to some interesting and not particularly balanced descriptions, which I did find a little off-putting at times (especially when applied to characters in their early teens).
On the whole though, this was a good gripping read that keeps you guessing throughout, I just know Smith has done better.
I found intriguing certain philosophies, political analysis and forecasts of democracy under threat, all made in 1980 that are now of concern to all,of is living in democratic states today. I did think that some of those thoughts by the author were rather prescient.
Reading a lot of the older Wilbur Smith novels. This is not one of his best. Plodding and repetitive.
Great high tension in spite of tons of exposition moving the book rather than action.
3.5 stars. It has really good bits, like the highjacking at the beginning and the saving of his daughter. But it also has long, boring bits.
A typical Wilbur Smith book, very descriptive and a good read. I had picked the ending though, well most of it;
I didn't think this one was too long. Good ending, but room for a 4th book if needed.
DisappointedNot what I have become to expect from Wilbur Smith. A lot of rambling. Not the worst I have read, but a long way from the usual.
2nd rateNot up to Mr Smiths usual standard. The whole tome is more like a 1940s Sherlock Holmes novel, with a bit a sex and travel thrown in.
La data lettura è precedente alla data di acquisto perché ho letto un'altra copia
But Wilbur Smith emerges as a good pick, and judging by the present novel, I would definitely try his other ones.Cover of Wild JusticeI had a James Bond-ey type feeling while reading this novel, most particularly the book made me remember the Daniel Craig starrer ‘Quantum of Solace’.
Having got used to movies based entirely on Hijacking, this book came as a welcome change as it boasted of more than just laying the plane, its passengers and governments hostage to the demands of political fanatics.The protagonist Peter Stride, the commander of the Thor Command, an Anti-Terrorist Offensive unit, comes as a hard hitting, strong and a forceful personality who though a well disciplined soldier has an independent streak.
Jaren geleden voor het laatst gelezen, maar het blijft een megaspannend boek. Wel opletten met lezen, anders raak je de draad kwijt
After all, a lot has changed regarding terrorists, airport security, etc.
I especially liked the beginning sequence with the hijacking of the airliner and rescue in South Africa as well as the rescue of Stride’s kidnapped daughter.
This is the “grotesque fruit” native to the Seychelles referred to as “love nuts” because the double globes of the fruit look like a pair of human buttocks.
These were used by the terrorists to smuggle grenades into the hijacked airliner.
I had never heard of this fruit so of course I looked it up on the internet and found an interesting photo:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0bffL5...Treading similar lines to Rainbow six, this is a poor thriller.Problems:1.
the authors inaccuracy's to suit the plot.
'Violence provokes change like the suffragettes'-no this alienated there support, it was women's role in ww1 which aided there quest for the vote far more.2.
Our superman hero shoots a suspect because she'll be out next week (tell that to gitmo bay's inmates) which leads a reprisal bombing and no progress in the investigation, yet were supposed to feel sorry for him.3.
the stereotypical villains-bisexual (suggesting Smith's homophobia if this is a contrast to our womanising hero),mania laughter.4.
the plot holes.
'Our Hero' was apparently in the olympics.

The chase of an international terrorist 'Caliph' could have been interesting, but the strings of the plots are the size of boat ropes ; add to that a retching love affair and the overly detailed description of any place, piece of clothing, piece of equipment, attitude and thoughts, it was not hard to fast forward to the end of that long book.One detail though : it has a very interesting view on communist terrorism at the beginning, as seen from post 9/11 eyes. Remember the book was written during the 70's, in a complete other world....
A below average book from Wilbur. A plot for which no research was needed (apart from some traveling to some destinations)Wilburs algorithm for books (Afrika, suspence, cruelty, sex and violence) was too easily applied.To write a plot with very handsome, very strong, multi-skilled and multi language and very very rich main persons every scenario is possible.But may be I read too many Wilburs ? (About 25)
Ahh what a very satisfying book. Chock full of mystery, action, political intrigue, add a dash of romance and you have one heck of a read. Its the sort of book whos action keeps you reading and the mystery keeps you coming back.Slightly predictable but very forgivable since he keeps it at a great pace to not belabor anything. Highly recommend for those folks who enjoy the political mysteries, action, or just all round good fun.
story starts with hijacking a plane. rescue operation. like most English movies hero saves and story starts here..this novel contains action scenes enough for 3-4 movies.but as a writer( haven't read his African series yet) Wilbur Smith not impressed me. I read only two books but not fully enjoyed it..
Not something that I would usually read, but hey, it was there, and I didn't have anything else lying around.A little weird to read a 1979 rendition of terrorism in 2010. If you like action, war, terrorism themed books this one is pretty good, but despite the plot twists, I knew early on in the book who the bad guy was.
