https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6273.The_Collected_Poems_of_Wilfred_Owen
There is modernity in art breaking through the lines of the trenches, beauty for beauty's sake dying with the idealism that could not be kept in the face of bitter reality...I keep thinking of Rudyard Kipling's world, an intact ethical system with the honour of the British Empire as a guiding star, and how this world was brutally destroyed when he pressured the system to let his myopic son Jack enrol in the war, only to lose him forever shortly afterwards.
If in some smothering dreams, you too could pace Behind the wagon that we flung him in, And watch the white eyes writhing in his face, His hanging face, like a devil’s sick of sin; If you could hear, at every jolt, the blood Come gargling from the froth-corrupted lungs, Obscene as cancer, bitter as the cud Of vile, incurable sores on innocent tongues,— My friend, you would not tell with such high zest To children ardent for some desperate glory, The old Lie: Dulce et decorum est Pro patria mori.The title is from Horace: It is sweet and right to die for your country.This collection includes Owen’s pre-war poems and lots of fragments of poems.
I've started reading WW1 poetry every year at this time, last year it was Rupert Brooke   this year I have sampled one of the most famous anti-war poets of them all, Wilfred Owen.  Read his Wikipedia page - his experiences were horrifying and he was killed in action a week before the Armistice. I'm going to be presumptuous and assume that this talented, sensitive young man would literally have been a shellshocked wreck if he survived. How could he not be?From his most famous poem Dulce et Decoru
I've started reading WW1 poetry every year at this time, last year it was Rupert Brooke 
this year I have sampled one of the most famous anti-war poets of them all, Wilfred Owen.
How could the mind that envisaged the above survive unscathed.Our local monument is now lit at night and I went to the first night on the 24th (the eve of ANZAC Day) Interesting that was was originally planned was diluted because of public apathy and the expense - and that it has taken close on 100 years to be lit at night.
The greater the number of people that die, the better the poetry.
The more that it is a cruel and senseless death, the better the poetry.
If you don't feel it in the solar plexus, if it doesn't make you short of breath, if it doesn't take your breath away, then it's not good war poetry.
And so, does that mean, it wasn't a good war; that is, the war wasn't cruel, pointless, bloody enough to rate on the scale of the world's atrocities to make it worthy for the poet's pen?For what it's worth, Wilfred Owen's poetry hits me in the solar plexus.
I have alway loved the poetry of Wilfred Owen, the power of his words are haunting and honest from a man that was suffering through the trenches and all its horrors of WWI. This book gave me more of insight into the man and his relationship plus just a few things that where happening around the time as each poem was written. This was a really good book to read over time.
For anyone out there that wishes to understand the effects of war in the minds of a young man, read his poem "Dulce et Decorum Est" as it is one of the greatest I have read, written in such a descriptive manner you feel as if you were the one dying in the trenches. Truly beautiful in the traumatic of it all.Dulce Et Decorum Est read by Christopher Eccleston
In all my dreams, before my helpless sight, He plunges at me, guttering, choking, drowning.
If in some smothering dreams you too could pace Behind the wagon that we flung him in, And watch the white eyes writhing in his face, His hanging face, like a devil's sick of sin; If you could hear, at every jolt, the blood Come gargling from the froth-corrupted lungs, Obscene as cancer, bitter as the cud Of vile, incurable sores on innocent tongues,— My friend, you would not tell with such high zest To children ardent for some desperate glory, The old Lie: Dulce et decorum est Pro patria mori"

Umpteenth re-read of some of the most powerful poetry ever written and a big reason I am a committed pacifist since I first read this collection as a child.
I was particularly impressed by the poet's ability to convey the feelings of war, the desperation of the trenches, the sense of loss, and even more so by being able to do so using such a beautiful language.Στο τέλος αυτής της σειράς αναγνωσμάτων μου για τον πρώτο Παγκόσμιο Πόλεμο δεν θα μπορούσα να παραλείψω κάποια από τα πολύ γνωστά αντιπολεμικά ποιήματα που γράφτηκαν από στρατιώτες εκείνη την εποχή.
Ίσως ο πιο γνωστός από αυτούς τους ποιητές είναι ο Wilfred Owen, που πολέμησε μέχρι τον τραγικό θάνατό του, λίγο πριν από τη λήξη του πολέμου, και τα ποιήματά του θεωρούνται μερικά από τα καλύτερα της βρετανικής λογοτεχνίας.
However, with Owen, poetry is not a chore, but Owen's cognitive approach to war has really changed the way that I, and millions of others, view any form of belligerence (especially between nations).
His poetry is unique in its own respect, and Owen captures the imagination and empathy of his reader in a way that no other academic subject can, which explains why even that infamous Charles would stop talking and listen attentively to Owen's masterpieces which have changed the world...
Even if you do not necessary love poetry, you cannot fail but to admire Owen.
However, there is a tangible change in style and quality when Owen joins the army, especially after one particularly traumatic experience in 1916 that got him diagnosed with shell shock and sent to Edinburgh for treatment.
He was encouraged to write as part of his therapy and he befriended one of his heroes, Siegfried Sassoon, who had been "diagnosed" with "shell shock" as well after writing a controversial letter that condemned the war effort and the government's motives.
Their relationship was life-changing for Owen and his work shows an increase in motivation and confidence: the poems become more personal, more honest, and far more painful to read (in a good way).
Not poetry for poetry, but poetry expressing sorrow and futility of war."Earth's wheels run oiled with blood.""Happy are those who lose imagination: They have enough to carry with ammunition."Owen died on November 4, 1918 exactly one week before the armistice, almost to the hour. His mother received the telegram informing her of his death as the church bells were ringing, celebrating the end of the war.
His poems are beautiful okay.
This book begins with a chronology of his twenty five years and a succinct introduction to his life and his poems with Hibberd’s comments“What did English poetry gain from Beaumont Hamel – or lose in the grey dawn on the canal bank at Ors, seven days before the Armistice?”What follows is a selection of Owen’s letters and poems in chronological order ending in October 1918 (the month before he was killed) with Spring Offensive.
I named my son Owen. Need I say more. Ok, well Rupert,Sigfried and Wilfred were just too odd for a little guy to carry through school.
The first Wilfred Owen poem I ever read was the first one anybody ever reads: “Dulce et Decorum est.” It was in high school, and I was already a history reading nerd by then, so I knew a bit about WWI.
But when I read Owen’s poem I felt and understood the war in a way historical accounts and even All Quiet on the Western Front couldn’t convey to me.
I learned about the power of poetry from Owen.His collected works are uneven, with some poems being much better than others.
The imagery from Dulce et Decorum Est will haunt me for a long time. His use of consonantal rhyme is distinctive and beautifully deployed in service to his themes.
Not until I discovered the poems of Wilfred Owen.
It’s not that I didn’t like the poem.
The poem Anthem for Doomed Youth is perhaps one of Owen’s most lyrical poems, lamenting those lost in battle and that so many die in war that they are forgotten and he compares the fallen soldiers to slaughtered cattle.
It is first of all Owen’s experiences in war that made it possible for him to write this type of poetry at all.
Owen’s ability with literary technique and complex use of syntax combined with his war-time experiences help to create amazingly memorable and vivid poetry.
He has poems such as "The Little Mermaid," a 624-line epic that is quite readable, and shows some great influence by Keats, Coleridge, Shakespeare, Spenser and Shelley, especially "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner." Had he survived, might we regard him a significant speculative poet?This collection allows us to ponder where he was going with fragments such as "An Imperial Elegy" or "The Wrestlers," regarding Hercules and other figures of Greek myth.
Owen penned poems such a "The Rime Of The Youthful Mariner," "O World of Many Worlds" and "Who Is The God of Canongate?" and while one has to account for the poetic tastes of the time and the importance of rhyme, there's much that remains readable and worth reading.
I think owen is much better at writing on war than any other thing -- evenso I worry because his lines are so nice sounding and pathos filled -- I worry about the ethics of having war poetry sound so melodic (though sad).
I feel that CDL and blunden exaggerate owen's talents; certainly he is a fine war poet, but I am not sure he is among the best, but that's just me.
he does not have sassoon's talent for irony (I suppose, that's fair though, it's not his thing) but anyway all in all I'm not quite 'inspired' (or more appropriately, distressed) that said, he is quite enjoyable to read, and I don't regret having this around at all.
Wilfred Owen was the first poet to make me even interested in the genre, which I suppose some people would find to be as a bit of a surprise.
For the longest time, the genre intimidated me, but then a friend started talking about how Owen twisted his words and the poignant sadness of his short life's tale, and I reasoned, "Why not?" So I nosed around the Poetry Foundation and found a few I rather liked.
It was a wise decision.Naturally, some of the poems within are rough, but given that none of these were necessarily meant for publication due to Owen's untimely death, they're all exquisite little creatures.
"At a Calvary near the Ancre" by Wilfred Owen (late 1917-early 1918).Here is a rendition of the poem
I came across Wilfred Owen while researching my novel set in WW1. his poetry is beautiful, haunting, and timeless, but somehow very approachable. The pain and anguish he brings to his most powerful pieces shook me and the beauty of his words made me feel like I was talking to an old friend trying to deal with terrible tragedy. Like Sigfriend Sassoon, his "on-the-ground" poetry does more for describing the soldier's experience than any reported account could dare.
There are really not that many effective anti-war poems.
"Strange Meeting" is one of the poems you are most likely to come across.
It is set in a place after death where those from both sides meet.
This poem reminds us through a brilliant dialogue that whatever death might be, all those killed in war share that same result.
The only reason I didn't give this book five stars is that the language is at times dated, as might be expected.
(I would only reduce it to four and a half stars, but couldn't do that here.)
Favorite Poem = Dulce et Decorum Est
War is horrifically brutal, yet Owen describes the horrors with such grace.
An eloquence which captures the abominations of war, leaves no doubt in one's mind that in his short lifetime he was subject to horrors no human should have to endure.
His poetry, whilst taking inspiration from the Romantics, has his own deeply haunting style.
It is nothing short of life-altering for me.
"If you could hear, at every jolt, the bloodCome gargling from the froth-corrupted lungs,Obscene as cancer, bitter as the cudOf vile, incurable sores on innocent tongues,My friend, you would not tell with such high zestTo children ardent for some desperate glory,The old Lie: Dolce et decorum estPro patria mori."
(3,5)
Grim and miserable, like all the other WW1 poets, but more relatable than some of the others.
Loved this!
