https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/287377.Betsy_in_Spite_of_Herself
Fine, I guess.
Julia is as iconic as ever and Betsy's family are all wonderful, but the whole episode with Phil is a bit lacklustre and he doesn't even have enough character to be detestable.
(Maybe because there wasn't a single Phil Brandish figure in Maud Hart Lovelace's life, so there was no reality to draw inspiration from??)I wasn't so keen on the uncontextualised usage of 'To thine own self be true' either, but that's because I'm endlessly picky.Onwards and upwards, though!
Hopefully we'll be seeing more of:"Have you read these?" Betsy asked.
I've read everything."
I also liked all the German words included in this story.These books make me way too hungry though; the food is plentiful and always sounds so delicious, even the stuff I would never eat and the stuff I wouldn’t even like and never would have liked.I really enjoyed Betsy’s trip to see Tib and hearing about Julia’s trip to see opera, I would have appreciated more of Tacy but liked what was included, and I love Joe. I can tell I’m going to be delighted with Joe.I found it interesting that the kids have to buy their schoolbooks for public school!!!
This book, which recounts Betsy's sophomore year in high school really stands out for two things: the absolutely magical visit to Milwaukee to visit Tib at Christmas, and Betsy's attempts to change herself into someone more 'dramatic' and 'mysterious' who could attract a rich guy like Phil Brandish.
But then these books are about adolescence, and the sometimes tough experience of figuring out who you are, and it is entirely natural that someone with an imagination like Betsy's ends up experimenting.
One of the (many) things that I love about this series are the 'life lessons' (still relevant to middle-aged readers) that MHL imparts with such grace.
My least favorite of the series, even though I adore the Christmas in Milwaukee part. I find the whole Phil Brandish episode too heavy-handed.
Sophomore year, Betsy learns a lot about being true to herself.
There are tantalizing glimpses of Joe Willard here, and this time through the whole Grand Opera bit made me cry.
But now I have to read Betsy Was a Junior and that's the hardest one for me.12/2009 Betsy is a sophomore here, and though she learned some important lessons her freshman year, she is certainly not finished tripping herself up.
She gets an opportunity, about half-way through the book, to spend Christmas in Milwaukee with Tib. She chooses to use this time to re-invent herself, but we as readers are privileged to be immersed in the uniquely German holiday customs of the early part of the last century.
Man, I didn't love Betsy in this one and Phil sucks.
NEVER ENOUGH JOE.
I need this book.
This book was really fun to read. This book was relatable since it was about Betsy's high school years. It was really fun to watch Betsy go to her first dance, get her first boyfriend, and try to change her personenality. The book was a very good addition to the Besty-Tacy books.
This book is just so amazing! The main theme is 'to thine ownself be true.' Well, Betsy really needs to learn this lesson, as she starts out this book deciding to be a 'new and improved Betsy.' Or should I say Betsye? Anyway, she puts on new clothes, new perfume, and a new personality ... and goes out to catch a new boy! And she gets him ... though, of course, not as Betsy ... as 'Betsye.' xDHere we have more hard lessons and more hilarious situations and more cuteness. Honestly, it's just the best!~Kellyn Roth, Reveries Reviews
The never-ending goings-on of The Crowd doesn't interest me particularly.So I started book 6 and then put it aside for a while.
It's fascinating that good girls didn't hold hands, but no one bats an eye at high school senior Julia going around with Harry and then--Betsy's teacher!
It is an oft-written story about a girl who tries to change herself for a boy, and then the boy doesn't like the real her, and then she's better off for it.
It's too bad that Betsy is told that she's better off having tried to change herself because now she looks better and acts better, and that she needs to keep her new skills for future men.
I liked this entry in the series reasonably well, especially the journey to Milwaukee, but I found the inevtiable 'I must change myself' plot a little wearying -- I say inevitable because it does seem to be a consistent part of growing up for those children who have the space to think so much about their identity and how they wish to be seen, so I cannot really begrudge that Betsy goes through it -- but since I knew how it would end, I was glad when that phase of her development was done.
I missed a book or two since the library doesn't have the whole set.I was glad that in the end Betsy grew up and matured to a point where she knew she could just be herself and didn't have to do silly things just to impress.Oh, and another thing that turned me off as a teen was the illustrations.
It's not just because I like Lois Lenski's art in the first four books...
It just seems flippant and fluffy and changes the entire mood and even seems to affect the characters.Oddly, although the later art is more realistic, for what it's worth, I find that the simplicity of Lois Lenski's art seems far more approachable.
A snapshot from this book that shows why I love this series so:Walking home from a chaperoned school dance [where the dances tended towards waltzes instead of popping and locking and twerking and jerking]Betsy's escort, Phil, tries to hold her hand, an act she deems 'spoony'Betsy: You might as well know that I don't hold hands.
She stops this spooniness immediately, like any decent Mankato girl would.I know that I should not glorify these old-fashioned series--Anne of Green Gables and Little House on the Prairie included--but I can't help myself.
I mean, even the modern 21st century girl needs to know how to ward of spoony gentlemen...
To thine own self be true, Betsy ("Betsye") girl!
I love this one so much.
All of us women and girls can identify with Betsy's challenges to be something different than who and what she is.
I love how after all the New Year's celebrations for the 1908 Leap Year, Betsy and Tib stay up all night drinking coffee and talking about all the changes they are going to make in their "personalities" as they sit by the window looking out at the purple snow and starlight.
It's good to see Betsye surrender and acknowledge her true, best Bestyness. It's honest to the teenage experience, and still delightfully quaint. Lovelace's signature Victorian charm is on parade as usual, but her darn preoccupation with Mr. Brandish makes Heavens to Betsy superior. Still, I'd throw on a Merry Widow hat and waist in a second if I could join this wonderful world of Deep Valley!
Re-read 9/02.Re-read 1/08.Re-read 4/11.Re-read 8/12 (in lieu of convention).Re-read 10/13.Re-read 11/16. Needed it in the run-up to election. Hillary, "to thine own self be true."
This book is a classic in so many ways. In every chapter there is a different story or tale of their life. They also go back to previous times in the book.
Re-read in 2015, just as good as ever!
I remember liking this one the best out of the whole series when I read it back in middle school. Still love these characters.
Love: ALMOST EVERYTHING AND EVERYONE. ESPECIALLY JOE.Dislike: Phil Brandish and his sister Phyllis.Enough said.
I sometimes flatter myself by thinking that Betsy and Tacy were me and Shaye in a previous life.
There is a new boy at school this year, named Phil whom Betsy would like to “go” with, and she thinks that in order to do so, she would have to change herself to become mysterious, and less like herself.
Betsy also gets to know Joe Willard a bit better during the annual essay contest.I find that ion some ways, this series is like “The Whole Truth” series, story-wise.
I don’t think I could go a whole year without revisiting, and re-reading the series again, because I find, I think of the books a lot even when I am not reading it.
Phil doesn't care to mix with the rest of the Crowd, so Betsy's relationship with him gets more intense than her previous in-Crowd group dates, and pulls her from her other friends.
The more time she spends with Phil, the more difficult it becomes to sustain her new persona.
(view spoiler)[In the end, Betsy's house of lies doesn't come tumbling down so much as she kicks it down because she'd rather have fun with her friends and geek out about writing than be serious and poised all the time.
It still doesn’t have the magic of Betsy’s childhood books, but at least now we were ready and prepared for teenage Betsy.
Like the last book, there were snippets that reminded me of the Betsy books of yore, such as reading the adventures in Milwaukee (TEENAGE TIB!!!
(We have been preferring Tacy, Tib, and even Julia over Betsy, though.) The silver lining is that reading these with my 9.5 year old provides a safe, clean structure in which to talk about timeless teen issues like dating and staying true to yourself.
Like the last book, I’ll give this two stars and reevaluate on a subsequent read.
She learns a lot this year.
She learns a little bit of German from visiting her old friend Tib in the magical land of Milwaukee.
She learns that you should never try to change who you are to please a boy.
She learns that her best friend Tacy is the most unselfish person on Earth.
She realizes that it was never real with Phil because she was trying to reinvent herself to please him.
At the first sign of the real Betsy, Phil decides she is not his kind of girl.
I get it, though, and the lesson Betsy learns in this book is a very important one for teen/tween girls.
It also makes me mad to see such a matter-of-fact "bad" teacher in the book.I do enjoy Julia here, and Mr. Ray's gift to her is brilliant.
I also like, as always, the very straight-forward way Lovelace writes.
Lovelace avoids that by showing a different angle to this age-old issue: she shows Betsy's misguided notion that if she changes, the change will be for the better.
She finds herself as someone she doesn't enjoy with someone who doesn't respect her.
She lets her stories unfold in a truly organic way.
The big story here is Phil Standish, and in a book that spans the school year, that plot doesn't really even start until after Christmas.
There's just such a natural unfolding of events.I love how Lovelace lets Phil take over Betsy's life, and how untrue to herself she allows Betsy to be.
Her writing and her friends, and how uncomfortable she is allowing anyone to subsume that.
You find me someone who doesn't love Joe Willard, and I'll find you a fool.
It was a charming and enjoyable read.
I loved Betsy's visit to Milwaukee and all the German traditions and phrases.
It was interesting and new for me to learn details about the German immigrants in Milwaukee.I didn't like Betsy in Spite of Herself as much as Heaven to Betsy, mainly because Betsy spend so much time out of character.
I cringed when she turned down things she enjoyed and distanced herself from her friends.
Of course that was kind of the point of the book and it was narrated very believably.
Betsy learned that she has to be true to herself.
This book was my introduction to Betsy Ray when I was young. I had always longingly fondled the books, and finally I decided I was old enough to read one (or else I just didn't ask my mum if I could check it out). This book began my love of Betsy and Deep Valley and her world. I read the rest of the "older" series before backtracking to find the "younger" series. And this one will always hold a special place in my heart ❤️
