https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81332.Asterix_in_Belgium
In this one, Chief Vitalstatistix takes off for Belgium after hearing from a Roman patrol that they like being in Gaul because the Belgians are worse, and they don't mind getting thumped here...enraged, off the chief goes, with Asterix and Obelix not far behind.The rest of the book involves the 3 Gauls bonding with the Belgians, and competing against to see who is better at thumping Romans.It goes so far as to ask Caesar to officiate the competition, which angers him immensely, so he leads his
In this one, Chief Vitalstatistix takes off for Belgium after hearing from a Roman patrol that they 
Αυτοί οι Γαλάτες! Αιώνες μετά μας δίνουν χαρά και γέλιο. Κλασικό κόμικς που διαβάζεται διαχρονικά από μικρούς και μεγάλους
One of the best volumes in the series, with funny lines and smart connections. I like how meta the rivalry between the Gauls is, as a reference to both the French and the Belgian being prolific comic creators. There's even a reference/tribute to Tin Tin inserted in the story.Goscinny, the writer and co-creator of Asterix died during the making of this volume and from that point in the story it starts raining and the skies are darkened.
Chief Abraracourcix hears an off-hand comment about the Belgians being considered the bravest of the barbarian tribes. A bravery contest ensues. The Romans are not happy. The volume starts slow but evolves into hilarious madness towards the end.My absolute favorite panel? On page 31, Dupont and Dupond announce: -Jules César est arrivé en Belgique.- Je dirais même plus: Cules Jésar est arrivé en Gelbique.
I never really have anything bad to say about Asterix comics (apart from a certain someone always been tied up and silenced at the end of every book- my heart hurts a little for him! But perhaps I wouldn't be so if I heard him with my own ears?). I always find myself rather hungry though after reading Asterix! There were two guest appearances in this book which I greatly enjoyed! :)
Asterix in Belgium (Astérix #24), René Goscinny, Albert Uderzo
En nyt ole ihan varma oliko kyse belgialaisista vai savolaisista, mutta viihdyin silti.
Das war echt schwer zu lesen: ich konnte die meisten Witze nicht verstehen. Das Deutsch dieses Bandes scheint wirklich kompliziert aus und ich konnte die Geschichte nicht völlig schätzen. Asterix, Obelix und Majestix gehen nach Belgien, weil Cäsar gesagt hat, dass die Belgier am tapfersten sind und sie willen beweisen, dass es nicht stimmt. Das ist ein schwacher Grund um eine Geschichte zu schreiben.Ja, der Band ist witzig aber ich habe was Besseres gelesen
Mah… Non comprendo il perché di questa storia: non mi pare, infatti, che la caratterizzazione dei belgi presenti sufficienti spunti umoristici. Sono in tutto e per tutto simili agli altri galli.Problema simile con gli elvezi: http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34...Numerosi ammiccamenti, allusioni ecc., ma si perdono in tavole spesso fastidiosamente spoglie.
Die letzte Zusammenarbeit von Rene und Albert und streckenweise merkt man, dass hier Luft nach oben ist. Nichtsdestotrotz eine großartige Leistung, ein schöner Band, eine gut erzählte Geschichte und liebevoll inszeniert.
The favourite one it was.
Horum omnium fortissimi sunt Belgae
"hey! you forgot to untie me after the last banquet!" -cacofonix
When Chief Vitalstatistix hears a claim (by Caesar himself!) that the Belgians are the bravest warriors in all Gaul, he sets off to Belgian to see if it is true.
Reluctantly, Asterix and Obelix agree to go along with the Chief - with action and hilarity ensuing.
As usual, the writing is simple, filled with puns and one-liners.
Fight sequences (there are many - as the Belgians and our intrepid heroes compete against one another with the hapless Roman garrisons as practice) are fun and colourfully illustrated.
An uncomplicated read, for the Asterix fanboy or newbie.
Belgiasta löytyy gallialaisille kavereita ja lähes samasta puusta veistettyjä. Molemmilla harrastuksina syöminen ja roomalaistan kurmuuttaminen, joten siitähän pistetään naapuruskisat käyntiin ja hommataan Julle tuomariksi.
Another brilliant comic
Loved the guest appearances and all the references in this one!
Le dernier de Goscinny / Uderzo -
Another great adventure of Asterix and Obelix, this time visiting neighbours in Belgium.
Funny comic. Loved how Caesar reacts in the end. :DGood stuff.
i felt it broke some of the rules of the Asterix stories and that brought it down
Of to visit his neighbors to the north.
Astérix chez les Belges - René GoscinnyRating: ★★★ 1/2Review coming soon!
His soldiers agree with him, to the point when they consider being posted to the camps outside Asterix' village as a period of leave.Chief Vitalstatistix is aghast at the idea that his village, which has been the terror of the Romans for years, is now looked upon as relatively harmless...He claims that his villagers are in fact the bravest men of Gaul, and travels to Belgium to prove his point.
A reluctant Asterix and Obelix go with him......To prove that the Gauls are the bravest, Vitalstatistix proposes a competition.
Very funny book. Goscinny has put in a lot of effort.
Asterix, hero of a tribe living in Amorica, is hanging out in the village when some Roman soldiers come marching by.
The Romans are happy.
Well, this gets the village chief, Vitalstatix, really mad, so he decides they must go to Belgium and prove that they, the Amoricans, are the bravest of all Gauls.
Thus begins the adventure.The comedy is non-stop in this book as Asterix, Obelix (his giant friend), Dogmatix (their faithful dog), and Vitalstatix head off to prove their mettle.
The story is a fun romp and I highly recommend this adventure of Asterix.
Mereka merasa bahwa kekuatan mereka tidak dianggap oleh Julius Caesar.Maka, pergilah tiga sekawan, Asterix, Obelix, dan Idefix ke Belgia untuk membuktikannya.Bangsa Belgia dan Bangsa Galia sama-sama suka perang, kuat, dan suka makan.
Untuk membuktikannya, mereka mengadakan perlombaan untuk menghancurkan camp pertahanan Romawi dan menjadikan Julius Caesar sebagai juri.Julius Caesar yang bingung karena mendapat laporan bahwa banyak camp pertahanan Romawi yang hancur, menjadi marah besar ketika ia mengetahui bahwa orang Belgia dan Galia menjadikannya sebagai juri untuk menentukan siapa yang terkuat."Yang terhebat adalah Julius Caesar" teriaknya marah...Bangsa Belgia dan Galia akhirnya berdamai dan bekerja sama mempertahankan diri dari serangan Romawi.Akhir perjalanan Asterix, Obelix, dan Idefix?
Asterix and Obelix went to the forest like always to get a boar and then they saw so many romans so happy that they captured a roman and then the roman said that they are doing a peace cure saying that the Belgium gauls are the strongest guals that the chief of Asterix and Obelix got so surprised that he wanted to go and meet the Belgiums and they have a competition on who is braver and stronger.Opinion: I enjoyed the book because it is funny, interesting and also kind of tells you about what Caesar did in his ages and it kind of connected to history.

My brother was a missionary in France during the 80's and returned with Asterix figures, books, etc.
Since then I seem to have forgotten all about it until seeing it recently in the book "500 Essential Graphic Novels".
So I decided to request a copy from my local library.The Asterix series is light, playful, and has enough content to drive the storyline to the very last page.
I wouldn't consider them to be super engaging, but they are enjoyable.
I don't know that I'll be requesting any more Asterix stories myself, but would recommend them to anyone who has young adolescent children.
