https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138110.The_Ice_Palace
In such a short amount of time and in so few, yet potent, words, Vesaas delivers a chilling, metaphor-driven tale of loss set in the dense winters of Norway.
The snowy landscapes that blanket this novel, and the Ice Palace itself, are just as important characters as the two female leads themselves as Vesaas illustrates them in layers of metaphoric beauty.
This novel reads like a long form poem as there is so much below the surface and the actual words.
While the prose is swift and the novel is short, you would do well to slow down and really examine what Vesaas has written much as you would do with any poem.
Short in length, this novella is poignant in its prose as Vesaas writes of grieving and survivors guilt' in this harrowing coming of age tale.Siss is eleven years old and the most popular girl in her school.
It is inside of this ice palace structure unspoiled by nature that Unn is able to meditate on her feelings about her mother, her father, her new friendship with Siss, and her inherent loneliness.
“Promise in deepest snow from Siss to Unn: I promise to think about no one but you.”Sometimes, only a gleaming glance is enough.
Siss and Unn, two eleven-year old girls living in an isolated, rural community somewhere in Scandinavia, need only a single evening together to forge an uncommon friendship that will change their lives irreparably.
Siss, the popular leader of her peers at school and the beloved daughter of a well-off family, begins the journey with no return to become Unn, the introverted, mysterious girl, who leads an isolated life with her aunt, wrapped up in an irresistible and unsettling aura.
But it’s like the gleaming of stars in a well.
During this meeting Siss and Unn, uncomfortably like new born horses attempting to stand on owns legs, are trying to make friendship, shyly and awkwardly examine own faces in the mirror.
Something pulls them and repulses, girls trying to talk about the secret from Unn’s past, but this scares away Siss, and on the next day Unn takes her secret to the ice palace.
And like sun releases chained with ice land so time will melt frozen crumb in the girl's heart.
And visit at Ice Palace at the end of the winter will be like catharsis.
Sometimes, when you lose someone, the loss is so bewildering and heavy, you have to decide whether to break off a part of yourself in letting them go, or be pulled under with them.It takes courage and experience to take the limb, or aortic chamber, and snap it off, knowing the shards of ice will splinter and wound.
When Unn, a mysterious girl who has recently gone through the traumatic death of her mother, disappears, Siss has the perplexing responsibility of being one of the only people in the world who 'knew' her.
(view spoiler)[ This promise lives on even when one of them is locked in the heart of the Ice Palace forever.
(hide spoiler)]A life being led under the cold sky of a lost one may occasionally ruffle up with the day breeze of sunny developments but the night brings it back into the icy fold; the ice, after all, is indicative of pain, without which there is no happiness.
Vesaas might have viewed life as gossamer of renewed promises but never without one; much like the Ice Palace that stood subdued in summer, embracing dissolution but tirelessly raising its head again in winter without exception.
Like a bleak Scandi rewrite, this also features a lonely girl who makes her way to a magical palace of ice in the wilderness, except that here, instead of belting out a jaunty power-ballad, she succumbs satisfyingly to hypothermia.
The contemporary English translation from Elizabeth Rokkan reads entirely naturally, I thought, and gives you a very clear idea of why Vesaas is considered such a giant of Norwegian letters.Unn never comes back from her trip to the ice palace, and for Siss it becomes a symbol of the danger and awe of the frightening natural world – a symbol to which she knows she must eventually journey herself.
I glanced and saw many five star ratings for this book.
What have I misunderstood?"  I decide that this book simply did not resonate deeply for me.
I loved the descriptions of the changing of the season in a small Scandinavian town and the use of the frozen waterfall as something monstrous, profound, beautiful but inanimate.
I did not believe in the thought processes of Siss.
I did not in the end, believe in this book or the author's vision.
The only thing I believed in was the landscape and the hugeness of the waterfall.
All events are circling around and coming back to a frozen waterfall near their small town in a mountainous district of Norway.Yet this simple story has touched me deeply with its eerie beauty, its sadness and especially with the things left unsaid, unexplained: the silences, the unfinished gestures, the loneliness, the indifference and the mystery of winter landscape to the incursions of the human intruders upon its domain.Warning: may contain spoilers!Siss and Unn are eleven years old and as different from each other as fire and water.
Was she imagining their connection?Both girls pass a restless night and Unn decides, the following morning, that she can't quite face Siss that day, and makes a plan to go down to see the rumored spectacle of the ice palace, knowing that she'll have the solitude she needs to clear her mind.
Unn wants to enter the ice palace, and even though I was ready to vomit from nerves, I needed her to enter it, too.It was the only thing that was right, even though it was disobedient and wrong.
In it a sort of teacher figure is telling the young Maya about how beautiful words can be, how wonderful it is to love them.
And they can be used to build otherworldly palaces made of ice of a beauty that is both extraordinary and deadly: It was a room of tears.
It seems fitting that just as with the coming of the warmer weather the gorgeous ice palace finally crumbles away our heroin’s grief also begins to thaw and life’s instincts gradually win her over.I'm only sorry I cannot read this in Norwegian, for if it was this beautiful in translation....
After Bengtsson’s smooth but engaging jocularity, I was not ready for the lyricism and the evocative tone of Vesaas’s book, and it took me several pages to adjust my senses.
The new coldness made my eyes somewhat numb.The Ice Palace seemed at times a prose poem, a gelid one.
Descriptions, in particular of coldness, and of ice, and of darkness, with the ice palace looming as the undecipherable symbol, but which undeniably withholds death, are the sparkling and biting gems in this book.However, I failed to engage in the mutual fascination that has frozen the two girls into their own icicle.
Read it - Examine the ice palace on the cover of the book and the picture of a girl.
Use your imagination and think of imagery and symbolism, snow, ice, water, new seasons, mental trauma, the mirror that reveals all, two eleven year old girls, an outsider and the other the leader of a group at school.
The catalyst is the ice palace.Meet death and then the birth of the phoenix.
Meet an author who lived in an isolated village in Telemark, a mountainous region in southern Norway, who loved the countryside so much, he stayed there until his death.
Even now people visit the farm where Vesaas lived.Meet pure magic here.
Frostily immaculate and mysterious as the titular ice formation.
Tunnels of ice, spires of ice.
Rooms with only entries and no exits that beckon, beckon.There's so much that fascinates here: the ethereal descriptions of northern landscapes, and accompanying slightly alien compassion of its communities, the inexpressible pre-sexual bonds of children, the inexpressible secrets and promises of self and other, the ice palace, always the ice palace.
as water runs under ice.I seem to be more drawn to these compressed bursts of sheer otherworldy poetics lately, and this is a key example among those.
Based on the ratings, when I first started reading this and feeling unimpressed (and occasionally even a little annoyed), I half-convinced myself that the author had suffered his entire 73 years with a case of Imminent Death Syndrome, along with Male Pattern Baldness and Sorta-Looks-Like-Willem-Dafoe-itis.
Basically, if a My Bloody Valentine album wrote a book, I'm guessing it would go a little something like this.
Leaving her aunt’s house for school early the next morning Unn cannot see Siss so soon instead going on her own to the ice palace.
She becomes Unn by now remaining apart from others at school.
I have no feeling to stand up and cheer as I do when I read something extraordinary-the more I write this review the more I understand how extraordinary, The Ice Palace, is.
A novel with a scarcity of words but with a delicate, dreamlike poetry; a story that makes you taste the coldness and isolation of winter in the middle of the summer; an adult writer who can see through the soul of an eleven year girl, down to her utmost fears; a remembrance of childhood with all its awkward moments; two girls that are linked in life and beyond; a secret that is never spoken, buried forever in ice; a promise that is kept, no matter if it brings estrangement; a wonder of nature, the ice palace, with its cold and deadly beauty.Siss, the privileged child who is the center of her group of friends, meets Unn, an orphaned girl who prefers to stay isolated.
Masalsı bir anlatım, iki küçük kızın dostluğu, çocukluğun yalnızlığı, buz metaforuna sığınarak beynin dehlizlerine yapılan yolculuk.. Kısa ama etkileyici bir kitaptı. Bize bu şiirselliği olduğu gibi hissettiren ve bu kitapla 1973 TDK çeviri ödülünü alan sevgili Melih Cevdet Anday iyi ki bu kitabı çevirmiş biz de okuyabilmişiz.
I promise I will stay true to the love that was only so good as it was never said.I fell in love with a girl and she sat in the desk that remains empty until all of the good people who you know mean good because these are good people let in another girl, a real girl, not Unn's shadow and missing Siss.
I wasn't in love with Siss who is in love with Unn who makes the rules because she stays by the wall.
Does Siss know anything about what happened to Unn. The adults, the search party.
There is the same strength in her loneliness as she stands aloof from others.But the ice palace will be soon destroyed, and then it will look just as before, only the savage waterfall that concerns no one, that fills the air and shakes the earth and will never come to an end.
That evening frozen in time, the vision of that face she beheld in those walls of ice; it will soon be lost in the water.
The Ice Palace crumbles down.
In the beginning, an 11-year-old girl named Siss, reigning queen in the schoolhouse, is beguiled by the mysterious newcomer Unn. Gets invited to her house.
They go to Unn's bedroom and talk about things 11-year-old girl's talk about, but the weird part is the power of their attraction to each other's auras.
No one quite gets why Siss is so silent, but she feels quite strongly that she owes allegiance to Unn and, in this case, allegiance is silence.Subtle stuff is harder to write than most, and Vesaas pulls it off with aplomb.
Siss starts to act mysterious at school, like Unn used to, and now all the other kids are disturbed by it.
(view spoiler)[When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a [wo]man, I put away childish things.
A girl runs home: a mistake, but her fear is assuaged upon approaching her house: mine mounts, having to pause to open the door, forcing myself to look around, to make certain I am alone.
I'd imagined it would look different to her when she was alone, that she would slip out of her window.
It's all very sad, but I'm left satisfied, though I'd hoped I wouldn't be.
Za početak, ovo je žanrovski vrlo neuhvatljivo delo, i pre bih rekla da je u pitanju lirski roman, a da li su u pitanju dve ili jedna devojčica - u tome je, čini mi se, i čitava tajna dela.
Ako je stil možda jednostavan u smislu da nije leksički i sintaksički zahtevan, svet dela je itekako kompleksan i ne bih se usudila da ga nazovem 'minimalističkim delom' ni u kom smislu.Raduju me utisci drugih čitalaca i potražiću ovih dana prikaze jer me baš zanima kakva su rešenja ponudili.
Videorecensione: https://youtu.be/czsfgLPdpY4
A to zavisi od samog karaktera i prijemčivosti za ovakve knjige.Za mene je ovo jedna od onih knjiga o kojima zapravo i ne želim mnogo da razgovaram,želim samo da iznova i iznova proživljavam utisak koji je na mene ostavila.Postoji mali broj stvari koje mene, kao inače prilično neurotičan karakter, smiruju.
Meni je priča predivna.Mnogo neizgovorenih reči i tajni, prožetih snagom detinje uobrazilje koje gradi neraskidivu vezu između dve devojčice koje se zapravo i ne poznaju niti imaju razloga da pate jedna za drugom, ali osećaju posebnu sponu koja usled događaja koji slede nikada i neće biti uništena ili obezvređena odrastanjem, svim onim iskustvima koje bi humanizovale taj odnos i svele ga na ono što nazivamo normalnim prijateljstvom.
Like them, I thoroughly enjoyed this novel, though perhaps I was unduly influenced by having read Vessas' "The Bridges" a few weeks earlier.
"The Ice Palace" in particular bravely resists explaining the urgent message that Unn has to convey and the exact nature of the attraction between her and Siss.
There's an oneiric power to the prose that's gripping throughout, particularly anytime we get close to the ice palace itself.
I found "The Bridges" to be slightly bolder in its perspective shifts and more haunting in its aftermath, but both novels deserve far more readers - like you!
I'm looking forward to checking out more of Vessas's work shortly.
In a rural village eleven-year-old classmates, Siss and Unn, who have not been close, spend an emotionally charged evening together, forming a fierce and indelible bond.
The rest of the book, the last two of three parts, relates Siss’s coming to terms with the tragedy and, in so doing, moving into maturity.Vesaas’ writing is crystalline, as simple, spare, and brittle as his haunting descriptions of the Norwegian winter with its darkness, biting cold, wind, ice, and snow.
His simple and often repetitive sentences perfectly fit the starkness of the landscape and narrative as well as the fixed determination of the characters.
This is the novel that will make you want to learn Norwegian.....A short poetic volume that is part schoolyard romance, part winter wonderland, The Ice Palace explores the intense bonds of friendship that form at the brink of adolescence--and the pain when such bonds are severed in their infancy.
Vesaas's simple yet lyrical prose captures perfectly the world of eleven-year-old Siss and adds a poignant urgency to her hopes.
At once both familiar and inscrutable, this is a truly original work -- one impossible to replicate or demystify.
"Çok basit bir öyküyü, çok basit kelimelerle nasıl bir şiire dönüştürürüz?" sorusuna verilmiş güzel bir kitap. Örnek bir alıntı vermek gerekirse;“Bir giz var burada. İçlerindeki bütün kederi açığa vuruyor ve onu, ışığın bu geceyarısı oyununa ve ölüm kuşkusuna bırakıyorlar. Ve onlar büyülenmekle oyalanıyorlar. Buzun ıssız köşeleri arasında dağılmış durumdalar, fenerlerden çapraz ışıklar parlıyor, bunlar başka yarıklardan ve prizmalardan yansıyan ışıklarla karşılaşıyor, tümden yeni yeni ışınlar parlıyor ve gene çarçabuk silinip gidiyorlardı bütün bütün. Onu o kadar iyi tanıyorlar ki, titriyorlar. Tehlikeli o, fakat yapmak istiyorlar, ona katılmak zorundalar. Eğer bir kapı varsa, sadece öyle göründüğünden bu.”
Meanwhile she walked, strangely exalted, half unconscious.She was close to the edge now: the ice laid its hand upon her.The Ice Palace came to my attention highly garlanded with praise.Peter Owen Publishing has one of the most impressive lists of any UK publisher, for example the wonderfully Sebaldesque Panorama : pripoved o poteku dogodkov by Dušan Šarotar from their World Series.
But the next morning, fearing what might happen, Unn decides to defer the encounter and instead of going to school, heads to see the Ice Palace instead:There had been an unusually long period of severe frost this autumn ...
