https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25489025-the-vegetarian
I’ve lost friends over it, and experienced much social awkwardness just for my lifestyle choice.
The vegetarian in here acts as a metaphor for individual life choices.
For “the vegetarian,” being different to the world leads to social isolation and feelings of utter despair.
It’s also about sexual desire, the unwavering power of lust and sheer emotional enthralment.
It is the ability to make one’s own life choice and live in harmony with the rest of the world.
What matters is choice.
The vegetarian in here serves as a metaphor, a rallying cry, for a more accepting world.
yeah .
soI guess that was good .
. .Kinda weird .
I think .
. .Definitely a bit much .
oh, no doubt .
. .Poignant perhaps .
certainly heart strings were tugged .
Confusion!
Yes!
or, maybe not .
or, maybe not .
. .100% sure I was 90% moved by being 80% lost while at the same time being 70% disturbed .
. .This book .
yup .
sure, I guess?
Update: Han Kang's book, "The Vegetarian", is the Man Booker international winner Wow...********ZERO spoilers I'm going to share my experience....and hope to find other readers to discuss this book with later.
I couldn't 'not' read this in anything less than one sitting.If I keep thinking about this book, not only will I have a knot in my stomach as I do now...but I just might find myself crying my eyes out!I haven't felt so many intense emotions from a book in a long time.Zillions of thoughts flooded my mind from when our daughter was anorexic.
And before Yeong-hye had broken those bars, she’d never even known they were there…”	Wow, what can I say about this one except “wow?”The Vegetarian by Han Kang was everything that we love about Korean and Japanese literature and art—and that’s exactly what this work was: art.
Here you will find what we have come to know, to love and to expect from authors in this genre who write in this vein: the vibrancy, the subtle magical realism, the commanding usage of words and the elusive, sinister nature that is unique to these works—all embedded within an established culture of history and mores that has survived and developed for millennia longer than most others.
From the dust jacket AND the product description here on Goodreads:"A disturbing, yet beautifully composed narrative told in three parts, The Vegetarian is an allegorical novel about modern day South Korea..."Come on, guys.
As stated in my review, the author herself has said the book is an allegory for present-day South Korea.
The second part switches to third-person past tense, and while still an interesting part of the story, caused the narrative to come to a grinding halt while we have to get to know a whole other person only to relive entire sections of the first sixty pages.
In fact, it reads like a novella, so it's easy to consume and fast paced enough that about the time you feel really into it, it's over.
Despite being a story that is explicitly about Yeong-hye, it is actually never told directly from her perspective.
Some take place at the time of Yeong-hye's decision to become a vegetarian, and others take place years after the fact.To be totally honest, this book is weird.
I have been told that those who have been deeply affected by the decision to become a vegetarian have loved this story.
I just feel like there are so many layers here, so many things that need to be discussed, so many unique interpretations, so many questions.
You know how in a lot of foreign films there aren't millions of dollars invested into CGI and fhe actors and actresses look like real people?
At the end, you feel something inside and you're thinking, man, I didn't know movies could be like this.
That's how The Vegetarian is- translated into English from a South Korean author that doesn't look or feel like any book you've read before.
I haven't read anything like this before.
This is the story of two sisters & their husbands & one woman's tendency toward violent, graphic dreams.
The men in this book are repulsive & selfish, and I could not identify with either sister.
Maybe all the weird, sexually graphic imagery was a parallel for the mass produced & detached quality of the porn industry?
Maybe my lack of experience with the culture prevents me from understanding the higher meaning here?Truly, I don't know.Regardless of the intended message, or what others seem to have taken from this novel, reading this was frustrating.
I gave myself 24 hours to think over this before rating it, but I still don't know...
This is a book about characters whose backstories and full character arcs aren't really explored, so it was jarring to read a character-heavy book whose main focus is on a woman that we never even see the perspective of.
Maybe i'm missing something, and i'm horrified that I did because everyone else loves this book, but this just read very strangely to me.
If anyone felt the same way I did, what did you think was missing?
I'm just not quite sure how to put into words what about this felt not amazing
The Vegetarian by Han Kang is a South Korean novel told in three parts.
As of summer 2013, Han teaches creative writing at the Seoul Institute of the Arts while writing stories and novels.The Vegetarian starts with a simple premise.
A woman, Yeong-hye, decides to become a vegetarian and her family reacts to her decision.
Each section reflects a movement into the future and a different look at Yeong-hye.
Yeong-hye role is the pivot point for the story although she tells very little of her own story.
We have to rely on those around her to tell the story and wade through their personal issues, prejudices, and obsessions.

And to me, in my opinion, I think Yeong-hye might not have slipped into this world as far as she did if she had support from her family.
I wish we could have heard Yeong-hye's thoughts, there were snippets here and there, but this story is told through her husband's eyes, her brother-in-law's eyes and one of her sisters eyes.
Even still, I'm not sure that Yeong-hye would have went to the extremes she did if her sister didn't walk in on them and have them both carted off to the mental ward because of her jealousy.
She's turned vegetarian... what a ridiculous b!+ch!Riveting adult fiction. What do I mean by "adult"? In middle school you would not have understood it; in high school you would have hated it. But adults acting as children, having crises in front of their community at high noon? Yeah. I've been indoctrinated. Han Kang has a taut, very animalistic tale of madness and marriage to share with us. Let's eat!
A partner told me that he could not go on holiday with his family for the last 2-3 years because his child in high-school had to study for university, for an exam which will be only in another year.
She didn't understand why, but faced with those decaying buildings and straggling grasses, she was nothing but a child who had never lived.”***What a better moment to read this than in Seoul while eating lots of Korean meat.
But a series of disturbing, echoing nightmares keep her stoic in her resolve, leaving only her sister and brother-in-law in the big, unforgiving world to extend their support, albeit not without curious pokes and starkly different motives.What follows underline the haunting journey of a woman transformed, repealing everything conventional to assign meaning to her inner voice.
Experiencing erotic exploitation and befriending helpless eyes, discarding worldly echoes and embracing floristic world, Yeong-hye moves from a home to a studio to a hospital with incredible equanimity and singular passion (view spoiler)[to become a plant (hide spoiler)].Intermingling three points of view in three different, well-etched parts with the eye of a shrewd player, Kang raises questions on human dichotomies and their constant collision against the inherent shackles of society.
THE VEGETARIAN owes everything to Kafka and the idea of metamorphosis in life and in death.
The novel won the 2016 Man Booker International Prize and it is meant to be split between the author (Han Kang) and the translator (Deborah Smith).
When a novel like this one reads more like poetry, you can understand how translation is of absolute importance.
I googled some info about the translation of this novel and, oh my gosh!
According to some Korean American lit critics, Smith took way too many liberties with the translation and the result is a completely different book than the South Koreans read.
In a complete metamorphosis of both mind and body, her now dangerous endeavor will take Yeong-hye—impossibly, ecstatically, tragically—far from her once-known self altogether.The Vegetarian is told through three parts:From here on this review will contain *spoilers*.Part One: Told through the eyes of the very abusive and unsupportive husband of Yeong-hye (aka Mr. Cheong).People who utter bullshit like he did truly astonish me:“What’s wrong with your lips?
I mean, just listening to the voice of his sister-in-law managed to arouse him… why???On top of that, trigger warnings for sexual assault because Yeong-hye’s husband is a piece of shit.Right in those moments, thinking about Mr. Cheong didn’t cause me shock or confusion so much as an intense feeling of disgust.
The novel is simply told, and very short, but it touches on so many critical, cut-to-the-bone themes, including the most fundamental questions of identity, of gender, of responsibility toward others, and of what makes life worth living.
In this novel the more outwardly stable and successful a character is, the less likely they are to have any perspective on their life choices.
The story forces characters, and by extension readers, to think deeply about what "self" is, whether it be defined most simply as an organic body with organic desires and needs of its own, or as part of a social structure, where one's value and even one's sanity is defined by others.
Han Kang, Kore Edebiyatı dediğimiz zaman, çok yeni olmasına rağmen; saygıyla ve övgüyle anılan, yazılan bir isim.
O yüzden Man Booker ödülü almadan önce de Türkçe'ye bir an önce çevrilmesini bekliyordum, hatta Human Acts'ı İngilizcesinden okuma girişimim de olmuştu.
Neyse, Han Kang kesinlikle bu çabasında çok başarılı olmuş.
Gayet sade bir dille, hatta kaba diyebileceğim bir biçimle ilerleyerek; uzaktan bakıldığında nokta, yakından bakıldığında dünya, bir kitap ortaya çıkarmış.Kang, tek bir çizgisel öykü üzerinde, üç ayrı karaktere ayrı bölümler vererek, bize bambaşka açılardan aynı dünyanın içine girme fırsatı veriyor.
Han Kang'ın farkının bu noktada ortaya çıktığını düşünüyorum.
Haliyle kitap bu özelliğiyle daha önce tanık olduğum bir şeyi yeniden tecrübe ettirdi.
Expect nothing when you read this book.
Our troubled protagonist who becomes vegetarian to the incredibly strong distress of all her family felt like a piece of thin glass ready to break at any moment.
I loved her, I knew her but then I didn't.With erotic and unusual sexual moments the book does make you feel uncomfortable at times.
Some scenes made me want to dive into the book and act out.I'll never forget this book and am eager to read everything and anything this astonishing author writes.
I can't praise this book enough.I'm stunned at low reviews.
What book were they reading?
Read it.
I expected a "weird" novel, but somehow, the characters and what they were doing seemed to make sense.
It's interesting that the main character of the novel doesn't have a POV (other than a few dream-moments), but then, this novel is also about hidden emotions and buried pain, so it makes sense that only through understanding the characters around Yeong-hye can we--and they--hope to understand her.(view spoiler)[ Reading In-hye's realization of her younger sister Yeong-hye's true relationship to their home and imagining poor little Yeong-hye suffering abuse, as well as the immense guilt In-hye feels for not protecting her little sister...
فكما يحتاج الجسد الى الغذاء النفس تحتاج الى غذاء للروح.وبسبب الاحتياج الى هذا الغذاء الروحي والذي لا تستطيع ان تعبر عنه الى المقربين منك فلا يستطيعون تفهم ما تريده من هذه الحياة.الرواية معبرة جدا عن عصرنا الذي نعيش فيه ولا نجد فيه راحتنا النفسية والصبر على حياة غير سعيدة فقط من اجل العادة .لقد كان تحولها الى نباتية في البداية حدثا عظيما وقامت العائلة بجميع المحاولات لمنعها من ذلك رغم وجود المثير من النباتيين في العالم يعيشون بصحة جيدة.
حتى تخلى عنها الجميع باستثناء اختها التي توصلت من خلال اختها الصعرى الى انها تعيش حياة تعيسة.جميلة
But she is the central character, the fulcrum for her husband, brother-in-law, and sister, each of whom narrate a section of the book.In one pivotal (and awful) scene early on, her abusive father hits her and forces a piece of meat into Yeong-hye's mouth.
She wrenches free from her husband brother-in-law holding her down and slashes her wrist, which lands her in the mental hospital for the first time.
Yeong-hye descends into mental illness, slowly starving in an effort to become plantlike, to leave the violence of the world, or her own mind.
Han Kang does a great job portraying how women suffer from the male gaze, patriarchal standards that make them adhere to men, and abuse brought on by the forced consumption of meat and the men who partake in said consumption.
As a future psychologist passionate about eating disorders, though, I abhorred how Kang portrayed Yeong-hye's descent into anorexia.
I would not want anyone to model their actions after Yeong-hye, and I wish Kang had driven home that point more.Overall, a good depiction of a woman who suffers because of the violence men inflict upon her.
"She had never lived.
Even as a child, as far back as she could remember, she had done nothing but endure."-- Han Kang, The VegetarianA short novel made up of three interrelated stories of three related family members (a sister/vegetarian, her sister/responsible one, her sister's husband/artist).
The stories revolve around dreams, food, existence, art and nature.
The book did give hints of an erotic Kafka's A Hunger Artist.
No, not erotic, not really, just modern and sensual and transformative.
The tension around food, art, family, and sex were developed well, but still there just seemed something missing.
"She was no longer able to cope with all that her sister reminded her of. She’d been unable to forgive her for soaring alone over a boundary she herself could never bring herself to cross, unable to forgive that magnificent irresponsibility that had enabled Yeong-hye to shuck off social constraints and leave her behind, still a prisoner.” It came as no surprise to me that Kang was first a poet and then a novelist. This was a robust, sensual novel about a woman’s descent into madness told from
"She was no longer able to cope with all that her sister reminded her of.
She’d been unable to forgive her for soaring alone over a boundary she herself could never bring herself to cross, unable to forgive that magnificent irresponsibility that had enabled Yeong-hye to shuck off social constraints and leave her behind, still a prisoner.”
This was a robust, sensual novel about a woman’s descent into madness told from the perspectives of her sister, husband and brother-in-law.What begins as a conscientious objection to eating meat evolves into a conflicted debate in a country (South Korea) where such a renunciation is not common.
A very unique take on social issues, conformity and mental illness.
3.5This book is a depressing yet beautiful account of mental illness and societies perception of it. It is very dark and left me feeling unsettled at times.
Review originally published at Learn This Phrase.Translated from Korean, this is the kind of story that's hard to define; a sort of character study, I suppose, of the titular vegetarian (though the diet she chooses to follow is actually vegan), the inscrutable Yeong-hye.
The book is made up of three 'acts', each observing Yeong-hye from the point of view of a different person - her husband, her brother-in-law, and her sister.
At points this narrative has a feverish sexual charge, but at the same time it shows Yeong-hye rejecting any such objectification - in J's words, she has 'a body from which all desire had been eliminated', yet he is unable to stop desiring her, and that desire is expressed in two inextricable ways, sexual and artistic.
Apparently Korea is obsessed with guilt in a country where men are assholes.Yeong-hye is described by her husband in the opening lines as “completely unremarkable in every way” then goes on to eschew meat of all kind.
I felt her refusal to eat meat was actually a feminist reaction to the patriarchal Korean culture that still seems mired in the sexist idea that a women's place is in the kitchen.
So maybe I’m just Psych 101’ing the whole thing but the painting is about the objectification of women that has been internalized culturally.
The book is entirely concerned with one person, Yeong-hye, and yet we hear little in her actual perspective.
We believe we know her three times over from the three altering perspectives we receive about her person, from those closest to her.
I felt like I shared so much with Yeong-hye, despite never having felt close to knowing her at all.This book is short and yet is full of intricacies and complexities that said so much by saying so little.
This is an intensely emotional, evocative and deeply moving story that will remain in my mind for a long time to come and is already begging to be reread.
