https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38212843-every-breath
There are stories that rise from mysterious, unknown places, and others that are discovered, a gift from someone else. Found near a sandy dune, on an actual stretch of North Carolina beach, sits a community mailbox—owned by no one and everyone. A character in its own right, Kindred Spirit rests atop a driftwood post, waiting to share the hopes and dreams entrusted by past visitors, along with this resounding message: love endures. Letters and photocopied drawings available for perusal during th
Ultimately, it was their journey that provided the inspiration for this story-within-a-story and the author’s mighty return to his roots—the telling of a love so intense, it’s felt with the reader’s every breath and turn of the page.
Once that declaration of love is released into the fictional universe, it’s game on as the full force, feel it in your bones, your heart wants to explode from all of the giddiness feelings takes over.
Kudos to Sparks for trying something different with his previous two releases, but neither worked well for this love obsessed heart of mine.
Once I got about half way through I was leary with the direction the book was taking, but by the end it came together nicely.Hope is in a relationship that she isn't exactly content with.
During that week, Hope meets Tru who is on a temporary visit  from Africa to meet his father for the first time.
With that said, the romance in this book felt like insta-love and went way to quick for me.
Don't get me wrong, it's not that I don't think two people can have a quick connection like Tru and Hope did, it's just that for me it felt rushed and I wanted more development to their relationship.
For those that enjoy a timeless, classic, romantic love story....check this one out.
This book has all the makings of a love story to remember from the characters’ strength, resilience, and loyalty to the moments that squeeze your heart with heartbreak for situations that no one should have to go through.
Whether it be for making that difficult decision that alters a life’s path or dealing with the grief of loss that only comes from living (and loving).For those that are a fan of Nicholas Sparks novels, you will not be disappointed with this one.
MY REVIEW:  can also be found on my blog:   ➽ KITTY KATS CRAZY ABOUT BOOKS In the romantic tradition of The Notebook and Nights in Rodanthe Nicholas Sparks brings us EVERY BREATH  which Is a full length, stand alone romance novel.Like previous novels by this author he has such an uncanny knack of weaving a magic spell over his readers Every Breath is no different, unique in every way, it drew me in as soon as I started reading it. In this we’re introduced to forty two year old Tru, an uncon
Divorced with one child.Out of the blue a letter arrives for him, inside are two plane tickets, a later accompanied with an old photograph written and sent by his biological father whom he has never met.
Almost at once something inside him began to stir, something that made him feel a bit nervous, the way he always felt in the presence of a beautiful woman.
Thirty six year old Hope is packing up her parents cottage which had just recently sold and is preparing attending her friends wedding without her long term boyfriend by her side, she works as a trauma nurse in the ER and at this stage was unmarried and without children.
4.5 Stars ⭐️
She wanted to believe that they could also be doorways to a new and different kind of future.I knew that a happy ending isn't guaranteed, and while that's preferable, if the message in the story at least leaves me introspective and moved then I'm satisfied.
I didn't come away from the book feeling happy with the events that took place, in fact, I was frustrated and left wanting more.
As much as she doesn't want to believe she's wasting her time with him, she can't help but feel like marriage and a family may never be in the cards.
I think this quote perfectly summarises what you can expect when you pick up Every Breath.The latest novel from Nicholas Sparks begins with Tru, a guide from Zimbabwe, who is called the US on a relatively short trip to connect with his biological father and learn more about his mother before his father passes away.
I can’t think of another male author that is able to capture to heart, feelings and emotions that Nicholas Sparks seems to so easily convey through the pages of his novel.So this time around, Every Breath introduces two protagonists who have their own troubles and colourful back stories.
The love that surrounds Tru and Hope is one that is separated by time, life choices, ill-fated decisions and reconnection.
Both Hope and Tru face some tough choices.I picked this book up because it was written by Nicholas Sparks and I have read and enjoyed most of his books.
This is vintage Sparks where people fall in love quickly and deeply.
For those of us happy enough to accept this, it begins a love story that has more than its share of heartache.
But all in all, this is what Sparks is best known for - a love story.
It is also a story of family love as well, of choices and consequences.
I struggled with Hope and her choice at one stage.
Eeep - finally another Nicholas Sparks book!I just love his stories.
A WALK TO REMEMBER was the book that started my reading addiction back in 2002 or somewhere around that time.Every Breath is really heartbreaking and sad and moving and hopeless but also full of hope and love and family and loss and ...
Full of all those beautiful and heartbreaking things a Nicholas Sparks book needs.☺We start with 42 year old Zimbabwe tour guide Tru. He's the grandson of one of the countries' richest men.
But the reader has an amazing (aka heartbreaking aka crying rivers of tears) time reading about their journey to a hopefully happy end.
What a beautiful story. It just shows you how small the world can be at times. Once I started reading it, I didn’t stop. A quick one sitting read. One thing I thoroughly enjoyed about this one was Nicholas Sparks’ personal words within the book. It really indicated how moved he was by the true story that inspired him in writing this book. It was lovely. There’s really no other way to put it. My quick and simple overall: devastatingly beautiful ok so many fronts.
🔹The destiny that matters most in anyone’s life is the one concerning love.🔸- Nicholas Sparks“Demasiadas pessoas passavam as suas vidas a desempenhar um papel que pensavam que deviam desempenhar, em vez de serem simplesmente quem eram.”*“Too many people spent their lives performing a role they thought they were supposed to play, as opposed to simply being who they were.”- Hope Anderson* * *“Gostaria que as coisas tivessem sido diferentes para nós, mas parece que o destino fez outros planos.
Porque conhecer-te, e amar-te, mesmo por pouco tempo, deu um significado diferente à minha vida, e sei que será sempre assim.”*“I wish that things could have been different for us, but fate seems to have had other plans.
Aún me cuesta entender por qué me gustó tanto este libro, pero es que los amores imposibles para mi son mi placer culpable y el autor ha escrito un romance que me caló hasta los huesos. Debe ser por que no es una novela juvenil y siento que la historia tiene mucho peso, pero tanto Tru como Hope se van a quedar un buen tiempo en mi mente y en mi corazón!Reseña completa: https://megarybookss.blogspot.com/201...
I really wanted to give this 5 stars before I read it, because I love Nic Spark books. However, this one had just a little too much unbelievable sap for me. Too far fetched. I disliked the 20year fast forward as well. I’m both disappointed and pleased. I liked it in spots and I disliked it 🤷🏽♀
I really wanted to give this 5 stars before I read it, because I love Nic Spark books. However, this one had just a little too much unbelievable sap for me. Too far fetched. I disliked the 20year fast forward as well. I’m both disappointed and pleased. I liked it in spots and I disliked it 🤷🏽‍♀️
“The destiny that matters most in anyone’s life is the one concerning love.”  Every Breath is a tear jerker. You have been warned!For the longest time, I resisted reading Nicholas Sparks novels. I had seen the movies like A Walk to Remember, Message in a Bottle, Dear John and The Notebook. So I knew his main characters either didn't stay together or one of them died. As a true romantic, this really hurt my heart. Then, I read The Longest Ride, See Me, and Two by Two and I became a fan of his s
Then, I read The Longest Ride, See Me, and Two by Two and I became a fan of his storytelling.Every Breath took me on a journey full of destiny, hope, heartbreak and true love.Tru Walls is going to America for the first time.
Her boyfriend of six years, an orthopedic surgeon is currently in Las Vegas.
Hope decides to go to his family beach home in Sunset Beach for the last time.
Hope will show Tru the magic of a place called the Kindred Spirit, and it will connect them forever.
After reading, Every Breath, I'm dying to go to Sunset Beach and Kindred Spirit.
Nicholas Sparks, you never cease to amaze me. With your words you create worlds and stories I could never even imagine, and in a few pages you make us read about the love of a lifetime. And “Every Breath” is just another example of how great and unique your writing skills are. Thank you, thank you, thank you, for making me believe and fall in love with love itself at every turning page.
2.5 starsEvery Breath is the first Nicholas Sparks book I have read.
It is not entirely improbable, but to me it felt more like two strangers forming a wonderful bond of friendship rather than starting a romance.
Any sparks are tepid at best, and the declarations of love come out of left field.
On the positive side, Sparks does a fantastic job describing the charming North Carolina beach town where the bulk of the story takes place.
The writing is on the sappy side, and while this should be a moving tale, I failed to connect with the story or the main characters on a meaningful level.
I have always admired his novels and credited him for being such a force in the Romance genre, as a male author I think it is so unique!!
With that being said, I think this book was very true to Nicholas Sparks.
I think it will appeal to the Sparks’ fans and anyone who enjoys the mainstream romance genre.
I found the Author’s note in the beginning, that told the back story to how he created this novel, to be VERY COOL!!!( that part narrated by Sparks on the audio) And I really did love the characters in this book.
“It’s because of you, after all, that I now believe in miracles. With us, I want to believe that anything will always be possible.”  I remember the first Nicholas Sparks novel I ever read. I was in 6th grade (2003) and I picked up A Walk to Remember at Walmart. It was the movie tie in cover, with Mandy Moore and Shane West holding hands— which I still have to this day. I read the whole book that night and begged my mom to buy me the movie, and thankfully, she did. I think I watched that movie
I remember the first Nicholas Sparks novel I ever read.
I think I watched that movie every day for the whole year.After reading A Walk to Remember I caught up on the author’s backlist and would read every single new release the day it came out.
I almost lost hope in finding another timeless novel by Nicholas Sparks until I picked up Every Breath.Every Breath reaffirmed my love for Sparks’ novels and proved why his stories will always hold a special place in my heart.
One thing that was particularly interesting to me was how Sparks got his inspiration to write this story.
Interesting enough to keep me reading but I never connected with the characters.
Normally that doesn’t bother me but when even the conversations between characters seem forced and awkward, nothing hits home for me.
First of all, I saw it coming and secondly, I just didn’t care enough for the characters to feel anything.
Overall, I’m just left feeling disappointed.Was it worth reading?
Yes, because I've read every other book by Nicholas Sparks and feel compelled to keep reading them.
No, because it was close to being garbage.Would I read it again?
Get your shit together.My main annoyance with this one was the woman basically stayed with her shitty boyfriend instead of the hot African dude solely because she wanted children and Mr. Africa was sterile.
So she gets her kids which end up barely getting mentioned because she's pining for Safari Sir for YEARS even though they had ONE NIGHT TOGETHER after knowing each other for TWENTY-FOUR HOURS because ERMERGERD LERVE.Second main annoyance was, and I quote, "comfortable strappy heels".
Has the author worn strappy heels and found them comfortable?
THEY AREN'T COMFORTABLE, NICK.
Romance novels aren’t really my genre but I’ve heard a lot of good things about Nicholas Sparks and thought it was time to try and read a novel by him.
That’s not the only reason I picked this book, but also because the story seemed really nice and it seemed like something I would enjoy reading.
What I liked most about this novel is that it’s a true story and it’s just such a cute little romance novel with an equal amount of sad moments involved.
Whenever I read a Nicholas Sparks book, it is ALWAYS a 4-5 star book for me so I was excited when my library got this in so fast and I was first on the wait list!! This book is fabulous!! A beautiful love story !! 5 stars!!!
In typical Nicholas Sparks fashion this love story is almost unbearably sappy but shines in that it’s based loosely on a real couple spanning decades. If you need a good cry or are in the mood to believe in true love pick this one up!
Classic NS. This is written in a very unique way. I don’t want to say too much and ruin the storyline for anyone but I enjoyed the not so happily ever after ending that was happily ever after. This also reminded me a bit of Bridges of Madison County (one of my faves).
Que saudades de ler um livro do autor! Um livro maravilhoso, lindo e com uma história tão bem escrita! Adorei a introdução para o leitor entender o enquadramento da história! Gostei tanto da caixa de correio "Alma gémea",saber que há pessoas que escrevem cartas tão bonitas! Não vou desvendar mais nada sobre o livro... leiam, pois vale bem a pena!
My least favorite Nicholas Sparks book for sure.
The story begins with what you believe is Nicholas Sparks finding a letter at Kindred Spirits in North Carolina.
He feels like he must find this person to talk to first get their full story then to them about possibly writing a book on this story.
I felt like the book was incredibly rushed and didn't connect to either of the characters.
The book was 2 stars until you find out in the epilogue that the entire story was made up.
Nicholas Sparks never found a letter and searched for the author.
The destiny that matters most in anyone’s life Is the one concerning love...
I was once again transported into this beautiful place you created with your magical words and imagined being inside this story right along with the characters.
I smiled, I laughed, I ugly cried and just loved the feels this book gave me.
Hail to the King of Romance you have once again blessed us readers with a beautiful, well thought out, love story!
Tasteful stories of TRUE heart felt love without all the Smut are so hard to find these days!!
*2 stelle e mezzo*Non so, leggo Sparks da anni ma a questo libro manca decisamente qualcosa!Bello l'espediente di Kindred Spirit: una cassetta delle lettere solitaria, poggiata sulla spiaggia per raccoglie i desideri e rimorsi di chiunque abbia voglia di lasciare un pezzo della sua storia all'oceano e a chi passerà di lì... Interessante lo scorcio d'Africa che viene proposto, sebbene in maniera frettolosa. Però la trama di per sé non ha nulla di speciale, una bella storia ma non memorabile.
Á muitos anos que não lia Sparks, porque sabemos sempre que vamos ficar de lágrima no olho... as críticas a este livro têm sido tão boas que arrisquei! E fiz muito bem !Adorei Adorei a introdução do livro e saber que é baseado numa história verdadeira. Adoro a forma como Sparks nos leva da selva do Zimbábue até á praia de Sunset Beach e parece mesmo que lá estamos sem que se alongue em demasiadas descrições. Adorei esta história de amor.. e sim o amor nem sempre é fácil
Sparks jest dla mnie fenomenem. Nie mogę się nadziwić, że takimi książkami zdobył tak wielką popularność wśród czytelników. Jego opisy miały chyba być piękne i patetyczne, a za każdym razem wychodzą tak banalnie, że oczy bolą podczas czytania. Dialogi? Nie znam ludzi, którzy tak ze sobą rozmawiają. Zresztą dialogów jest stosunkowo niewiele w porównaniu do rozdmuchanych opisów, które wypełniają znaczną część jego książek. Dla mnie to pisarz, który tworzy historie - wydmuszki, a dopiero reżyser i scenarzysta potrafi wydobyć z nich jakąś głębię. Bo przyznaję, że ekranizacje jego książek bardzo lubię.
