https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51877.Capitalism_and_Freedom
This book is an interesting case of modern day sophistry – where the worse argument is made to appear the better.
One of my favourite examples was towards the end where he discusses the effect of government subsidies in the US on cotton growers overseas – I won’t go into the details of the argument, it is even one of the few I would tend to agree with him on, but he says, “The list of similar cases could be multiplied.” Well, yes, obviously – given that he gave but one example they could hardly be divided.Here is yet another commentator who presents himself as a scientist and his social theories as self-evident truths, rather than the ideological sophistry they really are.
Live and (hopefully) Learn...Before reading this book, I thought I was a fairly strong proponent of both free markets and limited government. TURNS OUT...I WAS WRONG!! Uncle Milt believed down to his very core in the rightness of free markets and after reading his passionate treatise on the benefits of same, I find I am not quite as far along the boulevard of laissez faire as I originally thought. Despite being under 250 pages, this is a dense, meaty work designed to summarize the arguments in
I didn’t agree with everything that Friedman said and can’t ride along with him completely, but I thought he made his case very well and that his arguments were founded on principles of rightness and justice and so provide excellent food for thought.Chapter 8: Monopoly and the Social Responsibility of Business and Labor This is a very dry chapter on the evils of both monopolies and coercive trade unions and that the proper role of government should be to prevent both as they impinge upon the freedom of citizens.
Friedman has constructed an airtight bubble of neoliberal thought where freedom is the greatest value, and everything makes sense and fits together rationally only because it has no connection whatsoever to any kind of historical context, much less the current social and political realities of our time.
But now I begin to see why we need a large pool of really poor people.
To be fair, I did expect the unions are evil bit.
But the imaginary debating partner cannot help but wonder if staking a claim to the moral high ground in an argument is not exactly the most liberal way of conducting one.
Now, having agreed with that, the imaginary debating partner would begin to feel slightly discomfited as Friedman begins to assert that given everything else his school has the right to define how this 'freedom' of expression should be exercised and defined.
This second definition feels discomfiting because the imaginary debater cannot quite get how Friedman can claim the authority to dictate that the natural tendency of all democracies towards being welfare states is not really in keeping with the best interests of people.
But I recognize that the market is a powerful force for innovation, for growth and change.
I am willing to recognize that at times, the market can be too constrictive, and that there are times where we must carefully examine the situation and determine which policies are best.
He even goes so far as to suggest the removal of medical licensing to alleviate a doctor shortage, and let the market act, leaving bodies in its wake.Speaking of bodies, the name of Milton Friedman is still widely reviled in Latin America, most notably due to his advice to the Pinochet dictatorship in Chile, which adopted many of his policies as a national experiment.
For Friedman, freedom is negative liberty, the liberty not to be interfered with, and he takes his starting point of analysis to be the individual (which rarely holds since he'll quickly talk about net economic effects that are never started by an individual, nor realized by them either).
Individuals that do not own means of production are not free to enter or not into particular exchange, for if they do not enter the exchange (of selling their labor power), they will starve to death.
And anyone who doesn’t know my views is going to read this review and think it sucks because Friedman showed that socialism and freedom do not go together.
This book is so full of ruling class whitewash that it is truly difficult to read.The text, essentialized, was as follows: Capitalism offers rich people choices.
These choices can be redefined as freedom.
Therefore Capitalism offers freedom.Left out is what to do if you don't have the luxury of being able to buy choices.
Left out is how these choices in fact necessitate others' oppression and their lack of freedom.
Left out is any semblence of understanding of what it is to work for those choices to be available to some.Actually, let me rephrase: Friedman mentions these points specifically on several occaisions.
Fault lies totally with MF, who does not offer enough evidence to support his worldview, which is to limit government and expand free market in order to maximize 19th-century liberalism (where everyone is free such that one person's freedom doesn't impinge upon another's.) The lack of concrete evidence completely distressed me, especially for a book intended for a lay audience.
And a very weak ethical argument on the ethics of income inequality (basically Milton Friedman claims he can't think of a good one) replaces what should be an attempt at a strong converse to capitalism: that is, an attempt to show that any other economic system, both real and imagined, is worse than capitalism in some way.
His first chapter on how important economic freedom is is very good, but all of his arguments employ either strongman arguments that can't be reasonably argued against or straw man arguments that are too easy to knock down.
Not only that, but his chapter on how anti-discrimination laws in the workplace would be unnecessary if the free market were allowed to do its work is an appalling argument.
Thank God that most of these arguments are falling out of favor due to the current economic hardships and the incompetence of the current administration.
Ethically, there are a whole lot of restrictions on behavior which I advocate and try to practice.I do not share Friedman's sanguine attitude towards supposed rights of ownership.
Friedman seems to regard individual human organisms as the agents, not families or clans or nations, so it would seem to follow that inheritance should be heavily taxed.Beyond such political considerations, I have strong ethical objections to two things Friedman advocates: alienated ownership and labor.
By "alienated ownership" I mean the legal fictions which allow persons to own properties they don't use and products they don't produce.
Friedman is the essence of the Chicago school of conservative/libertarian economics, and some say his is the driving idea behind Reagan's supply side economics.Whatever you think about Reagan, Friedman is man of no small insight, both into economics and into politics.
So now we find ourselves in a period where speculators can fundamentally distort the functioning of the market according to supply and demand (just like the government can).Friedman also assumed that every individual was a rational actor, or at least acted like one.
We aren't making much progress.The idea I wish we would interject into our current situation: the end of corporate taxes and the progressive tax!
An important book to read for any student of economics - this is the basis of most American economic policy - but it's WRONG and I think Adam Smith would roll in his grave to hear how people like Friedman are using his theories to make their friends richer while the masses struggle.
Milton Friedman’s philosophy played a substantial role in creating the political environment that has allowed inequality to grow over the last four decades.Friedman’s philosophy has currency to this day not because he was so smart or so right but because his ideas are so useful to those in power – those who have wealth and those who benefit from supporting those who have wealth.My primary question as I read this book for the first time: Was Friedman explicit in his goal of helping the rich concentrate and consolidate more power and wealth for themselves?
On the other hand, he takes a look at how markets were able to successfully address things like discrimination, poverty, social welfare, etc.In reading this book, I came away with feeling that having a mixed economy, by that I mean a mix of capitalism and government intervention, lends itself to corrupting almost every forwarded initiative.
Curbing the effect of economic influence over political action, or somehow making bureaucrats incorruptible seems futile to me - though I laud the efforts of campaign finance reformers who have been able to diagnose one of the symptoms of a state not acting in our best interests.
Capitalism and Freedom examines the ultimate pursuit of freedom and liberty through the absence of government interference in the market and politics.
In a free society, there is a fine line between economic and political freedom.The role of government should be only limited to law and order, enforcing property rights, and maintaining the monetary system.
The tax structure must intake an extensive reform from a current graduated tax rate to a much more universal flat tax rate.Overall, the book is excellent in logical and rational statements of criticizing government intervention, and Friedman clearly explains the view of the libertarianism, and it is the people who are responsible of preserving freedom and liberty and stray away from tyranny and repression.
A man with an enomorous intellect and education, yet little regard for human beings. He had a vision of a lasseiz faire society that he was only able to see attempted in places like Chile, Argentina etc. Probably the most influential economist save Smith or Keynes. In my opinion a very unfortunate fact.
How Friedman's policies started Shock Doctrine Economics
Needless to say, Chomsky and Waterstone’s views collided with Friedman’s in almost every way.Friedman, who taught at the University of Chicago and won the Nobel Prize for Economics, was an idealist, an advocate for free-market purity.
Vestiges of it still remain in the Republican Party.In Friedman’s worldview, individuals engaging in voluntary free-market transactions check the powers of government, protecting our other freedoms--of speech, religion and thought.
At the behest of General Pinochet, Friedman’s acolytes, known as the Chicago Boys, got free rein to apply their free-market policies to Chile’s broken economy.
Good, very good, but not great. Several important errors. Read Ludwig von Mises by comparison.
And if it stops moving, subsidize it.") Hoje em dia, em Portugal, quando estamos superlativamente endividados, quando o Estado parece incapaz de equilibrar as suas contas apesar dos sucessivos aumentos de impostos, quando os casos de corrupção e má-gestão se sucedem nos noticiários sem que a Justiça consiga condenar os responsáveis, seria bom deixar as emoções de lado e ler as palavras de Friedman apenas pelo que valem, sem os estigmas dos rótulos que lhe queiram colar, para tentar compreender as ideias do académico inteligente, racional e coerente que ele foi.
Audiobook (7 hours) this for yourself before even considering what I think is the atrocious (half read) Atlas Shrugged or condemning Milton and the Chicago school.
Most Republicans are only cafeteria Friedmanists at best, which is a truly horrible mix.
I'd like to think that I've mentally progressed since I first read most of this formative work for a class sophomore year in college so it was nice to find that it held up so well.
That class was taught by my fav professor who would have then and ended up being an Obama voter when the time came.
In the forty or so years since Capitalism and Freedom first appeared, Friedman's thought has played a role in mainstream politics' drift in a direction far more congenial to his laissez faire beliefs than the New Deal Progressivism that still prevailed in the 1960s.Although many of the specific arguments in the book deserve criticism, the most appalling is the argument against anti-discrimination laws.
Because, for Friedman, individuals are free to do basically anything they want to do with the limited exception that they may not positively interfere with the freedom of other individuals, there is no justification for government to coerce bigots into associating with racial minorities and thus no justification for anti-discrimination in employment laws.
I'm here reminded of Bakunin's saying that "when the people are being beaten with a stick, they are not much happier if it is called 'the People's Stick.' " But since the form of "socialism" that was dominant in that time was state socialism, it's understandable why Friedman would focus exclusively on this.Note: I'm going to use private property in the Marxist/anarchist sense of the word to refer to the means of production and land in contrast to personal possessions such as a house or a toothbrush.
The introduction and classical liberal approach by Milton Friedman in relations between economic freedom and individual freedom has been a truly enlightening experience for me.
Estonians could be grateful for their economic development to Milton Friedman and his scholar Mart Laar, who later became the Prime Minister of Estonia and adopted Friedman's outlook on economic matters in his policies.
Today Estonia is one of the top ten most liberal economies in the world and is ahead of its Baltic's neighbors.
In this incredible book, Milton Friedman states, “A major source of objection to a free economy is precisely that it gives people what they want instead of what a particular group thinks they ought to want. Underlying most arguments against the free market is a lack of belief in freedom itself.” Capitalism and Freedom thoroughly changed my life
Political freedom and economic freedom go hand in hand; classical liberal (libertarian) discussion of the proper role of government.
Friedman outlines what would now be considered a consistently libertarian position: although he personally finds all sorts of discrimination based on race, gender, or religion particularly abhorrent, he doesn't think that it is the role of government to impose any sorts of measures that would amount to enforced "inclusiveness." He has a problem with the very notion of "discrimination." In many instances one man's discrimination is another man's right to exercise a taste preference.
Whatever it is, Friedman thinks that the best and most effective way of dealing with discrimination is again through allowing the existence of free market.
Friedman argues that this is yet another form of limitation of freedom that is imposed through the prevention of the existence of a free market.
Orgullosa porque pude "atacar" un libro que me intimidaba un poco (uno de no ficción, escrito por un ganador del premio Nobel de Economía que, aunque me apasiona mucho el tema, no soy experta y mi conocimiento se extiende a unas cuantas materias incluidas en mi licenciatura), y decepcionada por que me tomó demasiado tiempo acabarlo (casi 1 mes) cosa que retrasa un poco mis planes en cuanto al número de libros por leer este año.
Sin embargo, me sorprende lo lejos que Milton Friedman lleva sus creencias políticas al exponer en su libro ideas un tanto locas como la abolición de los programas sociales-en-contra-de-la-pobreza implementados por el gobierno (tales como el IMSS, INFONAVIT, INAPAM y CONSAR en México), las escuelas públicas, las licencias médicas, los impuestos progresivos y la Reserva Federal (lo equivalente al Banco de México).
That's how I'd sum up the good and the bad in Friedman.
Two, his monetary theory, likewise, was false, and that one was in the spotlight.
For the Austrian case on monetary theory - which I think is the correct one -, see, for example, What Has Government Done to Our Money?
The last error is that Friedman takes the "neighborhood effect" serious.
It's just another version of the public goods-problem and no more valid.
Another problem, but one that's less jarring, is that Friedman concedes that equality is a worthwhile goal.
In the 19th century, before laws were passed, workers labored seven days a week.
Herbert Hoover, a man who didn't think much about what government could do to help ordinary people, didn't enact Social security or bank regulation.
Today, because of the FDIC, legislation passed by FDR's administration, your money is protected if there is a run on the bank.Without government, people might make five cents an hour.
There is very little government in Somalia, just warlords.
I won't be going there any time soon.Without government, children would work ten hour days or longer.
Children in African countries work around the clock.
