https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/401730.Big_Red_Barn
Another book has migrated downstairs for my review.
Why?Big Red Barn, like Goodnight Moon, reads like a lullaby.
It is about impossible to not lull your voice when reading it.
And, also like Goodnight Moon, as the book winds down, the phrases become shorter until they just disappear and the story is over.
That's why an adult at a child's bedtime would like.
Why a toddler likes it, I don't know.
It could be the lullaby effect of the book.
I just know that my toddler likes it.Felicia Bond is very well-known for her illustrations in the "If You Give..." series, and rightfully so.
Big Red Barn is one of those baby books that provokes either charm or annoyance in adult readers, and delight in young listeners.
It is marked by Brown's soothingly rhythmic, repetitive text, sprinkled with farmyard animal noises that toddlers will love to imitate.
Other farm animals go about their activities throughout the day, and (just as in Goodnight Moon) the pictures become progressively darker as night falls on the barn.This classic board book is brightly illustrated, interactive and soothing.
It's a good fit for both preverbal toddlers and children who are just beginning to understand how story events progress in sequence.
"Big Red Barn" by Margaret Wise Brown was a really good book, and my daughter enjoyed it immensely.
As a parent, I take great joy when I see my daughter really enjoying what I read and recognizing the pictures that she sees on the page.
She was able to identify all the animals, and even wanted to know "Where they mama at?"The author did a really good job of displaying a lot of colors in this book too.
I think that really helps children as they are learning to read because all the bright colors catches their eye, and they want to know more.I give it 5 stars.
We got a themed box of books from the library about Farms and this was one of the books. Nothing out of the ordinary, except maybe the pretty illustrations. I loved the picture of the tiny pink pig. My preschoolers liked it and enjoyed the pictures, pointing out various things as I read, and so it was still worth reading. No real learning value except that it's a book. It might be considered a level 1 reading book, but it's debatable on whether or not it has enough words to warrant that.
totally, totally, a fave
If you can get past the racy scene with the Scarecrow and his "ho," this is a pretty solid story of some animals doing their thing on a farm. While there is no central hero for whom to root, the overall character development is pretty solid. I truly enjoyed counting all of the eggs. SPOILER ALERT: There are 10 in total.
This is a cute book about all the things that go on in a big red barn. There are horses, cows, dogs, mice, a little pig, and many other animals. It uses good descriptive words to explain each animal and what the animal is doing during the day. I would use this book to explain adjectives to a young elementary class. It has lots of great examples of good adjectives. I would also like to use it for its pictures, because there are many little images that you can look for that help describe the story better.
I read this years ago, recently rediscovered it while looking for farm books. It provides basic information about animal life in the barn throughout the day and into the night. During this look back, I noticed that Felicia Bond illustrated it. I probably didn't know who she was the first time I read it.
The rhyming nature of this story is enjoyable for students and it talks about the different things that animals do on the farm as well what noises the animals make. It would be a good book to read to kindergarteners when talking about the animals that live on the farm.
Core AAC:big littleI use picture books to help my nonverbal son learn to use his augmentative alternative communication (AAC) device to speak. This book has been great for us to practice the words listed above.
This is a very simple, straight forward story of barn animals on the farm. There are opportunities for animal sounds to make with the kids.I did not like the flow of this book however. It was awkward to read aloud and flip through. I suppose
Sweet little story, familiarizing kids with farm animals and where they live in a way. Enjoyed reading it.
This was the first book I read. Best book ever!
A cute introduction to barnyard animals for the little ones that enjoy colors and sounds.Ages 1-3
Lyrical account of all (my grandpa’s) animals gone off to lala land. Still enjoy the memories reading this to my children.
Nice rhyme, but not a lot of story.
This is my childhood jumping in Jay
A toddler and up book about the animals on the farm. Like that nightime is included.
Fun rhymes and bold pictures.
Young readers love this book!
bad bad bad bad bad
Not bad for an older book (copyright 1956). Lots of rhyming, good read-aloud. I like how the images show the how the day is going by, from morning to night -- the sky goes from sunny to dusk.
My favorite book as a child!
It was fine. I was never a fan of goodnight moon, and this is about the same. It's not terrible, but not something that I would choose again.
Nice simple story that encourages young readers while also helping expand their reading vocabulary. My husband's little sister gifted this book from her childhood collection to our younger daughter.
This book makes me feel all cuddly. my Auntie Lacey got it for me. I like the pretty pictures. Mommy likes the picture of the baby mouse in a field of corn best.
classic
This book, written in prose, teaches life on the farm for animals. A treasure for all young readers.
The story covers all the farm animals but the pictures aren't big enough to catch a baby's attention. I dunno if this is meant for toddlers.
I have never been a huge fan of this and other Margaret Wise Brown books But I have never had a kid who didn't ask for them again and again. The story (rhyme) seems just right for little ears even if my adult ears don't appreciate it. MAB4m paid attention the whole reading and I imagine will continue to like it more as she gets older.
