https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33441.Fluke
The female now had the Zodiac centered exactly over her genitals, using the rubber boat as an ad hoc diaphragm.”  (hide spoiler)] Alrighty then...It does have good points, Kona the surfer dude is a hoot, I’d just rather move onto one of his tastier books - Lamb  appeals.
Of course, as with any rule, there were exceptions: parts of Quebec, where people maintained the “dismissive to the point of confrontation, with subsequent surrender” mind-set of the French; and hockey, in which any Canadian may, with impunity, slam, pummel, elbow, smack, punch, body-check, and beat the shit out of, with sticks, any other human being, punctuated by profanities, name-calling, questioning parentage, and accusations of bestiality, usually—coincidentally—in French.”You nailed us Mr. Moore:)
I have yet to read a book by Christopher Moore that I did not like, that failed to entertain and enlighten and to simply be a very enjoyable good read.
Fluke is no exception.
From here we get taken on another Christopher Moore ride that is as hilarious and mind bending as the last.
I like them both and can see the similarities both in style and theme.
Fluke is a fun book with some scientific weight to it, but it never gets bogged down in too much explanation and remains to the end just another great book by Moore.
I wanted to discuss the manuscript you sent us.Christopher Moore: Yes, of course.
Unfunny non-fiction.CM: But that's my point!
I'm so funny people do not realize how much research I do on my topics.
a funny novel.
CM: So what did you like about it?BP: I loved the Rastafarian wanna-be.
Your research really is impressive.CM: Thank you.BP: And I loved that gotcha moment at the beginning where the marine biologist sees "Bite Me" written on the tail of the whale.CM: I'm glad, because you were my inspiration for that part.BP.
Soooo, it took me about 43 years to read this book.
And upon thinking for a while and discissing it with Christina for a while I've come to the conclusion that my opinion is based on a two-fold rubric.
(Can rubrics have folds?)Anyway...Point 1.
Character Development.
The character development in this book sucked balls.
Except for the fact that it didn't start until a third of the way into the book.
(I love science!!!)Let's discuss the above two points in more depth, shall we?
As far as character development goes, I'm really disappointed.
The book was ok, not great.
The insertion of scientific fact (mostly marine biology and humpback whales) and mysterious Defense Department goings-on only increased my interest.
And even though the second half of the book was entirely original, with its own absorbing twists and turns, it felt like a different book; like something I hadn't signed up for.
All of the new developments started feeling less like originality and more like a cop out.
It’s still a funny, mostly engaging read, but I finished “Fluke” with that feeling that is never a sign of a book gone well: I didn’t want more.
I love Christopher Moore..
The story is of a scientist who studies whales and their songs.
He has worked many many years in the field and when he sees the words "BITE ME" on the tail of one of his whales he is determined to find out how it is even possible.
There are a few memorable characters such as the Jersey boy who claims he is Hawaiian and a Rastafarian or the assistant who is smoking hot, but slightly not human.
In the end it was an interesting read, slightly humorous, but not one of my favorites.
I mean, how can you not like a writer who produces such lines as "A centipede the size of a Pontiac had once lived in the bottom-right corner of the trunk but had long since moved on once he realized that no one was ever going to bother him, so he could stand up on his hind hundred feet, hiss like a pissed cat, and deliver a deadly bite to a naked foot"?Moore writes about things he cares about -- and there are hundreds of them, from people to whales to fruit bats to island paradises to conservation issues to the inevitable jerks who make life so interesting, and on and on and on.
Christopher Moore does it again! Fluke: Or, I Know Why the Winged Whale Sings by Christopher Moore is a very enjoyable read! I have enjoyed every Christopher Moore book that I've read. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND this book.
Good book.Some laugh or loud moments.Not one of his best though.
Knowing a little something about Christopher Moore’s brand of humor, I didn’t make it a priority, the end result of which is that more than five years went by between when he sent it to me and when I finally opened it.
At the same time, though, Fluke had a surprisingly mysterious plot, and I found myself wanting to read it, even though reading it wasn’t all that enjoyable, just to figure out what the hell was going on.And… then I got to the end, and I read Moore’s notes and acknowledgements, and I realized that I couldn’t be angry at this book, or even all that frustrated.The thing is that Fluke is meticulously and accurately researched.
It is about Nate Quinn, a biologist who is studying humpback whales trying to figure out the meaning of their song.
Odd things start to happen, though, like finding a whale with ‘Bite Me’ painted on its tale and somebody breaking in and trashing his lab.
While trying to figure out who would want to sabotage his research he starts to question how much anybody could even care about the work he has done for the last 25 years, and realizes that even if he finds the meaning in the song, nobody would ever believe him.
5 OoksDo you like mysteries?Do you like to laugh?Have you ever wondered why whales sing?Did you ever wish you lived in Hawaii?Did you ever wish you could see one of those white-boy poser Rastafarians get a bit of a stomping?...Hey now, don't be a hater...Moore evokes beach people and the islands in this fun and fast moving tale.
It's filled with his usual wit and wacky, but lovable characters, and leavened with a bit of a message (but, not preachy).This is a book that will draw you in and leave you wanting more (no pun intended).
Even though it's a mystery, it's just as good on the second reading.
I picked it up because whales are one of my favorite animals, and I have always loved listening to their singing.
Author's Note (from the official site): What do most people know about whales beyond that fact that theyre big and wet?
Something happens when you spend any amount of time on the ocean with people who have a less than conservative view of how one should make his living: you begin to feel that adventure is its own reward.
As such, if he keeps me entertained and makes me laugh out loud, I consider his book to be a success.
Fluke is a typical Christopher Moore story in that it involves a group of wacky people working together in a preposterous situation.
=) I’m glad I went with the audio version of this book.
(Which sounds totally lame, but Christopher Moore’s characters all tend to be sarcastic and kind of snarky people.
He writes the sort of characters which I think work fantastically in the right movie, but can fall flat in print.) Christopher Moore fans will enjoy this one.
Anzi, pensandoci bene direi che tutti i personaggi sono ben riusciti e credibili.Il difetto che gli trovo, e che purtroppo riscontro in molti dei suoi libri, è che il finale quasi sempre non è all'altezza del libro.
I like reading books by Christopher Moore because they make me laugh out loud!
For a short time I thought I was going to be a scientist and majored in Biology so the whole science angle was appealing to me and who doesn't like whales?
What I didn't like was the continual use of "I think something and then I say it" such as "Nate was suddenly cold, and when he opened eyes, he was pretty sure that his head was going to explode.
'I'm pretty sure my head is going to explode,' he said.".
It's okay, I still like Moore and this was a pretty good book and it made me laugh.
The story starts with marine biologist Nate Quinn studying humpback whales when, all of a sudden, he sees one with "Bite me" written across its tail, which jump starts a whole series of increasingly odd events until things take a turn for the science fictional.It's this turn that seems to bother people in other reviews I've read, but I thought it was intriguing, and Moore deserves credit for describing these otherworldly elements as quickly and effectively as he does.
Everything is fine.
Everything always was, for the most part, fine.Full review here.
This is the second Christopher Moore book I've read, but it was certainly enough to get a handle on his typical plot line: Random guy gets involved in a strange situation he can't understand that relates to some type of odd deity, he falls for a very attractive girl who is involved in the weirdness, after very silly plot twists the couple find a way to "ride off into the sunset" together.
While this type of explanation would usually put me off reading more of his books, his writing is done so well and the stories so inventive and hilarious that I can't help but enjoy them.
He is so smart, it's insane and this book is proof of that.
The fact that he can take a well-researched topic and turn it into this bizarre and magical adventure is pretty amazing.
Honestly, I picked up this book so as to "get that one out of the way" as the plot didn't really interest me.
The story is super bizarre but it's highy enjoyable and the characters are really well-developed (which so far seems to be a constant with this author and possibly the reason I like him so much).
Christopher Moore tackles the scientific mystery of whale song in his own unique way.
It appears that Mr. Moore spent a fair amount of time with biologists and whale researchers in Hawaii preparing to write this book.
In Fluke Moore takes a serious topic and blends in just the right amount of absurdity.
I especially enjoy Moore's gift for simile and visual imagery.I’d recommend this to anyone who enjoys Douglas Adams, Terry Pratchett and/or Kurt Vonnegut – all masters of absurd humor and keen observers of humanity.
Moore sits comfortably in their ranks and I’m glad someone suggested his books to me.
I liked Lamb so much that I immediately purchased another Christopher Moore novel to start reading.
I will admit that this one was quite a bit more bizarre, but I enjoyed it just as much.
There was a lot of interesting facts about whales and biology thrown in so seamlessly that before you realized it, you had learned something.
Furthermore, there were many parts of this story that were laugh-out-loud funny and, like Lamb, I found it hard to put it down once I started.
I found Christopher Moore to be capable creating multidimensional characters that you can actually empathize with as the story progresses.

About a third of the way through Fluke, I was sure I knew what was going on (view spoiler)[The military had to be testing out some sort of mechanical whale submarines in the waters off Maui (hide spoiler)]. Wow, was I wrong. Very, very wrong. I did not see where this was going at all -- but man did I love the ride, and the cast of characters I took it with. An excellent blend of humor, science, environmentalism, science fiction, and adventure.
A ROMP. A ridiculous wild scientifically plausible romp of a book that made me laugh so hard my partner came to check on me. Repeatedly.There's some suspension of disbelief necessary, but it's the good and fun kind. And while the pace takes a little nap between pages 200-300, it picks back up again in a heartfelt Carol-Channing-dressed-like-a-sea-lion kind of way. And could you turn your back on such a sight? No you could not.
I'm not sure if I should give this book two or three stars. The characters were a little flat, the tone could get a little preachy, and I'm left thinking the book isn't quite as clever as the author thinks it is. I did finish it however, and I didn't want to stop reading it in the sense of a did not finish book. I also enjoyed the whole conversation about memes and genes. At the very least, the book has made me want to try another Moore book at some point.
Libro divertido y delirante. Buena opción para adentrarse en el mundo de Christopher Moore, supongo. Es el primero que leo de él, pero tengo ganas de leer más sus libros.
This was a fun read. Wacky fiction isn't my usual thing, but I enjoyed Moore's sense of humor and his writing style, and I'll look for more of his books.
The characters themselves were pretty much just as goofy as the characters in The Stupidest Angel, like Nathan “Nate” Quin intrepid yet “hopeless action nerd”, Kona the Rastafarian stoner from Jersey with blond dreads, Amy the mysteriously pale intelligent research assistant about whom Nate can’t stop fantasizing despite himself, the Old Broad Elizabeth who listens to whales in the harbor and insists Nate bring one particular whale a warm pastrami on rye sandwich, Clay the underwater photographer who is rather attached to his boat the “Always Confused”, Claire Clay’s S.O. who is really effective at keeping his life in order and bopping Kona on the head with a wooden spoon to knock sense into him as needed, Tarwater (?) and anyone else who appears either as a part of the US government/navy or as researchers driven more by money than by actual science, and especially the very whacky Colonel who thinks (view spoiler)[there is a great plot against all humanity and that the Goo is just waiting to wage an all-out bio attack on all humanity because humanity has been killing the whales (hide spoiler)].
For instance, Clair, age 40, can make Clay, age 50, do whatever she wants by reminding him she has "the booty." Well, yes, Clair, but at some point Clay is going to make autonomous decisions.The science in the book isn't too complicated to understand, and Moore admits in the end note (he always has one, to my knowledge) that while he talked to a lot of whale scientists, he ignored much of what they said and kept the stuff that would easily fit.
His novels have dealt with demons, Jesus’ best pal, bloodsucking fiends, death and sequined love nuns amongst other improbable subject matter.
The story begins when Nathan Quinn, a marine biologist, photographs the tail fin of a whale whilst on a routine research trip.
Later whilst looking over his pictures he notices that the words "BITE ME" are spelled out in huge letters on the mammal's tail-fin.
Moore’s great skill is to turn in a tightly plotted and humorous adventure yarn around this wild subject matter.
