https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/559889.Flood_Tide
I keep reading Clive Cussler's Dirk Pitt stories, even though they drive me up the wall.
This one had ALL my Cussler pet peeves:1.) Dirk Pitt as irresistible, life-altering stud-muffin.
Here I am acting like a brazen hussy, she thought, pursuing a man I hardly know.
Why, she wondered, of all the men in the world, why did someone like Dirk Pitt have to walk into my life?Spare me.2.) Cussler writes himself in as a minor character in the story.
Example:An older man, in what Pitt guessed was his mid-sixties, straddled a chair nearby but did not join in.
This is the second Dirk Pitt adventure I have read from Clive Cussler.
The first, Raise The Titanic!, didn't impress me, but it intrigued me enough to pick up another offering from the author.Well, after this, I doubt I'll pick up a third.
Cussler's writing is downright bad, the plot of the story was so obvious I had it figured out hundreds of pages ahead of time, and the combination of invincibility, luck, wit, and charm of Dirk Pitt was laughable.
Reading this, I actually felt as if my intelligence were being insulted by Clive Cussler.
Dirk Pitt takes a vacation in rustic Washington state. His neighbor is a seemingly paranoid Chinese tycoon, who bought up the whole rest of the lake where Pitt is staying. Pitt starts poking around, and finds that the bottom of the lake is littered with dead bodies, disposed of by the tycoon who is smuggling people into the US. This leads to a game of one upmanship between Pitt and the Tycoon to find a treasure ship containing all of the stuff Chiang Kai Shek smuggled out of China.Very exciting.
Another fun and thrilling Dirk Pitt adventure. Flood Tide has Pitt coming up against a Chinese tyrant who is selling illegal immigrants into slavery, and who is also in search of a long lost shipwreck. And we are introduced to Juan Cabrillo, who is the protagonist of the Oregon Files series, which is also written by Cussler, Cabrillo makes a cameo appearance, which I thought was pretty cool.I realize that since I've been reading the Dirk Pitt series in order, I realize he's getting up there in age, but he just gets better with age.
Good Guys WinFull of thrills. Great characters, even the bad ones. Unlikely tough guy is hit. Easy to read, hard to put down. The love interest is a great fit too. I'll continue the series.
3.5 stars A kind of weird story.
This book has Chinese stereotypes that make Fu Manchu look like a Nobel laureate. Read if you need something brain dead or if you enjoy "cabin in the woods" stories and don't mind a protagonist that seems physically young but who has the cultural sensitivity of a patriotic, battle-hardened seventy-something fiction author.
I enjoyed this read. Reality has to be suspended and once you have overcome that this turns into a ripping yarn involving a mad financial megalomaniac. Dirk is almost an American 007 licenced to kill.
Okay, I got bored and didn't read the last 100 pages. I think I've outgrown my liking for Dirk Pitt, sadly.
I've enjoyed several of Cussler's books, but this one left a bad taste in my mouth with his semi-racist depiction of the Chinese characters in the book.
I think I've found my Kryptonite...
Is that even possible?), the way that he mistakes eye-colour for characterisation, the long technical conversations between two people who already know every detail and don't need to discuss them, the assumption that people who have gone through a long and deeply unpleasant journey to escape the tyrannical rule of the Chinese government will want to establish it in the country they've just escaped to, the passages describing character traits that the characters in question will then utterly fail to exhibit, the way that every single damned character speaks with exactly the same voice, and...
(You may have gathered that I was not impressed with this book)If you can get past all of that, then you might find, buried in there somewhere, the corpse of a vaguely interesting plot...
I did enjoy Cussler's misuse of words and original descriptions.
Apart from disliking the hero, I found the 'Yellow Peril' theme, presented as more than a premise for an action adventure, disturbing.Cultural sensitivity: 'Through the doors of other rooms he could hear the strange, twangy sounds that Orientals call music.'Yellow Peril: 'Time is on our side.
If nothing else, future division and internal race wars will seal your fate as a great nation.
One day, sooner than you think, your coastal states and the Canadian provinces will be an extension of China'.
'You paint a grim picture for humanity,' said Julia, visibly shaken.
This is my third Drk Pitt novel, and it has been no less entertaining than the others I have read.
It's clear that Mr. Cussler did his research, as you can tell by the way he writes cars, boats, and weapons in here - always a big plus for nerds like me.
The main story itself is a bit cliche, but the Dirk Pitt novels have a sort of lightness that is lacking in authors like say, Tom Clancy.
Don't get me wrong, I like Tom Clancy, but the adventures of Dirk Pitt has a nice mixture of seriousness and humor which is hard for me to not appreciate.
The Chinese are coming! Illegally! The coincidences of these books are always maddening. A Chinese industrialist involved in trafficking immigrants to the US needs to be investigated just as Dirk Pitt stumbles upon one of his operations while on vacation. Despite all of that nonsense, Cussler's books are enjoyable mind candy. A little more stupid than Clancy in his prime and probably W.E.B. Griffin but they are fast paced stories that mean less time in front of the tv. Not a bad deal, I guess.
Took me a long time to get through this book. I've read most of the Dirk Pitt books by Clive Cussler, and enjoyed most of them. This one is a typical Pitt adventure, but it tends to kind of slog along in parts. Once the plot is fully realized it gets better, with Pitt and his NUMA colleagues stopping another evil madman from conquering a part of the seas and causing mayhem. Good for a beach read or when you want an adventure story, but not the best Pitt adventure for me, hence only three stars.
Wow! This is pure crap. I was amazed at how bad this was. It seems to be written by someone older and more manly than myself. Approximate quote: "Dirk walked passed the room with the loud noise that the orientals called music."Clive also implies that the Chinese were flooding America with immigrants as a way to stage an invasion from within. Of course, the heroine is Chinese and sexy.
This was adventure at it's best with this Dirk dude being almost comical in his ability to stay alive. We laughed a lot but it was interesting.
Wow, thought this was going to be a good, light action read. Instead it was a bad, repetitive read with a moderately good action story. Bummer.
Flood Tide by Clive Cussler The book starts out by retelling the story of a boat called “The Princess Dou Wan” as it sailed through some rough seas towards Singapore in order to be scrapped. The story recounts how the only survivors of the wreck clambered into a raft and sat in it waiting for the boat to land. They raft does eventually land and the people inside climb out onto the shore. This is the last we hear from this side of the story for quite some time. The story then transitions over to
Flood Tide by Clive Cussler	The book starts out by retelling the story of a boat called “The Princess Dou Wan” as it sailed through some rough seas towards Singapore in order to be scrapped.
The way Clive Cussler writes seems to be a kind of twisty turvy kind of writing style as in each book there are usually 2-3 different main plot points that keep the reader interested.
Being a ”James Bond” fan these books are a good way to provide a similar story and feeling while also have a slightly different writing style and new characters and plots.
a ship that sunk 50 years ago with priceless chinese treasures and the bones of the legendary peking man can this be his downfall once again a well written researched novel but there were a helluva lot of holes in it which i do not associate with this author - too co-incidental for pitt to be at orion lake just as the depts r meeting to halt the slave trade and also be in the lake at the exact same time that bodies and an ins agent r thrown into the lake to die; pitt would have been well over the limit to drive - 2 tequillas, champagne, cognac and port; would qin shang have knowingly revealed his achilles heel?
Review of Clive Cussler's novel FLOOD TIDEA enjoyable 'escape read'.
This book did not have many gadgets, which Cussler is known for .
It did however ; keep the reader's attention and be quite suspenseful.
Dirk Pitt and Al Giordino again perform perfectly and do not disappoint.
As well as being exhausted and still performing almost superhuman feats.
The book is enjoyable, even with some of minor inconsistencies.
The reader will be excited to have Pitt and Giordino on the task again.
Just a few minor inconsistencies to be rated between a 3 & 1\2 and 4 star rating.
Todo ello mezclado con una segunda historia en la que mezcla una historia relaciona con los acontecimientos de la Guerra Civil China de mediados del s.
XX, donde Chiang Kai-shek decide salgaguardar una serie de cosas, ante el avance de los comunista de Mao Tse-Tung.
Quizá esta parte sea la que más divertida me parecio, pero es nha historia menor dentro de la novela.En cuanto al villano, es el prototipo de ser adinerado que se cree dueño de su mundo, y de los demas, pero que no puede hacer nada contra DIrk Pitt.
(hide spoiler)]Julia [Dirk's newest love interest] is to infiltrate Qin Shang's operations AGAIN to figure out other ways the illegals are entering the country.
Shang intends to use the United States to act as a dam, forcing the Mississippi River to change course and merge with the Atchafalaya River, making his new port the only place West of New Orleans and Baton Rouge to allow ships to dock and unload in the region.
(hide spoiler)]Because Qin Shang is a strong support of the current United States president, he is allowed to leave the country and not be arrested for mass murder [among a multitude of other crimes].

"Greatest Adventure Stories Ever"This is the 14th novel in the Dirk Pitt series.
I read this many years ago, and now I've read it again as an e-book and I loved it.
Clive Cussler invites his readers to join his adventures.
There are five parts to this story and each has a goal that takes you from Washington State to Louisiana.
Also included is the sunken vessel which is lost with treasures from ancient China.
Needless to say more, you'll enjoy the adventures in this story as only Clive Cussler can create.
He's a magical author who can entertain you like no other author.
Cussler has produced some preposterous storylines in the Dirk Pitt series and thankfully Flood Tide is not one of them.
Dirk remains as indestructible as ever, this time up against a chinese megalomaniac whose plans are indeed very crafty.
The well thought out plot continues to escalate until its grand finale and provides plenty of thrills and spills, a few unlikely coincidences, a little romance, a few villains and lots of spent ammo.
A little wordy in places, Flood Tide for the most part is a very compentent action thriller and should keep Cussler fans and new readers happy until the end.
Dirk Pitt at his best.Defying death again and again Pitt continues to amaze and entertain. As an avid fan, I have read most of this series but this adventure ends in a way that, well, brought me to tears. We all know that good will win out in these adventures and NUMA will survive along with Dirk who, tough and wily as he is has a soft side that usually wins the heart of the ladies he meets along the way. Without giving anything away, this time he shows his compassionate side.....loved it!
A Dirk Pitt adventure which has the added benefit of introducing Juan Cabrillo and the crew of the Oregon. Tracking down an international "people smuggling" ring leads Pitt and his cohorts, Rudi Gunn and Al Giordino, from the Pacific Northwest to the Atchafalaya Swamp in Louisiana, and numerous points in between. On the side, they are also tracking a lost Chinese treasure trove, including the bones of the Peking Man. A lot of action, and political double dealing.
A great read.Dork Pitt is up to his neck in political warfare that only he gets into. Jeopardy from Chinese billionaire and a U.S. Government filled with takers of dirty money. This novel moves from one area of the world with lightening speed. Pitt finds himself facing a formidable foe and enough red tape to the world with. A great read. 👍👍
