https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/308585.Never_Love_a_Stranger
The first and only novel I've read by Harold Robbins is this one, which was his 1948 debut. Before I address the book, let me share  some astounding numbers . They stunned me because, although I'd grown up hearing and seeing the name Harold Robbins all around, I had no idea just how popular an author he was. Get this: In his writing career which plateaued in popularity from the mid 1950s through the late 1970s, over 750 million copies of Robbins' books were sold. As of 2008 (following the public
The first and only novel I've read by Harold Robbins is this one, which was his 1948 debut.
Get this: In his writing career which plateaued in popularity from the mid 1950s through the late 1970s, over 750 million copies of Robbins' books were sold.
As of 2008 (following the publication of the last Harry Potter novel), 400 million copies of JK Rowlings' books have been purchased.
In any case, reading a Harold Robbins' book was something I wanted to do once and reviewing the descriptions of his books, this one sounded most like a novel I'd like.
What Robbins did have in common with Frankie was an innate and powerful drive to succeed, which matched the powerful narrative drive of his best novels.4/14: NEVER LOVE A STRANGER takes place over two decades, beginning (after a short prologue in which, like Dickens's David Copperfield, the central character is born) in 1925 and ending after the close of World War Two. This book has a fine feeling for atmosphere and character - it was written, of course, back when Robbins put some thought and effort into both, before he became what's now known as a "Brand-Name Author." Robbins could accomplish quite a bit with a few concise, down-to-earth sentences; this is a gritty story, and his prose is suitably unadorned and unpretentious Legend has it that NEVER LOVE A STRANGER was written as the result of a bet between Robbins and a co-worker at Universal, where Robbins was working as a reader - he supposedly tossed aside a book the studio had just paid a tidy sum for and said "I could write a better book than than!" The co-worker bet him $100 that he couldn't.
I was not sure how this would be but I actually loved this story, it was a page turner for sure.
Dad, (my FIL) is an avid 85 year old (maybe that is why his mind is so sharp) reader who reads paper books whereas I read on my Kindle, recommended this book and several others.
Now to the heart of the matter, the story.
I was continually surprised in what direction the author was taking us the reader.
There are 6 parts narrated by Frankie and interludes between that his friends and third person take over the story.
I read this book back when i was in 8th grade i guess. My dad was cleaning his shelf and he handed me this remarkable piece of fiction. It's my all-time favorite book!!
I love this book, I love the characters and the story and everything about this book ☺ If you need to read something special, you will make the right desicion with this book.
I love this book, I love the characters and the story and everything about this book ☺️ If you need to read something special, you will make the right desicion with this book.
Francis (Frankie) Kane grew up in a Catholic Orphanage in New York City in the 1920's.
He goes to school as told, but works for a gambling boss as a numbers runner.
He makes a lot of money until he witnesses the murder of his boss and the king pin.
He loses them when they leave New York, but because Frankie is not 18, he has to return to the orphanage.
Frankie runs away and starts on a road of a worse life.
Ruth new him better than he knew himself.
A sad, but very touching book.
I listened to this story on a very long road trip across the east coast and it kept my attention.
It starts off with Frank's life as young boy and it was interesting for a while but then the story started to drag on.
There were many slow parts that didn't add any depth, it was just random parts in Frank's life that could have been omitted and people would have still got the picture.
I did not like that the entire story was centered around Frank.
Frank, himself, was a little confusing.

hehehhe... know not what to write about it.
FLAWLESS. From start to finish.Totally fall in love with Frankie.
u jus cant tel anythng wts in frank's mind...aftr reading d whole novel i stil dint undrstnd him...he sounds so mysterious... so simple at times...hard to predict...njoyd d ups n down in his life..
In his decision, the judge proclaimed, “I would rather my daughter learn about sex from the pages of a Harold Robbins novel than behind a barn door.”For me, Never Love a Stranger gets filed under the category of “guilty pleasure.” The plot follows the life of Frankie Kane, a street-wise orphan who scraps his way to the top of a criminal empire during the Great Depression.
“I’ve loved you so much ever since we were children that at night I couldn’t sleep for the wanting of you, that when we didn’t know where you were I would dream about you, that all these last months I was longing for you to take me -- I wanted your child inside me under my heart.” Her voice was strained and shaking with emotion.
The first Harold Robbin’s book that I have read was The Adventurers.
It has very interesting plots and defined characters in this novel and it was like watching a movie or a TV series.
But it is Robbin’s first novel Never Love a Stranger that I read later that ranked higher in my list.
A few things stood out for me in Never Love a Stranger.
The difficulty of fitting in with antagonistic world and the corresponding price to you make the grade is the sense you get after reading this book.
con un sabor distinto a las historias que en ese entonces se publicaban en el New York Times.
de hecho este libro comenzó como una apuesta, ademas de que Harold quería demostrar ser capaz de escribir un guion más interesante que los que se encontraban en ese momento en las mecas del cine.*sigh* en fin...
ame tanto este libro que de hecho lo leí dos veces.un gran best seller clásico que recomiendo leer y tener en físico ya que es una gran pieza de colección.totalmente recomendado.
Never Love a Stranger tells the dirty and enthusiastic story of Francis "Frankie" Kane, from his pitiful beginnings as a vagrant in New York's Hell's Kitchen.
From that befuddled and putting down begin, Frank works his way up, picking the wrong side of the law to become well known.
At a youthful age, he ends up plainly one of the city's most perilous men, enjoying his enthusiasm for power, sex, and the best things in life-regardless of whether they can be obtained.
Never Love a Stranger investigates a New York that is a distant memory by-uncovering life amid and after the Great Depression, when the syndicate administered the city without benevolence.
I think that if you like one Robbins' book, you'll like them all. I've read most of them during the high school, and I enjoyed them very much. Maybe because his characters were always so defined; and he had interesting plots. He kept you awake and turning pages. I loved his male characters, always a strong persona, who have had difficult and scary upbringing, but they still end up being good people.
Francis was born an orphan. In the 1920's, all orphans had were the sheets and streets. A place to lay their heads and the rest they made up. He did what he could to survive. As a kid, he was a well known hustler. He was sure of himself. Over-confident even. There was something about Frankie that was different and attracted people. But there was also something in him that made you feel unsteady.
basically i am not found of reading books, one day i was at home very much frustrated and bored. while i am searching for something i found this book and kept a side. after a while i just opened the book just read few pages its 2 years back, from then till now i read around 15 times i just involved in it thanks robbin for the great book
I'm rereading this well loved book after so many years. I read it the first time as a paperback novel. It shames me to admit that I forgot the right combination of words that make the title of the book , after I gave it to a friend(who never returned it ).here whatever you know how to do is your best shot at fame and fortune.
This is not my first Harold Robbins book and undoubtedly not my last.. Francis ''Frankie'' Kane is such a strong character,so mysterious yet so simple at times and you found yourself always wondering what's in his mind,what will be his next move..I couldn't put this book down,I was hooked :-D
Review was done on my other Kindle on 12/20/15. GREAT STORY!I have to type enough words to me to be able to send this out to let you know that I have already placed a review from my second Kindle.Thank you
I liked it at the beginning but then it became repetitive and obsessively centered on the main character, plus very banal in some passages and superficial (I'm referring to the love-stories) so in the end I just finished it to see if it improved but it was very disappointing!
Great book. Timeless read. Wonderfully written.
best book 4 me
A powerful read about passion, power ambition & sex..
Harold Robbins was the author perhaps most circulated/read in the boarding school I attended in Ghana.
Read it long long ago. Quite a good one. Not sure if I will like it now. But this is among Robbin's 4-5 really good ones among all that he wrote.
Very good book. Francis Cain is a very elusive yet quietly confident character. have re-read it several times and always got captivated by idiosyncrasies of Francis Cain
My Fav book !!love it!!
the first book that i finished reading whole and still looking for the same book. To have it again.
