https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1258536.Poems_of_Paul_Celan
How does one possibly write an adequate “review” or response to such a book?
Celan’s work first entered my life during research for my Master’s Thesis on language and brutalisation in Nazi Germany.
Since then I have read numerous translations, with side-by-side German texts where possible, and any of his prose, correspondence or speeches I could locate.
Any response to a reading of Celan in translation must navigate the fact that the German language defines him.
His work is a response to, and a breathing through, that polluted and always-already shattered etymological world.
These poems are essential reading.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Translating at the Limits of Translatability or My Personal Journey with Celan: “Não Sabemos mesmo O Que Importa”/”Wir wissen ja nicht, was gilt”/”We Don’t Really Know What Matters” by Paul Celan, Gilda Lopes Encarnação (translator)One day I got to my class and after 10 minutes without other classmates arriving, my teacher Winfred Scheulen and I agreed to talk about anything worth our fancy.
My journey of discovery regarding Celan started that day.
From Language MeshEye’s roundness between the bars.Vibratile monad eyelidpropels itself upward,releases a glance.Iris, swimmer, dreamless and dreary:the sky, heart-grey, must be near.And, towards the end of the poem, he sees two puddles made by rain which, though within distance of a kiss, are like crippled mouths - beautiful image, simply brilliant!The flagstones.

When the book was published, to great critical acclaim, the presumption was that Kosinksi's account was based on his own experiences during the war, which belief he did nothing to dispel.When "The Painted Bird" was finally published in Poland (it was banned there for over a decade), the Polish couple who rescued Kosiński (then Josef Lewinkopf) during the war, even though in German occupied Poland any kind of help to a person of Jewish faith or origin was punishable by death often for the whole family, became highly indignant about how they were depicted.
If you are of my demographic and you dwell too long on the barbarity of Europe's twentieth century you are accused of pessimism (an awful crime in our day and age), especially if you happen to be taking this stand against aging sixties liberal radicals who seriously don't want to think that they didn't make the world a better place, and that the last twenty eight years (give or take a couple of decades) of US gross misconduct is just some aberration of sorts that stands against the greater trend of progress the world has enjoyed under their influence and tutelage.
Read in 1999.Devastating.Death Fugueby Paul Celan translated by Jerome RothenbergBlack milk of morning we drink you at dusktimewe drink you at noontime and dawntime we drink you at nightwe drink and drinkwe scoop out a grave in the sky where it’s roomy to lieThere’s a man in this house who cultivates snakes and who writeswho writes when it’s nightfall nach Deutschland your golden hair Margareta he writes it and walks from the house and the stars all start flashing he whistles his dogs to draw ne
Read in 1999.Devastating.Death Fugueby Paul Celan	translated by Jerome RothenbergBlack milk of morni
I think John Felstiner, the translator of this volume, does an excellent job of rendering it in English.
I don't mind translators taking liberties for the sake of idiom and making the poem comfortable in its new language, but I do take issue with imposing unnatural 'flourish.'Because Celan uses a lot of German compound words in his poetry, translators often import them as single words into English, where they can look uncomfortable.
I think compound words are one of the charms of Celan’s poetry, and that charm can get lost whether the word is preserved as one or split as is more natural in English.
Ellerin zamanlarla dolu geldin bana - dedim ki:Kahverengi değil saçların. Bunun üzerine onları hafifçe acının terazisine bıraktın;benden ağırdılar...Sana gemilerle gelip yüklüyorlar, sonra satışa çıkarıyorlarhepsini şehvetin pazarlarında -Derinlerden geliyor gülümsemen, ben ise hafif kalan kefede ağlamaktayım. Ağlıyorum: kahverengi değil saçların, denizi sunmaktalarsen onları dalgalandırırken...Fısıldıyorsun: dünyayı doldurmaktalar benimle, bense, bomboş bir yoldan başka bir şey değilim senin y
Ellerin zamanlarla dolu geldin bana - dedim ki:Kahverengi değil saçların. Bunun üzerine onları hafifçe acının terazisine bıraktın;benden ağırdılar...Sana gemilerle gelip yüklüyorlar, sonra satışa çıkarıyorlarhepsini şehvetin pazarlarında -Derinlerden geliyor gülümsemen, ben ise hafif kalan kefede ağlamaktayım. Ağlıyorum: kahverengi değil saçların, denizi sunmaktalarsen onları dalgalandırırken...Fısıldıyorsun: dünyayı doldurmaktalar benimle, bense, bomboş bir yoldan başka bir şey değilim senin yüreğinde! Diyorsun ki: kuşan yılların yapraklarını - zamanıdır artıkgelip beni öpmenin!Ama yıllanan yaprakların aksine, artık kahverengi değil saçların.
Thread Suns Thread sunsabove the grey-black wilderness.A tree-high thoughttunes in to light's pitch: there arestill songs to be sung on the other sideof mankind.
Não é de fácil entendimento. Lido, relido...em silêncio, em voz alta...E mesmo assim...Mas é belo, harmonioso, comovente...Como este, que talvez não o entenda como Paul Celan quer, mas como eu quero..."UM DIA E MAIS OUTROVento do Suão, tu. O silêncio passou-nos à frente, uma segundavida, nítida.Ganhei, perdi, acreditámosem maravilhas sombrias, o galho,escrito à pressa no céu, transportou-nos, cresceuem traços brancos para a órbita lunar, uma manhãsaltou para cima de ontem, dispersos,buscámos o candeeiro, espalheitudo nas mãos de ninguém."Para ler e reler...
23* * *Do not seek your mouth on my lips,nor a stranger at the gate,nor a tear in the eye.Seven nights higher Red wanders to Red,seven hearts deeper a hand raps at the gate,seven roses later the wellspring rushes.- Crystal, pg.
67* * *Lay in his grave for the dead man the wordshe spoke so as to live.Cushion his head among them,let him feelthe tongues of longing,the tongs.Lay on the lids of the dead man the wordhe denied to that onewho said Thou to him,the wordhis heart's blood skipped past onwhen a hand as bare as his ownstrung up into trees of the futurethe one who said Thou to him.Lay this word on his lids:perhapsin his still-blue eye a second,stranger blue will enter,and the one who said Thou to himwill dream with him: We.- Paul Éluard, pg.
From Mohn und Gedächtnis (1952)...Autumn eats its leaf out of my hand: we are friends.From the nuts we shell time and we teach it to walk:then time returns to the shell.In the mirror it's Sunday,in dream there is room for sleeping,our mouths speak the truth.My eye moves down to the sex of my loved one:we look at each other,we exchange dark words,we love each other like poppy and recollection,we sleep like wine in the conches,like the sea in the moon's bloody ray.We stand by the window embracing, and people look up from the street:it is time they knew!It is time the stone made an effort to flower,time unrest had a beating heart.It is time it were time.It is time.- Corona, pg.
So you lifted it lightly on to the scales of grief; it weighed more than I..----My eye moves down to the sex of my loved one: we look at each other, we exchange dark words, we love each other like poppy and recollection, we sleep like wine in the conches, like the sea in the moon's blood ray----Thread suns above the grey-black wilderness.
A treehigh thought tunes in to light's pitch: there are still songs to be sung on the other sideof mankind----You were my death: you I could hold when all fell away from me
Beautiful, sober, passionate, redemptive poetry. It's been a while, but want to read again. Somehow reminds me of Rothko's black on black paintings... Profound, postwar German/Jewish poet writing in German. An encounter not to be missed.
Poems so strange and stirring that you're compelled to recite them aloud - and end up with a mouth full of broken teeth.
Paul Celan’den ilk defa şiir okudum ve harikaydı! ❤ Özellikle çeviriye bayıldım. Çeviri şiirlerindeki duygu eksikliğini hiç hissetmedim. Aksine şairin duygularını net bir şekilde görebildim. Tavsiye edilir
Paul Celan’den ilk defa şiir okudum ve harikaydı! ❤️ Özellikle çeviriye bayıldım. Çeviri şiirlerindeki duygu eksikliğini hiç hissetmedim. Aksine şairin duygularını net bir şekilde görebildim. Tavsiye edilir
NASIL DA ölmektesin içimde:yıpranmışson birnefes yumağında bile,bir hayatkıymığı gibisaplısın.
Only for the battle-hardened reader, for there is no spring, no glee in Celan's poems.
I could not much understand the later poems, ones that blast through with a flurry of intended half-images that my mind couldn't both create and connect at the same time.My favorite poems are listed below, with a line or two that I will absolutely never forget:Sand from the UrnsDeath Fugue (Todesfuge)Memory of France - Together with me recall: the sky of Paris, that giant autumn crocus...I can still see youShibboleth - Set your flag at half-mast, / memory.
H. Lawrence, to determine where the lines should end"); Paul Celan is no exception in that most of his poems leave me simply baffled.
/ My mother's hair was never white.
/ My yellow-haired mother did not come home.
I had been particularly struck by the poem "The Guest" from Threshold:"Long before nightfall / someone who exchanged greetings with darkness / comes to spend the night with you.
/ Long before daylight / he wakes / and, before leaving, kindles a sleep, / a sleep echoing with footsteps: / you hear him going off, measuring distances, / and you throw your soul / after him."And since Selected Poems was available but Threshold was not, I downloaded it to read...
“He speaks truly who speaks the shade” I was eighteen and obsessed with this verse. I can’t remember where I found it, maybe I had read it in a book, maybe someone had given it to me (we used to collect quotes then). I knew it was Paul Celan’s, but I did not know Paul Celan. I did not even know how to pronounce his name – it sounded French to me, but I had a vague suspicion it could be Romanian. And of course, living in a communist Romania I couldn’t possible make a genuine research and soon I
But, in some corner of my mind, Paul Celan always lingered and thirty years after I can at last put a title and a poem and a book around that strangely beautiful verse.
Anyway, his penname would eventually be pronounced in a French manner, since he lived in Paris until his death.
That said, it is almost uncanny to discover the verse that impressed me so much that it stayed with me all these years contains “in nuce” all his poetic beliefs and obsessions, like a concise ars poetica that rejects confessional and realistic poetry, yet without resorting to the hermetic.
فوگمرگ شیرِ سیاهِ سپیدهدمان ، مینوشیم به شامگاه مینوشیم به نیمروز و بامداد ، مینوشیم شبانگاه مینوشیم و مینوشیم گوری در آسمان حفر میکنیم ، آنجا دیگر جایمان تنگ نیست...Todesfuge Schwarze Milch der Frühe wir trinken sie abends wir trinken sie mittags und morgens wir trinken sie nachts wir trinken und trinken wir schaufeln ein Grab in den Lüften da liegt man nicht eng ...Death FugueBlack milk of morning we drink you at dusktimewe drink you at noontime and dawntime we drink you at nightwe drink and
English Translation by John Felstiner-------------------------------------آقای احمدی کارم جلو نمی رود و ازش راضی نیستم چون اصل آلمانی اش را نمی فهمم مثلن در آلمانی سلان اسم شعر را با یک کلمه ی ترکیبی ساخته اما در ترجمه ی فارسی و بسیاری انگلیسی خرابش کرده اند.
اما خب ادامه می دهم چون تا تمام نشود ازش خلاص نخواهم شد
to stand in the shadowof the scar up in the air.to stand-for-no-one-and-nothing.unrecognized,for you alone.with all there is room for in that,even withoutlanguage.
When the book was published, to great critical acclaim, the presumption was that Kosinksi's account was based on his own experiences during the war, which belief he did nothing to dispel.When "The Painted Bird" was finally published in Poland (it was banned there for over a decade), the Polish couple who rescued Kosiński (then Josef Lewinkopf) during the war, even though in German occupied Poland any kind of help to a person of Jewish faith or origin was punishable by death often for the whole family, became highly indignant about how they were depicted.

Threadsunsabove the grayblack wastes.A tree-high thoughtgrasps the light-tone: there arestill songs to sing beyondmankind.
(There is a temptation to quote it in full; it's best to look it up.) Here's a piece:Black milk of daybreak we drink you at nightwe drink you at noon death is a master from Germanywe drink you at sundown and in the morning we drink and we drink you.Death is a master from Germany his eyes are bluehe strikes you with leaden bullets his aim is truea man lives in the house your golden hair Margaretehe sets his pack on to us as he grants us a grave in the airhe plays with the serpents and daydreams death is a master fromGermanyyour golden hair Margareteyour ashen hair ShulamithAnother early poem is also lyrical and moving but better demonstrates the pared down style that would become Celan's style by necessity.ASPEN TREE, your leaves glance white into the dark.My mother's hair was never white.Oaken door, who lifted you off your hinges?My gentle mother cannot return.Something happens as Celan digs depper and deeper into poetry.
An example he used is this sentence: “Colorless ideas sleep furiously.”It seems to me that when Chomsky asserts this he is using ‘make’ in a narrow sense.
“If you say, “life is a nightmare”, you evoke a universe of darkness and suffering where sordid details struggle for realization.So it is with Chomsky’s own sentence.
You can put two words together in a way that does not harmonize rationally with the world, as you know it, but does create a new sense, a new batch of meaning.
Reading this book is a long struggle in which you time after time are forced to make (create) sense based on the chimeric materials Celan provides you.
As Hamburger the translator says so aptly, "The process of reception, therefore, cannot be other than gradual and slow...and it seems likely that the translation of his work will also have to be done in stages, patiently, for a long time to come." Besides, there are so many amazing lines that you have to just stop and let them linger in you.
A key moment in reading this book was the thought "Oh!
Celan is just like Lorca!" But while the Spanish modernist's use of surreal and disjunctive imagery seemed to affirm some kind of subconscious world thick with significance, Celan's seem to whirl away from it.
At least in his earlier poems there's a palpable sense of beauty that keeps things together, even if I don't know what they're about.
But later on, I felt really shut out of the poems.
With Celan, I might have picked up the book, been baffled, and put it down.
But Hamburger said straight up how difficult Celan was, and gave the reader some important reference points.
