https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/564317.The_Lurking_Fear_and_Other_Stories
The Shadow over Innsmouth is a truly creepy story.
"Beyond the Wall of Sleep" is an early horror tale that hints at coming Dreamworld developments.
It is also a foray into the eugenic theories of degeneracy which influence much of Lovecraft."The White Ship" is a more developed Dreamworld tale of a young man who forsakes reality for the more interesting world he can visit by traveling the path of imagination, and the error which hubris leads him to."Arthur Jermyn" is another story of the cursed degeneration of a noble line of scholars.
Apparently Lovecraft never intended it to be published or read."The Outsider" is an unusually Gothic tale with a rather predictable twist ending.
The title story, the lurking fear, offered some promise when you sat back and contemplated the actual storyline but felt very rushed and clunky to me and wasn't a great starting tale.
I also felt a little bit put off by some details about lovecraft's life and worldviews which were mentioned in the introduction, ( I TRY NOT TO READ IT FIRST BUT I FELT COMPELLED THIS TIME) looks like we have an overt racist, but I cannot comment on that fully until I've read one of the stories that fully mentions it.
One little bugbear that was also starting to get at me was the use of the final line being the shocking thing that created the highest point of fear for each story.
my first lovecraft read!!I took this slow, reading one story every few days to savor his style of writing... I mean, with such precision in his word choice and detail, Lovecraft is the king of description. He has a way of weaving a story that draws you in, makes you feel a sort of unnerving suspense from the first word, and as much as you may guess the direction a story is being taken, he runs with it, going even deeper, making every twist, every revelation that much creepier 😍
The Shadow over Innsmouth is up there as one of his best stories.
I've always thought Lovecraft's influence arose from his single-mindedness - he didn't allow anything as paltry as good writing to get in the way of his metaphysical disquietude.
We have "Arthur Jermyn," which by far is the most blatant testament to Lovecraft's racism.
The eponymous Arthur basically discovers - to his horror - his African heritage, and naturally is driven to take his accursed life.
There are two perfectly wonderful stories in this collection, though.
I can't remember him ever writing a particularly memorable protagonist to his stories (and in all fairness its tough for misanthropes to create likable characters).
My two favourite stand-out stories in this collection were by far "The Lurking Fear" and "Beyond the Wall of Sleep"."The Lurking Fear" was written in 1922 and is about a group of men who investigate a creepy abandoned mansion on a mountain and after a few of them are murdered in a grisly and horrible way, a monster of terrifying image appears.
Not scary, just a good old-fashioned horror story."Beyond the Wall of Sleep" was written in 1919 and is about an intern at a mental hospital who is fascinated by Joe Slater, a patient who is a backwoods hick capable of murder.
Of course, Lovecraft tends to be rather philosophical and introspective in his own tales and this is the salient feature which distinguishes them - they seem to be less plot driven, no, to put it in another way, it's not only the incidents which seem to matter but the implications behind the phenomena, if indeed they were true (as in the tales they are very much so to the protagonists).
Perhaps The Lurking Fear was the first story of the anthology, and that explains why I loved it most out of all of the listed, or maybe it worked the other way around (in that it was put first because its quality stands out).
Nobody does horror quite like H.P. Lovecraft, and this book of strange and sinister stories is no exception. Definitely a book worth reading :D
This was my first foray into the world of HP Lovecraft. It was my in my mother's book and I'll never forget some of the things I read in it.
His more entertaining stories, such as The White Ship, or Beyond the Wall of Sleep are engaging right from the beginning, the characters are interesting and events are written in a way that you don't have to reread the same paragraph 3 times to understand what exactly Lovecraft is trying to get you to feel.
The stories that require delving deep into them to understand the meaning are still interesting but I think if I hadn't been interested in Lovecraft's dark imagination, I may have stopped reading about two thirds of the way through.
I would say that about two thirds of the stories contained in this book are fun to read, and make you think about what it means to be human.
This is the second book in that project and we delve far more into the mythos in this book than in "The Doom that came to Sarnath".
Lovecraft is a master at atmosphere and theme, but he's an amateur at dialogue and action.
This precludes most action from taking place, but here, there are a few stories that actually have that action, and it's a little spastic.
Lovecraft is so specific that it he tries to describe everything in a room, while action is happening, and it becomes very confusing.
If you're a fan of horror, I would jump into this one (possibly skip "The Doom that came to Sarnath").
There is some poetic sickness to the surroundings, the story builds up to a final riveting conclusion, in short, the classic Lovecraft experience. However, what is new, a detail maybe, is that the story is for once associated with the idea of a crowd: some reporters coming to the doomed village. The media attention makes the story more real in a sense, since the other Lovecraftian stories usually represent a lonely journey where reality and dream, sanity and madness, are difficult to dissociate.
Mixed bag of short stories from Lovecraft. "The Shadow Over Innsmouth" is a classic, of course, and several other stories were fairly memorable ("From Beyond", "The Temple", "Beyond the Wall of Sleep"). Plenty more were mediocre (or notably racist!). If you're looking for an introduction to the horror great, I'd steer toward a better curated set of his works.
Some of Lovecraft's best works, most of which are not included in the Necronomicon. The weird and uncanny tales have aged better than those in the Necronomicon as well, with the 'big reveals' less obvious and many stories simply conjuring up a feeling of unease rather than providing a narrative.
This is the first collection of H.P. Lovecraft stories that I ever read, in my Junior High/High School years back in the day. Totally fascinating! Eerie & eldritch! A copy my Dad had bought back in the 1940's, I think.
I really love the storytelling here, but holy *censored* that's some racism front and center. Makes Kipling's Empire-centric stuff look like dabbling.
Mostly good, some not so much
The Bulgarian edition of this Lovecraft anthology is very different (it only features a small handful of stories, at least one of which isn’t in the original).
The Lurking Fear (BG edition) contains two of the three short stories (by any writer) that have genuinely scared me.
After I was done with the potato sack of books my mom and I dragged home that day, it was King I fell for, head over heels, but it’s Lovecraft’s brain I’m still humbled and fascinated by because he actually made me afraid.
Anyway, I HAVE read the original Lurking Fear anthology, and my favorite stories featured in it would be Shadow over Innsmouth and Dagon.
Not all the stories are equally good, but together they present the most peculiar ficture of the author and his inner world.I am going to base this review on the hypothesis that when describing human fears and their consequences Lovecraft was mainly targetting his own darkest and deepest terrors.
The personalised approach equally loathed and cherished by the author makes this 250 pages book much more valuable that it might have seemed from the firts sight.The only critical remark I have about this book (and Lovecraft in general) is the everpresent limitation he bestows upon himself.
Namely, all his stories are told by the main character.
People read that he influenced the modern greats, everyone form authors like Stephen King and Clive Barker, to movie makers like John Carpenter and Wes Craven, and then dive into his books expecting the same fare.
His mind-bending, first person surrealistic approach to a creeping, nameless horror stunned and fascinated huge segments of early century America.
The America that read, that is, which wasn't nearly what it is today.
They broke conventions and rearranged the way a future breed of horror authors would look at the world.
Even today, I find them stunningly original, and well worth the read.
As a horror fan, I'm probably not as well-read in Lovecraft literature as I should be.
This collection includes both Dagon-related stories, the first titled "The Shadow Over Innsmouth," and the second, simply "Dagon." The title story, "The Lurking Fear" is very good; those three may be the best in the collection.
Worth checking out for fans of short macabre stories; twelve quick stabs to the heart in under 200 pages.
The Lurking Fear is a collection of 12 separate stories, written from the mid 20s to the late 30s, and generally can be considered part of the classic Lovecraft body of work.
In particular, stories like The Shadow Over Innsmouth, Dagon, The Temple, The Outsider, and Arthur Jermyn are among the best he wrote; some of the dream-sequence stuff, like The White Ship, are less powerful but still unmistakeably Lovecraftian.
Stories like these are best read separately, individually; when run together, some of the effect wears off, the bones in the writing style poke through, and a lot seems predictable because repetitive.
Just finished a collection of H.P. Lovecraft short stories.
My first real foray into Lovecraft was pleasant but left some to be desired.Lovecraft has a very interesting style but at times is too long winded in his description.
Also I find his narration style, always an unnamed man, to be too similar and in a short story collection makes the reader tire quickly of reading; at least it did for this reader.However, some of the stories were really good.
These were really well written and the creepiest.I think everyone needs to read Lovecraft and this collection would be a great way to start and test the waters.
En el aniversario del nacimiento de H.P.Lovecraft leí "el horror oculto" como siempre este clásico autor no me decepciona con sus oscuros relatos llenos de seres espeluznantes. y está obra no fue la excepción, en este caso una repulsiva criatura que sólo salía de noche precedida por fuertes truenos causaba la muerte de sus víctimas desmembrándolas de maneras impensables, una antigua casa abandonada en el bosque alberga la maligna criatura caníbal producto de la endogamia en una milenaria familia.Se nota mucho en el relato el clasismo y racismo del autor, imperantes en la época en que el vivió.
H.P. Lovecraft is an influential writer of horror who has gained fame after his death. My tastes seem more in line with his contemporaries. I didn't like his writing and his stories were strange, but not startling. This book was rather boring, but the short stories make it readable during trips. Short stories found in Alfred Hitchcock Magazine are better.Read to p. 98 which includes: The Lurking Fear; Dagan; Beyond the Wall of Sleep; The White Ship; Arthur Jermyn; From Beyond; The Temple; The Moon-Bog; The Hound
This is another Lovecraft collection that I've been reading for years and just decided to finish this year. Surprisingly, I thought the title story was the worst of the lot. That said it still wasn't bad, just a little over the top with the "indescribable horror" stuff (yes even for Lovecraft). The other story that was rather strange was -The Temple- which felt like it was some one else writing a Lovecraft story. Other than that though many of these are solid additions to the Lovecraft library, -Shadows Over Innsmouth- probably being the highlight of the collection.
This is the first book of H. P. Lovecraft I owned. Rereading the stories now, I still find them frightening. This collection contains "The Shadow over Innsmouth," which Lovecraft didn't like; despite this, it's one of my favorites. It combines Lovecraft's cosmic horror with an edge of your seat adventure. Of course, there is "The Lurking Fear" which I would only read during a thunderstorm if I was under extreme duress. Good stuff!
HPL's approach usually involves a survivor telling us a tale in flashback, larded with adjectives like "ghastly," "strange," "grotesque," "blasphemous" and "morbidity," about some cosmic horror that, say, casts shadows "which no mind could fully grasp and no pen even partly describe" (thus letting the author off the hook). Pulpy, almost campy at times, but, if you can surrender yourself to it, pretty amazing.
Apparently I am not to be a Lovecraft fan, I should be as he wrote in the Pulp era and is along the lines of many of my favorite writers from then. I have tried reading his fiction several times at various times in my life and never seem to get into it. Good selection of his stories in this book both long and short. Several good ideas for plots but the writing seems to drag. For me this is a book not recommended to other readers.
