https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39933.How_to_Read_Literature_Like_a_Professor
In that sense Foster can consider it a reasonable success.So here is a quick list of easy things to watch out for when you read literature:1) Every time a character in the book takes any journey/trip of any sort, start looking for tropes like gatekeepers, dragons, treasures etc.
Who can read and understand Hemingway without knowing of his history?13) Christ figures are everywhere and anytime anyone is even slightly noble be on the lookout for christ archetypes like disciples and sacrifice and betrayal.14) If anyone flies or falls for too long, Icarus and his imaginary cousins are probably being invoked.15) Lot of things can stand for sex and it is important to understand the meaning of tall buildings.
I have read more than a few books of this sort. This one stands above the crowd. While the material may not be particularly novel, it does pull together core truths about how literature can be understood, and communicates that information in a very accessible manner. It has made a world of difference in my approach to reviewing. I made my teenagers read this, back when they were actually teenagers. Revised and re-released - May 16, 2017
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. How to Read Literature Like a Professor offers an extensive introduction to literary analysis for the purpose of finding deeper meaning in one's everyday reading. One of the central precepts of the book is that there is a universal grammar of figurative imagery, that in fact images and symbols gain much of their power from repetition and reinterpretation. Memory. Symbol. Pattern. These are the three items t
Every reader's experience of every work is unique, largely because each person will experience various elements to differing degrees, and those differences will cause certain features of the text to become more or less pronounced.While this book provides a thorough examination of theme, symbols, and contexts, the author freely admits that it is by no means a complete compilation; one could hardly fit all elements of literary assessment, all interpretations of symbols, or all references to venerable lore into just one book.
And he's here to help.As an English major, I have an intense love for books, obviously, even the classic texts that even I find a little hopeless and empty at times.
Furthermore, even as an English major with an intense love for literature, I am also a teenager, and I am fully aware that not every student in the world particularly wants to spend time reading a book about...books.
But the thing with Foster is that he's funny, and he explains things with a rather dry sense of humor that I find simply wonderful.
While learning a few new secrets of writing, it was exciting to explore all the book titles mentioned in the book.The author uses a casual tone to introduce the magic of serious reading to the reader.
I was nineteen years old and needed to know that when I did not recognize the difference between a he-hussy and a perfumed skunk.I was wondering if a person who never read Shakespeare, told his story, if it can be regarded as a Shakespearean 'borrow' if some elements to it was similar?
How many authors introduced so much magic into my life by presenting amazing characters in their stories.
I think I fell asleep a grand total of three times trying to get through these meager 281 pages.
Foster attempts to be all hip and conversational, but I think he does a pretty bad job of it, and ends up being even more condescending instead.
It's more like a bunch of examples about symbolism here and weather-means-something there, pulled from the same body of work: "In Toni Morrison's Beloved, we see examples of baptism...
He has it all down.I only admired one line in the whole book: "(Shakespeare's) quotes are like members of the opposite sex; all the good ones are taken."Corny, but at least it forced a chuckle out of me.
I was hesitant to read How to Read Literature Like a Professor because I felt that I had not read enough classics to understand what Thomas Foster would be talking about - but then I realized that maybe it was a good idea to read the book before embarking on my literature quest, so I would have some background knowledge heading in.
As a bibliophile and self-proclaimed future English major, I loved learning about irony, allusions, and everything else Foster shared using his casual yet sophisticated writing style.Not a bad book to start out 2012 with.
Foster makes in his well-written How to Read Literature Like and English Professor is trying to make.
The second idea is mind-blowing, if maybe a little over-the-top for me: there's only one story, and all authors are writing different parts of it.
So, since I'm pretty sure I'd have gotten an A or an A- on my Through the Looking Glass paper were I to have submitted said paper to Foster, I'll rate How To Read Literature Like a Professor four stars...Just kidding.
I loved this.Don't get me wrong.
It's not one of those books you could, or would want to, read in one sitting.
It's really more of a reference book, though an enjoyable one, written in a light and breezy style.
I'm not sure someone who wasn't already interested in reading literature on multiple levels would be particularly interested.
But if you do have an interest to read literature in a more sophisticated, insightful way (as I imagine many goodreaders do), you may enjoy this book as much as I did.
You'll never look at weather, heart disease, blindness, geography, or fiction altogether the same way again.
Now that I've read this book, you may as  well not bother trying to read my book  reviews; yes, that's right, I will now  be examining themes and motifs and  character motivation and other things  like that and I'll probably be writing  such amazing stuff that no one else  will be able to understand me.
Like a  professor, right?
No, my days of  "Uh, I liked it" or "Well, I don't know"  are over; I'll be finding things like  water imagery and mother archetypes  and references to obscure lines from  Ulysses.
So if you want to try to  understand even a glimmer of what  I'm writing about, you may need to  read this book, too.
It was waiting a long time for me to pick it up, and it was by no means related to the book not being good.I got this as a refresher mainly, since I left uni 10 years ago and sometimes a little reminder is nice.And I got exactly what I wanted in an easy to read and follow way.I think this book can function as an introduction to literary analysis as well as a fresh up.
There are many examples given and everything is explained in everyday language, without complicated terms.The only thing I should warn about is that it contains a lot of spoilers for literary works.
Foster!!This book serves as a great introduction to some common symbolism to watch out for when reading good lit.
It also introduces the reader to the phenomenon of "intertextuality" - where an author presents something in such a way that it raises echoes of a separate text in your mind.
A good minority of them were familiar too me, and the rest, rather than being annoying, were enough to make me salivate in the contemplation of checking out these texts for myself.The style is conversational, and the auther, an English lit professor after all, admits to his foibles and pretensions in such a likeable and approachable way that the pages fly by.
If you read more than five books a year, you've already learned what Professor Foster has to teach.
And if you're like me, about halfway through you'll start asking yourself: Who wants to read literature like a professor?
Why would anyone want to read literature like a professor?
Coroners with our questions about Death?If you plan on dating, living with or marrying an English Lit professor, this book would be a fine primer on what he does with his day.
If you plan on being graded by an English Lit professor, this book would be a fine overview of her critical standard.
DNFnot in the mood for this book so DNF until I feel like reading it WHICH HOPEFULLY WILL BE SOON
This is a very friendly book and I suspect the author is one of those feel-good professors who attract a lot of students to his classes because they are what is known as "easy A" classes.
I went to an excellent elementary school in the 1960's and we learned all of this there.
The bottom line is that this book will NOT teach you to read literature like a professor.
A professor has a PhD and this is very elementary.
If you hope to read literature like a 5th grader, this is for you.
Otherwise, I'd pass if you are serious about literature.
Personally, I wanted a serious approach and could have stood a little more depth and less hand-holding, but when he gets down to the subject matter, Foster talks knowledgeably and reassuringly to an audience that wants to be culturally literate but suspects they might not be, which I guess includes me.What he does is go through a list of symbols and what they mean and how many, many authors throughout history have used them, and how to spot them as you are reading.
It's a fun activity, and one I will probably find myself doing unconsciously as I read in the future.So did this book make me more culturally literate or a more perceptive reader?
Most of the readers I know who are not English majors, may not have known that term; I didn’t.Foster is a professor of English at the University Michigan at Flint, and teaches classic and contemporary fiction, drama, poetry creative writing and composition.
I didn't finish this book but I read enough and spent enough time on it to count it as read in my opinion.
I can summarize this entire book in one sentence:Know the Bible, know Greek myths, read Homer, and read Shakespeare, then understand common sense and you will figure out what the symbols of things stand for in literature.
I thought this was going to give me some new information but it was things I learned in high school or it is so obvious.
The main thing this book did for me was spoil a bunch of classic literature.
It could have been a little shorter, but it's a great refresher/ introduction into literary themes and symbolism.
It doesn't seem to require professorial level training to me, though I went to university in the UK and this book is very explicitly aimed at people from the US.
Once you get to university, this level of reading is expected.The tone of the book is a little condescending, but otherwise it seems pretty good, anyway.
The allusive nature of it requires quite a wide frame of reference to avoid getting lost and bored, though -- it's hard to learn to see a book in a whole different light when you haven't read it in the first place.
In this book, Foster identifies elements and patterns in literature, such as common symbols and allusions to other works of literature or culture, and demonstrates how they add to a novel's complexity in message.
However, if you're already familiar with the subjects he focuses on and consider yourself an experienced reader (not necessarily a newbie like me), I recommend you at least pick up this book and read pages 185 - 192.
It is inevitable that a great deal of symbolism and many allusions lie in great literature, because authors aren't necessarily imitating previous authors, but presenting their own personal understanding of the world through patterns that readers are familiar with and can relate to.
Therefore, I found it hard to understand exactly what Foster was trying to say through his examples and his connections from one example to another.And I feel like, since this was required reading for my advanced/gifted and talented English IV class, this book would have served as a better introduction to literature and been more helpful, as it has many tips and tricks for recognizing common symbolism and other literary techniques, the connotations of which can be easily missed, if this “non textbook” would have been required for Language Arts in eighth grade or, at least, Freshman English.
Then we are onto something, let's investigate further.This investigative mindset is actually what I really liked about Foster's approach and what I'm definitely going to borrow.
Some of these would be familiar to any avid reader but some were new to me.Finally, there is an exercise with a beautiful (beautiful!) short story by Catherine Mansfield that you can analyze together with the author and his students.I was actually meaning to read something like this for a while - a book that would provoke me to think about whatever I am reading in a more comprehensive and structured way.
So I decided to take upper level English this year, resulting in a mandatory assignment to read this book and create chapter summaries for it.
When I began reading this, I thought it wouldn't be that bad.
I thought to myself early on, "I can do this.
I once read a 660 page book for English.
After about half way through, I began losing my motivation to read.
The book became tedious and was more akin to a workout for my eyes than an experience that would open my mind to a new perspective.
Do you want to read like a Professor? Want to second guess every meal, sex scene, or harmless deformity? Want to perspire heavily while over-analyzing a book you would've otherwise enjoyed? Then this book is for you! All jokes aside this is a pretty interesting read. It sheds some light on commonly used symbols and stories. The idea of intertextuality being an ever present factor in literature seems logical and accurate when Foster brings up examples like The Bible or The Odyssey.In summation: short and informative, a boon read.
Highly enjoyable, accessible (and still educational) book about how to read between the lines, i.e. interprete symbols in literature. Not at all pretentious and, although the examples are mostly from American/English literature, recommended to readers from all literary backgrounds.
The process in which I went through reading this book cannot be described with words.
[To just ...] [Mal go do your homework!][*runs upstairs*] [Picture me staring at the book ...
That's the book.
Hope you don't have to read it, I analyze freaking EVERYTHING NOW.
I fell asleep about a million times and dreaded having to go back and reference because I couldn't remember anything when I realized -- oh gosh I just zombie read through two whole chapters.
Also has anyone noticed his infatuation with Toni Morrison?
If there is one person I never want to read, ever, it's Toni Morrison.
He wants to show us how to apply these ideas so that our deeper understanding of the book will take our enjoyment of it to a new plane.
"Reading literature is a highly intellectual activity, but it also involves affect and instinct to a large degree.
My guess is that as long as people act toward their fellows in exploitative and selfish ways, the vampire will be with us."You can't go wrong with someone who can so easily link vampires with Wall Street.
Algo que en realidad ya había visto en algunas clases y libros sobre la Biblia, Shakespeare, Borges, etc.Lo que acabo de descubrir, es que inconscientemente he puesto muchos de estos símbolos en mi propia escritura (que es mayormente esporádica y para mi consumo privado, totalmente amateur): en un cuento que escribí de un tirón en la secundaria, esa amiga que nos había traicionado se había convertido en un personaje tan descuidado que dejaba que sus gatos jugaran en el piso con su anillo de oro (símbolo del compromiso); otro personaje sexualmente ambiguo había sido nombrado como una canción que pasaban en la radio con el nombre unisex de Jacky; en otro cuento un personaje femenino que queda solo en un mundo despoblado, sale a cazar en compañía de sus perros, y encuentra a otra sobreviviente que trata de dar a luz, y a la que ayuda (en una recreación contemporánea de Diana cazadora).
The conversational tone, humor, and manageable chapters make this an excellent book at showing what students or reading enthusiasts should be looking for in literature to get a deeper understanding and analysis of texts.
He shows what elements make a book distinguished and while he acknowledges that he can't discuss them all, he does give some universal ones that readers can look for while reading.
He shows how to look for common metaphors, themes, historical settings, literary forms, symbols, history of literature, pop culture, and more.
He brings the elements and theory all together at the end in a wonderful analysis of a short story.
