https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9844.Prep
I mean I, too, was a bit self centered and had anxiety when I was in high school but goodness, Lee takes the cake.
The novel takes place over the course of four years of prep school but Lee doesn't change one bit.
Seriously, this is how the novel goes and how Lee reacts to everything and everyone: Someone will tell Lee they like her sweater.
Lee will then ruminate, "She liked my sweater.
Or did she like my sweater because she was being mean and maybe something is wrong with it?
Or maybe it was going to Ault that had turned me into the kind of person who would always, for reasons of schooling, then work, stay away.""When you go to boarding school, you're always leaving your family, not once but over and over and over, and it's not like it is when you're in college because you're older then and you're sort of supposed to be gone from them.
She made me relive the most painful experiences of high school with such honesty that it was hard to believe that she wrote the book as an adult.
Sittenfeld doesn't reduce the experiences or simplify them, the way most shows, novels, and movies about high school do.
How often, as a reader, can one truly say that they understood exactly how something felt?I feel embarrassed even saying this, but I felt that I had to give “Prep” five stars because, to not do so, I would be denying that it affected me in a meaningful way.
This book makes me want to shout at its critics, "you don't have to identify with the protagonist to like the book!--identification isn't the only reason to read!".
But then I want to defend it precisely because it seems so "real." I.e., I identify with it.
Now I say "defend" because the book is marketed as chick-lit (I don't care how much reputable praise you list on the back cover; when there's a pink and green belt cinching your book, you're chick-lit), and I was embarrassed to brandish it on the El. But brandish it I did, because it's an intense, elaborately insightful, and imaginatively structured novel.
I loathed this book, really really hated it.
I kept reading, hoping for the moment when the narrator would stop complaining, stop blaming everyone else for her misery, but the moment never came.
She finished high school, went on with her life, and yet KEPT COMPLAINING about boarding school.
It is easy to take pot shots at New England boarding schools, and at high school in general, but this book lacks any humor and the narrator lacks any self-awareness.
I don't know that I would have liked this book more if I had read it during high school because the author, who comes of as fairly self-righteous in interviews, denies that this book is meant for young adults or "chick-lit" readers.
The book is supposedly narrated by Lee later in her life as she looks back at her prep school days, but there's no perspective on her stupidity or sense that she has developed as a personality or matured in any way in the intervening years.
I'll hand it to Curtis Sittenfeld for creating a believable universe in the prep school setting, but her main character is not a three-dimensional human being.
And look, I know there are plenty of books with unlikeable protagonists, but they usually have interesting personalities or are, you know, active.
There are MANY more who seemed to have enjoyed it than despised it, but the haters were hanging out at the top of the reviews, so that made it seem worse than the reality.Yes, I loved Prep...shoot me.
I always wanted to go to boarding school.
My parents would threaten me with sending me to boarding school when I didn't tow the line and I was always like, 'yes, please!' I should have known better.
Well, unfortunately, I never got to go to prep school, but I still like to fantasize about it from time to time, and this book certainly fit the bill.
This was a huge disappointment to me.
The only other book I have read by this author is Eligible: A Modern Retelling of Pride and Prejudice and I enjoyed that one so much I thought I was in for another treat.
Sadly it was not to be.Although the writing was beautiful and the recounting of life in a boarding school was probably fairly accurate, the main character was seriously unlikeable.
So this author has given me one five star read and one two star (and that is generous).
Of course I will still read her books but with less confidence next time:)
Two stars is way to generous...I read the entire book.
i did not pick up this book because I wanted to read about 4 years of being stuck in a boarding school, that she applied to (But changed her mind).
I thought it was going to be about a girl who climbs her way up the social ladder, makes lot's of friends, generally has a good experience and maybe meets a guy.
The main character grew in almost no way.
Overall, I really don't think this book is worth reading.
Prep chronicles Lee's four years at Ault, starting out as an insecure and lonely freshmen, leaving as a love-sick and angst-ridden senior, and reminding us just how very important all this felt at the time.Coming-of-age stories are hard.
Apart from the boarding school element, reading her story was like revisiting my own high school years, complete with all the heartbreak, angst, and feelings of self-doubt that it entailed.
Lee's decisions are often questionable, her insecurities difficult to reason, and she can often be downright unlikeable, but if we're being honest with ourselves - weren't we all?
She's got a book of collected short stories coming out next year - too long for me to wait - so I decided to give this novel a try.
Much of Lee's experiences are universal, and shared by young adults at any school - the difficulty of finding and keeping friends, maintaining one's grades, and trying to shuffle through those awkward teenage years with one shred of dignity intact.
It is long, and drawn out, with the story evolving at a glacial pace - we experience FOUR YEARS in a young girl's life.
In Prep Curtis Sittenfeld presents an authentic portrait of boarding school life that, for any sane parent at least, should serve as a massive flashing warning sign before sending any child away to school.
Our protagonist Lee Fiora decides to apply to an East Coast boarding school in a fit of precociousness and derring-do at the age of 14.
She leaves her parents and calm Midwestern existence for a more exciting life at Ault School.
If we’re supposed to read this book as chick-lit, it’s ridiculously marketed.
boarding school will fuck you up.
The setting is a boarding school and all that accompanies that, but Prep isn’t about the petty and superficial drama of wealthy teen snobs.
Her keen awareness of the socio-economic differences between her and her high-class schoolmates cripples her, and a large part of the story occurs inside her head as she obsesses over feelings of inadequacy.
Many school stories tell of teen groups shunning certain others, but Prep is different.
I got the sense that Sittenfeld wrote Prep with calculated restraint, understanding that to rush the story would be to risk hitting her reader over the head.Her writing did need some polishing, so I don’t consider Prep expert.
the best way i can describe it is this: you know when you meet someone and after talking for a little while you start to think, wow, this person is JUST like me, we're totally on the same wavelength!
well thats how i felt about the main character.i would have given the book a higher rating -- because the author does an AMAZING job of recreating that angsty, self-conscious, dreary wasteland known as the high school years -- but i was so annoyed with the ending.
The book reminded me a bit of when I went to college in upstate NY.But, at the same time, the main character was frustrating.
But this character was always complaining about how much she hated the school she went to and expressing frustration, but NOT TAKING ANY ACTION.And the whole "romance" part?
When you are stuck in the head of someone boring, annoying or frustrating or all three and you just can't squirm out of it because it won't switch to another more interesting narrator who is doing things besides being passive and just letting her life happen without trying to steer it.I keep bathroom reading this book.
What I believe this book portrayed was the angst-ridden judgement and insecurities felt by a less wealthy prep schooler...completely maximized in a way that stereotypes students at prep schools and the emotions that lie inside a teenage mind.While this book was an extremely quick read, therefore proving that it wasn't so painful that you put it down completely, the main character remained fairly unchanged in her views, and even in retrospect, lacked the ability to see that by judging those around her, she had pigeon-holed herself.What many people believe, in real life, I have found, is that those who attended the elite boarding schools of America are rich, ungrateful, spoiled and unlikeable people.
I recently read this for an encyclopedia entry I was writing on post-2000 coming-of-age novels, so my assessment, I fear, isn't really fair.
That doesn't mean the book sticks with me or changed my life in any drastic way---and isn't that what we crave from a novel?
I guess the lesson I learned from writing the entry is that WAY too many of us authors (if I may call myself that) go the C-of-Age route early in life.
You know, I started out really liking this book.
I thought the writing was good, and I found myself really relating to the protagonist as I used to have many of the same tendencies (not really involving myself in things and instead just hanging out on the fringes of life).
But then about halfway through, the book just turned craptastic.
But it just ruined the book for me.
All the reviews raved about how this was Catcher in the Rye from a girl's perspective.
Don't buy into it; there's nothing extraordinary about this book.
(I'm assuming you've already read Catcher in the Rye, right?
At 13 she decides to apply to East Coast Prep schools and winds up spending an angst-ridden four years at Ault School just outside of Boston, Mass.("How was I supposed to understand, when I applied at the age of thirteen, that you have your whole life to leave your family?")This is the story of EVERYTHING that goes on inside her head.
And this outsider believed herself to be "a petty, angry, impotent person."Lee outlines her memories by grade level, (freshman, sophomore, junior, senior) and focuses on major and minor events shaping each year.
Reviewed by Amanda Dissinger for TeensReadToo.comWalking through the typical young adult section of a bookstore, there are usually five, maybe even ten, books about a teenage girl, perhaps from a small town, who transfers from that wee little town to a prep school.
Seeing the plot of Curtis Sittenfeld's PREP for the first time, a normal reader would write it off as being another cliché prep school book.
PREP is a searing, creative look at the life of one small-town girl, Lee Fiora, who comes from her home in South Bend, Indiana, to Ault, a prep school in Massachusetts.
Instead the book is horribly lopsided, Sittenfeld spends three hundred pages having the protagonist shuffle around feeling awkward and passing judgment on everything she sees followed by a hundred pages of high school events where Lee learns nothing.
I can’t imagine why the sullen, awkward, hypercritical girl isn’t everyone’s best friend!The final 100 pages of the novel is mostly concerned with Lee’s relationship with Cross Sugarman (yes, Sittenfeld really does love overly-romantic names) who almost holds her hand at the book’s beginning and who she stalks for the next three years.Sittenfeld is clearly drawing on two sources: The Great Gatsby and The Catcher in the Rye. Yet she fails to realize what makes either great.
This reread (number three) felt new because this time I am in love, and that influence of being-in-love totally enhanced my reading — surprisingly it pulled me closer to Lee and reminded me, over and over, what I've learned from her, this time and all other times.I love this book.
Best decision I've ever made.Prep hits me in places I'm not entirely sure I like being hit, but I always feel better afterwards for it--catharsis at its best, I think.
b) Her observations about social interactions are relateable to real-life ones and therfore very believable e.g. about the African-american student's advice about black kids around white rich people c) the main character goes to my alma mater, and that's about where I don't understand....b/c I've never met any prepschoolers at my alma mater, and the book makes it sound like my school is some second tier toss-up alternative, b/c all the prep schoolers would not be interested in attending it.
i hated the main character after the first chapter, and really could have cared less what happened to her. i have a hard time liking books where i can't find redeeming qualities in the characters i'm supposed to care about. also, i agree with the author's parents that the last chapter should have been cut. i might have liked it better then.
And with that it was hard for me to write a review, and during the reading, her complexities had my thoughts about her, and the book, going up and down, good to bad.
The reason this book may be hard to read is because for women, it may be all too real, too raw, to recall life as a teenage girl.
Emotions are high, moods switch instantly, and that was reflected in the writing and the plot.Lee is endearing, shy, careful, rude, nosey, aloof, spontaneous, lazy, premeditated, mean, loving, and hormonal all wrapped into one person.
After turning the last page, my exact words were "That's it?"I wasted a week of my life on a book that did nothing save leave me with the bitter taste of a girl, similar to myself, who (view spoiler)[gets used by her crush for a game of sexual conquest, ruins every potential relationship she might have, ultimately ends up alone and unsuccessful, and doesn't learn a thing throughout the entire process.
This is a book that I desperately wanted Imprint X to buy, back when I read it under its original, cleverer title (CIPHER).
Nearly two years later, it was finally published in hardcover by "little Random."The new title doesn't do the book any favors; it underlines the superficial side of the story.
What the original title, CIPHER, reflected was that the novel is really about Lee's struggle to learn how to present herself to others.
Particularly in the earlier sections of the book (corresponding to Lee’s freshman and sophomore years), her desperation and frustration are palpable, excruciatingly real.
This book kept me entertained enough during my six hour delay at Logan despite the somewhat tedious subject matter (life for an "outsider" at a New England prep school).
Because this book has to be about something other than the brazenly self-indulgent lives of rich kids at rich kid camp, naturally the socially awkward and neurotic narrator of Prep is at this richy Massachusetts school on (gasp!) scholarship.
The writing makes for an easy read and, as a socially awkward neurotic myself, I was occasionally impressed by descriptions of internal thought processes (this book really spoke to me).
This book is on my nerves.
I'm going to give it my best and try to finish the last 150 or so pages but I may tear each page out one at a time and burn it as I read it.011510.
Finally finished!!!
This one almost made it to my "couldn't finish" list but I made it!Lee has zero growth throughout the entire book until the last 50 pages, when she actually becomes interesting only because she becomes controversial.
If only the book had started within the last 100 pages and continued from there, it may have had some hope.
I relate well to Lee. We are similar in a lot of ways, but the book had no real plot.
I also didn't like how Sittenfeld made Little Washington a stereotypical black person, though Little had made it into a preppy boarding school.
I also didn't like how she separated races so much.
Seperated the latina's and the black people ect.
Barely concealing that to fit in the bording she created for this book you had to be white.
In fact she made all people of different races stereotypical, and that bothered me a lot.
