https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40611380-firefly-summer
Patrick has two children named Grace and Kerry who also end up impacting the Ryan family in a lot of ways as well.
I also kept getting people mixed up here and there, but just went with it because I wasn't in the mood to go back and re-read where they first got introduced.I will say that my favorite characters in this would be Kate Ryan and Rachel Fine.
Rachel Fine I found to be a complex character who I really wanted to tell her to just be done with Patrick O'Neil.
This book was excruciatingly slow in the beginning, quite interesting and fun in the middle, and then quite abrupt and melodramatic at the end. It's as if she didn't know how to end the book so she just had a huge catastrophe happen and then bang, it was over. Definitely my least favorite Maeve Binchy so far.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Thoroughly enjoyed my time spent in the lives of the people of a small village-Mountfern- in Ireland. The novel spans about 4 years starting from the time Patrick O'Neill from the U.S. comes to Mountfern in search of a connection with his heritage as he rebuilds a ruined castle/manor as a luxury hotel. The wealthy Patrick & his children impact nearly all the villagers and their livelihoods insome way. I could so see myself conversing & enjoying friendship with many of the characters especially the wonderful Rachel.
Most of her novels, including this one, are set in Ireland in the mid-20th century and have a slew of well developed characters.“Firefly Summer” spans four years in the 1960s and focuses on what happens to a small town when an American millionaire (with his two teen children and former mistress in tow) comes in to build a huge hotel.
There is a whole town full of characters, yet you get to know each one and have no trouble keeping them straight, which I often find challenging in novels with so many people.I will admit I lost several hours of much-needed sleep toward the end of this book.
I wanted to read a Maeve Binchy book and picked this one off the library shelf because it had the neatest title. : ) I almost quit reading after the first chapter because Binchy's punctuation is random at best, but I kept reading and ended up enjoying the book pretty well. Binchy creates a huge cast of amazingly real and quirky characters who populate a small Irish town and then shows all the effects that ripple through their lives and relationships when a rich American comes to build a hotel there. A good vacation read.
There is not masses of plot in the book; rather, it builds a picture of Irish village life in the 1950s as we spend a few years with the family of Ryans who own the public house.Maeve Binchy's books are incredibly easy reading - a little old-fashioned and incredibly gossipy.
It genuinely feels as though a friend is having a coffee with you and telling you about mutual friends' lives.I like the fact that Binchy doesn't flinch away from presenting the horrors of a mundane life - those issues that anyone could be afflicted by, such as adultery, alcoholism and disability.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:In Binchy's 1987 novel, an American moves his family to the rural Irish town of Mountfern
Maeve Binchy never disappoints. I loved this book.
Classic Binchy and a great slice of Irish small town life.Reading a Maeve Binchy book is like sitting down with an old friend over a cup of tea and I was saddened to hear of her recent passing.
Like the best of her books, this one is thick and yet goes down as easily as pie, the length is what makes it good, and you never want it to end.
Although it's a tough choice, I think this is my favorite Binchy book, and I've read most of them. Her unique gift to juggle many points of view in a novel is particularly impressive in this book. Date I finished this book is impossible to say, as I've read it so many times. (I've never read a Binchy book just once.)
I read this book many years ago and remember loving it and also sobbing in parts! I just read on USA Today's site that Maeve Binchy passed just today from a brief illness. We have lost such a wonderful story teller, but are blessed for having known her books--she will be missed!
I loved this book! Such a great story!
I really liked this book. It was hard to put it down because there was so much going on and I found myself caught up in all the characters. For people who like her books I would recommend this one.
Here's what I thought about the Characters:Kerry O'NeillI don't know what is wrong with this kid. He's so unbelievingly spoiled narcissist person. Sometimes I feel like want to slap him.Patrick O'NeillStill can't decide whether to hate or like him. He's a hard man to like, yet I can't hate him just like that.Kate RyanI love Kate, she loves her family more than anything. She is even willing to do anything for her fam.
I don't know why I keep reading Maeve Binchy books. A ton of nonsense told in a very long and drawn out way, then a dumb ending. I have one more to read and then that is it!! Seriously, 768 pages to get to that ending. You have got to be kidding me.
I read this long book in 2 days...ok, I was flying back from Europe, but I couldn't put it down. Loved everything about it! Has a great heroine and an evil villain for sure!!
I doubt I will finish this book. I don't need to read Maeve Binchy again.
I have read and reread this book and I enjoy it every time I go back to it. There aren't many books that I read more than once.
Excellent book, with 645 pages! Didn't want it to end!
I like this well enough, but it isn't one that stands out in my mind.
I usually choose to read Maeve Binchy's novels as comfort reads.
Together with his children and Rachel they bring into the village a need to find a way between change and custom; money making and maintaining traditional businesses and practices; and cultural differences.
To me, some aspects of the storyline did not fit together smoothly, and it seemed as though Binchy was less at home with depicting the conflicts between an American dream than the Irish aspirations that furnish much of the material in her other novels.
It is possible that this novel aspired to be a broader look at American/Irish relations when those forced to move to America (or Australia) return.
I very much enjoy living in a tiny Irish village in my mind while I read Binchy's books.The book has plenty of characters, and most are well-developed.
Certainly a lot happened - there was no lack of plot - but at times it felt too drawn out.
He was there to make the point that Dara was so dazzled by Kerry O'Neill that she couldn't see anyone else, but we didn't need to be told that twenty times.
I've read most of Binchy's books and if I find others I haven't seen yet, I'll read those as well.
This is my first Maeve Binchy novel.
The book begins in 1962 and covers four years of the lives of inhabitants of a small village called Mountfern in Ireland, particularly the changes that occur after a millionaire American whose family was originally from Mountfern appears and plans to build a hotel on land where his family previously lived.
I definitely recommend Firefly Summer, and I intend to read more of Maeve Binchy's work in the future.
It was a summer of love that would never come again...a time that has been captured forever in Maeve Binchy's compelling family drama.
Now realising it is one of her earliest, it explains why I didn't love it - I think this was when she was still honing the craft she became beloved for.The book is too long, with too many characters and sub-plots, too much focus on some elements and not enough on others.
The time spent on the teenagers' love stories could have been cut in half similarly without affecting the storyline, nor the nostalgia we all feel at remembering first love.I felt this was a book I 'had to finish', rather than the usual Binchy 'un-put-downable' tale.
I'm taking this as an early stab at the long satisfying tales of her later books, and will continue my dipping in.
All of these themes are interwoven into a story of a small Irish town and it's residents.
The Ryan family are the central characters, they own a pub located near an old ruined manor.
A rich American, Patrick O'Neil, whose family once worked in the ruins moves to the sleepy town of Mountfern with the intention of building the Manor to its former glory.
Patrick and his children have an impact on every resident and aspect of life in the town.
The building of the new hotel at the ruins creates jobs, opportunities and also tragedy.
Very long but interesting yarn about a wealthy Irish-American man who comes back in the 1960s to his ancestral home out of which his forebears were burned during the Irish Civil War in 1922 in order to build a destination resort hotel that will cater to people like him: Americans nostalgic for their imagined Irish roots.
It is hard to imagine Binchy being much clearer about her disdain for Yanks who pretend to be Irish.
Oh well, in any event, a good read for Binchy fans (this was my first foray into her oeuvre, but won't be my last), and not a bad choice if you want a nice, long read that is not too challenging but immerses you in another world.
Loved it.
I loved them quirks and all.
The story was long and involved with everyone’s life and I couldn’t wait to see who was next up in the gossipy little village of mountfern.
Such a true depiction of small town life.
Everyone in each other’s business and always waiting for the next new story and yet together in times of need.
I hated the end just like everyone else.
I want to know how their lives turn out.
I put a lot of time into this book and now I don’t know who ends up where.
Will grace still want Michael?
I picked up this Maeve Binchy novel as one of my summer reads, and I certainly wasn't disappointed.
There are a lot of characters, but most of them are quite well differentiated - there's the central family the Ryans, their children, all the other children in the village, the American group, and all the parents and other obvious types in the village like the priests, the postmistress, the doctor, etc.
Binchy gives them all characters as well as jobs/roles, and they interact in interesting ways with each other.
Very disappointed with this book.
So many trivial details that made the book drag.
It seems the only reason Dara and Michael are in love with the O'Neill kids i because they look physically beautiful.
Omg. What as up with Grace towards the end?
I wish there was more about Eddie.
I wish he'd gone and become a great person and made everyone shut up.
Dara and Michael are very unfair to him throughout the book.
I wish there was a happy ending for Fergus.
I wish Kerry wasn't such an asshole.
Bref, so many wishes but such a disappointing ending.
