https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7018257-the-red-hawk
THE RED HAWK manages to end the trilogy on a good note, though it never explains why the narrator can recall his past and future lives.
For me, that angle was probably the most intriguing thing about the first two MOON books, and I was rather annoyed to find that, here, Burroughs just drops the whole concept entirely, as though hoping that no one would notice his complete failure to resolve the one overarching thread that joins this trilogy together.Apart from that major complaint, however, THE RED HAWK is actually surprisingly good.
After nearly 500 years of Kalkar rule, the rebellion started by Julian the 9th has continued and the Kalkars are now clinging to a portion of California, fighting to avoid being pushed into the sea and thereby falling off the Earth.
The novel is very short; it reads almost like a Western - Burroughs wrote a few Western romances as well - and ends with the pure bred Julian line marrying the pure bred Ortis line.
and all is right again.The significance of the trilogy lies in Burroughs ability to suggest a future that, while alarming, is certainly plausible.
The trilogy makes for a good read.
A fitting end to one of my favorite series by Mr. Burroughs!
The conclusion of Burroughs’ ‘The Moon Maid’ takes us centuries into the future from the time of ‘The Moon Men’ where the Kalkars have been wiped almost from the face of America.
The obstacle to their love is that she is the sister of the Or-Tis, leader of the Kalkars.The Red Hawk prevails, the Kalkars are driven out and it is discovered that Or-Tis and his family have no evil Kalkar blood, but are genetically American.‘The Moon Maid’ was originally written (or at least the ‘Moon Men’ section) set in a future America under the rule of Communists.
Again, this book is much different from the first two, taking place 300 years after the Moon Men. We find Julian 20 living in a tribal situation much like a native American tribe.
In such a short book ERB does an incredible amount of world building.
The Julians worship the American flag like a god.
There are so many wonderful little elements in this book and yet it still offers the action adventure ERB is so famous for.
It also contains an appropriate ending to the Julian/ Ortis blood feud begun in the first book of the trilogy.
I highly recommend this trilogy if you like ERB's better known classics
I think Burroughs was getting tired of this series and pretty much just phoned in this novella. The protagonist is dull witted and prejudiced. His tribe is fighting a fascist government, yet enslaves other natives, too. When presented with a peace plan by his arch nemesis, he summarily rejects it, his bloodlust is so keen. This story could have been so much more; it's more like an outline than a true story.
A contrived and silly conclusion to Burroughs' Moon series. Was he in a hurry to resolve this story? Ugh!The Moon Men is one of Burroughs' best. Yes, I know he likes to wrap up all of his stories in a happy ending. It's one of the things I really like about him. But it's a really poor ending to a pretty good first and an amazing second book in the trilogy.Very disappointing. At least it's really short. So short it's included at the back of The Moon Men paperback.Arg!
This is clearly a series of books for the SF fan. Invasion from the Moon that last for centuries. I was thrilled by them as a teenager. I loved them again a few years ago. I really have enjoyed Edgar Rice Burroughs writings all of my life.
More like 2.5 stars. This book had a different feel to it, than do other ERB books, but a very similar plotline. As the end of a series, it left much to be desired, but overall, I didn't like this series as much as I did others, anyway, so meh.
I found the conclusion to the Moon Maid trilogy to be somewhat disappointing. Taking place generations following the thrilling second novel, the dramatic finish I expected was somewhat lacking. It's pretty rare when the second book of a trilogy is the highlight!
A good finish to the trilogy. Burroughs is always a great action filled read. Recommended
Dystopian future meets wild west meets medieval romance. Some really scary views on 'blood'.
read some time in summer 1974
Hopeful ending of the trilogy. A bit predictahble. Not bad but i definately prefer the barsoom series.
