https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13137.1st_to_Die
How in the world is he a best-selling author?
His characters are shallow, his writing is mediocre, and when he writes about romance it feels mechanical and formulaic.
I haven't read any of his other books and don't plan to now.
When you have as little time for leisure reading as I do, you waste as little time as possible reading crap.Also, he uses too much vulgarity and too much sex.
It isn't even romantic sex; it's cheap.I recommend this book only to people who have already read every other book in the world and would rather read something they haven't read then reread a good book.
Am I the only one that thinks that "Women's Murder Club" sounds not only hokey but juvenile and begging mockery?The story: a psycho serial killer begins murdering newly married couples.
Patterson's handling of the female characters and their relationships with each other were stilted, forced, and lacked nuance from beginning to end.
I get the impression that Patterson does not truly grasp how women operate, and how their relationships develop.As for the plot itself, well, it was vaguely diverting, but not much more.
I love books in which the female characters are young, put-together, strong, successful...I think what is the most disappointing about this book is that there is SO MUCH unrealized potential.
His chapters are so brisk you'll find your self half-way through the book before you know it.
And as you approach the end of Patterson's 1st to Die, you breath of sigh of relief, only until the last page where Patterson chucks another twist at you, you nearly fall out of your seat in cardiac arrest!
Never have I read a novel with a final twist so near the end of the book I can't help but applaud Patterson for being so clever.
Slabo je poznata činjenica da sam prva dovela Patersonove knjige u Srbiju...
i bila sam godinama urednik njegovih knjiga za različite izdavače...
:) Od svih raznovrsnih njegovih knjiga i serijala ovaj mi je najdraži, koji sam uporno "gurala" godinama...
Ovde ne možemo pričati o "velikoj" književnosti ali zato možemo govoriti o pravom kvalitetnom komercijalnom autoru, koji vas uhvati i ne pušta od početka do kraja svake knjige...
čak i one koju biste ocenili sa samo dve ili tri zvezdice...
:) I možete pročitati i po tri knjige zaredom i tražiti još...
Zato on piše i po 8 naslova godišnje...
I tend to read Patterson's books when I don't want my brain to work that hard. 1st to Die fits that bill perfectly. I loved the concept of a group of extraordinary females - including a detective, a lawyer, and a journalist - working together to solve crimes. It was an easy to read, page-turning thriller featuring a complicated, gruesome killer of newly-weds, and more twists and turns than a twisty turny thing.
While I greatly enjoyed this and the next 2 books in the Women's Murder Club series, I was unable to continue reading the series with the same enjoyment due to comments that Patterson himself made in regards to it.
He basically said that they were crap, that he just wrote them because he knew that they would sell, and he basically made me feel as if by reading them, and enjoying them, he was belittling me.
Hard to enjoy work from an author who condescends to write for 'the masses'.
Each of the four women was described in terms of her profession and ethnic background--sassy Black woman medical examiner with a faithful musician husband, sleek, sophisticated put-upon woman DA who gets no respect from her male superiors, perky newspaper reporter whose risk-taking allows her to get the scoops that more seasoned newspaper people are afraid to go after, and, of course, our depressed, troubled, obsessed main character who gets her life back just to lose everything and speaks in cliches throughout the narrative.
I wonder if the TV show is any better?
If so, it's only because some decent writers turned the script into something better than this book.
I was curious about this series because it's obviously very popular, but I can't say I'm terribly impressed by it. First of all, the sappy "you go girl" female characters didn't seem very true to life to me. Patterson seems to think that name-checking Sarah McLachlan and Tori Amos, plus a lot of hugging and randomly saying "I love you, girl", means he has created believable female characters. Not so much. Also, I thought the plot was melodramatic, and the continual twists were more tedious than shocking or surprising.
The first James Patterson book I ever read, and one of the best I read this year.
It has exceeded my expectations.
Honestly I didn't know serial killer novels could be this fun.
The plot revolves around a serial killer who targets newlyweds at their wedding night, and it's up to the homicide inspector, Lindsay Boxer to track him down.
However, in order to do that she needs the help of her friends in the women's murder club (Claire Washburn, Cindy Thomas, and Jill Bernhardt).
Together they work hard in order to bring the killer to justice before he strikes again.
No thanks.By page 45 I decided I hated James Patterson writing women.
The head of the homicide division and the chief medical examiner of San Francisco are disgusted, sickened, and “have to turn away” from a body.
And I don’t normally notice these things but the man used the word, “chilling” so many times that, not only did I notice, but was really annoyed by it.
Would a homicide investigator, coroner, prosecutor, and reporter who were male have to create a “club” and name it something so hokey?
Again, I think it goes back to Patterson’s inability to write women with any realism or truth.
I love love love James Patterson, he's my new favorite author. His writing style is great, easy to read and fast. He explains things so you understand but without making you feel stupid. His characters are well developed in this series and are entertaining. Another thing I love, his chapters are very very short so you can always get to a good stopping place!
This is an audio book that I listened to many, many years ago.
I remember that I loved it so much that I listened to the entire series back to back, or at least up until the point where I had to wait for the next one to come out.
This was published in 2002 and I own all of them on Audible audio books.
I didn't remember the intricate twists and turns it takes all the way up to the very end.
I'm on to the second one, 2nd Chance.Now about this book.
Done and done." Perhaps his use of ghostwriters who write stories about characters they didn't envision doing things that someone else has imagined and outlined is what causes this flatness.
While I admire James Patterson's apparent marketing genius and entrepreneurial spirit in creating book outlines and farming out the actual storytelling and writing to other authors, he is now really just a brand cranking out books at breakneck speed.
And he's right that his writing/outlines do appeal to a certain type of reader who wants a fast-paced read that doesn't require heavy lifting.
It's pure junk food, and I mean that as a compliment insofar as processed food is very highly engineered by very skilled workers to be universally appealing to the widest possible market.Patterson -- a top advertising exec before his writing career -- seems to have decided that in addition to his bestselling Alex Cross novels and film adaptations, he needed a series that appealed to women and television.
They have complicated love lives and health problems and career setbacks for background color!It's a sign of Patterson's professionalism that he doesn't make you feel like a market segment while you're actually reading.
Oh god - I really hated the first book I read of Patterson's, but I'd read about the Women's Murder Club TV series, and thought it sounded kind of cool, so I wanted to try the books.
I'm about half way through, and this is pretty awful so far, in the same way as the previous book I read.
At least it's a quick read.***Skimmed my way frantically through the second half of the book in order to finish it.
Awful, awful stuff - Patterson is an incredibly bad writer.
I felt embarrassed to be reading this on the train, in case someone was reading over my shoulder.
It is quite insipid and irritating, in fact.If you watch crime procedurals as much as I do, firstly, you need to stop, it is unhealthy, but secondly and more importantly, you'll be able to figure this out quite fast.
Lindsay has way too many problems, way too much baggage, and why Patterson wants to make the poor woman suffer more, is beyond me.
Look, I didn't read this book to trash it, truthfully.
Then, by all means, lose yourself in the book.
Or maybe just lose the book.
4-1/2 Stars!It’s been a few years since I’ve read James Patterson. I considered myself a fan in the past but then I felt disappointed after reading Zoo, so I took a break. The Women’s Murder Club series ended up being a good choice for me. This is the Patterson I remember loving to read. Suspenseful and unpredictable.
It helps with audio versions when the chapters are short and pithy, as these definitely were.This book is the first in the Woman's Murder Club series.Inspector Lindsay Boxer of the San Francisco Police Department suddenly finds herself in the middle of two horrifying situations: The first is that she's just learned she has an often-fatal blood disease.
I have recently posted a much better review on my blog!-If you are reading this then write in the comments which fictional book character you would've hated to babysit you as a kid.I'd choose Camie from The A-List series because she probably would've called me names and had strange guys over while babysitting!Also, since you are an awesome individual who likes to spread joy, check out my blog post for 1st to Die by James Patterson (SPOILERS). (It only takes three minutes to read and a fraction of a second to click on the link) Here's the link https://thereadrose.blog/2018/09/11/r...
And I thought this would make a good read.
It seems Mr.Patterson has read a way lot of Agatha Christie and had confusions on whether the ideas are his or someone else's and finally decides to write books before the conclusion of those idea's origins and ignoring their quintessentiality in their real storylines.
I didn't like the narrative style which is weird and annoying sometimes, and the author thinks the book is narrated by a woman (thought, I'm not a woman), but trust me this ain't the way a woman speaks, but at least for women with such credentials.
It goes to show that we as readers evolve, meaning that we as individuals evolve; we grow older and our taste in books change, which is a good thing.
I gave this book 5 stars when I first read it, 15 years ago, now, well, I still like it, but I'm not so impressionable anymore; I do find flaws with it.For instance, the insanity of the murders, and what's behind it, is rather flimsy.
Foremost, I want to know how these ladies grow in their careers, so yes I look forward reading the rest of the books.
i was having a hard time to focus on the first few chapter .. but things change after i read through half of the book . james patterson is an auto buy author for me . i felt every struggle the heroines went through in this book .. this is a must read series ..
Esta historia es muy atrapante, tanto que no quieres soltar el libro porque quieres saber qué es lo que sucede a continuación.
La verdad es que engancha de muchas maneras: la historia está muy bien, los personajes también; en este primer libro de “El club de las mujeres contra el crimen” el personaje más desarrollado es el de Lindsay Boxer, la policía; y, por otra parte, los capítulos son cortísimos por lo que te anima a seguir y seguir leyendo; además, la intriga se mantiene hasta el final del libro.
Muy recomendable.
I almost gave it 4-stars, as there are some subplot development issues (the main character, Lindsay, developed well as a character, but has a lot of things that happen out of the main plot that do not directly relate, but don't exactly take away - Patterson is trying to add more emotional, real-life appeal to the novel).
Overall I loved it!The book has a lot of suspense is a very quick read!
Lindsay is trying to catch a "bride and groom" pyschopath killer while dealing with issues of life.
Then, the ending is - killer.Read it and continue on into the next books in the series!
For me James Patterson can be a hit or a miss.
On this occasion 1st to Die was a hit.Typical of the James Patterson format, short chapters, strong plot, fast paced and more twists and turns than you can poke a stick at.
To be honest, there was probably too many twists and turns.
And of coarse once is not enough.It was good that James Patterson made the movers and shakers in this tale female.
A poke in the eye to the dominant male hierarchy.
Oh that was excellent! I really enjoy James Patterson 's style, short chapters, fast paced storyline, and characters I can relate to. This book even had a nice little romance even if it did end sadly. I loved the way I knew who the killer was, then I didn't and then right at the last minute when I thought it was all done and dusted back came yet another killer. Fantastic. I look forward to reading the rest of this series.
I feel bad reviewing James Patterson books.
At least, I feel like I'm bad at reviewing them.
The characters and writing don't.It's remarkable to find 126 chapters (and an epilogue) in a book this short.
None of the emotional drama or big decisions feel earned.That brings us to the writing, which can easily be confused with "sentences" and how elaborate or clever they are, but it's really not: it's the means by which the story gets conveyed.
It's a bit like watching a soap opera, but those often had loads of time to get characters from one state to another.
4 stars.
All a bit silly, but it just about kept me reading.I haven't read any James Patterson since I got sick of Alex Cross twenty years ago.
So I thought I'd give this a try and see if he'd changed at all.He hasn't.Same old Patterson: Very short chapters of two pages, so you don't get bored; One dimensional characters, ridiculous plots, too many twists...I won't go on.Patterson shouldn't have a female protagonist because he is so soppy it makes you sick at times.
Why bother with detectives if three women can solve the case over wine and chocolate cake?I won't be reading any more in the series.
It is really hard to rate this book since it seems that this is a mix of cheesiness and cliche but it is also unpredictable and thrilling. It has some terrible parts but there are also amazing parts.Pros:1. I love the title 1st to die and my assumption to who will be the "1st to die" is wrong so I guess that is a plus point for the book.2. I really like the murder scenes it is very grotesquely describe that it made me shiver just imagining them.3. The twist in the end about who's the true murde
It is really hard to rate this book since it seems that this is a mix of cheesiness and cliche but it is also unpredictable and thrilling.
Even the Women's Murder Club thingy felt a little bit push, it is just there for the sake of a bad ass title for the series but it is really lazily written.
There was blood all over the sink."--What I mean is that this is really cliche when you watch those drama series on tv, you'll always have this scene.4.
The romance is a bit cheesy too, especially at the beginning of the book.
