https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64397.A_Stainless_Steel_Rat_is_Born
Harrison breathes some new life into the Stainless Steel Rat series by going back to Slippery Jim’s beginnings.
Prequels must have been a fairly new phenomenon in the mid-1980s, as the author feels the need to explain them in a foreword.
How times have changed—now we have all kinds of numbering orders and it feels quite normal.Going back to Jim’s genesis was an inspired idea.
Harrison must have blasted these books out quickly and for fun, between other projects (or whenever he needed to top up the bank account).
195 of my science fiction & fantasy reading project.
Simple, easy to read. Nothing outstanding or deep. But if you are looking for a mickey spillane style non-brain burning old scifi, then the Rat series is for you. Very little character development yet and pretty much this book was the same story told three times.  Get into trouble, fight a bit, run away, hide, come back for revenge. x 3
З цієї книжки може вийти непоганий серіал або навіть фільм. Історія не є глибокою, однак динамічною. Протагонгіст не встигає відійти від недавніх подій, як втрапляє у нові. Воно й не дивно - це життя людини, яка порушує закон.
Jimmy Bolivar diGriz is a smart and ambitious 17-year-old who feels trapped and inhibited on the backward planet of Bit O' Heaven where his parents are porcuswine farmers.
That's why we meet Jimmy robbing a bank and purposely getting caught on his 17th birthday.Unfortunately, prison is nothing like what Jim was expecting; it's full of losers.
Jim knows he must escape prison, find The Bishop, and become his apprentice.A Stainless Steel Rat is Born is a great addition to the Stainless Steel Rat series.
I see now that he was showing the transition from Jimmy diGriz, son of porcuswine farmers, into The Stainless Steel Rat. Nicely done, Mr. Gigante!
The books showed a bright guy trying to break rules and help himself to money which he reckoned he was earning by ingenuity.
This teen-suitable book introduces a seventeen year old lad on a backwards pork farming planet, though as you can imagine farming porcuswine isn't that easy given their size, ferocity and porcupine quills.
Jim wants more out of his life than his parents are able or inclined to provide.
An interesting twist sees Jim on a slaver planet, not enjoying life, and feeling responsible for an elderly father figure.
Always nice to become acquainted with our hero's humble past. Jim wasn't born a rat, but had to discover how to become one through tutelage and loss. By purposefully landing himself in jail, Jim tries to learn from his fellow crooks but realizes only the best rats never get caught. Unfortunately, Jim accidently reveals the secret whereabouts of the most infamous and much-sought-after rat, in an attempt to show off his skills to said master rat. Now, he not only has to save his own skin but that of his new master.
As Janice and I were leaving, she was telling me what a great spoof it was on the Stainless Steel Rat books by Harry Harrison.
Jimmy figures the best way to flush him out is to commit a crime and make it look like the old guy did it.He does, and meets him in an unusual scene and they end up having some very interesting adventures.
He is one who lives outside the rules of everyone else and as such it is a lonely life but a rewarding one.At first I had some issues with the philosophy of the Rat, but in the end I felt comfortable with the way Harrison justifies what Jimmy has become.
I have fond memories of this series from my high school days. If I recall, this wasn't the best of the bunch so I'll continue my trip down memory lane. This short book had a lot of the strut and attitude I remember liking. I find the main character to be fun and cheeky in a satisfying way. His distaste for killing and roguish nature still amuses. The writing is rough sometimes and it has these maddening sentence fragments that drive me up the wall. Neither overshadow the compelling elements. I guess voice wins.

A very good origin story, with all the standard bits (mentor, daring escape, lessons learned). The beginning was better than the end, which was just okay. Also not as high-tech as the other stories.
Another in the stainless steel rat books. They are all quick reads with alot of humor in them. The stories remain fresh and new. Very recommended, especially to teen readers or someone new to SiFi
A Stainless Steel Rat is Born (1985) 219 pages by Harry HarrisonA prequel to the other Stainless Steel Rat books, this tells of the origin of Jim diGriz becoming a metaphorical rat in the concrete and uniformly drab society of the 25th century.The story starts with Jim as a 17 year old, robbing a bank, and intentionally trying to get caught.
During this action he tells of his formative years, Judo lessons, shoplifting, the worthlessness of school, until he trains to become a locksmith.
Maybe he read too much Count of Monte Cristo type stories, but his intention was to further his training in his chosen field, becoming a criminal.
И дълбоко, под тази яка черупка, зад маската на корав тип с ампутирана съвест, дреме златно сърце, което често подтиква към неохотно забъркване в чужди неприятности и дори евентуална саможертва.Как да не ги обичаш, нашите сай-фай анти-герои и космически каубои?Но има един, може би не толкова известен като гореизброените, но определено заслужаващ свое място в пантеона (а защо не и екранизация!) – предшественик на днешните популярни физиономии, едно старо куче...
Е, може би не точно куче, по-скоро плъх!
Да, говорим за героя на покойния Хари Харисън - Джеймс Боливар ди Гриз, познат още като Хлъзгавия Джим или Стоманения плъх.
I first read the rat books when I was in high school (the first time around).
One of my students was reading The Stainless Steel Rat for President, and when I found a few of the others in my bookshelf, I was reminded of how much I enjoyed the book the first time around.
The Bishop's character is charming, but there's almost  too  much camaraderie between the two; one would expect that the Bishop would be far more careful in getting himself involved with a 17-year-old, no matter how brilliant.Altogether, a light and easy read, but don't expect anything more than that!
I regard myself as an overall fan of the sci-fi genre, so I picked up this book in my teens expecting to be pleased by the contents.
I quickly discovered that all sci-fi is not created equal.
The main character struck me as one of those uber-masculine idealisations of the author, inserted into the story.
I don't have such high expectations of other genres, so perhaps I'm being unfair.
But the two-dimensional portrayal of the main character was enough to put me off, even setting genre expectations aside.Unfinished.
I enjoyed The Stainless Steel Rat and I was looking forward to this prequel, as I was sorely in need of some literary snack food.
Nothing too deep and heavy.
Something fun, light, and good to read while battling a ferocious hangover.
Sadly, I was disappointed.
It just wasn't quite as engaging as the original.
By 3/4 of the way through it, I had to prod myself to keep reading, and I found myself rejoicing when there were only a few pages left.
So if you find yourself in similar circumstances, may I recommend: The Stainless Steel Rat and acetaminophen.
The first book, chronologically, in the series (but not the first written).A fun look at a young man (17) who wants to get a good education -- in the art of criminality. This is a story of the education and experiences that turned a smart petty thief into The Stainless Steel Rat.The book has Harrison's dry wit throughout along with some really moving scenes. Overall, it's very entertaining to read and a bit of a page-turner.
Really a strange but very powerful book, one that only Harry Harrison could dream up. It was vividly written yet it had depth to it that really makes you think.
A great origin story to a great character, I love it more each time I read it. The title line was the last line of the book... I can't tell you how much I giggled! Love that kind of thing.
Много интересна и увлекателна книжка ... понякога леко досадна с "момчето ми" и идеализацията на връзката между "плъховете", но иначе прекрасна книжка ...
One of the best origin stories yet! Love how he came around to become the SSR where all he had was wit and not a million gadgets to get him out of trouble (or into).
Loved the voice used for the main character. Books like this are why I stop at library book sales more than once.
I passed on this books all through high school. Never could get past the title. Anyway, I finally tried one. Can't say I'm a big fan but this one was kind of fun.
I really liked this one. It had me strangely emotional at the end and contains the action and adventure I have come to expect and enjoy in the series.
A spectacular start to a fantastic series. A must-read for people that like sci-fi, mysteries, action, and don't take themselves too seriously.
The Tale of the Rat in the beginning. This might be my favorite book in his whole saga. A must for any Harrison fan- in fact for any sci-fi disciple at all!
The fast, simplistic plot and narrative reads like a book for boys but vocabulary wise I felt it was aimed at an older audience.
In the second half of the novel Jim has various adventures on a backward planet where a feudal society lives and wars in virtual antiquity.
All very dashing.I have a feeling that this may not have been the first Stainless Steel Rat book to be written and that it was written as a prequel some time afterwards instead.
It's a short read so if I come across one I might give it a go.So even though I sound very scathing I still found this book readable.
Perhaps one of his most prolific series, Harry Harrison doesn’t fail to deliver in yet another installment of the Stainless Steel Rat. Third of the books I’ve read, this one instead takes us back to James diGitz’s youth when he first decided that a life of crime was for him at the ripe old age of seventeen, having to otherwise face the prospect of raising “porcuswine” – genetically engineered pigs that have been crossed with porcupines – for the rest of his life.
My initial doubts were largely due to the young rat being very similar to his older self: I liked the growth he undertook in the earlier novels as he became a parent and had more responsibilities but here he seemed largely the same character as in the previous book.
Reading it now I can see that I was wrong in some areas as this Jim still has a few areas to smooth off in his growth but he is largely the same character throughout the entirety of the series.
This isnt a bad book but it is only good for nostalgia sake, If you do not have found memories of this character then you should probably pass on this book.
The Stainless Steel Rat is a classic character in science fiction and this is his origin story and for what it is its fine, but its just not a great book.
I read this just to fill in a checkbox as I had never read a SSR book before and the character is regarded as iconic and is referenced in many other books at least obliquely so as a completest I decided to read a book with him in it.
