https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/455764.Audrey_Rose
Not only that-I think a lot of its social commentary went over my head because I was only a young teen at the time and didn't know half the things I thought I did.Janice and Bill Templeton have a young daughter, Ivy, who has bouts of severe nightmares.
Asleep, she runs about in a panic, yelling for her parents and screaming "Hot, hot, hot." The first time the nightmares occurred, a psychiatrist seemed to help the situation.
Bill and Janice Templeton seem to want to change with the times, (they get sex manuals and try to keep things fresh, for instance), but in other respects, Bill especially is set in his ways.
No fault to the book but courtroom dramas are one of my least favorite things in the world.
I know for an almost fact that I would’ve DNF’d this book had I tried to read it in paperback/Kindle form because I have no tolerance for books that bore me and that’s what this one did.If you want to revisit the 70’s with this book, make sure you grab the audiobook!I’d give the story a 2 but the narration a 5 which averages out to a three (hey, my review, my math!).
And its inevitable end is haunting and disturbing while yet completely believable.Yes. Go find a copy of this book and read it.
Five stars in all categories.I think I am going to start adding a new section to the end of certain select book reports.
Well this book didn't have a weak ending, but I think as an alternate, this one would have been even more terrifying.
Check it out:(view spoiler)[At the end when they hypnotically regress Ivy back to the point before her life where she was Audrey Rose, and the doctor counts back and says, "Ivy, wake up!" she obviously can't wake up because she's not Ivy. Well, the doctor catches onto this, or Audrey tells him, "Ivy isn't here" or "Who is Ivy?" or whatever.
It's strange that so many of the reviewers here have said the same thing, but I -- too-- read this book when I was probably much too young to do so. I was 12, and I remember the book not scaring me, but definitely intriguing me. I re-read it a few years ago and found that it was better as a memory. Still, I have to give it five stars because of the impression it first left.Just as a side note...I HATED the movie.
Die Templetons tun alles, um den Kontakt mit Hoover zu unterbinden, aber die Situation eskaliert und Hoover zieht schließlich sogar ins gleiche Haus ein und entführt Ivy.Der Roman gliedert sich in zwei gleichlange Teile.
Im ersten beschreibt de Felitta, wie sich Hoover ins Leben der Templetons drängt und schließlich sogar Ivy entführt.
So aber bleibt ein Gefühl milder Enttäuschung und der Wunsch, de Felitta hätte noch genauer hinsehen mögen, hätte alles ausschöpfen mögen, was in diesem Roman von ihm angerissen wird, hätte noch genauer die Befindlichkeiten der Templetons ergründen mögen und detaillierter auf die religiöse Vorstellung der Reinkarnation eingehen mögen.
I wasn't a huge fan of this. The premise never really grabbed me but my love for seventies horror made me check it out anyway. It lacked the intensity of contemporaries like The Exorcist or Rosemary's Baby. The pacing is slow and the plot isn't very interesting.I received a free copy from audiobookboom. The narration was top notch.
I would definitely think some supernatural work is here, but not horror.
I wonder if it is the time period in which the book was written...before sci-fi/fantasy and supernatural thrillers were the norm, so, Horror was the closest genre to what it was.Second, it DRAGS.
It could have been much shorter.Third, the trial is worth reading, but you don't get that until the last 100 pages of the book.
Audrey Rose needed to pass on -- she came back too soon, and so, Ivy must die.
Sad, but -- even Ivy's mom came to understand.(completely a side note...this is the 1000 book I have added to Goodreads :-)
My attachment to the emotional turmoil of the parents, and of Hoover having lost a daughter to such tragic circumstances transfixed me more than the unconventional ending.What makes this book interesting is that there are no real villains.
He is a grief stricken father who is certain he has found a way to reconnect with his lost daughter and will risk his life to make that connection.What emerges from the story is the selfishness of all those involved.
The story is told from the point of view of the adults, each acting to satisfy their own independent needs.Bill allows his daughter to die because his resolve to have Hoover put away forever motivates him.
There was quite the trend for horrifying book covers in the 70s -- lots of creepy children with blank, staring eyes, or faces distorted with terror, dripping blood or gouting flames.
I also remember the cover of Audrey Rose scaring the bejayzus out of me when I first saw in on the couch at my friend's house.
Her mom was reading it, and it was an object of horror and fascination.
But I was maybe 10, and I liked being scared (still do), so of course my friend swiped it and we read it.
Obviously the book made an impression on me, but I don't think the story was nearly as scary as the cover.
Slow to start...but once into the meat of the story...the pages were turning fast......I had read this when I was 14....no telling what happened to my original copy. I got another at www.abesbooks.com for $3.50, and no shipping fee. I am glad I read it again. You know how you're worried it won't be what you remembered?? The thrill won't be the same? I really enjoyed this one. Get a copy,and set it back to read next October. It's that good.
I read this as a tween - and what stuck with me most was the idea of reincarnation. I think I knew about it before I read this book - but this was the first book I had read where the idea was really pushed - and I found that really interesting. I think the book pushed my little mind open a little more than it was at the time - and that makes me remember it more fondly than I probably should.
One word....DISTURBING. Not so much a horror, though.....something more, something that stirs some kind of ancient truth. It forces one to really consider belief systems that clings to the idea of reincarnation. The author managed to create a thought provoking, yet utterly enjoyable (not the right word, but close enough) read. This tale will stay with me, perhaps even haunt me, for a very long time.
I have such fond memories of the days when everyone was obsessed with reincarnation.
I liked this book but I think it spent too much time going over Hoover's Journal entries.
Audiobook now available:Amazon US | Amazon UK | Audible
Bill and Janice Templeton live a life of luxury with their daughter Ivy in the hustle and bustle of New York City.
The day that Janice finds a strange man waiting for Ivy outside the school, she quickly grabs her daughter and hurries home, hoping to put distance between her and the fear that something terrible is about to tear her family apart.
But when Mr. Hoover, the stranger, shows up on the Templeton's doorstep with a far-fetched story of reincarnation, Bill and Janice find themselves thrown into a nightmare that seems bent on having only one terrifying outcome.
Detailed descriptions of the painful and terrifying death of Audrey and the melting ceremony at the boarding school with Ivy – I know my heart came near to stopping several times!Although written in 1975, Felitta knows the fears of parents well and plays those fears and emotions to perfection.
His "Hoover" voice was adequately creepy and his "Mr. Templeton’s" voice was perfect as the father.I enjoyed the book – Ok, enjoy is not quite the word; I was terrified, creeped out and sitting on pins and needles until the end – so, ...
Now this maybe a product of its time, but Mrs Templeton's voice is seldom heard or comprehended creating a time warp away from today's audience.
Although, out of everyone within the pages, she is the one with the strongest in need strength.The book is very well written and it flow from scene to scene with the foot pressed firmly on the gas pedal towards its dramatic conclusion.This story does not have any real horror elements but plenty of paranormal aspects and metaphysical overtones that leads one to wonder and ponder the possibilities.
There are "page-turner" sections, but in between, it's so dull that I had to convince myself to keep reading.
I guess I shouldn't complain that the book rises above pulp fiction, what with the inclusion of interesting secondary/tertiary characters (the lawyers, the judge, the expert witnesses) and the slight forays into the philosophical and spiritual-- but sadly, I often didn't enjoy the reading experience...
Of course, not every book has to be a page-turner, and some of my personal favorites are relatively slow-burning.
The core concept is interesting enough, but the ending is not exactly unpredictable, and the slowness of much of the book didn't do it any favors.
After seeing the 1970's film of Audrey Rose about two years ago I finally found a copy of the book (a hardcover edition with a really eerie picture on the front).
The book was a little boring at first but by the end of the first chapter I was reading all day long to finish it!
I really feel like the authors knows how to write "people", in other words the characters did not feel like caricatures or cut-outs, but real people dealing with something terrifying.The story itself was intriguing.
I have been interested for the last several years in the concept of re-incarnation, Hinduism, Buddhism and other eastern thought, so this book was right up my alley.
Even though I was aware of many of the doctrines set forth in this book(I assume when it was written it was still a shocking concept to many westerners, particularly Americans), I still felt the concepts drove the plot and characters in such interesting ways.The book starts as spiritual mystery and turns into a courtroom drama!
There were a number of criticism when this book came out.
It was on the heals of the "Exorcist", so stories about a girl troubled by the supernatural wasn't uncommon and were the flavor of the month.
However, I think Audrey Rose was different in some way.
It wasn't about anything evil or unholy but a curiosity of reincarnation.
The characters are a perfect vehicle for western audiences to see and think a non Judia-Christian view of the after life.
Even though this book is purely fiction.
But the core idea of an ever lasting soul always gets the imagination going.
My grandmother loved reading cheesy seventies horror books. This is one of those covers that stared at me for most of my life, so I finally decided to read it. It was a book much improved by skimming.
I was NOT expecting this book to pack such a punch. Because of a slow and kinda clumsy first quarter, this is really more of a 4.5 stars rating, but what I thought would be a kinda dated, woo-woo, EXORCIST stepchild soon became a gripping, surprising, and heartwrenching family drama. Extra points for the audiobook, narrated by Matt Godfrey, who made several scenes pulse with an uncanny terror that might have actually rendered some moments even more effectively than on the page.
Another top-notch NY story, but this time in the realm of reincarnation! It got me to thinking - if I were reincarnated, I think I would be a mountain goat. Just because.
Bill and Janice Templeton along with their young 10 year old daughter, Ivy, live a life only glimpsed in episodes of Mad Men. He works in advertising and provides for quite an upscale life in Manhattan.
This wouldn't be a scary October selection is that was all there was to it.Quite quickly it becomes apparent that there is someone hangin about in a way that is nerve racking.
You see, Mr. Hoover believes that Ivy is the reincarnation of his dead daughter Audrey Rose.
Reading this book for the history lesson on the way things were is cause enough to pick it up but stay for the story.
Will admit to being a teen when I read it; I've always liked books more for adult audiences however despite having been thru more by 12 than many ppl ever go thru mostly re medical issues and dozens of hospitalizations and by virtue of this having been always thought of by myself and others (adults who made up my friends well before I was an adult myself, not having much in common with ppl my own age until just the last couple yrs...even then it's few n far between and still I get on well with and relate well to many double my age) as mature beyond my years...nevertheless, a 17 yr old as an example has still only lived that long and still not been thru many aspects of life and so I can't SWEAR id LOVE the book as much now but I will go out on a limb and say I really think I would.
Tinged with a bit of the supernatural, the story is more drama than horror; this, more than anything else seems to be the bane of De Felitta’s existence.
But after re-reading it for this review, I realized that while the characters were empathetic, they were not wholly formed.
Ivy is the character that steals the story.
As I said at the beginning of this review, you can see him struggling with which category he wants this book to fit into and it really hurt the book.

Ok, so I got really creepy vibes from this. Why is Hoover a protagonist? He's creepy, the judge and jury's reaction is creepy, and so is Janice's. The weird spiritualism along with the pedo-y vibes made me think of the possibility that the author had temporal lobe epilepsy and the resulting spiritual/hypersexual changes that can happen with seizures/surgery. Just saying. This was scary because it made no sense.
