https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40604556-red-seas-under-red-skies
I'll be honest, when I first read this book, years ago, my reaction was kinda "meh." Or rather, I *remember* it being that way.
In a second book, you still have that problem.
Some of them haven't read it at *all.*On top of that, a lot of people want nothing more than for you to write your first book over again… because that's what they know and love.
When you write the second book in a series, the honeymoon is over.
And this book made me cry a bit, which the first one didn't.
Shit yes, Zamira Drakasha, leaping across the gap between burning ships with twin sabers in hand to kick in some fucking heads and sail off into the sunset with her toddlers in her arms and a hold full of plundered goods, is a wish-fulfillment fantasy from hell.
In my fictional universe, the main characters are a fat ugly guy and a skinny forgettable guy, with a supporting cast that includes “SBF, 41, nonsmoker, 2 children, buccaneer of no fixed abode, seeks unescorted merchant for light boarding, heavy plunder.”You don’t like it?
Get your own fictional universe.
4.75 stars! Finally the pirate book I've been craving. This is basically Ocean's 11 meets Pirates of the Caribbean.
Buddy read with these thieves: Celeste & Sarah4.5/5 StarsContrary to the popular opinion that Red Seas Under Red Skies, the second book in the Gentleman Bastard Sequence series, is weaker than its predecessor, I’m more inclined to say that it’s not inferior nor superior but it’s equally great with The Lies of Locke Lamora in a different way.
It’s another must-have addition to the Gentleman Bastard Sequence series and in my opinion, equally great with the first book.
5/5  “Who’s the biggest, meanest motherfucker here? Who’s the best bruiser in the Brass Coves?”   Buddy read with my fellow ship mates Petrik & Celeste.THIS BOOK WAS SO GOOD! Seriously, it was incredible. I can't even explain how happy I was to be back in this world. I went into this book with lowish expectations because, I heard it was the weakest in the trilogy. However for me that wasn't the case, this book was as good as The Lies of Locke Lamorr, honestly I can't decide if I like this on
However for me that wasn't the case, this book was as good as The Lies of Locke Lamorr, honestly I can't decide if I like this one or the first one better, so I'm going to say they are both equally amazing.
I learnt a lot from this book, it taught me how to lie, steal, cheat, the fact that you must take cats to sea for luck, to kill people & also this new insult 
I also didn't know pirates loved cats?!
If I could have two book best friends id choose Locke & Jean, hands down.fanart by Tolmancotton.Can this series be made into a movie now?
It starts as fast paced as the previous book ended with Locke & Jean already knee deep in a con involving this worlds equivalent of a Casino known as the Sinspire.
This section showcases a cool transition period which shows the Gentleman Bastard's as less than their elegant best including an alcoholic Locke!!After the first 200 pages or so - things get very complicated.
So much going on including the divisions of pirates, mages still after Locke & Jean, assassination attempts etc...
Also - Jean and Locke have the best bromance ever!
Frodo Baggins and Samwise Gamgee, Jon Snow and Samwell Tarly, FitzChivalry Farseer and The Fool, Locke Lamora and Jean Tammen: eight men of fantasy who without their counterpart would be nothing.
Both men provide the other with what he lacks, and together they make a deadly, silver tongued, thieving duo that are best summed up in two words: awesome bastards.
A deadly scheme on the high seas!It was a big surprise to me that in the prologue Jean betrays Locke.
It worked quite well and gave me a strong reason to read this book even if I felt a little duped.
And this is a big however- it felt like Scott Lynch suddenly changed his mind completely about what he wanted to write, and had a big Screw It moment, and decided to be completely self-indulgent.
Somewhere along the way, he decided he wanted to write Pirates of the Carribean fanfiction, stealing plot details (which kind of sucked even in the movies), settings, near direct quotes, and even little moments of action in battle sequences.
I also felt that this book got incredibly preachy at points- which is kind of a killjoy for a novel that has two thieves for heroes.
Locke and Jean are on another impossible mission to swindle the rich out of their money.
What they don’t bargain on is the Bondsmagi come for their revenge, using a wealthy man as their means.
Locke and Jean end up coerced into doing what this man says, in the hope that he won’t follow through and kill them.
Something Locke and Jean know nothing about.
These books are exciting and thrilling, albeit quite complex at times.
I will definitely be picking up book 3.
“I want to hug you.
And I want to tear your gods-damned head off.
This book is 1/3 this:And 2/3 this:Quite a fantastic and epic story!
Definitely no filler.This is a sequel and I think I like it better than the first.
In this case, I will say something I don't usually say - I think you could read this one without reading the first and be just fine.
While they do bring up some events from the first book, the author does a great job making this book it's own.So, do you like epic awesomeness?
Baskets full of cats?
Then look no further!That's right, I said BASKETS FULL OF CATS!
(This doesn't come in until about 50% through but it was the highlight of my life.)SMALL LIST OF OTHER AWESOME THINGS THIS BOOK CONTAINS:• plot twists that will knock your socks off• devastation• hurting of your soul and heart and left elbow• obsession (me) to this series (surely healthy)• very very very clever plot lines• a huge barrel of characters• excellent writing where the pacing is constantly perfect• so much sass• Locke getting smacked in the head repeatedly because he likes sass• abseiling• horribly unfortunate events• poison• epic badass women• epic badass POC women pirates• actually fantasy worlds without sexism???• a very cute kitten Locke is NOT getting fond of (but yet he is)• an epic friendship between Locke and Jean that is not only goals but also THE MOST FABULOUS AND AMAZING AND HEARTFELT THING OF EVER• they love each other and also want to kill each other #family• although lowkey think that Locke is gay but whatever• ships SHIIIIPS SHIPPPPS!!!
H.L. Mencken once wrote that "Every normal man must be tempted at times to spit on his hands, hoist the black flag, and begin slitting throats." I can't think of anyone to whom that applies more than my own mom, and the mothers on my friends list, with the incredible demands on time and spirit they face in their efforts to raise their kids, preserve their families, and save their own identity/sanity into the bargain.Shit yes, Zamira Drakasha, leaping across the gap between burning ships with twin sabers in hand to kick in some fucking heads and sail off into the sunset with her toddlers in her arms and a hold full of plundered goods, is a wish-fulfillment fantasy from hell.
Anyway, moving on!Fantasy is my favorite literary genre, but I’ve always found it sadly lacking in pirates.
This is the best friendship I’ve read in any book, it truly is.
Modern fantasy writers are getting much better at portraying female characters as women instead of props, but Lynch is one of the best I’ve ever read in this regard.
More than any other fantasy I’ve read, the first two Gentleman Bastards books have shocked me and inflicted severe emotional trauma.
But they are also among the funniest books I’ve ever read.
I definitely went into this sequel with high hopes because I loved The Lies of Locke Lamora!At the beginning of the book, Red Seas Under Red Skies seemed to be heading in the same way.
Also, the details of the double crossing and all the players in the story took a bit to get into as well.But then half way in the middle of the book, the sun rose and all the tedious details gave to the real story!
In the first novel, Lynch introduces us to the ‘guild of thieves’ and multiple characters including the protagonist Locke and his best bud and confidant ‘Jean’.
New unforgettable characters are also introduced, including new villains who want to destroy Locke and Jean at any cost!
(Actually they really want to destroy Locke who pisses everyone off with his witty, sarcastic way).Lynch is damn funny and writes some really hilarious shit, the likes which almost made me piss in my pants!
Lynch again creates magic, in establishing a whole new ‘ecosystem’ for the book by introducing the pirates and mixing it all up with Locke and Jean!
Red Seas Under Red Skies is another complicated heist novel with all the danger and glamour of a Bond movie.
Incredible set pieces like a Renaissance interzone where the wealthy live beyond the law, a casino high rise made of shimmering glass, and a pirate ship on the high seas lend a cinematic quality to the action.
Lynch is meticulous and detailed and it all comes together both believably and unexpectedly.However, like all the best epics, this is really a story about friendship, recovery, hardship, sorrow, and loss.
The author knows his business and plays most of the genre’s tropes straight, subverting them only to make a point about honor and justice.
Tal Verrar's entire economy is now based on fucking with us.” The follow-up of the marvellous, funny, dark, The Lies of Locke Lamora, this novel does not manage to reach the greatness of the first volume.
Still, I very much enjoyed reading about the adventures of my favourite duo of thieves, Locke and Jean.
One of the reasons that I wasn't so convinced by this novel is that the action as mostly at sea and I am not so fond of sailing adventures.
The dialogue between Locke and Jean is the soul of the novel and the main reason I will read the next chapter in the series next year.
I hope writing my review doesn't take as long as reading this did!Review coming soon........
actually it took me five weeks to read it.I really enjoyed the first book in this series but Red Seas Under Red Skies was a bit meh for me.Don’t get me wrong, the dialogue between Locke and Jean is still amazing and I love the utter devotion those two have for one another.
But the story was a little all over the place and I think my biggest issue is probably that the flashbacks were to a time not that long ago instead of when they were growing up gentlemen bastards.
But this is maybe a story that you like better the second time you read through it since you knew where things are going.
The plot was not completely boring, but also not as interesting as I wanted it to be.
The ending was phenomenal, but majority of the novel was really dragging.This is not one of those Fantasy novels with a secret that you would only find out after reading the novel.
I didn't hate the novel while reading this, but boredom was really evident.
The plot may had been boring, but the characters were unbelievably spot on.To wrap things up, this is not the best fantasy novel out there, but it's still worth giving a try.
May the third be better, because I really like the characters a lot.
I appreciated Lynch's compassion and sincerity, doled out in advance of and in between all of the fun and excitement.Red Seas is a worthy follow-up book in many ways.
Drakasha was an amazingly unexpected creation to find in a story about fantastical pirate adventures on the high seas.
I wanted much more of her and that's a great feeling to have about any character.at the end of the book, after all of the adventure and even more tragedy, friends sit down to have a drink, try to forget about the year they just had, and temporarily put on hold the foreboding they have for what may lie ahead.
Thieves prosper, the rich remember.It's been well over half a year since I was acquainted with the Gentlemen Bastards, and The Lies of Locke Lamora made its into my favourites shelf with the ease of Locke's glib tongue charming his way out of trouble.
Again, filled with crude humour and a fair bit of verbal fencing, one couldn't help chuckling aloud while reading this series.
The one thing that worked against the rating of this book was that at one point, Locke's maneuvering between the 2 plots felt almost unrealistic.
2.5 Stars | Pales in comparison to the first book.
Scott Lynch has once again created witty, engaging dialogue.
The dialogue was a primary factor in my not giving up on this novel.
At the midpoint, my attention was finally captured, and the book remained worthy of three stars for the third quarter of the novel.
However, by the fourth quarter of the book, the ever-shifting use of names (one alias atop another, or using a character's first name then inexplicably shifting to use of a character's last name) muddled the story.
The ending left much to be desired; the story fizzled to an unsatisyfing conclusion.
The three major reasons I enjoyed the first book were World Building, Character Work, and Story.
And honestly I can just chalk up these three areas to why the sequel succeeds as well.The story opens in a new city with a new con that Locke and Jean are trying to pull off because that is what they do and what they are good at.
You know, standard fantasy heist story stuff.
But other than that this book was right on par with the first, a fun adventure and heist romp with two lovable rogues.
so they try to juggle their Sinspire heist, their forced mission on the Sea of Brass (Pirates!
a great casino heist, the Bondsmagi (they are hard to shake off), Tal Verrar's power struggles between the Archon and the Priori, the merchant council (with Jean and Locke being hit from every side), some dangerous tension between our two friends , romance (for Jean) , feisty pirate ladies and a hard learned lesson, ...
From what I read, The Republic of Thieves should be great fun, with some characters from the first book.
I love Locke but this sequel is not as good as the first book. I still love it anyway!
LANET OLSUN SCOTT LYNCH!MADRABAZ BEKÇİ BELANI VERSİN!IANO YUTSUN SENİ!SALON GEÇİDİ’NDE BAŞINA GELEYEN KALMASIN EMİ!⬇ Aşağısı spoiler dolu, ona göre şedin derim ben. ⬇(view spoiler)[Yorumumu sakinleşince yapacağımı demiştim ama öyle bir şey yakın gelecekte pek mümkün görünmüyor sanırım.“Seni piç!” diye kükredi Jean, ayağa fırlayarak.“Onun doğrusu Centilmen Piç.“Seni gidi sefil oruspu çocuğu!” Canım Buddy Readlerim, bata çıka, yeri geldiğinde bağıra çağıra okuduğum kitapta bana eşlik eden ve dayan
⬇(view spoiler)[Yorumumu sakinleşince yapacağımı demiştim ama öyle bir şey yakın gelecekte pek mümkün görünmüyor sanırım.“Seni piç!” diye kükredi Jean, ayağa fırlayarak.“Onun doğrusu Centilmen Piç.“Seni gidi sefil oruspu çocuğu!”
Tabii ben kıyamıyorum kendisine ama orayı karıştırmayalım, olur mu?Sanki arkadaşlarını kaybeden tek kendisiymiş gibi davranarak Jean’e hem haksızlık etti hem de onun yas tutma hakkını gasp etti diye düşünüyorum.Bir de yavrum, adam senin hayattaki tek yakının, niye böyle kendinden uzaklaştırmaya çalışıyorsun?
Ama eğer Stragos’u alaşağı etmek için hem bu gemiyi hem de bunun gibi onlarcasını batırmam gerekirse onu da yaparım.”“Tanrılar aşkına,” diye fısıldadı Jean.
Four stars, with reservationsA bit of a slog in the beginning--guess I haven't been in the mood for the great con.
The language he uses is fun and complex, with just the right amount of detail, although for those that objected to swearing in the first, it's still here--especially when Locke and Jean head to sea.
I do give Lynch lots of credit for the very likeable and noble female pirate character Zamira.A great book, if you feel like devious plotting, rogue heroes and a smattering of casual violence and swearing.
I realize I’m being wayward again: most people seemed to be über-enthusiast about book one, and they tend to like book two a bit less.
This cat might still have seven lives; he isn’t always falling on his feet anymore.
I also thought the general plot was better, with a lot more suspense and with more emotional depth than we’ve previously seen.
Apart from that, it’s still marvellously written, with a lot of wit and banter.
I also liked the play on traditional superstitions.
In this world, being out on sea without women and cats is bad luck.
I like!
sanırım ölüyorum. bye.edit: dördüncü kitap çıkana kadar üçüncüyü okumayacağıma yemin etmiştim ama dayanamıyorum :)
