https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40612032-the-lincoln-lawyer
I don't remember my initial reaction to the book's ending but while it's very exciting, both in the book and on the screen, it's hopelessly implausible and really makes no sense at all.Essentially what has happened is that Haller discovers that his client, Roulet, is actually guilty of the murder of a woman who was killed some years earlier.
Haller is furious when he discovers the truth and rigs the situation so that he gets Roulet acquitted on the assault charge but sets him up to be arrested for the original murder, thus freeing the former client from San Quentin.How he manages to do this makes great theater, but in the real world it couldn't possibly happen.
A compulsively readable legal thriller about a cynical defense attorney who works out of his Lincoln town car (hence the title) and begins to believe he has finally found that most dreaded and improbable of all clients, an innocent man. Although this novel has its share of darkness, it is much lighter in tone than Connelly's equally absorbing Harry Bosch detective novels. I found Mickey Haller's brash personality and breezy delivery an unexpected--and welcome--change.
I don't know where I will go or what cases will be mine. I just know I will be healed and ready to stand once again in the world without truth.    This is my very first 5-star rating of 2015. I've finally found a novel(in 2015) that entertained me throughout the novel. No slow moments anywhere, and the ending was superb. Characters were really likable and fully developed in the end. Mickey Haller is my favorite attorney, in novels at least.This was my very first legal-crime novel, and I am ash
Mickey Haller is my favorite attorney, in novels at least.This was my very first legal-crime novel, and I am ashamed to say that.
To talk about novels though, I've only read a lot of Patterson and some Crichton novels.
I haven't ventured enough to be able to say that this is the best legal-crime novel that I've read.
For now though, I have to say that this novel was fucking amazing.Mickey Haller was completely immersing.
Lawyers are most of the time perceived like that, and I was introduced to the asshole kind years ago.
Haller is a player, a criminal defense attorney who knows how to work the system, good and bad, to get results.What stayed with me the most was Haller’s use of the metaphor of a Machine as the judicial system.
This cynical allegory for our courts plays into Connelly’s illustration of who Haller is and the world where he finds himself.But Haller is complex – he can fearlessly and skillfully deal with motorcycle gangs and prosecutors alike, but he is haunted by an earlier deal that left a possibly innocent man in prison.Mickey gets a “franchise client” – a high dollar retainer all the way through to trial in the unlikely guise of a LA real estate playboy accused of brutally attacking a high priced call girl.
Michael "Mickey" Haller is a Los Angeles criminal defense attorney with the type of clients you'd rather see him lose for in the courtroom.
When he lands a "franchise" case representing Louis Roulet, a wealthy realtor, Haller feels like he's truly in the money and on the path towards more like-walleted clients.
His courtroom strategies are pretty ingenious and when his money case takes an awful turn, we get the opportunity to see Haller turn inward, getting a glimpse of the man's soul.
This is an excellent start to what should be an interesting series.
The Best series! thought provoking and captivating storyline (paperback!)
this is my michael connelly tally so far: i have read two harry bosch and two mickey haller.
the mickey haller legal thrillers read more like hardboiled noir than legal procedurals.
he'd be the husband you never see, who stands you up, who comes home at 3 AM but cannot tell you where he was.also: mickey likes to drink alone.
i like that he is so blustery and self-assured and cocky while knowing all along that he's also a big fat loser.
I postponed reading The Lincoln Lawyer because I thought it was going to be a courtroom drama with excessive infodumps and tedious pacing.
The protagonist comes across as either a sleazy defense lawyer or a loveable rogue (depending on the events being depicted at the time), but there is an enormous amount of character development as he starts questioning his own morality and reasons for doing what he does - the catalyst, of course, being the specific case that this novel deals with…It seemed so far-fetched that it might actually be true.
The Lincoln Lawyer is a pretty twisty novel.
Ova knjiga me je oduševila dok sam je čitala još u rukopisu... Bolja mi je od Hari Boš serijala... :) A i film nije loš :)
It's extra exciting when you read a book you enjoy and know that there's plenty more from whence it came (read: it's part of a series). Thus, I'm pretty darn pleased to have made the acquaintance of the eponymous Lincoln-riding lawyer,  Mickey Haller.  Haller is a defense attorney of the “Better Call Saul” variety. Criminals need lawyers, and if their money's green… He's a likable guy—so likable, in fact, that neither of his ex-wives (prosecutor/baby mama  Maggie McFierce,  and super secretary
Thus, I'm pretty darn pleased to have made the acquaintance of the eponymous Lincoln-riding lawyer, 
Mickey Haller.
Haller is a defense attorney of the “Better Call Saul” variety.
Criminals need lawyers, and if their money's green… He's a likable guy—so likable, in fact, that neither of his ex-wives (prosecutor/baby mama 
Heck, they're downright helpful.The case at hand involves wealthy Los Angelean and potential “franchise”/big money client, 
Louis Roulet
Roulet is on the hook for the assault of a working girl, and, of course, he's innocent.
involved, and because I'm oh so predictable, I'll leave you with this.
Mickey Haller is a defence attorney that basically works out of his car.
The beginning mainly introduces a lot of cases Haller has worked on and doesn't begin to get more interesting until about a third of the way through when a twist is thrown in.
There is also one aspect of the story that I am still a bit confused about, though I won't say what that is because it would be a spoiler!
Even though it was just ok I will read the next one because I would like to see how Mickey's character develops.
I'm afraid the movie stole a lot of his thunder for me. Still, it's a good read!
5 stars. 🇺🇸🤙
"You're a sleazy defense lawyer with two ex-wifes and an eight-year-old daughter and we all love you."That's not writing, it's a regurgitating a cliche, and this book is litter with them, like confetti at New Year's Eve. The trouble is that the over use of cliched speeches and actions obscure a page turner, a novel decked out with top flight characters and scenes place it on the top shelf of its genre.
Even if the minor characters don't add to the plot, they fill in the details of what life must be like for a criminal defense lawyer who dreams of living the good life but finds himself stuck cutting deals for drug dealers.
Defense Attorney Mickey Haller is busy interviewing clients and appearing at hearings.
He feels very lucky when he gets a call about Louis Roulet, a rich Real Estate Broker accused of assault.
This is the first book in Michael Connelly's Mickey Haller series.
I liked the way Mickey was always thinking of an angle to get his clients off the hook.
We got to meet several of his clients early in the book.
At first I thought these short introductions were just taking us away from the real story, but they do end up playing into the overall mystery.
I look forward to reading more books in this series.
Ok, ok...I may have watched the movie before reading this book.
It could be my old age or the fact that I've been working my butt off lately, but I may have watched the movie twice BEFORE even thinking about reading this book.

Loved this book. It is a reread for me. I couldn't remember much of it since my copy is so old there is not even a cover picture for it on GR. lol. The first read was a few decades ago. The second time around was as good as the first time. Brilliant book: entertaining, high drama, court - thriller at its best. Believable and realistic. My kind of book.
This book started out slow, but man it turned out to be very good, will definitely read more books from this author....EXCELLENT RECOMMEND IT TO EVERYONE.
Great book, but was disappointed in the movie.
I am so glad that I read the first book in the Mickey Haller series.
With many cases in the news right now that are disheartening to me as a citizen, it made me feel good that we just had Haller out there swinging away to make sure he did what he was supposed to do in his branch of the justice system.
There's a throw away line there about Haller doing what he can to help these women like his father did which is a nice callback to a Bosch novel.
Read "Moon Called" 298 pages Kindle edition; $3.00.May 13: $50.
I'd say "The Lincoln Lawyer" is the best novel I've read in a year.
I can't complain about any aspect of the book - the characters were solid, the main character utterly likeable, believable and real, the plot compelling, the dialogue and descriptions, right down to the legal speak seemed authoritative and right (I'm not a lawyer so I can only say it sounded like he'd done his research).
Even Nicholson Baker's claim that he read the last hundred pages at a gallop in one sitting turned out true - actually for me it was more like the last 150 pages in one enjoyable sunny Sunday afternoon.
I'm not one for legal thrillers but this was a fantastic novel.
"The Lincoln Lawyer" is a gripping, character driven thriller, full of twists and turns that kept me interested right till the end.
Haller is one of those characters that you cannot help but like.
He is full of attitude, charisma and charm that allows him to use and manipulate the system just enough to make money and keep clients knocking on his door.
With Haller it is not so much about justice as making the system work in your favour.
And then that one case lands in his lap, the case that makes things personal.
Haller must throw everything he knows and learnt over the years to save himself, in more ways than one.
Simply superb book.
When I first watched the movie, I couldn't understand the plot.
The camera print also did not help much.
So not sure if the movie is better than the book or vice-versa.
Mickey Haller is an interesting character.
The way he trounces the DA's attorney, Ted Minton in the court is absolutely wonderful.
Louis Roulet, a rich estate agent is arrested and charged with sexual assault and battery.
He hires Mick Haller to defend him.
But there is an interesting twist in the plot, which culminates in a superb climax.For all thriller aficionados, go for it !
Great read. But I saw the movie first, then read the novel, a process that gave away some of the plot points. Oh well. The more hapless, fatalistic Mickey Haller in print differs from the cocky, slick attorney on the silver screen. So, I ended up liking the book more, although both make for first-rate entertainment. Mr. Connelly's writing is just so smooth, and I just flowed along with the story. I like that as a reader; I admire that as a writer. I'll be reading further in the series.
I'm a big fan of Michael Connelly, and this is one of his best.
Also, Connelly doesn't drift down the sex and violence and gore hallways when he writes thrillers.
He keeps those things to a minimum, considering that the book is, in essence, a murder mystery.
I find myself completely, happily immersed whenever I pick up one of his books.
If you've never tried Connelly, this is the first of a series starring defense attorney Mickey Haller.
Every book in the series is at least a four-star read.
Imo, this is the best of them.
Hard to go wrong with any one of his books.
For this first book in this series, author Connelly dreams up a bizarre, convoluted legal situation that really should be a 1990s movie starring Ashley Judd and Tommie Lee Jones. It's easy to read though, with a plot that moves quickly along and plenty of snappy dialogue to go with the contrived dramatic situations and ridiculous coincidences. Ultimately, it's fun if you don't think about it too hard.
I like this book.
But, I've found a good book and plan to go on to the next in the series.This book is about a man who in many ways is nothing like me.
And the story of the case that turn involves is what makes up this book.
I find I have always liked "good" courtroom dramas and this is that with a lot more to it.I can I find with some slight reservations recommend this one.
To me it was one of the best books I've read in a long time and a first for me reading Michael Connelly.
I've seen his name and books but never been too interested in the hyped and hightly marketed authors which I thought defined Connelly.
This new character, Michael "Mickey" Haller is a defense attorney and apparently the step brother to another established character who Connelly has been writing about for quite some time.
Great book, skillful writing and a pleasure to read.
Could hardly put the book down and looking forward to reading more of Connelly, hyped or not.
The law school notions about the virtue of the adversarial system, of the system's checks and balances, of the search for truth, had long since eroded like the faces of the statues from other civilizations.
The law was not about truth.
But it didn't matter, because every case I took on was a house built on a foundation poured by overworked and underpaid laborers.
And then they painted over the mistakes with lies.
My job was to peel away the paint and find the cracks.
To make them so big that either the house fell down or, failing that, my client slipped through."
