https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/334485.The_Letter_the_Witch_and_the_Ring
in this third novel of the series, sidekick rose rita gets her own adventure, and it is just as grey-toned and real and disturbingly ambiguous as the adventures of her friend lewis.in junior high i had michelle by my side, an aggressive black girl rejected by both blacks and girls, bigger and stronger than any guy, bottle-thick glasses taped together, playing basketball and dreaming of being a marine.
michelle and marcy were my rose rita and it was gratifying to see rose off on her own and to see her as someone who didn't exist simply to protect lewis, constantly by his side.
I've read this so many times; it is probably my favorite children's book. I love the characters and the memories the book evokes in me. My friend Krissi and I would check this book out from the library and read the whole thing aloud, taking turns lying in a cedar chest! Mrs. Zimmerman is great, but it's the courage of the girl that amazes me. She reminded me of myself--in terms of her straight hair and glasses, but she had much more courage than I ever did or probably ever will.
This is a rare Bellairs with a female protagonist.
Lewis is away at summer camp, and his best friend Rose Rita goes to Michigan with Mrs Zimmerman to dispose of some property Mrs Z's cousin Oley left her.
Gertie is an angry, unhappy old woman who still carries a grudge against Mrs Z from a fight over a boy when they were girls.
She steals Oley's magic ring to use for revenge and Rose Rita is left on her own to save both herself and her friend.
Bellairs deals sensitively with issues of gender discrimination and the emotional difficulties of junior high.
This is the second Bellairs book I have read, and so far it is my favorite.
Immediately at the start we are involved in a road trip, at the end of which comes a mystery in an old farm house.
"Be careful what you wish for," "Be specific," and "Be happy with what you have and who you are," are all lessons one can take away from this story of a teen growing up.
But I don't think I'm alone when I lavish praise on the serious note Bellairs introduces in the final pages of this teen read.
Erik Adams' Halloween write-up of John Bellairs' "The House With The Clock In Its Walls" (http://avc.lu/XqSk8A) reminded me that it's been decades since I revisited Bellairs' work.
And as soon as I looked for them on a library shelf, I realized there were a dozen or more of them I never read, that were mostly written in the ’90s.
So I'm going back and revisiting them.
"The Letter, The Witch, And The Ring" stands up really well as a spooky story that lets the kid protagonist do all the dangerous work without straining credulity or making the adults look dumb or out of touch, and it's a creditable mystery as well.
i cozied up with a john bellairs mystery many a night as a youngster and even just last year!
Best of the trilogy, amazingly enough. Bellairs finally gets everything right - good character development and plenty of scary stuff, not just a tiny bit as in the first two books. Rose Rita is very believable and though (like Lewis Barnavelt) she has insecurities, she's considerably more confident than he is. There's a bit of eye-roll-inducing girl-power talk but it's fairly contained. The illustrations, this time by Richard Egielski, still don't cut it. I guess they were aiming for what would be appealing to their target audience instead of what fits the book best.
This 3rd book in the series features Lewis's best friend Rose Rita having her own adventure with Mrs. Zimmerman while Lewis is off at Boy Scout camp.
This book has the typical dark magic thing going on with an evil witch and the Ring of Solomon, but the story also takes on Rose Rita's coming of age issues.
It looks as if this series continued with another author.
I don't know what John Bellairs didn't continue with these characters himself.
Lewis, Rose Rita, Mrs. Zimmerman and Uncle Jonathan have an ageless charm to them.
A couple of big changes here that make the series better.
Lewis is shoved out of his own series in order to feature his friend-who-is-a-girl, Rose Rita Pottinger.
Other than sections of introspection where I'm really not sure Bellairs captured how a girl on the cusp of puberty would feel, it's a nice shift (having not been one of those myself, I wouldn't know whether it's accurate or not, but it felt a bit forced to me).The other thing this story adds to the series is actual character development for an adult!
I checked the three books in this series out from the library when I was a kid over and over again, so was tickled when I found The Letter, The Witch, And The Ring at a yard sale a while back.
This is the third book in author John Bellairs trilogy that features Rose Rita and her friend Lewis.
In this book, Lewis goes off to camp for the summer, leaving Rose Rita looking forward to a very boring summer until their friend and local witch, Mrs. Zimmerman, receives a mysterious letter from her recently deceased cousin, Olney.
She asked if I knew about more books like it.
Even other Bellairs novels, some of them excellent (The Spell of the Sorcerer's Skull, The House With a Clock In Its Walls), do not have the combination that this one does.
Of all Bellairs' books, this one seemed like it would make the best movie.
As a teen I loved this book because it created a familiar but strange world, and cast a dark shadow over it.
The premise of dark magic on the dusty backroads of Michigan with crusty Yankee ladies is a winner.
Hail Bellairs!
I like that this story, although it is part of the Anthony Monday series, is told from the perspective of Rose Rita, his best friend, who is abandoned for the summer because he gets to go to Boy Scout camp and she can't go with him.
She even has to step up and save Mrs. Zimmerman by driving a stick shift for miles at night.
I am an adult who can drive and I am impressed by this 12-year-old's gumption!The antagonist was quite predictable and plot simply wrapped up neatly at the end.

John Bellairs was the pre-cursor to J.K. Rowling. As a child, I would get absolutely lost in the spooky wizard filled worlds of Lewis Barnavelt and Rose Rita Pottinger. As an adult, I am the proud owner of a collection of John Bellairs books, with the original artwork by none other than Edward Gorey. I love to re-read these books when I need a brain break from the noise and haste that is adult life.
I think that Mrs. Zimmerman was probably my favorite character in the entire Lewis Barnavelt "arc" of John Bellairs' stories. Stories with her as a central focus tend to be kooky and fun, and definitely entertaining.
One of my childhood favorites.
This is Rose Rita & Mrs. Zimmerman's show.
When Lewis goes to Boy Scout camp for the summer, Rose Rita feels at loose ends.
Mrs. Zimmerman invites her to go traveling to the upper part of lower Michigan & her parents say she can go.
When Mrs Zimmerman & Rose Rita get there, the house is ransacked & the ring is gone.
When Mrs. Zimmerman goes missing it's up to Rose Rita to find her.
Rose Rita is a strong female, but even she feels out of her depth.
Everything of course works out in the end!
This is the third story in a series but I honestly can't say that book one and three were connected in any way.
The main character in this book is a thirteen year old girl Rose Rita whose best friend is a 12 year old boy Lewis.
Lewis is going to a Boy Scout camp for the whole summer.
Lewis is the boy from the first book who lives with his uncle who is a wizard.
I enjoyed this story and had trouble putting it down as it certainly is a page turner once you get into it.
Enjoy!
And then there was The Letter, the Witch, and the Ring which focused almost entirely on Rose Rita and Mrs. Zimmerman's adventures over the summer while Lewis was at Boy Scout Camp.
(So why then is this often referred to as The Lewis Barnavelt Series?) Rose Rita is a full-fledged tomboy and is dissatisfied with being a girl.
[A/N: Richard Egielski is the illustrator of this volume and has a much different style.] If you haven't picked up on this by now it seems as if Bellairs sticks to the same narrative with only slight variations which is the main reason why this series got so stale by the second book.
Mrs. Zimmermann and Rose Rita are on their own adventure to visit a farm and magical ring that Mrs. Zimmermann had recently inherited.
Their visit get stranger when they sense a mysterious being hexing Mrs. Zimmermann.
Whoever said third the worst, then it is far from it because the third book in this series is by far better in term of content and characters developments.
This book offered a refreshing perspective from Rose Rita and Mrs. Zimmerman, instead of Lewis, who was placed on the limelight.
At the same time, we saw character development of them as they struggle internally and physically.
Okay, this one was a lot more frightening than the first two in the series.
But I am glad that Rita Rose got her own story and, even though it is dated in its approach to what is expected of a girl, she is finding herself and becoming comfortable in her own skin and I love that.
I was a wee bit put out when Rita Rose was showing off her baseball knowledge and it was stated that Smead Jolley famously made four errors on a single played ball.
It was actually three errors on the same ball.
I can really relate to poor Rita Rose...
After the first Lewis Barnavelt novel, John Bellairs flagged a bit- his second and third attempt both felt less like Barnavelt stories, and more like early runs at the style of his Johnny Dixon novels.
The odd, gothic small-town menace of "The House With a Clock in Its Walls" may be missing here, but the country setting and folk-magic underpinnings give it a flavor of its own.
Plus, a perspective shift to Rose Rita and Mrs. Zimmerman at least shakes things up.
After this point, Brad Strickland begins his coauthorship of the series, and guides it back towards the arcane menace of the first novel.
I can't believe I never heard of John Bellairs!
He was a wonderful writer of books for young people ...
I have to thank the makers of the Jack Black movie version of the first book for calling him to my attention, though I probably won't see the movie now.
I pictured Zach Galifianakis in the role of Uncle Jonathan all through the books, and I am sure the movie makers also special-effected the charm out of it.
I don't want the movie to spoil my memories of the books.Now I want to find out if his books for adults are just as good.
By today's standards, this book is politically incorrect with the girl, Rose Rita being made to wear dresses and worrying about if boys will like her at the dances in junior high. Also, I find it a little odd with parents who let their 7th grader have sleepovers at an elderly neighbors house - it could happen but not normally. It was mildly interesting but just as odd as the first book in the series, "The House with a Clock in its Walls.
Rose Rita was the main character in this one. She is definitely the opposite of Lewis in the fact that she is not passive and tries to solve the problem and is not afraid to ask for help. I think this was the best written book in the 3-part original series. Another good story you could tell around a camp-fire! 👻
This was the scariestOut of all the John Bellairs books I remember reading this one is the scariest. I didn’t read it as a child, but reading as an adult still creeped me out a little and it was an interesting look at Rose Rita and gender conformity, especially given the decade it was published in.
Certainly the creepiest of this series so far. Also, nice to have Rose Rita and Ms. Zimmerman step forward and be the center of this story. I am pretty certain I only read the first two of this series in my childhood. So excited for what's to come!
This books has some great suspense and cozy scares. Our protagonist is a tomboy and the book deals with the anxieties and frustrations of being a girl who wishes she was a boy. I wish more young people today realized there’s nothing wrong with being a girl who isn’t girly.
Interesting at first. The main character was rather horrible and nasty to a lot of the people around her. Really wrecked the book for me. By the end I really didn’t care what happened to her. Too bad, could’ve been really good.
Excellent, fun read.
