https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93255.Georgia_Boy
Ah...well, this kind of reads like a "G" rated version of some of Caldwell's more popular works, namely God's Little Acre, Tobacco Road, and my personal favorite so far, Estherville.A collection of tales featuring the poor Southern Stroup family: Morris Stroup the patriarch - a philandering, unemployed simpleton always out to make money with some convoluted scheme, and whose failures are repeatedly blamed on Handsome (the "boy" who "works" for them), the bitter, though ridiculously complacent matriarch, Martha Stroup, and William, their son who is the innocent idiot-in-training and narrator of their escapades.
Un Caldwell che ha saputo conquistarmi fin dalle prime pagine, grazie ad un incipit travolgente in cui Stroup, armato della sua macchina per pressare la carta, imperversa pressando tutto ciò che trova per casa, comprese riviste, libri, lettere della moglie, per farne blocchi da rivendere. Gli episodi successivi non sono da meno e ritroviamo un autore in grande spolvero nel ritrarre, con la sua tipica vena grottesca, quell'ambiente del sud degli Stati Uniti che è l'oggetto principale della sua narrativa.
Os Stroup vivem num ambiente rural pobre, numa velha casa de madeira construída a mais de um metro do chão, em Sycamore, Geórgia.
O sonho americano ruiu dando lugar à desilusão e ao desespero.
Martha trabalha sem descanso e Morris alterna a apatia e a preguiça com expedientes inaceitáveis.
Handsome, o ajudante negro, trabalha sem direito a folgas e salário.
O narrador dos catorze contos que fazem parte desta obra é o jovem William , cujos doze anos de idade embebidos em ingenuidade e imaturidade não lhe permitem entender a brutalidade da realidade e dos acontecimentos à sua volta.
O cómico emerge então, misturando-se com racismo, traições, machismo, esquemas e escaramuças ...
Excelente libro de relatos sobre el profundo sur de los Estados Unidos. A través de la voz del hijo de los Stroup entramos en la vida de la familia y llegamos a la conclusión de que lo último que se puede ser en ese momento (principios del siglo XX) es una negra, un negro, una blanca; y lo mejor, una miserable piedra. Con una ligereza engañosa, tal y como señala el traductor, José Luis Piquero, Erskine Caldwell nos golpea y le da la razón al prologuista: «El mal no existe en un solo individuo sino en el cuerpo social».
Was it just Pa's ability with a sleight of hand while humping the gypsy or the latter gave him that big roll of dollars in recompense for the banging she got?The story with the strange girl with the ties was probably my favorite one since it provides a lesson for such encounters and the nature of that type of girls is one that has always attracted me.Handsome Brown and his treatment by the Stroup family is quite ambiguous.
This book's title is misleading. I had assumed it would be stories about a boy growing up in Georgia. Instead, the majority of the book focuses on his highly unlikable father--who is lazy, lies a great deal, dreams up really bad money making schemes and runs around on his wife. It's impossible to like a book when the main character is so thoroughly unlikable. To make matters worse, the lone African American character is written to be cringing, easily frightened and lazy.
Acabei-o hoje e achei que o livro é simples, de leitura fácil e agradável. Algumas partes divertem-nos muito e fazem-nos ter alguma ideia de como eram as coisas há uns anos nos "States", quando as carroças ainda eram puxadas por mulas.
I liked this book, but it wasn't as good as some of his other work. The characters weren't as developed as they were in Tobacco Road or God's Little Acre. It's still a great read, though. I would definitely recommend.
1940's version of "Shameless". But with 1940's racism.
Pretty much "Caldwell Lite." Not as good as his books, but not bad.
quite different from what i conventionally read..
very good
On the other side, if you take the book as a whole, it was very disjointed, didn’t flow fully, and, as true to form the same common themes ran through Caldwell’s works, that of desperation and depravity, the looser father who instead of knuckling down to work for a regular pay cheque, had and got all these grand schemes of making some money and each and every time none of them worked out.
Although raised, it was never fully touched upon, the themes of religion and its discord, the overwhelming of no one specific church but the multitude of them all vying for the congregation.
What we find in this collection of stories Erskine Caldwell has titled  Georgia Boy  is a certain simplicity, all of it relating to the same simple country-bumpkin family plus one adopted Negro orphan named Handsome Brown. A simplicity—and at the same time, a sordidness. In short, vintage Caldwell.“Pa said there wasn’t a finer cockalorum in the whole nation” (p. 160). One thing I’ve always liked about good writers is the opportunity they offer us to learn new words. “Cockalorum” is one such, at
What we find in this collection of stories Erskine Caldwell has titled 
In short, vintage Caldwell.“Pa said there wasn’t a finer cockalorum in the whole nation” (p.
“Cockalorum” is one such, at least for me—and, according to my dictionary, “a little cock, a bantam—hence, a self-important man, especially a small man.”If I had to choose three of my favorite stories from this collection—something I find difficult to do with Caldwell’s prose—I’d have to say (1) “Handsome Brown and the Woodpeckers”; (2) “My Old Man and the Gypsy Queen”; and (3) “The Time Handsome Brown Ran Away.” But the truth is, you can’t go wrong with Erskine Caldwell.
Extremely witty short stories about the Stroup family. Pa Stroup is an unemployed loser always on the lookout for an easy way to make money without actually working for it. Shenanigans ensue. You never quite know with Erskine but I like to think that his portrayal of "Handsome Brown" is a sly way to highlight the racist attitudes rife in the 1950's. Handsome at least comes off as far wiser (while undergoing some less than savoury episodes) than the rest of the motley crew that Caldwell lampoons.
A glimpse into the South of the 1930's. From todays perspective it can be infuriating, at times funny but overall a very good read. I am old enough to remember how things were at the tail end of those times.
This is a hard call. It's charming in the sense of "Homer Price" for adults, but it's also extremely racist and sexist. It can't even be excused as a product of time and place, IMHO.
