https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/197201.The_Photo_Book
Surprisingly, this is a great source of cultural literacy. These Books of Stuff can be lazily cobbled together from whatever is lying around, but this one is well worth reading. The contextualising commentary accompanying each photograph is very helpful and almost every image in this book is captivating and challenging in some way. Dig in & stimulate your critical consciousness.
I like this kind of books for one reason, one can look through them and find something that might be interesting to explore better.
It's more than 500 pages long, and on each page there is a single photograph (in a very rare cases, more than one like on the page that feature Duane Michals' series "I build a Pyramid" for example), by a single photographer (with few exceptions like Lévy & Sons).
I've been interested in photography for a long time, so there is a lot of stuff in this book which I have seen before, some of my favorite photographers can be found in this book.
For example the man on the moon photo by Neil Armstrong is iconic, but Neil himself is not really known for his photography or the photo by Lewis Carroll of his "Alice" is of certainly of interest, though Carroll himself is better remembered for his books.
Luckily not all captions are just conjectures of the editors and some photos have true backstories related by the photographers themselves, but those that don't, soon become a tiresome read.On a more positive note, the selection of photos, though chaotic, is varied and there are some excellent photos throughout the book.
Photography is one of those things that I feel I should know more about, so I picked this up for general education.
It's a reference book, going through major and minor photographers in alphabetical order, showing one of their famous works, info about that picture, a little about them, and birth and death (if relevant) dates, as well as nationality.
It's interesting, because there are a lot of photos in here that I know, but knew nothing about.
I was also pleasantly surprised to find a local (to me) in here, Sutcliffe, who was a Victorian photographer who took a lot of pictures around the Whitby area.
I took to reading a few pages a night which alleviated another problem some may have with the book the fact that the bios of photographers are arranged in alphabetical order.
Reading all the way through can be jarring since you would be confronted by different decades and styles.
The makers of the book did include a list on each page with other artists that shared inspiration,style or what have you.
In that way you can flip to the photographers that share the same style.
It is fine way to introduce the novice to the history of photography, photography's cultural impact and to names and styles of the greats.
Is it strange to put this as a book I'm reading?
You see, for each quintessential photograph picked by photographers ranging from quite famous (Henri Cartier Bresson to more obscure ones), there is a description of why the photo is important, the circumstances of it, and a bit about the photographer her or himself.
I probably wouldn't have picked up the monstrosity had I not found it used at Myopic Books for twenty bucks.
It's arranged alphabetically and I'm proud to say that even though I'm reading other things, packing, and often found at funerals these days, I am up to letter D!
This book has been extremely helpful. I recently started to study Photography and wanted to collect inspiration from other Photographers. Although I have not read the entire book, it is a very good book to flick through and find information about different types of Photographers already out there. The book focuses on a wide range of Photographers and a diverse range of Photographs to be inspired by. I recommend this to everyone interested in Photography or Art, there is something in there for everybody to enjoy.
I looked through this book quickly one day at a photography store and was totally captivated by the images. I would love to add this book to my own collection.
very unique, i love the phaidon book company
excellent budget photo book to see and experience a variety of photography
Wonderful collection of the classics of modern photography that encompass the photos everyone has seen and those that are off-beat enough to startle and/or confound.
Yes I love photography, but my photography will be better if i have this book because I know this is a big help for me... =)))
Brilliant coffee table book.Excellent to flick through, or to read from cover to cover.Many inspiring photographs from an A-Z of photographers.
Visual Inspiration for my photography.
Great reference for finding other artists to look into.
Awesome.
Was required for a class but I wouldnt give it up now
A must read.
Superb collection of photos.
A collection of fantastic photos and it's a book that I revisit again and again.
A great collection of the master practitioners of the art since its inception. Phiadon has done a great job of using both the famous/'iconic' shots of some photographers, and lesser known photos of others. As is usual with Phiadon books the design and detail of this edition is superb.
За тези, които обичат или се интересуват от фотография, книжката е добре дошла.
Някои снимки я показват доста явно, катастрофи, войни, Ирак, удавени трупове, неприятни гледки общо взето.
Към всяка има кратко инфо в горната страница, текста е мъчително дребен и както сигурно сте се досетили е на английски.Вътре дори има снимки на звезди като Кейт Мос и Мадона, и за къде без най-великата блондинка, Монро.Нямам какво повече да ви кажа, за това пък ще ви покажа, нали за това е фотографията...
I really enjoy this book.
I put that verb in the present tense because I truly feel I will be going back to it as reference or for enjoyment for years to come.
My only real gripe is that it has one photo per artist, so is hardly comprehensive.
There are also some artists I love that are missing in this edition, because they are more obscure.
That does not detract from the quality of the collection, however.
If you're looking for a one-stop reference guide to some basic important facts about key photographers over the decades, this is the book to possess.
A great book that one can't help but feel could've been greater... A certain redundancy crept into the photo subjects, slightly surprising with the full canon on the table... The overviews are astute and informative though perhaps too gilded and fleeting at times. No matter, this is a superb introduction to the world's elite photographers with a quick flash insight into their style, lighting, composition, symbolism, themes, social relevance and so forth... 500 pages of photos with a hefty number that are iconic or new revelations... A rewarding book meant to be slowly poured over.
This is a list of "great" photographers, replete with their "greatest" photographs, but something's *missing.* The reader gets the feeling of being in a "History of Photography 101" course, but walks away with little inspiration. This book does not veer off the beaten track, and you view the photographs with a somewhat bored feeling of deja vu all over again. This is not a comment on most of the photography herein (almost all excellent), but rather the unimaginative way it was compiled and edited. This book should fill the reader with passion, but it does not.
I bought this book after having The Art Book for a year. I was a teen and my grandmother(generously)gave me $50 for Christmas each of those years to buy myself something that would be then wrapped and placed under the tree. (Traditions are funny.) Both books offer a vast sampling of artists. Flipping through their pages makes me want to look up more work from each artist since there's only room for one representation a piece.
A great primer on the history of photography. Though not all who deserve an appearance do, this book contains a vast cross section of the mediums more adept practitioners (nearly 500 are represented here). Combined with a decent glossary, a simple organization, and nicely rendered examples of each artists work- this book is a steal at approximately 15 dollars. The texts, by Ian Jeffrey, included with each image are clearly written and insightful.
I tried to read this one-a-day but just got too into it - it's a cross-section of 1000 photographers, each given a signature work and accompanying text which gives biographical information, historical context, and how to "read" the picture. It's arranged alphabetically so there are frequent jarring moments of fashion icon one page, corpse the next, but everyone's POV gets to stand individually this way, which I liked.
Short review: I love all of the Phaidon Art books (and music, photography, etc. books). These books are just a wonderful collection from widely different sources and the books themselves are laid out beautifully. They are, of course, introductions to a spectrum of the artworld (time period, artist specific, genre, etc...), but a wonderful starting point for anyone curious in general, or interested in finding a direction to explore further.
Excelente para los que van iniciando en la fotografía: una guía básica, casi como una biblia. Por cuestiones de espacio, la descripción de la fotografía y la micro biografía del fotógrafo, sin duda es bastante corta, pero suficiente; a la par que nos invita a continuar nuestra lectura de manera minuciosa en otros medios (internet, sobre todo), ya que como decía, esta es una biblia de la fotografía.
