https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16150515-the-string-quartet
The Virginia Woolf String Quartet – Her feelings, her stream of consciousness, her overarching aesthetic sensibilities, her masterful use of language.I must have read this brilliant Virginia Woolf short story a dozen times in the last few days, so much like listening to a string quartet, each exposure deepening my appreciation for details, each word and phrase adding color and texture and bestowing life to a torrent of associations.
It’s all a matter of flats and hats and sea gulls, or so it seems to be for a hundred people sitting here well dressed, walled in, furred, replete. Not that I can boast, since I too sit passive on a gilt chair, only turning the earth above a buried memory, as we all do, for there are signs, if I’m not mistaken, that we’re all recalling something, furtively seeking something. Another short story where Woolf explores the inner workings of the human psyche.Jan 12, 18* Also on my blog.
If someone wanted to write a "stream of consciousness" short story, this would be a good example, a good model to go by. This one is perfect. This is how you do it. Of course writing at the level of Virginia Woolf is another thing altogether. Her thoughts seem to flow like poetry, or in this case like music.5 stars
“But the tune, like all his tunes, makes one despair—I mean hope. What do I mean? That’s the worst of music! I want to dance, laugh, eat pink cakes, yellow cakes, drink thin, sharp wine...” The String Quartet is a beautifully choreographed stream-of-consciousness short story by Virginia Woolf. It is ethereal, torrential, exhilarating, and entirely ineffable. Woolf’s graceful, exquisite prose wafts, glides, and whirls off the page. And it’s less than 10 pages long! Why not read it now and disco
“But the tune, like all his tunes, makes one despair—I mean hope.
What do I mean?
That’s the worst of music!
I want to dance, laugh, eat pink cakes, yellow cakes, drink thin, sharp wine...”
The String Quartet is a beautifully choreographed stream-of-consciousness short story by Virginia Woolf.
It is ethereal, torrential, exhilarating, and entirely ineffable.
Woolf’s graceful, exquisite prose wafts, glides, and whirls off the page.
And it’s less than 10 pages long!
Why not read it now and discover its elusive flavor yourself:http://www.gutenberg.org/files/29220/...Who knows?
You may just catch a glimpse of that lovely “pear tree on the top of the mountain.”
A Madness of One’s Own…“Here they come; four black figures, carrying instruments, and seat themselves facing the white squares under the downpour of light; rest the tips of their bows on the music stand; with a simultaneous movement lift them; lightly poise them, and, looking across at the player opposite, the first violin counts one, two, three―”― Virginia Woolf, “The String Quartet”  I really enjoyed this review by Glenn Russell of Virginia Woolf's short story, The String Quartet... The follow
The following serves as a dialectical documentation of a lyrical duet in hopes of understanding this engaging prose as an impressionistic sketch of the implied quandary inherent in modernity – and, hints at a grander question on the intermingling of mythic genius and madness often attributed to the artist.Glenn wrote: 
"I must have read this brilliant Virginia Woolf short story a dozen times in the last few days, so much like listening to a string quartet, each exposure deepening my appreciation for details, each word and phrase adding color and texture and bestowing life to a torrent of associations."
Best short from Woolf I have read so far. Find an incredible review here.
The melancholy river bears us on.
When the moon comes through the trailing willow boughs, I see your face, I hear your voice and the bird singing as we pass the osier bed.
Sorrow, sorrow.
Woven together, like reeds in moonlight.
Woven together, inextricably commingled, bound in pain and strewn in sorrow—crash!The boat sinks.
For me it sings, unseals my sorrow, thaws compassion, floods with love the sunless world, nor, ceasing, abates its tenderness but deftly, subtly, weaves in and out until in this pattern, this consummation, the cleft ones unify; soar, sob, sink to rest, sorrow and joy.
IT'S A TYPICAL OF WOOLF TO DESCRIBE THE SCENES THROUGH ODD ENCOUNTERS ;WAVES , SOUNDS , THOUGHTS AND CONFLICTS ! I EVEN SEE THE TRANSPARENCY OF SOLID THOUGHTS BY GENIUS WRITER !
When the moon comes through the trailing willow boughs, I see your face, I hear your voice
I've never read anyone describe music with words as effortlessly and harmoniously as Virginia Woolf in 'The String Quartet'.
When the narrator hears a string quartet, she becomes fully absorbed by the movements and meanings of the players and it triggers a spiral of Woolf's infamous stream of consciousness form; it's dizzying, rapid and boundless, mirroring the writer's own mental paranoia through the art forms of literature and music.
Music and nature are two things that aren't usually described in tandem in one story. But Woolf does it beautifully. It's beautiful. I really can't say enough on how eye-opening and satisfying it is to read Woolf's words. read more at: http://earthtomacy.blogspot.com/
So few words, but Woolf leaves a lasting impression.
