https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/200883.Backlash
This book is worth reading not just to remind us that ‘the women's question’ has not been solved – and it is always timely to be reminded of that – but also because it shows how we are manipulated by the media in a way that is rare in any book.
It is an utterly depressing read.
I read this at about the time that I stopped watching American films – I have seen only really a handful of them since.
Her description of Fatal Attraction ought to be made compulsory reading.
Having been raised by a radical feminist mother, "Backlash" (along side Andrea Dworkin's "Woman Hating") gave me an insight into my Mother's frustration growing up. It stands as the most introspective book on feminism since "Against Our Will".
Though it deals with the 80's and feminism, the principles behind how to be critical of the press and not believing everything you hear/read are absolutely sound and applicable across all stories in all media, even more so today than in the early 90's as fewer and fewer people are controlling the ethos behind our media.In the lastest bit I'm reading about fashion: the fashion industry does no market research and for the whole the late 80's actually loses billions of dollars of revenue due to trying to force in a trend for ruffled bum skirts rather than suits for the working woman and uncomfortable victorian underwear rather than basic pants and bras.
First Thoughts: This book shows how LITTLE things have changed since the 80's/90's. How much we still have left to do.To put this in perspective, I was born in 1989, and this book was published in 1991. This book was published about TWENTY-THREE years ago.This book made me angry, and also depressed me at times, because of the above statement.I had to put it down for a while because I couldn't handle it all in one dose.I suggest reading my updates for quotes.
I'm giving it 3 stars to put it in the middle. If this was the early/mid 90s then it would have had 5 stars. It was a book that came along just as I was figuring out my place in the world - as a woman. It tapped into things I was thinking and I think helped shape some of my views. Now at age 40 I'd like to read it again to see if it still applies.
As I don't live in America, I was not familiar with the multitude of anecdotes and evidence presented in the book, but unsurprisingly I have seen the same arguments made by men (and disappointingly, many women) here in my country with regards to equal rights and feminism, they were just dressed up differently to suit our own situation.
Some anecdotes were outright frightening, especially in the reproductive rights chapter, and I have no idea how cruel some people can get (like in the Angela Carder Case).
And indeed it should have been—this book demonstrates the ways in which culture (news and entertainment media, fashion, politics, and popular psychology) has pushed back against the changes in women’s lives brought about by the historic events of the 1960s and 70s.
And it gave me a deep understanding of the forces at work, socially and psychologically, when power dynamics change.Although the cultural specifics—the TV shows, the news stories, the ad campaigns, the accounts of individual women’s lives—are from the 1980s, this book doesn’t read like old news.

That "dressing to succeed in business and dressing to be sexually attractive are almost mutually exclusive" and that maybe this needs updating but maybe also more choice in women's business clothing might be a good thing, that maybe dressing in the same suit for a year (with different shirts/blouses) might be accepted?
Faludi takes us from the retro-reactionary scriptwriters in Hollywood (mostly men!) to the misogynistic floors of factories during the 1980s, ten years after the feminist revolution, to show how truly anti-women American institutions had become, under the auspices that all of feminism's goals have been achieved.
One of the biggest strengths of this book is Faludi's emphasis not only on the words of the people she interviews but their actions.
The mark of great journalism is being able to spend time and observe those about whom one is reporting, and the fact that Faludi does this with SO MANY people makes the book pretty amazing.
I should note that I read the 1992 original version of this book.
I'd love to read the updated version.
At any rate, I went into this book open minded but by no means sold on her thesis.
I had to put this book down three separate times to read something else and come back to it, because it made me so angry.
I got over the anger but remain committed to doing my small part wherever I can to making this world more fair for women and girls.
Having a daughter myself only strengthens that commitment.
Okay I can't really write a review because it seems like everything Faludi talked about is happening again.I need to buy an island.
Marcotte writes, "I do know that feminist blogging as we know it owes more to this book than anything." And it's certainly true.
But where this book gets really great is when she tracks down anti-feminist academics and writes about encountering them at home.
The great thing about Faludi's writing and reporting, I think, is that she not only engages with the ideas, but she has an eye for detail like a profile writer.
She witnesses one anti-feminist academic don an apron and help his son with cooking (currently his son's favorite activity, she reports) because though he engages with the ideas of women remaning subject to their husbands, in his household, this academic is an equal parent with his philosopher-mathematician wife.
The sad thing to realize after reading this 20-year-old book is that she could write the same book -- with all new but similar material -- today.*sigh*Faludi laid the groundwork for many authors who followed.
By vigorously challenging the conventional definition of masculinity, these women allowed men to start to question it, too."Nineteen years later, Joan C.
Williams published Reshaping the Work–Family Debate: Why Men and Class Matter, in which she challenges the masculine norms at work.Faludi quoted Kate Rand Lloyd, editor of Working Woman: "Women are not taking advantage of the power they already have ...
She quips: it must be all that equality that's causing all that pain--But what equality?Faludi's book has two main goals then, to bust the backlash myth that feminism is responsible for women's unhappiness and to expose how what is really hurting women is the lack of equality for women--the work yet to be done by feminists to combat the feminization of poverty, to de-segregate the workforce and change the pink-collar ghetto, the need for more women and feminist politicians in washington, a pop-culture and media that does not encourage women to starve themselves, surgically alter themselves, and spend millions on beauty products, and, of course, a culture that does not insist that a woman without a man is a failure.It's an easy read, and would be quick if it wasn't 460 pages long!
I enjoy her style, which is semi-academic, and I like the way she pulls up seemingly unrelated puzzle pieces from under the sofa, the shelf, the dog's slobbery mouth and creates a jigsaw that makes the reader go, "Duh, now I get the big picture."Faludi's classic focuses on the late 70s and early 80s United States, to a time when women's rights were supposedly set.
Although at first one might wonder why the book spends so much time on popular culture ("aren't there more important issues that feminists need to tackle?"), it soon becomes obvious that a backlash does not necessarily mean one clear, defining event of people yelling "No!" at the top of their lungs.
This is a demanding read, even if it is wonderfully written.
Faludi builds her nonfiction book to a climax: Beverly LaHaye, the queen of the ultra-conservative Concerned Women for America and co-author of the blockbuster "Left Behind" series.
Here is what Faludi finds: Feminist activists and politicans have done more in support of American families than their conservative counterparts in terms of legislation.
And yet feminism has created a whole class of strong women who act like feminists (leaders, activists, game-changers) but decry feminist values.
And that agency advises women NOT to act like LaHaye.
Excellent read, but far from light.
I read it when it was first published in 1991 and 24 years later, this book is still (sadly) relevant.
Backlash comes to my mind at least a couple of times a month when I note, again and again, how Ms. Faludi was spot on with her observations of how the media and other forces push back against any (and I mean, any) moves for women to gain equality.
Read this book and your eyes will be opened to the myriad and multitudinous forces that operate in high gear 24/7 to to keep men, especially white ones, in power.
Wondering where the backlash against womyn came from this decade? Read this book. The backlash has always been with us and will always be with us. The good news? The backlash can be sent into full-fledged retreat. It's a bully. And what happens when you stand up to a bully? Yes, that's right, the bully almost always backs down and sometimes even flees.
Susan Faludi is an amazing investigative journalist. This is an exhaustive study of American attitudes toward feminism throughout history. I will go as far as to say that this is a book every liberal-minded girl and feminist-friendly (or even feminist-unfriendly) male should read. Backlash is a book that reaffirms history's cyclical, repetitive nature.
So incredibly readable. I love the analysis she provides of tv and film. This is definitely a feminist text to be reckoned with. It is most definitely lengthy, but I think each chapter can be read on its own and in no particular order.
Faludi's book is a mixture of statistics and studies (often counter-studies to popular studies "proving" women wanted to/needed to be at home with children despite all situational factors, including personality, marriage status, and financial need), interviews, analyses of articles, and anecdotes.
Sometimes Faludi relies too heavily on anecdotes, particularly in the media section, but the scope of the book is immense and descriptive, covering everything from "pink collar jobs" and the social and sometimes legal difficulty of breaking into better paid "men's work" to women in politics, both as participants and as a subject.
Why are women less than 80% of all federal and state judges?
Why do more than half of boards of Fortune companies still lack even 1 female member?Unlike virtually all other industrialized nations, the USS government still has no family leave and child care program.
In 1990 in a national poll, CEOs at Fortune 1000 companies acknowledged that discrimination impedes female employees' progress yet less than 1% regarded remedying sex discrimination as a goal to pursue.In a 1989 study, 3/4 of all high schools still violate federal laws banning sex discrimination.
Only 10 states have laws mandating arrest for domestic violence.
Wow, people used to think single women Feminists were ruining the world, when it's really Soccer Moms emasculating male children and promoting lame, civilization-ending PC shit like teachers can't use red ink to grade papers because it might hurt the kids' feeeelllings.
Honestly, I'm a woman and I have to say that, regardless, women need to monitor themselves in the workplace to figure out why they aren't being taken seriously.
Sorry, comrades, the difference may just be that I'm from the conservative work world East Coast, but I can't take some of you seriously, either.
By now it can of course, in addition to its original validity, be read as a time document as well.
In building the case for a backlash against feminism and women's lib, it is a lot of hits and a few misses in the book.
Secondly, a number of unrelated examples of discrimination are portrayed as being part of a vast and conscious effort at working against women.
No doubt the conscious part may have been a fact in some cases, but I would rather argue that most of the actions, laws and so on negatively affecting the feminist cause were products of a change in opinions and climate.
Faludi relies on a lot of 80's media references to support her theory of backlash against the feminist movement of the 1970's.
And I'm not really that motivated to sit with wikipedia open while I read this book and bring myself up-to-speed with the media happenings of the decade of my birth.
As of late, when it comes to my dabblings in feminist literature/theory, I'd rather read Shulamith Firestone and get blown away.At the very least, I have a copy of this book on my bookshelf, so I can tender further evidence of what an angry woman I am.
I am upset to find the 'feminist' still continues to be a 'bad word' with many women exclaiming "I believe in women's rights but I'm not a feminist".
As Faludi presents here this is just a result of the backlash of the 80s that is ridiculously continuing - 30 years later!
Instead we should be screaming "I am a feminist!" With the ubderstanding that this would be interpreted as "I love women and believe in their rights" rather than "I hate men, children and morals".
This book is great and I wish everyone would read it. I’m sure someone could find a fault in it, but in terms of consciousness-raising it’s perfect. It was printed in 1991 so it may not seem as relevent 20 yrs later but I assure you it is. Even without the feminist focus, it’s helpful in realizing how much power the media holds and how it can use that power to oppress minority groups or change the way people think. Check it out!
This is one of the most important books of feminism I've read, because, like The Beauty Myth: How Images of Beauty Are Used Against Women, it addresses how disparate people with disparate motivations create oppression. It doesn't have to be a conspiracy to work like one. Actually, it can't be, because conspiracies just don't work out very well.
I think this book is required reading for anyone who considers her/himself a feminist. While this book describes in depth the regressive trends in politics, pop culture, and many other arenas in the late 80's that were oppressive and destructive towards women, it's frightening to see how some things really haven't changed very much at all since then.
