https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28881.Lamb
Overall, I’d become convinced that humanity was far too stupid to use religion as anything but yet another system to justify telling someone else how to live.So naturally, one of my favorite novels of the last ten years is a funny and touching book about the life of Jesus.Yeah, it was that kind of decade.The story is told by Jesus’s best friend, Biff.
Together, they travel across Asia, invent sarcasm, learn alchemy, discover coffee and become kung fu experts as Josh prepares himself to one day return home and fulfill his ultimate destiny.It’s no surprise that Christopher Moore could write a very funny book about the life of Jesus.
He's young Joshua's best friend in every way, so when Josh goes searching for the three Magi who attended his birth, Biff knows he has to go with him.
The way to finding Joshua's destiny will be long and hard, and Biff knows that his friend needs him.The main part of the book has to do with Biff and Josh's search for the Magi, to learn from them how Josh can be the Messiah.
And Biff is more than just a goofy friend of the Messiah - he is the reminder and the anchor of Jesus' humanity.
What I remember from CCD:• It was Tuesday nights and that meant that I missed Who’s the Boss• All the really obnoxious cheerleaders went to my church (Our Lady of Perpetual Help-OLPH!)• I had to go to CCD so I could get confirmed or I couldn’t get married in a church (so I was told every time I tried to feign an illness or a menstrual cramp)• We would be ushered into the school/rectory thing where we had to choose 3 colored rings which represented 3 different ‘classes’ we would attend… things l
What I remember from CCD:•	It was Tuesday nights and that meant that I missed Who’s the Boss•	All the really obnoxious cheerleaders went to my church (Our Lady of Perpetual Help-OLPH!)•	I had to go to CCD so I could get confirmed or I couldn’t get married in a church (so I was told every time I tried to feign an illness or a menstrual cramp)•	We would be ushered into the school/rectory thing where we had to choose 3 colored rings which represented 3 different ‘classes’ we would attend… things like ‘Sacrifice and Abstaining during Lent 101’ and ‘Abstinence - Just Do It’ and I would pick my colors hoping that I would get the class that the Michael J Fox look-alike was teaching•	Sometimes we were given juiceThings I didn’t learn from CCD•	What CCD actually stood for•	How to get married in a church•	How to be cool•	Anything about ChristSo, forgive me if I’m enamored by this book.
Christopher Moore - image from SFGate Jesus, the missing years, as told by his best buddy, Biff.
This a very entertaining, laugh-out-loud funny book, at times.
Where did JC go between the time he dazzled the intellectuals at the temple at twelve and when he returned at thirty to do his messiah thing.
It is actually quite interesting, as is the author’s characterization of Mary Magdalene (Maggie), John the Baptist and the disciples.
I found at times that I was getting bored, but stuck with it.
=============================EXTRA STUFFLinks to the author’s personal, Twitter and FB pages
Though funny and most definitely irreverent, Lamb is a story about the Son of God and his times here on Earth amongst people, told from the perspective of Biff, Joshua’s (Jesus) childhood pal and Moore fills up the lost thirty some odd years from the gospels.
However, though it is an absurd comedy, it is like The Shack: Where Tragedy Confronts Eternity and The Lost Years of Jesus: Documentary Evidence of Jesus' 17-Year Journey to the East in that it treats Jesus as a miraculous and gentle though powerful superhuman, and somewhat ironically, like the Kevin Smith film Dogma, affirmatively casts him as the Son of God. Though Moore makes up the earlier parts, he tells the last months of Jesus’ life fairly straight from the gospels, though from Biff’s perspective.
Lamb is the story of the missing years of Jesus, as told by his best pal Biff.
Jesus visiting the Three Wise Men and actually learning from them was a good way to fill those missing years.
Raziel, the title character from The Stupidest Angel, makes his first appearance here and is the catalyst of the plot, resurrecting Biff and Mary M to help him fill in the gaps.I've owned four copies of this book, each destroyed or lost under suspicious circumstances.
If not Vonnegut, then Douglas Adams.Lamb tells the story of Jesus Christ, chronicling the missing years from 12 through 30 that the Bible itself fails to enlighten us on.
Through Biff's writings, we learn that he and Jesus (here named Joshua, due to Hebrew translation) spent many years traveling the world in search of the three wisemen, hoping that they can help Joshua understand exactly what it is Joshua is supposed to be doing.
And through all of this, Joshua creates a new ministry that seems to totally contradict the one started by his father.Along the way, we learn how all of the apostles came to stand at Jesus's side.
[I'm considering taking down this review, as I'm not happy that my most "liked" review is a negative one.
It's too easy to earn praise by casting stones.]A book recommendation that I suffered through...
I can't stand this type of comedic writing with its obvious set-ups and zingers and formulaic irreverence.
This type of humor gets enough time between news items on NPR's "All Things Considered." Bah!Witness the last lines (paraphrased here):"The 'H' in Jesus H.
Christ stands for Hallowed .
you know, 'Hallowed be thy name'?""Oh!
I thought it stood for Harvey."He saved that gem for the end of the book.
A deceptively slim-looking book (but one that is absolutely heavenly to hold - no pun intended - with it's glossy floppy cover and delicate leaves), Lamb is, as the title says, the (fictional) story of Christ's childhood as told by his best friend Levi who is called Biff.Now, Moore doesn't mention Monty Python anywhere, but I'd wager he's seen Life of Brian.
Although Moore admits it's hard to write a story set in this time and place because of the lack of knowledge of the period, he does an admirable job and it's entirely believable.
This is an hilarious take on the missing years of Jesus, known as Joshua bar Joseph in this account.
For example, the first resurrection that he performs is very short-lived (excuse the pun), but the Roman soldier lives long enough to identify his real murderer and free Josh's step-dad, Joseph.The are lots quotes from books that you've never heard of if you have read the Bible, such as Amphibians, Dalmatians and Excretions.The description of how Biff and Josh spend a whole week writing the speech that has become known as The Sermon on the Mount, is so very funny.
Christopher Moore retraces the steps of those comedy greats of the past in his Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal, a lighthearted take on what Christians call "the greatest story ever told."Sure, it's a good story, but it's also rife with parody potential and humorists have been squeezing it for laughs probably since it was first told.
That being the case, Moore's book travels a well-trodden path and so the laughs just didn't come for this reader.
When you hear and read a great deal of praise for a writer, as I did for Moore, your expectations rise to an unreasonable height.
And, inevitably, your next paper would come back with a comment from your teacher that went something like this "Accurate, and mildly interesting, but doesn't compare with your previous work...What happened?" This is what I felt like writing in my copy of "Lamb" about 120 pages in.
This book, Biff's Gospel, is about Joshua's life, not his death, and neither Moore, nor Biff, will give us the safisfaction of retreading every moment of the end, like some perverse literary "The Passion of the Christ." But to me, that is mute point.
Ένα άκρως απολαυστικό μυθιστόρημα, με έναν ήρωα ο οποίος μπορεί να ήταν απλώς ο κολλητός του Ιησού (Γέσουα στο βιβλίο) αλλά ήταν αυτός που εφηύρε τον σαρκασμό (κατά τα λεγόμενα του ιδίου).
Υπέροχες, κωμικές, σαρκαστικές ατάκες, ευτράπελα και πολύ κέφι.Το ενδιαφέρον είναι ότι η ιστορία είναι σφιχτοδεμένη και η πλοκή σε κρατά σε εγρήγορση, οπότε ο αναγνώστης δεν υπάρχει περίπτωση να βαρεθεί.Τι έκανε ο Ιησούς τα 30 χρόνια από την γέννηση του μέχρι τον χρόνο που ξεκίνησε το κήρυγμα του; Ανασταίνει σαυράκια, ταξιδεύει, μπλέκει σε αστείες καταστάσεις και κάνει πολλές γκάφες…Αυτό που αγάπησα πιο πολύ στο βιβλίο, είναι ότι με το να πάρει ο συγγραφέας την ιστορία του Ιησού και να την σατιρίσει, το αποτέλεσμα δεν είναι καθόλου γελοίο, διότι επί της ουσίας δεν είναι σάτιρα.
Most of the stars I have given are for the beginning of the book and then the last third of the book.
Jesus (Joshua) as a child and the retelling of the gospels from a different viewpoint were really interesting and it is obvious that Moore did his research.The middle part of the book - where Biff and Joshua go in search of the wisemen kind of drug on and wasn't as interesting - but took up most of the book.So, I can say if you are a die-hard Moore fan or you enjoy satire, give this one a go.
Second time reading this book and it is still one of my favorites.Christopher Moore weaves you through all of the major religions and all the while you are laughing your ass off. You can't say that about most religious books......
For Biff the answer can be only one, his childhood friend Joshua, the boy who conquered his young heart in the dusty street of Nazareth: I don’t know if now, having lived and died the life of a man, I can write about little-boy love, but remembering it now, it seems the cleanest pain I’ve known.
The point where the novel diverges sharply from the established Gospels is in the theory that Joshua needed to learn how to become a Messiah and so he set out in search of knowledge from the three wise men that have reportedly showed up at his birth.
Also loved the friendship between Biff, Joshua and Maggie (Mary Magdalene) as childhood pals, teasing and protecting each other, secure in their places in a tight Jewish community even while they bump against its strictures.I liked the author's idea of exploring Jesus' young-adulthood, the part of his life that is a big blank in the Bible.
It felt like the author didn't quite know what to do with Biff once he arrived at the end of Jesus' life and what he does decide to do to tie it up was disappointing.
Foi "só" fazer alguma pesquisa histórica (incluindo uma viagem a Israel, descrita na Nota Final) e deixar a imaginação (e os dedos) trabalhar.Há muitas cenas divertidas neste livro, mas a preparação do Sermão da Montanha é impagável!E também há filosofia, e romance, e drama.Recomendado a toda a gente (com mais de 18 anos!...)I really like "alternative stories", either related to real History or even to fairy tales (e.g. the TV series Once Upon A Time or the movie Maleficent), specially those which give us an original explanation for the way characters - real or fictional - are.Apply this concept to one of the most interesting and controversial (in my opinion) historical characters - Jesus Christ - and sprinkle a generous dose of humour and you get an almost foolproof recipe.As the author explains in the end of this edition, the idea to write this book emerged from the realization that there are almost no records concerning Jesus' life until he was 30 years old.
The story starts with Biff watching Joshua (aka Jesus) healing a poor lizard in his mouth after his younger brother brained it with a rock.
It was just that, reading that section, you could feel Biff's love and devotion and agony for Joshua, and my empathy nerve kicked me in the tearduct.
I'll not be singing over any dead mothers until I understand."2) Back story: 10 year old Biff loves Joshua's mom, Mary, whom people think is crazy.
That was the first time.3) Back story: Joshua cannot know a woman (in that way), so Biff tries to teach him about the sin of fornication by proxy.
Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal was an exceptional book.
You may find yourself accidentally becoming enlightened.I will leave you with the Authors Blessing found at the beginning of the book, "If you have come to these pages for laughter, may you find it.If you are here to be offended, may your ire rise and your blood boil.If you seek adventure, may this story sing you away to blissful escape.If you need to test or confirm your belief's.
I laughed a lot in the beginning...some of my favorite lines were "Revelations 2; Just When you thought it was safe to sin."and "Actually , I thought I'd stay Josh.
Thankfully Moore didn't let the ending be the poisen.Now that that is said, I would like to say that I loved that no matter how raunchy the book got, or made me shake my head, the ending was still sad.
Once the book got to the part that is written, it was much harder for me to find the humor in certain things.
Only because so many "Christians" that I know would have a fit reading this book.
So this review is not going to be great, because it’s crunch time and I was trying to get my last review of the year in before we got shut out of the Cannonball Read site and/or I have to get back to work.
An abominable snowman.”Biff: “This is what happens when you fuck a sheep?”Josh: “Not an abomination, abominable.”I ALMOST DIED AFTER READING THAT.If this sounds like something that would interest you, please for the love of Josh check this book out.
If it sounds like it would make you angry because you are humorless and dead inside, then you should probably get that checked out by a competent professional.
There is something so blasphemous about this book and yet I just laughed from page 1 to the end!I was raised in a Christian household and knew the story of Jesus forwards and backwards.
After reading the back cover and learning that this is the story of Jesus as told by his best friend from childhood, Bif, I decided to buy and see what happens.
"Lamb" fills in the gap by providing the reader with the adventures of Jesus and his best friend Bif, leading up to his the day he meets his 12 disciples and is crucified.
The more you know your bible stories the more this book will entertain (or offend) you.
The humor here did nothing for me because I found no connection with the popular bible story.
those who have read the book will get it) then this story will thrill you ( or leave you crying out for someone to be crucified...
don't crucify me]).This was my first Christopher Moore book and this was good enough that I will certainly be looking forward to trying some more of his work.
First time Jesus Christ ever died that I felt like I'd lost a friend.
Told from the first-person viewpoint of his best friend Biff, who first sees Jesus/Joshua when he's resurrecting his little brother's lizard every time his little brother smashes said lizard to death with a rock.
And then there is the scene where Biff invents espresso and Jesus/Joshua jitters around the Antioch marketplace on a caffeine high healing everyone.
A superb book in every respect, and a challenging and I would add oddly comforting one for anyone raised in or around the Christian faith.
«Prendilo, Gesù. Tienilo mentre io lo picchio». Il Vangelo secondo Biff è senz’altro uno dei libri più dolci che abbia mai letto. Se non avessi tenuto a freno la matita, sono certa che avrebbe decorato di cuoricini ogni capoverso.  «Ma non ti commuove il fatto di sapere chi è? Che cos’è?»«E a che pro? Se passassi il tempo a bearmi della luce della sua santità, come potrei prendermi cura di lui?» Il Vangelo secondo Biff è senz’altro uno dei libri più divertenti che abbia mai letto. Ed è un tantin
Il Vangelo secondo Biff è senz’altro uno dei libri più dolci che abbia mai letto.
Il Vangelo secondo Biff è senz’altro uno dei libri più divertenti che abbia mai letto.
Il Vangelo secondo Biff è senz’altro uno dei libri più variegati che abbia mai letto.
Il Vangelo secondo Biff è senz’altro uno dei libri più campati in aria che abbia mai letto.
Il Vangelo secondo Biff è senz’altro uno dei libri più intelligenti che abbia mai letto, perché riporta alla vita una materia morta da diverso tempo nel cuore di molti di noi e ce ne fa innamorare come solo la penna di uno scrittore con tutti i crismi sa fare.
Essì che ci saremmo potuti arrivare anche noi a pensare che se per trent'anni Gesù è riuscito bene o male a mimetizzarsi nella società del suo tempo, molto meno tollerante della nostra sotto molti aspetti, evidentemente non è stato “divino” da quando era in fasce.Eppure non siamo stati così abili, e non siamo riusciti a immaginare la dolcezza di un adolescente che sente intimamente di essere speciale e solo, in quanto unico, ma ha le nostre stesse emozioni, il nostro senso dell'umorismo, la nostra identica debolezza davanti agli ostacoli che non conosciamo.
We don’t really know when Jesus was born (I’m holding out for early November), or who the three wise men were, or if there were any wise men at all (maybe they were three dumb-asses who were just lost), so why not write yet another book about Him?
Ahhh, childbirth...such a precious moment.Then there’s The End; the stormy sky and hanging on the cross we have Jesus singing, “Always look on the bright side of life...”.
کتاب قراره روایتی طنز و تخیلی از سی سال اول زندگی مسیح باشه که ظاهرا جایی اشاره ای بهش نشده.بیف ، شخصیتی تخیلی و نزدیک ترین دوست مسیح راوی این دورانه.کتاب عالی شروع میشه.طنز داستان و تخیل نویسنده در پروراندن دوران کودکی و نوجوانی مسیح منو به ذوق می آورد ولی با جلوتر رفتن داستان و سفر این دو شخصیت به مکان های ناشناخته و ملاقات با شخصیت های مرموز و مخلوط شدن داستان با جادو و جنبل و دیو و غول و سحر و مواردی از این دست،برای آموزش دیدن چگونه مسیح شدن، ذوق و شوق من برای ادامه ی کتابی که شصت درصدش رو خونده بودم کور شد.
این تغییر ناگهانی ژانر به گونه ی فانتزی رو چندان دوست نداشتم.
اصلن من از ژانر فانتزی متنفرم.
اگه فانتزی خون هستین می تونین با خیال راحت برین سراغ این کتاب و از ته دل با شوخی هاش قهقهه بزنین.
So before picking up this book, I read some reviews online that said the book wasn't for "easily offended" Christians, because it's a irreverent retelling of the story of Jesus Christ.
This book bases too much of its humor on racism, sexism, and homophobia, and not even in a novel or remotely subversive way.
A review on the back of the book compares Moore to Vonnegut.
Moore's book has no substance at all beyond some dull and tired humor, and Vonnegut was a GENIUS.
It feels wrong to me even to use their names in the same sentence.
