https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180116.Awaken_the_Giant_Within
Everything I wish to happen didn't come as planned, so I got really upset about everything.Yes, I almost lost it.
The most impressive quote of all in the book is thisIt takes nothing to feel good about yourself.
You can feel good about yourself with very teeny-tiny daily things.
It wasn't until some epiphany moments when I started to base my life, again, on something I can control - my mind, rules, and beliefs that I came back to a quiet life!I strongly recommend this book for those who wish to live a life to the fullest!!
توني روبنز ، ليس ممن يبيعون الوهم ، بل هو الشخص الذي يأخذ يتفكيرك خطوة خطوة ، يخطئ ويصيب ، ويتلعثم ب
ستندهش عنما تعلم لماذا أنت وأنا -وأي شخص آخر- نفعل ما نفعل وماهي القوة التي تحرك كل افعالنا ومشاعرنا وبالتالي مصيرنا- ما الذي يشكل سلوكنا نحن البشر؟ توني روبنز يخبرك ويشرح لك بتفصيلٍ دقيق بأن كل أفعالنا إنما هي ناتجة عن رغبة منا في الحصول على المتعة أو لتجنب الألم.الكتاب دسم فعلاً ومليء بالأفكار والتجارب والنتائج والتي هي حصيلة خبرات الكاتب في التعامل مع مختلف أنواع الناس في العالم لسنين طويلة، وهو بذلك لا بُد أن يُقرأ بعناية مع ورقة وقلم فهو مليء بالتمارين وحتماً ستسجل العديد من الملاحظات والأفكار والتي سترِد إليك منذ الفصل الأول.
I have always been the most motivated, determined person I know in every area of my life, but lately I had begun to lose that.
Robbbins' book helped to take me out of this dark part of my life and has motivated me again to become something great during my one shot at life.This is a very long book, and should not be rushed through reading.
You also need to do all the exercises it tells you to do- no matter how gay or cheesy they may seem to you- it really does make sense and help you get out of your rut of unhealthy thinking and living.
An unexamined life is not worth living...
بحثت عنه بعد ما قال أحمد الشقيرى أن هذا الكتاب أثر فيه وأفاده كثيراًوأنا محتاجة جداً لكتاب تنمية بشر
هذه السلسلة من الكتب المترجمة الى العربية والتي تباع بالملايين في الدول المتقدمة لا تناسب ابدا واقع بلادنا العربية في النهج الروتيني لمؤسساتها وشركاتها سواء الحكومية منها او الخاصة وقد يقع عليك تطبيق ما في هذه الكتب بوبال كبير عليك ولا انصح ابدا باقنتاءها عموما الكتاب ممل وساذج .وقعت في فخ شرائه وندمت.فهذا الهراء الامريكي ما هو الا هرج سخيف يقدم النصائح المعلبة بسطحية
What he is doing is showing you the power of your mind and how you can use it to enjoy your life and live it the way you want to.So ignore the critics if you are looking to change your life in any way.
Learn the power of your thoughts and how you can live each day to the fullest.I was bitter and angry this morning and on reading a section from Anthony's book on the train to work I put the techniques to work and I now feel great.
We are what we think!I have read this book 3 times so far.
كتاب يبيع الحلم بثمن في متناول اليد.
يوقظ العملاق في داخلك أمد تقليب صفحاته.
ما أن تغلق الكتاب حتى يغط العملاق في سبات عميق.
بالنسبة لي، كتاب واحد منها يكفي، حيث أنها تعج بالنصائح العامة التي لايمكن تطبيقها على الجميع وفي أي محيط وأي زمان.
هي فقط تعمل على اقناعك بإمكانية النجاح.
أعرف الكثير من الشبان ممن حفظوا الكثير من هذه الكتب عن ظهر قلب، وحضروا كما هائلا من المحاضرات بنفس الطابع، وماوجدتهم سوى فالحين في فلسفة الأمور والحماس دون تطور ملموس.
لن أقرأ المزيد من هذه الكتب وسأدع العملاق يغفو كما يحلو له.
I first read this book in the early 90's and since then Tony Robbins has released more books and more audio systems but the principles are still the same.
The only thing I should stress about this book is that it will not provide you a system in finding what you should be doing or should be in life.
The only reason why I say this is that I have read reviews in the past where people walk away disappointed because they have a lot of fuel and no car to put it in.
Such as life, it's up to us to get the car.
من أفضل الكتب التي قرأتها هذه السنه. ينبغي قراءته بعقليه متفتحه مستعده للتقبل لان الكاتب يعرض مبادىء اساسية وهامه في اسلوب الحياة. كذلك، هو ليس من الكتب التي تقرأ مرة واحدة ومن ثم تزين المكتبه! شعرت اني ارغب في العودة اليه بين فترة والآخرى. من يبحث عن طريقة سريعه للتغيير او كتاب للتسليه فهذا الكتاب ليس له. هناك الكثير من التمارين / التفكير مرتبط بقراءة الكتاب. لدي تحفظ على اسلوب الترجمة كان من الممكن ان يتكب بطريقة افضل. بشكل عام كتاب رائع يدعو للتفكر.
The gist is that we can change our lives by changing our beliefs and thoughts, and associating pain with bad habits and pleasure with more beneficial habits.While it's always good when someone makes psychology more accessible to the layman, there's something about this book, and Tony Robbins in general, that feels way too much like he's trying to bottle it and sell it.
It makes it exhausting to read!Seriously though, I know there are plenty of people who feel totally comfortable to business- and marketing-speak, who find Tony Robbins sincere and invigorating.
It is a holistic book that offers timeless philosophies that can help you reach your true goals and discover your passion in life.I have read several self-help books and while most were helpful, I find 'Awaken the Giant Within' a very well thought-out book.
Self-help books tend to lean too much on the advice, but offer little in the way of execution.
I would completely recommend it to anyone looking to bypass the fluff, hype or superficial positive thinking literature for a more substantial read.I would recommend to read it a couple of times in order to understand and implement the underlying philosophies.
Knowing that you have failed to live up to your own standards for your life is the ultimate pain-It states “the desire for gain must exceed the fear of failure” in order to accomplish something.-Once we effect a change, we should reinforce it immediately.
Then, we have to condition our nervous system to succeed not just once, but consistently-The difference between acting badly or brilliantly is not based on your ability, but on the state of your mind and/or body in any given moment-All too often, the security of a mediocre present is more comfortable than the adventure of trying to be more in the future- Determination is the wake-up call to the human will."CANI -Constant And Never-ending Improvement"It must be constant commitment backed up by action."Questions you should answer about yourself:1.
What have I given today?2.
The pop psychology advice in this book about goal setting, decision making, bias to action, seeking help from others etc. will be useful to some and is not harmful.What is harmful is the naive belief that if you want success enough, you can achieve it. For most people life is a quiet and desperate struggle for survival interspersed with some happy moments. To be successful, you have to be lucky in addition to working hard, being smart, creative etc. and only a small percentage of us will ever get to be lucky.
Sounds like a cheesy infomercial
However Robbins does a good job of detailing the steps in these techniques in simple plain English - so I recommend giving the book a read.
Pick one of his techniques and follow through and you'll end up using others too.- The small decisions you make daily determine your destiny.- All behaviors can be changed by changing beliefs, values, rules, and identity.- Ask the right questions!
If you say you "don't have time," this is merely your belief system and needs to be tweaked.- To create long-term change, there must be a change in identity.
من اجمل الكتب التي قرأت...كتاب تعلمت منه العديد من مبادئ النجاحانتوني روبنز ابدع فيه ابداعل جميلا و جمع فيه خلاصة كل قراءلته و سفرايته و تجاربه و تجارب الاخرين
سمعت عن الكتاب من برنامج خواطر احمد الشقيرى، كان بيقول ان الكتاب ده هو السبب فى توقفه عن التدخينحطيت
When asked individually why they became the people that they are today, surprisingly they both gave the same answer “ Given my family history, I don't see how I would have turned out any differently.” That just goes to emphasize the fact that it is not what happens to you that determines the trajectory of your life but what meaning you give to the experience.
Beliefs are a feeling of certainty we have created over a period of time based on our opinions and references(our experiences, the opinions of our friends, family and society).
In addition to the redundant jargon, the concepts themselves felt somewhat repetitive, so this book may be better used as a long term repository of uplifting/motivational stories and aphorisms.
Some anecdotes were jarringly clean in the public-relations-censorship type of way, to the extent that may turn off more cynical readers less tolerant of sifting through fluff to find genuine beauty in the form of truly inspirational tales of hardship and success.
Many concepts, like those about fitness and neuro-linguistic programming, are outdated (or downright disproven as pseudoscience, in the case of the latter, albeit after the book’s original publication).
Они чего-то выжидают, затем пытаются переделать неудачный результат, а чаще всего берут на себя роль вечных плакальщиков, которые сетуют на свою горькую участь или изыскивают возможность обрести устойчивость с чьей-то помощью.Как только вы овладеете временем, вы поймете, насколько соответствует истине правило, что большинство людей переоценивают то, что могут выполнить за год, — и недооценивают того, что могут достигнуть за десять лет.Поймите, что принятие решений, подобно любому навыку, направленному на улучшение, срабатывает тем лучше, чем чаще вы его используете.Вашей судьбой управляют три решения, которые вы принимаете в каждый момент своей жизни.
He opens up with a story about flying his jet helicopter. This book focuses mostly on "things". It is nothing new, certainly nothing special, and it is INTOLERABLY materialistic. If that's your thing, then knock yourself out. Please be skydiving when you do.
I began reading this book after watching the Netflix doc on Anthony Robbins.
The skeptical director spoke in length about his doubt and eventual conversion - which is what led me to read one of Robbins' books.
Granted, the book was originally written in the early 90s.
But the most disappointing part was how these "inspirational" stories lacked depth.
Considering that Robbins shares stories from a number of powerful and inspiring people, it was sad to use how he didn't provide a deeper (and in turn more inspiration) account of the lives' of these people.
كتاب رائع لمعرفة كيف يحسن الواحد منا طريقة حياته وكيف يعيشها وكيف نستطيع ان نغير من مشاعرنا اتجاه اي موقف او حالة معينة وذلك بطريقة ايجابية على الرغم من انه يبدو للوهلة الاولى سهل التنفيذ الا انه يحتاج الى إرادة قوية وعزم وإصرار وممارسة وجديةكما يخبرنا الكتاب ان لكل واحد من طاقة كامنة وإبداع في مجال معين ولكن علينا اكتشافه وعدم الاستهانة بما نستطيع فعله وتحقيقه حتى وان كان حلماً بعيد المنال!اريد ان اطبق ولو جزء بسيط من الكتاب للإستفادة حقاً من الكتاب احتاج الى الإطلاع عليه مرة بعد مرة
يكفي أن تقرأ روؤس أقلام بداية كل صفحة لتعرف ما يريد قوله.الكتاب من الحكم الكبير الساحر الذي يأخذك بعيداً .. حتى مل منه وتذهب للفصل الأخر.أشعر بأنه ركز كثيراً على النجاح الداخلي .. أي إبدأ من الداخل.إيقظ عملاق نفسك .. الداخلي أولا.كان بإمكانه إختصاره لصفحات أقل ..
In another place, Robbins applies Matthew 7:7 ("Seek and ye shall find") to our material lives, even though in that passage Jesus is speaking of spiritual things.I read this book because I had heard it referenced several times, and it was included in Self-Help Classics.NotesMastery• "Mastery takes as long as you want it to take." Take action more frequently to decrease time to mastery.• "The most powerful way I've learned to compress time is to learn through other people's experience."Conditioning• People will do more to avoid pain than to gain pleasure.• To condition effectively, reward or punish immediately after incident.• Use a variable schedule of reinforcement.
I really don't feel good about self-help books and coaches.
I have my own religious opinions that the ultimate resolution you can make in your life is in your religion and specially ISLAM.
So anyway of trying to improve your life quality away from Islam, ..........
well i kind of don't like it.However you can look at this book in a way of holding useful tools and methods and making some distinctions in how you interpret your own emotions and other's behavior.like The Rules, The Values, The Verbal Transformation and other tools really useful in your life.I felt the NAC part is so much FAKE.Again ....
self-help books (in my opinion) is like getting the best accessories for your car and updating its breaks, automatic transition and many other features.
Solid material in here! Worth coming back to for sure.
We may not be aware of the reason consciously, but there is undoubtedly a single driving force behind all human behavior.
What is this force that is controlling you even now and will continue to do so for the rest of your life?
PAIN and PLEASURE!
Everything you and I do, we do either out of our need to avoid pain or our desire to gain pleasure.What is procrastination?
The answer is simple: at some level you believe that taking action in this moment would be more painful than just putting it off.
You changed what you linked pain and pleasure to."
Right mood, right book, right length of audio version. His ideas are simple and straightforward. He gets right to the point. No long case studies or redundant padding to increase word count. The audio is only an hour and a half on regular speed.UPDATE: I just looked at the specs on the physical book and it is 548 pages! So I looked at the audio version more closely and realized it was an abridged version. No wonder it was short and to the point. I'm not sure I'd bother to read the big long thing.
