https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123636.Psychology_and_Religion
This concept is related to the idea of "projection." We project onto other people the parts of us that we do not like, or would rather not look at.
So when we say, "O my gosh doesn't she look fat in that," we are really saying something like, "I couldn't wear that.
If someone can walk through and accept there own shadows they are on the beginning of an interesting journey of possibly being a full person with more of a full true picture of themselves.
He argues that 'religion' is a natural empirical manifestation of the human animal and worthy of study no less than migratory patterns of birds or the behaviour of sub-atomic particles.I enjoyed the simple and powerful argument about the existence of an unconscious that exists beyond our personal experience.
No matter what the world thinks about religious experience, the one who has it possesses the great treasure of a thing that has provided him with a source of life, meaning and beauty and that has given a new splendour to the world and to mankind.
یونگ همیشه برای من چهره ای خاص بوده.با وجود برخی از نظریات شگفت انگیزش گاهی انقدر روانشناسی رو با چیزهای فراطبیعی و معنوی آمیخته که به سختی میشه باورشون کرد.در این کتاب بیشتر روشهای تعبیر خواب روانکاوانه توسط یونگ ، آداب و مناسک مسیحی و نمادشناسی دستم اومد تا چیزی که میخواستم...!
Distinguishing ideas of god from the unknowable thing itself, a caution inspired by Kant, Jung treated the religious concept as equivalent to what he called the Self, the telos of human wholeness, that is, the balanced realization of psychic potentials--a healthy balance quite naturally sought by everyone.
His views, in this very general sense, were taken over by Alcoholics Anonymous, one of whose founders was profoundly influenced by him.This framework is at least plausible in general, though I never found other archetypes--puer aeternus, anima/us, wise old man etc.--as having quite the universality of the Self and, perhaps, the Shadow--god and the adversary as it were.
ასეთი არაჩვეულებრივი ლექცია.და ასეთი შესანიშნავი თარგმანი.და ასეთი კარგი მკითხველიც, - ბარემ :))
"But what is the difference between a real illusion and a healing religious experience? It is merely a difference in words....Nobody can know what the ultimate things are. We must, therefore, take them as we experience them. And if such experience helps make your life healthier, more beautiful, more complete and more satisfactory to yourself and to those who you love, you may safely say: 'This was the grace of God'"
بین 3 و 4 شک داشتم. خب فهمیدم که یونگ رو دوست دارم واقعاً. ولی مشکلِ همیشگی رو دارم با تحلیل هاش. فکر می کنم یک جور خاصیّت خود-تأییدکنندگی دارن. یعنی انگار به صورت هدفمند از قبل انتخاب کرده که کجا دنبالِ مدرک بگرده. از طرفی بنابر تعریف خودش از دین(دین عبارت از رابطه ی انسان است با عالی ترین یا تواناترین ارزش) این توقّع برام ایجاد شده بود که انقدر به مسیحیّت گیر نده که اینطور نبود متأسّفانه.
The three foci of this book are a case study of a neurotic man plagued by irrational fears of cancer, a natural history of the generation of religious symbols, and a consideration of the psychological consequences of the crisis of faith that was striking the heart of Europe.
But as they stand in this work his social views are repugnant and anachronistic, and lack all sense of self-awareness.One additional quarrel I have is that Jung's protestations that he is not interested in theology and philosophy, and that he deals with religious images purely as a psychological phenomenon, are not persuasive in the face of the many metaphysical claims that he in fact makes, such as offhandedly referring to atheism as a "stupid error".
Jung says, "The soul is for the most part outside the body." What an extraordinary idea! The modern person is taught to believe that the soul - or whatever language is used for soul - is contained in the brain or is equivalent to mind and is purely and humanly subjective. But if we were to think of the soul as being in the world, then maybe our work would be seen as a truly important aspect of our lives, not only for its literal product but also as a way of caring for the soul. - #CareoftheSoul #Thomas Moore
Our scientific temper is devout,” William James—from Pragmatism [1911 – pg 14 et reg]  Here again, a scientist stating that their search for truth in fact is religious in nature.Pg 7—opening ¶—last sentenceThe psychologist, in as much as he assumes a scientific attitude, has to disregard the claim of every creed to be the human side of the religious problem, in that he is concerned with the original religious experience quite apart from what the creeds have made of it.” notes from 3-13-12Pg. 8—Even after a client overcoming hurdles of trust and/or shyness, “he will be reluctant or even afraid to admit certain things to himself, as if it were dangerous to become conscious of himself.”“Is there anything in man that is stronger than himself?”pg—11—1¶“It is almost a ridiculous prejudice to assume that existence can only be physical.
Carl suggests that God ran the whole creationistic gamut in an effort to express himself in the form of a human, to eventually redeem humanity after balancing out his DID (which Carl tactfully referred to as "antinomy", as God is comprised of a series of contradictions and conflicting beliefs, which I'll explore more when I talk about the Answer to Job.) Yahweh was bowel-clenchingly jealous and insecure back in the Old Testament days, and demanded constant sacrifice and appeasement for his delicate li'l celestial ego.
By the end it felt like William James mixed with the Aldous Huxley of Heaven and Hell, by which I mean weird stuff in the uninitiated modern psyche seems to match up with weird esoterica of old cults, so there must be some layer of symbols waiting latently to take their shape in all of us; and we should forget ultimate truth claims because if these things exist in people they are true for those people.
It was kind of an exhausting read.
escuchandolo mientras pinto, es impresionante los casos en los que nuestras neurosis, nuestros "demonios" toman posesion de nuestros cuerpos y se presentan sintomas psicosomaticos de los mas comunes hasta los mas graves. Te deja pensando si tu condicion, es un producto de tu psique, realmente invita al autoanalisis.
Jung spends a good deal of time explaining different symbols (round, square, the number 4, etc.) and how they show up across a variety of ancient and modern religions, and not a lot of time exploring the religious experience itself.
He concludes that religious experience is a fact even if the religion is false, and that individuals' personal, psychical experiences of the numinous produce more good than the lack of experience, by helping individuals address and reconcile their unconscious with their conscious selves, and helping the world by enabling and even producing whole, at-peace, moral individuals.
I should have known Jung would be very concerned with addressing symbols and archetypes, though.
يتناول يونغ في هذا الكتاب تجربته في تحليل وتفسير احلام احدى مرضاه الذين لا يؤمنون او يعترفون بالأديا
Carl Jung's conference on the religious experience inside the realms of clinical psychology.
El primer capítulo trata sobre cómo el fenómeno religioso es abordado en la clínica.En el segundo, defiende la función del inconsciente y sus contenidos para explicar dicha experiencia, y el tercero, describe los elementos religiosos desde su psicología analítica.
Over all, I value his pragmatism: Psychologists do not need to judge if religion is good or bad, if someone's belief is apt or not.
A psychologist needs to identify what is behind the religious experience and how is it influencing in a person's functioning.
[Reto lector Mayo 2018: Uno que debiste leer en la escuela y no lo hiciste.] 2.5/5 En realidad.Es la primera vez que leo a Jung de un modo tan cercano, gracias a que un amigo mío me prestó el ejemplar puesto que no tenía ni idea de qué título escogería para el reto lector; y es que todos los libros que me dejaron en toda la vida académica, fueron leídos así que tuve que recurrir a títulos que pudiesen interesarme pero que siguieran estuviesen ligados a la vida académica de mis conocidos.
Lo mismo me pasó en su momento con La Divina Comedia y he allí la razón por la que nunca terminé ese libro.Pero en fin, Jung básicamente plantea los diversos puntos de vista que tienen las culturas con respecto a la religión, a 'dios' en específico.
Pek de ilgimi çekeceğini sanmadığım kitaptı fakat sonunda "iyi ki okunuşum" dedirtti.
İkisi arasında pek fark yoktur, çünkü hem deliyi hem de güruhu harekete geçiren, kişisel olmayan, kişiyi ezen ve güçlerdir.""Ahlaklı olma, tıpkı zeka gibi, bir hediyeye benzer.""Savaş çıktığı sırada, dünyanın akılcı araçlarca düzeltilebileceğinden son derece emindik.
Daha önceleri az çok başarılı şekilde birbirine bağlı olan ve devasa bir zihinsel binada işe yarar hale getirilen ve alt dünyaya ait güçlerin şimdi, herhangi bir akılsal ve ruhsal çekicilikten yoksun bir Devlet köleliği ve Devlet hapishanesi yarattıklarını veya yaratmaya çalıştıklarını görmek çok zor değildir."
Psychology & Religion by Carl Jung is anything but a light, bedtime read.
The book talks about the interdependency of religion on the human psyche, written from an analytical perspective of religion as something more than an entity that is man-made.
For a small book of 100 something pages, it is loaded with information and not a fast read if one intends to make use of it.
For a reader looking to view the advent and evolution of religion analytically, this book could serve to highlight the points to consider.
He also considers himself an empiricist and adheres to the phenomenological standpoint, That is, it is concerned with occurrences, events, experiences, in a word, with facts.
Since the dream is elaborate and consistent it suggests certain logic and a certain intention, that is, it is preceded by a motivation in the unconscious which finds direct expression in the dream content.Religion symbols:1.
He considers religion an important aspect of being human which helps to harmonize conscious and unconscious states.
An incredibly fascinating read! This is my first time reading Jung, and his insights are invaluable.I have to disagree with him on some points, like the necessity for a Christian quaternity to replace the Trinity, but overall is worth reading.
An excellent read, though a bit dense with healthy smatterings of Greek and Latin. If you're interested in the topic, which he does not deviate from, then you will enjoy this book. Loved his "fresh" perspective on the mind/spirit and his unconventional approach to reality.
This was my first formal introduction to Jung, and though it was hard to follow at certain points, I mostly appreciated the message he laid out in these lectures. The most helpful themes I picked up on were the existence of the unconscious "shadow" self, the tendency of men and women to project their darkness and light onto others, and the overall positive effect of religious/spiritual experience on humanity. I look forward to reading more of him in the future.
1. not what I wanted.2. mostly about christianism and not the general concept of religion.3. boring, really boring, with pretentious way of speaking.4. actually not a book, but manuscript of a speech.5. I read only half the book, a miracle may have affected the rest of the book.
Kocham pana, panie Karolu.
This was a fascinating read. In a text message the other day my friend called him a "pseudointellectual fraud" and "trust you to like such a man" but this really resonated with me. His ideas on the collective unconscious, neurosis and religious experience are awesome. Granted he may not have the logical rigour of some, but his insight by intuition is amazing.
Jung's submission to the mystical and insistence on its relevance really has me in his hold, his ability to correlate the value of dreams and the minds ability to "intuit" a conclusion is a really important component of any discussion of agreed upon mytho-symbolic language.i'm not going to re-read this because i will delete it.if it's incoherent it's because you don't understand mysecondary symbolic language-games because i've yet to fully integrate my rejection of the dogmatic catholic ritual with my need to feel absolute fear and submission to the impractical and recognize that intuitive knowledge doesn't translate to political dominion.
کتاب سنگینی بود...البته به نظرم کتاب های روانشناسی و کیمیاگری، راز پیوند و راز گل زرین کامل تر موضوع را بررسی میکنند.
Jung describes some of these dreams and interprets them to show how they relate to his concepts of religion, god, self, and conscious and unconscious, which were explained in the previous section.
In the third and final section Jung concentrates on one central symbol that appears over and over again in the patient's dreams: different forms of the mandala and tries to explain their meaning using, for the most part, texts of medieval alchemy.My opinionThis is a relatively accessible book by Jung and not a bad place to start one's Jungian journey.
