https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/732230.Death_in_Zanzibar
If you like old-fashioned mystery and romance set in an exotic locale, this is a very fun read.
While Death in Cyprus, which I highly recommend, is probably her best and most satisfying mystery, this one might have the most charm, and is a sentimental favorite.Death in Zanzibar has a light and entertaining feel to the overall story and a very likable heroine in Dany Ashton.
While the beauty of the descriptive prose doesn’t reach the level of Death in Cyprus, it’s still quite lovely — this is M.M. Kaye, after all — and filled with charm because we as readers we are seeing it through the eyes of another.Death in Zanzibar, while a bit lean, is a very fun and entertainingly old-fashioned mystery, with the values and mores of a bygone era.
When it came time to write this book, she said she dug out her notes and there it all was.We, the readers, are the fortunate recipients of Ms Kaye’s powers of observation and diligent notes.
They were, however, leaders in eliminating slavery and the slave trade.Our story takes place during the time when Zanzibar was a protectorate and before its revolution (following the withdrawal of Britain’s shield as a protectorate) and its merge with Tanganyika to become Tanzania, which is also a blending of the two names.
3.5★I'm wondering if I'm having so much trouble finding M.M. Kaye Death in series books is because readers, when they finish one of her books , toss it into a rubbish bin in sheer exasperation!There is a lot to love, excellent (for the most part) dialogue, beautiful evocative descriptions of a country Kaye knew & loved, travelling in a time when air travel was still glamorous Zanzibar! Even the name sounds so romantic! This is a country Ms Kaye clearly loved. “Oh don't be pompous and gloomy,
3.5★I'm wondering if I'm having so much trouble finding M.M. Kaye Death in series books is because readers, when they finish one of her books , toss it into a rubbish bin in sheer exasperation!There is a lot to love, excellent (for the most part) dialogue, beautiful evocative descriptions of a country Kaye knew & loved, travelling in a time when air travel was still glamorous Zanzibar!
There is a gaiety and good humour about them that is strangely warming to even such a corrugated, corroded and eroded heart as mine and this is the only place that I have hit upon where black and white and every shade in between 'em appear to able to live in complete friendliness and harmony, with no colour bar.
After reading M.M. Kaye's epic The Far Pavilions and her almost-epic Trade Wind, it was a little startling to see a very different side of the author come out in this whodunnit murder/hidden treasure mystery.
I checked out this really massive book from the library that contains three of Kaye's mysteries, and read this one first, because it continues the story of the gold ingots (now worth $3 million) hidden away by Rory Frost in about 1860 in Trade Wind.
Plus there's a murderer in their group who wants that document Dani got from the lawyer .
even just the name conjures up so much.the reason that this novel is so different from its predecessors is that fully half of it takes place over the course of our cast of characters actually traveling to Zanzibar.
she sucks.once they get to Zanzibar, Kaye does her usual job at creating wonderful atmosphere full of foreboding moments and plummy dialogue.(view spoiler)[I was at first mortally offended by the murderer's reveal: a queeny, gossipy secretary, full of bitchy bon mots.
but happily, the last few pages took all of my concerns away; the scene where the mask of his affectations dropped and the cold-blooded revolutionary came out was rather spine-tingling.
Fun, classic read! Put a bunch of Brits in an exotic locale& bodies start dropping like flies. When you need a break from Christie, give this a try. The author lived in these venues while her husband served in the British military & she took voluminous notes, so everything feels authentic. Recommended.
Little does anyone realize that this simple request will plunge Dany into a whirlwind of murder, hidden identity, political intrigue and romance.While it was great to get some additional snippets of information about my all time favorite fictional hero, Rory Frost, I have to admit that I found this whodunit the weakest of M.M. Kaye's 6 book "Death in..." murder mystery series.
Kaye's remarkable and exotic life bring all her locations to vivid reality, as she actually lived or visited all the places in her books for long periods of time and took copius notes that she used years later in this novels.It is wonderful to revisit Kaye's novels once again.
This is - sadly - my final M.M. Kaye vintage mystery. I've thoroughly enjoyed all of them, with their exotic settings, their vintage atmosphere, and their old-school romances. In order or preference:Death in KenyaDeath in KashmirDeath in ZanzibarDeath in the AndamansDeath in Cyprus Death in BerlinI'm contemplating rereading Kaye's masterpiece - the doorstopper-sized The Far Pavilions - although I may go ahead and read her other two, less well-known, sweeping epics first: Trade Wind and Shadow of the Moon.
When the protagonist of this novel, Dany, mentioned that Zanzibar was an island, I was surprised.
Her desire to see Zanzibar, to start her exciting new adventure, explodes.
And Zanzibar, of course, is in the middle of it all.Dany is a charming and naive teenage heroine.
The women in the book are either striking femmes fatales or naive and honest dupes like Dany.
Their gods and their gospel are hate and destruction...’ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~In common with all young women she had dreamed of the time when she would fall in love.
Another fun little mystery from one of my favorite authors. There is a touch of romance in this one. I do enjoy these mysteries but they are dated with a very meek, helpless heroine.
Quite a good mystery, which kept me guessing till the end. The writing reminded me of Mary Stewart, although her heroines are more fleshed out and not as naive. But the setting - Zanzibar - made up for that. It's a lovely, mystical place I loved when I visited it as a child.
The descriptions of the various locations, the deft handling of the politics of the time (late 1950s) and place (East Africa, especially Zanzibar itself) rate 5 stars with me.
Dany Ashton is so young (in age, experience and common sense) that I spent most of the book wanting to shake her.
Of course, if she had acted with a grain of common sense at the beginning we would have had a very different story.
Lash does improve, somewhat, as the story progresses, but I never really believed in their romance.The rest of the supporting cast is nicely drawn.
Now an adult in her twenties, Dany is delighted when her mother Lorraine, married to a wealthy writer, invites her to visit them for a houseparty in Zanzibar of all places.
Later, Dany finds , to her horror, that the man was murdered by someone he let in and the police have found a handkerchief with her initials and someone reported seeing a young lady leave the house around the time of the murder.
The young lady is Dany and she panics.
And took a little bit too long to get going.
) even if Lash did drink to much.
Sadly it wasn't anywhere near as good as Death in Kenya, but still it was worth the time it took to read it.
Also this is the sequel to Trade Wind.
( Trade Wind was better, it had more atmosphere ).
) and a fair bit of drinking and some smoking.
other than that it had nothing to offend most readers.Death in Kenya and Trade Wind both had more depth than Death in Zanzibar but its a good read anyhow.
This was a good who-dunnit but can not compare to "Death In Kenya".
Not nearly as atmospheric or intense.
In other words, M.M. Kaye wrote "Death In Zanzibar" and then afterwards went back and wrote the story which was to have taken place 100 years prior (Trade Wind).
Trade Wind is an epic (a blockbuster) and this is a mild who dunnit.
Not nearly as good.
But still worth reading and a good murder mystery with some hidden treasure thrown in there too.CONTENT:CUSSING: Mild, sprinkled throughoutVIOLENCE: Not shown, but a few people are murdered.SEX: NoneSPIRITISM: rumor of an old curse is mentioned.
I'll never say no to fantastic plot twists, red herrings, character development, ingenious methods of murder and shockingly unique solutions.
Yes, many of Agatha Christie's stories are unique and shocking and clever.
But I keep reading her books in particular because I just can't get enough of the atmosphere.
Well-read Christie fans will know that sometimes, the murderer may even be the protagonist or narrator.
And if your favorite character doesn't end up being the killer, they're in constant danger of becoming the next victim.
Agatha Christie fans should definitely check it out.
★★★★ (This is a review of the audiobook.) I’ve never read a book by M.M. Kaye, but I’m doing a “Lifetime in Books” challenge as well as a “Double-Decker” (double letters in title, etc.) challenge and wanted to kill two birds with the same stone before the end of the year. The results of my searches have been hit or miss. This one, luckily, was a home run. Not out of the ballpark, but very well played. I’ve not heard Bahni Turpin narrate before, nor am I familiar with her acting on the large or s
★★★★½ (This is a review of the audiobook.) I’ve never read a book by M.M. Kaye, but I’m doing a “Lifetime in Books” challenge as well as a “Double-Decker” (double letters in title, etc.) challenge and wanted to kill two birds with the same stone before the end of the year.
I’ve not heard Bahni Turpin narrate before, nor am I familiar with her acting on the large or small screen.
Great voice differentiation, deliver of international accents from a large cast of characters, and inflection for characters’ tones and moods.While dated, especially as far as male chauvinism goes, I’m surprised at how much I enjoyed it.
They decide to invite Dany to Zanzibar where Frost (through his father, the rakish Emory Frost) has rights to Kivulimi: "The House of Shade", a house bestowed up Emory as a gift from a local potentate.
Dany is thrilled at the chance to finally see the world and has great plans to have a good time.
Lash is spending his last hours getting thoroughly drunk in response to being jilted by his fiancee and comes across Dany in the hotel hallway on his return from his binge.
Clues are constantly being planted to frame Dany even after the envelope's contents disappear, but they manage to foil the murderer's plans.
Well, I’d like to give this 5-stars for the description of the Zanzibar scene, the constant consumption of alcoholic libation, smoking on airplanes and everywhere else, AND of course the nylon nightgowns!But this is a whodunnit and the resolution/uncovering the details of the crime was unsatisfactory. It seems as if MMK concocted an interesting and intricate mystery, but was not equal to the task of crafting final resolution of all that was going in a satisfying way.

The original title, House of Shade, fit the book much better than the current title. Fairly classic romantic suspense a la Mary Stewart. I enjoyed the exotic setting and the mystery was well crafted.
Duh!" on numerous occasions, and I usually prefer my heroines to be a bit more plucky and intelligent (like Tuppence from my beloved Tommy and Tuppence books by Agatha Christie--even though they still get into tough situations it seems more from their tenacity and spunk than from their innocence and cluelessness.) Despite these gripes, I did enjoy the book on the whole and the final 1/4 of the book was definitely exciting and intriguing and I was satisfied with the way things played out in the end.
This book was written in 1959 by the author of "The Far Pavilions." Dany Ashton is looking forward to a trip to exotic Zanzibar to visit her jet-setting mother and famous step-father.
Before leaving England, she does an errand for her step-father that results in her becoming a suspect in a murder.
Desperate to leave on her journey and wanting to avoid police interrogation, she leaves the country incognito pretending to be the secretary of a publisher she meets, hatching the plan while he is intoxicated.
Things do not go as smoothly as planned, and Dany's rooms are searched and another man is murdered en route.
I enjoyed this book which was an easy read. My major criticism is that its very dated which is a shame as it is likened to Agatha Christie whose books are timeless.Dany is invited to stay in Zanzibar with her mother and step-father. Before she even leaves the UK her hotel room is searched and her passport taken. How she manages to travel is a story in itself leading to all kinds of problems when she eventually arrives straight in the middle of a murder.
This book was written during Kaye's and her family stay in Kenya when they got the chance to visit Zanzibar. "And I fell in love with it at first sight, for it turned out to be one of those rare places that live up to everything one has hoped and dreamed that they would be."However, I must agree with Hannah, the plot isn't so captivating as Death in Kenya.Next reading will be Death in Cyprus.
As with the other books in this series, the literary 'tourism' aspect is wonderful, bringing to life an island and its history. This is probably the weakest heroine in the series, however, and the romance a particularly weak one (too much not believing things she says, not sharing important information, not trusting going on).Side-order of homophobia, and the usual working not to be racist but embedding some problematic stuff in anything to do with Zanzibar locals.
I like this series, and M M Kaye writes a fun whodunnit but I had forgotten just how misogynistic some of the characters are - I suppose it is an accurate reflection of the time its set, but sometimes it grates a little against my modern sensibilities. After all - if someone spoke to me like that these days I'd be long gone.....
Probably my favorite of the M.M. Kaye mysteries. Partly because of its connection to Trade Wind but mostly because of the romance between Dany and Lash. Very satisfying.
3.5/5 Oct 2018Found Dani quite young and silly but overall the book was an entertaining reread.4/5 2016Oooh me likey. Not a perfect story but a good old school thriller whodunnit, a mix of Mary Stewart and Agatha Christie with entirely it's own charm. Looking forward to reading more by her.
Fun mystery. Great brain candy. Loved the setting and the time period it was written - a classic beach novel of a sort: mystery, romance, and British characters.
