https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6948436-little-bee
There’s just this hokey feel to it that I couldn’t get past.This is the first time ever for me that I could tell that the author was not the same sex as his main characters, more so when it came to Sarah rather than Little Bee. The way Sarah thinks, the things she says, her observations, and even her interactions with her son just don’t make sense.
It is clear that Cleave failed to unearth his female voice.Speaking of voice, Little Bee’s chapters were much more convincing and enjoyable than Sarah’s.
I would have ranked this higher, were it not for the ridiculous hype on the jacket and the annoying Editor's letter at the front; all of which tell me that is book will change my life, that it's a masterpiece.
This book, which has been obviously extremely well researched, lays bare that lie; in a tight, devastating and tragic tale.Yes, this is a book that carries a very strong message and yes, this is a book that deserves to be read.
Just try not to get too angry about the hype surrounding it - the subject deserves better.
Chris Cleave's ability to float effortlessly between two distinct ethnic voices (Little Bee, a refugee from Nigeria, and Sarah, a young widow in England) as their stories spin out and around and through one another was nearly mystical.Years before this book opens, the lives of Sarah and Little Bee violently collided on a beach in Nigeria, and when sheer determination and courage bring them back together again every secret of their hearts is unfolded before our eyes.I found myself reading and rereading passages, just to fully appreciate the gravity of emotion packed in them.
A sad story means, this storyteller is alive."
“We don’t want to tell you WHAT HAPPENS in this book.
Two years later, they meet again—the story starts there… Once you’ve read it, you will want to tell your friends what happens.
I just didn’t like the parade of clichés rolled out by LITTLE BEE in an effort to drive home the point.No character was a surprise.
When Little Bee talked of telling the story to the girls back at home, I imagined how hard it really would be to relate the events to someone in that distant land.Overall, I found the book contrived and patronizing.
I generally pass on books written by a man in the voice of a woman.
And a white man writing in a black woman's voice?
No, thanks.
But this book gives nothing away up front, and I was hooked before I could worry much about the writer's intentions.The chapters alternate between Little Bee, a Nigerian refugee, and Sarah, an English suburban mom.
I didn't know how things were going to end until I was at the last page.It'll be a movie---no doubt about that.
It played like a movie in my head.
I had hoped this would be a really incredible gut-wrencher, heartbreaker of a book, but I feel like it didn't really live up to the potential it had.
But the 'issues' that were folded into this story left me feeling a little unsatisfied.
I didn't really feel like I could identify with any of the characters.
I could understand her better, but I didn't like her.
The way she derailed Little Bee's story with her own petty concerns and tedious details (those about her career and Lawrence) annoyed me.
I understand the point to the story, I do, I just didn't care because I didn't much like her.
What a rip-off!That’s sort of how I feel about this book.It's the story of two women and how their lives converge.
Little Bee is a 16-year-old Nigerian refugee who has seen her entire village and family brutally murdered.
In the beginning it’s mostly Little Bee. I was completely taken in.
Her story is told in richly detailed moments that take pages to get through.
Her story is also told in detailed moments but I couldn’t wait for it to stop.
There are glimpses of Little Bee in this middle section but it’s as if Sarah’s story has stripped her of all sparkle.
Especially with regard to immigration issues and the tendency of wealthier nations to throw money at every problem in the hopes of making it go away.This book MAY:1)Horrify you.2)Make you angry.3)Shock you.
4)Make you cry.The basic story involves the relationship that develops between Little Bee, a Nigerian refugee girl, and Sarah, a thoroughly modern British woman.
The chapters alternate between the two womens stories.
This is one of those books where it will be impossible to predict who will like it and who won't.
Whatever your opinion about it, you won't forget it!
i cant say anything about the plot of this book because the dust jacket pleads with me not to and i am nothing if not obedient. (but you can read plot points in all the other reviews by rebels) i will say i loved it enough to order in and set aside his earlier book, which had never called out to me before. and this is my favorite cover ... ever.
But the lives of these four people are irrevocably changed by the encounter, and in some pretty dreadful ways.There are some truly wonderful moments in this book, and I particularly enjoyed the chapters told from Little Bee's perspective.
Her voice felt genuine and alive, and I personally think the book may have been more powerful had it been told entirely from her point of view.
The chapters told from the perspective of Sarah (the wife in the above-mentioned British couple) just seemed to fall flat for me in comparison.
Non-blurbed books should only be reserved for the rarest of circumstances, where (a) the book is so ludicrously plotted but brilliantly written that it doesn't deserve being 'boxed in' by its own blurb, or (b) where the book is such an old classic that everyone young and old knows a version of the story in their head (even those who haven't been taught to read).The Other Hand does not fit into either of these two categories, and I'm afraid that the book's mystery generated by a clever publishing scheme has only served to make me think of itas a greedy, money-making 'meh' book that to be frank, I've already forgot half of what I was going to write about it and this book review is feeling a bit of a chore - I wasn't passionate about this book at all.Perhaps I am being a little too harsh though.
This is a book you should buy and not borrow from the library. Just to reward the author for such an amazing and exhilarating experience. Its as much like watching a film as it reading a book because the writing is so extraordinarily good (and clever). And this review is so dry because the author wants nothing of his book revealed. "The magic is in the way the story unfolds," he's said, and yes, it is. And I am sooo going to enjoy hand-selling people this book in my shop. I will have so many happy customers.
I've had this book sitting on my bookshelf for a couple of years now and I don't know why I haven't picked it up before now. Covering a range of subjects this book is beautifully written in my opinion. A terrific story of friendship between two people who were complete strangers. Reading about their lives takes the reader on a journey that will not only have you turning the pages, but it will also leave you wanting more. I have no hesitation recommending this book.
I don’t think I’ve ever read a book with so much light-hearted, warm humour and so much tragedy, often in the same sentence.Little Bee is the younger of two Nigerian sisters fleeing the horrors of the Nigerian oil wars.
Charlie thinks like Little Bee. He sees baddies everywhere and hides in the garden pretending he’s in the jungle.
When Little Bee seems so constantly wary of baddies, Sarah says:
“You’re young, Bee. You don’t know how the world works yet.
Sarah doesn’t know it, but Bee lives her life by always looking for the quickest exit .
Little Bee is an excellent narrator and they were positively engaging/hilarious/touching/curiosity-inducing.After that, the story gets pretty heavy.
It's got a coy little tone with some stylized all-caps, teasing about spoiling for the story for us, the readers, who are about to go on a magnificent adventure, within these very pages!The characters are well-drawn, complex and flawed; and the plot is simple but anchored in questions of morals versus convenience, courage versus fear, first world questions versus third world realities, childhood versus adulthood, true identity versus concealing aliases.
If you aren't interested in the weight of this story, at least read the first two pages when you are browsing in the bookstore or the library.
So many books around in my local book shop are "Summer Reads" so this was a refreshing change.It's the story of Little Bee, a teenage refugee from Nigeria, and Sarah O'Rourke a British magazine editor.
Horror makes their worlds collide and from that moment on, none of their lives will be the same again.The story switches between narratives in the voice of Little Bee and Sarah.
The two central characters are very realistic, and Cleave has captured the personalities of the people around them with such striking honest detail and humour it makes an emotional roller-coaster of a read.This is the kind of book which makes you want to send your family out for the day, lock the doors, take the phone of the hook and just sit and read until you are finished.
Wonderful book. I don't know why I waited! It worked the way the author used 2 narrators to tell this story. The little boy's character was a brilliant contribution --- Adults are no different (we just don't wear our Batman outfit every day). But aren't we always looking for ways to comfort ourselves? Ways to find inner peace? Ways to protect ourselves and those we love?My respect for this author is HIGH!
(view spoiler)[Little Bee's role as a Nigerian refugee and illegal immigrant to London feels true to form, but the roles of Sarah and Lawrence feel contrived and enhanced as if Cleave only inserted them to fill out the obligatory role of Good First World Samaritans who have been burdened with saving a poor African girl in an attempt to clear their own conscious about living a good carefree life in a somewhat peaceful nation.
(hide spoiler)]Cleave's novel actually reads like a sensational, feel good film where the white woman goes out of her way just to save the black girl in hopes of expunging her own guilt of having lived a carefree life.
I loved the first half of the book, but had a hard time getting through the second half.
The story follows Little Bee from her time in Nigeria to her difficult transition to England; as well as a British couple, whose lives become deeply entwined with Little Bee. A lot of the effectiveness of the book comes from the plot twists, so I'll leave the plot description at that.
In my opinion, the most effective parts of this book were those told in Little Bee's voice, particularly in the first half of the novel.
I found the second half of the book pretty dang boring.
A slice of literary brilliance sprinkled with what I can only think of as literary cow pies.I can't figure out why Chris Cleave created so many beautifully written passages and then with the same keystrokes inserted such a horribly rendered and completely unnecessary character as Laurence into his story.
If Cleave had stayed focused on Little Bee and had written the entire book in the same vein as the first few chapters narrated in her voice, this could have been a completely brilliant novel.
Waaaaay overrated!
Loved this book. Re-read today.
The truth is that life is not always happy and that Bad Things Happen.Little Bee is a Nigerian illegal living in the UK.
Cleave's decision to include a prominent 4-year-old boy character does a lot to remind the reader that there is indeed goodness and happiness in the world.Cleave chooses to narrate this book from two different female perspectives.
She's the character who is changing and growing in this novel, coming face to face with evil and choosing whether to fight it or ignore it.This brutal reality that we are presented with - the brutal reality that Little Bee has been conditioned to live in is shocking to most 1st-World readers.
In Little Bee, he not only takes on the issues of immigration, globalization, imperialism, and personal responsibility, but does so in the voices of two unforgettable women, one a solidly middle-class English fashion magazine editor, the other a 16-year-old Nigerian refugee.
The copy makes the book sound like it's going to be one of those faux-whimsical Oprah-type tales, a la The Secret Life of Bees or Before Women Had Wings -- you know, the old "two timid women find each other and before you know it they've engaged in an orgy of personal growth like you wouldn't believe and become their bestest best selves." It's not, but I'm guessing some marketer figured he knew what sells.I also can't figure out why the American publisher didn't release the book under its original British title, The Other Hand, which is a far better title, thematically and otherwise, than Little Bee.
If you want to read about the most depressing events of a human life than this one is for you.
Yes, it is a story that should be told, but I would rather read about just the facts in a news article than something I am reading for "pleasure." When I read I don't need to be depressed about the future of our world and the deprivation of human nature.
Really, do not read this book unless you want to be totally depressed.
There is not one shred of happiness in this book.
Clearly it was not written by a women, to say nothing of a mother.
This story fills your heart so full in so many ways. Should be shared and loved.
My main issue is that the characters seemed to be not real, but metaphors for problems in society and I feel like the end message was that the problems facing refugees and aslyees are bigger than the average citizen and it isn't worth it to get involved -- we cannot change the country dynamics and the bureacracy challenges in our own country are too immense to work around.
That I feel is the author's message.
But I think this may be a harsh judgment, b/c I don't criticize female authors for failing to paint a realistic man.
I think if Cleave had told this story all from Little Bees eyes, I would have enjoyed it more.
These women are thrown together at one point, and Little Bee's life if forever changed.....Sarah though, on the surface, goes on much the same as before.
When things come full circle and they are together again, it is Little Bee who brings changes to Sarah.
He was a nice balance to all the horrible aspects of this story."At some point you just have to turn around and face your life head on." I think Little Bee did just that.
Thought provoking, topical, excellent writing.
I saw great potential for more vivid description of Little Bee’s village life, both before and after “the men came,” and was terribly disappointed that Cleave didn’t elaborate.
The alternating points-of-view do work, but by affording Sarah equal time as narrator, Cleave turned what could have been a truly great, moving work into just a good work.Teenage Little Bee--whom characters repeatedly refer to as a “woman,” much to my puzzlement--not Sarah, seems the stronger of the two characters.
Cleave was intending to show Little Bee’s strength of character here, but Little Bee had experienced deep and very possibly, permanent, psychological trauma at the hands of men.
