https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/364141.The_Dream_of_a_Common_Language
He'd just chuckle, give a gentle shake to my shoulder and laugh and say how cute I was.When I told him I wanted to write, more than anything else, he'd say, “But all you need to be is pretty.”When I got older and I informed him I was going to college, he answered, “Honey, a girl as pretty as you are doesn't need to go to college.” He not only didn't acknowledge my academic pursuits, he didn't pay for them, either.Even knee-deep into my marriage, when I spoke to my father of my professional ambitions, the conversations always turned into, “But you're so pretty, and you're all taken care of, just like I always knew you would be.”In my 40th year, my father finally read a blog post of mine and called me that day, crying, and said, “Honey, you're a writer.
This apartment full of books could crack opento the thick jaws, the bulging eyesof monsters, easily:
It begins:"No one's fated or doomed to love anyone.The accidents happen, we're not heroines,they happen in our lives like car crashes,books that change us, neighborhoodswe move into and come to love."I've read it almost as many times as "Origins and History of Consciousness," in the "Power" group, and find it is sheer excellence of how a writer strives to interpret self and other:"No one lives in this roomwithout confronting the whiteness of the wallbehind the poems, planks of books,photographs of dead heroines.Without contemplating last and latethe true nature of poetry.
They provide interesting insight into both Rich and the time period she writes in, particularly the poem for Audre Lorde.
Wow. This is Real Poetry. Raw and beautiful emotion and tragedy. I felt rather embarrassed to be reading some of these - just from the sense of intimacy that they portrayed, I felt as though I was an ugly intruder upon that.Copied almost all of these down. Power, the 21 love poems. Now to decide which ones to commit to memory.
I read this collection in two sittings, several months apart.
The opening salvo was difficult, deftly constructed and potentially militant.
The tome was placed aside and my interests went elsewhere.This morning, with its megamoon and balmy 0F temperatures saw me grasp it again from my kit bag.
I am glad I did.
These are sinuous verses, targeted to a relationship where the flesh is often generous.
I liked the caprice, the intellectual possibility which occurred periodically.The collection features two poems deliberately attached to historical situations.
I can’t place it at the same level of the William Carlos Williams which I have grown to savor.
I will read this book many times to savor my favorite poems, try to glean further meaning from lines that held tightly to so much emotion and pieces of life and experience.
I realize that all good literature works to create this but Rich simply (or not simply) does it.She writes of a woman's life, of women's lives, of human lives and how they matter in the ongoing work that is LIFE.
Once open the books, you have to face the underside of everything you've loved-- the rack and pincers held in readiness, the gag even the best voices have had to mumble through, the silence burying unwanted children-- women, deviants, witnesses--in desert sand.
It was even simpleto take each other’s lives in our hands, as bodies.What is not simple: to wake from drowningfrom where the ocean beat inside us like an afterbirthinto this common, acute particularitythese two selves who walked half a lifetime untouching—to wake to something deceptively simple: a glasssweated with dew, a ring of the telephone, a screamof someone beaten up far down in the streetcausing each of us to listen to her own inward screamknowing the mind of the mugger and the muggedas any woman must who stands to survive this city,this century, this life…each of us having loved the flesh in its clenched or loosened beautybetter than trees or music (yet loving those tooas if they were flesh—and they are—but the fleshof beings unfathomed as yet in our roughly literal life).III.It’s simple to wake from sleep with a stranger,dress, go out, drink coffee,enter a life again.

One of our instructors, Pit Pinegar, came to camp with a few books to give away.
She held this one up, describing it merely as “poetry by a lesbian poet.” Or perhaps she used the word “feminist.” As a young girl whose life revolved around reading zines, listening to punk, and trying to get girls to kiss me, this appealed to me so I raised my hand high and received the book.
I especially loved the longer, numerated pieces: she revisits phrases and thoughts perfectly to come to her conclusion.
But to be honest, I came to love this book.
Read this slim volume in Adrienne Rich's recently published Collected Poems: it strikes me as easily being her strongest collection. As with Diving Into the Wreck, The Dream of a Common Language rejects the well-wrought formalism of Rich's early work; it instead embraces a subversive aesthetic well suited for Rich's exploration of kinds of female, specifically lesbian, experience that traditionally have been silenced. Whereas the poetry of Diving Into the Wreck often reads as a disjointed accumulation of images, however, these poems have a forceful sense of rhythm that makes them a great deal more resonant.
This may be my favorite of hers so far, and that's really saying something. This was so intimate and visceral. Every time I opened the book I felt wrapped in Adrienne Rich's world in the 1970s. I suppose you could call this confessional poetry, but so much about it is universal.
(whispers in lesbian) thanks
"They can rule the world while they can persuade us our pain belongs in some order." The Dream of a Common Language is the dream for a world without domination. It's a book of a woman who has the introspective ability to express deeply personal things while giving universal themes and feelings a voice. This was my first encounter with Adrienne Rich and it's the collection that was released shortly after she came out as gay. The poems it includes were written from 1974 to 1977 and while they are
The poems it includes were written from 1974 to 1977 and while they are divided into three sections (Power, Twenty-One Love Poems and Not Somewhere Else, But Here.) the underlying theme of the woman is predominant in all of them - loving one, being one.What fascinated me most was how effortlessly Rich moves from writing about the fates of specific (famous) women to stories relating more directly to her own life and how the reader can draw things from both types of poems.
I liked how she works out the meaning of power through her writing, how women can draw power from different sources and most importantly how weakness and power can result from the same things.
My dear friend gave me this book after finishing Wild: From Lost to Found on the Pacific Crest Trail, by Cheryl Strayed.This book by Adrienne Rich apparently was the ONE Cheryl cherished the most and refused to give up.The epigraph at the beginning by H.D. sets the tone:I go where I love and where I am lovedinto the snow:I go to the things I love with no thought of duty or pity.3 sections: Power; Love poems; Not Somewhere Else But Here.I enjoy her lyrical reflections and language.

She speaks for the voiceless in many of these poems; the oppressed, the departed, the silenced.
It's an amazing piece about how each of our bookshelves of the 'greats' is hiding the absence of the greats that never got a chance to speak or be heard -- women, minorities, voices of defiance, the prophets, the poor -- either because they died or lived oppressed never able to speak, or due to silencing.
This was such an important poem for me because at one point in my life I had a significant other who pointed to the lack of female philosophers and mathematicians on the shelves as proof that women didn't have a lot to contribute to new thought and discovery.
the poem, "floating, unnumbered" showed me just how a poem can be read and appreciated for its beauty in words, but once fully experienced in ones own life, only then does the poem enter your body
I enjoyed the first and last section best. The love poems in section 2 were a bit similar in size, style, and sentiment, but she can wax the poetic, all right. I picked this up because I read it has become a "classic" of poetry writing. So soon, too! It's not yet 50 years old! Lots of feminist themes, if that's your cuppa.
I had two problems with this book, neither of which are the authors fault- 1) I am not a lover of free verse poetry.
And 2) finding the rhythm and the beat is A LOT harder to do when the Kindle version of the book keeps condensing lines and changing breaks.
That interferes with the authors intention, and also makes for bloody hard reading when its poetry.
It was quite good, and definitely contains some very important verses that should not be lost to time.
" (...) No one lives in this roomwithout confronting the whiteness of the wallbehind the poems, planks of books,photographs of dead heroines.Without contemplating last and latethe true nature of poetry.
The dream of a common language.Thinking of lovers, their blind faith, theirexperienced crucifixions,my envy is not simple.
I have dreamed of going to bedas walking into clear water ringed by a snowy woodwhite as cold sheets, thinking, I’ll freeze in there.My bare feet are numbed already by the snowbut the wateris mild, I sink and floatlike a warm amphibious animalthat has broken the net, has runthrough fields of snow leaving no print;this water washes off the scent—You are clear nowof the hunter, the trapperthe wardens of the mind—yet the warm animal dreams onof another animalswimming under the snow-flecked surface of the pool,and wakes, and sleeps again.No one sleeps in this room withoutthe dream of a common language."
"Twenty One Love Poems" was a pivotal sequence for me, especially as I grew to understand why I tend to write in sequences. I spent the month of December that year transcribing one poem each day, rewriting and retyping each word to really inhabit what she had done on the page.
This book reminded me initially of Jonathan Lear's Love and Its Place in Nature.
For Rich, as for Lear, love is a part of nature, and Rich's book––rhetorical in nature––argues for a reconstitution of this love, argues against the rhythms our cultures impose on us.
'Twenty-One Love Poems' is Rich's first overtly lesbian poetry, I think, and is generally really excellent and important work.
'Twenty-One Love Poems' is some of the most beautiful and erotic lesbian poetry, but it's also incredibly socially conscious.
I know that ever since I first read this book in college I've carried that line with me.I think Rich creates some of the best images of any contemporary poet - things like 'an atlas of the difficult world' or 'telephone ringing in a labrynth' have an interesting combination of concrete objects and the sensory experiences surrounding them coupled with an abstract concept.
I recently took this with me on a backpacking trip and read through it twice. The poems are accessible without losing their edge. Vulnerable, cutting, powerful. I always feel pretentious writing reviews but these poems are just so damn good.
Raw and beautiful.
mmm
But we are not really friends, and act the part of sisters." (And later, in the same poem) "there were years you and I hardly spoke to each other then one whole night our father dying upstairs words flash from you I never thought of we are translations into different dialects of a text still being written in the original" I allow that the second volume is predictable (isn't love, though, in its trajectory?) and the third is hasty (Rich was probably still firmly entrenched in her second, amorous phase, and borrowing and foreseeing in an abbreviated way for this third; perhaps her later poetry might chart its depths more convincingly) – nevertheless, the project is ambitious and bold, and concerns itself, throughout, with the way a woman communicates with her self, her lover, her peers and her children, in a language that regards her suspiciously, as foreigner.
This collection accompanied me on a solitary road trip over the summer.
I hiked into the property that I grew up on and camped in the woods.
Those woods are haunted with all kinds of angsty, melancholic and beautiful memories of my adolescence.
These poems were the perfect companion.
Cartographies of Silence is wound around the short-comings of language.
Here, the desperation of loneliness and isolation are composed into something mythical.
I was twenty one, and falling into love when I read twenty one love poems, they echoed the song in my heart.
Wow. This work of art is powerful, compact yet filled, and it hit me hard (in a good way).
These poems are about women, their place in the world, compulsory heterosexuality, lesbian love, great heroines of the past remembered, the dream of a common language and yet, the knowing that we are all separate from one another though we drive to be know and be known.
I think if I was hiking the Pacific Crest Trail with Cheryl Strayed, I'd be happy with her decision to hold on to this book, to cherish, and to not burn it.
Thank you, Adrienne, for all your work for this world.
I like Rich for her simplicity and her passion and for her power most of all. Also, for this, from "Phantasia for Elvira Shatayev": this mountain which has taken the imprint of our mindsthrough changes elemental and minuteas those we underwentto bring each other herechoosing ourselves each other this life [Three stars for a recognizable and consistent voice. One peppered with wisdom and lionesses.]
