https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31944951-the-winged-girl-of-knossos
She is smart, sometimes, about practical matters like seeing when her father is heading into a clash with the local priest and needs to move his experiment to a more hidden location.On the other hand, I wasn't all that fond of Inas herself.
She sees nothing wrong with slavery, even though her own mother was a slave, and has only impatience for the misery of the young Greeks who have been torn from their homes forever.
Still, she's not silly like Ariadne.
That's not Berry's fault, the Theseus story doesn't really work unless Ariadne is a sap and Theseus is jerk.
I'll tell you truly, I can't actually review this because I wrote the Appreciation in the back of this magnificent 2017 reprint. What I can say is that for 15 years I've been waiting for this Newbery Honor winner to come back into print. Now it has and I couldn't be more pleased. Hooray!
Lovely adventure story. Before Katniss, there was Inas, a young Cretan woman, the privileged daughter of a famous engineer. Inas dives wish the fishing boats for sponges, is a champion bull-vaulter, she flies and/or glides on large wings that she and her father have designed and built. Ina's is simultaneously rescued by and rescues her love... more like they work together for their own survival. This story is imaginative and wonderful.Badass book, published in 1933. By Erick Berry, pseudonym for Allena Champlin Best.
Ever since Betsy Bird put this long-lost Newbery honor book from 1934 at the top of her list of underrated middle grade books I've been dying to read it.
She also takes a dramatic turn in the bull ring, helps out her friend Princess Ariadne who has inexplicably fallen for one of the boorish Greek captives, and comes to the rescue of her father Daedalus who is causing a stir with his outlandish inventions (including hang-glider-style wings that permit humans to soar with the birds).
Not too accurate, but they use some good famous names and stories which developed into legends, like Diadalos and his labyrinth, Ariadne's string to help find a way out of the labyrinth, King Minos, etc.
That is known.Oh, and the Basque people are not runaway Cretans like the afterword in the book suggests.
That theory never gained credibility, though 80 years ago it seems a lot of people were making wild suggestions as to the origin of Basque.Anyway, the book is fun and exciting, but definitely not great - in my opinion.
Re-interpretation of the myth of Daedalus (Daidalus herein) and his work for King Minos as well as his flights with his son Icarus (gender changed to a daughter, Inas).
Inas is the impetuous daughter of the Cretan inventor Daidalus.
I did find the omissions regarding female dress amusing, but it is a book for children from 1933; women were typically depicted bare-breasted in the frescoes, but Berry just neglects to describe what Inas is wearing in addition to a kilt, i.e. nothing.
The myth has a basis in reality in the depiction of bull-leaping in the frescoes on the palace walls, and both genders participated.
I read this because I was looking for a new diverse book for my 4th graders who study ancient Greece, and I studied Minoan archaeology in my undergrad and grad days (I have an MA in pre-historic archaeology).
It would not be wise to try and justify that scene to a diverse group of 9 and 10 year-olds.With all of that in mind, if you have a child who is fascinated by Ancient Mediterranean pre-history and you are able to discuss this book with them it can be a great read.
One of my favorite genres is retelling of Greek myths.
My favorite author is Mary Renault and my favorite books of hers are The King Must Die and The Bull from the Sea - the retelling of the Theseus myth.
This book focuses on Daidalos and his daughter Inas (not his son Icarus) and just touches on Ariadne and Theseus.
However, it does not read like an 85 year old book.
I definitely prefer Renault's interpretation of the myth and also her vision of Crete at the time, but this was a very enjoyable read and re-inspired me to visit Crete someday.
An enjoyable retelling of the Greek legend that kept me reading even though it’s not my favorite genre. This book was ahead of its time by having the main character be a strong minded young girl. I would have given the Newbery medal to this well written book over Invincible Louisa in 1934 had I been on the committee.
A neat re-telling (sort of) of the Theseus and Ariadne myth, through the eyes of Daidalos' daughter. The writing isn't earth-shattering or anything, but it's a fun story nonetheless.
Interesting to see how radically different the Newbery Award winning book from 1934 is presented, compared to contemporary award-winning books. (Though there's always a special place in my heart for this mythology-type-stuff.)
