https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112755.The_Dark_Highlander
And it's not really a spoiler, but you know how precious some people can be.This cat just had the ending of Shadowfever spoiled...Okay, so this is a romance novel.
One very evil soul...I wouldn't wish twins on my worst enemy!Why do people think parenthood is romantic?
I keep ending these novels with super-happy couples petting their lovely pregnant bellies and all I can think is, "Poor bastards!
When you are done with mixing, separate the brothers in two bowls, each will get his own book.
He actually needs his sex therapy, it keeps him from embracing the dark druids in him.
The most beautiful moment in the book is when Chloe takes his hand when he tells her he and his brother are not in good terms, I just have to put it here:
So I loved this book, it had everything, a great story, a tortured hero, a smart heroine, sensuality to burn the pages and then some XD <3 Moving on to the next
This is my favorite romance book featuring my favorite hero, Dageus!This book is Dageus and Chloe's story in the Highlander series.
He is struggling against the evil inside of him and trying to find a way to banish them when he meets Chloe.
Chloe is a lover of antiquities who finds Dageus fascinating and decides to help him in his quest.
Dageus tempts Chloe to be a bit of a bad girl while Chloe helps him battle the evil inside of him.
I love this entire book!This is an amazing love story full of sexual tension, great dialogue, passion and humor.
“Keep an open mind and heart, because I can tell you one thing for sure: when these Keltars love, they love completely and forever."5 Deliciously Dark Stars!!
In order to save his brother and allow him to re-unite with his true love, Dageus did the unthinkable and traveled back in time to save Drustan’s life.
Chloe walks into his life and “under” his bed and wreaks havoc with his heart!Dageus feels the pull of the evil within him, but like the true hero he is, he fights it, keeps it at bay and does it with his “Chloe-lass” at his side.
5 Delicious stars!Dageus finds himself cursed with evil Druid spirits, after saving his brother's life, by using time travel for personal reasons, which is forbidden by Druid law.
Chloe is sweet and I adored her strong will and determination to save her warrior.Dageus oozes sexuality from the very first page and is everything you could want in an alpha male.
"I'm going to love you know, slow and sweet, but when you come, I'm going to fuck you the way I need to.
The way I've been dreaming about since the moment I saw you."Wow, that man is a walking sex on a stick!
Even if you have not read the previous Highlander books by Moning, this is a must-read book if you are a "fever" series fan.
That's because Dageus, the main character of the book, plays a vital role in the last 3 books of the "Fever" series, ie.
He is inhabited by the souls of 13 ancient evil druids (Draghar) as a panishment for using his power to go back in time in order to save his brother, Drustan.
Together they are visiting Scotland and his brother Drustan and they go back in time to meet his father Silvan.
Her curiosity and love for ancient artifacts proved to be a good thing, since that got her in Dageus's arms, or better, bed.
:) She tried to be very nononsense about everything she got to see and experience around him (like when she first woke up in the 16th century) but, at the same time, she could act rather impulsively (like when she decided to go to Scotland with Dageus - not that he would've had it any other way, but she didn't know that).
(hide spoiler)]All things considered, I really loved this book and will keep reading the series.Note: I had a hard time pondering how to rate this book.
I have not read any of the others in this series, but this reads fine as a stand-alone.
This is the story of Dageus (the "dark" one with the evil Druid spirits possessing him) and Chloe and their HEA.I think I did a few times.
This is flat out B-O-R-I-N-G and has all the romance tropes present.
This was written in 2002, but it's still got that cheesy 90s romance vibe going on.
This pretty much sums up the book:I think I'm just WAY over this kind of romance.
The sex scenes aren't sexy, there's no real plot, the characters are blah.
series is way better.
<3This series in Ratings:#1 Beyond the Highland Mist - 5 Stars !
(Review=https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...)#2 To Tame A Highland Warrior - 1 Star :( [The ONLY book in this series I rated so low.]Here's why->(Review=https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...)#3 The Highlander's Touch - 3 Stars (Not bad but not that great either.*Shrug*)#4 Kiss of the Highlander - 5 Stars !!
(Review = https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...)#5 The Dark Highlander - 4 Stars :) (Review = https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
)#6 The Immortal Highlander - 4.75 Stars !
#7 Spell of the Highlander - 4 Stars.
His mental shields keep the 13 at bay, but just barely and Daegus can only find relief when he is inside a woman.Chloe, a self-proclaimed nerd and lover of antiques finds herself the victim of that old saying, “Curiosity killed the cat.” When sent to Mr. MacKeltar’s New York apartment to drop off a parcel, Chloe lets her curiosity get the best of her and she gets caught red-handed when Daegus comes home, finding a woman searching beneath his bed.
Her nervous hiccups, that stubborn lift of her chin, and the endless love she had for Daegus despite her not knowing everything about the mysterious Scot.
Neyse.Lakin kitabın başları beni delirtti gerçekten.Bir adet hanım kızımız var (ki kendilerine deli gibi tutuldum) adı Chloe.
Dageus var bir tane dark druid.
Sonra çok tatlış birkaç şey daha oluyor, azıcık konuşuyorlar falan falan hop Dageus alıyor kızı öpüyor, kız da manyaaaaaak gibi itmiyor, ne yapıyorsun lan sen kansız falan demiyor çünkü niye desin?
Gerçi bu bir sorun mu bilemedim şu an.Neyse.Şimdi, olayın girişini anlattım ki şunu diyebileyim:Tamam anladık Dageus yapar, kızı alır yatağa bağlar bırakmaz çünkü iskoç.
Tamam, evet gerçekten klişe ama bekledim ne diyeyim benim de içimde bir keko yatıyormuş demek ki.
Ama her şeyi bir kenara bıraktım kitap gerçekten çok iyi.
Chloe has no idea that she's just changed her world forever and that the man who holds the key to ancient Celtic artifacts recently gone missing also holds the key to her heart.It will take them both to set The Dark Highlander free once and for all but can they do it before Dageus gives in to the darker urges pressing in on him, which will loose the darkness on the unsuspecting world and bring about cataclysmic destruction?These two books, along with the final book in Moning's popular Highlander series (Spell of the Highlander) are by far my favorites.
However, no one really told me how much I was missing out on these incredibly ridiculous supernatural scenarioed (yes, I'm going to make up words while I'm here) novels.This book had me making several sound effects I didn't think I could muster while reading: chortling, sputtering and luckily all turning into a good amount of giggle fits of laughter.If you're looking for a good "me Tarzan, you Jane" book, then you'll love this.
Just pages and pages of the stuff adding to the boredom.The story goes that Dageus the Druid left his medieval Scotland via time travel magic to the present day US in an effort to save the world.
There are some funny moments when the flustered Chloe meets Dageus for the first time and he holds her prisoner but that’s not enough to make for an enjoyable read for me.
There’s also too much info on Scottish fairy legend that could’ve been put in an author’s note at the end of the book because it just took away from the story.
I really loved this book. A lot. I can see why it's a fan favorite. It lacked the humor that was in Kiss of the Highlander, but that's to be expected considering the title and premise of the book. I fell head-over-heels in love with Dageus right from the start. His character was multidimensional and fascinating. I could feel his internal struggles and his deepest longings. Chloe is one of my favorite heroines. Her character was delighful and fun to read. I definitely recommend this book.
4,5 Stars - a joy to read - it's romantic, fast-paced and engaging about an amazing highlander and his future big loveBook #2 about the MacKeltar twins.
Just as book # 4 in this series, I read with interest an amazing story about time travel, ancient myths and great love.
The hero, Dageus MacKeltar have ended up in a modern-day New York.
All in all; well written and romantic with an interesting plotI Like - a lovely tale with an amazing hero
I stopped reading romance novels decades ago because their formula is just irritating as hell.
And as romance novels go, this wasn't the worst.But it's still the standard formula.And my serious question is, Why are the women always virgins?And why is their first time always so wonderfully orgasmic?Write a romance novel about a woman who has lived a genuine life, and the incredibly hot and rich man still wants her?Take me to the beach!Why I didn't like this book:Gorgeous brainy, sassy, virgin?
Hello Mary Sue!Uber masculine, LONG HAIRED, leading man who is apparently hung.The FIRST time they have sex, its all bells and whistles.Same formula.
But there were lots of things that didn’t work for me.
What I understand from the previous plot and the blurb is that this book would be a partial dark story but I didn’t feel any darkness.
This book was not entirely safe.One thing I definitely dislike was the first chapter where the hero was having sex with OW.
He was turning evil because of a curse and if he had sex then the darkness somewhat erase.
I understand the reason behind it, but still, I didn’t like it.
“It makes the darkness ease.
asla sahip olamayacağımız ve muhtemelen zaten hiç varolma potansiyeli olmayan iskoç druid bebişime...***kaç para ulan bi iskoç!***Dageus kadar muhteşem ki hani size anlatmak istemiyorum asfadfasdf niye mi?mesela, daha ilk dakkada kızı (kendi değimiyle kadınını :D:D:D:D) elleriyle besledi, tıpkı onur ve şeref sahibi her iskoç erkeği gibi!ilk günde, kıza kendi bıçağını verdi, yani himayesini, korumacılığını.kızı ilk gördüğü andan itibaren ona sahip olmak istemesinden bahsetmeme gerek yok heralde?herif, gitmem lazım ama kadın ne olacak?
I REALLY LIKED THIS BOOKThey say the first step to getting help is to admit that you have a problem so here goes...Daegus's actions toward Chloe in this book are just awful.
So he invites her to go to Scotland with him, so of course she goes.It continues like this through the book.
Of course she's a virgin because Romance Novel, so she is terrified and tries to run but he catches her and takes her before even making sure that was the direction she was ready for things to go.
I LOVED Dageus!!! Even though i really enjoyed the last couple books they were a little bit slow starting for me but NOT this one...this had me glued to the pages from the "get go!" I'm also a sucker for the "bad boy" Whether he was in a kilt, leather trews..yummy!!..or modern day black trousers...the man just screamed SEXY BAD BOY!! This was definitely my favorite so far! :)**i also really enjoyed the story between Silvan and Nellie that ran throughout both Drustan and Dageus' books...very sweet!!!
Loved it as much as Karla & Kellie said I would!! Looking forward to Immortal Highlander next!!Thanks for the recommendation Karla.
In short:Hero 5/5 | Heroine 5/5 | Plot (Point, Originality) 4/5 | Writing Style 4/5 | Steam 3/5 | Romance 4/5 | Angst-Suspense 5/5 | Darkness 4/5 | Humor 0/5 | Secondary Characters 4/5 | Drama-Conflict 4/5 | Mystery 4/5 | Twists 4/5 | Pacing Steady | Action 4/5
Alright, I give this one 3 stars cos of the plot. It was interesting to a point. But I feel like  Dageus' story  suffered a lot because of it. And that is why I'm left a little disappointed & ALOT wanting where his story is concerned. Let me attempt to explain myself... By the time I reached the 79% mark in this book, these were my thoughts...Is it just me or does Dageus seem ALOT hotter, a lot darker than the telling of his story? He's supposed to be the dark one right? The one fighting the
By the time I reached the 79% mark in this book, these were my thoughts...Is it just me or does Dageus seem ALOT hotter, a lot darker than the telling of his story?
Needs to be hotter.Sadly my opinion didn't change.The circumstances that lead you to Dageus & his story, the possibilities I should say, were much more intriguing than the actual reveal of them.
That dark, intense decadence that should have been present throughout the telling of Dageus' story.The immense pressure, uncertainty, & fear that should have been there wasn't.
3,5 estrellas.El libro comienza con esta frase que ya te deja WOW:"Dageus MacKeltar caminaba como un hombre y hablaba como un hombre, pero en la cama era puro animal."Daegus es Sexo con patas, el sexo el recurso que ha encontrado con protagonista para luchar con la parte oscura que intenta apodersarse de y conservar su humanidad.
Vuelven a salir ciertos secundarios que me robaron el corazón del anterior libro y esas partes me encantaron.El final fue trepidante pero el desenlace fue demasiado precipitado para mi gusto, me dejo una sensación rara El beso del Highlander sigue siendo mi favorito de esta saga pero este lo coloco por detrás muy de cerca.
3.5 para esta nueva historia de highlanders; ha sido entretenida pero no está al nivel del anterior libro de la serie, El beso del highlander, aunque igualmente me ha gustado. Me ha sobrado toda la parte "sobrenatural" de la historia y me ha gustado mucho la historia de amor entre Dageus y Chloe y todas las interelaciones con la familia de él.Recomandable para amantes de historias de highlanders, combinadas con viajes en el tiempo.
OOOOOOOOH I'm in love!!! Dageus!!!... and Chloe... but HOLY CRAP DAGEUS!!!! Druid MacKeltar Dageus goes back in time to prevent the fire that kills his twin and as punishment for using the White Bridge for "selfish" reasons gets 13 new room-mates in him. Sounds nice right? but no they are the are the prophesied dark being who hate the Fae who imprisoned them. So slowly they are chipping away at Dageus' good side to break out and go loose on our world. The only thing keeping Dageus together is LO
Druid MacKeltar Dageus goes back in time to prevent the fire that kills his twin and as punishment for using the White Bridge for "selfish" reasons gets 13 new room-mates in him.
The only thing keeping Dageus together is LOTSA tooping and a lovely Lass Chloe who appears at his apartment...
nice meeting finding a pair of legs sticking from under your bed digging through your MAGNUM!!!
sized condom boxes and ladies underwear lol.Chloe although scared of Dageus in beggining falls in love with him and joins him in his mission to save him (at the beggining w/o realizing).
Once again, another hot, steamy and oh, so romantic book.
Heavy sigh… This has got to be my favorite book of the series so far.The Dark Highlander is the story of Dageus MacKeltar and his “wee lass” Chloe Zander.
Chloe is sweet, stubborn, smart, and a little nerdy – especially when it comes to any kind of Scottish artifact or manuscript.
There are some great cultural references in the book.
Dageus even brings Chloe some of her favorite hot and steamy romance novels - The Highlander's Touch.
Of course, what kind of Highlander book would it be without time travel?
He is one of the few heros from a book that has stayed with me long after reading it.
Under his bed...You have to read the book to understand that.If you are looking for a book that sizzles in your hand and yet still delivers a love story that makes you believe in true love, READ THIS BOOK!
While it is part of a series (and each one is great in its own right)it can be read out of order...
(but if you can try and read them in order.
It makes it sooo much better.)When its all said and done you will have had a moment in time well spent and thoroughly satisfying!!!
Fans of Moning's Fever series are going to like this one.
So far, The Dark Highlander has felt the most like a crossover between the two series.
I'm glad that I read Fever first.This book was a rare treat in the world of highlanders and time travel.
I was pleased that the time travel went both ways between present day and the 16th century.Dageus was definitely my favorite of all the Highlanders so far.
At least it's black hair, so I'm shielded from any bad mental Fabio images (*shudders with dread*).Can't wait to see Dageus make his appearance in Moning's final installment of the Fever series, Shadowfever.
