https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87436.The_Hedgehog_and_the_Fox
After reading it I dragged out my old Modern Library copy of War and Peace (which I had never read) and discovered that following Part One of the book (the novel itself, all 1100 pages of it) comes Part Two, Tolstoy's essay on his view of history (about 35 pages).
I immediately read the essay, then put W&P away for another couple years (when I finally did read it, it blew me away - possibly the one novel I would rate above all others I've read).A year or two after this I read The Crooked Timber of Humanity, also by Berlin, and also an extremely interesting book.
Moreover, the actions of the individual are so constrained by their place, their time, their society, their upbringing and the conventions of relations with those around them that the idea of "free will" in any sort of society is false (Tolstoy allowed for immediate physical free will- lifting of one's arm- but as soon as two people related to each other, he no longer believed that it existed)."Great men", he believed were "ordinary human beings who are ignorant enough and vain enough to accept responsibility for the life of society, individuals who would rather take the blame for all the cruelties, injustices, disasters justified int heir name than recognize their own insignificance and impotence in the flow which pursues its course irrespective of their wills and desires." (Tolstoy paraphrased by Berlin.) This explains the extended "fuck you," to Napoleon, most of the Russian generals and even a little bit, Alexander, that was War and Peace.He believed that historians were too apt to ascribe some advance in history to someone's "power" over others, or to "historical forces" or "national forces," all of which are unquantifiable, mystical things that cannot be verified.
"The fox knows many things, but the hedgehog knows one big thing." These are the lines from the Greek poet Archilochus, and a little winding theme from which Berlin draws forth grand thoughts on literature and the philosophy of history.
The long digressions about history were, in fact, central to the book War and Peace.War and Peace, Berlin was a refutation to the idea that all war and human behavior can be predicted.
de Maistre was deeply pessimistic about human nature, and he held fast to the ideas of an absolute monarchy, which used religion as a means to make the people obedient.
Thanks to Ted's review I finally read this essay (82 pages in length) yesterday.I'm definitely not on a philosophical level as such but this work is brilliant. The analysis of Leo Tolstoy and, more particularly, his War and Peace is sublime.I must confess that there are some "thinkers" mentioned that I had never heard of but then that's life...
This is a deeply profound book, which, presumably about Tolstoy's philosophy of history in War and Peace, is actually about the nature of observable reality.
For one thing, I will read War and Peace a third time, and then I will venture into his later nonfiction works such as What I Believe.
Any reflection on a theory of history is timely, it seems, as the world looks back 100 years to the beginning of WWI hostilities, and watches the conflagrations erupting in very old hot spots.On finishing War and Peace I was left with the sense that many critics have, that Tolstoy had a bee in his bonnet that marred the power of his novel with his incessant essays on the myth of the ‘great man’ and the deterministic theory of history: any ‘event’ is the result of an infinite number of other events beyond the ability of individual to capture and comprehend.
Il saggio di Berlin ruota attorno alla figura di Tolstoj, partendo da un frammento di Archiloco: "La volpe sa molte cose, ma il riccio ne sa una grande".
Tolstoj secondo Berlin era una volpe che voleva essere un riccio.
Perso in un conflitto tragico con se stesso e con l'arte come ultimo rifugio dell'incontentabilità, Tolstoj non scrive i suoi capolavori perché si sente scrittore, sa che è bravo come nessuno ma non gli interessa e le prova tutte per comunicare altro, nei saggi peggiora perfino le cose in termini di comunicazione con giudizi portati all'estremo.
If you don't believe that a hundred page essay bordering on literary criticism, history and philosophy can prove to be an unputdownable jaw-dropper, you have to read this essay by Berlin who knew literature and specifically Russian literature like the back of his hand. Even if you are familiar with historical determinism in Tolstoy's War and Peace, you would be forced to revisit the complete tome once again and it is certainly worthwhile.And this is the least. It may happen that this little essay of Berlin would force you revisit your complete world-view with regards to observable and unobservable realities.
Any great novel deserves to be followed by reading what someone else has written about that novel or novelist.
After finishing Anna Karenina, I turned to Isaiah Berlin's famous essay in which he establishes a contrast between those writers and philosophers who are absorbed in multiplicity and distinctions (foxes) and those who know "one big thing," which then becomes the basis for a grand, unified vision (hedgehogs).
Levin, in Anna Karenina is a fox who toward the end of the novel becomes a "happy" hedgehog, a sort of projection of Tolstoy's own frustrated desire.
Whatever one thinks of this paradigm, which Berlin himself acknowledges as a bit overly simplistic, it makes for provocative reading.
You have to read at least the first few pages. Then you will think about hedgehogs and foxes for the rest of your life.
Interesting discussion of the nature and utility of history. Berlin provides an insightful analysis of Tolstoy, his inner torment and contradictory nature. I hope to read more of Berlin's works, he had an impressive intellect.
Berlin is undeniably a brilliant scholar, and he uses his vast learning and his love and sympathy for Tolstoy to dig into and try to explain the perversity of Tolstoy’s theory of history; I found his explanation quite convincing -- and, ultimately, quite moving -- but I’m not able to briefly explain why.
I will say this: I’d previously been thinking that I’d like to read a full biography of Tolstoy to understand this extraordinary artist better; but Berlin’s essay gave me such a brilliant explanation of the man, concluding with this devastating thumbnail of his tortured final days, that I was left wondering what more I could possibly want to know.
I still remember the day when I finished  War and Peace . It was both one of the most triumphant and most perplexing days of my reading life. Imagine me, on a hot summer day, having woken up early to devote the necessary hours to plow through the remaining hundred pages or so of this novel that had so completely dominated the previous month of my life. As I saw the finish-line approaching, my heart began to beat faster and faster—my mouth watered at the prospect of completing this iconic tomb: a
What did Tolstoy have in store for me now?What I got—what all who struggle to the end of War and Peace get—is an essay on Tolstoy’s philosophy of history.
I remember finally reaching the end of it and thinking, “man, Tolstoy wasn’t that smart, was he?” It is perhaps the greatest anti-climax in all of literature.So when I heard that Isaiah Berlin had written a famous book-length essay on the topic, I was intrigued.
It’s short enough to complete on a lazy afternoon, and goes a long way toward explaining that strange piece of writing.Tolstoy aside, the hedgehog vs.
Once I got to the final sections where Berlin discusses Maistre and the intellectual currents of the time, I felt much more within my depth.The book (or rather, long essay) is essentially about the phrase “the fox knows many things, but the Hedgehog knows one big thing“ from the Greek poet writings.
So, while the categorization of great minds, and indeed, intellectual individuals is an interesting philosophical process, it does not seem to be the most important revelation in this book.Rather, the most significant idea presented in this book is its explanation of competing theories of history.
Some of the best bits in the book were:•	“Virginia Woolf half a century later levelled against the public prophets of her own generation – Shaw and Wells and Arnold bennet – blind materialists who did not begin to understand what it is that life truly consists of, who mistook its outer accidents, the unimportant aspects which lie outside the individual soul - the co called social, economic, political realities – for that which alone is genuine, the individual experience, the specific relation of individuals to one another, the colours, smells, tastes, sounds and movements, the jealousies, loves, hatreds, passions, the rare flashes of insight, the transforming moments, the ordinary day-to-day succession of private data which constitutes all there is".
I don't normally learn this much from philosophical writing (e.g. my favorite, Charles Taylor, turns me into an editor at every corner!).
Berlin is my philosophical text gold standard now as a model piece of writing.
However, the subject matter is just as important.
The essay's significance derives from its focused clarity in applying the implications of Archilochus' fox/hedgehog fragment.
Berlin squeezes every drop of possible meaning from the fragment in his readings (and yoking!) of Tolstoy and Joseph de Maistre.
Surely, this is the most important reading of War and Peace, and teasing out of Tolstoy's ultimately tragic project and self-deception.
People simply cannot understand enough to assign the correct meaning to an event, and they cannot understand enough to truly change the course of history.
Berlin starts with the claim that people just cannot ever know enough about every actor in a historical event to truly understand its significance.
Eventually, though, Berlin reveals that Tolstoy had an even stronger belief: that no actor inside of history can ever understand why things happen the way they do, no matter the depth of his study.
The Russian born, British philosopher and critic, wrote this famous book-length essay about Tolstoy’s philosophy of history (as presented and explained in War and Peace) in 1953.
Tolstoy it seems was both, a fox in his fiction and a hedgehog in his nonfiction.In War and Peace, which concludes with a long essay on history, he was both.
Writing this epic, multi-character novel, Tolstoy wrote with an insight and diversity of perspective that actually challenges his summative essay’s theoretical assertion about the impossibility of capturing any true accounting of any event and the idea that great individuals have any kind of impact on the flow of history.
This, for both Schopenhauer and Tolstoy, is the central tragedy of human life; if only men would learn how little the cleverest and most gifted among them can control, how little they can know of the multitude of factors the orderly movement of which is the history of the world; above all, what presumptuous nonsense it is to claim to perceive an order merely on the strength of believing desperately that an order must exist, when all one actually perceives is meaningless chaos -- a chaos of whic
This, for both Schopenhauer and Tolstoy, is the central tragedy of human life; if only men would learn how little the cleverest and most gifted among them can control, how little they can know of the multitude of factors the orderly movement of which is the history of the world; above all, what presumptuous nonsense it is to claim to perceive an order merely on the strength of believing desperately that an order must exist, when all one actually perceives is meaningless chaos -- a chaos of which the heightened form, the microcosm in which the disorder of human life is reflected in an intense degree, is war.
OK, so a publication which is ostensibly an 80 page examination of a Russian author's ruminations on the workings of history might not send most people leaping from their seats and scurrying to the bookshop but this book - like all great works - is is far more profound and widely applicable than its subtitle might suggest.Berlin - a fantastically readable essayist - summarises the historical themes of War & Peace before embarking on an erudite discussion about the existence (or lack thereof) of rules and processes governing the evolution of human society.
Set very much in the context of the debates which framed late 19th Century thinking Berlin teases apart the contributions of the period's cognoscenti to provide some serious fodder for thought.Given the short length of this book, it packs a serious cerebral punch.
A deeply profound book presumably about Tolstoy's philosophy of history in War and Peace and the author's perception of observable reality.
The antique truth, "the fox knows many things, but the hedgehog knows one big thing," first put forward by Greek poet Archilochus, is a concept that Leo struggles with as he lapses between plot and philosophical discussion in W and P (the applications of this concept far exceed his masterpiece).Berlin argues that economists were early adapters of the hedgefox dilemma, burrowing at the same time into minds across several disciplines (Shakespeare was a fox and Nietzsche a hedgehog, allegedly).
A classic.
He reluctantly accepted that systems of belonging do not exist, and was only pushed that far at the end of his life, the exact opposite of Jordan Peterson.
Jordan Peterson is only Tolstoy at the end, trying to push everyone into a system that they're not even aware of, a neat package that they can't attack.
'The fox knows many things, but the hedgehog knows one big thing.' page 1 From the blurb at the back of the book, I thought it would be a discussions of generalists versus specialists, with Tolstoy as an example.
page 2 What started as a parlor trick: find an arbitrary criteria and use it to partition a group of people, is a mere pretext to introduce a lengthy discussion of Tolstoy and how his philosophy is expressed in War and Peace.
What Berlin argues here is that, although Tolstoy was a fox he desperately wanted to be a fox and this was most evident in his ongoing intellectual discourse with the nature and 'science' of History.Tolstoy believed that the driver of historical forces was the internal, intellectual, lives of individuals and that inner personal experiences of the world ultimately provide the 'real' and by extension the 'truth' of History.
He believed, and the greatest strength of "War & Peace" is this, that a reality based on multiplicity that is so complex, so vast, and so personal is the only way to 'know' History.
Sir Isaiah Berlin applies the conceit that human thinkers are either: `hedgehogs" - focused on single topics / world views, or philosophies or "foxes" interested in conflicting philosophies and multiple areas of interest - to Leo Tolstoy.
Sir Berlin tightens his case by limiting the essay to War and Peace.This essay is a classic and far better minds than mine have ruled it to be a masterpiece.
The fact that Sir Berlin limited his essay to War and Peace speaks to the polymath mind that is reflected in the breath of Tolstoy's interests and writings.
Then 9/11 happened, I grew up, and I read The Handmaid’s Tale, which has the forgotten ending section that describes the Gilead timeperiod in the longview of History.In this speech to a historical society, Isaiah Berlin thinks through the historiological vision of Tolstoy in War and Peace.
Also it’s a reminder that being within something can be a frustrating experience, and only seen from a kind of distance can emotional and historical reckoning happen.
"The fox knows many things, but the hedgehog knows one big thing." This quote from the ancient Greek Archilochus is the jumping off point for Berlin's longish essay.
Berlin believes that great writers can be put in one or the other category -- hedgehogs, who have one overriding belief or principle around which they organize their thoughts and writings, or foxes, who follow their minds into many, potentially contradictory thoughts.
Tolstoy's detours from his plot into essays about war and history left me frustrated, confused, and wishing his editor had had a red pen.This book talks about Tolstoy and his views of history (and Napoleon) in the framework of foxes and hedgehogs.
Hedgehogs focus on one world-view and fit everything into that one view.
THis would be a great book to discuss in a class, where I could listen to others.But it did reinforce my understanding of the novel, and of Tolstoy's manipulation of the history of the War of 1812 to fit his own love of country, and his world view.
I can't remember how I originally stumbled upon Isaiah Berlin.
But I've always found his essays entertaining and erudite.
I always feel better for having read them.
Berlin radiates a sort of hard-nosed humanism.
What Berlin does here is invites us to understand Tolstoy's view of history by contrasting it with Joseph de Maistre's.
But, even if none of that interests you, I recommend Berlin's essays to you.
They are essays in the true sense of the word.
They are "attempts," in the tradition of Montaigne, to understand some detail of our collective life, making it better for the effort.
