https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/785453.A_Single_Shard
What a beautiful book.
But it could be thought of as a coming-of-age novel, as it tells a timeless story about taking a journey.
The writing is lyrical in places, which brings the art and nature in this story alive.
The basic outlines of the journey and the related contest might seem predictable, but a flurry of developments at the end of the book caught me by surprise.
The book takes you to another time and place, it gives you some unforgettable images, and it engages important themes in a most satisfying fashion.
Reading the book made the artistry of the vase really come alive.
Kids loved it.
I look forward to reading more by this author.
I love the little glimpses of what the potter's wife does all day, the glimpses into old-time pottery creation, the glimpses of homelessness that isn't completely desolate when shared with a friend and mentor, hard work and creativity.
If it was my book, I would have marked quite a few pages.
Really, though, some books are full of "one-liners," great & succinct little thoughts.
It felt like the kind of multi-culti book that committees like because they think it will be Good for You, as opposed to it simply being good.
I think the prize committee might've been suckered in by the simple prose style.
Pointedly-simple prose is apparently supposed to be some kind of hallmark of deep "Asian" writing.
And no, it's not like Hemingway either, that's a whole other kind of simplicity (the good kind).
I didn't like Ha Jin's "Waiting" for the same reason.
Anyhoo--- Won't be keeping this for the kids.

, جاءت فكرة النص للكاتبة وهي تبحث عن تاريخ كوريا القديمة فلفتت نظرها بعض العبارات عن الفخار الكوري و
Beautiful story... Beautiful book.
1. Lời giới thiệu gần như là tóm tắt tác phẩm. Đọc xong hết muốn đọc sách.2. Nhưng mà vẫn phải đọc. Vì đây là sách thiếu nhi. 3. Tác giả viết rất có nghề. Đọc phần chú thích của tác giả ở cuối truyện thấy tác giả tìm tư liệu rất công phu. Nói chung là đáng nể.
Bascially it is the story of an orphan boy Tree-ear and his dream of making pottery.
Review: The book is one of those warm fuzzy books that makes you feel life is beautiful.
The best way to describe the book is to let it speak for itself."...work gives a man dignity, stealing takes it away.""Soon the winter rode on the back of the wind.""...but the curt words swept over Tree-ear like cool rain over a patched field.""But you must not tell your body.
A quiet but, beautiful book.PS: The end notes were very intresting and enriched the story.
A master storyteller who drops a trail of historical breadcrumbs, I learned that the Japanese kidnapped Korean potters because they would not share their trade secrets around the 1600's; the Thousand Crane vase that inspired her to write, A Single Shard, is owned privately by a museum that opens two times a year (and even then there is no guarantee you can see it because it is only shown during a ceramics exhibition); that first-time authors have to sell a minimum of about 5,000 books after publication in order to get a second printing, and more.
Tree-ear, an orphan that lives under a bridge only had one goal.
One day when Tree-ear was spying on him, Min spotted him.
They had a long conversation and they came to an agreement for Tree-ear to assist Min for a week.
After a week, Tree-ear asked if he was allowed to keep working for him.
The next week, the embassy came to choose a special potter.
Min was chosen, so Tree-ear had to bring his creation to the embassy.
Since Min felt bad for him, he told Tree-ear that he would finally teach him how to make a pot.
Oh, it’s true that the potter is a true artist when it comes to his pottery, and the one-legged old man can weave a mean pair of sandals out of straw, but these kinds of powers don’t cut the mustard on today’s best sellers list.It turns out it is Linda Sue Park who has the super powers.
Using the insight of a true artist Linda Sue Park ignores what modern society would compel us to seek—security—and instead has Tree-Ear seek the creation of beauty.
My children have a theory about book awards.
To them, that little gold circle is a warning lable.They have a point.Still, I liked this book a lot.
(Although it makes me angry when books make me cry, so from now on I'm deducting a star for the death of any characters I like.
So yeah, as a parent I love the main character in this book.
I'd suggest that my children read it so some good manners could rub off on them, but alas, they'll see that warning lable circle on the front cover and refuse to open it.
جميلة هذه القصةهذه هي المرة الأولى التي أقرأ فيها قصة تدور أحداثها في كوريا:)كانت صناعة الأواني الفخارية شرفا عائليايتوارثه الأبناء عن آبائهم عن أجدادهمإلا أن "ترى-اير" كان طفلا يتيمايتجسس خفية على العجوز مين صانع الفخارإلى أن أصبحت صناعة الفخار هاجساحلما يطارده..وأنى له أن يوقفه!أحداث بسيطة غير معقدة تشبه في انسيابيتها ملمس"زهرية الألف غرنوق"وجدتها بالعربية في جرير
Set in Korea during the 12th century, a homeless boy’s life gains meaning as he works for a potter and eventually finds a calling and a family.Tree-ear is a 12-year-old orphan who lives under a bridge in a seaside village with an elderly crippled man who cared for him as a child.
Min, a short-tempered and difficult potter, reluctantly allows the boy to work for him and Tree-ear eventually takes on the task of delivering a vase to the royal city, a journey that is both long and important.
Park's Newbery Award winning book tells the story of Tree-ear's desire to sit before a potter's wheel and one day hope to create a vase so beautiful and detailed that it is worthy of suceeding his master's unreachable level of skill.
Tree-ear is probably one of the most realistic characters I've ever come across in any book, not just in one particular genre or subgenre.
The secondary characters were every bit as realistic and contributed every bit as much as Tree-ear did to the story.
A Single Shard comes highly recommended, a work that deserves every award it's received.
Tree Ear goes to work for the master potter, Min, and he learns the craft of pottery making as he finds new family and a new place in his village.Response: I have never read a book set in Korea, and I love historical fiction, so this was a wonderful historical fiction reading experience.
As we all turn to a more green way of living on the earth in our time, I think kids will be interested to learn how most people through history have lived in better balance, and historical fiction (this book in particular) can help develop this awareness.HISTORICAL FICTION
This was a good read, a wholesome read! It was clean, uplifting and enjoyable. I really liked the story, including some of the "wisdom of life" comments and discussions that occur between Craneman and Tree Ear. I also appreciated the extra information and notes that the author included at the end to explain more about celadon pottery. I would definitely recommend this book!
This is children's book that won the Newbery Medal in 2002. I squeezed it into my day yesterday, even though I'm working on a reading challenge that doesn't include this one. But it was short, and I loved the cover. This author has written quite a few books for this age group, and I admire that kind of dedication and desire. And this felt age appropriate, so hooray for that.The MC was orphaned but I liked the points about his character that the author highlighted. A younger age group could identify with his thoughts, desires and feelings. 3.5 stars.
I hate to be so harsh on this book, but I was forced to read this in class which means to me that the teacher thought it was so good that we writers could learn from it.
And this isn't really giving anything way, but I think this scene is a perfect example about how Tree-ear really can't do anything wrong.
Okay, so giving it the man that raised him is super nice.
See what I mean?I know this whole review sounds really negative, but it's not a horrible book.
I don't think it's a great book, but it's not horrible.
. A moving story which takes places in Korea and it has unforgettable characters:  Tree-Ear, a young orphan with determination, selflessness and integrity;  Crane-man a sacrificing lame man who found him and has lovingly raised him with the philosophy that "stealing and begging....make a man no better than a dog." They live under a bridge in a potters' village and survive on rubbish and grains of rice which fall out of others' bags home being under a bridge; Min, a sour, demanding cranky man who is the village's the most talented potter.
Grade Level: 4-6This is a beautiful tale, set in 12-century Korea, about an orphan boy named Tree-ear, and his quest to learn the pottery trade.
Tree-ear begins to pay off his debt with back-breaking work for Min, in the hopes of one day learning to sculpt his own pot on the wheel.
A helpful guide at the back explains her inspiration for the story, along with some of the historical research she used for the book.
There is a natural tie-in for the arts, which could be easily integrated into the book study.
The book a single shard written by Linda sue park was inspirational and good view but i frowned upon the way this message was delivered and in what setting i did not like it.
this book had a central idea and that iss to hold your hut head high through thick and thon and help the unfortunate even though you are more misfortune + and so on on page 4 the boy saw a man pick his sack of rice up and shifted and then when he began to walk a stream had started to pour out of the pouch an was loosing a lot of rice.
It is a story of a 10-year old, homeless orphan named Tree-ear in 12th century Korea.
They struggle to eat and stay warm but this 10-year old has a secret indulgence...he goes and watches a master potter work at his wheel.
He goes in for a closer look and when the potter finds him there, he startles and knocks a valuable piece off the shelf and it breaks.To pay the debt, he works for the potter but once his debt is paid, asks to stay on and work for him in hopes of one day becoming his apprentice.
I need to go back and reread this. As I recall, I absolutely loved the book. However, I thought it would be a very hard book to booktalk unless the child already had an interest in pottery. But the story itself was absolutely gorgeous. Tree-Ear's solution to his problem was brilliant. His refusal to give up after what seemed like complete defeat was inspirational. I definitely need to reread this some day!
This book was wonderful! My son read it for one of his literature books for homeschool and just raved about it. I decided to read it on his recommendation and was not disappointed! I love this history behind it. I love the story of hard work and perseverance. The expressions of love and loyalty are so touching. Great book! I was left wanting more!
An enjoyable juvenile read, emphasizing the power of determination, loyalty, integrity and perseverance.
4 1/2 stars
I liked this even better the 2nd time.
I loved this book. It made me a little emotional. Ended up being a nice feel good book.
It was really cool to read something that takes place in 12th century Korea, since that's a time period and place that I've never read about before!
I thought it got the message across really well, and made the story read almost like a fable or fairy tale in the telling of it.
Tree-ear was a strong character whom I enjoyed reading about, and while the other characters weren't quite as developed, but I really did enjoy Tree-ear's relationships with these other characters such as Crane-man, Min, and Ajira.
But the way that it tied in with something that's still around today was really cool.
