https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4570768-willow
Serious addict to cutting who cures herself via uncomfortably overbearing sixteen-year-old boyfriend?
Guy is a sixteen-year-old kid, which means he is unlikely to devote himself to an intense relationship with a very troubled girl that he hardly knows.
But let's be super nice and say there are a few sixteen-year-old boys out there who would do this.
Let's recap:Willow is sixteen years old, and she is hurting herself.
Because now she's got her boyfriend Guy!Does this sound like a healthy relationship to you?
I am fully aware of the devastating tragedy that Willow experienced, (just typing her name makes me pissed) and you should know that I'm not by any means making light of the situation.
No. Did I like that Guy did not tell about Willow's cutting?
No. But did I still think Willow treated him like crap?
(woah, that sounded like I was getting turned on)For instance:Chloe and Laurie (the two most stereotyped, two-dimensional girl characters to ever exist in the land of books) are talking about some stupid crap that I couldn't care less about.
Example:Willow felt like she was going to throw up.
I’ve honestly written this review almost five times and haven’t been happy with what I’ve spit out.
I’m not sure I can do this book justice.
I mean sure it sounded interesting, and I’ve read books about eating disorders, drugs, so why not try cutting.
Had it not been written from Willow’s POV, I know I wouldn’t have found it as impressive as I did.
And it’s not only the characterization of Willow that’s impressive.
Willow is about so much more than cutting.
Still haven’t done the book justice, but I’ll leave you with this.
Yes, cutting is a painful subject to read about.
NO.  Just fuck no. This is not a self-harm story.It is a love story, featuring a cutter. It is the story of a codependent relationship that sickly revolves and surfaces through self-harm issues. I have been struggling with heavy self-harm issues for years, I was a cutter and just about a year ago I finished with my treatment and recovery, and I am appalled and also slightly insulted by knowing that a story like this is out there. Worse, that people think it's a sweet story. Willow is a 16 year
Willow is a 16 year old that self-harms - and for what it's worth I will say that the author did portray Willow's motive and the feeling and need for cutting quite well, but apart from that this book was shit.
Why?Because the reason why Willow stops cutting, is because she meets a boy, a 16 year old named Guy. Guy barely knows Willow (one previous encounter to be exact) when he finds out about her cutting, and immediately he wants to 'help' her.
Holy freaking (insert swear word here)!!The Good: Be prepared for some serious fan-girl gushing!
It's like Green Eggs and Ham. I read Willow when I sat on a stool, I read Willow lounging by the pool, I read Willow here and there, I read Willow FREAKING EVERYWHERE.Secondly, the cutting.
She gave us the truth and the way that she portrayed Willow's cutting, made me absolutely entranced in the story.
Yay for possibilities!The Bad: I really cannot think of anything wrong with this book!However, I do have a little complaint.
Honestly, Willow is one of the best books I've read all year.
(view spoiler)[Willow kisses Guy and freaks out, realizing that she's not ready for a relationship.
Please tell me that you’re sure.” So basically, what Guy is saying here is, I don't think you're ready for sex at all, but hey, let me keep taking off your bra!So they're in the midst of foreplay and Willow asks if he has protection.
(view spoiler)[The thing that really annoyed me is that, even though Willow's brother realizes she had sex, he doesn't seem in the least bothered by the fact that she's jumping into a relationship she doesn't seem to be emotionally ready for.
The one person she wishes to remain close to is her brother, but after rendering them both parentless in a fateful car accident, Willow can’t bring herself to bridge the communication gap that seems to have befallen them.
***spoiler alert***While it is wonderful that Willow finally seemingly gives up her cutting, I can’t help but think she never would have done so if it weren’t for Guy. That’s not how it should be.
In fact, anyone struggling with an addiction or disease similar to the one that Willow faces within this book are advised by professionals not engage in romantic relationships until they have become self reliant in battling their disease.
Ever since then, Willow has felt disconnected from the world.
But everything changes when she meets Guy, the only one with whom she can possibly share her secret.
I did not like Willow.
I understand that I probably should pity her, her being responsible for her parents deaths and all, but she makes it so damn hard.
Based on the character of Willow alone, this book would have gotten two stars.
Thankfully, the intense writing and topic made me really like it.
Overall, parts of this book and others parts I didn't like at all (aka Willow).
If anything could ever show just how damaged some of these girls are, this book is it.Apart from being a wonderful book, I really think that Willow has the potential to help girls who suffered from problems similar to the ones addressed in this novel.
Very few teenage girls with these kind of issues want to read a self-help book, go to a counselor, or talk to their parents.
The best part about Willow is that it has a redemptive quality about it: no matter how long the problem has gone on; no matter how you think it's never going to stop; there IS a way to control it, and to end the suffering that comes along with it.Read this book.
After my last review, this is kind of going to be hard to swallow, but...
this book is not as bad as I remembered.
It'll never be my favourite, but, props to Julia Hoban for writing on such a touchy subject.
Even if it was full of comma splices.
It wasn't great, but...
it's not abysmal either.
Characters were decent, writing was fine, plot was fine...
Maybe it's the suject, I don't know.It's not of the same quality as books I love, but...
I'm not going to hate on it for that.
Since the story is such a character driven piece it was essential that Willow felt real and this is where the book excels.
I don’t think I have a read a book with character that felt more real.
A confrontation between Willow and her brother had me so overwhelmed I had to put the book down for a few minutes before I could read on - I was just so invested in the story and Willow’s journey it felt as if her pain was mine.
Willow feels guilty for 'killing' her parents in a car accident.
I usually find it interesting to read about people with problems and how they deal with it, but Willow is just too much.
If people look at her it's because she killed her parents.
If they don't look at her, it's because they are ignoring her, because she killed her parents.
If people are talking, then it's about how she killed her parents.
If there are two people on the other side of the school yard talking to each other and both seem oblivious of her presence, then it's still about how she killed her parents.
Willow is a real, honest, and emotional book.
It's beautiful.The characters in Willow are real people with complex emotions and personalities.
So many books are just full of stereotypes but Willow is full of character's so lifelike it's hard to believe they aren't actual people.
I also really love the world that the author has created for these characters.
None of those things happened, I think having the deep emotional factor that it has only enhanced the reading experience and made it that much more meaningful.
Every time I had to put the book down I daydreamed of picking it back up and re-joining Willow's world.
Tan malo que hasta Abzurdah fue más entretenido, así que se pueden imaginar...Me siento culpable por haber odiado a una chica que perdió a sus padres pero no pude evitarlo, la odié.
Lo único que rescato es que Guy no haya sido el salvador en el primer momento y que haya costado que confíe en él.
Igualmente me pareció precipitado que la charla entre David y Willow haya sido 10 paginas antes del final y que no se haya enterado del problema de Willow, fue un mensaje erróneo.Un libro olvidable, que a una persona sensible como yo no le trasmitió nada y no solté ni una lágrima.
[...] she's breathing shallowly. she watches as the blood springs from the cut she's making, but it doesn't change anything. not this time. she swipes again, deeper. now she feels pain, but will it be enough?  a few months ago, willow lost her parents in a terrible car accident. knowing that she was the one who drove the car makes it so much worse, because she has no one but herself to blame for the death of her father and mother. now, she has to live with her older brother david and his famil
willow finds comfort in the angry welts she inflicts on herself through a sharp razorblade, but when she gets to meet guy things slowly begin to change ...more and more young people injure themselves, --participate in self-mutilation.
having more books out there dealing with people who try to cope with a painful event certainly does help to grow awareness on what a serious problem it is and how widespread already.when guy saw the cuts, he thought she was suicidal, but no, she wasn’t.
Instead he tries to get closer to her to find out what leads a person to hurt themself in such a way and to try to help her out of the dark place she's in.This is the first time that I read about "cutting" in such detail and although a bit on the descriptive side, it was not overdone or gory.
On the other hand, Willow's pain is so real that you can actually understand why she would feel the urge to cut herself...
Catching a glimpse into a painful part of a young woman's life.This novel is not just about cutting - it is about love, hope and forgiveness.
She hates her strained relationship with her brother, all the things left unsaid and especially his inability to even talk about their parents.
She would rather feel a physical moment of pain than to deal with feeling anything emotional.
Willow's journey is not a feel-good-story.
With all that being said, I hate that it sort of took a guy to pull Willow out, like he was the cure.
People are fickle and a lot of us bail out when things get too tough.
It's so sad to me that even if you stop cutting, you will always have those scars.
This one just didn't grab me. Ended up skimming most of it.
I read this book a couple years ago and towards the ending of this book It get graphic and I had to put down but I ended up liking it at the end
This book really opened my eyes! It was emotional, but yet so powerful. The writing in this book flowed so nicely, and it was just beautifully written. I loved the relationship between Willow and Guy. I also liked how it took a while for their relationship to progress, instead of everything moving too quickly. This book is great, and I recommend it to everyone. Especially if you are a teenage girl!
I just know that this was beautiful and sad and dark and considering this is the second emotional book I've read, it might be wise to read something a bit lighter now.
For at least trying and for letting herself be helped despite how incredibly hard it is.
For not just thinking of herself despite everything in her life.A hug for Guy for being amazing and sweet and strong.
For being there and for sticking with her despite how hard it is for him too.
For helping her move on with her life and getting her to look at things differently.A hug for this book, which has left a massive impression on me.
I had one issue with Willow and that was the fact that she tended to think the worst before truly knowing someone's thoughts, and at first I did not think that I would be able to connect with her or any of the others, but I found that the further I read the more I connected.
Is gives the message that everyone feels things differently and we don't know what those feelings are and before we judge someone and their issues, we need to realize those things first.I recommend this book to anyone who likes realistic, emotional stories.
Bueno, al parecer hubo un accidente automovilístico en el que Willow iba manejando y sus padres murieron entonces ella quedó al cuidado de su hermano mayor, David, pero siente que es una carga para él y que todo lo que hace causa algo o simplemente lo hace mal, entonces ella se corta para sentirse mejor o para salir del torrente de cosas que recuerda del accidente.
Para empezar, tengo algo con el tema principal del libro, que es una chica que encuentra cierto desahogo o alivio cuando se corta, realmente nunca he entendido el por qué hacen eso y esa es la principal razón de lo poco atractivo que se me hizo el libro, más que nada porque nunca se deja de hablar de eso.
It completely numbs Willow’s other pain.This pain, this physical pain, was flowing through my veins like heroin, and I was numb, immune to the rest of it, I couldn’t feel anything but the pain, and I knew that I had found a way to save myself.
As she meets Guy, a senior in her new highschool who finally knows her secret.Guy can’t let Willow keep injuring herself.
And Willow won’t let herself to feel anything but pain.
Things are intense in their earlier talks, but as the time progresses, Willow starts enjoying Guy’s company.
Or would she become too addicted to pain?You won’t know the answer until you reach the last page.
Willow handles the feeling of loneliness and the anguish of residing with her busy brother by desperately drowning herself in cutting.
Cutting is a painful, yet practical thing for someone who is trying to escape their reality or sad situation.
Every time Willow cut I wanted to scream, and sometimes I had to shut the book for a few seconds.I adored the awkward romance between Willow and Guy - the unsureness of the pair made it seem more realistic.
Willow was not the most likable protagonist (understandably) and Guy was a bit too perfect, but together they shined.
I felt bad for Willow because she started to cut herself to make her feel better, whenever she’s sad, instead of talking to her brother or anyone, she cut herself.
I really loved this book and the romance that was woven into Willows life when she really needed someone to talk to and someone who would listen to her without judgment.
I loved the characters: Willow, Guy, and Willow’s brother.Julia Hoban description is beautiful; it helped me understand the pain Willow was going through.
You know it's bad when you can't work up much sympathy for a character who's just lost her parents.
I just couldn't bring myself to like Willow, no matter how hard I tried.
I totally understand that she was going through a lot and struggling but I still don't think it's an excuse to act like nobody else's problems are real.
Willow seemed to think that just because she'd gone through something awful, NOBODY else's feelings were valid.
No problem other than Willow's was worth crying about.
I think the story did have potential.
willow blames herself for the accident and relieves her emotional pain by cutting herself with razor blades.according to the book jacket, "and then she meets guy, a boy as sensitive and complicated as she is.
it's all about willow being this tender, vulnerable, delicate girl in pain, and guy feeling the need to protect and save her.
he even refers to himself as a replacement for the razor blades:"Willow." Guy bites his lip.
guy and willow have sex for the first time after willow has a breakdown, realizing she's not anyone's daughter anymore and that no one will care for her the way her parents did.
Let me just clarify that this book is NOT about self-harm; it's a love story that features a girl who cuts herself.
I don't get why people are raving about this being such a "sweet and inspiring story" because, once you face it yourself, you realize just how bad this book is.There is so much to cutting and other forms of self-harm than just the act of it itself.
I am not saying that love can't help someone through self-harm, in fact, the friendships I've made and the people that I decided to talk to about it have helped me emmensley, it just doesn't work how Hoban had it work.
I can, however, say that after reading this novel I stand behind Guy’s (her male friend that intervenes) decision to do everything in his power to help her, to show her that there are other ways she can release her pain.Guy is an interesting character.
He’s a strong character that simply tries really hard to show Willow that she doesn’t actually want to hurt herself that way.
If for nothing else, you’ll want to know whether Willow actually destroys herself.
There is help out there, even if you think you don’t need it or you don’t want it.Willow speaks for itself.
