https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144629.Giles_Goat_Boy
His first two books belong to a pre-Barthian, existentialist phase while his third and fourth, Sot-Weed and Goat-Boy present Barth in his golden phase.
So, to the Goat-Boy. Upon publication of The Sot-Weed Factor reviewers persistently noted that it was structured according to the classical analysis of world mythology known as the Hero's Journey.
It goes something like this and some similar diagram Barth pinned up on his office wall as he began to intentionally write a parody of the Hero's Journey with Giles Goat-Boy. A shorter version of the Barthian parody of the Journey can be found in Chimera.So, that's the synopsis of Goat-Boy. And it's masterfully written.
The last Barth I read was Lost in the Funhouse, which I dismissed as dated experimental wankeroo (Barth was the keenest postmodder of the lot, and this collection reads like the marking of territory), and before then the excellent The Sot-Weed Factor (which bears no notable resemblance to Sorrentino’s 1983 novel Blue Pastoral) and the hairpulling Coming Soon!!!
The first part, or “tape,” (the story is, implausibly, all spoken by GILES into tapes handed to Barth in the preface), is chock with ribald larks and a network of satirical plots and comic characters that keeps the story’s ventricles pulsing, although it soon becomes clear—beside the obvious “quest” narrative—making sense of the other strands is a pointless exercise.
Though winning a fair measure of benefit-of-the-doubt on sheer absurdity, Giles Goat-Boy seems ultimately to have been a rather pointless shaggy-goat story: a seeming philosophic survey-course that, after oscillating between improbable extreme positions, leaves the reader right back at the start and no better for it.
What are these called?Note on socio-linguistic accuracy: Like The Enigma of Kasper Hauser, this story has little or no interest on the cultural, psychological, or neurolinguistic effects of actually having been raised by goats.
The novel is a more metafictional and metaphysical version of the textbook referred to between the covers that contains “such a staggering variety of sexual practices, stunts and exquisitries as to make ordinary genital intromission seem as tame as shaking hands.”Yet, somehow, for all its sexual frankness, the Goat-Boy perspective enables the reader to observe the human race without any sense of prurience, embarrassment or disgust.I hope our next alien visitors get to read this book before they arrive.You Beist BeautyOne of Barth’s Beatnik characters argues, "The worst thing about that old prudery...it made everybody so afraid of their desires.
Black cap and gown of naked Truth, it screened from the general eye what only the few, Truth's lovers and tutees, might look on bare and not be blinded." (hide spoiler)]Even though the Cold War scenario dominates much of the campus politics, its narrative importance is mainly restricted to Max Spielman's flashback of the events leading up to Giles' birth.
Apart from the lives of religious figures, the journey also uses elements from the classical texts like The Odyssey, The Aeneid, & Oedipus Rex. In his essay 'Mystery and Tragedy' Barth has analysed in detail the heroic framework for Giles Goat-Boy & his debt to Campbell's book, The Hero with a Thousand Faces Eastern Mysticism & the Western Tragic View.
So, is it quite as funny as it thinks it is? Probably not. Are there some issues with the representation of and attitude towards black people and women? Yup (even after properly distinguishing between narrator, character and "author" (yes yes, i know i know)). Do some bits drag? Yup. Does its satire and its focus seem a little dated at times? Sure. Does any of that matter in the slightest? Nope.
I had never thought Barth sounded particularly interesting, and I only checked this book out from the library because its premise sounded so weird and I was idly curious; now I want to read everything else he's written (which is a lot).Giles Goat-Boy takes place in an allegorical alternate world in which the whole of earth is a single university, with colleges instead of countries, chancellors and deans instead of presidents and kings, and "Grand Tutors" instead of religious leaders.
Barth set the tone for many of us (circa 1965) as we prepared to limp through the momentously bad joke: existence.Scary, unadorned humans running in circles, gathering as much money and corporeal comfort as possible in the shortest amount of time on the backs of others while foreshadowing their fear of the dark with gods of the conveniently unreachable sort, make a back drop for Barth's solution.
So what if he takes 7-800 pages to say: Don't Worry, Be Happy!
A bad joke.
So take a seat, sit back, be nice to one another, and work hard at not taking yourself so seriously.
Sure, he really can write - the Goat-Boy is no exception - and it's fun to meet some of his usual themes in early form, but for everything I enjoyed in the book (the series of meta-textual framings, a truly fun parody on Oedipus, the rather insane set-up with the whole world consisting of universities, the giant all controlling computer and early musings on AI) there were lots and lots of things I really did not enjoy: The rapey sex comedy stuff, which it defaults to all the time, is almost unbearable, and the weirdly aggressively offensive stereotyping hard going- even by the standards of the late 60s.Now, it's not because I can't handle the standards of another era - I love Lovecraft, even though he is an old racist asshole - nor I do not get easily offended or anything, hell, both Mano's "Take Five" and Gray's "1982, Janine" would go on my desert island list.
NO es el Plantador, ni es Gaddis, pero algo como esto no merece llevarse las cuatro estrellas que he estado a punto de darle sólo para evitar comparaciones.
'I'm ok AND what the heck anyway.' The Cubs' 71-year "billy goat curse" has now been retired, maybe this book's butting obtuseness, its strutting and rutting lubriciousness, its labyrinthine 'flunkedness' of "understandabilitywise" can retire too the stayawaydom of reading this overreaching gem of a John Gray humanity is flunked no matter what against progress per se.
So, and so, there's no review once again, but, damned if I'm not engaged and enticed to go grab the other JB books yet not read and continue to marvel at this mind's elasticity, his contempt, story-telling ebullience and yes, verbosity with a [purpose] maybe?
An exercise in literary onanism.Just like this site.
what. the. fuck.normally i don't get pissy about books i don't completely understand. but seriously. this is too much. plus it was way way way way too long. and too much gratuitous sex/weird words used to describe gratuitous sex (which i don't normally mind either, but this was so out of control it got boring). plus, like the floating opera, it's weirdly racist: the black men are horny half-animals and the women are seductresses. i take that back. not weirdly racist. just flat out racist.redeeming qualities? i really liked leonid. and sometimes it was funny. other than that....ugh.
4.5/5I waver in giving less than 5 stars to this monstrous comedy slash mirrored prophet's tale slash cold war comedy. Barth is funny, but not in the sense that he makes you laugh. His comedy is of the thought kind, in that I have read a hero's tale of a boy raised by goats who believes himself to be the last great prophet of his own religion. The book is incredibly well written and indeed very thought inducing. There shall be more Barth books read by me.PASS ALL FAIL ALLUpdated 8/7/15 to 5 stars
Al joven se le encarga una serie de tareas cuando se matricula y tiene que aceptar tanto su caprinidad como su humanidad (por no hablar de su maquinidad) y, en las entrañas mismas de la Universidad, trascender no sólo las categorías que representan ambos campus, sino también todas las demás; trascender incluso el lenguaje, y después regresar al campus a la luz del día, expulsar al falso Gran Maestro, que él entiende que es un aspecto de sí mismo, y hacer todo lo que esté en su mano para explicar lo inexplicable.”Según podéis ver por la trama, muy anclada en la realidad que conocemos no parece lo que nos lleva al siguiente punto.–Alegoría: “Figura que consiste en hacer patentes en el discurso, por medio de varias metáforas consecutivas, un sentido recto y otro figurado, ambos completos, a fin de dar a entender una cosa expresando otra diferente.
I’d thought I’d read Giles Goat-Boy a few years ago and didn’t remember much of it because I just wasn’t enamored, despite my lifelong devotion to John Barth.
Some complain about the racism and sexism in this book and that would be with good reason, if any of this could be taken seriously, but again, it’s all so abstract and allegorical, and the characters, well, so silly, I found it hard to be offended.I’m making it a long-term project to read or re-read the first six Barth novels in preparation for Letters, which will be a new one for me and which, I understand, relies on knowledge of the first six.
It’s one of my favorite books of all time, and never fails to comfort, delight, amaze, and amuse.

He tenido que hacer una pausa con el Plantador.
El mundo de Giles es relativamente fácil de seguir y la metáfora política es divertida y reconocible, pero las aventuras del niño cabra exigen manga ancha y bastante atención.
Unos años después llegarán los laberintos sin salida y las cajas dentro de cajas que nunca terminan, como la Broma de Wallace o el Arcoiris de Pynchon, pero Barth navega aquí en esos márgenes, no se llega a zambullir.
Que mis peros no despisten: es una maravilla absoluta, una exigente maravilla.
Dude...you think with all the raping in this book you wouldnt need a dictionary to look up every 5th word but alas it aint so. so besides learning a shit-ton of new words, this book is kind of a play off of the world slightly futuristic slightly medieval except countries are universities and Giles Goat Boy is pretty much some sorta prophet tryin to throw a rock in the system but half the time hes just followin his goat-like urges. heh. its long, and pretentious as all hell with the words...but yeah, i liked it
Ack. I feel like a cat who needs to throw up.The author is very clever, no doubt. His wordplay, repeated denials of authorship and lampooning of the University structure are good points. Aside from this, however, there is too much dragging the book down. The book is bloated navel-gazing, and only becomes more and more tiresome as it 'progresses', boring you further and further as its once-clever puns become agony to read.
Giles Goat Boy, as with most of Barth's writing, cannot be summated by anything short of a novel in itself.
This is not a bad thing by any means, as the work can be read fluidly first - then meticulously, to fully benefit from Barth's genius.
The Cold War, Homeric Epics, Religion, Sex, and the pretentious atmosphere of Academia are among the many tools Barth utilizes to allegorize the ridiculousness of society as well as one's place in the world.
Hysterical and timeless, Giles Goat-Boy tackles so many issues with such finesse, Barth makes postmodernism actually seem appealing.
I enjoyed The Sot-Weed Factor, but not this one near as much. A little boredom, a little annoyance at the rape and juvenile sex mindset--just didn't fit my recent mood. Perhaps I'll visit this one again sometime in the future. I think Barth is generally interesting and a talented writer, but times, they are a' changing.
To start off, I don't feel this book is long-winded by any means; It's just winded enough with all the flatulence.
To start off the novel with the "Editors'" reluctance to publish, rejection of manuscript and another's remonstrating of the other editors' opinions takes some big goat balls and a certain amount of ego to shape this novel into the narcissistic bundle of joy that had ever been authored by a computer.
Some 20 years later Allan Bloom wrote "The Closing of the American Mind" in which he outlines a model University life and Education that New Tammany College seems to produce; a conservative, racist, hierarchical and Platonic educational system that is plagued by the nature of sexuality.
I was 37 and I'd spent a lot of my life reading books.
So you can imagine how infrequently I had the thought "this is the strangest book I've ever read".
Best of all, it's a deadly anti-academic humor.
It helps to have spent years in academia (particularly if academia drove you nuts, as it did me) to really appreciate Barth's humor.
I loved reading it.
I'm sure I wont read it again, though in some ways I wish I could.Probably not the best book to start experiencing Barth.
Hats off to the kind of imagination that can produce something so different.
I actually enjoyed this book more than "The Sot-Weed Factor." There is actually a similar theme running through the two books, though by no means is Barth rehashing old material and I did actually like this one better. The world of this book is just so interesting, a strange mix of the world as a university, Judeo-Christian material, the cold war, and others. Strangely approachable for Barth, this is probably my favorite book of his so far.
I got half way through this and have liked almost everything else I have read of Barth. This one seemed clever for clever sake and the characters were very one-dimensional. Too long, I have other books to get to and seemed overly repetitive.
I read and liked this book so much in college that I taught it in Freshmen English. As far as I know, no one in that class committed suicide as a result.
Just one of those books you had to read. It was a fantastic work by a since-forgotten great American author.
I love how fantastical and weird and hilarious this book manages to be while maintaining the allegory throughout the entire epic story. Vintage Barth.
Barth is a revoltingly stupid author.
