https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143747.The_Windy_Hill
They had always liked him, and when he visited their family home he had always been cheerful and interested in whatever they were doing, but in his own home he was distracted, and clearly something was troubling him.When things got too much for Oliver, he decided to take a walk:“He had not meant to when he came out through the pillared gateway of his cousin’s place, he had only thought that he would walk down the road toward the station – and see the train come in.
While not quite as brilliant as the other two Meigs books I've read so far, this is a pleasant story.
One of the most interesting elements is the series of flashback stories, each taking place around the Windy Hill at a different period in American history, which have apparently no other connection at first, but have the link between them revealed late in the book.
The rest of the story seems to be set in the present day (the book was published in 1922), and I almost felt that Meigs was more skilled and perhaps more at home in dealing with historical periods.
This didn’t have the most complex plot, and it was relatively predictable.
However, its charm was pretty compelling.
I liked the gentle moral guidelines, and the ending suited me well.
The story flowed smoothly without getting boring, and I felt like all of the characters grabbed me in appropriate ways.
I appreciate when authors give a very casual push in how to treat people ethically.
If people are cruel to you, you get to be cruel to them back, right?!
hmm.
The book laid this out with the naivety of two children trying to help their uncle and figure out the family history.
I enjoyed the stories of formative family history that are interwoven with Meigs's front story line, and the charming nature of the whole book overcomes what to me is a highly unrealistic character change.
A history of a family. Story develops is a interesting fashion through supplemental stories and a bit of intrigue.
Newbery Honor Book. It's probably unsuited for the internet generation, but I enjoyed the slower pace.
The main story about Oliver and his sister helping their cousin Jasper is ok. The real treasures are the intermittent flashback stories told be the Beeman. It is worth the read for those three short stories. If those could be pulled out and published separately, they would be well received. My rating is actually more of a 3.5 and I might have leaned towards 3, but it deserves more than the 3.39 that it currently has, so I had to go to 4.
Pretty good story. I like the format of telling stories to explain the family history that the children did not know about. Some of the characters are fairly distinct, like Oliver and the Beeman, while others seemed little more than placeholders. However, for a children's book written in 1921, it's not too bad.
This book can be a good choice for a child who loves to read and will enjoy a wholesome mystery. The story does move a little slowly at points, so it's not a good choice for reluctant reader. Most readers who make it to the end will enjoy how it comes together and be glad they read it.
One of the earliest Newbery Honor books, The Windy Hill is the story of two teens (Oliver and Janet) learning about their family's history via stories told by the mysterious Beeman while they stay with an uncle who is under some kind of duress. Overall, this is the most moralistic of the books from the 1922 Newbery cycle. I read this for my 2017 Reading Challenge "read a book published between 1900 and 1950" (Read Harder) and my Newbery Challenge.
A charming, children's book set in the early 20th century. There were interesting historical flashbacks set within the story, a bit of mystery/a puzzle that needed piecing together, and satisfying character development - for a kid's book that is.
Each month, from January to October, participants read Newbery medal and honor books from each decade in which the award has been given.
(This book will also count toward the Newbery Reading Challenge at Smiling Shelves and my own Old School Kidlit Reading Challenge.)In the story, Oliver and his sister Janet are spending the summer with Cousin Jasper, who seems aloof and troubled for reasons the kids can't quite figure out.
One day, in the midst of attempting to run away after a disagreement with Jasper, Oliver meets the Beeman, who begins telling him stories.
And that sets the theme - readers are encouraged to use their heads to figure out the mystery before the end of the book reveals all.The writing reminds me of Mary Stewart (The Moonspinners, The Arthurian Saga), with passive prose and lovely descriptions of nature/gardens weaving around a mystery.This book isn't PC by today's standards but, for parents who plan ahead, this book offers an opportunity to begin discussion about changing stereotypes and the history of both racism and misogyny with their kids (example, the use of the highly-offensive word squaw to describe Native American women).
In 1934, Ms. Meigs received the Newbery Medal for her book, Invincible Louisa, a biographical account of the life of Louisa May Alcott.In The Windy Hill Oliver and Janet Peyton have traveled to Medford Valley to spend a portion of the summer with their mother's favorite cousin, Jasper, who in the past has been of spirited and cheerful disposition but at the time of the children's visit is visibly troubled and anxious for reasons unknown.Oliver finds himself at sixes and sevens with his cousin and decides to take a walk down to the train station several miles distant, perhaps with the intent to return home.
Newbery Honor 1921Good, engaging story with likable characters.
These are good stories, and it all eventually ties together, but I wish they had been a little more connected textually.
They were in separate chapters, and I found myself disoriented if had chosen to stop reading at the end of the previous chapter.I don't think this book as aged quite as well as others.
Because of this, and because of the tension and sometimes violent nature, this is more suited to upper middle grade readers than lower, but I do think it could be enjoyed today.
In 1922 the first ever Newbery Award was given for the book The Story of Mankind.
That book was impressive as in 'oh my, I can't believe anyone actually wrote this book.' This book, the Windy Hill, is impressive as in 'oh my, that is an excellent book.' In my opinion, The Windy Hill should have won the first Newbery Award.The Windy Hill is full of stories which come to life in a little valley where everyone knows everyone else.
And the ending was perfect.
This book did not make me cry, but I decided that it is deserving nonetheless of my 5-star rating.What does the book end with?
I wasn't sure what to expect because I had no idea what it was about but it quickly surprised me.The main characters are Oliver and Janet, siblings that come to live with their Cousin Jasper.
They notice that Jasper is not the same person they knew before.
At the beginning of the book, Oliver is actually running away but then he runs into the Beeman.
The Beeman asks for his help with his bees and tells him stories.
You will have to read to the end to find out what the stories are really about and who the Beeman really is.
3.5 stars1922 Newbery Honor BookThis book was quite engaging, I enjoyed the characters and trying to put together the pieces of the puzzle as the author presented them.
Strongly moral and gung-ho for capitalism with individual restraint: unsurprising early Newbery fodder. It features the only land transaction between a native American and an immigrant one that was mutually understood, agreed upon, kept to, and, get this, financially honest, that I have ever come across in fact or fiction. Propaganda, ahoy!
This is a Newberry Honor Book from 1922. I loved Meigs' descriptions and the characters. It is a mystery of sorts and there are such engaging stories within the main story. I really enjoyed them the most!
I'm not sure how this qualified for a Newbery, but in my quest to read all of the Newbery medal and honor books, I'm glad I was able to finish it. I downloaded this onto my kindle at no charge from Amazon.
It was good and quick read. The choice of words by author were enticing. Some of storytellings were incorporated in this book by one of main characters. There are some life lessons and motto throughout the story.
2d3a9e95-6f29-4cde-adc4-8c79da9e0c15
The opening book to my project turned out to be "just okay". Reminds me a bit of the Bobbsey Twins.
A 1922 Newbery Honor book - Nice story!
Newberry Honor Book 1922
Newbery Honor recipient. not the worst I've ever read, but pretty low down on the list.
http://digital.library.upenn.edu/wome...
My Favorite of the 1922 Honor books. Glad I am finished with that year. Wow. Fun to find out what people back then thought were good reads. :)
