https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33149088-say-you-re-sorry
3 Slow StarsAfter two years grieving for her husband’s death, Morgan decided it’s time to get back to being her old self.
Her first case after two years is the murder of her occasional baby sitter (Tessa, eighteen-year-old).
Morgan and Lance knew each other since high school.
They think maybe these two case are connected to each other somehow.Okay, this story was really, really, really slow.
I even didn’t bother to think about the cases.
It’s the first installment in "Morgan Dane" series but it can be read as a stand-alone.
I really didn’t enjoy it.
This novel eventually has some decent twists – clues uncovered by prosecutor Morgan and private eye Lance.
When Morgan returns home to a small town after the death of her husband, she’s about to take a promising job when a beloved neighborhood girl turns up brutally murdered and the seemingly nice boy Morgan has known for years is accused of her death.
Morgan volunteers to defend him because she can’t believe Nick did it.
Morgan and Lance uncover clues that the police, who are already convinced Nick did it because they found his DNA inside her, do not.
This novel was OK, but not compelling enough that I’ll be reading anymore books in the series.
Suspenseful story.One girl murdered and one missing. Good supporting family and some with lots of troubles. Also renewed relationship starting. Action, suspense, thrills of lawyer and two private investigators. More like 2.5 stars for me.
As I read this book, many things occurred to me.1.
My fridge needs a new box of baking soda!Oops, I'm reading this murder mystery!
I was re reading the same paragraph over and over again because I would just drift.
(like in high school) If that's not a sign that a book had a capital B for Boring (For me anyhow) I don't know what is.The writing is average and lacking life and originality.
The main characters needs so many more layers.
reading this book made me realize I got shit to do.This just didn't float my boat.
The book is written through the eyes of several different characters and Leigh does an excellent job of making you care for the two main characters (the Lawyer—private detective duo, Morgan and Lance).
They have a very flirtatious relationship and banter a lot —- reminding me of the old television series “Moonlighting”.
There are a lot of unexpected twists and turns that make the book hard to put down.
But, all in all very entertaining, and I will definitely be reading book #2 in this series to see what happens to these two likable characters
Morgan Dane has returned home to Scarlet Falls with her 3 daughters Ava 6, Mia 5 & young baby Sophie after her husband John was killed in Iraq an IED exploded killing him.
I also am intrigued whether the budding romance between Dane & Kruger goes, hopefully it will be a bit more written in the 2nd book Miss Leigh teases the reader by adding a bit of romance in the end.This is my first read by Melinda Leigh and wont be my last I am not into full on romance / suspense but this was a big surprise & the best thing is I've found a new author which makes this more enjoyable & rewarding.
4.5 Stars!Say You’re Sorry was a fantastic start to the Morgan Dane series, with wonderful characters and a compelling mystery that kept me guessing right until the very end.After losing her husband in Iraq, Morgan Dane has returned to her hometown of Scarlet Falls to raise her three girls with the help of her family.
With the help of an old friend turned private eye, Morgan begins her investigation and aims to prove her neighbor is innocent and the real killer is still at large.Morgan is an incredibly strong character and really brave despite the difficulties she's facing while defending Nick's case.
Morgan Dane is a widow with young kids living with her father and a troubled young woman she has pulled into her home.
But before her job can start, she is pulled into looking for a girl, Tessa, who had babysat her young children.
Nick's dad doesn't have a lot of money, is working to mortgage his house for Nick's defense and asks Morgan for help.Putting her new job on the line, she teams up with Lance to prove Nick's innocence and find the real killer.
The plot is really well paced as Morgan and Lance search for the killer of Tessa and try to prove the innocence of Nick.
3.5 starsI have read a few other books by this author and quite enjoyed them. This one wasn't bad. Seemed to drag a bit. Romance is not high on the agenda here and it could have been. But maybe in the next in the series.Ok, it's an old picture, but you get my drift ...
She is a widow with three little girls to raise, a grandfather to help care for them and a young woman living with them who has serious medical issues.
Her occasional babysitter, Tessa, goes missing and Morgan calls her old high school flame and former Scarlet Lake Police Officer, Lance Kruger, to help her find Tessa.
At first the evidence points to Morgan's neighbor, Nick.
How can a young man who reads stories to her little girls and plays chess with her grandfather possibly have done this?Morgan's answer is: He didn't.
Morgan Dane has returned home to Scarlet Falls with her three young girls after the devastating loss of her husband in the military.
Morgan decides to help defend Nick and do her own investigating with the help of Lance Kruger, an ex-cop turned private eye, to get her client off and find the real killer.
The story is a romantic suspense read that changes the point of view all throughout including some chapters from the prospective of the killer.
Morgan however is the main character in the story, a former attorney who became a stay at home mom that is just returning back to work.
I had the extreme privilege of reading an Advanced Release copy of this wonderful new series by one 
Former Prosecutor Morgan Dane and her three young daughters have returned to her hometown of Scarlet Falls, following the death of her husband while serving our country in Iraq.Now that she's near family and old friends, and with the promise of working with the District Attorney, she feels she's finally ready to put her grief aside and start her life again.All goes well until her teenage babysitter is found murdered.
Nick was a frequent visitor in Morgan's home, entertaining her daughters, playing chess or checkers with her father.
Nick's father begs for help for him and Morgan agrees.
Great start to a series!Morgan Dane is a widowed mother of three girls.
Morgan calls Lance Kruger, an old high school boyfriend, whom she has become good friends with since her return to Scarlet Falls.
When Nick, her 20 year old neighbor, and friend of the family, is accused of killing his girlfriend, Morgan agrees to represent him pro bono.
She goes to the PI office Lance works for to ask for their help.
Morgan and Lance work well together.
Lance is dealing with the loss of a job that defined him and trying to figure out his future.
This is the first book in the 'Morgan Dane' series and I really enjoyed it.
Morgan is a lawyer who has returned to her home town to take up a job with the DA's office.
She is a widow with three young daughters and lives with her grandfather who raised her.Just before commencing her new job Nick, a neighbour is accused of the brutal rape and murder of a local girl.
Morgan opts to ditch her new job and take on the defence of Nick.
In doing this is she throwing away her career?
Is she ostracising herself and her family from their own community?
4.5This was a tough listen in some parts.
But the fact that I cared about the injustices happening to fictional characters says a lot of good things about this author.The story was fluid and kept me on my toes.
It's more mystery/suspense than romance.
But that's fine with me.
I didn't figure out who done it with absolute conviction.
This is a good thing.I look forward to more in this series.
Hell, there is a relationship to grow and more bad things that are happening in this small town.
I look forward to it.
She is a widow raising three young children with her maternal grandfather, who just happens to be a retired cop and a young woman living with them who has severe medical issues.When her babysitter, Tessa goes missing and is later found dead, her boyfriend Nick, a teen Morgan has become familiar with, becomes the police’s number one suspect.
In an effort to help Nick, she turns to Lance Kruger, an ex-cop turned private eye and long-ago boyfriend now friend for help.
I thought the suspense was good and Morgan and Lance are a very sweet couple although the romantic tension dragged out a bit too long.
I am still relatively new to the thriller genre, I like to dip my toe in every now and then, however, in this book Melinda Leigh has tempted me to belly flop right in. Say You're Sorry captivated me from page one as you witness the murder first hand, after that, it wasn't a want, it was a need; I needed to keep reading and find out the full story.Morgan Dane is our main character, she's been widowed for two years and has 3 adorable small children, who she parents with the help of her father. No
Say You're Sorry captivated me from page one as you witness the murder first hand, after that, it wasn't a want, it was a need; I needed to keep reading and find out the full story.Morgan Dane is our main character, she's been widowed for two years and has 3 adorable small children, who she parents with the help of her father.
So with the help of her private investigator and former high school boyfriend, she decides to take up his defence.This book is so easy to get into, Morgan is such an identifiable figure, a single mother trying to do the best for her children and now juggling a stressful job.
I have not read the Scarlet Falls series that was published before this, so some of the connections were not clear at the beginning of the book, but it did not diminish the enjoyment I had while listening to this book.
The narration was well done with a lot of expression that added to my enjoyment of the story.After losing her husband in Iraq, Morgan Dane has returned to her hometown of Scarlet Falls to raise her three girls with the help of her family.
I really enjoyed the working relationship Morgan and Lance have.
Finding it hard to believe that the same boy who regularly plays chess with her grandfather and spends time in her home among her daughters is capable of such a heinous crime, she agrees to take on his case.
The author gave you many opportunities to place blame on multiple persons only to take back the gleam of hope that you figured out the case.
(My only objection was that perhaps there were too many possibilities.) A pretty good mystery, well written and perfectly ended to engage the reader in future cases and investigations for Morgan and Lance.
I personally can see this story and future stories of Morgan in a Hallmark movies and mystery series.
It took me a little while to get into Say You're Sorry, but I ended up really enjoying this mystery thriller romance.I borrowed this in audiobook format through Amazon Kindle Unlimited.
This is probably one of the best crime thrillers I've read in a while, and that is for a couple of reasons:1) Super-fast-adrenaline-punch narrative:  From the first page of the book until the end, you will be riding a roller coaster that never stops.
No. It's super fast, a lot of things are happening and it really is what a thriller is supposed to be: thrilling.
Each time you feel like the roller coaster is about to stop, something booming happens: you'll see that you haven't reached the end of the ride, but merely arrived to a peak in the ride, and should brace yourself for the steep fast spiraling descent to come.2) The main characters: Morgan & Lance:  I honestly loved them.
But what looks like a simple teenage case of murder unearths a whole load of secrets and several twists that I didn’t see coming, which made the ride more exciting.
I liked both Morgan and Lance together, and loved their partnership which seems to bode very well for the next few books that Leigh has in mind.
’Say You’re Sorry’ is however, more focused on the suspense than romance, heavy with the potential of Morgan/Lance which sort of remains unfulfilled by the end of the book, but I’m hoping there’re more to come that will deepen this relationship between the both of them.
Living with her grandfather and a teenager rescued in a previous Scarlet Falls book, two years has passed and Morgan decides to return to work as an ADA.
Lincoln is more than just the ex-detective who worked Lance’s missing father’s case, he has been a father figure and an enormous help with Lance’s mother.When Morgan’s sometimes babysitter, Tessa is found raped and violently murdered, the blame falls on her boyfriend, Nick.
Morgan turns down her ADA job and decides to not only defend Nick against false charges, but to find the real killer with the help of Lance and Lincoln.This book takes off and keeps a fast pace throughout.
The storyline bops around for different points of view-- Morgan, the boy accused and the killer-- as the crime is investigated and days go by.
It was a good mystery.
I ended up listening at 1.0x which is really slow for me but what suited her narration best.
She did a good job with the male/female voices.
My main quip with her was the children's voices (Morgan's kids).
But she did a good job with pacing and once I was used to her voice (couple chapters) it was easy to get lost in the narration and before I realized 11 hours had passed in less than 2 days.
I am still relatively new to the thriller genre, I like to dip my toe in every now and then, however, in this book Melinda Leigh has tempted me to belly flop right in. Say You’re Sorry captivated me from page one as you witness the murder first hand, after that, it wasn’t a want, it was a need; I needed to keep reading and find out the full story.Morgan Dane is our main character, she’s been widowed for two years and has 3 adorable small children, who she parents with the help of her father. No
Say You’re Sorry captivated me from page one as you witness the murder first hand, after that, it wasn’t a want, it was a need; I needed to keep reading and find out the full story.Morgan Dane is our main character, she’s been widowed for two years and has 3 adorable small children, who she parents with the help of her father.
So with the help of her private investigator and former high school boyfriend, she decides to take up his defence.This book is so easy to get into, Morgan is such an identifiable figure, a single mother trying to do the best for her children and now juggling a stressful job.
My MusingsWow, another fantastic book by Ms. Leigh. Really enjoyed this one. Great characters and amazing plot. Can't wait to read more books from this talented author.Happy ☺reading 📚!
Will she succeed or will she face a tough, uphill battle that could turn deadly at any time?What a highly entertaining, fast-paced, gripping read Ms. Leigh has penned in this book, encompassing well-written dialogue that kept me enthralled from start to finish; a plot with lots of twists and turns that kept surprising me and had me determined to discover what would come next; and two main characters that were determined to do what was right in seeking justice for the victim no matter how dangerous things became.
A young woman is brutally raped and murdered and her boyfriend stands accused in Melinda Leigh’s Say You’re Sorry. Attorney Morgan Dane steps in to defend the accused, making herself and those closest to her the targets of a community on edge and a killer determined to protect himself at any cost. Multi-layered and swift-moving, with a smart, likable, kick-ass heroine who is no one’s damsel in distress, Say You’re Sorry is the opening volume of Leigh’s new Morgan Dane series. (Advance Reading Copy obtained by request from NetGalley.)
It's a spin off of her Scarlet Falls trilogy series and features the sister of Stella Dane who was the heroine in the last book of that series.
She enlist the help of a childhood friend, Lance Kruger who is currently working as a Private Investigator for Lincoln Sharp.
Great start to the series with a strong female lead who uses her intelligence to solve problems, can psychically take care of herself but yet also isn't afraid to show a vulnerable side.
He and Morgan work great together along with Sharp and I look forward to seeing them solve more cases together in future books.
