https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/765651.Silence
------------------------------------{Review}{sentence start}. . . . . . . . . {time} . . . . . . -.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.{PERIOD}-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.{comma}_|_|_|_|_|_|{PERIOD!}+++++{QUESTIONING STATEMENT?}______________{DEFINITIVE STATEMENT!!!!}- - - - - - (QUESTIONING STATEMENT?) >>>>>> {DEFINITIVE STATEMENT!} ()()()()(()() {questioning statement?}.......(DEFINITIVE STATEMENT WITH REGARDS TO QUESTIONING STATEMENTS' MENTAL CAPACITIES!} ............ {time} ...... {hurt question?} ..... {BRUSH OFF REPLY.}{question?}- - - - {RASH ASSUMPTION} - - {quick reply!}...{QUICK BACKPEDALING} ->-> {immediate statement!} -> {FUMBLING REPLY WITH MUCH REHASHING OF PREVIOUS IDEAS AND SOME CONFUSION} --> {assertive, crushing, definitive statement!} --> {EMBARRASSED PAUSE}--------------------------------------
I said, "In that case I will devote my life to beating my head against that wall."One day while I was composing, the telephone rang.
A lady's voice said "Is this John Cage, the percussion composer?" I said, "Yes".
We're going to save you for Robinson Crusoe."In Zen they say: If something is boring after two minutes, try it for four.
So, recalling the expression "free as a bird", Morton Feldman went to a park and spent some time watching our feathered friends.
When he came back, he said, "You know?
E' libro da leggersi con la meraviglia e l'ingenuità che si deve - per tacito patto - a tutti quei bizzarri visionari americani che sparsero nel tormentato orticello della musica novecentesca gioiose sementa che non implicavano alcun manuale teorico d'uso ma solo un mix di congenito pragmatismo ed esaperato individualismo di Waldeniana memoria.Silenzio - finalmente ristampato in maniera eccelsa nella sua versione integrale dalla Shake, e verrebbe da chiedersi perché una piccola editrice di frequentazioni underground e non una più blasonata collana tipo pbe, ma la risposta è abbastanza ovvia- è uno zibaldone pensieri, scritti, concetti, aneddoti, conferenze, che richiedono letture oblique, aperture di pagina casuali, una predisposizione a lasciarsi contagiare da quella felice ebrezza che è intimamente connessa alla lettura (e all'ascolto) del verbo del signor Cage.
I kept running into John Cage, mentioned by many people, from the point of view of music, of poetry, of modernism, or contemporary art.
He kept turning up, but I just never actually read any of his work, or even listened to what he has done.
I haven't actually listened yet, but I really enjoyed this strange book, which I read most of, some parts I skipped, but I think that would be the point.
Everything about him kind of explains the way he thinks about music and art, and I just loved it.
Silence, how I wanted to like you. But there was so little to actually grasp onto. Some charming anecdotes, yes. But that was about it. Mostly, it was just a morass of chance operations imposed upon the typography. I mean, bonus points, for being theoretically rigorous. However, those same techniques that make John Cage's music so fascinating are a complete disaster when applied to writing. I know I'm not grooving as mystically as Cage would like me too, but I just can't get behind this fucker.
Personally I think the craziest composer of the 20th Century is indeed very loveable!
The lectures and writings are incredibly clever; half of the book does not even mention music!
The book gives an insight into the type of character Cage was, and that makes his avant-garde music even more charming than it was in the first place.
There is a lot to say about this book, but I think it would be better for anyone who wants to read it, to find a copy and read it!
Cage was a great multidisciplinary artist and it's a shame that he is best remembered as a musician. Its hard to imagine anyone appreciating his music without first being exposed to his writing. Incidentally, Cage taught at Black Mountain College, the college that I attend in daydreams after graduating from Hogwarts.
I'm not a big fan of (his interpretation of) Zen. Doubtless an innovator, but this feels really dated and is mainly just an historical document, though he can be quite charming and funny.
But nearly everything Cage articulates in his essays about rhythmic structure, space, thought and non-thought, music and silence plugs directly into the kinds of tense obsessions I find myself working through daily as a language person--and I found myself rethinking much of my own approach to 'working' while reading these pieces.
I think Cage takes a more innovative approach to documenting the mind, and its influence over the shape of an innovative nonfiction, than most writers I read.
I'm kind of astonished by the degree to which his 'music'-based theoretical framework allows him to shatter and multiply the communicative space of the page.
Yes, his voice still sounds fresh in the next century.
This dear sweet gentle soul turns upside down notions of performance, composition and art.
Thus his compositions for multiple radios, ambient sound, random occurrences in the performance space...
His project to remove the voice of the composer is hard to wrap one's brain around, it could be seen as a cop-out, or as an overly 'oriental' approach to doing a job (that of organizing sounds for an audience's consumption).
At its heart it can be a signpost pointing upward, toward a notion of purpose and intention that is larger than any one person.

Repetetive and rather less clever than I think it thinks it is, but not without any redeeming features. The play with form justified the reading, but it was not an enjoyable experience. Might recommend at a push.
http://tumblr.austinkleon.com/post/14...
A recent article by Joan Acocella in The New Yorker tells us that "Sometimes I thought that if I heard Cage or one of his followers banging a stick on a stick or blasting static on a sound system one more time I would run screaming from the theatre..." And earlier on, one of the parts of Cage's Lecture on Nothing was "the repetition, some fourteen times, of a page in which the refrain, If anyone is sleepy let him go to sleep." Cage reports that Jeanne Reynal, I remember, stood up part way though, screamed, and then said, while I continued speaking, "John, I dearly love you, but I can't bear another minute." She then walked out.
Surprisingly in his book titled "Silence," Cage talks very little about his most seminal work.
The book is still appropriately named as he takes the notions of his piece and applies it to writing.
Much like a lot of avant garde, this book through essays, letters, lectures and criticisms is at various times wonderful, maddening, exhausting, vibrant, long winded, funny and thought provoking.
I said, "In that case I will devote my life to beating my head against that wall." So yeah, that's Cage.
Cage takes his principles on sound, silence, form and time and applies them to literary terms (he first wanted to be a writer).
As much as a bellyache about plot, characterization and setting, how often I might criticize the “dream of fiction,” which creates the illusion that what I’m reading is real, the literary avant-garde is a hard road to travel.
Maybe it’s easier, more passive, to listen and watch then it is to read.
It’s a technique that doesn’t lend itself to deep reading.
Which brings me to John Cage and his book SILENCE, a collection of early lectures and writings.
Cage worked from a process that informed his composition and he uses that structure to present his spoken and written work.
But, you know, I'm trying to read more broadly, and about things I'm unfamiliar with, and that's why I read this.
I was interested in places, but never very deeply or for very long.
It is perfectly possible that, had I more musical knowledge, this challenging book would have left a greater and more accurate impression.
Instead, I was left both with an increased awareness of my own ignorance, and an inescapable whiff of the Emperor's New Clothes.
In a nutshell: I'm sure it's not all bollocks, but am simply not qualified to judge, and not interested enough to read further.
Cage might enjoy his very civil detractors here as much as his fans, maverick that he was. I found the book hilariously visionary. Not sure whether to say RIP or Rock on, John! A unique document, in ANY case. The title is loaded insofar as Cage really argues that "silence" does not exist. 4'33" is not a silent piece, as generally assumed, but a Zen form of ambient music . . . possibly including as soloist the erstwhile-infamous baby screaming in the concert hall Cage so enjoyed.
I’m rating this as 4 stars without having finished it, because now I realize this isn’t a book for reading straight through. It’s meant to be studied at intervals, like a text. There are amazing insights in here for anyone curious about the form of music.
wacky imo
The uniqueness of the book is in how Cage plays with structure in his essays and changes the way the narrative is presented to control how the reader perceives his ideas.
Sometimes this was due to the time necessary for processing dense ideas but mostly it was about as much exacting concentration as I was willing to give intentionally frustrating passages.
His stories are both sprinkled throughout the book and presented in concentrated form in one of his later essays.
Like many pieces in the book, it is a nice idea but not pleasant to read.
this formal anarrangement of content is in line with the deconstructive invention of serialism and musique concrete or appreciated gimmick in cage's work.
returning to this after so long fed into a theory i've become curious about regarding conceptual art practice and gay white male subject formation, a strategy of resource deprivation (even extraction) that would seem to link edelman to cage.
how is that really different from anything else in the world?
there is difference in the world and i have my ear trained to it as well as cage.
cage fails in his attempt to obscure or kill that difference through incorporation.
Particularly his goal of having sounds be appreciated for what they were, not any emotional ideas that we typically associate with them.
For example, how I might attach a specific experience to one of my own compositions and title it accordingly, while to a listener, the piece will probably convey a totally different experience or feeling.
Is it worth it for a musician to try to convey any one particular emotion if people will feel different ones (probably ones that they can't really understand themselves) when they hear your music?
I am sometimes asked to give private music lessons, to aspiring saxophonists, arrangers, and composers.
I haven't given private lessons for years, and don't really intend to return to them.
Because, at the risk of sounding hyperbolic, I consider this, possibly, the single most important book about music written.
There's a variety of material within: essays on music, indeterminate music, text performance works ("Lecture on Nothing"), Robert Rauschenberg, and many of his little anecdotes (which largely make up the his classic "Indeterminacy" album).I'm not without my criticisms of Cage.
He was, for example, largely against the idea of improvisation.
I read this years ago, the affecting musings of a "compleat" composer essayist on art and such joie de vivre topics as mushroom collecting.
cage in a silencing anechoic chamber, an experiment I duplicated in a semi-anechoic chamber at General motors.
there's no silence for the living.
This sanguine philosophy: "The composer whose works were being performed had provided program notes.
One of these notes was to the effect that there is too much pain in the world.
So I said, 'Well, I enjoyed the music, but I didn't agree with that program note about there being too much pain in the world.' He said, 'What?
It is tiresome, provocative, groundbreaking, infuriating, boring, soulful.
In short, it bears a notable resemblance to Cage's music.
I share much of Cage's philosophy, but I suppose I simply wasn't used to moving beyond myself while reading.
Then it got tiresome again at the end.
Likely a bit of both.In any case, obviously a masterpiece not only because of its importance as a relic of contemporary music history, but because it forces you to change your mind about things.
Cage says at some point that he feels some hope for humans because he has witnessed instances of mind-changing.
Some of these lectures were amazing.
Others had interesting concepts, but the content fell flat.
He wrote a few of them in the same way that he wrote his music: completely randomly.
There is one in particular that would be really great if you could hear it live, but it's pretty useless to read it.
When they are printed, it's impossible to get the same effect because you can't read four lines at once the way you can hear four lines at once.
This book is in my top two favourite monographs of all time.
Sometimes - and some years - Greil Marcus's _Lipstick Traces_ is my favourite, but I (frequently) flick back to John Cage.John Cage's _Silence_ is a detox for the mind.
Magnificently written, carefully configured and positioned on the page, this book offers not only a new way of thinking about sound, but an innovative method for writing about it.This 50th anniversary edition of _Silence_ is beautifully presented.
But the publishers have treated this book with respect and style.Read this book before you die.
Read this book now.
It will change how you listen, write, think and create.
I got my degree from a school that believed the world's "best" music culminated in the Romantic period, and probably somewhere in Germany.
This book sums up what we were all so desperately missing.
I believe with all my heart Cage is far beyond most living composers today in his understanding of what music is and can be in our day and age.
This book will become far more important as a historical record of "who got it first" than anything else.
Makes me wonder why the world of music still hasn't caught up to 1961.
