https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/301821.Hearts_Aflame
So. He's going to have sex with Kristen whether she wants to or not?
Royce sees it as not rape, because she's a slave, and he's her owner, so he can do whatever the fuck he wants.
There's actually one particularly awesome event in this book, where, after Royce is gravely injured, and both he and Kristen are captured, she's about to be raped (not willingly, this time).
We've all heard of court cases where—and I shit you not—the "but she totally wanted/enjoyed it" story has been played as some kind of sick, twisted defence for the rapist, or as an attack against the rape victim's credibility.
This book was one that I read years ago in the early days of my romance reading.
(I started when I was about 12) I had so much fun reading it that I have kept it all these years and have reread it multiple times.
Fearing rape, the Vikings disguise Kristen as a boy, but their protective nature soon leads to more trouble for her.
She is good-natured and cheerful throughout the book, although she does get angry a time or two.
I think that if she had been a different personality type Royce's personality would have come off as too dominating.
4+ This book may have been written 20+ years ago, but it is a timeless classic. It's a well written fantasy Viking romance meant for pure enjoyment, and enjoy it I did! It has plenty of sizzle and adventure, a great hero/heroine, and a flirty sense of humor that I just love. Very high on the angst scale. The heroine becomes a prisoner to our hero, but soon it is he who is the one being held captive for her. This was great romance candy, IMO.
4  stars for lovers of historical romance. Smart strong heroine. Great relationship development. It was fun.STORY BRIEF:In 873 Vikings travel to England to raid a monastery. They are ambushed and kept as slaves by the Saxon lord Royce. Norwegian woman Kristen is among them. Royce cannot resist her. And she wants him too.OPINION:Kristen’s intelligence, attitude, and fighting abilities might be stretching believability - as to typical women in those days, but it made a good story. There’s good plo
It was fun.STORY BRIEF:In 873 Vikings travel to England to raid a monastery.
And she wants him too.OPINION:Kristen’s intelligence, attitude, and fighting abilities might be stretching believability - as to typical women in those days, but it made a good story.
I really enjoyed this.Some readers did not like Royce because he kept Kristen in chains and bedded her every night while he was engaged to another.
It was obvious he was falling in love with her and didn’t want her hurt.There is one attempted rape.
A guy (not Royce) grabs Kristen and kisses her, but she fights and gets away before anything else can happen.
Let's break this viking down, shall we?I'm hiding most of this review because I rant and spoil a lot (or a little, depending on who you are and how you interpret what I write).
How could I have forgotten how far we have come?
That said, some of the GR reviews I read were up in arms about the amount of sex in this book.
It makes up for all the other crap.All in all, I have to thank Becca for encouraging me to read this.
And now, off to read her review.
(hide spoiler)]

My favorite Viking romance, Hearts Aflame has two of the most hard-headed Heroes and heroines since… well since the heroine’s parents' story.
Kristen Haardred the beloved daughter of a Viking lord and a fierce celtic mother, knew she would marry for nothing less than true love.
Finally free to go home, Kristen realizes she’s captured by something far more binding- true love.I have read and re-read this romance novel for years and every time, I’m sucked in as soon as Royce and Kristen meet.
I was on the Smart Bitches, Trashy Books website a few days ago reading the Johanna Lindsay discussion.
Many waxed sweetly about this book Hearts Aflame--how it was both rape-y and feminist all at the same time.
I miss the days when the women would go a-Viking on a whim and end up with a grand adventure that covered continents with their irascible and irresistible hero who really does love her but he doesn't know it so he has to have rape-y sex with her.
A feathered roach clip in her hair would have made it picture perfect.
Διοικεί με πυγμή το κάστρο και τους ανθρώπους του και δεν θα επιτρέψει σε κανέναν και τίποτα να διακινδυνεύσει την ασφάλειά τους.Πρόκειται για το δεύτερο βιβλίο της σειράς και αυτή τη φορά είναι μια γυναίκα Βίκινγκ που πρωταγωνιστεί.
Μου άρεσε πολύ ο τρόπος που αντιμετώπισε τα συναισθήματά της και αγωνίστηκε για αυτά που ήθελε.Ο ήρωας από την άλλη ήταν απλά απολαυστικός.
Από την άλλη όμως φαινόταν να σέβεται παράλληλα το γεγονός πως ήταν μια γυναίκα της φυλής της και πως αν ήθελε θα μπορούσε να φέρει τα πάνω κάτω στον πύργο του!Με αυτά και με εκείνα, πρόκειται για μια πολύ ωραία ιστορία αγάπης.
I read this book long, long ago and then downloaded it again for my Kindle. I'd forgotten every bit of the story in the years in between, but I still loved it when I read it again. In some ways it's old school romance, in others (especially the sensuality level) I think Ms. Lindsey was ahead of her time (as she was in writing futuristic romance!). She was a treasured author for me for a long time and now I remember why. :)
Her physical as well as mental strength which she uses to survive her captivity as well as defend herself from unwanted advances made her a heroine I could admire and root for.Most of the story takes place in Royce's hall where Kristen serves as a chained up slave and Royce is ruler.
I read some very insightful reviews from readers who had read this book when it first came out, describing that during this time in the 80's, women enjoying and pursuing sex was frowned upon outside of marriage and Kristen resisting was a reflection of that societal expectation.
The strength of Kristen as a heroine is too strong for this book to be a 1-star read.
Then I ended up absolutely loving everything about this book!
I couldn't tear myself away!Kristen is Garrick and Brenna Haardrad's only daughter.
He doesn't understand why he would be attracted to a "Viking whore", but he was nonetheless, taken with Kristen; all that blonde elegance, not-so-feminine stature, fiery personality and spirit.Royce is a delicious Alpha Hero and perfect for Kristen in every way.
I liked Kristen more than her mother, Brenna, mainly because though they are very much alike in many aspects of their personalities, Kristen is considerably much more mature when she was dealing with Royce than Brenna was with Garrick.
Follow up to "Fires of Winter"Kristen Haardrad smuggled herself in her brother Selig's ship bound to go on a trading voyage.
But once aboard she finds out they are going "Viking", meaning they are going raiding.
The plan is to raid a saxon church but it goes wrong and they are captured.
Because of her height and boys clothes Kristen passes herself off as a boy but Royce of Wyndhurst soon realises she is female and puts her working in his hall.
Kristen does not hide her attraction to Royce as she is no shy miss.
I remember sneaking this book off my mom's shelf when I was fourteen and reading it.
Probably not the best reading material for a young teenager, but nevertheless I fell head over heels in love with Kristen and Royce and have read  Hearts Aflame  a dozen times over since then.
It is, in my opinion, the  best  book I have ever read by Lindsey (and I have read nearly all of them).
There was action, adventure, love, betrayal, and a tough as nails female heroine, something I had never encountered before (and have rarely seen since) in historical romance.If I could give this book a hundred, nay, a  thousand  stars I would!
My favorite book in this series of 3 books. I have read numerous times and each time I never skip a sentence. I TREASURE this book. It is so good, so well written and I just love their story. I will read again, and again. I have paperback and e-book... In fact, it was 1 of the first books I purchased when I got my first Kindle. 12/24/14 - I read again for the 4th or 5th time and it was just as awesome as all the other times. I love this book
Well, I woke up this am thinking about Kristin and Royce. I decided to read this again.... I think I've read this now 5 times??? I still love it.
Κι όμως, παρά που η Lindsey δεν είναι η αγαπημένη μου όλων, στο είδος της, και παρά που η σειρά της "Φλογεροί Βίκινγκς" είναι γραμμένη σε μια εποχή πολύ έξω από τα σημερινά δεδομένα -άρα, ίσως θα έπρεπε να φαντάζει παλαιολιθική στα μάτια μας-, τόσο με το πρώτο βιβλίο όσο και με το δεύτερο, κατάφερε να μου προσφέρει ευχάριστες, ανάλαφρες, αισθαντικές αναγνωστικές στιγμές.
Κλείνοντας αυτήν την παρένθεση, λοιπόν, και προσπερνώντας τα παραπάνω, θέλω να πω πως η Lindsey, για ακόμα μία φορά, έχει δημιουργήσει μία ιστορία πολύ σύγχρονη για την εποχή της, με φρεσκάδα και δυναμισμό που την καθιστούν ευχάριστη στην ανάγνωσή της ακόμα και σήμερα.Βέβαια, αυτό που πραγματικά λάτρεψα, δεν είναι άλλο από την Κρίστεν και την προσωπικότητά της.
I wasn't sure what to expect from this book but I have to say that it was a great bodice-ripper, viking/Celt historical romance. But with a twist. And it's the twist that saves it. In this story, Kristen is the Viking, who goes raiding with her brother, and is captured by a Saxon lord and becomes a slave. But Kristen is a wonderful heroine. Her bodice may be ripped but his chausses are ripped right back! This is no meek heroine, but neither is she the bitter, angry heroine either. This story is just a wonderful romp.
I read historical romances in my early teens, and my favories were Johanna Lindsey and Jude Devereaux. I read Hearts Aflame like 3-4 times. It's wild and oh so sexy.
Citam ja tako nastojeci prebrikati ta silovanja u svojoj glavi...
Ja ne znam ili sam ja luda, ili je autorica na nekim haribo kokain bombonima ali niveliranje silovanja s potrebama zene, i opravdavanje tog samog cina kao necega sto zenama treba...
i konta u sebi ako sad stanem i ovaj me nategne svi ce mislit da sam kurva...
cak ni on nije bio toliko ljigav da siluje zene, zbog ko bit ce potrebe, ovo ono i sta sve ne...
Djevica sam..
I volim teAko ovo nije stockholmski sindrom, onda ne znam sto je!!!
The heroine of this book is the kick ass daughter of the first book's heroes. As much as I didn't like the previous one, I really enjoyed this one.
[image error]Di pergoki Lady Corlis, Kristen dan Royce tidak peduli, Kristen malah nyengir2 sendiri dan Royce memarahi tunangannya karena menghina Kristen dengan menyebut Kristen 'perempuan raksasa'....Selig yg ternyata masih hidup dan menyamar sebagai orang Devon, datang minta pekerjaan pada Royce yg langsung di setujui Royce tanpa curiga.
Buku ke dua cerita ttg si kristen anaknya brenna dan garrick...ceritanya di mulai dari si kristen mo ikut berlayar sama selig (kakanya) tapi engga boleh sama garrick..alesannya kristen mo ikut berlayar pertama dia mo cari jodoh,,,yg kedua di mau menghindar dari si dirk (dirk suka sama kristen,,tapi kristennya engga mau,,,kristen cuma nganggap dirk temen)...pas si selig dah berlayar ternyata si kristen udah ngumpet di gudang didalam kapal  akhirnya ketauanlah si kristen sama selig,,tadinya tuh ka
..si kristen emang udah suka sama si royce sejak pertama ngeliat,,begitu juga si royce cuma masing-2 pada jaim nih...padahal si royce dah punya tunangan...
Royce is famous for his torture methods but is persuaded to use his prisoners as slave labour.Things got strange for me when these two developed a relationship of sorts.Kirsten's philosophy is to conquer and gain, she does not leave things to fate.
She is unapologetic and does not rely on tears to get her way.Royce was judgemental and irritating initially, but it is a result of his past and the assumptions he holds.
He despises tears and prefers Kirsten's blunt methods.
Royce got on my nerves, but I think Kirsten made him better.
It is the 2nd in a trilogy, stories of a Viking family (FIRES OF WINTER, HEARTS AFLAME and SURRENDER MY LOVE), but it can be enjoyed as a stand-alone.
In a bit of a twist, it’s a Saxon lord capturing a Viking maiden.Set in the late 9th century when Vikings sailed south to England, Scotland and Ireland to raid, it tells the story of Kristen Haardrad, the independent, strong-willed and much loved daughter of a wealthy Viking merchant (whose story is told in FIRES OF WINTER).
It all goes awry when Kristen is captured and made the slave of the Saxon lord, Royce of Wyndhurst, a favored knight of King Alfred.
She is physically strong, and just like her mum, she fights better than most men and she has too much pride for her own good.
He is not afraid to crush her with his strength, physically or mentally, because she is his match.The saxon lord is determined to keep her forever, but he is not prepared to marry her because she is (1) a Viking AND (2) a slave.
A powerful saxon lord and his strong and beautiful viking slave, Royce and Kristen, are struggling against the burning desire and the overwhelming love they feel for each other.
now thats kinda spirit you need to lead a life.Last but not the least , Hero , he was good , I liked him, he was not cruel or mean, he was also not thick headed.
(view spoiler)[There was this scene , were both our leads were captured & how it was Heroine who saved them and brought them to safety back...
This is the second book in Johanna Lindsey's Haardrad Viking Family series. One of Ms Lindsey's books that stood the test of time for me. I read this many, many years ago and loved it. Not too long ago I reread a bunch of Ms Lindsey's older books and some didn't work for me after all these years.
I'd forgotten how much I liked Johanna Lindsey. :-) Can't beat an old bodice ripper for entertainment.
aww i think its better then the first one... loooved it :D
