https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/208670.The_Witch_and_Other_Stories

After reading a collection such as The Witch, and Other Stories, one can clearly see why Anton Chekhov is regarded as the master of the short story. Every single tale here was engaging, compelling, and fluidly translated. In true Russian fashion, they are all rather bleak, but they are achingly human, and beautiful for it. Chekhov renders everything, from his settings to his characters, in the most detailed and realistic manner in this wonderful and rich collection of diverse stories.
Chekhov's theme may as well be distilled to the following maxim:Nobody really understands anybody else at all, and the worst thing about this is that we strut around through life believing that we are really good at this communication business.These stories, along with those in other volumes of Chekov that I've read, such as The Chorus Girl, are among the most heartbreaking and sad pieces I've ever come across. Reading Chekhov stories always makes me feel hopeless and shitty, but I keep coming back to them anyway.
Chekhov's short stories are supposedly required reading for getting the art of the short story down. These are an almost eerie set of stories about life in the Russian peasantry in the 19th century--but the issues he deals with of adultery, passion, jealousy and resignation are universal. Some of the stories I felt I was missing something, some issue of lingual/cultural/historical translation no doubt, but others were quietly heartbreaking.
While always a reader I had never read Chekhov. But whenever anyone talks about mastering the short story, Chekhov's name is mentioned. So I started with these stories. I generally don't like reading ANYONE'S short stories one right after another, anymore than I enjoy listening to one artist sing one song right after another, but I enjoyed these. While not his best - it's easy to understand why his work has become classic.
'In the Ravine' is another superb story. Nothing compares to reading a Russian classic - it's like a high and several lows in the same story, it's like beginning to enjoy a ride in sunny just perfect weather, then getting hit by hail and rain on a steep hilly section, before the weather turns sunny again - except the sun now is not as warm as before and the rain soaked clothes turn the ride into an experience you are in two minds whether to end immediately or continue to eternity.
Read during my trip back home since it was the only book left.
I now understand why Chekhov is considered one of the all time great short-story writers. His stories hold up even today. I bet the American author, Ron Rash, with his tales of Appalachia woe, is a huge fan of Chekhov.
Sitting in my Trans Siberian train i realized that i have never read Chekhov. So i downloaded this book and read it, and looking outside my train window and imagine the life of Russian as i read it in the book.
Read - The Student
Chekhov has a fresh and simple style.Probably take a few reads most of these- in fact, seeing the half-empty page indicating the end of a story made me panic most times because I hadn't picked up the story's meaning yet.
I didn't pick up on anything interesting structurally, even although I know Chekhov's structure is a fave of Alice Munro's- I shall investigate.Conclusion 1: Constance Garnett, try as she might, has probably done unknowable harm to readers who approach Russian literature for the first time for her dull translations.
Kareninaaaaaaaaaaa!Conclusion 2: will read more Alice Munro.
There is nothing good to be looked for."Not a happy ending anywhere in this dour collection of short stories, featuring the depressing existence of peasants and the lower middle class.
But really, given the nationality, did I need to use the adjectives "dour" or "depressing"?
The rain dripped from the thatch, and the manure steamed in the midden.
Silas never omitted the manure.
It was not Silas's fault that its steam provided the only uprising element in the picture.
I want to like Chekhov's writing.
His reputation seems to depend on literary historicity: if you subscribe to the dominant paradigm of Anglo-European literary history, Chekhov is an important formalist and his stories are a refreshing part of the historical flow.
After all, the "short story" is only part of the global ethnographic continuum of human storytelling; in that broader context we find myth, legend, parable, and history itself, with many transformative lessons, from many cultures, for solving life's problems and inspiring us to care for each other and our planet.Chekhov can only offer discouragement.
Every time I come back to Chekhov now, I think that his writing is probably the most beautiful I have read...the prose is astonishing at times; passing gorgeous poetic phrases scattered around like it were nothing at at all, the ability to briefly anthropomorphise nature, the weather, animals with the keenest observance, as if his whole life, down to every tiny detail, he was constantly writing, in his head...this collection is wonderful, and costs zip on kindle...as ever ploughs alternately bleak and comedic intimate depictions of russian peasant life layered with meaning, unfolding every so often into moments of profound clarity and revealing (as close, brutally honest and beautiful as I have found so far, bar maybe Kafka) our very nature to us.

http://www.gutenberg.org/catalog/worl...CONTENTS: THE WITCH PEASANT WIVES THE POST THE NEW VILLA DREAMS THE PIPE AGAFYA AT CHRISTMAS TIME GUSEV THE STUDENT IN THE RAVINE THE HUNTSMAN HAPPINESS A MALEFACTOR PEASANTS17/8/2012: On hold
Chekhov is one of the best short story writers ever. Many of his works are quite short, describing one moment in time, and yet ends of reflecting a life time of pain, an entire culture, a universal struggle, or a black irony that most can appreciate. I wish I could read Russian, as I assume these stories are even more powerful in their original language. I give this collection a 4 star rather than a 5, because not every story is great. But they are all well worth the read.
the book is about the life and misery of the peasants in russia.. sometimes the story has no plot but merely depicts some trivial everyday scene which gives it more force i think since it gives no explanation nor justification but just the crude reality of a bunch of people looking for happinnes but never find it... i loved the book the only regret was that i can't read russian..i would have prefered the original version
read only The Witch, as I was AD'ing a short film adaptation. Interesting story, but I feel like I'm missing a lot here because I don't know anything about the time it was written, and this is one of those pieces where that sort of information helps with the understanding. That said, it's not a bad piece, but it felt to me like it was an empty ending.
I enjoyed reading this book although it was quite heavy. Some of the short stories were absolutely entrancing like the witch, gustav and a couple of others. They were full of wonderful imagery and beautiful language. The social commentary and gender commentary was quite interesting as well although occasionally the wordiness led me to be distracted.
Did these great short stories in their deliberately unfinished state express Chekhov's atheistic denial of wholeness or wholesomeness? Do we witness in these works how a greater context is always geared toward the destruction and then annihilation of the smaller ones, becoming engulfed by a yet vaster one in its turn?
A collection of short stories mostly taking place in the Russian countryside in the early 20th century. A common theme across the different stories is the socioeconomic oppression surrounding the lives of Russian peasants at that time.
I've been trying to read the Classics lately and I have to say, I don't know how some of them could be classified as such. These short stories had little plot and many had no ending whatsoever. No matter how beautiful the prose, substance matters too.
I am not usually a fan of short stories but I will make an exception for Chekhov going forward. Some were more memorable than others, notably, The Witch, Into the Ravine, Gusev and Peasants.
I would agree that his work is a masterful example of technique in short stories. But I will admit the author is dry, and a little hard to follow but a worthwhile read nonetheless.
This copy includes 15 Chekhov's stories. Rating is for the short story The Witch.  by A. Apsita, 1902
Quite boring. Gave up after a few stories.
I had heard about Anton Chekhov a lot. This is the first short story collection by him that i've read. I liked most of the stories. The stories depict the lives of peasants of Russia at that time.
Nice short Chekhov collection. The stories are interesting and fast reads. A good start for anyone interested in trying out Chekhov.
I always enjoy reading Chekov's work.
