https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2586771-the-19th-wife
This book blends fact and fiction, telling the present-day fictional story of Jordan, a young man whose mother has recently been charged with the murder of her polygamist husband, alongside the journals and "non-fiction" accounts of early Mormon polygamists.
Of course, how accurate these accounts of early Mormon polygamy in the United States are is a source of great controversy.As I was listening to this book, my heart went out to the women in these stories.
I could not quit listening to her account of life growing up in a polygamist community.Aside from Ann Eliza's personal story, the history of polygamy in the United States and it's ties the Mormon Church were very enlightening.
What was wrong with me?
Didn't I review 'any' books when I first joined Goodreads?
(guess not)This book blew me away!!!
I loved it --and gave it as a gift a couple of times.
A VERY strong 5 star novel!
I come here today --because I just discovered 'yesterday' that a movie comes out this year called "The Danish Girl", which David Ebershoff wrote also.So---I must ....RUN -(not walk) --and find time to read "The Danish Girl" soon --(before seeing the movie...which looks 'fantastic' by the way).I can't wait to read "The Danish Girl" !!!!!
In 1875 she fled the marriage and the church and spent practically the rest of her life campaigning for the legal abolishment of the system in the United States.Parallel to this story, is the one of Jordan Scott's mother, BeckyLyn, who allegedly murdered her husband, a modern polygamist from Utah.
What I found interesting about the theme, is that so many forms of polygamy existed in the world, still do, and that this 'barbaric' practices by this religious group was not appreciated at all, but mostly because of the spiritual and moral enslavement of women and children in this system.
When she became disaffected and left the marriage (and the Church), she wrote a best-selling expose called "Wife No. 19, or the story of a life in bondage." She became a public crusader against polygamy's "abuses." That part is true; however, excerpts which are supposedly from her book, and extensive conversations and descriptions and explanations of motivations, are all from the author's vivid imagination.The other 19th wife is a fictional woman named BeckyLyn Scott, living in a modern fictional southern Utah town with the rest of the fundamentalist "Firsts." Early in the book, her polygamous husband, one of the community/church leaders, is murdered; because of circumstantial evidence, BeckyLyn is accused of the crime and imprisoned.Meanwhile, we meet Jordan Scott, son of BeckyLyn and the polygamist patriarch.
One of the books is a well researched historical fiction novel about Ann Eliza Young, Mormon leader Brigham Young's "19th wife" who fled polygamy in the late 1800s and made it her life's mission to abolish it (succeeding, at least legally).
The second book is a murder mystery involving a present day polygamist group, with a gay "lost boy" (polygamy sects often abandon young boys to the world so that they are not competition for wives for the older men) as the central character, trying to find the truth in a snarled nest of lies.
The challenges to spirituality and faith that both sides of the polygamy issue present are very nicely handled in both time periods.
Apologists for the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (The Mormons) could feel the book's approach polemical though I feel the author was more interested in illuminating some historical problems with the system officially abandoned and proscribed by the LDS church, and the continuing lack of candor about the practice along with questions of individual faith and the tension between coercion and support in human communities, especially authoritarian religious communities that stifle dissent and questioning.
Caveat: This book may be unsettling to devout Latter-day Saints who have not read much about 19th century or contemporary polygamy.
I was really looking forward to reading this book; it has great reviews and mixes historical fiction with a modern mystery.
About polygamy, history, and mystery - I expected to love this novel.
First, the reader can't tell when the author is writing a fiction part of the historical fiction and what is indeed part of history.
There are no chapter notes of any kind to give the reader an idea of what is true and what he made up.
The modern mystery throughout the novel had more foul language than necessary.
Much in thanks to her, it was outlawed in 1890 and the Prophet at that time told his people to stop as well; but polygamy continued as a separate faction for those who still believed it was an edict from God. Or for those needing an excuse to own a private harem.There are alternating modern-day chapters (too few in my opinion) of a 19th wife of a polygamist whom she is accused of murdering.
So Ann Eliza was in fact Brigham's #52 out of 55 total(!).For another view of a fictional modern-day polygamist family, I recommend watching HBO's 5 seasons of "Big Love" if you can find it on OnDemand or video (starring Bill Paxton and Jeanne Tripplehorn).
On doing research to know how to respond to some of the questions many have on why our faith practiced polygamy over 100 years ago, I came across an article that I felt answered a lot of questions that I agree with.http://www.fairlds.org/Misc/Polygamy_...The book club was very excited to ask difficult questions in a setting that was not offensive.
going right to the source to ask about our history and beliefs.On that topic, I suggest also to visit http://www.mormon.org or http://www.lds.orgThese are the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints' official websites.Overall, I feel that this book is not worth anyone's while to read.
I was fortunate to be able to attend his reading at an amazing independent bookstore, Vroman's.The book weaves together the story of Ann Eliza Young, Brigham Young's infamous 19th wife, who divorced him and lectured around the country about polygamy.
The other story is that of another 19th wife, this one a modern polygamist, akin to the Fundamentalist Latter Day Saints that have been much in the news.
The modern 19th wife is accused of killing her husband, which her son finds out by chance, as he has been kicked out of the community.
Ebershoff weaves a tale of the past and present polygamist Mormon church in this stunning work of historical fiction.
The past is represented by the accounts of Ann Eliza Young, wife of Brigham Young who sued for the end of the practice and left the church.
The present is a convoluted story of homicide by the 19th wife of her insatiable husband.
He has a rich narrative imagination, which makes it difficult to siphon the reality of the story.
This, however, does not detract from the excellent recounting of the tale.
I was saddened over the ending, but I don't think it could have gone any other way.
The foul language and the gay relationships in one of the plot lines didn't distract me either.
I thought it was interesting to read about falling in love from his perspective and can see why someone who has strong moral objections to homosexuality would be uncomfortable, but, hey, isn't that one reason we read fiction?The book is not flawless, but it's ambitious and entertaining.
The author incorporated historical documents and other texts that enlivened the telling.
Both plot lines address polygamy.I plan to read another David Ebershoff book.
(And as the author pointed out in his notes at the end of the book, even history is tainted by perspective and the same event or circumstance can be described by two different people in completely different ways.
And a few modern-day LDS references were off and that pulled me out of the story a bit.7- There were some unique perspectives in the Ann Eliza time period story that I really liked.
I thought there were some really touching parts of the Ann Eliza time period story and I liked the inclusion of some important historical events in the early LDS church (although they were somewhat glossed over because they weren't really the focus of the overall story).
When I heard about The 19th Wife by David Ebershoff, I was immediately desperate to get my hands on a copy. I love historical fiction and have a strange fascination with polygamy and other cults. As soon as it arrived, I sat down to read it cover to cover. It did not disappoint.  This novel weaves the stories of two women, both the 19th wives of polygamists, and paints a thorough and captivating portrait of plural marriage from its inception in the 1830s to its current existence with fringe gro
This novel weaves the stories of two women, both the 19th wives of polygamists, and paints a thorough and captivating portrait of plural marriage from its inception in the 1830s to its current existence with fringe groups.
Ebershoff fictionalizes her story but also references diverse original sources to bring to life Brigham Young, Ann Eliza Young, her parents and siblings.
The other 19th wife's story is radically different from Ann Eliza Young's, and reveals how far from grace plural marriage has fallen.
Ebershoff condemns the practice thoroughly, but he does a great job of showing the fears and beliefs that drive women to choose being a plural wife.
The two stories have parallel themes of course and even slightly overlap.My main grief was in the long-winded style of the 19th century characters, but I had other problems with this part of the book.
Eventually this part of the book (the two stories were told in interchanging chapters) was the carrot that kept me plodding along.If the novel had been only set in the 19th century it would've been a snooze-fest (even though I typically DO like historical fiction.) But perhaps I've read one too many books on polygamy and was bored because I've simply exhausted the subject?
I felt it was crude and disrespectful to weave that plot along with descriptions of religious rites and rituals that are sacred to some.
I also felt it was misleading to weave in seemingly real letters and references to "sealed" "archived" documents that might lead the reader to believe they are in fact the real deal when they are not.
I was disappointed in not knowing what happened to Eliza Ann Young, the contemporarary murder plot of the 19th wife from Mesadale was never developed enough to satisfy in any way, and the gay sexcapades of the son was pure trash.
A dual narrative that "volleys" back and forth between the 19th and 21st centuries, The 19th Wife focuses on the polygamous lifestyle of the Mormon church.
I am giving this book a three star rating because what I found fascinating was the bibliographic information which is entwined with much of the narrative.
Especially when I read about the Latter Day Saints massacre.
All in all, I'm not sure I would re-read this book, but I am curious as to what other reader's reactions to the book were.
I’ve read a few books on polygamy, I like that this one focuses on how nasty it is for boys as well as women.
Although I usually find it annoying I also enjoyed how the author jumped between past & present telling 2 stories at once.
Ann Young’s struggle to end polygamy in the late 1800’s became fresh & relevant, while the telling of polygamy’s impact on a gay young man in present times was really poignant.
Some good lines in it, I particularly liked the description of “The 1st’s” as the Greta Garbo of cults”
Loved the 19th Century Brigham Young/Ann Eliza part (3 1/2-4 stars), the modern part I could have done without (2 stars).
The first is the story of Ann Eliza Webb Young (a real historical figure), who was Brigham Young's 19th wife (technically his 19th, depending on how you count them).
The second is the story of Jordan Scott, a young man in present times who is kicked out of his family's polygamous compound (think Colorado City and Warren Jeffs), then is drawn back in when his mother is arrested for killing his father.
To tie it together, his mother is also the 19th wife of his father.The book is very well written and I was immediately drawn in to the stories, but it did get a little tiresome switching back and forth.
What is fact is that Eliza Ann divorced Brigham Young in 1873, that she wrote a book about her life among the polygamous Mormons entitled Wife No. 19, and that she traveled around America giving lectures criticizing polygamy.The other main narrative is the tale of a purely fictitious character, Jordan, who was expelled from his fictitious modern-day polygamous community as a teenager.
But not a real one.It bears repeating: What is fact is that Eliza Ann divorced Brigham Young in 1873, that she wrote a book about her life among the polygamous Mormons entitled Wife No. 19, and that she traveled around America giving lectures criticizing polygamy.
This book was fascinating.
It tells two different stories at the same time.
The story of Ana Eliza Dee Young, the 19th wife of Brigham Young and a modern day mystery regarding the death of a husband by his 19th wife.
The story is interesting and told in two different perspectives.
Some have complained that it was confusing, I thought it was EASY to follow along and figure out who's voice was speaking---either from chapter title or topic of concern.
Others complained because one of the characters is a homosexual...If you can't handle homosexuals, don't read books where they play a role.
Intertwining stories of Brigham Young's actual wife, Ann Eliza Young, who was instrumental in getting the Mormon church to renounce polygamy, and Jordan Scott, a fictional contemporary teen boy who returns to the polygamist sect he was thrown out of years ago when his mother is accused of killing her husband.
This is not young adult fiction but to me, since I've recently read a few young adult books and they seem to be getting more ambitious and since Jordan's first person narrative is sooooo teenagery I really felt like I was reading a YA book.
It poses as documented historical fiction with its footnotes and lengthy "bibliography." The 2 main plots are loosely (very) based on 19th century and 21st century characters & scenes.
Too bad he doesn't state that at the beginning.I was offended by: 1.frequent use of the "f-word" and other obscenities, 2.explicit gay lifestyle of 2 main characters, 3.crude sexual references, 4.disrespectful & inaccurate discussion of relig ritual and rites sacred to many, 5.rude discussion &"explanation" of the temple garment which is also sacred to many, 6.total vilification of Brigham Young, 8.implication that since some of the characters & situations are historical that the details are also.His scenes, and characters are well developed, but the murder mystery drags on & on with predictable & disappointing resolution.
I LOVED this book!
I'd give it more than five stars if I could.
It's long and dense and so worth it.
In part contemporary fiction and part historical "faction", the multi-leveled story looks back at the history of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints and one of its cultish offsprings called "The Firsts." I listened to it on audio, and the four readers were phenomenal.
It's always difficult to know how different a book would be if you're reading it vs listening to it, so I can only speak for the audio version.
My favorite book this year.
The reader is given quotes and speeches and parts of a doctoral work on Mormon beliefs, including a study of one prophet’s wife, Ann Eliza Young, who became an apostate and almost single handedly worked to for the abolition of polygamy in the Mormon Church.
If one is to pick ONE central theme, it is the destructive role of polygamy.The book hopped all over the place: not only between the two different story threads but also different points in time.
One chapter, where Brigham Young was in prison, we had already been told what would happen, and yet I had to listen to about 50 minutes of his boring blab to come to a conclusion I already was informed of.
Sure you learn things from this book but it’s not what I’d call entertaining.The story is part fiction part historical fact about the Mormons and the First Latter Day Saints.
Ann Eliza Young, one of Brigham Young’s many wives, is the main voice for the past and Jordan Scott is the excommunicated FLDS voice for the present.
Using these different perspectives makes the book interesting but because there is virtually no dialog in the story the reader is faced with a lot of dense prose to slog through that sometimes makes it really boring and tiring to read.Ann Eliza Young’s story was more interesting than Jordan’s.
One of the best books I've read in a long time.
I also enjoyed "Pasadena" which was written some time ago but Ebershoff's talents have expanded since then.This is a combination history of/multiple story line about the Mormon church and the split between the regular church and the minority within the church which became the "Saints" who wholly believe in the right/commandment of polygamy, otherwise known as "celestial marriage".
All very good reading that leaves you wanting more from this author.
A very interesting work of fiction about the unbelievable life of Ann Eliza Young in 1875 Utah and her struggle to end Mormon polygamy in America.. Reads like a memoir with a murder mystery.
It interweaves the stories of two 19th wives--the first in the early years of the Mormon church, married to leader Brigham Young, and the second a member of one of the modern day splinter sects that practice polygamy.I was raised Mormon and the orthodox history included comports with my memory; although it is common for people who leave to do so, I didn't research the non-orthodox versions of Mormon history after leaving the religion but based on random things I've read that seems accurate as well.
