https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89788.The_Lady_and_the_Unicorn
Beautiful!I found Lady and the Unicorn even better than Girl with a Pearl Earring.
I felt utterly transported to the middle ages and immersed in a very good tale, immaculately told.As she did with The Girl With the Pearl Earring, Tracy Chevalier takes a classic work of art and artfully spins a tale inspired by the original which becomes an original itself.It was specially fascinating living among the Brussels weavers and coming to understand the magnitude of their task.
In the same vein as her book Girl with a Pearl Earring, The Lady and the Unicorn is a fictional account of the story surrounding the creation of the famed Lady and the Unicorn Tapestries, now housed at the Musee national du Moyen-Age (Musee Cluny) in Paris.
This topic was particularly intriguing to me, since I'd seen the tapestries in person back in 2001.While the book provides a really interesting up-close look at the design and weaving processes, I could have done with out the rest of the story, which was fairly bawdy.
I didn't really care about the characters—just the tapestries.
Παρά τον αυθορμητισμό που τον διακατείχε και την απερισκεψία κάποιες φορές, δεν μπόρεσε να μου δημιουργήσει αρνητικά συναισθήματα.
Έβαλε την κόρη της στο μοναστήρι για να την προστατεύσει από έναν "επικίνδυνο" ζωγράφο που, κατά την γνώμη μου, αγαπούσε αληθινά την νεαρή κοπέλα.
Ήθελε να στερήσει την χαρά και την αγάπη από την κόρη της για έναν απλό λόγο (που και η ίδια γνώριζε): την ζήλια.
Οι καλές προθέσεις της φάνηκαν και στο τέλος εξάλλου καθώς αφήνεται να εννοηθεί πως ούτε η Κλόντ αλλά ούτε και ο Νικολά έζησαν ευτυχισμένοι.Παρά το τέλος , το βιβλίο μου άφησε μια ευχάριστη αίσθηση και την επιθυμία να διαβάσω και άλλα βιβλία της συγγραφέως !
This is a major failing of this novel, which I found plodding and flat, and lacking in any genuine exploration of character or motivation.
The harsh working lives of the weavers are described in some detail but the description doesn't connect with the characters.
And also, if you are going to use the first person in a historical novel, try to make it fit the context, and don't describe anything as "peppered with" since peppers in this era would not have been very well known.
I know that isn't a major flaw but it just added to the sense of inauthenticity.
What I learned from this book is I should never ever read anything by this author ever again. A friend of mine was enthralled by The Virgin Blue and requested I read it. Although I hated it I thought I'd possibly give The Lady and the Unicorn a chance since I love art history. Sadly, I cannot say I liked a single thing about this book. I hated the plot, story, characters and writing style. Hated.
If I ever read the word maidenhead again in a novel, I will vomit from the flashback of reading this book.
Tracy Chevalier weaves a credible story about these tapestries: Jean Le Visté, a fifteenth-century nobleman, close to the French King Charles VII, commissions Nicolas des Innocents, a talented miniaturist, tantalized by the charms of several beautiful women - maids, ladies-in-waiting and even Jean Le Visté’s daughter and wife, too.
The book is about rivalry between mothers and daughters, lost love between a husband and wife and about the life of women as they age.
Ternyata permadani itu bukan sembarang permadani, itu adalah permadani dari abad pertengahan yang akhirnya membawa kontribusi besar pada sejarah abad pertengahan Prancis.Siapa sebenarnya perancang atau pembuat permadani ini sebenarnya tidak diketahui.
Ketiga adalah keluarga penenun permadani yaitu Georges De La Chapelle sebagai pemilik usaha pembuatan permadani, Christine Du Sablon (istri Georges De La Chapelle) , Aleinor De La Chapelle (anak perempuan Georges), Georges Le Jeune (anak laki-laki Georges) , Philippe De La Tour (bekerja pada Georges).Jean Le Viste diceritakan sebagai bangsawan yang sangat dekat dengan Raja Louis XI.
Karena itu, ia sekali waktu datang dari Prancis ke Brussel untuk memastikan apakah permadani tersebut telah selesai dikerjakan termasuk memastikan apakah sketsa yang ia buat telah sesuai dengan pengerjaannya.Nicolas Des Innocents si pelukis ternyata bukanlah The Innocent seperti namanya.
Prvo, ali ne i zadnje druženje sa Tracy :)
Was hoping to enjoy The Lady and the Unicorn after reading Burning Bright a few years earlier, which is, to be honest, far superior to this.
After the action moves away from the Le Viste family, it kind of goes downhill from there.
Also, what's the deal with Chevalier missing out on the chance to use Jean Le Viste's narrative voice?
Nicholas leers after any woman with a pulse (including fourteen year old girls) and comes out with cringeworthy lines such as "The sight of her tongue made me hard.
I've always wondered about the intricate process of creating a tapestry and in this book I felt like the author had taken me by the hand and patiently brought the creation of six tapestries to life for me, drawing me into the world of fifteen's century Paris and Brussels.
Artists, cartoonists, dyers, weavers, seamstresses and financiers were all involved in the creation, months of preparations and planning were followed by months of weaving.
but I've met enough Paris men to know that I wouldn't like it there.
Always they know best - they have the best wine, the best shoes, the best cloth, the best brushes, the best ways of making paint.
3.5 stars. I really liked the description of the weaving process of the Flemish tapestries, starting with the drawings, the daily lives of artisans and nobles, and to imagine life in Brussels at that time. I kept this book so I could read it while visiting the city and it was great to visit some of the places described in it. This being said, I would have liked the book to have more historical information and less romance, which at times even seemed a bit cheesy...
The story of The Lady and the Unicorn is quite interesting: according to the author they were rediscovered by Prosper Merimee in 1841 and he found them in poor condition.
Georges Sand became their champion, writing about them in articles, novels and her journal.
In 1992 the French government bought the tapestries for the Musee de Cluny in Paris - where they still hang, restored and in a specially appointed room.I didn't enjoy this book as much as The Girl with a Pearl Earring.
And certainly Chrissie wont like this kind of book also.The "Lady and the Unicorn" tapestry at the Cluny Museum in Paris
Everyone was kind of an idiot in this one.We have the stuck up nobleman who thinks he is all that.We have the artist who thinks he is god's gift to women.
Ugh, what an ass.
I wanted to slap him.The nobleman's stupid daughter, God, what an idiot.Then we moved on to Brussels to see the tapestry being made.
Ok, that family was better.
The daughter was better, but still, oh girl.I think the only sane person was the maid for the rich family.
Nice setting, even if I wish that stupid artist had not been it.
I wanted to give this book 1 stars, but rounded down to 1. I disliked the main character, the tapestry painter Nicolas des Innocents, by page 10, but I assumed that the author would have him grow and change as a person by the end of the book -- presumably through the process of creating the remarkable tapestries that inspired the novel. Sure, it's an obvious and almost cliché plot, but I don't need a crazy original plot in order to enjoy a book. Disappointed! He is still a pig at the end of the
He is still a pig at the end of the story (that's my spoiler, btw).There are two young women in the book: Claude, who is the daughter of the nobleman who commissioned the titular tapestries, and who is grumpy and horny and apparently would rather fool around with the slimy Nicolas des Innocents than have any worthwhile future; and Aliénor, the blind weaver's daughter, who is going to be married off to a disgusting brute whose smell literally makes her gag.
In this book the writer returns to the very successful recipe of Girl with a Pearl Earring and writes a fantastic story about the creation of a well-known artwork.
With these elements, we have an interesting history that has humour and sensitivity and is full of the joy of creation and the optimism that the very existence of art can bring.Σε αυτό το βιβλίο η συγγραφέας επιστρέφει στη συνταγή του πολύ επιτυχημένου Girl with a Pearl Earring και γράφει μία φανταστική ιστορία γύρω από τη δημιουργία ενός γνωστού έργου τέχνης.
La storia, infatti, viene presentata attraverso numerosi punti di vista, alcuni ripetuti, altri presentati solamente una volta, che ci permettono di osservare le vicende da numerose angolazioni e di conoscere in maniera più approfondita vari personaggi con relative sotto-trame.
Questo, però, talvolta penalizza la narrazione, poiché alcuni personaggi sono piuttosto fastidiosi, sia caratterialmente e per il loro modo di agire che per il modo in cui vengono raccontati, di conseguenza si spera solamente di non incappare nuovamente in un capitolo dalla loro prospettiva.
Incredibly clunky and just flat-out dull. If you've read Girl With a Pearl Earring you can pretty much track where this story's going to go. It's very predictable and the sexual subplots were laughable in places. Sorry, Ms Chevalier, but this was just not worth my time, even for the really lovely scenes describing the tapestries (and those tapestries are amazing. Seriously, google them).
Surprisingly not having very much at all to do with unicorns, this novel is a very well-written interpretation and fictional explanation for the famous tapestry of a lady and a unicorn in France.
When he becomes enamored of Lord La Viste's daughter he winds up using her face for one of the panels.
He also uses several other faces of women he meets for the other panels and there is a story behind each one.
The Lord's wife, the weaver's wife, and his daughter all wind up in the famous tapestries.
Each character has a story to tell and a reaction to these tapestries.We will probably never know how or why these beautiful things were actually created, but Tracy Chevalier has given us a thoughtful and pleasant tale to think about.
$23.950-525-94767-1“The Lady and the Unicorn,” written by Tracy Chevalier, is a historical fiction novel about medieval French tapestries which depict a woman seducing a unicorn.
Jean Le Viste, a French nobleman, commissions a Parisian painter, Nicolas des Innocents, to create a set of six tapestries.
Meanwhile Nicolas becomes caught between three women, yet the one he loves most is Claude, the daughter of Jean Le Viste.
When Jean Le Viste’s wife, Genevieve De Nanterre, sees that Claude has fallen in love with Nicolas, she does everything in her power to isolate them from each other.
Menarik sekaligus cerdas, karena kita bisa melihat masalah dari persepsi yang berbeda-beda dengan benang merahnya proses pembuatan permadani Lady dan Unicorn.Sudut pandang Nicholas sebagai pembuka cerita lumayan membuat saya terkaget-kaget dengan kalimatnya yang vulgar.
Bahkan beberapa kali saya sempat mengernyitkan jidat dan berkata dalam hati,” jiahh, ini pelukis genit banget!” Karakternya yang sombong dan tukang rayu juga bikin saya ingin menendangnya!Claude lain lagi, gadis muda yang ternyata juga tergila-gila dengan Nicholas.
Apabila tertarik lebih jauh dengan kisah Lady dan Unicorn, di websitenya tchevalier.com juga ada penjelasan tentang latar belakang Jean Le Viste berikut fotonya, yang menarik lagi di webnya kita juga bisa mengetahui cara pembuatan permadani yang memang diceritakan cukup detil di bukunya.
За разлику од великог броја бестселер аутора који су у стању да избаце по 5-6 романа који сви личе једни на друге - њен сваки роман је прича за себе, нека нова тема чијем се истраживању и проучавању она максимално посвети и због тога никада ниједном њеном роману не бих дала лошу оцену.Без обзира што можда они сами по себи нису ништа спектакуларно - ја сам после сваког научила нешто ново, после сваког сам претраживала интернет у жељи да сазнам још више, видим слике и сл.
Jean Le Viste commissions painter Nicholas des Innocents to design six tapestries that will be hung in a grand hall within his magnificent Paris home.
Of course, this love is not meant to be, as Claude is nobility and Nicholas is just a mere painter, not to mention a womanizer and scoundrel, yet he is deliciously appealing.
Nicolas designs six tapestries which depict a series of six ladies, each contributing to the seduction of a unicorn.
Nicolas is sent to Brussels to oversee the weaving of his designs, and in doing so, helps a blind young woman, Alienor, change the course of her life.
Otherwise, I start forming expectations of plot lines, style, and tone for the book, and usually end up (perhaps unfairly) disappointed when the book doesn't measure up.All that to say, I've seen the tapestries on which this book is based, and I was really hoping for a better story than Chevalier has given them.
I got to spend quite a while in the tapestries' special room in the Musée national de Moyen Age, and between the moody archival lighting, the exhibit design, and the impressive presence of the tapestries themselves, I left with a strong sense that these were artifacts of consequence.So, to have much of the story boil down to, "Well, there's this artist, and he really wants to get into some ladies' pants.
A set of medievel tapestries hang today in a chamber in Paris,portaying a women's seduction of a unicorn.
The story behind the tapestry is unknown, but Tracy Chevalier weaves fact and fiction to help us unfold the story with her book,"The Lady and the Unicorn".
I really enjoyed reading this book, because of the way it was written.
You can look up further information on these tapestries any where online.I know that there is still a lot you can learn from after reading this book and exploring the web about the bewitching medievel tapestries.
The books mixes the fiction and the history incredibly well so well that I found myself looking up the names to see if they were purely fiction or had actually lived.
It's a bouncing narrative which changes from chapter to chapter but this is one of those books in which the transistions are done so incredibly well.
And this story that Chevalier that builds around these pieces of art will definitely make you look at the tapestries differently.
Excepcional novela que conjuga tapices, amor e historia. Es incríble la capacidad que tiene esta autora de presentar personajes tan diversos (con personalidades y ambiciones diferentes, muchas veces marcados por su estracto social) y enlazarlos en una sola historia.Lo que más me gustó sin duda, es el estudio previó que hizo la autora de todo el proceso que conllevaba un tapiz, y también la iconografía de los símbolos, que además plasmó de una manera muy natural en la novela.Altamente recomendable.
You can tell from the first few pages that the author really did her homework on the history of tapestries.
Everything is very well-documented, from how exactly a tapestry was made to the usual way a Belgian workshop was organized and run.
(The best medieval workshops for tapestries were in Belgium).It's lovely that Tracy Chevalier thought of a way to explain the famous unicorn tapestries in Cluny and how they came to be.
The motif of the lady and the unicorn may be one of the most poetic themes in the world, but most of the times the characters in the book are decidedly prosaic.
He calls the women he wishes to seduce, "Beauty," and offers to tell them the story of the unicorn's horn.Through the words of Nicolas' true object of desire, Claude, the daughter of the nobleman commissioning the work, we learn much about the place of women in Paris society at the end of the fifteenth century.
In fact, this is also true about all the ladies featured in the story and ultimately in the tapestry: Claude's long-suffering mother, Genevieve de Nanterre, the blind daughter of the weaver, Alienor, and her mother, Christine, who longs to be a weaver although the Brussel's weaver's guild forbids it.Other unforgettable characters include the lady-in-waiting, Beatrice, and the servant Marie-Celeste.Chevalier has clearly done her research, and in doing so, allows the reader to experience this story with all five senses.
