https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56140.Cadillac_Desert
Reisner's whole book is basically saying the same thing about the entire Southwestern United States.The irony is that this book was largely written at a time when it was abundantly clear than energy, not water, was the common denominator in resource policy.
The people go where they do and the water must follow.(3) Los Angeles and the San Joaquin valley get slammed with plenty of heat in this book and it's well deserved.
Does it make sense for the government to pay large farming corporations in the form of cheap water while it pays other farmers in the east not to grow certain things?
Reisner was writing without the benefit of Endnote, after all, and he was a well-respected, tweedy-looking academic, so I should just trust him, right?Some intriguing propositions:Teddy Roosevelt personally colluded with the city of Los Angles, the Reclamation Service, and the Forest Service to destroy the irrigated communities in Owens Valley for the sake of LA.I guess the fact that TR's brand of environmentalism was way more utilitarian than most people think isn't exactly news, but the fact that his utilitarianism extended to provisioning a metropolis like LA was a bit surprising.Irrigated agriculture in the American West was (is?) supported by a welfare state.Apparently it's ok for the state to pay farmers in Ohio not to farm while practically giving away subsidized water to giant agribusiness conglomerates owned by oil companies in California, but universal healthcare is a waste of money and would never work.
Reisner takes a close and critical look at the very notion of irrigation farming in a desert, its costs, benefits and long term consequences (depletion of the Ogallala Aquifer; deadly salinity levels of land and water, the making of “wild river” an oxymoron, etc.).
. Moving water in California requires more electrical energy than is used by several states.” First published in 1986 and subsequently revised in 1993, Cadillac Desert, if less prophetic now than it was 20-25 years ago, remains relevant and instructive.
if this doesn't make you want to take Los Angeles and associated farmland and dump it in the ocean - nothing will. Great history of water development in the west.
...just a chapter or two in, i already predict this will be one of the more important books i read this decade
Also lots of long lists of dams and their capacity, projects and their ill-fatedness, many mentions of millions of acre-feet.Marc Reisner was director of communications for the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), so he leans towards preservation of the natural environment (i.e. not dams).
As it is, I had to come back to it several times to get through it.The original copyright is 1986, and he added an epilogue in 1992 I believe.
His book is filled with predictions of disaster.
I'd love to see an accounting of how well his predictions have come true.
If you read only one book about the role of water in the west, this should be the one.
Reisner recounts the complex and often violent history of efforts to control water in this dry land.
There is so much history to tell about the way the huge dams along the Colorado River were sold to the American public based on benefits that never fully materialized.
It is sobering to think how Reisner's story will play out since written in the late 1980's with the growing population and increasing droughts from climate change.
Marc Reisner’s classic, Cadillac Desert, takes us for a walk on the wet side, revealing far more than you ever wanted to know about dams, flood control, irrigation, and municipal water systems — and the serious long-term drawbacks that came along with building thousands of water projects in the frenzied pursuit of short-term wealth and power.
A sense of history is powerful medicine, an essential component for an extended stay on this planet.We know that any dam that doesn’t collapse will eventually fill with silt and turn into an extremely expensive waterfall — no more power generation, no more flood control, no more irrigation.
This book is really important and interesting , going over the history of the West, in particular the history of irrigation , aqueducts and water projects in the West . However, it's so depressing that I only made it halfway through the book. Greed, Manifest Destiny, and wishful thinking based on greed...
Cadillac Desert: The American West and Its Disappearing Water - 22 Tapes Unabridged (Part 1 & 2) ~30 hours http://www.amazon.com/Cadillac-Desert...From Library Journal: Dams ostensibly provide indispensable economic development through flood control, irrigation, and recreation.
They advocate traditional irrigation as environmentally sound and economically beneficial.
Reisner focuses more narrowly on North America in his portrayal of the personalities and agencies (e.g., Bureau of Reclamation and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers), and the manipulation and deceit through which water policy in the United States has evolved.
With different approaches, both volumes take effective aim at the vested interests that perpetuate unsound water resource development.
That was a slow read.
And the author was very fond of obscure words.
Obscure words that I refuse to look up, and I don't think I would have even with an electronic copy.
I read this book due to its reference in The Water Knife.
It seemed like an awful lot that happened in that fictional book also happened in real world California.
This book was pretty darn informative but mostly it talked about people acting in their short-term selfish self-interest.
In the end this book was a lot about how politics didn't work for 100 years.
It was a blanket death sentence for free flowing rivers"...Never before had so little economic development been proposed at such exorbitant cost." Today, according to the US Army Corps of Engineers' database, there are approximately 75,000 dams in the USA.
Mark claims that by the time the Colorado River hits Los Angeles, a cup of water has approximately three tablespoons of salt in it.
In 1963 the Central Arizona Project ensured their water would come from the lower basin states on the Colorado River.
A huge portion of our federal deficit was first run up as a result of water projects, and the economic realities of most of these projects haven't gotten better since.I could ramble for days, but the truth is, you should just read this massive (and massively depressing) book, because I guarantee there's an awful lot of history in here that you never studied in school, especially if you grew up in or near some of the places most affected by these water projects.Now if only someone would take Reisner's masterpiece (he died in 2000) and update it with more current data...[5 stars for brilliant investigative reporting and offering a stark take on the historical myths we all too often learned when it comes to water, the West, and this idea that we as people belong in these stark landscapes—or that we can improve on them.
As California sweats through a fourth year of drought I thought it might be a good time to read this history of water development in the American West.
The heart of the tale is the history of the Bureau of Reclamation and its metamorphosis under FDR from a lands program for small farmers to a powerful agency hellbent on damming virtually every river of meaningful size in the lower 48, and pushing around any native tribes, towns or farmers that got in its way.The central truth here is that nearly all new dam projects make little to no economic sense from an irrigation perspective.
In 1927, Mulholland declared war, securing L.A.'s legal rights to Owens Valley water with a massive show of armed force.When the huge San Francisquito dam -- part of the aqueduct project -- burst in 1928, it caused the worst California disaster since the San Francisco earthquake in 1906.
Roosevelt and the little-known Bureau of Reclamation, funding the giant Central Valley Project, the largest water works in history.
Aside from the major political, economic, and environmental themes, there's a lot of interesting information about dam engineering (and how catastrophic dam failure occurs), climatology, geology, and the history of the settlement of the American West (I finally know what John Wesley Powell is famous for!).By way of criticism, the opening section on the settlement and building of L.A. is long and sometimes feels more like a blizzard of names than a coherent narrative; also, the author leans toward conspiratorial interpretations which are surely often correct but which at other times feel overly simplistic--note, e.g., the "blue envelope" trope which, I would agree with other government employees with whom I've discussed the book, is way, way overdone.
I read this non-fiction book after reading the fiction book, The Water Knife, which mentions Cadillac Desert multiple times.
It's entirely deserved, mind you, but the sheer and ceaseless inundation of greed, corruption, and ignorance depicted in the politicians and leaders behind the American southwest's water policy became too hard to swallow.
I'm happy I read what I did, for this was a topic on which I was wholly ignorant.
But I'm also quite happy I stopped when I did, for the book's themes become entirely repetitive and redundant.
Yet time and time again, extremely right-wing officials went running to the federal government to build them more and more dams and canals with extremely dubious financial or environmental merits, sucking money and people away from perfectly habitable states.
Is the New Deal vision of infrastructure as progress, the TVAs and LCRAs, simply a mistake?Reisner has an excellent paragraph that makes this very point: "The irrigation farmers not only had come to expect heavily subsidized water as a kind of right, allowing them to pretend that the region's preeminent natural fact - a drastic scarcity of that substance - was an illusion.

Southern California, most of Arizona, most of New Mexico, West Texas, eastern Colorado, eastern Wyoming, most of Utah, parts of Idaho, and pretty much all of Nevada are not hospitable places for humans.
These places are all west of the 100th meridian, the line generally that divides east from west, and dry from wet.
As more and more people move to the warm climate that the West offers, Reisner hopes that the water policy in the western states takes account of the beautiful land and the life (both human and animal) that lives in it.
What began as an attempt to deliver water to poor, struggling farmers, became a nearly unstoppable machine that made wealthy men richer, concentrated political power in the hands of a few, and made a mockery of the notion that our country is based on a free-market economy.The Bureau of Reclamation and the Army Corps of Engineers have built thousands of dams in the past hundred years.
Or are we going to change our policies, eliminate waste and perverse subsidies, make farmers pay market prices for their water, and retire land kept alive by taxpayer money?
No matter how hard I tried, I just couldn't keep with this book.
The first part of the book discusses the manner in which officials from Los Angeles hijack the water from the Owens Valley in order to line the pockets of several businessmen, while ostensibly securing water for the future of Los Angeles.
It is a compelling story, but early on, you get the sense that Marc Reisner is writing with a pretty irritated tone.
I can't help feeling that he is just unhappy with everyone involved.I see a lot of other glowing reviews about this book, so perhaps I am missing something.
Wonderfully engaging overview of the history of water development in the west.
Reisner is incredibly funny, and pieces together a compelling history of the bloated egos and budgets that led to some of the most short-sighted public projects in the history of the world.
To know the history of water in America is to be given a glimpse into the larger problems that face our country today.
What I most appreciated was how Reisner turns the term "welfare state" on its head, and illustrates how some of the most useless and most expensive publicly-funded infrastructure projects of all time are supported by the people who tout less government intervention as the key to a viable economy.
this book is a stunning chronicle of the damming of america's rivers, mainly in the west.
we grow fruit and vegetable crops in naturally arid regions in deserts or mountain shadows (san fernando valley ca, owens valley ca, se az...)we have displaced families, drained lakes, flooded majestic canyons and let them fill with silt, salinated soils, leeched underground aquifers, diverted mighty rivers and reduced them to mere trickles.
but we are ever thirsty for water, and power, and hungry for fruits and vegetables all seasons, grown with the water we manage and control.all in all, i would suggest picking this book up from the library, even if only to read the introduction, first and last chapters, and afterword.
A simply great book about the past, present and future of water in the U.S. The focus is on the dry side of America, but not just west of the Rockies.
The High Plains and the Ogalalla Aquifer, as well as the Upper Missouri, get extended treatment.So too does the fact that "rugged Westerners" are ultimately usually socialists when it comes to the issue of water and it being supplied to farms at below cost by the federal government, and acreage limits then being broken.It's not just the lack of water and cost of water Reisner covers.
From monstrous dams (and a few monstrous dam blow-outs - one just a mile further up the canyon from where I live) to the earliest irrigation projects in the modern West (Mormons - the only group of western settlers willing to work together on something) - to the current and ancient problem of salt, it's all here, and Resiner's wry style keeps you going.Sample: Teddy Roosevelt is looking for a patsy sponsor for a dam he wants built for political reasons and finds his man in young Congressman Frank Mondell of Wyoming.
Heh. Guess who gets his dam built.
Sweeping saga of the history of the water wars in the American southwest.
Details the incredible corruption that led to the birth of Los Angeles and its surrounding counties -- a series of lush irrigated oases where Mother Nature intended to be a barren desert.
There is literally nothing in this history of water acquisition that is not dirty, from Los Angeles' outright theft of water from the Colorado River to the forced displacement of already displaced Native American tribes, from the construction of useless dams as state pork barrel projects to the gross irrigation subsidies for corporate farmers.
An interesting work.
Water in the American Southwest is a key issue.
The land itself is pretty arid and water is at a premium.
Simply, there is not enough water for the many competing demands--from native Americans to water promised Mexico to water in the American West.
This work chronicles the struggles for various regions to get the water that they need.
It is not always a pretty story (Los Anegeles' thirst for water and some of the tactics used is, at least, unsavory).
Sometimes, I think that the author, Marc Reisner, is excessively critical, but--in the end-- a useful examination of an important problem.
While this book is nearly 30 years old it is still as fresh as a plunge into a cold mountain stream. I would like to see a supplement of the work covering the more recent past.
4.5 stars. Epic...
