https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1033113.Body_Language
The questions printed on the cover of this book is the reason for which I bought this book….and I did not find the answers in any page. I guess this book’s body language is misleading.As the writer stated at the end “Body language as a science is in its infancy, but this book has explored some of the ground rules…”It’s an introductory book in body language, so don’t expect it to quench your thirst in this field.
This book is groundbreaking... if you read it 40 years ago. Now, it's just filled with obvious observations that any half-way paying attention person can make like, "If a woman is frowning then she may--or may not--be upset." Ok, maybe the book isn't that obvious, but you don't really want me to spoil all of it for you, do you? But I do want to thank Julius Fast for giving me the line, "Nah, baby, I wasn't staring. I was just admiring your particular mode of nonverbal communication. It's very inspiring." Good looking out Captain Obvious!
If you want a book that tells you why you should learn body language, you've found what you're looking for — otherwise, this is a waste of your time.I saved this book from being thrown away because I hoped I could glean some useful information about how to read (and, I confess, manipulate) body language.
This book is an ostentatious prologue to the actual art of reading body language.
Fast often refers to the work of others, and for himself only drops a few hints and tidbits of information that could be practically applied.In the end, I learned only a couples facts aside from figuring out I should have ditched this book in favour of something more contemporary and actually informative.
The power of body language is much stronger than I thought, and now I have learned so much about interpreting it and being aware of what one does - and that your body can say the opposite of what is coming out of your mouth!If you're interested in people and culture, this is really a book you should check out.
It's not long, and isn't written in a heavy, scientific matter.Now as I've moved from Norway to Florida to work at the Epcot world showcase, I'm starting to become much more aware of the cultural differences we all have - including in body language.
We looked at pictures of fashion models in magazines and read elaborate descriptions of the meanings of men's suits.
I learned a great deal from that class, though I don't know that learning to take semiotics seriously (or to stay awake and focused through a chapter of Barthes's writing) was really part of it.
Rather, I learned a few very interesting things about architecture and some intriguing theories about elements of human behavior, and I learned a great deal about my own reactions to what I saw as a high ratio of theoretical elaboration to clear evidence.In some ways, this book reminds me of that class.
Julius Fasts ’’The Body language’’ is very simple.
It is very simple and ‘’light’’ and nothing to complicated or overworked and the reason to that is perhaps that this field - the body language - was, upon the books release (1970), new.
Julius Fast basically gives you the basics - the ''easy'' introduction to the body language - and in the process he does discuss some good points regarding the body language and how you could/should read it and nothing more.
Keep in mind that Julius Fasts ''Body Language'' is old - it is possible that you might find some better or more modern and updated works on the subject.
This is indeed a very interesting book.
The subject covered in this book was not very developed at this time.
With the evolution of communication (non-verbal), society has learned to understand the language of the body.
But in reality, people still do not master this matter.
The body speaks, and speaks truth, without our consent.
Experts can discover truths through people's behavior and gestures.
It is a very useful science in many professions.
See some examples below.«Ser ou não ser, eis a questão» (to be or not be the question) http://www.raquelpimentel.com/2012/07...«A Linguagem do Corpo» (the body language) http://www.raquelpimentel.com/2012/07...
It was interesting to read this book that really helps in our life and social one specifically . the writer previews Dr's opinions and studies about every movement we do and what does it mean in the body language . one of them says that if you were in a cafe and choose to set in the middle of an empty table , means that your body is saying " I don't want to share the table with anyone "
What do I do with my hands??!! Someone said I should keep an eye on my mother ... but that's the last person I want to be like ... so, having discovered a slick way out of my teenage conundrum, I read this book, which was neatly hidden in mom's bookshelf!
I read the 4th edition (1971) and the cover was way more bitchin. It has some serious "pc" issues, but served as an "at hand" (purchased used because the jacket is hilarious) introduction. I'm sure there's a way better resource out there.
Có 2 chương dành cho người độc thân - đọc hiểu tín hiệu người mình thấy hứng thú trong cuộc họp mặt công cộng.
Có 4 vùng không gian ở mỗi cá nhân : thân mật - cá nhân - xã hội và công cộng.
Mỗi cá nhân khi ra ngoài giao tiếp mang theo trong mình văn hoá gia đình- mà tác giả chia làm 2 kiểu : khép kín và mở.
Cũng như cộng đồng, một gia đình khép kín sẽ chứa yếu tố bảo thủ, đè nén, trật tự, quyền hạn trong khi gia đình mở mang đến nhiều tự do và sự thoải mái.
With reference to research, real life situations, and reasoning the authors attempt to describe what we know about human practice in proxemics, face, ritual, expression, and motion.
This book, well, was written in the 70s (while reading I came across things that caused me to check this fact more than once), and it seems that there's little concern for the type of political correctness I experience now on a daily basis.
Quite a bit of the book was entertaining to read, but I question the validity of some claims in the text.
It's a bit too generalized at times and too vague at others.
I got this book from a friend of mine who was giving things away before moving.
I pointed out some rather disturbing pieces of sexism in the book and then she remembered.
She apologized for not throwing it away instead of giving it away.
At one point the author makes a middle aged man into a victim because he treated a young woman like a piece of meat and she gave him a a piece of her mind in return.
At another point he makes men the victims for receiving a tongue lashing after they merely "relaxed themselves" against women on the subway.
Not what I was hoping for. Body Language provides a tantalizing introduction to what could be a very insightful approach to interpersonal communication. Unfortunately, it provides very little usable information and a great deal of ambiguity. I am sure that the field has advanced in the last 45+ years since publication. I'll have to look for a more up-to-date offering.
Es un buen libro para saber expresarte usando la kinesia, en cada pequeña lección cuenta un breve relato sobre el como varía la apreciación de cada persona y no siempre significa lo que pensamos, Se enfoca en situaciones cotidianas y van relacionadas con el ligue.
It was interesting and further gets me interested in sociology and psychology.
An interesting primer on the subject, but it's painfully outdated, written just as scientists began to study the subject in the 1970s.
One of the most common criticisms in writing workshops is there are too many smiling and eye verbs.
For those of you not in the know, it boils down to the fact that if there’s a gesture, the character usually smiles, or “does something” with his/her eyes.
And, as many writers watch television and movies, we’re obviously influenced by what we see.[return][return]So, like many writers, I have a lot of smiling and eye verbs.
I don’t know if I’d recommend this book in particular (after all, there’s tons of stuff out available nowadays, all divided into neat categories), but I’d definitely recommend reading up on the subject.
I didn't care much for it. It told me a great deal about the science of body language. However for me all those questions on the cover will still be unanswered at the end. It was very dry. It will be going to charity.
Fast's book, now very old (1971), provides an overview of the then emerging field of body language ("A science called Kinesics").
A subtext to this book is not just what one can learn by observing, but also what body signals one can employ for more effective social interactions.
Although Fast doesn't use this terminology, body language works through a circuit of energy between the self and other.
Fast's primary theme is that the body reveals much if not most of what is essential to understand in social interactions.
Speaking of simple body movements, giving them a evolutionarily historical perspective, elaborating the relevance of these movements in the current "civilized" society and much more, JF does a great job in explaining the theoretical origins of body language. Despite being amongst the first few books on this subject, the content remains totally contemporary. The book only falls short regarding the updation of many findings that have been uncovered by ever-enthusiastic researchers within the past 40 years. Nevertheless, extremely interesting and instructional, this is a must read book for all.
The book was written in 1970 so was interesting to read about the various social settings (such as a therapist smoking while talking to her patient) and social strata were described. Other than that, I didn't get that much out of the book. Maybe the discussions and theories presented were groundbreaking at the time, but I found the book wanting for information and heft. Easily read it in a few hours on a plane. Kind of disappointing really. I would not read it again. But enjoyed the conversational style of the author.
a classic about body language.i learned to decipher and express body language from this book when i was a teen. so to a certain degree there has never been any spontaneity or naturalness in deciphering or expressing it. now i re-read it as an audiobook and it's every bit as good. it'll be read again and again, as i try to learn to better decipher people's body language and intentions from voice alone.
Body Language by Julius Fast (Pocket Books 1970) (153.0). The premise of this book is that one's body sends out subconscious signals all the time, and that one's true thoughts and feelings can easily be decoded by one who knows how to read “body language.” It's hard to believe now that this was new knowledge in the 1970's! My rating: 7/10, finished 1972.
An informative, enlightening, easy-to-read book on the developing science of kinesiology or communication through bodily movements and expressions. A must read for the active social communicator. First published three and a half decades ago, this book continues to remain useful as a refresher in practical application of this essential skill.
This is a great book that raises more questions than it answers. It's designed to pique your curiosity, not satisfy it.This book will equip you with the foundation to go out and do your own experiments and observations. The book still hasn't been written on body language, so get out there and learn the language!
1st Read: May 13, 1996 - May 16, 1996 Considering when this had first arrived in bookstores and the people that bought and read it, it must have been a game changer for the pick up artists and swingers! There were interesting ideas and situations in the book. For the most part, nearly everything in here is second nature by today's standards.
Actual rating: 3.5It's crazy to think that we only began to seriously look into and study body language in the 1970's, and not far earlier. You would think that body language, or 'the science of kinesics', would have been studied earlier, especially when you consider that humans have been living on this planet and interacting with each other for at least two millennia.
This is one of the seminal books on the subject of who we transmit messages using our body. Parts of the book need to updated with the new research on para-messaging, how we say things. The body language is impacted by this. Still, this is a vital book for anyone with an interest in non-verbal communication.
Not recommended... Maybe the content is too old...
