https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6217.Kristin_Lavransdatter
Tolkien and Undset both took such great care to imbue their work with eternal life.
The community is not, like in so many other books, a static thing that serves as a canvas for the main character to travel across without resistance.
It's so layered that it portrays almost all aspects of a woman's life during the 14th century.(I specify the era because many things have changed since then but I wish to stress that I noticed that the similarities between the times are more prominent than the differences) Talk about a woman's perspective!
"All my days I have longed equally to travel the right road and to take my own errant path." I am not a great fan of historical fiction, especially not if the main characters are deeply religious to the point of sacrificing themselves and their happiness in order to be forgiven for their sins (their moments of passion and life, that is!).So I was not expecting to like Kristin Lavransdotter at all when I started reading the hardback copy I bought for some coins in a secondhand store.
A historical epic divided in three installments – The Wreath, The Wife and The Cross – that unfolds the life of Kristin Lavrandsatter, a woman of noble ancestry in Medieval Norway, from birth to death.
To blossom in the face of Death, like Undset’s characters do, requires blind faith and that is something an incredulous dilettante like myself can’t indulge in; and so to all those daredevils who think like I do, I toast to life, while it lasts, and to its paradoxical absurdities, which I embrace without pretensions, hoping to reach the end of this bumpy journey with a full heart rather than fearful hope.
But she couldn’t help it; it was her nature to love with great toil and care. When I read, I seek the marrow of things. Details and description of lands I shall never see and times I shall never know are all very well, but I am a human being, and it is human beings I am concerned with. It is easier for me with some books than others due to commonalities of sex and race and culture, but more often than not that is a surface tension appeal, a reliance on shared references that both author and I i
The woman who takes a path different from what has been ordained is a popular topic in the classics, but it is a rare piece of literature that so thoroughly and humanely follows that "fallen" life to its end.
Where Middlemarch plucks and bends but more often than not turns towards the realistic happy ending, Kristin Lavransdatter triggers the fall, follows them down, and watches these human beings wrest their own measure of self-worth from a narrative that in any other work would have ended with the finality of death.
This one should be subtitled, "decent people make scads of bad decisions and then agonize over them." Seriously.
I am surprised to have liked it as much as I did, because there is no reason this massive book should work.
And yet, it does precisely because of all the reasons why it shouldn't: plot and pace sacrificed to character development, pages and pages of seemingly trivial detail and enough Catholicism to fill a smallish catechism.
Taken individually, its separate parts sound like a grueling exercise in literary masochism, but combined, there is no clearer fictional portrait of medieval life.
The original translation into english by Charles Archer, which I tried to read unsuccessfully several years ago, is filled with unauthentic arhaic language that is not true to Sigrid Undset's original Norwegian text which was written in clear and beautiful modern prose despite its medieval context.
But, to quote Brad Leithauser in his introduction to the book, "her unshakable guilt in no way paralyzes her and she carries on with her life." Undset's potent message is that even though we may experience pain and sorrow over our choices one cannot squander one's life in regret and bitterness, failing to recognize the blessings and happiness we have been given.
I've seen Kristin Lavransdatter described as a book about a young woman who "defies her family and faith to follow the passions of her heart." Well, yes.
She is fairly unique among those who write about illicit love because she focuses less on the act than on the consequences of the act.This is a book about sin and redemption.
The consequences of Kristin choosing herself before God — a thing called sin — echo, and echo, and echo for the rest of her life, affecting not only Kristin herself but everyone she loves.
(Though Undset's other major work, which I read as an omnibus volume before this one, the quartet of novels collectively titled The Master of Hestviken, has a male protagonist.) Undset, however, set her work at a later time (the 13th or, in this case, 14th centuries) and covered her main characters' entire lives starting in childhood, which gives her work more of an epic scope.
But (although the Goodreads description ignores this fact), Undset is as concerned with her characters' relationship with God as with their human relationships; this gives the novels an added dimension of spiritual depth that was a definite plus for me.
3) Kristin is a strong, well-characterized female lead, which is rarer than one would hope and something to appreciate in the fiction world.4) Undset bestowed convincing three-dimensionality upon the host of characters who parade in an out of her >1100 pages.5) The book contains some of the most beautiful and powerful descriptions of motherhood and mother-love I have yet encountered in a work of fiction, including the real pregnancy, birth, breastfeeding and sleep-sharing stuff that that doesn’t usually make the cut.6) Not that I’m a total snob or anything, but…the Nobel Prize, for cripe’s sake!7) And, to cap it all off, the narrative glue that holds all of this together is an epic love story.I mean, sounds pretty amazing, right??
On paper that sounds great - it's really not so great when you think about stuff that was going on in 14th-century Norway.Things I liked:- Massive books make me happy.
I couldn't help it - at times I forgot that Undset wrote this in the 1920s; it feels very much like it was written three or four hundred years ago.Things I didn't like:- The characters.
And I don't care what anyone says, I am not convinced that the majority of the characters were even necessary.- As well-researched as the book was, and as beautiful as the descriptions of the scenery were, I think Undset often got tired of writing.
If you want to read about medieval times without getting bored, this book is a great choice.
I am glad I spent the summer reading this book, since it included so much history and such unique characters.
(By the way, reading about the Middle Ages during the summer is a unique experience, and I strongly recommend it.) However, it is more than just a historical novel about the Middle Ages.
Kristin and Erlend have a tempestuous life together.
I really enjoyed this book, because the characters seem very real and it is historically accurate.
Kristin Lavransdatter won the Nobel Prize in 1928 for its accurate and vivid descriptions of the Middle Ages.
I just bought this book with money and later I am going to read it with my eyes and brain.
To read these things, you'd think the Forest of Arden was wall-to-wall with comely armed maidens, when in fact this kind of gender switch (especially dressing in men's clothes) was sufficiently rare that it was one of the pretexts for burning Saint Joan at the stake.It's a crap technique, a shortcut that violates both history and good taste; dress a modern character in a jerkin and set him down among louts who have never flossed, and you've got a hero.
If the men in her life were any more dissimilar they'd be members of different species; everyone oohs and aahs when a man writes good female characters, but in Kristin Lavransdatter, Undset creates an entire gallery of males, including Kristin's many, many sons, and every one of them convinces.I think this is a masterpiece.
Audio #145Superb! Loved this Top marks story telling
It's almost like reading a diary written by a narrator--the story seems to have no purpose.
We follow Kristen throughout her life, its ups and downs, its joys and sorrows, its moments of drama and its day-to-day monotony.
Her moments of doubt in her faith?
Ultimately, I felt like I was reading the biography of someone who hadn't really accomplished anything of moment.
I know that I have read this wrong and have completely missed the point, but this is just how I feel at the end of this massive book.
"tutto fu bene, anche il mio male" Il romanzo che fece guadagnare il Premio Nobel alla scrittrice norvegese Sigrid Undset è il racconto della vita di una donna ambientato in un Medioevo scandinavo realistico e affascinante con le sue luci ed ombre.Kristin (la sua personalità, i suoi amori, il rapporto con il padre, con i figli, con la società del tempo) e il mondo umanissimo e variegato dei personaggi che la circondano (contadini, nobili, guerrieri, generosi, peccatori) sono resi con la forza d

This is one of the finest novels I have ever read. Until reading about it to write this note, I had not realized that it was one of the first novels to describe the entire life of a woman who was not a royal. My estimation of the book may be influenced by the fact that I purchased and read it in Norway while spending two months there visting family. Consequently, I was able to visit several of the sites which play a part in the novel while reading it.
As Kristin grows, her unconscious sensuality works as a catalyst on the young men of her acquaintance, setting the theme for her adolescence when it's her own sexuality which comes to the fore.Written in the 1920s, this reminded me of Thomas Hardy: the attention to rural rituals and calendar, the focus on young womanhood - and, in places, Kristin recalled Tess to my mind.
Whereas Hardy's Tess is 'a pure woman', Undset is quite sure that Kristin is not.
This volume ends with Kristin's marriage, and I'm certainly keen to move on to the next section of her story.
Originally published in three volumes, this trilogy chronicles an early 14th century Norwegian woman, mistress of a substantial estate, from childhood through her death half a century later.
Undset is a Nobel Prize in Literature winner, so it is not surprising that her prose is solid, although not particularly poetic.
What I really enjoyed about this novel was the opportunity to be immersed in a time whose daily cultural details I know little about.
This was published nearly a century ago, so I do not know if subsequent historical research has altered our understanding of daily life in 14th century Norway, but I suspect that this novel gets more right than not.
Few authors could write about such a foreign world in a way that’s both realistic and accessible, but that’s just what Undset does; at times it was hard to believe that the story was set in medieval times, not because there’s anachronism present (there isn’t) but because the characters are so human and relatable regardless.The writing is excellent, and Nunnally’s translation superb: the prose is smooth and absorbing, very readable but with a hint of distance that puts the reader in mind of ancient sagas.
Da una parte ero prevenuta, temevo fosse troppo legato a un modo di vivere la religione a me lontano, dall'altra ero incuriosita perché non conoscevo l'autrice, norvegese, premio Nobel del 1928.
E invece la storia mi ha coinvolto completamente, non solo perché è stata una lettura piacevole nonostante l'elevato numero di pagine, ma per la profonda umanità e realismo dei personaggi, immersi nella religione, superstizione, magia, violenza tipiche del medioevo.
In fondo il cuore umano è sempre quello, e Kristin non è solo una donna del suo tempo, ma di tutti i tempi: La sua vita è un cammino quasi "dostoevskiano", con le sue forti contraddizioni tra passioni, paure e ricerca di una spiritualità che vada oltre la sofferenza e la bellezza del vivere quotidiano.
Simply beautiful.
Sigrid Undset is was an artist with a deep understanding of human nature, natural consequences, and history--the medieval history of Norway.
This novel series touched many deep cords within me.
I'm awakened in new ways.
I cried.
The description of motherhood and all its joys and sorrows were perfectly described and came alive in beautiful descriptions.
I've been pondering on what I could say about a book that touched me so personally, so deeply, and moved me.
Normally, I would never read a book that covers a person's life to the end, but THIS, THIS was a well-done masterpiece.
This is a beautiful book if it's what you're looking for: a sustained character study and a poignant, ultimately tragic, look at the ultimate futility of earthly life from an author with an authentic sympathy for the medieval mindset.
At 1124 pages, it follows essentially the entirety of a medieval Norwegian noblewoman's life, from her childhood through a torrid, illicit affair, through her resulting troubled marriage, and beyond.It is a character study.
It's powerful, it's haunting...authentic is the word that keeps coming back to mind.I deliberately chose to read this book in order to learn better how to write characters in a non-modern mindset, and I find myself richly rewarded.
Unfortunately the resemblance stops here, as this novel is not so much known today, and the movie set on the book was far from Peter Jackson's masterpiece.Undset’s writing is fluid and beautifully, and reveals the wild countryside of Norway in the 14th century, with a carefully depicted immersion in the day-to-day life, social, political and religious of conventions the period.Kristin is a powerful character, and a compelling portrait of a unique individual in her historical and social context — that thinks and lives in the future of its own historical period, still being able to survive in that context.
It is the story of one woman from childhood to death, through betrothal and an illicit affair, marriage and motherhood.
Set in 14th century Norway, this novel follows the story of Kristin Lavransdatter from the age of 7 to the 51.
Christianity is firmly established in Norway, but vestiges of paganism remain when famine or plagues strike.
Undset won a Nobel prize for the book and it's clear why.
The descriptions of the natural setting and the way she described characters makes it one of the best novels I've read.
It's a long book and I feel like really did watch all of Kristin's life unfold.
If your library has it, you should check it out--or come to Zurich and take my copy home with you.
Forse l'unico pregio si trova nella descrizione dei paesaggi e degli usi e costumi norvegesi durante il medioevo; purtroppo queste descrizioni si perdono tra le molte altre cose che non ho apprezzato.English reviewIt was a torture to finish this book but I held on because I was reading it as a readalong with other members but also because by the same author I had read Jenny and liked it though the start was a little bit slow.My edition of Kristin Lavransdatter has the whole trilogy and the story deals with Kristin's life from childhood to death and it is set in medieval Norway.Kristin is the most hateful character I've ever met; she wants to behave like a devout person, chaste and pious but she is proud, arrogant and self-centered.The characters' behavior suddenly change and the reader doesn't know what happened in their mind and why they acted that way; they seem contradictory and hysterical.
I don't know what to do now, for these characters have been my companions since February.
I'm emotionally hung over and will be thinking about this story for a long time to come.
I'd like to re-read it this winter knowing what I know now.I have so many thoughts about Kristin.
At times I had such compassion towards her.
At times I was frustrated with her.
She is SO raw and real as are all the characters.I LOVED learning about Norway in the Middle Ages.Sigrid Undset is an amazing writer and I will be reading more of her books.I feel this review is very inadequate.
The epic of all re-readable epics, Kristin Lavransdatter is a three book series that must be read through to the end, for it is one story covering the whole life of the protagonist.It is set in Norway in the 14th Century, a time and place where faith was intricately interwoven with life, and when land and family, inheritance and name were the full extent of one's identity - Lavransdatter means daughter of Lavrans.Yet it is also a familiar and human story about the love and enmity between people, about the decisions we face, the choices we make, and their consequences for ourselves and others.
It's life-changing.
I read the "unauthentic archaic language" original translation by Charles Archer that is "not true to...original Norwegian text" according to Ashley's review and I did almost give up after 20 or 40 pages but I kept going anyway.
It's so good now I'm tracking down the Nunnally translation.
This work is very Catholic and traditional in it's examination of morality.
The action take place in 1300-1350 Norway.OK I've read the other translation and recommend it instead.
It's modern & easier to read.
The old translation was artificially archaic.
I will post a review at that edition.
One of the first real historical novels that I read as a teen -- and still do as an adult. Set in Norway in the 14th century, the tale of Kristen from her childhood to old age is a classic as she makes an impetuous mistake that may or may not be the right choice. Full of joys and heartache, this is a wonderful book, and one that I heartily recommend. For the complete review, please go here:http://www.bubblews.com/news/6647222-...
