https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61834.A_Night_to_Remember
Lord used this technique across a variety of subjects, including Pearl Harbor, the battle of Midway, and the siege of the Alamo, but never so effectively as in A Night to Remember, his certifiably classic telling of the sinking of the R.M.S. Titanic.
Lord's style is encompassed in the first two paragraphs:High in the crow's nest of the New White Star Liner Titanic, Lookout Frederick Fleet peered into a dazzling night.
He leaves Fleet and the crow's nest to tell the stories of other people on different parts of the ship: a quartermaster on the aft docking bridge; a steward in first class; a night baker baking rolls; passengers from all three classes.
(The other nonfiction book he mentioned was Alfred Lansing's Endurance, which I also agree was excellent.)A Night to Remember gives a gripping, detailed account of what happened the night the Titanic hit an iceberg and sank in the Atlantic Ocean, killing more than 1,500 people.
I also liked the context Lord gave to the tragedy:Overriding everything else, the Titanic also marked the end of a general feeling of confidence.
In retrospect, there may seem less grounds for confidence, but at the time most articulate people felt life was all right.The Titanic woke them up.
“Robertson called his ship the Titan; the White Star Line called its ship the Titanic. This is the story of her last night.”
It's hard to argue with the chivalry of "women and children first," but for family after family, particularly among first class passengers, fathers and husbands went down with the ship while mothers, wives, and kiddies (and often the female servants of the very wealthy) rowed away in lifeboats.
They seemed to get the same ideas at the same time, and one of these ideas was to make the maiden voyage of the largest ship in the world.The sinking of the Titanic marked the end of an era in many ways, Lord argues, fairly convincingly.
Book on CD read by Walter JarvisOn April 15, 1912, the greatest ship to ever sail struck an iceberg and sank in the North Atlantic.
This is a chronological tale of what the people aboard the Titanic recall of that night’s events.
If memory serves, I re-read it at about the time the movie was released.
So this is my third reading.It’s a gripping story, and Lord does a great job of bringing all these people to life.
I get a real sense of the confusion and disbelief when the ship first strikes the iceberg.
The special effects were so good that the ship sinking model shots were re-used in the 1958 Brit version, based on this book: "A Night to Remember." In the interim, Hollywood made an attempt in 1953, called simply "Titanic," starring Barbara Stanwyck.
I hesitate to call Lord's treatment of the issues "socially conscious," I just think he was trying to be more "fair and balanced" as a historian than other writers had been previously.There are probably other books that go into greater detail on certain aspects of this story, but I can't imagine there being a better entire book on the Titanic than this.--------* Addendum: 2016:In the intervening years since I wrote this review, I did end up seeing the 1953 Titanic movie, and it is an entertaining potboiler vehicle for Barbara Stanwyck, all gussied up in high-gloss duds and 20th-Century Fox production values and familial bad blood.
But don't blame him too much; he wrote an amazing book.Lord was something of a harmless crank with a bit of a fascination with this big honkin' ship that had run into an iceberg a few decades before.
In fact, if you want to know about the Titanic disaster, I suggest you read this book, watch the movie of the same name that was made from it, and skip the eternal, tedious, and repetitive rest of the literature on the subject.
And at the time, hyping up the movie, there was a lot of books available.A couple of years later, the obsession had faded and it wasn't until the 100th anniversary of the sinking in mid-April that my interest was piqued again.
So I picked up a copy of A Night to Remember.Written in 1955, it reads with a surprisingly modern and appealing voice - it's not stuffy or wordy in it's explanations of what happened that fateful night, and although the 'cast of characters' is long, it's an extremely riveting read.Using interviews with passengers from first, second and third class and crew as a basis for the book, Walter Lord's classic has stood the test of time well.
Now as a teenager, the massive amounts of emotionally fraught presented textual information and details were very much intriguing and certainly kept me hooked and reading all night (as I started A Night to Remember at around nine in the evening after I had completed my required homework and finished at six in the morning the next day) and I still even now much appreciate how both compassionately and with a sense of fair play, Walter Lord tells his story, recounts the sinking of the Titanic and the tragedy of the so many lives lost.
If...If the Titanic had heeded any of the six ice messages on Sunday....if ice conditions had been normal...if the night had been rough or moonlit...if she had seen the berg 15 seconds sooner--or later...if she had hit the ice any other way...if her watertight bulkheads had been one deck higher...if she had carried enough boats...if the Californian had only come.
Most disturbing, however, is that Robertson's ship, which coincidentally was also labeled as "unsinkable," also struck an iceberg and sank on a cold April night.
I've never trusted the month of April.
But April is also the month of disasters...the 1906 Earthquake and Fire, Chernobyl, the Oklahoma City Bombing, Columbine and, of course, the Sinking of the Titanic.
The 'S' is capitalized.Prior to reading Walter Lord's version of the Sinking, the Titanic was just another shipwreck to me, but forever after, it is THE shipwreck.
There are a number of books about the Titanic, but there really is only one.
Lord's Titanic.I will show you fear in a handful of dustYes, April is the cruellest month.Book Season = Spring (still won't travel by boat)
one thing becomes clear reading this book.titanic was a major cock-up.could more have gone wrong on one sea journey.
I really can't decide what the best rating for this book would be.
It's an amazing recollection of first-hand experiences from the night the Titanic went down.
The Titanic is one of my favorite stories from history.
Might have come from seeing it in theaters as a kid, but I'm not 100% certain.
But this book is far more interesting than the movie, only because it's true.
It's interesting to hear just how calm everyone was up until people started physically seeing the water inside the ship.
Although, having cruised on a large ocean liner now myself, I feel like its sinking would also be very unlikely - it just feels so solid, however I guess that was how people felt about the Titanic as well!!
I’m sure the procedures for mustering and filling the lifeboats would also be much more rigorous now than occurred on that evening.I liked this quote toward the end of the book, which seemed to underline the misfortune of the Titanic - “What troubled people especially was not just the tragedy - or even its needlessness - but the element of fate in it all.
During his writing he tracked down and interviewed 63 of the surviving passengers of the ship and he also became a consultant to James Cameron during the filming of the blockbuster disaster movie of all times.Due to these first-hand accounts of the 63 survivors, the book seems like you see the disaster by yourself through their vivid accounts.
And those women and children accepted their fate because they are not the priorities compared to the 40+ men from the upper decks (levels) who got into the earlier boats.
Some of these men disguised as women so they could aboard those boats.I really liked this book.
Walter Lord's book is itself over half a century old (published 1956) and yet it remains highly readable justifying its "classic" tag.Where Lord excels is that he interviewed 63 survivors and weaved their recollections with many other written sources and testimonies to tell a story.
So we read of events before the iceberg strikes the Titanic and the aftermath in the cold calm waters of the ice ridden sea through to the passengers on the Carpathia thinking their own ship is in trouble because blankets are being collected and lifeboats readied.
Walter Lord's immensely factual 1955 book about the sinking of the Titanic gave rise to an absolutely first-rate British semi-documentary film of the same name (1958), and has served as source authority to most sinking-of books and movies ever since, at least in part.
While some aspects of the doomed liner's design, manufacture and demise are known to us that were not known to author Lord, lately the "revelations" have tended toward conspiracy theories and relative minutiae such as criticizing the quality of the rivets that held Titanic together.
Current British paperback: Review updated September 5, 2018.
This book, published first in 1955, is a treasure trove of information about that fateful night on the Titanic. It is really well written and you feel as if you are right there in the midst of the disaster. I've watched quite a few documentaries about the Titanic and really enjoyed this book as well. I highly recommend it. I plan to get other books by Walter Lord as he was a wonderful, nonfiction writer.
But this is about the book not the museum!Very very concise recalling of what happened the night the Titanic sank, but I ended up loving that part of this book the most.
This book is pretty strictly the "facts" from the survivors as they remember that night and it's interesting to see the strange details people remember about things like the carpet or the way people stepped up to handle such a tragedy such as the Countess of Rothes who stepped up to help steer a lifeboat and years later had a flashback only to remember the band was playing the last after-dinner song she heard on the Titanic.
A truely matter of fact account of the sinking of the Titanic, brilliantly told. It's interesting that although first published only about 40 years after the disaster people still had differnt memories of the events that happened. This version is an excellent unabridged audio CD, read by the ever reliable Martin Jarvis.
A narrative as exciting as any thriller, capturing one of the most tragic events the world has ever witnessed.
The unparalleled glory of the Unsinkable ship, the love and labor of its maker, captain and crew, the appalled cries of men, women and children aboard, the silent night, the cold sea with the roaring gigantic ocean liner, RMS Titanic, being devoured into it has fascinated and afflicted thousands of people.
Walter Lord has described all of it in this wonderful book.On a side note, I always associate the tragedy with James Cameron's Titanic theme.
Tonight, in memory of the sinking, the casualties, both the survivors and victims, I decided to read:A NIGHT TO REMEMBER: THE CLASSIC ACCOUNT OF THE FINAL HOURS OF THE TITANIC BY WALTER LORD.
Although I love the movie "Titanic", the main characters are fictional and the characters that were actually real people that were on the ship, not much of their story is shared in the movie.
This book shares a lot of their stories.
Even though I already knew that the ship was going to sink and that there was not enough lifeboats for everyone onboard, the way Walter Lord wrote this book, it played out the scenes dramatically.
I think what helped make this book so interesting, was knowing that the author interviewed many survivors and got first hand accounts of that tragic night.
I would really like to watch the movie that was made from this book.
Lord delivers a riveting account of a tragedy that symbolized the end of an age.
The actions of the crew and passengers depict the extremes of human behavior.
But very disturbing is the behavior of those fortunate enough to be in one of the sixteen lifeboats.
Only one lifeboat went back to save survivors after the Titanic sank even though most had plenty of room.
He also includes interesting commentary on the contemporary newspaper accounts, many of which were racist attributing cowardly acts to blacks and Italians that were actually committed by Anglo-Saxons.
This is a marvelous work of nonfiction in what has to be the definitive classic of the Titanic.Walter Lord has a perfect balance between authorial distance and empathetic immediacy, giving the narrative elements of both suspense and pathos.
This omniscient perspective makes the first half race by like a classical thriller.
Even knowing the Titanic legend by heart, as so many do today, I felt my stomach twist with dread and anticipation, emotions expertly elicited by Lord's simple but engaging prose.The second half, however, solidifies the event's importance.
Seriously, this deserves to be a more acknowledged classic of nonfiction.
A riveting account of the sinking of the Titanic.
It doesn't matter that you know how the story ends--the book is a page turner!
The author, Walter Lord, was a wonderful writer and a class act—he tells this story very well and with great compassion and fairness.
There is great detail here.
Lord researched his book painstakingly and interviewed more than 60 survivors.
Even the list of passengers at the end of the book makes for great reading; it is still heartbreaking to see how many third class passengers—including entire families—died compared to those other passengers whose lives were considered more valuable.
I've always been interested in the Titanic and her fateful maiden journey.
Walter Lord tells the tale of her finally night at sea.
This book was originally published in the 50s but it's content is still relevant.
Lord collects various tales from the survivors themselves.To us now, it's shocking at how calm and unbelieving the passengers were when the ship started going down.
The ship was branded "unsinkable" and everybody truly believed it.
They stayed inside, refused life belts, and thought the whole charade with the life boats was a terrible inconvenience.
The only real knock on this book is that I wish it were more in depth.
I don't know how the author does it, but he manages a sumptuous notice of detail and a very brisk, but not quite hurried pace – of course perfect for a narrative centering on the Titanic. He also draws some interesting cultural conclusions which point to its place in history and why it still fascinates us.
A factual account of the Titanic. A journalist's detailed reporting of what happened according to the survivors. Very thorough. Not my cup of tea, but I am glad I read it. History and nonfiction lovers will give this 5 stars.
I love any book that is about the white star line ships and this one was no exception.This is a classic. Recommended.
