https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91494.The_Death_of_the_Heart
10th Favorite Read of 2015 "Bowen is a major writer....She is what happened after Bloomsbury....the link that connects Virginia Woolf with Iris Murdoch and Muriel Spark." -Victoria GlendinningPortia is sixteen and orphaned and sent to live with her half-brother and sister-in-law in 1930s London.
She moves from the bohemian countryside in Switzerland to an extremely elegant, tasteful but cold and aloof home in downtown London.In her brother's home Portia is slowly maligned, mocked and used by her sister-in-law and her young lover.
And, through the 16 year old orphan Portia, she explores the dismantling havoc innocence can wreak on civilisation’s defence structures – here represented by Anna and Thomas, a somewhat decadent married pair whose life is mostly refined ennui and whose home Portia enters.
Few writers can conjure up place with so much haunting pulsing atmosphere – whether it’s the soulless harmonies of Windsor Terrace where Anna and Thomas live, Regent’s Park with its icy lake and, later, blooming roses, the seaside town of Seale or the seedy Bayswater hotel which down at the heel Major Brunt calls his home.
Like food, second chances, bringing back to life a deadened heart.I love this book intensely as if it has some kind of gravitational pull or hold on me that reminds me of it during times of feeling what I cannot put name to.
Portia is an intruder on that life with her reminder of the affair Thomas's father had, and reading Portia's diary makes Anna unable to forgive or forget those staring eyes that record everything she does, not in judgement, but matter of fact facts.
Hers is the unthinking sharklife that resented Portia's innocent eye turned on her for she didn't want to think of herself in any other way that glib society life terms.
Portia, the main character, is a sixteen year old orphan who has lived most of her life in hotels on the continent due to the ignominious nature of her parent's relationship which begins as an extra-marital affair.
Portia only really connects with other homeless people, principally the caddish Eddie, who might or might not be having an affair with Anna.
I never quite believed Eddie, a handsome twenty three year old who has had a novel published would be attracted to the rather childish sixteen year old Portia.
There she meets a cruel character who wins her heart then tosses her out with the rubbish once she has become too needy.
It doesn't take much to win her heart, however.
But in his defense, he did tell her again and again and again that he was no good.
I hope she finds her place in the world, but something tells me it will be an uphill battle.***Here are some songs for you, PortiaFoo Fighters - Dear Lover - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fKPt3a...The Courteeners - Please Don't - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MSdRDG...Arctic Monkeys - Bigger Boys & Stolen Sweethearts - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_BATj0...Libertines - Can't Stand Me Now - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BEDtVF...
You can read a story for what happens, OR you can read for quite simply the enjoyment of the words, how an author has drawn emotions and scenes and behavior.
I don’t have the time to do that.” About Eddie, she comments “…trains can wait while some people talk.” This is spoken with sarcasm.Anna says, “We are home, Thomas.
About Portia, Anna says, “Well, heaven help her.
The characters are real people, each unique and different.
One reads this book for character portrayal.Portia falls in love with Eddie.
It is about a sixteen-year-old orphan, Portia Quayne, who moves to London to live with her half-brother Thomas and falls in love with Eddie, a friend of her sister-in-law.
At the beginning of the novel, Portia moves in with Anna and Thomas Quayne after her mother dies.
Irene and Portia continued to live in this fashion until, when Portia was 16, Irene died.
Portia was sent to live with Thomas and Anna after Irene's death.
The plan is that she is to stay with them for one year at which time Portia will leave and move in with Irene's sister (Portia's aunt).
Elizabeth Bowen observes Portia with a woman's cool, discerning eye.This book demonstrates how a predatory man will tell you, and tell you, and tell you that he's predatory...and how a lonely, young girl will refuse to see it.
You listen quietly, or laugh low, as shadows play on the drawing room walls…"This dread had haunted her tardy sleep, and sucked at her when she woke like the waves sucking the shingle of the terribly quiet morning air.""She enjoyed being in the streets--unguarded smiles from strangers, the permitted frown of someone walking alone, lovers' looks, as though they had solved something, and the unsolitary air with which the old or the wretched seemed to carry sorrow made her feel people that at least knew each other, if they did not yet know her, if she did not yet know them.
the manipulation involved is frustrating for the reader because we sit and watch it happening and are powerless to cry out as we would like, powerless to set her free from the endless sadness.Towards the end of the novel, when hopes might have begun to appear the two people who might offer her help and a clearer path through the undergrowth and out into some sort of freedom, the only two characters who are sympathetic, are shown to be caught up with their own misery or at least recognition of their own inadequacies.
Portia, 16 year old orphan, moves to stay with her adult half-brother and his wife. She's on the cusp of adulthood, but very naïve. Almost everyone is cold and detached. Mostly written as a novel, but with sections of diary and several letters - a contrast that feels a little odd.
"However much of a monster you may be," says Thomas to monstrous Anna, "I feel more natural with you then I feel with more natural people - if there are such things." They're joined by their hanger-on Eddie, who is also a sociopath.
Is my life really so ghastly and so extraordinary?" Thomas again: "What proof have you that much nicer people do really exist?" Everyone despises Portia, who has this awful tendency to be nice.No one knows anything.
Portia herself is a bit of a drip, but the sociopaths are terrific: Anna in particular is a complicated bag of awful, a sort of bloodless Lady Macbeth.
Poor Portia. Poor everyone.In real life I'm rarely this sympathetic to horrible people. Maybe I should be.
A beautifully written book from another time and place!It was a difficult transition for me from contemporary fiction back to this slower & subtler style where so much is written but very little actually happens.
It required me to read a lot between the lines.Portia, a 16 year old orphan, moves to London to live with her half brother and sister-in-law resulting in emotional upheaval (repressed as it may be) for all.
I especially enjoyed the relationship between Portia and her sister-in-law Anna which showed Elizabeth Bowen's wicked sense of humor.
My favorite line from Anna is " Well, thank you for listening: you have been an angel.
[4.5] The Death of the Heart struck a chord in me. The novel, set in 1930s London, is about a 16 year old orphan, sent to live in a loveless household with her older brother and his wife. Bowen writes with sharp insight, compassion and wit about Portia's struggle to find her place. All of the characters, even the minor ones, are so incredibly well drawn and so real they could walk off the page. This is a subtle, stunning novel - the action is all in the heart.
When I started reading it, it actually felt like a breath of fresh air -- I had been reading Angela Carter, William Gass, transhumanist SF, all of this mordant and grotesquely unreal stuff, and here was a work of plain old psychological realism, with people doing people stuff and thinking people thoughts and a careful author with a minimal, unflashy persona to relate it all.Yet I slowed down around around p.
Much of Bowen's description has the oddly physical, almost medical sound of the following passage:When they came to the crossing, Lilian grabbed Portia's bare arm in a gloved hand: through the kid glove a sedative animal feeling went up Portia's elbow and made the joint untense.
From the back description, I was expecting this to be a major seduction story like, er, well, I can't think of any examples, though they are a dime a dozen.
I don't suppose I can cast the first stone, though; the attractions of girls are mysterious things and there is little I wouldn't do for someone who shows me kindness at a time when I'm feeling sadly at loose ends.Eddie was indeed a Cad (with a capital 'C', yes.) who was in love with the sound of the words coming out of his mouth.
Anna was the antagonist more than anyone.Elizabeth Bowen told the story somewhat indifferently, I thought.
There is the added sorrow of knowing this girl has just lost her mother and is in a strange place that makes some of their actions seem excessively cruel and unfeeling.Portia’s encounters with life living in hotels with her mother, Irene; living in London with Thomas and Anna, and living for the spring at the beach in Searle with Anna’s former governess, give her an overview of different classes and strata and seem to indicate to the reader that love is fairly non-existent.
If you like a book that makes you puzzle over life, this one will.
Actually, I don't think Portia is "on to her" at all; I think she's too naive.
But Anna doesn't like herself and she sees in Portia all that she could have been.
Poor Portia is just trying to figure out her place in the world and Anna makes her her target.
And she's certainly jealous of Portia's relationship with her "boy toy," Eddie.
You would hope that an evil woman like Anna would get comeuppance in the end but it's unclear to me what happens.
Instead Portia pays with heartbreak and uncertainty about her future.
De vez em quando, vou às "catacumbas" procurar livros que há anos esperam para serem lidos.
Quando ficavam órfãs antes de casarem - porque uma menina de família não podia viver sozinha - tinham de ir viver com outros familiares, que nem sempre as aceitavam bem.
Esta é a história de Portia que, com a morte dos pais, é "deixada em testamento" ao irmão e à cunhada.
A vida na alta-roda e as pessoas que conhece, desencantam-na e desiludem-na, tornando-se uma jovem triste e solitária.
It now becomes apparent why Portia must be so utterly senseless: she is a void canvass in order to enable and channel the unfolding of social layers.
Portia is the catalyst for the storm of unabatement when a crossover crystallises between the British caste system, testing the grounds of moral, social, economic and cultural franchises in a collision course for advent in the twentieth century.And ultimately this is the raisonn d’etre of the novel: a cacophony of class voice seeking recontextualizing.
Portia, sixteen-years old when we meet her, is planning to spend a year with her step-brother and his wife in England.
She has recently lost her mother and father to illness, and one of the provisions of the will was that she spend time with Thomas Quayne and his wife Anna.
Thomas and Portia share the same father, but Portia’s mother was one of her father’s flings.
When she spends her year with Thomas and Anna, she is exposed to a whole new set of people; ones who didn’t always mean what they said.
The Quaynes have a tough call to make, that is way out of their compass, made doubly difficult as, the news that she isn’t in the house, comes, annoyingly, as they are enjoying pre-prandial drinks before dinner is served :‘Goodness,’ Anna said tartly, ‘it’s not such a crisis yet.
Such things could only happen to one whose easy-going life style has laid one open to accepting things, unquestioningly, come what may.Major Brutt telephones the Quaynes to seek their assistance, and help resolve this impasse, and they in turn, look at each other, non-plussed, without an ounce of compassion or understanding for poor misguided Portia simply don’t know how to respond.‘You say she’ll come home if we do the right thing.....
As Yardley points out, the author believed that innocence must “be vanquished by experience.”I would just add an observation about the communication styles displayed in this coming-of-age novel set in British upper and middle-class society prior to World War II.
The adults, in particular, fail to communicate directly and honestly until a crisis develops at the very end.
What we witness until the end is an elaborate charade.The only characters who speak their mind are two young people: Daphne, who is loud and outspoken to the point of rudeness, and the sensitive sixteen-year-old protagonist Portia, who gradually learns to speak up.
There are some minor events, diaries read, summers at the sea, starts and ends to relationships, but even in these strands, there's never any one decisive moment of resolution or something that takes your breath away.
Thomas seems almost resigned to the sameness while Anna responds by gossiping, backbiting, and badmouthing pretty much every character in the story.
Portia just kind of floats through the story in a kind of innocent haze, refusing to believe that the people who don't hate her, think she's a fool.
Overall this is a novel of bad people doing bad things to each other.
Having been brought up in a similar resort town myself, I found Bowen's description of the wind-battered setting and the cheerfully rowdy life of the young people whom Portia meets there one of the most vivid sections of this excellently-observed book.
While the apparently free-and-easy quality of this middle-class setting can be seen to have its own limitations and proprieties, it sends Portia back to town with an unbearable sense of the shallow frigidity of her life with Thomas and Anna.
When Anna and Thomas go abroad, they send Portia to the seaside to stay with Anna's former governess and Eddie follows, leading to a Weekend of Epic Disillusionment (and 400 pages of me going Yaaaaaaay!)As titles go, The Death of the Heart is a little obvious and melodramatic for me, but I will forgive it, because Bowen kills all her hearts so beautifully.
Anna should be the most sympathetic to Portia's crush on Eddie, having gone through a similar love affair fifteen or so years earlier, and yet she sees it all and doesn't intervene.
A book about a 16 year old girl that should be read by adults.
Portia Quayne, newly orphaned and very innocent, goes to live with her stolid half-brother and his effortlessly, subtly malicious wife in 1930s London.
She falls in love with a 23 year old; keeps a diary; goes to stay with the wife's former governess and her two grown children at the seaside.
She was close friends with H.G. Wells, Virginia Woolf, and T.S. Eliot, and Time magazine's 1939 review of the book asserted that Bowen had a more promising future than Woolf or Willa Cather.
I loved this book, a young girls coming of age.Portia comes to live with her step brother and wife in London.There she meets the cad Eddie, young and naive.She finds out about love and how hearts are broken .The best of hers so far.Beautifully written with an eye for detail of human emotions.
If you have travelled into the season of late summer, early fall of your life, you may see yourself in aspects of characters and in the deeply emotional process Portia, the 16 year old, finds herself going through.
Speaking of seasons, the book does play on this and uses it to parallel Portia’s disillusionment with the world and the adults in it.
The inner world of Portia?
Being 16 her idealized view of people will lead her to feelings of isolation and betrayal.
Even when in the midst of a room of people.
This book is one to read and then think about.
3* The Heat of the Day3* The Last September4* Eva Trout3* The Demon Lover3* The House in Paris3.5* The Death of the HeartTR To the NorthTR A World of Love
