https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/979765.Swallowdale
I liked it better than ever.Taking place in the summer immediately following the first book, it deals with two calamities that strike separate blows to the holiday adventure plans of the Swallows and their allies the Amazons.
The Swallows know the place better and are in turn known and liked, and consequently are more involved in the texture of the lives of the people around them, even as they continue with their independent adventuring, and are always "lurking" and hiding from the natives.
More 1930's kids camping/sailing/pirating adventures, this time with a shipwreck! And a cave! And a daring escape!I think one of the things that's most charming about these books is that they're so detailed. It's not just, 'the Swallows made camp,' it's a five-page explanation of how their tents work, and how they built a fire, and how they made a broom from brush. The educational value is faded with time, but the charm hasn't.
I liked this one a little better than the first, perhaps because I have invested in the characters. My son is determined to get a sailboat now. This series and our recent sailing class have really sparked a passion for him.
Ransome does it effortlessly.)The books also have a wonderful approach to encouraging the imaginative life of children.
The second child, Susan, is characterized as the "first mate" of the ship, and is always seen practicing for her adult role as wife and mother.But the younger sister is still given rein to play at the adventurer, so the novels aren't overtly sexist, and quite frankly, I can see how modeling different adult roles in play is actually a good representation of how children act.Overall, these books are charming.
I recommend, nay encourage, them for all children of an age able to read them.
There are also comments that may need interpreting by Americans since these are very British upper class families.
Although I was aware of the upper class family part more as an adult than as a child.
They make the best of it and camp on land and have adventures with the Amazons in spite of the Great Aunt.
What happens on these adventures and what did the Swallows discover that made a huge difference in their fun is just what you will have to read to find out.
After holing their boat Swallow, the family camp on the moor in a valley above the lakeside woods whilst it's repaired.The Blackets, part time female pirates due to the arrival of an Aunt at their home on whom attendance must be danced upon, join them as and when they can.It's clear that in a way Ransome was particularly keen on the Titty character.
In fact it could be said that generally Ransome wrote his female characters better than the male.
I think this is definitely one of my favourites from the collection!!I loved the adventures and outdoor challenges. But also the references to hills and lakes of the Lake District which I knew and recognized from family walks. Perhaps more significantly I really envied the Walkers and "Red caps" freedom to explore independently, without their families. It seems that parents were much more liberal with allowing their children to be independent in this period.
Again a book in a delicate condition with a 50p price tag. Oh so much value in a book with memories of previous readings and pleasure in the rereading and remembering forgotten pleasures.This is why books should always be given as presents. Forget lego, xbox , cars, dolls. This is what remains with me and brings me undimmed delight.
Arthur Ransome's tales of British children out sailing in the Lake counties are just wonderful. Funny, quaint, perfect adventures, with the right amount of characterization, realism, whimsy, and imagination. I have re-read all of these as an adult, and they hold up to time; I can't wait to read them to my son when he's older.
No sophomore slump for Ransome. Book Two in the series is full of pitch and moment -- great aunts, the top of the world, wounded sailors and Long John Silver. Ransome keeps it humming along right up to the end, and the world he creates is both of the Lake District in the 1930s and full of timeless wonder about childhood, responsibility, and make believe as if your life depended on it.
Charming, exciting, well written, and a wonderful addition to the series. Swallowdale presents a rollickingly good adventure, with a host of realistic characters; it is sure to delight both children and adults like.
A shame my children are not as hooked on this series as I used to be: yes, the pace is much slower than what they are used to nowadays in books and films, but surely the dream of exploration, adventure and minimal grown-up interference stays the same!
To some, Arthur Ransome's Swallowdale is the epitome of a simpler time.
However, I found the book to be idyllic and unrealistic.
The simpleminded, childish characters make the novel feel like Family Circus, a relic of long gone age.
The book has no real plot and completely lacks character development.
When the children get into a problem, they are miraculously bailed out each time by some benevolent adult on the island.
No problem ever feels real or important in any way.
Swallowdale simply forces its readers to follow along with an unrealistic story of four children living in a world infinitely far from our own.
F - LD Placeholder
I really enjoyed this book and the story is lovely although it can be a challenging at points due to all the funny language and Ship terms.
There's a shipwreck in this one which causes the kids' activities to be on land where they continue their camping, hiking and exploring adventures.
If so, it's likely due to the excessive media, toys, and organized/supervised activities that are constantly available and kids probably don't have the time or motivation to look inward as much.
The Great Aunt who represents old fashioned parenting is funny; constantly criticizing the children's upbringing compared to her day--just like we do.
Evidently, you need to read Peter Duck, #3 in the series, before this book to know, since it is actually #2 chronologically*.
Read aloud to the kids.
I liked this book, but Swallows and Amazons is better. It makes me want to live in the Lake District and be an intrepid explorer/kid.
Another in my favorite book series from my 5th/6th grade years.
Ransome takes a story of the adventures of a group of children (and their affiliated adults) in on a lake and into the hills of England during summer break, real-life childhood adventuring spiced with a generous dose of imagination, and gives the gentle and lovely story as much momentum as a good mystery or thriller.
Classified as juvenile fiction, but it's one of those books that's fun for anyone who likes this sort of thing, and at 440 pages is rather long for juveniles unless they love reading as I did when I first read the Ransome series.
I found and read the Swallows and Amazons series in my early 20s. I am only sorry I did not find them earlier. Stories of the family's summer adventures are beautifully written, and encourage responsible and creative living. Self reliance, intelligent reasoning skills, and strong imagination with these children provide an excellent backdrop for this series of books, as well as strong roll-models for any youngsters reading them.
If you are looking for an easy yet intriguing read, then you've found them here. The whole series contain stories about four children and their imaginative travels...kind of like the chronicles of narnia but slightly more down to earth, and lots of fun. They made me laugh a lot, and helped me to see life a little bit more brightly.
I wish my summer vacations could be like this: camping in a hidden valley, using a secret cave as a larder, trekking overland to climb a mountain (not a huge mountain, a big hill maybe), sailing and rowing all over an enormous lake. And at such a young age--the youngest isn't more than eight years old. In all, this makes for some good summer reading.
Yeah, great!
I think this si a great book
Upon re-reading, number two in Arthur Ransome's classic series is even better than the first.
I had no idea there were more books following Swallows and Amazons until I found a shelf full of them in a Children's bookshop!
Swallowdale picks up the summer after Swallows and Amazons, although a Christmas holiday is referred to which the reader has possibly not been party to.
Its a shame that such holidays are utterly out-dated now, as practically no parent would be comfortable letting their children go off sailing and camping alone for weeks, or could do so without being taken to court for neglect or child abuse, and the children put into care.
I only stuck with it because I'm so looking forward to much of the rest of the series (from memory, Winter Holiday & We Didn't Mean to go To Sea were my favourites along with the stupendously outstanding Swallows & Amazons.To be fair, it picks up quite a lot in the final third, when the pirates have been released from captivity and our intrepid explorers climb Kanchenjunga.
But, to be honest, the only reason to read it is if you are doing the series and want to do it properly!
The Swallows and Amazons are partly grounded during this holiday, but overland adventures become just as entertaining as their times sailing the lake. The pressure from a visiting aunt to be "ladylike" and "on time for supper" goes completely against the grain of the Amazons' summer lifestyle, and rebellion simply has to happen. This book is a mental vacation to the lakes district of the 1930's, I only hope that the British Land Trust has kept much of it the same because I do aim to visit there some day!
One of my favorite highlights from this gentle adventure is when the youngest of the combined Swallows and Amazons crew finds the hidden note and coin in the mountaintop cairn built by their parents and uncle 30 years prior.
There were times when I just wanted to get through sections of the book, but I rather enjoyed the simple capers of the Swallows and Amazons and the homage to truly care-free adventuring during a summer vacation.
If time were of no object, it would be fun enough to read the other 9 adventures of the Swallows and Amazons, but I'll leave it at one for now.
Written in 1931, Arthur Ransome creates the idyllic summer vacation for 4 adventurous brothers and sisters in the English countryside. This is a time when children are allowed to roam the countryside, sail the lake, and discover new terrains without any worries. It is a pleasure to read a children's novel that focuses on life's simple everyday joys. This is in marked contrast to so many of the children's novel of today that tend to focus on a world full of gloom and doom. This was a refreshing read.
