https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85434.The_Currents_of_Space
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1997 میلادیعنوان: سیاره محکوم به نابودی؛ نویسنده: آیزاک آسیموف؛ مترجم: هوشنگ غیاثی نژاد؛ تهران، پاسارگاد؛ 1373؛ در 297 ص؛ شابک: 9646078044؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 مبه یاد میآورم روانشاد دکتر هشترودی روزی از مقوله ی پیدایش و تکوین منظومه شمسی سخن میگفتند: دانشجوئی پرسید: استاد سبب این که در میان سیارگان نه گانه منظومه شمسی تنها زمین است که افتخار پروراندن جانداران را به خود اختصاص داده، و زندگی را تا آنجا که ما میشناسیم در مهد خود پرورانده، چیست؟ استاد پس از شرح مبسوطی از شرایط پیدایش و نشو و نمای موجودات زنده فرمودند: دانشمندان علوم فضایی اعتقاد دارند که زندگی از سایر سیاره ها به زمین منتقل شده است، بخصوص از مریخ، پایان نقل.
The Currents of Space is technically in the middle of the Galactic Empire series, which is technically connected to Asimov's Foundation series.
I say technically because The Currents of Space has virtually nothing to do with the previous Galactic Empire book, The Stars, Like Dust, and doesn't seem to have much, if anything, to do with the robot books that were set even earlier.
It's the setting, and how Asimov shows a colonial, inherently racist society in a way that would have been uncomfortably familiar to the readers of 1952 (and, sadly, later) while still ringing true as a far-future society.
So he's lost his memory, but he's sure there's some terribly important thing he knew that he just has to tell people.
It's been done so many times that I'm sure you lost count years ago.
The aforementioned black hats are close behind him, he's in this deserted park, and he runs into this guy.
And then someone says, remember the guy you killed in the park when you were on the run?Um, yes, he says uneasily.Well, they continue, he was on his way to meet his wife.
Nihayet çevirisi bitti.Hem çevirirken hem de okurken Toz Gibi Yıldızlar'dan çok daha fazla keyif aldım.
Böylece Galaktik İmparatorluk Üçlemesi ile Vakıf arasındaki bağlantıyı da daha açık bir şekilde görüyoruz.Kitap bir bilimkurgudan ziyade başarılı bir dedektiflik romanı havasında gelişiyor.
Ama içerisinde kirt, Yukarı Kent, Aşağı Kent, ileti-tüpü, trimensik personifikasyon ekranı gibi bir sürü ilginç Asimov icadı var.
Aynı şekilde nöronik kamçı, kitap-film, viziekran gibi Vakıf serisinden aşina olduğumuz şeyleri burada da görüyoruz.
Asimov'un görüntülü konferansları taa o zamandan ön görmesi de dikkatlerden kaçmıyor elbette.Gizem unsurunu sonuna kadar koruması ve olayları üç-dört farklı karakterin gözünden anlatması aldığınız keyfi bir güzel arttırıyor.Şimdi sıra üçüncü ve son kitapta.
Asimov, an absolute science fiction great, is genius in his ability to remain timely with The Currents of Space, nearly 60 years after it was published.
If my ten year old could handle the political stuff, I'd give it to her to read too.The Currents of Space was published in 1952.
The Sarks, a ruling class that originates from the planet of Sark and has colonized Florina, benefits most from the production of kyrt.
While an interesting read, I think that this book would have been even better as a unique fictional entre into the world of politics and issues of class and race.
The Currents of Space is a fast paced "lesser novel" by Isaac Asimov I found engaging and hard to put down.Part 2 of 3 of his Galactic Empire Series, it does not have to be read with the others, as I understood each and every facet of the book and did not feel at anytime that I was missing something from the storyline, characters, or worlds involved. Our main character, a man we know only as Rik, a Spatio Analyst - one who measures the matter of space, suns/stars and planets, and the outcome al
Our main character, a man we know only as Rik, a Spatio Analyst - one who measures the matter of space, suns/stars and planets, and the outcome all chemical compounds have on eachother - is zapped by a psycho-probe that takes away nearly all of his memory right after he imparts knowledge of planetary, and thus galaxial, disastrous portent, to who he believes is the highest authority of the world in question, Florina.
The man gets swiftly rewarded with a hefty dose of brain-washing and abduction.
And amidst all this chaos no one knows what Florinia's doom actually consists of, nor who Rik's attackers actually are.I admit that I absolutely LOVED the resolution of things.
The reason for the doom was sufficiently dramatic, the identity of the bad guy was not very obvious, and also the explanation for the botched up brain-washing was a very good one.However all the above makes up about 10% of the book, and it's found in the conclusion of things.
I believe Asimov, based on works I've read so far, really wished to be a mystery author but loves science so much that he can't help but write in this genre.The device of a planet having a unique production of a universally desired substance, in this case a substance known as "kyrt" which is a precious cellulose based textile fabric that has a gold-like status, is a great vehicle for the basis of a novel.
I must read more novels by "the Good Doctor" especially those of the "Galactic Empire series" rather than concentrating on his short story work, of which I consider him a master.
The reader meets "Rik" (Florinian for "moron"), a Spatio-analyst from the radioactive pesthole known as Earth, who is "psycho-probed" in the book's opening pages, with the result that his memories are completely erased, for reasons unknown; Valona March, the Florinian farm girl who takes care of Rik; Myrlyn Terens, the Townman (read: Mayor) of Rik's village, who attempts to help those other two when Rik's memories begin to return; the Squire of Fife, leader of Sark's largest continent, the greatest of the five Great Squires, and the holder of the most extensive kyrt fields on Florina; his daughter, Samia of Fife, an aspiring author who gets involved in the various intrigues; Ludigan Abel, the aged Trantorian ambassador to Sark; and Dr. Selim Junz, another Spatio-analyst, who has been searching for Rik for over a year, after first hearing the young Earthman's broadcast from space, warning of an imminent catastrophe about to strike Florina and the galaxy as a whole.
This is one of the early Asimov novels, when his Galactic Empire was just beginning.
A man has lost his memory because of psychoprobing (some kind extremely invasive and destructive futuristic procedure done on the human brain) by the powers that be.
is the question that he, and a lot of other people, try to answer.
The answer leads to an unwelcome scientific fact that the authorities want to conceal so that they can continue their money-making activities, even while the planet goes to hell (ring a bell?).A very fast-moving story with a truly workable scientific premise and believable and sympathetic characters (usually a rarity in an Asimov novel).
So the story turns out to be a combination of planetary adventure and morality tale; Florinia must be saved in more ways than one.The plot was well written and brought out the motives and personalities of Florinians, Sarkites, and Trantorians, none of whom are wholly good or wholly evil.
Asimov didn't treat his women as badly as Heinlein: he just treated them as woman-shaped plot devices.)If you like good old-fashioned intelligent space opera in a perfectly self-contained story (The Currents of Space is supposedly part of a trilogy and linked to Asimov's Foundation series, but it stands alone just fine), it is definitely worth reading.
El primer libro publicado de Asimov fue “Un guijarro en el cielo“, ultimo libro de la trilogía, la cual es la saga intermedia ente Robots y Fundación.Esto hace que no tengamos una “saga” como estamos acostumbrados a leer, donde la correlación de las historias es esencial para el entendimiento del conjunto.
Incluso, sin caer en spoilers, el desenlace de esta novela esta escenificado de la misma manera que el desenlace de “Los Robots del Amanecer“, historia publicada 31 años después.Tengamos en cuenta que estamos frente a las primeras historias de Asimov, por lo tanto, la historia se desarrolla en un esquema muy rígido que pareciera guiar esas primeras historias.Hay algunos puntos fuertes en la trama.
I subsequently learned that a great deal of Asimov's books took place along a single continuum including the robot series, the Galactic Empire series, and finally the Foundation series.
The only exceptions (at least as far as this book is concerned) are the light-skinned Kyrt-growers and another character named Dr. Junz who comes from a world named Libair populated by dark-skinned people who remember a time when humanity was split along racial lines.
(Libair is a clear reference to Liberia, the African nation settled by freed slaves.) I think Asimov's message would not play with many in the social justice movement today because a world where light-skinned people are oppressed smacks of reverse-discrimination, but that clearly wasn't his point.
Fenomenalna knjiga, prepuna snaznih i dobro osmisljenih karaktera. Radnja je izuzetno zanimljiva, a ambijent u kome se sve desava je perfektna mesavina fantastike i realno zamislivog sveta. Definitivno knjiga u kojoj sam najvise uzivao u ovom serijalu (Roboti, Carstvo, Zaduzbina) do sada. Ali tek sam na polovini ovog grandioznog Asimovljevog opusa i jedva cekam ostale nastavke!
I enjoyed this immensely.This is one of Asimov’s earliest novels, written in 1952, and therefore follows many of tropes of the “Golden Age of Science Fiction.” There is quite a bit of science included (as much science fiction of the Golden Age seemed to want to prove it was based in science and/or wanted to educate the reader – love that!) but not in a way that is daunting or boring.
I don't think any of Asimov's Galactic Empire Novels could be said to be essential reading when reading books in the Foundation Universe but if one was to only read one of them I think this should be it.
It was the last of the three to be written and, in my opinion, Asimov was more developed as a writer.Like the others, this novel stands alone really and does not require any prior reading in order to enjoy.
Sark's control of the people of Florina (and hence Kirt) allows Sark to punch well above its weight and Trantor dare not simply try to dominate using force.
The Currents of Space has the usual Asimov problems of flat characters and a load of plot twists that are either obvious or not properly set up (that is, twists of the form person x was an enemy agent the whole time!).
Asimov usually gets a pass for this, since science fiction, is after all, about ideas.
The tepid discussion about race and class falls well short a real point, and the whole currents of space thing (which I think is outdated science anyway) is only relevant in a massive infodump halfway through the last chapter, and creates a problem that is solved offscreen.
Hard science fiction, with a lot of politics.
Ending would have been predictable in the days when I was binge reading Asimov.
The main importance of this book book is that it is set in the long gap between the time of the spacers and emergence of the Foundation - the time during which the Gallactic empire is being set up.
It is not about the main players in setting up of the gallactic empire though.
It is more a side story while the gallactic empire is forming.
While it is a general pacy story that gives an enjoyable experience, it is not a must read.
The Currents Of Space by Isaac Asimov is marketed as the second book of the Galactic Empire series but that is misleading.
It can be read as a stand alone book and you will never know it is supposedly part of a series.
I am old enough that Isaac Asimov was alive and writing when I was a young man.
I was never a big fan of his writings.
If you are a fan of Isaac Asimov then by all means read this book, but if you aren't don't waste your time.
First published on Forest Azuaron.Depending on your point of view, The Currents of Space is either the last, second, or first book in the Galactic Empire trilogy: it was published last, but the depicted events happen before Pebble in the Sky and after The Stars, Like Dust, but is recommended as the first to read by Asimov himself.
Personally, I find I can't read things out of in-universe chronological order, so The Currents of Space is my second foray into The Galactic Empire, following The Stars, Like Dust.While I found The Stars, Like Dust to be merely good, The Currents of Space is now my favorite Asimov book.Let's talk about the "main character has amnesia" plot, and how well Asimov side-stepped what makes that so clichéd anymore.
I've been a fan of the Foundation books for decades, but I had never read the Galactic Empire novels until I picked up The Stars, Like Dust last year.
Technically it's a trilogy, but they are essentially stand alone novels that are set in the same universe, which is also the same universe as the Foundation novels and (I think) the Robot novels as well.Like The Stars, Like Dust, this one has a fun plot and plenty of political intrigue.
Like the other galactic novels, this one might make us wonder about the ways political power tends to accumulate and disperse.
I was expecting a novel that felt dated but what I read was captivating, well-written, and intriguing.
The novel is set in the planet of Florina, whose people are treated like slaves to the planet of Sark, who control the planet and all of its inhabitants.
What follows this is a tug of war between the leader of Sark, it’s chief rival, Trantor, and a man who wants to remove the Sarkites from controlling Florina.I was pleasantly surprised at the quality of the novel.
I think a better ending could have really sealed what was an overall high quality novel.
خوندن این کتاب خیلی حال داد، بیشتر به این دلیل که چون کتابخونهٔ دانشگاه بیشتر از دو تا کتاب امانت نميداد و من سه تای این مجموعه رو برای عید میخواستم، مجبور شدم در عرض دو روز کل کتاب رو تموم کنم تا بتونم در آخرین ساعت باز بودن کتابخونه در سال ۱۳۹۴، این کتاب رو تحویل بدم و «قلوهسنگی در آسمان» رو بگیرم D:جدای از این قضیه، داستان خیلی خوب بود و سیّارهٔ فلورینا، من رو یاد ایران خودمون میانداخت. حالا توی این داستان، سارکیها بهترینهای جوانان این سیّاره رو میبردن تا براشون کار کنه و بهشون اجازهٔ ازدواج

Strano a dirsi, qui manca una componente fondamentale che ho sempre riscontrato in tutti gli altri lavori di Asimov, anche in quelli che mi hanno delusa: l'elemento sorpresa.
Per essere più precisi, un colpo di scena finale, per chiamarlo così, c'è, il problema è che si intuiva facilmente quale fosse già a pagina 100.
Ho sperato fino all'ultima pagina che le cose si ribaltassero, che le mie previsioni fossero sbagliate, che l'imprevedibile Isaac mettesse in campo anche qui almeno qualche briciola della sua proverbiale imprevedibilità.
E invece, niente da fare.
Speriamo che il prossimo libro del ciclo mi faccia tornare l'entusiasmo.
Както винаги Азимов е на ниво. Действието минава през обичайните 5-6 обрата, след което ти обмисляш, пресмяташ, правиш схеми за да разбереш кой е виновен, а то се оказва, че отговора е пред очите ти. За мое съжаление политиката и междупланетарните отношения са водеща тема, в която е прибавено и лек крими елемент, точно обратното на романите за Роботите - кримки с лек политически елемент.
This is traditional science fiction. The story is of interplanetary political intrigue with a bit of crime drama mixed in. It is told in Asimov's plain straightforward style. The plot is fairly complex, with a twist or two. This is classified as part of a series, The Galactic Empire. I've read two of the three and each of them stand alone.
I can't rate this... I want to rate it low because the message of green and class distinction was incredibly blunt. At the same time, this was written in the 50s, so I feel like that should make it more acceptable. I don't know.
Loved this book.Hard to believe it was written decades ago as it holds up on so many levels.I was lost on several occasions but the narration brought me back up to speed quickly without being overly repetitive.It reminded me that Asimov is truly one of favorite authors.
I liked it; however, it did not wow me.I can't help but wonder if Rik is the inspiration for  Rick and Morty .
