https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175131.Dynamics_of_Faith
و أن تتمسك به و إن كان يهدد حياتك الإجتماعية و الإقتصادية فالإيمان حرية ، إختيارك لما تؤمن به حرية ، تنتهي حريتك حين يبدأ همّك الأقصى في التأثير على حياتك حسب ما يتطلبه الأمر يفصل المؤلف بين الفعل و الإيمان ، فالإيمان مُدرك ، و إيمانك لا يعني عدم وعيك بالقيم الأخلافية فبالتالي أي تصرف يبدر منك لا يكون دافعه الإيمان بشكل مباشر ؛ فالإيمان لا يعني غيابك عن الوعي أو تحكم فكرة الإيمان منفردة بما تفعل ، و إن كانت سببًا في فعلك ؛ فالإيمان ليس السبب الوحيد.
Tillich argues that the belief in god is not comparable to some empirical statement that we have no evidence for.
He argues that the belief in a god is needed for the integration of the personality.
Tillich's argument is that these false gods must be exposed and destroyed for the authentic god to come into our lives.
He terms this experience as our finding the "ground of our authentic being" which repairs our broken relationship with god.
That is, the belief that the divinity of Christ repairs our relationship with the one true god and ourselves.I would recommend this book to liberal christians and agnostics.
Much of the book is thought-provoking; in general, his redefinition of faith certainly seems superior to the popular meaning of the word.
I found very interesting his idea that, when one is confronted with the limitations of one's symbols (in other words, when one is confronted with a situation where the symbolism and abstraction one uses to understand the universe are shown to not match with some part of reality), one has only two options: to find new symbols or to simply not interact with that part of the world.
For an evangelical like myself, my assessment of this book depends a great deal on perspective.
If I'm viewing Paul Tillich as a Christian theologian than the book, while still insightful and interesting, is hugely problematic.
Whether or not we can fully see him as part of the liberal tradition, Tillich's theology is far from orthodox.On the other hand, if I choose ti view Tillich not as a Christian theologian but as a general (rather than specifically Christian) philosopher of religion, the book becomes invaluable.
This perspective doesn't eliminate the theological problems I have with Tillich but it does push them into the background.
من أروع الكتب التي قد يقرأها الواحدأظن أن كثيراً من قناعاتي استطاع هذا الكتاب تغييرهاهل أستطيع أن أشك في وجود الله وأنا مرتاح؟هل نستطيع التسامح مع المؤمنين بأديان أخرى؟ كيفما كانت هذه الأديان حتى ولو كانت غير دينية؟ما هو الايمان؟ وكيف نزيل عنه المعاني المشوهة؟كل هذه الأسئلة وغيرهاأعد قراء هذا الكتاب بأن يجدوا لها الجواب
Paul Tillich defines faith as being in a state of ultimate concern or loving something with all our mind, body and spirit Examples of an object of our ultimate concern include money, success, God, and our nation.
Faith goes beyond belief in a story/myth to acceptance of the ultimate concern to which the story symbolically points.
Accepting the story literally destroys its symbolic meaning and makes it unable to point us to the ultimate.
In the symbol of God are the concepts of life, being, sprit, and love.
Faith, as our ultimate concern, integrates all other aspects of our life.
Paul Tillich defined faith as the state of being ultimately concerned.
The dynamics of faith, therefore, are the dynamics of being ultimately concerned.Tillich distinguishes between true faith and idolatrous faith.
The awareness of the holy is awareness of the presence of the divine, namely of the content of our ultimate concern." In contrast, idolatrous faith involves lifting finite realities to the rank of ultimacy.
Examples Tillich provides include success and nationalism.According to Tillich's argument, we cannot hope to find certainty in our faith.
If I focus on the spiritual, the holy, the divine, as my ultimate concern -- then I have faith.

I don't have time at the moment for a review, but this book did some amazing things for me both intellectually and spiritually.
Highly recommended for those who would like some sort of spirituality or faith in their lives, but feel like they don't "fit" due to intellectual or other concerns.
Also recommended to committed believers of a religious tradition who want to deepen or strengthen their faith.
Also recommended to Richard Dawkins, as Tillich proposes a "God" that even an atheist could "believe" in, yet one that doesn't become some sort of "watered-down deism" and instead becomes even more vibrant and meaningful.
While this book is fairly small (around 140 pages), it requires your full attention.
This isn't a light read.
The book starts out with explaining what 'faith' is.
Faith is man's ultimate concern.
He discusses the reasons as to why science can't disprove faith and faith science.
He discusses faith in an organized and systematic fashion.
This is a must read for those who think faith is based purely on emotion.
It's a great read for atheists, agnostics, and those of varying religions.
Will I read it again?
However, I took intense notes while reading it, and will be recommending it to others.
I decided recently that I wanted to understand more about Faith, and what it is beyond dictionary and personal definitions.
A couple of searches and review-readings later, I was directed to this book, which is apparently a classic in the understanding of Faith.
I'm not sure what I've learned, really.
I grasp Tillich's definition of Faith as "ultimate concern," but he is less explicit about what constitutes either ultimacy or concern.The language of the book is academic and stilted, not surprising given the author's German origins.
I found it very heavy going, even with rereadings and referring back a page here, a chapter there.
Existential, deep. A different definition of faith . Difficult to read & u derstand.
كتاب رائع
For these chapters alone, one should read this book.With respect to symbols, Tillich claims that one’s “ultimate concern must be expressed symbolically, because symbolic language alone is able to express the ultimate.” Tillich makes a clear distinction between symbols and signs: while both point beyond themselves to some other content, “signs do not participate in the reality of that to which they point,” whereas symbols do participate in that to which they point (for example, “the flag participates in the power and dignity of the nation for which it stands,” Tillich notes).
A thing that really matters, a worthy ultimate concern, is a thing best kept indeterminate; something my kids could pursue by not eating peas one minute and eating them the next, and by me by insisting on the peas one minute and giving them to the dog the next.Tillich had a term for when you’re stubborn about something which is not an ultimate concern: he called it demonic faith.
Being completely stubborn about keeping something you think really matters will get you in as much trouble as I might have gotten in with the peas.
I will have to read this one again, perhaps even next year.
Notes: Doubt as proof of faith -- "Doubt is overcome not by repression but by courage.
Courage does not deny that there is doubt, but it takes the doubt into itself as an expression of its own finitude and affirms the content of an ultimate concern.
"Only in a community of language can man actualize his faith.""A god disappears, Divinity remains." (Seeking the infinite and ultimate is innate to our condition.)The first time I've interrogated whether it's will to believe or faith that comes first.
Faith, if it takes its symbols literally, becomes idolatrous!
This is an incredible book, and it is so if your "faith" is a traditional religious faith - Protestant, Catholic, Islam - or something else that you are treating the same as another might treat a religious faith.Tillich is clearly and rightly known for his existentialist approach to faith; but, who knows what that means?
This book changes that (though not explicitly.)But, be prepared: It is NOT a light read.
So, don't read this as you go to bed; you'll not be able to take it in as you're fading.And, this is why it only gets 4-stars from me.
Existential -philosophical exploration of faith.
However, I find that he has some particularly important points to make on the concept of faith.
Tillich's discussion of the modern secularism as its own form of faith with its own symbolic language was thought-provoking.
It made me consider political parties as faiths with their own symbolic language.
For instance, abortion access has become almost a symbol of the democratic party, it represents autonomy and self-determination.
And if this is their ultimate concern, what Tillich defines faith as, then it makes sense why that it clashes sharply with the symbols and ultimate concern of the Republican party.
Tillich very neatly criticizes all the ways that modern positivism and neoliberalism have distorted our understanding of faith, and provides a solid foundation for modern people confused about whether modern philosophy, historical criticism, or physics in some way refute the fundamentals of religious practice.
In most people's cases, the tension comes from the demands of creedal beliefs and sacramental rituals, in an insistently personal and individual preference for rational thoughts and evidences.
The “contents” in the life of Faith matters infinitely for the believer, which will follow later discussion.(2) Faith is a personal, centered act which “is manifest in his meaningful language, in his ability to know the true and do the good, in his sense of beauty and justice.
Because faith demands ultimate concern of which the quality of infinity does not settle into a doubtless belief.
Dynamics of Faith is concerned with properly defining and engaging faith.
For him, faith is about being in a state of ultimate concern.
According to Tillich, since every human has an object/disposition (perhaps “disposition” is a more appropriate word than “object” in his context) of ultimate concern, then all persons have a degree of faith.
The pursuit of our ultimate concern reflects our estrangement as finite beings from that which is infinite.
He distinguishes between living faith (ultimate concern) and "traditional attitudes” (substituting that which is ultimate for dogmatism).
I will spend more time exploring this chapter.I don’t accept all of Tillich’s conclusions or jive with some of his definitions.
They are then further shocked to learn that I don't see my political engagement as a life development in spite of but rather because of my life in the church.It took me quite a long time before I could really articulate why that was.
I think that anyone who engaged with this book, no matter their professed religious (or political, or any other) beliefs, would be extremely challenged by it.
That took me 50-60 pages until it hit me like an epiphany, "faith is the state of being ultimately concerned." He says it one way or another many times during the book, but it finally made sense after going through all the layers of what that means when approached that way.Instead of faith being something that you believe, but you have no proof, it is an orientation toward your ultimate concern.
Courage to move forward in spite of the chance that you could ultimately be wrong.Being LDS, Tillich's approach to faith is a bit jarring.
Paul Tillich opens this book with quite a reality check - and one that is as relevant today as it was the day it was written:There is hardly a word in the religious language, both theological and popular, which is subject to more misunderstandings, distortions and questionable definitions than the word “faith.” It belongs to those terms which need healing before they can be used for the healing of men.
And there is as yet no substitute expressing the reality to which the term “faith” points.
Tillich writes:[F]aith, understood as the state of being ultimately concerned, has no language other than symbols.
Without telling you exactly what Tillich thinks about faith (that would spoil the fun, and also be extremely difficult), let me explain what I thought was useful about this book.First, it proposes a coherent and accurate definition of faith.
On the other hand, if you're an atheist leaning towards Christianity, Tillich provides an excellent intellectual justification.His concept of Ultimate Concern, and the integrating aspects of faith convinced me to see that much-used word in a new light.
And I think faith comes away looking better than it does in the hands of zealots and skeptics.
More than a simple "belief in the impossible" or "unseen" Paul Tillich's idea of faith is that it is a part of all people.
In this way faith underlies all action, thought, and decision.
After building up his arguments he lays out some provoking ideas about how faith and one's life are interwoven.
I particularly enjoyed his thoughts on the distinction between scientific truth and faith, how neither can truly satisfy the questions of the other.
Above all I enjoyed the emphasis he places on faith in life.
I like the idea that faith is not belief, but a quality of being human.
Tillich defines faith as the state of being “ultimately concerned” (1).
Thus, it is an existential rather than an intellectual state, a state made manifest by myth and symbol and concerning the whole person in relation to whatever that person considers “ultimate.” Idolatry, then, is counting the wrong thing as ultimate.
Scripture is seen, not as a set text to which we say “yes,” but as the symbolic/mythic relay of the existential quest of the people of faith.
Tillich insists that faith only occurs in community, but is sketchy on the details; indeed, the book is so condensed that he is sketchy on all details.
Tillich argues that faith is the process of being concerned with the ultimate.
Since the ultimate is uncommunicable man needs to use symbols to communicate their ultimate concerns.
He argues (I think) that faith is not necessarily tied to religion or God but instead is focused on man believing in the ultimate.
The ultimate seems to be a kind of hero system (at least from an Ernest Becker perspective) but stretching to more of the essence of what this is attempting to do.
This book also has a nice section on why arguments about faith using other perspectives (science, history, philosophy etc.) are empty arguments with two fields missing one another.
In Dynamics of Faith, Tillich challenges commonly held misconceptions of faith, belief, doubt, symbols, divinity and religion in dense but efficient language that forces the audience to stop and meditate on what is being said.
Unlike many other works of theology/philosophy I have read, I found Dynamics of Faith clear and concise, never once offering an idea or concept that was beyond the grasp of the average individual ( such as yours truly).
If taken seriously, Tillich's views on faith apply to every human being on the planet.
The first Tillich book I've read - not the last - and I will refer to this wonderful short book often.
The idea of an Ultimate Concern as the object of faith is introduced at the beginning of the book with the tenet that there is within us the infinite that is made to connect to the Infintite.
Unlike the book I am currently reading (Kung's On Being a Christian), Tillich does not spend time giving long surveys of types of faith, but covers the types of faith concisely.
