https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3428935-the-warded-man
I learned a lot from this book, because I wrote it myself. My rating may be somewhat biased as a result.
Buddy read with my wonderful friend, CeliseI freaking loved this book!!
Arlen, Leesha, Rojer, Bruna, Ragen, Cob, Leesha's father and Twilight Dancer were my favorite characters.
The book tells the story about 3 people, Arlen, Leesha, & Rojer.
They live in a world where you have to be inside a Warded home or Warded circle etc, before night fall.
This is when the demons rise and if you're not safe, you're pretty much eaten!I can't describe how awesome this world is, besides the getting eaten part.
I hate that because this is one of my new favorite books!
I'd not seen demons done this way and the partitioning of them into the night, combined with the system of wards, really works to create a very interesting dynamic.The wards themselves are not only interesting in the sense of a magic system but also in a meta-sense as they are a marketeer's dream.
Brett gives us a complex world full of interesting people, and the demons act as a constant source of pressure to drive the characters to extremes.
4.5/5 StarsThe Warded Man is a superbly written debut that every fan of character-driven fantasy must read.I started reading this book without knowing anything about it other than the premise.
I honestly don’t know why this word really stood out to me, but every time this word popped up I was like, “oh look, it’s this word again.” I feel like Brett could’ve used another replacement for this word, such as help, aid, assistance, or relief.Overall, The Warded Man, being a debut work and the first book out of five in the Demon Cycle series, is a fantastic debut that every fan of character-driven fantasy should try to read.
Section 2 of the book focuses on the teenage years, roughly speaking, so for Arlen that means his apprenticeship in Miln, Leesha her apprenticeship as a Herb Gatherer and Rojer's own apprenticeship as a Jongleur.
The lavish detail showing in their childhoods and world building is suddenly cut down to bare bones.I think it goes without saying that it is about time that we leave the female rape scene out of fantasy, particularly when it is your only female character.The rest of the book became a chore to finish, as my enjoyment in the world Brett created was spoiled by the metamorphosis of his lead into an invincible superhero.
I've seen this book in my feed for years now, so I finally decided to take the plunge and see what all the fuss was about. And I'm really glad I did because this was a pretty cool story.Ok, in this world there are demons.  Hiss! Not the kind that possesses you and turns you into a minion of Satan, though!The kind that come out at night and eat you!  RAWR! Alright. So basically these demons (called corelings b/c they come from the core of the earth) rise up at night and wander around looking for
So, writing about it, if it's handled well, is something that I think can help shed light on a dark subject.But.To me, this wasn't one of those times that the story gained anything by adding it in there.(view spoiler)[So Leesha gets gang-raped by robbers while on the road with Rojer.
<--she's like 27ish at this pointShe had guarded her 'flower' carefully and was determined to do things 'right' her entire life, even though several times there were women she trusted who told her there was nothing wrong with having sex for pleasure.
The world of The Painted Warded Man (*) is governed by fear. Countless corelings/demons rule the night. Magical wards that keep the demons out also keep the people in. The promise of safety has become their prison.   * Sidenote: By the way, what's up with the name change? Is this book a part of Book Witness Protection Program? Why?  Being caught out in the open at night equals gruesome death. People in this world hide trembling behind their wards at night terrified of what's out there. Fear rule
People in this world hide trembling behind their wards at night terrified of what's out there.
And so enter our three main characters who decide that life is more than just cowering in fear: (A) Arlen, who refuses to live his life in fear and forgoes conventional happiness for what he feels is right - and becomes the titular Painted Warded Man, battling the corelings (**).(B) Leesha - a brave and determined young woman, a skilled healer and herb gatherer who defies all expectations of her male-dominated society.
Yes, they did not have battle wards until Arlen found them.
The Warded Man is an effective, efficiently-written fantasy thriller, one with an ingenious premise: at nightfall, various sorts of grisly 'corelings' rise from the earth to slaughter all living beings.
winner: The Warded Man.Gardens of the Moon vs.
The Warded Man. Gardens is actually fairly terrible when considering the craft of writing.
but it is interesting to note the parallels between Warded Man and The Blade: both first-novels-in-a-series spend their time developing the lives of their three primary players, focusing on how they came to be the way they are, with the primary action to take place in the next novel.
One of the most unique and engrossing novels I have ever read! The Warded Man tells the story of Arlen, Leesha, and Rojer and how their lives end up intersecting. We meet Arlen and Leesha when they are only eleven and Rojer when he is only four. They live in a world ravished by demons every night. Humans are forced to live behind protective wards or die terrible deaths at the hands of these demons. I have to admit it was hard to believe the book was over 900 pages long. The pages seemed to fly
One of the most unique and engrossing novels I have ever read!
The Warded Man tells the story of Arlen, Leesha, and Rojer and how their lives end up intersecting.
He weaves a story that becomes more and more complex as you read it, until finally, at least for me, it almost becomes real.
I couldn't help but feel the fear the characters feel each evening as the sun begins to set and they find themselves rushing to get behind wards to protect themselves from the demons rising as mist from the ground.
I have that awesome feeling that not all is as it seems and there are several more surprises in store) Also, the art of warding was a fascinating craft – I always love feeling like I’m learning a non-real-world skill in a book, whether it be ward creation or dragon riding.Unconventional and slow start aside, there was a touchy incident that happened near the end, the author’s treatment of which put me off a bit.
I’m still going to continue on because the author sold its necessity just enough to suit my objections AND there were too many other things I enjoyed about the book to just up and stop now… but it still bugged me.Overall, I really liked The Warded Man but think it would be very difficult to recommend: “Here, read this.
If all mention of sex and babies was removed, I don't think there would be any other female characters (okay, maybe the old mentor Bruna), and Leesha herself would only be in it for about five pages.
In the hands of a more competent storyteller, I feel like we would have been given this information a little bit at a time, at appropriate intervals.
By the time Arlen becomes The Warded Man, he's like...
It was well-established by your very long back-story that you thought sharing helpful wards (like ones that might, I don't know, KILL demons) was the only moral choice.
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsOne of my favorite things about reading fantasy is the brand new worlds.
For an escapist reader, like myself, shoddy world-building can ruin an otherwise perfectly good book, but above and beyond fantastical, yet believable new worlds, I crave novelty.
Each has an important role to play, each discovers knowledge vital to the struggle against demons, and their individual journeys toward their inevitable meeting are as fantastic as the world in which they live.I loved the world, the story, and the characters, but what pushes THE WARDED MAN into the top tier of books I've read is the pertinence.
I'm easily super excited about this book and have no reservations about flying through the sequels.
The three main characters: Arlen, Leesha, and Rojen, are given delightful treatment in this world, from their childhoods to the heroic adults that they become.Make no mistake, though, this is an origin story, building step by step to create the fabled Warded Man, the man who can step into armies of demons and decimate them all by himself.
For most of this book, no one comes close to having this ability, but that's the main joy in reading origin stories.
At the opening of the book, the only defense people have is to huddle behind magical wards which the demons cannot breach (unless the chalk or whatever is scuffed or something, I don’t know.) Humans cower in their cities or individual farmhouses, and it would be really great if someone learned to, I don’t know, cover their own body with wards, becoming some sort of WARDED MAN, hmm?No one, I should mention, seems to have thought of having failsafe or layered wards, or maintaining warded roads or safehouses for travellers, or whatever else.
The Warded Man (The Painted Man in the UK) is exactly the type of fantasy I love.Goodreads summary:As darkness falls each night, the corelings rise - demons who well up from the ground like hellish steam, taking on fearsome form and substance.
They live in three separate and distinct places and Brett does a great job showing how each part of the world deals with the problem of the corelings.
This dream is only spurred by Arlen's cowardly father who's always taught Arlen to run and hide.I thought Brett did a great job using traditional epic fantasy elements to create his own unique world.
What readers quickly recognize is that Peter Brett’s The Warded Man (Demon Cycle #1) has the feel of a traditional fantasy epic with something different.
Through this dating system, we learn that it has been over 300 years since the return of demons which attack every night.
Against this backdrop, we have the interweaving stories of the three main characters which make up Peter Brett’s The Warded Man (Arlen, Leesha and Rojer).
It feels like their attacks are driven by more than hunger, but we only get hints (near the end) that there might be a real motivation as well as some sort of demon culture.
Before I knew what has happened, this book had sucked me in, chewed me, and spat me out. Broken. I expect nothing less from an epic fantasy.Also in the Demon Cycle: 2. The Desert Spear ★★★☆☆3. The Daylight War ★★☆☆☆4. The Skull Throne ★★☆☆☆5. The Core ★☆☆☆☆ (Actual rating: ZERO stars)
Three survivors of demon attacks spend their younger years learning to fight the corelings in their own ways.
Rojer becomes a Jongleur, a wandering minstrel whose fiddle playing can ward off the demon's attack.
Leesha's fear of opening up to people because of the way her mother treated her and Rojer's insecurities about his missing fingers are likewise well done.While most of the towns depicted were standard fantasy pseudo-Europe, I did enjoy Krasia, Brett's version of the Middle East.
The Warded Man of the title is a very interesting character, so much more three dimensional than most fantasy heroes.
As much as I love this book, I have a few issues with it, I feel like some things were unnecessary because it adds nothing to the plot whatsoever.(view spoiler)[ Like when Leesha was ganged rape after keeping her virginity for 27 years, that added nothing to the story but only made her already bad backstory worse and unrealistic.
Leesha is a herb gatherer, and can cure basically everything, even demon inflicted injuries and fever, A herb gatherer is very important given that demons hunt and eat people at night.Rojer the youngest in the group, only 17 years old, he was 3 when the book started.
I couldn’t even imagine living in a world in which every night, demons take over, and prey on humans.
I wanted someone to step forward and to find a way to prevail against the demons.People have been waiting for the Deliverer to come back to protect them from the demons.
This story might be about demons on the surface, but deep down, the real theme of The Warded Man is the everyday sort of courage.
This story inspires me to fight my own demons in my everyday life.
You can get this book FREE right now from the publisher at this link if you have a US address: freebie A fantastic debut novel by Peter V Brett that feels fresh and original, even a few years after I first read it.This book is one of the best first efforts by any writer I have ever read, a real page-turner. The story is extremely gripping, the characters are easy to like and care for and the worldbuilding is excellent. I never found myself bored or dragging my feet and the ending came far too s
You can get this book FREE right now from the publisher at this link if you have a US address: freebie
A fantastic debut novel by Peter V Brett that feels fresh and original, even a few years after I first read it.This book is one of the best first efforts by any writer I have ever read, a real page-turner.
The story is extremely gripping, the characters are easy to like and care for and the worldbuilding is excellent.
Luckily, I have the other books too so I will jump right into the next one.Highly recommended.
well I get the feeling I'm on my own here given the reviews, but here goes: The warded man/painted man is set in a kind of alternate future where after the age of science, the world has been thrown back into a dark age, where ancient elemental demons known as "Corelings" have once more risen from the earth to feed upon mankind.
The story has three protagonists altho it centres mostly on Alren a young boy who's mother is killed in a demon attack and sets out to seek a way to fight the Corelings.
Brett writes hundreds of pages of mostly directionless village based drama with characters who exist purely to impart back story directly to the reader.
My journey started when the author led me into the world of monsters that rise in the night and attack humans who hide behind wards, fascinating old times with herb-gatherers, jongleurs and messengers, who are the only ones who dare to travel far despite danger to bring messages and goods for exchange.
Also I needed more info on wards and monsters, maybe an additional glance into the world of monsters ((view spoiler)[I mean the scene when Arlen was sucked into Core and dang it, he escaped even without knocking on the door!
It is a good book with interesting worldbuilding, peculiar characters and cool action scenes with monsters.
I read late into the night and ignored all sorts of responsibilities to read The Warded Man.The book focuses on three protagonists Arlen, Leesha, and Rojer.
Leesha and Rojer's stories unfold a bit more slowly, but they are each incredibly important.The world of The Warded Man is one in which demons have stalked the night for hundreds of years.
Man has been hiding so long that the sounds of demons testing their wards each night is as common as the the sounds of crickets and owls are to us.This book is now my favorite book outside of the A Song of Ice and Fire series.
But in this case I liked first book and I have decided to go ahead with this series.A really fascinating world where demons rise when the sun sets.
This book has three main characters Arlen, Leesha, and Rojer.
Second thing that bothered me was how easily they accepted each other.
It would have been a great book for me had the author explained a little more about Arlen's transition from a mere messenger to an excellent fighter and how he carved those intricate wards (view spoiler)[ on his body specially his back and head (hide spoiler)].
One of the few moments when the author tried to do a plot twist [I think], but really failed, because it was too obvious anyway.Another thing that I liked about him though was that he literally ate demon meat.
It's also not cannibalism, as demons were described as kind of like insects in the end of the novel, by Leesha.One thing I didn't like about him was his "sex scene" with Leesha.
I liked his character development, it didn't feel forced.To talk about the world building now.
Yes, compared to other fantasy novels this was not as good, but come on, it was still pretty amazing.
She seemed less of a real person in that whole last section - like as soon as she got on the road with the men.
**ok, some small spoilers - though it's really not a spoiler since it's obvious from the first page**Arlen also became much less interesting as soon as he became the Warded Man. I usually like action scenes, but I got tired of the repetitiveness of them.
*laughs wryly*)I'm glad that this story is mostly a stand alone - or, at least, that enough is tied up that I don't feel like I have to read the next if I don't want to.
I loved this book, but it took a while/couple of tries that I actually finished the book. The thing that I wished there was more of is Arlen training. And I wish there was not as much jump in the timeline, where we don't see Arlen, and that Arlen was the only character that we saw, him coming of age, and training. That would be more traditional. So that the other two main point of view characters of Leesha and Rojer were unneeded in my opinion.
I liked this unique twist on things and the people in the story have to ward their houses to keep the corelings out - or use portable ward circles.
(view spoiler)[Leesha is waiting for the right man to give her "flower" to (i.e. her virginity) but when she's traveling back to her home town, she and her companion, Rojer are attacked by thugs and she's ganged raped - this scene doesn't happen on the page - thank goodness - but the story picks up after this happens.
Then right after the attack, she meets up with the Warded Man and a few days later she wants to have sex with him??
I would recommend this for people looking for something that is intriguing, easy to get into but also a tad bit complex.Plot Set in fictional world where demons(corelings) prey on humans at night, people depend on their precious wards to keep the demons out of their homes and out of harm, which they've found out the hard way doesn't always work out as expected.
I must say it is a unique plot indeed, with the demons being a bit elemental.CharactersI loved all the major characters(I heard a rumour of a certain female being annoying in the remaining books).
