https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/407429.The_Stinky_Cheese_Man_and_Other_Fairly_Stupid_Tales
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to The Stinky Cheese Man and Other Fairly Stupid Tales, a re-appropriation of classic fairy tales, published in 1992 by Jon Scieszka. What a hilarious book! Sometimes the classics need a little refresher, and when you add a dose if stupid and fun humor, how can you go wrong? The author and the artist have created a superb work for modern times, where children can easily do a read and compare between the versions of centuries ago and the modern re-telling that stan
Sometimes the classics need a little refresher, and when you add a dose if stupid and fun humor, how can you go wrong?
The author and the artist have created a superb work for modern times, where children can easily do a read and compare between the versions of centuries ago and the modern re-telling that stand alongside.
It's one of those books where you just need to relax and enjoy it -- don't get caught up in the craziness of what the author's done or said.
Think of it as a way to compare old and new...
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
They keep making postmodernism accessible to younger and younger age groups. This is a typical postmodern take on the fairy-story genre - they even present Jack the Giant-Killer as an infinite regress of meta-stories - but it's done skillfully enough that I've met bright 6-year-olds who found it funny and got the point. The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
Amusing and yes, these are stupid tales. They are silly and not what you expect. The winners and losers change places. I do like Chickin Lickin'. Cute name. Maybe, back in 1992, this was more surprising than it is now, I can't remember. It's interesting. My nephew had me read it and he enjoyed the book and laughed when he was supposed to. The Stinky Cheese man was his favorite. He knew that it was like the Gingerbread man. He had fun.I did like how the narrator broke into several of the stories to make a through link.
Ahhh yes, this book makes me want to eat a big pile of stinky cheese shaped like a strange little man. This book had the perfect amount of fair tale weirdness that I needed as a child, and that strangeness is still amazing today!!
I grew up with book and always loved it and today I got to read it to my nephew, just like I did with his older brother and sisters.
I learned that the Stinky Cheese Man is the shit. Period.
I guess I can to a point appreciate the parodistic intent of Jon Scieszka's The Stinky Cheese Man and Other Fairly Stupid Tales.
However, the retold narratives do not really work for me as satires (as parodies), primarily due to the fact there are simply too many tales presented.
That being said, even this truth, this factoid is simply NOT enough for me to rate this collection with more than two stars, and actually one and a half stars, if half stars were possible (as I also rather detest the accompanying illustrations, which while expressive and competent, I personally find creepy and aesthetically unpleasing, their Caldecott Honour designation for illustrator Lane Smith notwithstanding).
A delightful book that makes me laugh whenever I read it. Everybody should have at least one copy of this book in their home.
Back then it was just so important to teach our vulnerable young that royalty are so constitutionally different from us - wholly different protoplasm, so delicate, so high maintenance, that they could detect a pea under 100 mattresses.
In this one the Prince tires of waiting for a princess who could detect a pea (no one could - i liked that) so he slips in a bowling ball.
But my favorite of all these delicious tales is the title tale - a revision of (i guess?) the Gingerbread Man.
You can't catch me, I'm the --- man".
I adore The Stinky Cheese Man! Jon Scieszka is brilliant and funny - if you haven't read this you're missing out! He and Lane Smith make an excellent team!
Back in 1989, “The True Story of the Three Little Pigs” was the most popular children’s book ever written and that’s where the Jon Scieszka and Lane Smith team made their famous trademark as children’s book writers.
That book is called “The Stinky Cheese Man and other Fairly Stupid Tales,” and has became a classic in its own right and won numerous awards, including the 1993 Caldecott Honor Book.
Its good sense of humor and creative drawings by the dynamic duo, Jon Scieszka and Lane Smith has made this book an international success.
I was walking through a bookstore with my cousin who is 5 years younger than me when we came across a display of The Stinky Cheese Man. She exclaimed, "Didn't you just love this book as a kid?!" I had to admit that I hadn't heard of it before, which I was a bit embarrassed about, since she was so enthusiastic and adamant that it was a must read as a kid.
I'm now an adult and can read whatever I want, without embarrassment, so I checked out a copy at my local library.
A wonderfully wacky selection of tales. Scieszka so effortlessly twists the traditional to the strange and unconventional, sprinkled with just the right amount of humour for good measure. The narrative defies all kind of order and would be a superb postmodern picturebook to use within KS1 and LKS2. From characters taking control, overwhelming the rather intrusive narrator and popping up in stories where they do not belong, all structure is lost and the book becomes carnage in the best kind of way.
A brilliantly hilarious book retelling classic tales! Had me in stitches on every page!
The Stinky Cheese Man and Other Fairly Stupid Tales retells--and wreaks havoc on--the allegories we all thought we knew by heart.
The Stinky Cheese Man deconstructs not only the tradition of the fairy tale but also the entire notion of a book.
Characters slide in and out of tales; Cinderella rebuffs Rumpelstiltskin, and the Giant at the top of the beanstalk snacks on the Little Red Hen. There are no lessons to be learned or morals to take to heart--just good, sarcastic fun that smart-alecks of all ages will love."Hilarious book because they take a familiar fairy tale and put a few new twists, which the kids love.
I would recommend this book for any fairy tale unit, or read aloud book, for children in first grade and up.
This book is simply genius.
The book is a picture book but with lots of different fairy tales that have been twisted and warped into a fabulous and hilarious read.
You think you know classic tales like the Gingerbread Man, Jack and the Beanstalk and Little Red Riding Hood?
Think again.
With clever tweaks and twists, some of them are linked together in an interesting and unique way.
In summary, if you haven't read this book before and are going to, prepare to have tears of laughter rolling down your face as you hopefully enjoy it as much as I did.
I used to feel fairly naughty for reading this.One, because several friends' parents banned it.Two, because it was a picture book and I was reading "beneath me."
Guys, this is the most dead serious book I've ever read, much recommended for sassy postmodernist children.
this book is awesome. WHO WILL I GET TO PLANT THE WHEAT!? WHO IS THIS ISBN GUY?
Laughed through the entire thing. The stories were cleverly done. Fairy tales that have been rewritten with a cynical and comical spin but still appropriate for children. Lots of word play that I didn’t notice until I reread it. When I first opened the book, I did feel overwhelmed as I didn’t know where to start. But that was all intentionally done. Very “meta”! Loved it.
I have to admit, I'm a little surprised this is/was marketed to kids, especially kids like I was who didn't need any help overriding the rules and being utterly sarcastic.That said, this is such a weird book to return to as an adult.
When your stories are only about two pages long, it's kind of a short book.The thing I really appreciate about this book (and that would give it an extra half star, if Goodreads did halvsies) is the way it plays with printing and layout.
The stories are blah, mostly because fairy tales aren't all that interesting when you introduce them to things like reality and practicality.
In this cazy story, the author has combined many traditional tales such as The Gingerbread Man, Jack and the Beanstalk, The Little Red Hen, and Little Red Riding Hood just to name a few.
Throughout the book, the author entwines all the different stories in an ingenious way.
This book would be appropriate for older children who have a strong background in the telling or reading of a variety of Traditional Tales.
Spoiler Alert!"Once upon a time there was a mother duck and a father duck who had seven baby ducklings.
Six of them were regular-looking ducklings.
The book is made up of a collection of tales, that Jack leads us through.
Scieszka takes the reader through classic fairy tales, with a twist: the Little Red Hen gets a bit whiny, Chicken Licken sees not the sky, but the table of contents falling down, and The Really Ugly Duckling grows up to just be a really ugly duck.Critique:This book was hilarious, and somewhat whimsical-- the characters themselves were done in a post-modern style, with a gritty, dark edge to them.
The author and illustrator collaborate to make a silly, playful presentation of the book.
these were a bunch of stupid tales.I mean, maybe something with a little more humor or wit?
Then again, my mom read one of these little stories and laughed out loud, so it's definitely a hit or miss thing.To know if you'll enjoy this little book of stories, here's what's basically inside:"There once was a really ugly duckling.
But then he grew up and just became a really ugly duck, The End."The illustrations were beautifully detailed and painted in a very unique style that reminded me a bit of reading Coraline, which was nice!
But I just couldn't enjoy this little book overall.
The humor wasn't my thing, sorry!
I also read this book when I was younger and enjoyed the silly take on many of these tales. It contains enough jokes for adults to keep this from being yet another mundane, over-read fairy tale book as well. The illustrations are interesting and I enjoyed them very much. This is an excellent book to read over a span of days with each student getting to pick their own story. It will leave students laughing since they're takes on such popular fairy tales but with outlandish endings. I would highly recommend this book.
Re-read for POPSUGAR Challenge: A book you loved as a child. The stories are so funny and the pictures are awesome. I read this countless times as a child. Still the best! ~~~~~Added April 9, 2014 - My brothers bought me this book for Christmas when I was about 10. Such a great, funny twist on familiar fairy tales!
I got talked into reading this at my 9 year-old's bedtime and boy am I glad. Some of the stories were hilarious and others were funny. Luckily, my child knew all the references and we both laughed at the numerous adaptations of traditional tales.
This is a must have for every child's library!Everything about the book is used to perfection- from endpapers, barcode, table of content.Beloved fairy tales are given new irreverent nonsensical twists in this laugh out loud collection. Great for grown ups, too!Absolutely brilliant!
Funny concept. If I wrote children's stories, I'd be tempted to write something like this. I loved hearing Kate's laugh at some of the twists.
I absolutely adore these books that take classic fairy tales and turn them completely on their head.
