https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/194086.Sleeping_Arrangements
I don't care if it's because of unresolved feelings, because you got drunk or because you need to "get it out of your system", cheating is not okay and it is definitely not romantic to write a book about it and somehow still have everyone have a happy fucking ending.NO.But let me tell you about the story first, so you can actually follow my rant.
Even though I haven't seen or talked to her in 15 years, of course I still know her because no-one changes in 15 years and I want to leave my wife and kids to be with her.That was almost just as bad as the YA relationships these days.
Sleeping Arrangements didn't make the cut.
I love Sophie Kinsella, but while Madeleine Wickham might be the same person, she's not the same writer.
It seems that in attempting to create a slightly more serious scenario, she lost all her spark.
Sophie Kinsella's plot premises are utterly ridiculous, but she has me laughing and turning the pages.
Madeleine Wickham's premise in Sleeping Arrangements is almost as improbable, and the scenes where she attempts to be funny are just lame (like the dinner where all the food is dyed different colors).
Instead of turning pages I found myself getting vaguely depressed and wandering off to do something else.
I almost never give a book one star.
I always try to find something good to say about a book, and this one's by a best-selling author so I expected something enjoyable.
Sadly, I found it just plain unpleasant.
Two unlikeable couples find themselves unwillingly vacationing together.
All they did was drink, (I don't think any of them were ever soberthroughout the whole book), and complain about their lives.
The Nanny that one couple brought with them seduces a 16-year-old boy.
His parents don't care.
His parents don't care.
Why should I -- the reader -- care what happens to any of them?
This book is awful.
Right now I'm listening to it on my Creative Zen player while at the gym and I can't wait until it's finished.
The characters are all completely unlikable, which makes it difficult to care what happens to them.
I'm half-way through now and not expecting much out of the rest.
We'll see in about a week...I was right.
This book did not pick up, the characters did not become more relatable or even empathizable.
This book is for shallow, rich, snobby women who only care about sex, money, and being bitches.
Maybe I'm outgrowing chick lit?
The last few chick lit books I've read have not really been enjoyable to me, so I'm sort of leaning towards the former; but maybe I'm just making bad choices.
There were not any characters in this book that I liked.
Two families are thrown together in the same house for a week of holiday and it's starting to look like it wasn't an accident.
The books that Wickham wrote under the pen name Sophi Kinsella are highly enjoyable fun.
I wish I could go back to my self two weeks ago and take this away.
she thinks he's being obsesseive about whether or not he's going to get fired & she wants to spend the vacation not worrying about it.why i don't like these characters:chloe: i think it's kind of fucked up & very insensitive that she won't let phillip talk about his concerns over getting fired.
just kind of clueless about chloe's feelings for hugh (he never even knew they had dated or known each other previously) & obsessive about his job.amanda: she doesn't really let hugh involve himself in any kind of parenting, & then complains that she may as well be a single mother for all the help she gets from him.
2.5 starsI have mixed feelings about this story.
Positives- great characterization: you get both the positive and the negative aspects of each character that makes them believable.
They are fallible and imperfect.
- great plot and writing style;- nice – though predictable – ending.Negatives - alternating third person viewpoint, except Amanda’s.
Even the babysitter has her own POV, why not Amanda?
- cheating – unnecessary.
The plot would have been totally intact even without it.- some clichés and some over-sentimentalized and overdramatized moments.Mediocre, but could be satisfying, if you are in the mood.Originally posted on my blog on March 4, 2014.
Not if it was the last book on my kindle.https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Disons que c'était une lecture plaisir, sans prise de tête et sans véritable questionnement ou remise en question de la part du lecteur.L'intrigue n'est pas très morale, on peut le dire, et pas très élaborée non plus.
Autant, il y a des romans chick lit> que j'ai beaucoup apprécié, parce qu'ils posaient des questions fondamentales alors que l'intrigue était plutôt légère, autant celui-ci ne suppose rien du tout, à part peut-être nous indigner si on a un minimum de valeurs, notamment concernant le mariage et la fidélité.
Je pense qu'il faut aborder ce roman sans s'attendre à grand chose, parce que finalement, il n'y a pas vraiment de suspense ou de retournements de situation.
i think the author might have been trying to steal/use the setting of "Enchanted April" for this book...instead of Londoners needing a break and heading to a villa in Italy, this one was Londoners needing a break and heading to a villa in Spain.
i dont like spouses cheating in the storyline so i would have given it 1 star, but it took a turn three quarters of the way through the book that was good and a little redeeming it to 2 stars.
but if you dont mind people cheating on their significant others and a 20ish year old woman seducing a 16 year old boy, go for it!
This was so fun! I loved the characters and their dynamics with each other. I really didn't know how everything would wrap up, but I like the way that it ended. A fun contemporary!
What they find out when they arrive is that Gerard has accidentally double booked his villa and they end up having to share it as every hotel in the area is fully booked.But there is this big unfortunate thing, Chloe and Hugh had been a couple at some point in their and now they stand before each other fighting the demons of the past.This was a quick and light fluffy read that I got through quickly.
His parents don’t care.Hugh is after Chloe even after knowing they have their children and partners.
Wat een immense bullshit.Chloe en Hugh zijn net twee irritante kleine kinderen die je wil doodslaan.Philip en Amanda zijn misschien niet de perfecte partners maar wat een immense little shits.Alle kinderenDENK AAN DE KINDERENJenna omschreef Hugh prachtig:"Zonde van de ruimte.
Hij is een adorable knakker en vader die alleen even een paar moeilijke maanden heeft gehad omdat hij mogelijk ontslagen wordt.
Misschien was ze zelfs wel 50 wie weet niemand want haar leeftijd wordt niet gezegd.Tot op ongeveer driekwart van het boek en ze "rond de 20" blijkt te zijn.
Did not like this very much . . . Madeleine Wickham may be Sophie Kinsella but Sophie Kinsella is the much better writer! It seems as if Madeleine Wickham likes to deal with more serious issues and she doesn't do that good a job of it. She really should stick with the wacky, funny, ridiculous characters she creates as Sophie. Or maybe she's just bipolar and the Madeleine part is depressive. It's one to skip.
Not at all that interesting. The story was dry and pointless. Chloe and Hugh, who were once in relationship meet up again 10 years later, and they are both involved with other people. The only bright spot of this book was Jenna, the nanny. I won't go into great detail but the story just ends rather abruptly. There was no kind of resolve, just a rush to finish the book. A waste of time, I don't think I'll be trying anything by this author in the future.
Just one word .(view spoiler)[Rubbish ............On second thoughts , I have more to say ..Utterly rubbish ,these is crap .bullshit .waste of money , energy , time .WASTED MY LIFE FOR THESE . *vomit*I AM SHOCKED I DID NOT END UP IN A HOSPITAL . (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I had a difficult time getting into this book. The characters weren't very interesting or involved, so I didn't develop any empathy for them and their stories. I thought it ended abrubtly and since I read the whole book, I was hoping for more closure. The only redeeming part of this book was the son Sam's relationship with the Jenna, the nanny. His awkwardness about losing his virginity was both humourous and igry.
Silly fun! Not the best book Wickham has written, by far, and more for the maturing audience (Hen-Lit, instead of Chick-Lit), which is a step away from her norm. But, still witty and fun. Super easy summer read...taking place in HOT SULTRY SUMMERY SPAIN! So, grab a sangria and sip away the afternoon!
I don't know if Madeleine Wickham is Sophie Kinsella's alter who expresses the latter's subconscious thoughts. Only God knows why Sophie Kinsella, sorry, I mean Madeleine Wickham chose to romanticize cheating. Really disappointed.
I guess books about people having affairs make me angry...but this was like they were trying to get caught and not caring if their spouses saw (i.e. when they all sleep outside, the two of them think it is acceptable to sleep together on the same blanket, while their spouses are just a few meters away!!) And how convenient is it at the end when Chloe realizes that Hugh is the same guy he was when he was 20 and that things probably couldn't have worked out between them anyways!?
Having read all of Sophie Kinsella's novels, I decided to check out her novels under her real name, Madeleine Wickham.
I went for the cheapest of the Nook books, Sleeping Arrangements.This novel lacks the sophistication and the light-heartedness of her later novels as Kinsella.
The former-lovers think it's a big joke on their friend's part.As per usual, I could not put the book down as Wickham/Kinsella is a talented storyteller; however, the content throughout was heavier than what I was looking for.
That being said, I would not say it was overall a bad book; it just wasn't want I was hoping for, looking for and/or expecting.
Hugh and Amanda are married with two little girls and live a very different lifestyle than Chloe and Philip.
Their worlds will collide when they arrive at the villa in Spain to find it double-booked, but that's not the only surprise that will be forthcoming.I didn't feel like I was constantly predicting what would happen next although it did fit into the genre nicely (which overall is a bit predictable).
I read Sleeping Arrangements really quickly, and I wanted to keep going to see what would happen and how things would turn out.
Definitely would recommend for a nice beach read!
Once again I enjoyed Madeleine Wickham's book hugely.
It was a very touching story about life itself, about love, past and about family.
I'm quite young still, the same age as Chloe and Hugh were when they first met so I couldn't really put myself into their shoes but still this was an amazing story.
The book itself was very quick paced so I read it really quickly.
It was very enjoyable reading experience and I learned a lot from it even though I'm still young and I have to wait a while to get into to that kind of situations.
Ummmm... was disappointed by this book. I liked the idea of the book but she just didn't execute it well. I'm not going to hate on it like a lot of people did but I will recommend to read her other books before this one.
Couldn't hold my interest. Since this is by Sophie Kinsella, I expected a fun, quick, engrossing read. Not so. Couldn't get into the random characters or story.
Two families in dire need of vacations are double-booked at a mutual friend's villa in Spain.
Hugh and Chloe had met fifteen years ago and had had a relationship that ended when he couldn't cope with the idea of her already having a baby, so he disappeared from her life.
And now they meet again in an isolated villa in the south of Spain.This could have been a fun one.
Jenna is a sassy babysitter to Hugh and Amanda's daughters and the only one who actually enjoyed these holidays, even though they only lasted 3 days.The writing was easy to read, but I didn't like most of the characters of this novel, and after Chloe and Hugh cheated on their partners I almost stopped reading.
Not the best of Madeleine Wickham's books.
This plot could have been quite entertaining however it wasn't as humorous as it could have been.A large part of the story is focused on Chloe and Hugh's affair.
I really do not like cheating as a plot point so I didn't enjoy this part of the book.
The characters also didn't face any consequences for their actions which again is something that I did not like.
I still plan to read Madeleine's other books I believe I only have three more left to read.
I love Sophie Kinsella.
So I was excited to discover a whole new set of books by her writing under Madeline Wickham.
This book was definitely a treat and exactly what I was hoping for.
The characters were a bit different than I'm used to.
They certainly weren't Becky Bloomwood/Brandon, but if I wanted to read a Shopaholic book, I would pick one of the many there are up.
I did find some of the plot pieces a bit obscure.
The nanny was definitely a character I had a hard time caring about.
I simply loved how everything tied together in such an unexpected way at the end.
This book is very easy to breeze through and would be good as a holiday read. Two families end up in the same villa for their holiday and it just so happens that the wife from one family and the husband from another family are ex-lovers.I didn't think that Chloe or Hugh's conduct was very good or excusable in this book and I felt that they should have both been found out rather than getting away with it. Both their partners seemed quite nice. A very light book.
Two families end up being double booked into the same Villa, which actually sounds like a bloody mansion rather than a Villa from the way it's described.
They decide to just get on with it and enjoy their holiday but Chloe and Hugh go way back.
This bit of the story got on my neves somewhat, especially when Hugh just seemed willing to abandon his own family to try and have a go with Chloe.
Didn't really like Hugh.
The book ends without their fling ever being discovered and we are left beliving things have been better becuase of it.
