https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1363586.The_Mystery_of_Holly_Lane
Without a mystery to solve, the Five are reduced to playing wild pranks to pass their time.
One of these pranks was Fatty disguising himself (obviously!) but what really brought a mystery into their lives again was Larry's prank.
Disguising himself as a window cleaner and cleaning windows of random people, Larry chances to see an old man feeling around for his money.
Of course, Mr Goon is baffled and goes after the wrong person, while the children solve the mystery.
Ern makes an appearance, which is always fun.
I found this book a nice read but not really as much fun as many other books in the series.
Meanwhile having no mystery at hand, the children decide to play the fool yet again, with Fatty taking Mr Goon in as a foreign lady who can read palms and Larry posing as a window cleaner doing some practice “shadowing”.
In some books in this series, I found myself finding fault with the children for the kind of tricks they played on Mr Goon, who isn’t the most likeable of people, no doubt but doesn’t always deserve how far they go.
Mr Goon does a rather detestable thing with Buster, having him falsely accused and captured and it was fun watching how Fatty got back at him.
Enid Blyton is an amazing childrens author, bestselling in the world. Although almost undiscovered by Americans.This series (The 5 Find-outers) Features 4 friends who search out mysteries like detectives, often foiling the local constable while doing so. Fatty- The leader of the children, often dresses up in hilarious disguises as he solves these mysteries... Enjoy.Top Notch reading... Introduce your kids to Enid Blyton today!!!
Enid Blyton selalu berhasil membuat saya ingin bertualang dan memecahkan misteri-misteri. Buku yang menarik, karena bisa mengembangkan imajinasi pembaca :)
Not read since I was about eight, and still great fun.
amazing
The usual enjoyable Blyton fare now available on a e-reader :-)
Another mystery to solved by The Five Find-Outers. This time, it's about robbery.
The story of Penny's long lost sister Holly.
Nope not quite this time Ethel, but that would make a humorous addition to mixed up books anyway I am not just digressing but in the next suburb, this one is book 11 of the Five Find Outers (and dog!) and surprise they solve a mystery whilst another surprise annoy Goon and they also have the Fatty and Bets show going on, well no surprise their either.
By the numbers now as we get to book eleven, you know what to expect and yet here we are again - such is reading life!
How strange! Who could have stolen all that money from a blind man? The Find Outers have a list of suspects, but Goon is on the case as well, and it will be a race to the finish. They will of course, show him up before the end, but that's part of the fun. A few new friends and glad people by the end, the Find Outers just go through life helping others and solving mysteries. A great, great book!
Akan selalu ada soft spot bagi saya untuk para anggota Pasukan Mau Tahu. Pip, Beth, Larry, Daisy, dan Fatty barangkali yang sudah menemani saya semasa kecil, tetapi mereka masih terus berumur dua belas tahun, sementara saya akan terus bertambah tua. Meski demikian, saya tidak akan pernah melupakan mereka.
Pathetic nonsense. The ridiculously ill conceived and unlikely ways that the gang has been getting involved with the "mysteries" lately has really started to annoy me.
The story is about someone stole money that the old man had so carefully hidden in his cottage and it dissapear.The furniture is dissapear in the middle of the ninght to...Fatty and the other Find-Outers have long list of suspects and a few of clues.
Great novel
Ok read
Samaa salaisuus-sarjaa ja samaa tyyliä kuin aiemmatkin lukemani sarjan kirjat.
Read this as part of a 3-story compilation of Enid Blyton's Five Found-Outers and a Dog. I still have that thing somwhere.
Very nice one.
Rasanya saya juga ikut bertualang bersama Fatty, Pip, Larry, Bets dan Daisy untuk memecahkan misteri di pondok Hollies. Menarik!
Another old fashioned book that filled up my childhood.
Reread it again for the... I don't know. I know I've read this more than five.
great !! interesting story
Good read.
AWESOME LOVED IT COOL
Obviously awesome! :D
their mysteries are always awesome. the book is is so cool
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood.
Leest vlot.
I think I'm a bit over-exposed to these mystery books now. I've read 7 to the kids and it's telling!... but the kids love them so onto the next one!
