https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6224935-this-is-where-i-leave-you
And in reading the dust jacket flap, I was immediately drawn in by the idea of the book: a family -- four siblings -- mourning the death of their father, coming together for seven days to sit shiva.
The charming fuck up little brother.
This book reads like a film, and not in a good way -- not in a way that says that the author's writing style is inspired by film but rather that he wants to bust into the film industry and he wrote a book to make it happen.
Voice Over: Judd Foxman had the perfect job...(on-air antics at the radio station; his boss makes a sexist joke)VO: the perfect girl...(hot young starlet (Jessica Biel?) smiles at camera)VO: The perfect life...
Until one day, it left him behind.(smiling, Judd carries an ornate birthday cake into a bedroom.
How's it hanging?" Back to Judd, who flings the still burning cake at the couple.)(phone rings)Off-Camera Dialogue: Judd, it's about dad.(Sad music.
Montage of Judd driving, looking sad.
Judd's brother: "Welcome home.")(Dialogue over a montage, fill this in later...)"I can't believe dad wants us to sit shiva!
I got book pushed into reading this book. Kelly and Snotchocheez both rated this book highly and I usually somewhat agree with them on books so I requested this sucker from the library.And..I loved it.  How to get a five star review from this hateful reader? Characters that are so real that I expect them to drive up my driveway. Characters that have no filter on their mouths or their thoughts. A fucked up family that makes mine not look as bad. I'm not going to tell you what the book is about.
I got book pushed into reading this book.
Kelly and Snotchocheez both rated this book highly and I usually somewhat agree with them on books so I requested this sucker from the library.And..I loved it.
How to get a five star review from this hateful reader?
Characters that are so real that I expect them to drive up my driveway.
Characters that have no filter on their mouths or their thoughts.
A fucked up family that makes mine not look as bad.
Just go read it...and don't be trying to mack up on Judd..He is mine!
Tropper also seems completely obsessed with judging the physiognomy and physiques of all of the characters, including minor ones that just show up to sit shiva or whatever.
Everyone is physically icky except for the shining goddess of a wife who cheated on him, and all the women about whom he makes extensive character judgments based on their hotness.Having said that, there are some good family vignettes in here, and some moving moments.
Just read The Corrections if you want a family-dysfunction novel about a dude in crisis.Also, everyone quit making the re-hashing of dreams a recurring plot point unless it's, like, a fantasy novel where the dream is a magical visitation.
Defines a new genre: "dick lit." A few moments of profound human interactions amid a sea of objectifying comments about women. Not a single female character passes by the author without some mention of her attractiveness or lack of as a sole criterion of her worth. Despicable.
Judd Foxman and his wife Jen lost a baby during the last months of her pregnancy.
Months after that, Judd doesn’t have a job and is living in a crappy apartment when he gets the news that his father finally died after long battle with cancer.
Judd’s even more shocked to learn that his father’s last request was that a traditional shiva be done for him so he has to go home and spend 7 days dealing with his family that has years of pent up frustrations and grudges with each other.I’ll bet you're laughing already, ain’t ya?
Judd Foxwell is a broken, damaged man.
His dying wish: to have his family - non practicing Jews - sit shiva for 7 days as final tribute to him in death.
Except the 7 days are more like a forced quarantine for Judd and his 4 siblings.
What ensues is a hot mess of grudges as wounds are reopened but as part of that process, they are finally given a chance to heal.
This is a story of family, relationships and things that matter and shedding things that don’t.
As far as dysfunctional families go, theirs is pretty bleak but I think it's just a matter of where they sit on the spectrum.
This book is weak. I’m not usually a fan of novels that think they can hold their own merit on nothing but shock value and really bad sexual innuendos—I’m pretty sure this book may have overestimated itself. I’d even feel bad for it, but the fact that its shallow cliché-ness seems to beg for a Hollywood deal rather sucks up any pity I might have otherwise had.
I started This is Where I Leave You yesterday afternoon after picking up all four books I currently have on the go and hardly getting through a page before tossing them aside frustrated. I'm not in a rut, really, I'm not. I want to read, but nothing was grabbing my attention. Friends tried to help, asking me what I was in the mood for. Honestly, I had no clue. I have a list of books I want to finish by the end of this year, but that doesn't mean anything if I'm not in the mood. A Sudden Light,
I started This is Where I Leave You yesterday afternoon after picking up all four books I currently have on the go and hardly getting through a page before tossing them aside frustrated.
I have a list of books I want to finish by the end of this year, but that doesn't mean anything if I'm not in the mood.
I picked up This Is Where I Leave You. It's a book club book for the month of November, so it is on my list for this year.
“You never know when it will be the last time you’ll see your father, or kiss your wife, or play with your little brother, but there’s always a last time. If you could remember every last time, you’d never stop grieving.” Jonathan Tropper and Nick Hornby are two authors that seem to be on the same plane although from two different parts of the world. Sarcasm and dark humor are their specialty, and a few movie adaptations have followed in the wake of their novels. Sadly, even at the adamant urgi
The Foxman family are all called home as the result of the death of their father.
Time has created unacknowledged rifts in the family, so it’s a total surprise when they are told that their unreligious father’s dying wish was that his family all sit shiva in rememberance of him.
Not an easy task to accomplish, especially as each family member seems to be undergoing a crisis of their own.I haven’t laughed so hard in a while!
I know I’ll definitely come back to this book whenever I need a good laugh.
I haven’t tackled the movie just yet, but I’m saving that for a special occasion.
Meh. This book was fine, but it wasn't good.
My main problem is that there seemed to be a lot of anger at and objectifying of women on the part of the main character, Judd Foxman.
Maybe I just wasn't supposed to like Judd as a character, but since he's narrating the book I just ended up not liking the book very much.The writing was fine and I was involved enough in the plot and the nuances of this family's relationships to finish the book, but it seemed to be lacking something.
This was a recommendation from Sarah of Sarah's Bookshelves blog and I loved it! If you enjoy funny and irreverent books about dysfunctional characters, this is the book for you. The death of the family patriarch brings together the Foxman family for seven days to sit shiva, their father’s last request. The enforced togetherness brings all the dysfunction to the forefront. What ensues is a mixture of hilarity with moments of poignancy. Highly recommended!
One of the funniest novels I read last year. Jonathan Tropper has such an amazing, razor-sharp wit. I couldn't stop laughing, and there were a few unexpected moments where I got a little choked-up. A wonderful balance of humor and heart. The movie was just so-so. The book is so much better! I love Judd and his crazy, opinionated, and unapologetic family. They tell it like it is and then some. A must-read. :) Enjoy!
So, Judd, the narrator, moves back to the old homestead for seven days of communing with his three siblings and a whole lot of ghosts-of-not-so-good-times-past.
Says Judd, "In my family, we don't so much air our grievances as wallow in them." Sounds like a swell time is guaranteed.And there are a lot of funny moments in this book.
This truly started out as a five-star read.And then...I started to really hate Judd.Here he is, folks, rapidly approaching middle-age with a rapidly expanding waistline, and yet, he has comments on EVERY woman's body.
-It took me most of the book before I began to realize that, due to the narrator's state of depression, he's a bit hard to like.
-There were times when I got a little annoyed at the depictions of female characters; the phrase “her smooth, tanned thighs” appeared on what felt like practically every page (even though I was aware that the narrator's state of horny, dejected longing is a part of his character.
-I teared up at the end, and I truly laughed out loud—much as I hate that phrase now—throughout the entire book.
Being married to Jonathan Tropper could scare a woman to death.
Besides, he's a very sexy writer--he knows men, too, especially the side of them that has that morning wood thing going on all day, every day.
But Tropper is not out for anything other than to spin a really great yarn about a family of grown children who haven't really gotten along very well for most of their lives.
Tropper's one liners could be quoted left and right bringing laughter right out loud; he did that to me.This really is a heck of a great read.
I really enjoyed this book and even a poorly-made movie can't bring it down. The characters felt like people I knew and I sometimes wondered what they were doing when I wasn't reading. The style and flow of this book worked very well and I have recommended it to many people.
The story is told from son Judd's point of view, and his fathers' death could not have happened at a worse time, while his own life is also falling apart.
Jonathan Tropper just seemed to have the knack of capturing the raw and honest everyday observations of Judd (and all of us) as he rails against his recent life changing dramas, the raw honesty of life when you realise that this is it, everyone is just going along in life and nothing is ever going to be perfect.
This is a great book, a truely honest telling of a lovely story, I highly recommend it.
Whether it was the overly absurd dysfunctional-ness of the Foxman clan, the child-like horniness of the lead character that has to sexualize any attractive woman or tear down any woman that doesn't meet his criteria, or maybe it was just the inability of the author to make me feel any genuine compassion for the characters and their many many many many grievances but all and all this novel was a swing and miss for me.
Honestly I think the main thing that made me dislike this book was the overly objectifying comments made towards women every two minute just got extremely grating and tainted this novel for me.
And, because Life in this book likes to remorselessly kick people while they're down, Judd loses his father to cancer.
And just when you think things can't get any worse, Judd finds out that his atheist father's last request is for his emotionally stunted family to sit shiva, seven days for a family full of anger and resentment and unresolved issues to come together and mourn.
It seems to want to be a comedy and a thought-provoking look at mortality and family, but never hits the right balance.I think what's lacking in the novel is Arrested Development's key to success: Michael Bluth.
Judd's constant snipes at women and their weight problems and their hotness quotient and typical male writers crap about the drag of being slave to their sex drive and the drag of being a monogamous male and again!
I started to worry that this IS male thinking and my husband and friends have just never told me what is really on their mind, 24-7.
But at least my husband and my male friends have redeeming qualities and the really curious thing about this book is what exactly makes Judd appealing to anyone, let alone his hot wife or Penny at the sport store or - me, as a reader.I guess I answered my own question.
Bij het lezen van de eerste zin werd ik 'gepakt'...hilarische momenten, interessant thema, goed geschreven. Echter halverwege het verhaal waren de hilarische momenten te gedoseerd, te bewust gepland... alles wat er, thematisch gezien, in het verhaal moet zitten is er bewust in verwerkt...waarbij je denkt 'dit kan er ook nog wel bij' waardoor de hilarische momenten niet hilarisch zijn maar vervelen. halverwege het verhaal sloeg bij mij de verveling toe...jammer...
Love it.I can't decide which I was drawn to more, Tropper's sarcastic wit or the not-so-subtle family dysfunction.
I love that Tropper took the time to focus on each character at length at some point or another.
One thing I loved immediately was the sheer openness of the family dysfunction, it bordered on embarrassing at times and of course, endlessly funny.
I loved it for this reason.The more I read, the more I feared the ending was going to leave me horribly pissed off.
3.5 stars if I could but rounded up to 4 because it really made me laugh .This book is very funny a lot of the time and it's sometimes sad , sometimes irreverent and borderline obscene at times but this book is always entertaining .
It's good to read a book that makes you laugh once in a while.I don't often see the movie before I've read the book , but in this case I did .
A lot of the very funny dialog was taken word for word .

This was the first Jonathan Tropper book I read and I'm so glad I decided to pick it up.
I work in a bookstore and this book kept catching my eye because of the simplicity of the design.
Anyway, our main character is home to mourn the death of his father.
Meanwhile, his personal life is falling to pieces.
His family is like one big sitcom with twisting stories that most of us can only imagine.
By the time I reached the end of the book, I was praying that there were more pages that had just fallen out somewhere because I didn't want it to end.
And then there’s also the tragedy of BOBO, Barrack Obama’s day long marriage with Bill O’Reilly that ended when Barrack realized Bill wasn’t black or maybe Barrack realized that he was black and not white I’m confused about everything including why they divorced.
Okay, maybe you’ve laughed in a Shiva or Wake or any Ritual for the Departed, I mean, I once decided to look up Classical Art Memes on Facebook while at my Gran’s brother’s wake, I can tell you now that it wasn’t the best decision of my life.
And by that I mean family, marriage, death, wakes, adultery, weird pregnancies and not Disney, Classical Art Memes, and Facebook.
So here they are: narrator Judd, whose wife left him for his boss; oldest brother Paul, who runs the family sporting goods shop; Paul’s wife, Alice, desperate to have a baby; sister Wendy, a bored housewife with a high-flying financier husband and three kids; and youngest sibling Phillip, who dates models but can’t hold down a job.
Had I read them in chronological order, perhaps I would have found One Last Thing boring and derivative, but instead I felt the opposite was true: One Last Thing was so much funnier.
Maybe my ex-husband would show up in some weird attempt to win me back but I'd have a really hard time with it because I ran into my old high school crush (Jake or Rambo) who is looking good and has flawless hair- making me reevaluate not going to homecoming with him and instead studying for my SATs that I got a perfect score on, allowing me to get a full scholarship somewhere prestigious and that's why I'm always quoting things and typing on a typewriter the whole time I'm home.
Judd's father dies, and his dying wish is for his family to sit shiva-- which means confined to the home, mourning and reflecting for seven days.
This book constantly reminded me that all families have some level of dysfunction, and that pulls us all together.
The book reminded me of the movie "The Family Stone" and I just couldn't get enough of this book, flew through it, and already sad that it's over.This was my first book by Tropper and his writing style is kickass, and in your face, and I love him for that.
