https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93282.The_Acts_of_King_Arthur_and_His_Noble_Knights
Go figure!It's all* here, the rags-to-riches story of how Arthur ascended to the throne, the many deeds of his knights, the magic of Merlin and Morgan Le Fay.His translation of Thomas Malory's version of the Arthurian legend is almost strangely faithful, seldom veering from that 15th century work in order to modernize the language enough for today's reader.
Movies, tv series and books often skip a good number of the stories and stick with the most well-known.
However, this faithful translation dismayed and disappointed the publisher, who expected a Steinbeckized version of the Arthurian tales, something more like a Grapes of Wrath-gritty tale of down-and-out knights.
Such is the law of quest.”I found myself noticing things here that I had missed or glossed over from my initial reading of Malory such as the incongruous nature of the various enchantresses generally known to be “the damsels of the Lady of the Lake and schooled in wonders.” They range from the damsel who gave to Arthur his enchanted sword Excalibur (the same maiden killed by Sir Balin for ostensibly having had his own mother burned at the stake) to the Lady Nyneve, the bane of Merlin who, despite her role in deceiving the besotted old enchanter, stealing his knowledge, and leaving him buried alive is not portrayed as evil.
He takes the basic events of Malory and breathes the life of a modern novel into them: thoughts and feelings, fears and hopes, humour and understanding.
He makes sense of the way Kay's character changes, makes Lancelot likeable and human and his love for Guinevere a real and painful thing.(If you know me at all, you probably know that I regularly loathe Lancelot and, at best, tolerate him.
Again, the first few sections aren't impressive, it's when he gets to Lancelot that he really shines.I wish I could read and love Malory the way Steinbeck clearly did.
Indeed, until I read this book, almost all of what I knew about King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table came from these two films:and Rather, I decided to read John Steinbeck's take on Thomas Malory's Le Morte D'Arthur because of my ambition to be a Steinbeck completist*: it's Steinbeck and his writing that interest me, not folklore.
From reading Jay Parini's biography of Steinbeck and Steinbeck's collected letters (Steinbeck: A Life in Letters) I knew that Steinbeck's love of Malory's work dated from his childhood.
Steinbeck spent several years researching Malory in particular and Arthurian legend in general before he started writing.
There's a sort of tenderness in the way he treats the tales, a love for them that still allowed him to see the humour a modern audience might find in them.I liked his treatment of Kay -- a little more understanding than other writers, I think.
(Guy Gavriel Kay perhaps excepted, but Lancelot and Guinevere aren't the centre of the story he's telling there.)I enjoyed it a lot, what there is of it, and this edition also contains a lot of Steinbeck's letters concerning it while he was writing it.
This is a tough one to rate.
The story is great but basically it's just a retelling of Morte d'Arthurs tale.
I was expecting the story from a different angle told in Stienbecks unique style so I was left disappointed.
I've read so many versions that this time I think I just became overwhelmed with all the knights, damsels and cleaving of helms.
Every time a knight went on a quest I kept expecting him to run into the knights who say "Ni!"This would be okay for an Arthurian newbie but if you've read other versions you could probably do without this one.
He followed Malory's structure and retained the original chapter titles, but he explored the psychological underpinning of the events, and tuned the use of language to sound natural and accessible to a Modern English speaker........Malory wrote the stories for and to his time.
There was nothing obscure, he wrote the clear and common speech of his time and country.
But that has changed—the words and references are no longer common property, for a new language has come into being.
Malory did not write the stories.
And with that, almost by enchantment the words began to flow.[5] Steinbeck aced this one.
It is incredibly neat that one of my writing idols translated Sir Thomas Malory's Arthurian tales from Middle English into modern English and then added a little bit to the stories where he felt there were gaps.
The best part for me was the final 60 pages, containing Steinbeck's personal letters discussing his translation.
Steinbeck goes into detail on his approach to editing and translating, the problems he is having in both regards, and how he plans to fix those issues.
Those pages in particular are a must read for anyone who has ever tried to edit or translate someone's work.

The show is a 'family friendly' retelling of the King Arthur legends, but with teenage/young adult characters.
So, I decided to do my research and read some of the original legends.
This book holds a collection of stories ranging from the life and death of Merlin, the marriage of King Arthur, the tales of silly and lusty knights, the wicked half-sister of King Arthur Morgan Le Fay, the noble tale of Sir Lancelot and so on.
Tis unfortunate that this book remains unfinished, for the ending is abrupt and I want to know what happens next!
3.75 I enjoyed this book so much when I was about eleven years old but upon rereading it, the same feeling just wasn't there.
The only chapter that I can truly say that I enjoyed was the last segment about Lancelot.
I found that the other parts just didn't really do it for me.
If you don't like long chapters, you may want to shy away from reading this book because the chapters are more like segments than anything else and can be anywhere from 8-100 pages.
I will, however, hold onto the fond memories I had of this book as an eleven year old.
He found his stride with Lancelot, as my edition (which I can't find) made plain by inclusion of his author's notes: letters, mostly, about his encounter with the story. I did pore over this, novel and notes. The early tales are skeletal, as if uncertain to depart from mere translation of Malory; that of Lancelot is amply fleshed out; although Balin and Balan stick in my mind too as intermediate in his storifying.
I love this quotation: "Arthur looked upward and he said, 'It’s a black day, a troubled day.'[Merlin replied,] 'It is a day, simply a day.
And I actually love that the unfinished book ends with Lancelot fleeing in bitter tears from his first intimate encounter with the queen.
I don't like Merlin in this book all that much.
I'd like to re-read Malory and this book chapter by chapter and see more particularly how Steinbeck has redacted, edited, added to, cut short, etc, Malory's work.
<< Nel cimitero presso la chiesa, nel punto più vicino all'altare maggiore, venne veduto un grande blocco di marmo e nel marmo affondava un'incudine entro la quale era conficcata una spada. In lettera d'oro stava scritto:chiunque estragga questa spada dal marmo e dall'incudine sarà Re di tutta l'Inghilterra. >>
What I loved about this book. beyond Steinbeck's literary style, is that it was left "unfinished" yet true to the title of "Noble Knights"...before the heart of Camelot was destroyed by an act of discovered betrayal...and Arthur remained with dignity and hope.
Read the review on my blog:http://thaliasbooks.tumblr.com/post/2...
It's not until the Triple Quest and Lancelot, the last two sections that Steinbeck completed before abandoning the work for reasons unknown, that the puppets ever feel like they become replaced with actual characters — Gawaine, vain and boastful, Kay, worn down by his duties' "thousand grains of sand", Lancelot, sad but noble.
(Thankfully, though they're only two sections, they actually take up more than half of the text that Steinbeck managed to complete.)The other way to look at it is as insight into Steinbeck himself and his writing process.
Even if we hadn't read the stories, the movie has extensively documented the exploits: knights, dames in distress, battles and enemies to face.
This is the first book I read by Steinbeck, although I understand that is not really his genre.
I found, however, an excellent review of the work of Malory, done with passion and a personal interest in the story.
Here there are all the noble virtues that characterize the medieval knights, but also some negative characteristic of a human being.
Excellent material to understand the way in which it was written the work are the author's letters to his publisher, found in the appendix.
I both loved and hated this book.
Steinbeck died before finishing it but ten years before his death he had stopped making progress on it because the research overwhelmed him and his publisher.
The more he dug into the various Arthur sources in England, the more conflicts and puzzles he found.
This was revealed in the lengthy appendix, a series of letters between Steinbeck and his publisher regarding the issues revealed by the research.
Since the fourth book in my series will have lots of content regarding Arthur, this will be a huge challenge for me but I am determined to take it on.
Steinbeck brings pretty much nothing fresh -- except his talent at telling stories directly -- to Arthurian legend.
And his talent at telling stories directly is actually a problem; half of the pleasure of these legends are in the trappings, the environment, and Steinbeck strips that clean away.Not to mention that once I stop basking in the fantasy aspects of it, I start wanting to, well, punch people in the face.
Which does not make me happy; I love these stories!
I do not want to punch them in the face!
really? I got through a bit of the first story "Merlin" and there was jack all that was new, he basically just took the legends and rewrote them but didn't seem to change anything except for some knights names. I couldn't even bother to finish it because I've read these before.
I didn't even know this book was ever written till I saw it here on good old Goodreads! Oh it was good, good, good! I love, love, love King Arthur as I have said many times before, and this book was food for my soul!
The book got better and better from there, and when I reached the end of The Noble Tale of Sir Lancelot (which was as far as Steinbeck got in the project), I wasn’t sure whether I wanted to laugh or cry, which is how I know I’ve read a really good book.The last 60 pages of the book consist of letters to his editors about his progress on the project, and these letters were meant to be cleaned up and put together as an introduction to the finished work.
I truly found the appendix the most inspiring and heartbreaking section of this book because, while he poured himself into it, the vessel into which he poured, remained unfinished.I don't know that I would recommend this to all, simply because I see many limitations on the appeal, had he finished his masterwork I have no doubt I would have insisted that all read it, but as it is, it is an insightful telling of King Arthur, set on a backdrop of one of the greatest American authors quest for his Holy Grail.
The work was eventually published posthumously in 1976, several years after his death.To be honest, the reason I decided to read this book was because of John Steinbeck.
Even with no expectations whatsoever, I'm still disappointed.This is the kind of book that I would have loved to read when I was nine years old.
I could fight men but I was defeated by marching numbers on a page.
So many sheep, so much bread, so many skins of wine, and has the salt been forgotten?
Sir Kay, you're the most reasonable character in the whole book (and it sounds like you need Arabic numerals).
One volume of the Harvard classics especially enchanted, Mallory’s Le Morte d’Arthur.
I loved that I couldn’t tell what some of the words meant without saying them out loud.
Steinbeck captured that same love of language, and the strange-familiar colorations of the Arthur legends, in “The Acts of Arthur and His Nobel Knights”.
This volume retells the Arthur stories that preceded the Morte.
These provide valuable insights into Steinbeck’s motivation for re-telling the tales, and into how he went about it.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who loves language, or to anyone who has ever been charmed by Courtly behavior and Knights errant.
He also fleshes out much of the story that might now be less familiar, including varied quests by numerous knights and Lancelot's adventures, which tend to be overshadowed by his betrayal of Arthur.
Because he was not able to complete it, Steinbeck's delightful presentation of the legends ends with his tantalizing suggestion in a letter to his agent that what he was planning to write about Arthur would be "strange and different." Steinbeck sought to introduce the Arthurian legends to contemporary readers whom he worried might otherwise get their understanding of the myths from comic books.
З кожним розділом книга оживає делі більше, герої стають усе глибшими, а історії сильніше захоплюють (не зважаючи на те, що я знаю, як вони розвиватимуться), а потім вона обривається на півслові, на повороті до трагедії. У даному виданні остання третина - листування Стейбека з видавцем та редактором, і воно виявилося таки же цікавим, як і сама книга, хоча і не дає відповіді на питання, чому ж вона залишилася незакінченою.
This is not a full review, but rather a warning for the unwary: This book was never completed and it leaves you hanging at a critical moment. Also, the author has taken many liberties with the original Thomas Mallory book, and he himself states in the appendix that the liberties he'd taken would have shocked Mallory.Just so y'all know.
Thoroughly enjoyed it. I particularly appreciated at how the author managed to - at times - seem to poke fun at the stories, but never stepped across the line.Amusing at times. heart-breaking at times. Sober at times.An outstanding read.
