https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77197.Assassin_s_Apprentice
I haven't read a lot of fantasy in the last decade, so the fact I've read 12 of Robin Hobb's books in the last 5 years says a lot about how much I enjoy reading her work.
The adventures of Fitz through three trilogies account for a big chunk of that reading.Robin Hobb can write a first person story with rare skill.
Some readers may find it too frustrating and may long for Fitz to break free of it, to drive his message home etc...
Reread this AGAIN because I am going to read all of the books up to date that are out!!! Hmmm.. guess I should show y'all my cool bookshelf of the books and some of my dragon figurines. Ah, maybe later 😘 Okay, well here it is...  These were the lessons in my assassin's primer. And more. Sleight of hand and the art of moving stealthily. Where to strike a man to render him unconscious. Where to strike a man so that he dies without crying out. Where to stab a man so that he dies without too much bl
As you can read on the blurb, Fitz wasn't born the proper way.But Fitz was allowed to stay with the stable master, Burrich, whom I loved very much.
Those of you that have read the book know what I mean.
Fitz father, Prince Chivalry never once met him.
Prince Verity is another character that I grew to love because of his kindness to Fitz and their relationship later on in the book.
I think this was a really good book to start out the trilogy.
If your looking for a journey with some good people than you will enjoy it.
Assassin’s Apprentice is the first book in the Farseer Trilogy, the first series out of five that encompassed Robin Hobb’s The Realm of the Elderlings series.
However, this doesn’t change my opinion that as a foundational start, the book does its job wonderfully.Picture: Assassin’s Apprentice by Dagmara MatuszakThe main character, FitzChivalry Farseer is a six years old bastard who’s learning to be an Assassin while at the same time living a harsh life of being hated by practically everyone just because of his birthright.
Overall, Assassin’s Apprentice is a great start to a series.
For a book that started out so slowly there certainly were a lot of intense and awesome scenes that had me hooked almost right from the beginning and if you ask me, it’s as good as impossible to read them without being swept away!
I mean in some way he’s Fitz father figure and it’s clear he only meant well, but boy the way he tried to raise him was so damn wrong sometimes.
I really liked his relationship with Fitz and I hope he’ll feel a lot better in the next book.
This book made me realize a number of things:1. I like the idea of killing people for fun and profit2. You can't trust your uncle3. I like men who whine a lot and play with dogs4. I would like to read people's minds, but I do not want them to read mine5. Poison is an interesting topic, and discussing it with strangers online can lead to tragic relationships with gay Nazis who live in other countriesIf you keep these things in mind, you will be able to enjoy this book more.
One of my all-time favorite series. I love it so much I have first edition hardbacks. Lovely, touching, dramatic. It has everything.
He is a royal bastard, and his dishonourable conception means that his father’s name is forever sullied; that much so that he was forced to abdicate the throne; thus, half the royal Farseer court already hates Fitz because he is, supposedly, the reason why the popular Prince had to retire from court life.
Instead of simply murdering Fitz, and ridding himself of a potential threat, he binds the boy to himself with unwavering loyalty.
This is such a great opening to the series and whilst it is already complicated for Fitz, it’s only going to get worse; this is merely the beginning of his life and his story.
Even better the second time around!
Also, for as much as people rave about this series, I was so surprised with Fitz's gift with animals!
Like using Wit, Skilling is also done telepathically, but instead of animals it is between humans, but we soon learn that using this ability in mass quantities taxes a person very much.Anyways, once Fitz is a little older, his grandpa on his father's side, you know, the King, gets Fitz to become a "King's Man", which is basically an assassin.
This is for sure a story about love and loyalty, and where people should put their trust.
I find a lot of fantasy authors are in love with the internalized conceptions of their worlds.
Robin Hobb has clearly lovingly created the world of the Six Duchies, and this love is echoed through the tale's device: born a bastard son to the king's heir, Fitz recalls growing up in the intense environment of court and his first mission as the king's assassin.
It's not the most original premise, but Hobb revels in the details of the world's class divide and trade routes and political alliances.
I don't mind a slow buildup, but the ideas here, while artfully portrayed, were still very much in a generic-court-fantasy mold...
Bullet points for this review because although Robin Hobb likes to ramble on..
A Summary of this book: -- Fitz's life sucks -- lots of winding and turning and taking an especially long time to get to the point -- lots of predictable plots but not knowing exactly how we'd get there While the writing is good, the story in this one is just ok.
I do feel I'll get more and more attached to her characters in each book.
I'll be doing a spoiler free review and discussion on my channel.
Hey, not so crazy in my book, but how in the world would I manage to be fair in a review?Truth be told, this series is my favorite of all times and I can't dissect my feelings.
◘ Because it's my 5th time reading it and I can't stop sobbing, I can't stop FEELING.◘ Because I don't care that it's slow paced, I don't care if Fitz is annoying and whiny sometimes, I don't fucking care.
Just go read this series and come plotting Regal's murder with me.For more of my reviews, please visit:
This tale starts with our main character, Fitz (age 6), being brought to the Farseer’s army outpost by his maternal grandfather and given to a soldier, who is told that he is King-in-Waiting Chivalry's bastard son.
The soldier brings him to the commander of the outpost, Prince Verity, who orders that he be given into the care of Burrich, Chivalry's stablemaster and right-hand man.
Men cannot grieve as dogs do. But we grieve for many years. Wow. This book really got under my skin. At its core, Assassin's Apprentice is a story about loneliness - about a lonely boy, the bastard son of the former crown prince, growing up in a kingdom that does not want him. Fitz grows up among servants and soldiers in the king's palace, working in the shadow of his grandfather and uncles as a stableboy. Working with dogs, he discovers a talent for the Wit, a mental ability that allows him to
Fitz grows up among servants and soldiers in the king's palace, working in the shadow of his grandfather and uncles as a stableboy.
One of my favorite lines came from Fitz's mentor, Chade, speaking of becoming the king's man: 
So while the book was a slow read with little danger or excitement, I wouldn't have enjoyed it as much had Hobb cut some of the imagery and dialogue.
Although he is often described by other characters, as well as the narrator, as a catalyst, Fitz generally does not drive the plot.
(for some funky reason, I'd feel weird about reading Robin Hobb on my Kindle, so I got the entire series in English paperbacks too.:pBuddy read with: *Kat (joins for book 2) *Damian*Joshua*Em*Lee(first timer, wooot!)*Erika, and I'm confident we'll catch up with...*DayDreamer ;)------------------------------------------------------Original review: January 2011Boy, if I had never found this book in a discount shop as a teen...
A few Hobb trilogies further along the way, this is where it all started.
I will just mention that while engrossed in the last chapters of the second book and then book three of this series, I actually started missing my train station.
Actual review: 4.5“Men cannot grieve as dogs do. But we grieve for many years.” 😢A prologue of sorts of an adventure that is yet to come. I cannot wait to see what happens next.Full review to come.
Think 'The Name of the Wind.' It's about our precious Fitz, a bastard, who has been brought up by someone who used to work closely with his father.
This is not the book to read if you're looking for a story that is fast-paced.
One random thing (not too random, since animals are key to the story) is that this book made me wish I had a dog.
And I am not an animal person at all, but the way Hobb wrote the relationships our main character, who I almost feel like is my son now, had with dogs in this story just made me want to tear up constantly.
Can you maybe, I don’t know, define what “this” is, on account of the fact that empathetic internet is, as of yet, at least still a few years away?)“This” is fully realized, well written and conceived, and faithful to some of the most tried and true fantasy tropes while simultaneously standing one very big one on its heads (namely, and I don’t think I’m spoiling anything that’s not in the title of the book here, that our main character, Fitz, is being trained to be an assassin, a line of work that is not generally considered sympatico vis-à-vis being a heroic paragon of virtue).
There are definitely a lot of recognizable fantasy archetypes present here: ✘ Underdog/Bastard MC ✘ Gruff Father Figure✘ Bratty Prince✘ Wise Old Master✘ Chosen OneBut I don't believe any one of them are written in a way that feels overdone.
I think perhaps the strict first person PoV is a bit damaging in this respect because we are limited to experiencing places as Fitz visits them, and because he is a child for a lot of the book he spends most of his time at Buckkeep.
It spends a lot of quality time developing Fitz through his adolescence, so much so that by the end you really do feel as though you've experienced years of his life.
Probably the most depressing fantasy trilogy I read (and this includes Thomas Covenant). Recommended for when you are too cheerful and want to lower your mood in the hurry. The bad guys are bad with no redeeming qualities (and doing bad things just because they are bad). The good guys have all the bad luck imaginable - and then some; they also love acting out of character.This is still entertaining read which kept me until the end.
After reading maybe a few too many YA fantasies, it was a breath of fresh air to delve into the world of Fitz, the assassin's apprentice.
It was complex and layered, the way I like my fantasies and, I suppose, my reading generally (other than the brain-candy romance cravings, which tend to attack me randomly and without prior warning).
It's the first in a series, so I'm sure those threads get wrapped up later, but for the most part I think this works reasonably well as a stand-alone novel.
Rating: 3.5 stars
Like Red-Ships, the memories come without warning, without mercy.An angry old man arrives at the gates of Buckkeep, capital of the Kingdom of the Six Duchies, dragging his six-year old grandson along.
And even though Cornwell in my opinion does it a lot better, Robin Hobb is also quite certainly a master of this art.The setting is not particularly complex or innovative, but one could say that it, like so many other aspects of this novel, grows more and more interesting for each single chapter.
I'm actually kind of glad that I waited as long as I did, if I'm honest, because in a way I think finishing this book required a patience and maturity on my part that I probably would have lacked had I tried to accomplish reading it years ago when it first started calling to me.Originally published in 1996, this definitely has a different feel to fantasy that is being published right now.
At times it bordered on too slow, but for what it all ends up lending to Fitz and the world, I think it's worth it.In some ways, this book ended up feeling like one long prologue to what I am positive will be an enormous fantasy adventure.
It is about a boy name Fitz who learns to become an assassin.
I think I took the "Assassin" part to heart, and forgot the "Apprentice".
You see him develop from a boy who was nobody without any confidence in himself into a man with confidence, strength, and determination.
During the climatic scenes I started questioning the book.
I figured there would be something crazy that happened, but I forgot one person that made me start questioning the corruption.
There are tons of questions that are left unanswered, and I need to read more.
I read THE FARSEER SAGA years ago and have since considered it one of my favorite fantasy epics.
Is he good enough to portray Fitz, one of my all-time favorite fantasy characters?
And… my stomach twisted… will Fitz be the same boy I came to care so much for so many years ago?Within minutes I was reabsorbed into the world of FitzChivalry Farseer, that insecure, lonely boy who has so much potential but, due to his illegitimate birth and his peculiar abilities with animals, never gets what he deserves.
Fitz was just as I remembered and Paul Boehmer portrayed him (and all the other characters) beautifully.
But I’m going to love every minute of it.Read more Robin Hobb book reviews at Fantasy literature.
It had everything a great epic fantasy needs - in depth and descriptive world building, epic landscapes, magic, assiassination and more.It centres around Fitz - a young lad who is the bastard child of the King-in-waiting, Prince Chivalry.
As expected he makes enemies very quickly - but what also sets him apart is his ability to connect his mind with animals - he can sense their feelings and emotions and therefore become closer to them than a normal human could.He is placed into the care of Kings man - Burrich, a man who takes care of the hounds and horses of Prince Chivalry.And so the background is set for a tale where Fitz goes through a variety of tasks.
DNF @ 30% - twice. May return to.
(view spoiler)[ Years later Chilvary got assassinated and the wife felt bad for never being there for Fitz and tried to make up for it (hide spoiler)]The royal family have a gift called the skill that enable them invade people’s mind and compel them to do things amongst other things, Fitz have the skill too.Fitz grew up at the palace but never acknowledge as a royal till he turned 11 and the King decided it best to train him and make him a royal assassin.
“I think myself cured of all spite, but when I touch pen to paper, the hurt of a boy bleeds out with the sea-spawned ink, until I suspect each carefully formed black letter scabs over some ancient scarlet wound. Shall I set them all down on fine paper, only to create from them flame and ash? Perhaps.”  Oh these words resonated deep and loud and made sense to me in ways I couldn’t explain even if I tried. But let’s not get ahead of ourselves!First off, thanks to two lovely ladies, Virginia &amp
Hobb does a fabulous job of shaping up the character of our nameless bastard, who comes to be known as Fitz.
At times, things start to feel to be getting a little mundane but all that changes and there is a definite change in pace as soon as Chade makes an appearance.
Like Fitz is put through everything you can possibly imagine and towards the end where you almost start to think that this might change things for him, she surprises you by hurting Fitz again.
And it definitely makes it a more engaging read, gives you a character you root for.
