https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5936.The_Poetry_of_Pablo_Neruda


I Liked Pablo Neruda's writing, I believe his raw passion speaks to all of us on a universal level.
And I in these lines say:Like this I want you, love,love, Like this I love you,as you dressand how your hair lifts upand how your mouth smiles,light as the waterof the spring upon the pure stones,Like this I love you, beloved..."-Pablo Neruda
I no longer love her, that's certain, but how I loved her.My voice tried to find the wind to touch her hearing.Another's.
Like my kisses before.Her voice.
This is definitely my first book of Pablo's but not the last.
LOVE HIM...an excerpt from my favorite poem...I no longer love her, that's certain, but how I loved her.My voice tried to find the wind to touch her hearing.Another's. She will be another's. Like my kisses before.Her voice. Her bright body. Her inifinite eyes.I no longer love her, that's certain, but maybe I love her. Love is so short, forgetting is so long.Because through nights like this one I held her in my armsmy soul is not satisfied that it has lost her.

And mixed in with this earthy prose is an appreciation for the subtle, fleeting moments that last only in quick impressions and memories of wanting and desire.
I want to eat the sunbeam flaring in your loveliness, The nose, sovereign of your arrogant face, I want to eat the fleeting shade of your lashes, And I walk hungry, smelling the twilight Looking for you, for your hot heart, Like a puma in the barren wilderness.One thing I will say about this particular copy though is that while it is certainly the most comprehensive edition available to English speakers, it is not, perhaps, the best translated.
I have loved Pablo Neruda since I was fifteen years old and have fell in love with his beautiful expressions countless times. I believe his raw passion speaks to all of us on a universal level. It's so human and bare, it is his monument left to us. This is an amazing collection which begins with his early work to his retrospective years, it shows you this amazing evolution of his writing and how powerful it becomes.
This book is the quintessential poetry book. Neruda is untouchable and this compilation is the best. If my house was burning and I could only run out with one book it would be a close call between this and Lorca's compilation. You could be stranded on a desert island with this book for the rest of your life and you would have a smile on your face. Y ahora, pido silencio.

I've read the epic poems - Iliad, Odyssey, Gilgamesh.
But modern era poetry usually leaves me cold--too much angst and unrequited love.
Ode to Common Things got me into Neruda and remains one of my all time favorites.
He is mostly famous for his love poems; and, while they are extraordinary, they are not IMHO his best.
Neruda sees the epic and timeless connections in...well...in everything.
Spoons and salt shakers are the common man's connection with history and heaven.
I wish I was fluent in Spanish so I could read this in the original as I have no doubt something is lost in the translation.
I’m not sure how I managed to get through life to this point with only having read a couple of Pablo Neruda’s poems, so it was with great delight at a recent Lifeline book fair I picked up this single volume of his works, around 600 poems.
I’m not going to name them because I suspect that next time I pick up this book and dip into the poems those favourites, like the tide, may have changed.
I would highly recommend this collection to anyone who does not read poetry normally as Neruda is largely an accessible poet with an eye for detail.
پذیرای توامگر نمیسوزیبر دردهای من بیتوته ای کنو خود را بر بال های من سنجاق کنبال های من شاید تو را به آرزوهایم نزدیک کندتن زدن هایش شاید تن پوش درد توست،تو تنها یافته ای هستی کههستی با مناز زمانی که اندوهانم را گم کردمببوسمگازم بگیرآتشم بزنزیرا من تنها به خاطرغرق شدن چشمان نرینه امدر آب های بی نهایت چشمان مادینه اتبه این سیاره پای نهاده ام
"The sad wind goes on slaughtering butterflies..." The word "butterfly" is such a beautiful word in almost all the languages I know. In Spanish "mariposa", French "papillon", Danish "sommerfugl" and Swedish "fjäril". Only in Germany could they call it Schmetterling and then on top of it give the name to a fighter plane...
I have been reading it on and off for a fairly long time but I still have not finished reading all of it, having skimmed through some parts and skipped others altogether primarily for two reasons: the difficulty, sometimes, in establishing the context, and the problems associated with the language barrier.There's always this thing about poetry and the milieu in which it is written- some poems draw only on shared human experience and so need little by way of a background- as with a great deal of love poetry, while for others, the entire meaning can hinge on the reader's awareness or ignorance of its context; the former therefore tends to be more durable and has broader appeal.
a 1000 pager. Took me a year of it sitting bedside.
I have written poetry off and on all my life but so few poems have I kept.
I am not a lover of poetry, nor do I really understand most of it.
I came up on this book at a bookstore and found that I couldn't put it down.
I would begin to walk out of the store, just to find myself back with this book, over and over again, so I had to own it.
It inspires me when I need inspiration to write, but I don't consider myself a poet.
It is obvious why he is so well loved as a poet.
I didn't particularly enjoy Neruda's work. Something that specifically made me shy away from Neruda is that he didn't seem to write poetry. He seemed as rather someone possessed by politics and that didn't add to his art.
Three words: Neruda.
My family makes fun of me beacause I have something akin to a crush on him, but, hey, a girl can dream!
I read a few every night before I go to bed, and it was perfect.
Okay, so you know how when you write something, or you read something, and there's this line that makes you go, "whoa" ?
Usually it's the first or last line.
With Neruda, every other line is a holy-shiz-that's-the-perfect-way-to-say-that line.
A why-didn't-i-think-of-putting-it-that-way stanza.
If you go through life without reading one of Neruda's "Odes to..." I feel sorry for you.
Read.
This book was a gift from Jared, who quoted this from it in his inscription:"I will bring you happy flowers from the mountains, bluebells, dark hazels, and rustic baskets of kisses. I want to do with you what spring does with the cherry trees."
A friend of mine composes songs on piano with Pablo Neruda's poems as lyrics and listening to his songs I became intrigued with Pablo Neruda. I'm yet to read more of his work but the little I have read (and heard) has been promising.
You can read my review here: http://embracingmybooks.blogspot.be/2...
they dont make men like Neruda anymore
Beautiful, hits me in places where few poets have managed to reach.
this man is so human i think he feels more than i do, or at least he's better at putting it in words than i am, so that i become more sensitive to my condition.
i also didn't know i had the ability to continuously read such a thick compilation of poetry - normally it's in smaller bursts, but now i have more confidence to do the same to other poets that i've had a taste of.
wouldn't read again simply because there's no time, but it would be a treat to open up to a random page once in a while and take in what's there.
Very inspiring, soul touching and soul shattering in the same time, Dark with a bitter sweet narration
Deep and magical, Neruda's poems create a whole new world of love, undisclosed desires, longing and melancholy, which will start lingering in your mind and soul the moment you read them.
Neruda's poetry is absolutely EXQUISITE. As this was the first ever poetry book I picked up, I wasn't sure how to go through the comprehensive collection, so I hopscotched and finished Residence, Canto General and Isla Negra in the end as these looked more serious or long sections. (And my mind always like it easy and short).The following lines from "Ode to The Book I" strikes a chord in my heart and I believe Neruda lived what he wrote and he sure did love well.   I’ve learned to take life from
As this was the first ever poetry book I picked up, I wasn't sure how to go through the comprehensive collection, so I hopscotched and finished Residence, Canto General and Isla Negra in the end as these looked more serious or long sections.
(And my mind always like it easy and short).The following lines from "Ode to The Book I" strikes a chord in my heart and I believe Neruda lived what he wrote and he sure did love well.
I think that very often poems are so complex that it is sometimes hard to understand, but Neruda's poem uses so much repetition that it is easy to understand exactly what the poem is about.
In every stanza of the poem Neruda uses repetition to emphasize on how much he loves this person.
I would love to use poetry with repetition and metaphors in my classroom.
I think that by showing children that poetry is simply about writing what they truly feel using great details I will be able to have a classroom full of poets.
Türkçe çevirisi yüzünden kitabı bitirmek için resmen çabaladım. Düzgün bir çevirisini bulursam tekrar okumak isterim.
The book I read, by René de Costa, an academic text dividing Neruda's life and poetry into chapters, is listed as a separate edition of a collection of the man's entire work?...
The book *I* read was interesting, but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who doesn't love both Neruda and literary analysis.
It took me forever to get through, but I'd say it was worth it just to learn more about the man's politics, and to realize that almost all of the stuff I have read by him comes from the same period of his writing that is really only a small part of his entire career.
