https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17349.The_Demon_Haunted_World
In this book, Dr. Carl Sagan tackles one of the key problems facing our time, as well as repeated throughout the history of our civilization, and that is the propensity for humanity to delve into our darkest superstitions and most bleak behaviors when our knowledge or ego is challenged.
At a time when every facet of our daily lives revolves around technology; when each and every human being lives under the threat of annihilation by nuclear weapons; when communications are global but subject to being monitored in violation of the founding documents of our nation (granted this is a problem that would occur years after Sagan’s death, yet it’s exactly the type of behavior Sagan speaks of), we find that critical thought wanes in the population of our own nation, not to mention that of the entire world.
المراجعة عصية على التلخيص بنفس قدر أهمية الكتاب للمهتمين بالعلوم **"المنهج العلمي على ما يبدو عليه من الغلظة والسماجة لهو أهم إلى حد بعيد من مكتشفات العلم." ذُهلت عندما وجدت الكاتب يَسْتَهِل الكتاب بالحديث بجدية لتفنيد مزاعم الأطباق الطائرة؛ فالكاتب -أي كارل ساجان- هو أحد أشهر العلماء في التاريخ, ليس فقط لإنجازاته العلمية, بل لدوره الأدبي في نشر العلم للعامة, حيث يعد أكبر نقطة تحول حدثت في هذا المجال, وبأسلوبه الأدبي الشيق استطاع أن يسجل رقم قياسي كأعلى نسبة مشاهدة في التاريخ لعرض تلفزيوني عن بر
كما ويميل الأولاد إلى اضطهاد المتفوقين منهم حتى لا يظهروا بمظهر سيء مقارنة بهم, ولكن هذا لن يجعل عالمنا مكاناً أفضل**يقول فرانسيس بيكون أن الإنسان	يؤمن إيماناً وثيقاً بما يعتقد أنه صادقولكن كيف نتأكد من أن أمر ما صادق حتى لا نكون مثل ضحايا الأطباق الطائرة؟يستشهد ساجان بقاعدة على لسان شارلوك هولمز وهي أنه من الأخطاء الكبرى أن يقوم المرء بالتنظير قبل أن تكتمل المعطياتثم يسرد لنا مثالا لتطبيق هذه القاعدة,:""يعيش في جراجي تنين ينفث النار", لنفترض أنني أقول لك هذا القول المؤكد بشكل جاد, فمن المؤكد أنك سوف تود أن تتحقق من ذلك, وأن ترى بنفسك, إذ كانت هناك على مر العصور قصص لا تحصى عن التنين, دون أن يوجد دليل واقعي واحد عليها.
Always insightful, it seems that Sagan just wanted to watch the world learn. I should've read this at 14. Honestly, this should probably be required high school reading for everyone. It illustrates clearly the many and varied personal and societal benefits gained from applying the methods of science to every corner of our thinking. The methods are the important part, the findings are just icing on the cake. It covers the dangers of unchecked ideologies and the requirement for both objectivity and wonder. Almost no topic is left unexamined. I really can't recommend this book enough.
When he looks at the world, he sees a place filled with demons - not literally, of course - the demons of irrationality, superstition and an unfortunate willingness on the part of people to believe in things that just aren't so.This book is about the advocacy of skepticism and critical thinking.
It horrifies me that evil men are still able to use fear and superstition to convince people that they should kill in the name of God. And it saddens me that so many people have given control of their lives over to a deity rather than taking responsibility for it themselves.Sagan's premise in this book is simple: knowledge is better than ignorance.
Interestingly, Carl Sagan holds up science and democracy as mutually supporting concepts.
This concept is developed further by Timothy Ferris' excellent book, The Science of Liberty: Democracy, Reason, and the Laws of Nature.Sagan spends a lot of time explaining the reported sightings of UFO's and aliens.
On the other hand, if I ask something like 'Should we be good?' I almost always get an answer."Sagan also quotes many of the letters that he received, some hilarious, and others quite sad.
The first difference, Sagan explains, is that quantum theory works; it makes extremely accurate predictions that can be observed and measured.
But Sagan goes on -- and on and on -- about the evils of unexamined credulity, and how so much of what we believe is contextually determined and not logically deduced, and then he turns around and says 'therefore empiricism is the only truth.' And then completely fails to deal with the indeterminacy problem -- all the ways empiricism is also an ordinal choice, not some universal baseline against which to measure all intellectual thought.
And it's written in this snotty, "now you see the error of your ways," tone when, you know, I sort of suspect the Weekly World News readership is not also snapping up this book.
Sagan has been a hero of mine since I saw Cosmos years and years ago.
In this sense Sagan turns the standard argument on its head, rather than faith based beliefs offering comfort, they actually present a series of demons and therefore make your life a much more frightening place than it would have been if you had just confronted reality in the first place.In a world overflowing with pseudo-science and new age madness Sagan offers a candle in the dark - and one that doesn't require you to dance around naked while chanting to the moon goddess.
Scattered around the island you'll find audio logs containing quotes on science and religions from around the world and across time, and these sometimes gives you abstract hints on how to solve the puzzles.
And this is where I first heard about Demon-Haunted World and Sagan:  So next I want to present this problem.
[...]Carl Sagan has a good piece in, umm, Demon-Haunted World?, where he talks about science as a profound source of spirituality.
Demon-Haunted World left me with the feeling that science is a very fragile field, at the mercy of much bigger forces in society that might topple or corrupt it.
I kept expecting the science to start at any page, but I got tired of reading accusations that the Weekly World News and Beavis and Butt-Head are sources of ignorance and misunderstanding.
I couldn't risk wasting my time reading another 100 pages of more of the same.The last time I thought that WWN might be reporting real news I was maybe 11 (although I did buy their Saddam and Bin Laden wedding spectacular issue, but only for the pictures).
فإن المنصف لا ينكر ما فيه من متعة وثراء وفائدةوإن كان كثير من الكتب جديراً أن يُقرأ بعين ناقدة؛ فإن هذا الكتاب أحق بذلكيتناول الكتاب بالانتقاد، كثيراً من أمثلة الدجل والعلم الزائف، مثل الأطباق الطائرة، والتنجيم، واختطاف الفضائيين للبشر، والحياة على الكواكب الأخرى، والحضارات القديمة المزعومة مثل قارة أتلاتنس - الغارقة في الوهم - وغير ذلك من الأمثلة المتعددةفي الكتاب كذلك حث على العلم، وانتصار له، ومناقشة للأساليب الفاسدة في تدريسه وتعليمه، وكذا الأساليب والأمور الصحيحة في تعليمه وترويجهوهو يرسّخ عند قارئه على طول الكتاب وعرضه، مبدأ الشك وتمحيص الوقائع؛ للخلوص للعلم الحق ودحض الزيفأما العين الناقدة التي أشرتُ إليها؛ فعلى ما في الكتاب من مزايا، فإن فيه أموراً لا يرضاها المسلم ذو الدين..
If Richard Dawkins' The God Delusion is a nuclear bomb in the atheist arsenal, Carl Sagan's The Demon-haunted World is an anti-personnel mine.Where Dawkins goes for maximum destruction, piling the misery and mockery on those he's battling, Sagan doesn't even acknowledge his enemy.
He offers lessons in detecting fallacy (or "baloney," to use Sagan's technical term) and how to avoid it in our own arguments.
I wonder, though, if Sagan's plan is too subtle to really make a difference.
I wonder if Dawkins' preference for arguments of mass destruction is more effective.
Whether Sagan's weapons have taken any theist casualities or not, it is a wonderful book about skepticism.
As I see it the scientific method has to be one of the greatest innovations of the human species.So another aspect I love about Sagan is his compassionate and respectful methods in trying to guide people towards a more rational critical thinking methodology.
He is respectful, humble, and kind, and I think that is a beautiful way to try and open peoples' minds and guide them towards the value of critical thinking, grounded skepticism, and honest dialogue.
This book extolls the value of skepticism, critical thinking, and the scientific method.
Sagan attempts to answer these important questions.This book is very readable.
He reminds us of the importance of not confusing cause and effect, questioning claims that cannot be tested, requiring evidence to support assertions, and remaining skeptical about authoritative statements, especially if monetary gain is involved.We are bombarded daily with outrageous claims (click bait, anyone?) urging us to simply believe without scrutiny, so healthy skepticism is becoming increasingly more important in our inter-connected world.
Even though some of the references are dated, this book contains an important and still relevant message on the value of critical thinking skills.
. . . every question is a cry to understand the world. In a nutshell, Sagan valiantly attempts to understand why people believe weird stuff, then explains why they shouldn't. I particularly enjoyed the several excellent chapters on the importance of literacy and education. There's also a probing (Sorry!) look into alien abductions.I think this quote, included in the book, sums everything up nicely:[I]gnorance more frequently begets confidence than does knowledge: it is those who know little, an
. every question is a cry to understand the world.
In a nutshell, Sagan valiantly attempts to understand why people believe weird stuff, then explains why they shouldn't.
I particularly enjoyed the several excellent chapters on the importance of literacy and education.
There's also a probing (Sorry!) look into alien abductions.I think this quote, included in the book, sums everything up nicely:[I]gnorance more frequently begets confidence than does knowledge: it is those who know little, and not those who know much, who so positively assert that this or that problem will never be solved by science.CHARLES DARWIN,Introduction, The Descent of Man
“We’ve arranged a global civilization in which most crucial elements profoundly depend on science and technology. We have also arranged things so that almost no one understands science and technology. This is a prescription for disaster. We might get away with it for a while, but sooner or later this combustible mixture of ignorance and power is going to blow up in our faces.” (p. 26)  The omen above was put to print in 1995 and echoed throughout Carl Sagan’s prolific career as both practitione
Dr. Sagan passed away the year after releasing The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark, and in the decades that have come and gone since his oracular swan song, the American electorate seems as awash as ever in pseudoscience and superstition.
In The Demon-Haunted World, Sagan continued this saga, with his inimitable style intact, but with a dire focus on communicating how science undergirds the modern world, its co-dependency with democracy and, amid the tenured struggle for progress and survival, is so often overshadowed by uncritical thinking and politicized agenda.The MethodThe uninitiated often maintain a warped view of science, that of an arcane discipline requiring superheroic intellect out to devour devout beliefs.
He condemns everything that does not stand up to science's demonstrable standards (whether such application is appropriate or not) and then....he violates the same standards time and again in his 'logical' arguments to promote his first-love.Example: early on he says that no religion or psychic has ever foretold the future accurately, but that science has.
(This is accurate, but it's not exactly tommorrow's Derby winner, now is it?) Later in the book he lists several predictions he made via 'scientific reasoning' that turned out to be false.My point: he condemns all paranormal experience and religion (Show me God. You can't?
I downloaded the audio because the narration duties are shared between Seth Macfarlane and Cary Elwes, with an introduction by Sagan's last wife in her own voice.
I suspect the whole fake news thing may have inspired it!) Sagan takes on many issues of pseudoscience, at times directly debunking, at other times suggesting the logical questions to ask that might lead to better conclusions.
This was a great pick for Science September!"We cannot have science in bits and pieces!""If we have no idea of the answer, we can...
Sagan did, and because of that, he understood the appeal of simple explanations and answers, and dedicated a big chunk of his time to present the reality of our universe in a way most people could understand.
And that is The Demon-Haunted World in a nutshell: a wonderful presentation of our surroundings based on the principle that startling claims should be supported by evidence that can be tested and challenged.Interestingly, when this book first appeared, many Americans believed that they were at risk of alien abduction, aliens were reportedly creating crop circles in England, and committing improper acts on mysteriously unmarked adults throughout the world.
If you really want to read scathing breakdowns of religious assertions, any philosophy book in the past 250 years will give it to you better that this comparatively sympathetic author, whose main interest lies in the psychology of our beliefs, rather than their truth-values.I note this in order to draw attention to the real nature of Sagan's book: It's a rare and public advocacy of the power of scientific thinking to change our lives for the better.
Adamın biri bir üflüyomuş aman da neler oluveriyormuşlara inanmayın.
Yani en imkansız şeyleri, ilahi bir şekilde bir yerlerde birileri tarafından yapılabilir olduğunu duymak çok hoşuna gidiyor insanların.
İnanın böyle saçmalıklara sorgulamadan inanmak hiç birine inanmamaktan çok daha tehlikeli bir durum.3.
Hemen söyleyeyim çok detaya inmeden en fazla yaşayanı 30 sene....Ya da "Hapşırınca neden çok yaşa denir biliyomusuuuunn?
5. Kitapta çok güzel bir hikayecik var.
Boya tutmaz."Bana önerebileceğiniz daha çok yöntem var.
Sadece ben görüyorum ve size var olduğunu söylüyorum.
Peki böyle bir ejdere inananınız oldumu hiç?
My first Sagan book was Cosmos, which led me to this one.
It really opened my eyes to how important science is, and the underlying principles of science, and simultaneously how organized religion is virtually 100% philosophically opposed to science.Religion: Don't think, don't reason, don't use logic.
Our holy book written centuries ago by primitive tribes with no knowledge of science is the last word on everything, even if there is overwhelming scientific evidence today at odds with it.Science: Think, reason, gather scientific evidence via repeatable experiments.
Question, demand proof, but accept all the evidence, and the conclusions that follow, even if it overturns your most cherished prior beliefs.I will always be grateful to Carl Sagan for opening my eyes.
Carl has written an interesting book here, he has a brilliant sense of humour and having a chapter in the middle with some of the letters he got from his "fans?" was a touch of class, just lightens the mood a bit for the second half, I do find it amazing that some of these people were actually able to write.This is one of the most thought provoking books I've had the pleasure to read, Sagan (autocorrect changes it to Satan...
فعليك أن تثبت صحة قضيتك في مواجهة النقد المتسم بالخبرة والعزمدائما ما كان يدعو كارل للنقد البناء،، لذلك حتى المنهج الشكي معرَّض للنقد ومع ذلك فالعجز الرئيسي الذي أراه في حركة الشك يكمن فيما يرتبط بها من: "نحن" في مواجهة "الآخرين"، أي ذلك الإحساس بأننا نحتكر الحقيقة؛ وأن أولئك الآخرين الذين يؤمنون بكل المذاهب أو المبادئ الحمقاء إنما هم معتوهون؛ وأنك إذا كنت متعقلا فلسوف تصغى إلينا، وإلا فلا نجاة لك، وهذا كلام غير بناء، إذ إنه لا ينقل الرسالة، ويحكم على معتنقي الشك بأن يظلوا دائما في وضع الأقلية، بينما المعالجة المترفقة لهذا الأمر التي تعترف منذ البداية بأن الجذور الإنسانية للدجلنة والخرافة قديمة يمكن أن تكون أكثر قبولا إلى حد بعيد.
Sagan has offered here a strong case for not only science, but for education in general.
Perhaps it depends on your point of view.Sagan was more open-minded than many others in his field.
Skepticism is leveled toward science itself rather than toward such alternative facts.
He notes there is no scientific evidence against these things, but read correctly the evidence points away from them.
Sagan notes that they should be considered, but put into place against better hypotheses.An appropriate magnum opus for one of the great minds of the last century, this book stands as a testament to skeptical but not close-minded thinking.
In his characteristic congenial, non-threatening, well-studied, literate and abundantly clear way, Carl Sagan explains the importance of critical thinking, science and education.
I spent a long time in this book, and each page presented at least one brilliantly-stated quotable (many of our favorite Sagan-isms originate here): something to stop and think about, or a topic I needed to look up in more detail.
One cannot help but occasionally hear Carl Sagan's friendly, sedated-Kermit-the-Frog voice reading various passages - especially the ones heavy with philosophical import or gazing with us in awe at the wonders of the cosmos.I can't think of anyone I would not recommend this to.
Every human should read this book.
I was SO excited to read this book: I was under the impression that Sagan systematically explained in reasonable and scientific terms some of the myths and phenomena present in Western culture, and I thought it would be interesting to see how these things came about.That's not what it is.
It would be fine if UFOs and aliens were one phenomenon he was going to debunk - or, if not debunk, at least caution against believing without further scientific proof - but that is the whole book.
For, when a popular scientist writes a book, his readership is more than likely to consist, in the main, of reasonable and skeptical people; thus, when he spends the entirety of the work attempting to inculcate the scientific attitude, he is in the position of a musician performing at a music school—most of the audience will consist of other musicians.
I’d like to think that this book fell into the hands of several UFO enthusiasts and believers in the supernatural, and that Sagan was able to convince them.
These are quite literally the last public words of the greatest scientific communicator who has ever lived:Education on the value of free speech and the other freedoms reserved by the Bill of Rights, about what happens when you don’t have them, and about how to exercise and protect them, should be an essential prerequisite for being an American citizen—or indeed a citizen of any nation, the more so to the degree that such rights remain unprotected.
As an ordinary non-scientific person, it is common to perceive information through a two dimension.
For example why do people believe in memes that circulate on the web at face value?
Or another example is why do people believe in pseudo science like - astrology, when there is no actual proof that it even exists.
Carl Sagan covers the reasoning behind why our culture values unscientific rationale quite extensively.
Sagan also explains that clear scientific thinking goes hand in hand with skepticism about religion and that science can only rise with more secular thinking.
