https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50930.The_Mark

"The Mark" reads more like a screenplay than a traditional book.
Most mid list writers who are writing the latest Star Trek and Star Wars novels are light years beyond the weak story telling of "The Mark." (Weak storytelling does not make the cut with Star Trek and Star Wars novels.) I do not understand the high ratings and praise this book, and it's series, has received.
(Reading books with good narration and description is a start.
"The Mark," the 8th book in the Left Behind series, is definitely the best one so far, in my opinion.
For starters, the suspense definitely picked up, where I felt it was lacking in some of the other books.
The dialogue between the characters was also much more believable than in some of the other books.
Character development in this book also took a huge leap forward.
There are also some heart-wrenching scenes in this book that force you to contemplate: would you pay the ultimate price for your faith?
4.5/5 I really liked this one! The plot was generally fast and I am so happy about the new believer! Looking forward to the next!
Nicolae is tightening his grip over the planet erecting statues of himself and demanding that people worship it.
He also demands that the people receive a mark that will allow them to do business.
Once a person has received the mark they are aligned with the devil and will be going to hell when he is finally sent there.
It is enough to chill the blood and the scenes in this book will affect you emotionally.Dr. LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins provide a fictional background for the real events that the final book of The Bible, Revelation, speak about: the end times.
This book was the 8th installment in the Left Behind Series and by far my favorite and most intense book in the series. Each character in this book have intense and interesting stories to tell. A great continuation to a great series never leaving you with a dull or boring moment. Pros IntenseSuspenseClift hangersCan't but the book downCharacter / plot interactionsConsNothing
Starting this review is well, easy to say the least.
I started reading the first book in this wonderful series just as soon as I heard about them.
Being from a christian home life growing up and as well as my husband and family this was a no brainier.
I am going to do one review including the whole series.
From the first page of the first book to the last page in the last book, I was not able to put these books down.
This series, although some would call fictional, I believe are very close to what will:To read more of my review: https://breathoflifebookreviews.blogs...
It is a Christian series based on the Bible, a religious book, and it is taking place AFTER the Rapture, when it is a most important time to have someone believe in God as quickly as possible and not die a non-believer.
The book itself starts off with the "resurrection" of Carpathia himself, now actually Satan, and basically the battle begins (no more mister nice guy).
I've already seen questions to my own personal Tsion and as soon as I am done with the series, I will be reading Revelations.
It has been an arduous task, but I've finished Book 8 of Left Behind.
The Antichrist has popped back to life after a show-stopping head-wound and has once again taken his place at the world's helm.
Everybody is headed toward a mandatory "mark of the beast" (an injected identity chip) and our heroes are trying to figure out how to avoid it.
In other news: I love how some guy can basically rule the entire planet, a place that is full of creatures that demonstrably cannot agree on anything, much less one dude to rule them all.
Anyway, this book made me want to drill a hole through my head.
hahahah (view spoiler)[I think I just noticed for the first time that the bottom right corner of the "circuit board" on the cover turns into an "angry eyeball"!
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[It is funny, but now it seems like the authors are trying to set up Hannah Palemoon with David Hassid while trying to keep the "sparks" alive between Rayford and Leah with Hattie thrown in to the mix.I did think it was cringeworthily funny that Hattie automatically assumed Rayford wanted her to engage Chaim in a sexual relationship to help Chaim out.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[I thought the martyr scenes were pretty powerful.
I enjoyed this book a bit more than some of the others in the series. I found myself starting to like several of the characters including Tsion Ben-Judah, Chaim Rozenzweig, Leah and Zeke. I continued to find the story line fascinating as the prophecies of Scripture unfold.
much better writing, but still seems racist and sexist.
The dialogue was, sometimes hard to follow; I had to re-read pages just to try to grasp on what was being said and understanding the outcome of the conversation.Oh, I got it.
Who in their right mind does just left justification for the text of a book?
Open any book to any page and tell me if the text on that page is full justification or not.It was so hard to read this story, because of this.
Our eyes are trained to read from left to right; top to bottom.
Stop doing left justification and do full justification.It's a book to recommend, only if you've got time on your hands.
So the antichrist is in control and all have to worship him and his statue, and take his mark.
If you don't take the mark not only can you not buy and sell (kind of amazing that the Bible foretold all those centuries ago that there would be the technology - i.e. computer chips and scanners - that could actually make this happen) but you will have your head chopped off.
Believers have set up a huge underground market for buying and selling but of course the beast's police are everywhere.
Nestled deep in the series, The Mark takes a single event, and stretches it in to a relatively short novel.
The branding of belief has been central to the Christian forces for several books in the Left Behind series and with The Mark it now becomes Satan's tool of choice.
Ultimately, The Mark has a few plot elements which are important to the series and if this book was skipped you would be up to date by reading the first few pages of Desecration (book nine), just like watching a soap opera.
This series just keeps getting better and better. I was glad to see that Rayford is find his natural leader status again. All while I find Buck is becoming a much more main character as he really comes into his own.It sends chills through me to think of being forced to bear the mark of the beast.As an aside, I really enjoying seeing the growth of Kenny, especially with characters like Tsion. That child adds a lighthearted aspect that this story sometimes needs due to the heaviness of the content of the story.
The Mark of the beast is being administered around the world to Carpathia loyalists, those who are steadfast in their love for Jesus are put to death by guillotine. The Trib force gains a new member who was forced to receive the Mark by his loyalist father, what does this mean for Chang's soul? More danger and peril and evil in this book, along with the beginning of a trip to Jerusalem and Petra to save Orthodox Jews. Onto book 9, Desecration
In my experience, the best books are the hardest to write reviews for.
This book is no exception.
Oh it was so good.
"The Mark" grabbed me and just wouldn't let go.
I've become so invested in these characters that I feel loss when I lose one of them.
The events are described so vividly that I feel as if I were there.
The authors have a way of turning the horrific events into things of hope.
I actually got chills at a few places-- it's just so real!
I have learned so much from this book.
In my opinion this is the best out of the 13 books in the entire series. One of the most suspenseful, you won't be able to put it down. This one is also most touching, and it will get tears out of you. And it will leave you craving more!
Sometimes I wonder if given the opportunity, I would give my life for my Lord. So many people did in this book and it seems sad, but they went on to something much better. It gives me something to think about.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Great book, great series.
I didn’t like the violence in this book and I know that’s the point but it was kind of disturbing. I guess that’s the point also. These books are starting to have a feel of unreality.
this series is so eyeopening. i can't wait to get to the next one
The continuing last days saga. The beast begins marking the people. Still interesting.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Review by L.T. : "An interesting action book about the Antichrist's mark and the consequences that come to the believers who refuse it."
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Another one Done.
The fictional drama regarding the author's perception of the tribulation period. It kind of makes you think!
