https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8428195-entwined
I will make a Mean Girls reference.And that is to say, how do I even begin to explain Entwined?I've grown accustomed to the constant shit storm that seems to blow my a way 90% of the time that I read a YA novel, so, suffice to say, I was more than surprised when reading Entwined.The novel is based on the fairy tale of The Twelve Dancing Princesses, or, The Shoes That Were Danced To Pieces, but with, as all YA novels promise in their usually lacking summaries: A Special Twist!I have come to fear the words, 'a', 'special', and 'twist', separately, but especially together.
This book is told from Azalea’s perspective, but each sister’s lives were entwined so much you always caught a glimpse of all the sisters no matter who the story was focusing on at the moment.Now for the romance.
Even Clover, the shyest of the bunch finds love with an unsuspecting man.Entwined is a divinely beautiful fairytale full of magic and love and humor.
If you love fairytales, of any kind, READ THIS BOOK!!
Glory in it, swoon over it, laugh at it, smile, love, lose yourself in the magic and enchantment.
I need to re-read Wildwood Dancing to cleanse my brain of the mess that is Entwined.
That idea is the description and significance of the Entwine, a fictional court dance where the gentleman and lady begin at opposite ends of a sash.
The gentleman tries to 'entwine' the lady, while the lady spends the dance avoiding such capture.
At nearly 500 pages, the first two thirds was spent about these princesses not being able to dance because they were in mourning after their mother passes away in childbirth, WHINE WHINE WHINE.
My second time reading it, and I simply adored it.Azalea is the eldest princess; older sister to eleven unique and endearing sisters who a lot of the time sometimes get out of hand.
I love that there's so many sisters, and that they're all named after flowers (alphabetically), and their feminine ways and distinct womanliness, and that Azalea's kind of like their mother hen (except when they don't want to listen to her), and they tease and look out for each other in such a sisterly way, and they make up big schemes together (sometimes much to Azalea's chagrin) ...
Bereft of their father and mother both, the girls turn to dancing in an attempt to remember happier times, except dancing is forbidden when you're in mourning - so their dance teacher is sent away, their endless supply of dance-slippers dries up, and all their clothes are dyed black.
Presumably the younger sisters don't even know how to read, but who'll care as long as they can dance?As for the sisters, they're mostly the same character--a sort of blob of cutesy kids who never make much fuss--except for Clover and Bramble.
Substance Abuse: Nothing.Nightmare Fuel: The High King not only murdered a number of people, he used magic to trap their souls within his palace, crushed between panes of cold mirror-glass or confined to his dancing lawn with their eyes and/or mouths sewn shut.Keeper can take on any shape he likes, and once tries to be kind of seductive with Azalea while wearing her mother’s likeness.
There’s a reference to drinking blood.The abovementioned horror elements are especially jarring given the rather sugary tone of the rest of the book.Politics & Religion: This fantasy world is a lot like nineteenth-century Europe; it even appears to be Christian.
4.5 starsEntwined is a retelling of the German fairy tale, The Twelve Dancing Princesses. I'm gonna be honest here, it's never been one of my favorites.  Shhhh! However, this author manages to take a rather thin story about...well, twelve dancing princesses, and turn it into something really interesting! In fact, other than Bella at Midnight, this is probably my favorite retelling.There's magic, romance, an evil villain, a cursed castle, daddy issues, sisterly love, a rug that likes to eat peopl
4.5 starsEntwined is a retelling of the German fairy tale, The Twelve Dancing Princesses. I'm gonna be honest here, it's never been one of my favorites. 
  Shhhh!
However, this author manages to take a rather thin story about...well, twelve dancing princesses, and turn it into something really interesting! In fact, other than Bella at Midnight, this is probably my favorite retelling.There's magic, romance, an evil villain, a cursed castle, daddy issues, sisterly love, a rug that likes to eat people, and yes...dancing. This story has it all!
  As an added bonus, the author doesn't bore you to death describing scenery!
Although Azalea was our main character, I fell in love with Bramble (just as prickly and defensive as her name) and adorable little Ivy. In fact, my heart leapt whenever Ivy appeared in the pages, and I almost cried when (view spoiler)[she took the food from the dancers, got spooked, and cried to ‘Lea’ for help (hide spoiler)].
I also feel, a lot of the time, that if you’re not going to change perspective in third person PV, you may as well write it from first person POV.HOWEVER.In this book, third person perspective worked really well.
*3.5 stars* I read this as an audiobook, and recommend that medium if you aren't sure about reading this.
There were some areas where this book shined and others where it faltered.
First off, this is great for fans of family dynamics.
This focuses a lot on sisterly bonds and father/daughter bonds especially.
This would also be good for fans of novels of manners and/or lesser known Fairytale retellings.I did find that the writing was rather simple, and the book was longer than it needed to be.
Overall, an enjoyable audiobook but not something I would have picked up in physical form anytime soon.
I liked Azalea and her sisters, and by the end I felt for the king as well.
I liked the love interest and the romance.
The climax got a little spooky.As for a retelling, I felt this was a pretty run of the mill fairytale world.
The world and magic felt pretty generic.
It stuck pretty closely to the original tale in a lot of ways, fleshing out descriptions and characters, and adding a backstory and source of conflict.I think if you like 'close' retellings and fairytale worlds, you would enjoy this!Potential triggers: Pervy old man suitors, (view spoiler)[death of mother.
(hide spoiler)]
As much as the girls mourn for their mother they all loved to dance, and one night they find a way so they can dance all the nights they want.
I loved all the girls: from the strong first born, Azalea, to their smallest member, Lily.
Since Azalea is the narrator of the story we get to know her the best, and feel the weight of bitterness and anger she has towards her father.
There are some sweet romances that bloom for the oldest sisters, but the story centers around the sisters and their struggle to cope after their mother's death.
Though he appears kindly at first, the Keeper soon becomes a frightening presence that may endanger the girls and the kingdom itself.Fans of fairy-tale retellings will likely appreciate ENTWINED’s take on the Twelve Dancing Princesses, as Dixon’s version makes use of many elements from the original, including twelve girls, an invisibility cloak, and suitors who have three nights to uncover the princesses’ secret.
This story offers its own whimsical touches like a magical tea set with a spunky attitude, girls named alphabetically after different plants, and a focus on the intricacies of dance steps and curtsies.
The main antagonist of the story is dark and deadly giving the plot a much need jolt of suspense.
Entwined is the type of novel you curl up with a cup of tea and immerse yourself in.
It's the type of book that pulls you in with its rich characters, extensive back story, and beautiful setting.
Combining fantasy with mystery, suspense with romance, and extensive back story with a hint of comedy, Entwined is a gorgeous spin on the Grimm Brothers' timeless classic The Twelve Dancing Princesses.
3.5/5
Heather Dixon chooses to focus mainly on one sister as the heroine: Azalea, the eldest.At the beginning of the book, the Queen dies giving birth to the twelfth princess.
Then the girls discover a magical secret passage that leads to a beautiful place where they can dance every night… for a price.The theme of grief is threaded throughout the novel, and the villain and his realm will send a chill down your spine, but Entwined is not relentlessly grim.
Before Mother died, Azalea promised she would take care of her sisters.A promise that means standing up to the King.
And when he does—when he insists on going off war without even saying “goodbye”—it means something else.Breaking the rules.
And forget they are wearing black and that their father doesn’t love them and that they don’t even have a decent portrait of Mother.But in the attempt to save her sisters, Azalea may have destroyed them all.I admired Azalea’s determination, especially after her mother’s death.
As well as the atrocious Lord Teddie, the detestable Fairweller, and poor mistaken Mr. Bradford, who thinks he’s going to escape politics.
I don't know what my problem is with writing this review, I have been finished with the book for about 3 days and I just keep putting it off.
I feel like it just lacked a certain wow factor, that bit of pizzaz to really hook you in and keep you interested.
It is the story of the 12 sisters who dance at night as part of a curse.
They love to dance so naturally they find a magical portal to a special place, gaurded by Keeper to dance the night away and keep it a secret.
It took me over a week to reread this (thanks, college), but it was just like visiting an old friend.I love this book so much. Why I Love This Book: - It has one of the best casts of characters. YES INDEED. The sisters are so hilarious, adorable, and real--all of them are so different from each other! You have fly-off-the-handle Bramble with her flaming temper and mischief-making ways. (She's simultaneously the best/worst. I probably couldn't stand her in real life. XD) Sweet, gentle Clover, wit
It took me over a week to reread this (thanks, college), but it was just like visiting an old friend.I love this book so much.
(I just love stuttering characters; don't ask me why.) The oldest sister Azalea--the main character--with her hilariously awkward encounters with Lord Bradford, streak of impulsiveness, and motherly instinct towards her sisters.
Since I love the humor, so much, I can't pass on sharing some quotes."You look pretty, as always," he said.Azalea grinned, deciding not to remind him that the last times he has seen her, she had been soaked, frozen, unconscious, and a torn mess of the undead.
It's about 12 princesses who love to dance.The story starts off with the main character and eldest princess Azalea about to go to her first ball because she is finally of age.
There they meet the Keeper, a dashing, young man dressed in all black.
beautiful.""Azalea paused, wondering how it would feel to be pressed up against Keeper, his long fingers cradling her head, his lips touching hers.
"You are never to refuse me another dance again."Later on in the story the three eldest girls Azalea, Bramble, and Clover fall in love with three very different men.
I had high hopes for ENTWINED, especially since retellings are totally my thing, and I adore most fairy tales: especially The Twelve Dancing Princesses...
well, not the original version, where the eldest sister marries this old solider and it's all very creepy.Fortunately, Azalea, our main character and the eldest sister, doesn't end up marrying an elderly man.
Unfortunately, the book just wasn't for me.I did like the plot; a pretty original twist on the classic.
However, it didn't keep my interest the whole way and I quickly began to get bored with it.
Omg I loved this tale when I was younger! I've never seen a retelling of it. ahhhhhh i want thissss
Review soon! Er... eventually. Let's say that.
Dixon would have been better off ditching any sense of obligation to the original fairy tale and letting the entire realm be an illusion crafted by the villain, perhaps; or, if the enchanted realm is “real,” then I think it’s basically necessary to account for at least one girl wanting to stay there permanently – and probably having the lead character be at least tempted or torn, as it seems obvious most people would be, what with the enchanted realm being a paradise beyond the most beautiful dream.Overall, I can’t say I recommend this book to anyone in particular.
Between the beautiful cover and the fact that I knew it was a retelling of one of my favorite fairy tales (The Twelve Dancing Princess), I thought I was set.
Okay, to be fair, it's not as bas as "The Thirteenth Princess" but it is by no means as good as Jessica Day George's "Princess of the Midnight Ball".The setup is as follows: Twelve princesses are forbidden to dance because they are to spend the year in mourning for the loss of their recently deceased mother.
Granted Jessica Day George used the flower naming convention in her version as well, but I didn't mind that as much, because they didn't feel forced.
review to come but I must say, magic + period piece + dancing + 12 sisters = a very awesome fantasy.Update: I'm not really sure what to say about Entwined.
It's essentially a re-telling of The Twelve Dancing Sisters.I thought it was lovely and very original.
Though we can't forget about mysterious men and magical hidden passages.
If you like fantasy with an little bit of romance thrown in, or like me you can't pass up a fairy-tale re-telling, you're sure to find something in Entwined to love.4/5 Stars
A creative re-imaging of "12 dancing princesses", Dixon has so much of it right.
Unfortunately, the silver polished narrative turns on readers as suddenly as the sugar teeth (would it be too difficult to call then sugar tongs, like the rest of the world).
The character shift may have something to do with Dixon's attempt to write 12 characters into the main thread, a challenging enough feat, but many of them are stock dull child characters readers will have seen before.
It's so sad to see such a strong premise fall completely to pieces.
I was a little unsure at first because it was HUGE (the finished product will be almost 500 pages), however the author did a fantastic job of pacing the story and providing interesting details to make for a magical book.
The girls are all named for flowers and their names are in alphabetical which makes it easy for a forgetful reader to know which sister is which and the author did a fantastic job making each character different in a book with such a huge cast of characters.
I often end up with mixed feelings about novels based on fairy tales, and this retelling of one my old favorites, The Twelve Dancing Princesses, is no exception.I liked Azalea's interactions with her sisters, and I especially liked that she seemed to mature as the story went on.
It all started to feel like "dance, rinse, repeat." The antagonist took a turn for the menacing in the end, but that mostly made me wish he'd managed more than blandly creepy earlier.The setting was interesting and well-described, and the author did a good job of revealing details slowly.
For me, Azalea was a bit flawless, so I had a pretty hard time connecting with her, and the only character I could really relate to was the king.
The writing style was not my favourite, and the action scenes were kind of hard to follow.I WOULD recommend this to tween girls (and a little bit younger), though!
*Entwined* had its dashes of romance hither and thither, but just to the point where it remained, for the most part, appropriate.You may want to know: There are a few scenes in which a certain antagonist (very) forcefully kisses a character.
This was a lot better than I thought it would be. It took me a little bit to get into the story but once I did I loved the antics of the sisters. The men that were trying to court them were funny and Mr. Keeper was scary. I found myself tearing up at times, laughing out loud and gasping. I listened to the audiobook, which I think it made the story more dramatic as the narrator did a great job bringing the characters to life. I have already recommended this book to a friend.
