https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76970.The_Secret_of_the_Lost_Tunnel
He asked the Hardy’s that because he heard that they were good detectives and could maybe help him solve the case.
Later on they will be faced with many obstacles and people in there way.EvaluationWhat I liked most about this story is the way it catches your attention with how interesting it is.ConclusionI really liked this book because it was a good read and I think that it was very interesting.
I think that it will catch young readers eyes so I recommend this for people to read.
I really enjoyed the plot of The Secret of the Lost Tunnel, but I just want to be clear that this is one of the most racist of the Hardy Boys novels that I have reread as an adult thus far.
His courteous welcome reminded the boys of the gentle traditions of the Old South.Uh, yeah.
But while having house slaves was much more a "gentle tradition" than the cruelties endured by the slaves forced to perform back-breaking field labor, that sentence paints the era of slavery in terms that are far too pleasant - even nostalgic - for my taste.
Another fun mystery. I especially enjoy the comments about chet being portly, rotund etc. My son enjoys these so much and they are good clean fun.
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
In which the Civil War becomes romantic, slavery becomes casual, and "Negroes" work at Confederate museums wearing Confederate uniforms Oh God oh God
Good old Hardy Boys mystery. Surprised there isn't more controversy about this one with them going to the Deep South and dealing with the Civil War a bit.
As an action packed mystery, The Secret of the Lost Tunnel is a solid and intriguing story. But the overt racism, was "distracting," to say the least. Very early on in the book, I flipped to the first few pages to see when it was published. The 50's! (I would have guessed The Secret of the Lost Tunnel during the Civil War.The book was jam packed full of slavery propaganda and how slavery made "Negros happy." I would recommend The Secret of the Lost Tunnel for phycology studies but that is about it.
The Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew are the first series that I remember reading. I was still in elementary school, but I remember thinking I was reading more grown up books because these were long (more than 20 pages, lol) and there was more than one book you could read with the same main characters! The innocence of these mysteries and recalling my own innocence just makes me happy. All parents should give their kids Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew when they're young - only good things can come of it.
When reading this book, one must remember the year it was first originally published so as to understand how certain characters were described.That being said, I'm only giving this book a 3 because the action scenes didn't particularly hold my interest.
Various dangers begin to arise when Frank and Joe agree to help clear the name of a late Confederate General that was disgraced during the Civil War! Dixon will have young readers clinging to ever page in this exciting entry!
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
Hardy Boys d it again
A great exciting mystery!
Nice detective moves without the aid of modern-day gadgets. :)
This one didn't do it for me quite as much. The confederate stuff... eh. And the "lost tunnel" sounds much cooler in concept than how it's actually used here.
A truly hard-fought victory for Frank and Joe in this one. And don't let the Morton kid fool ya. He LIVES for adventure.
The Secret of the Lost Tunnel is about two boys the Hardy boys, Frank and Joe. Frank and Joe yet had to solve yet another mystery when they received a call from a mysterious person, Dr Bush saying to watch out for general smith which ends up with Frank and Joe and not being so bad.
The boys tried to meet up with Bush when he sped off with to other suspects, Junior and Smiley.
Good Reads 1st period Hirshman Book: The Hardy Boys: The Secret of the Tunnel Author: Franklin W.
Dixon A: Young teens who like solving mysteries B: 4 stars C: My thought on this book was it was really eye popping.
I would have to keep on reading it because every chapter was getting better and better with cliff hangers.
I had some ideas to this book like some mistakes Chet makes I would want to change.
Same as my ideas when Chet makes mistakes.
D: The big idea is two young boys solving a mysterious case of 4 good bank robbers.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
In all my years of reading...1st Hardy Boys novel I have ever read (as part of a reading competition). Story about how the Hardy Boys discover a secret tunnel to some lost gold.
My book was published in 1977 and has the 1977 cover.
Read in 2005.
It was great!
Our trip through the Hardy Boys' books continue.
Yet another fun adventure.
Dixon, Franklin W.
The story is very adventurous :D
Excellent series for young readers - highly recommended. I read these books when I was 10 - 15 years of age.
SM
Great Hardy Boys southern adventure.
