https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/255458.Systematic_Theology
There are a number of factors to consider, especially when approaching a work the size and scope of Grudem’s.
And he follows an easily understood pattern: the biblical basis for the subject, his own interpretation of these texts, alternate views of the subject, and a defense of his position.Applicability.
Also, his two chapters on spiritual gifts take a much needed balanced approach to a deeply divisive issue within the ranks of evangelicalism.This work does assume a reformed theological position.
This work is subtitled “An Introduction to Biblical Doctrine.” If this is your first dip into the systematic theological waters, it is a bit of an understatement.
Widely praised in the insular evangelicalism tainted by a taste of modern Reformed thought, Grudem's Systematic Theology is a perfect evangelical circle-jerk, unafraid to be unaware of any currents of modern or historical thought. Relying mostly on evangelical systematics of the last 150 years, and, of course, on his own bent vision of Scripture, Grudem nevertheless assumes his work is timeless and objective.  Grudem defines systematic theology as any study that answers the question, "What does
Widely praised in the insular evangelicalism tainted by a taste of modern Reformed thought, Grudem's Systematic Theology is a perfect evangelical circle-jerk, unafraid to be unaware of any currents of modern or historical thought.
Relying mostly on evangelical systematics of the last 150 years, and, of course, on his own bent vision of Scripture, Grudem nevertheless assumes his work is timeless and objective.
Grudem's work is, of course, naive in what it ignores about the cultural placement of the reader and it is plain stupid in what it ignores about historical theology and the development of doctrine.
This position is problematic, because if God can suffer then God cannot be immutable.Dr Grudem's views on church government, baptism, worship, charismatic gifts, and the millennium are probably what has earned him most criticism from his Reformed readership.
The chapter on baptism was fairly weak both in argumentation and in his understanding of the Reformed position, and he only interacts with Louis Berkhof and Michael Green (the latter is an Evangelical Anglican author).
The two chapters on charismatic gifts are probably the most controversial in the book, though it is not necessarily a bad thing for Reformed people to read these as Dr Grudem does overturn some weak cessationist arguments.
For a theologian like Grudem, who seems very thorough in so many other things, to overlook the juice vs.
wine discussion is a huge oversight.Grudem is solid on ecclesiology, pointing out that the Bible says far less about it than we like to think.
For a systematic theologian to basically rule out preterist readings of the New Testament, and then use the very texts that ought to be read preteristically as the arguments against preterism is simply bad scholarship.
Grudem would do well to read a little more widely on preterism and postmillennialism.All in all, the book is about what you would expect.
A comprehensive systematic theology from a mostly reformed perspective that is an excellent and well-organized introduction to Biblical Christian beliefs and theology.
I appreciated that Grudem as an author was upfront about his position on every topic he covered - he did not feign to be unbiased, instead clearly stating his own position and then providing ample bibliographies in each section from other authors with alternate viewpoints for the reader to follow up with as desired.
As a writer, Grudem is clear and straightforward, providing just enough academic content (usually through footnotes) to assist the reader in understanding the topics he covers in the book.
Over the past couple of years, I made it a goal of mine to read through Wayne Grudem’s Systematic Theology. Grudem’s work is one of the standard systematic theology books used in Bible colleges and seminaries around the world. I read Millard Erickson’s book in my theology classes in seminary, and thus wanted to take a look at Grudem’s work. Over the next few paragraphs, I will mention just a few impressions of the work that I have. I will not attempt a thorough review, as to review a 1,200 page
Grudem’s work is one of the standard systematic theology books used in Bible colleges and seminaries around the world.
I read Millard Erickson’s book in my theology classes in seminary, and thus wanted to take a look at Grudem’s work.
No, this criticism is not fair when we consider the book’s purpose, but it is still something that a reader may sense as he or she works through the volume.Recommendation	I would recommend that Christians of all walks of life take a shot at working through Grudem’s Systematic Theology.
Again, a widely praised, referenced, quoted, endorsed and recommended book.My concerns mostly arise because of his non-historical views on key issues.
Again, a view very much in vogue today - BUT a view that was condemned (several times) in the ecumenical counsels (Historical Theology DOES matter!) as well as by several creeds and confessions, within his own reformed tradition.
He's a baptist ;) Okay, not the end of the world, but, this much I will say - baptist theology is an aberration...
It is a handsome, well organized, well written book that has God and his workings in the world all figured out.
I remembered being surprised when he told me this was the most difficult part of earning his degree besides learning the original Hebrew and Greek.I started reading this book under the assumption that my belief structure was largely sound, but prepared to maybe pull a few small thorns out of the paw of my mind.
Ripping out the roots of bad doctrine pulls up all the other bad theology attached to them, and it is a painful process.
Others were pure joy, particularly the chapters on Prayer and Worship.Those are my initial thoughts upon finishing this massive text.
A useful and clear "first systematic theology" that is unafraid to take a position and equally unafraid to present the opposition. My agreement with Grudem's choices waxes and wanes, but my confidence that reading it was worth the time does not.
So if you end up reading this, take it with a grain of salt ;), it's quite possible I misunderstood/missed explanations given in the book-- I was likely doing several different tasks at the same time as listening to this tome.So far, I haven't come across any conclusions that I disagree with, but there have been more than a couple proof texts that the author uses (particularly in prayer, and miracles) that I believe are clearly used incorrectly and thus serve to devalue his conclusions.
Whether Grudem's attempt at constructing a Systematic Theology is useful to you or not depends entirely on what you're looking for.If you're looking for a primer on theology, or even a contribution to the conversation on theology, then avoid this book like the plague.
If you largely disagree with Grudem, his arguments are sufficiently feeble that you will likely not change your mind.When taken as billed, an introduction to Biblical doctrine, Grudem's Systematic Theology cannot be denigrated enough.
In my opinion, his highly ecumenical approach makes him the best of the three, but your mileage may vary.However, Grudem's saving grace is that his book serves as a fairly good primer to the neo-Reformed movement.
Wow. Grudem defines "Systematic Theology" as what the bible tells us today about any given topic.....and I have to say that after reading this massive text, I feel much more apt to be able to read and understand scripture and apply it to my life.
This book should be required reading for Christians who are ready to move past reading the bible by itself, but want to learn more about biblical doctrine.
(However, I should mention...one should always be immersed in scripture because no other book will grow your faith more than actual biblical text)In short, my faith is different and better after reading this book.
Systematic Theology by Wayne Grudem illuminates the basic doctrines of Christianity.
This reference book has seven major sections with chapters in each section.
The information is rich, scholarly and detailed, but written in a style easy for a lay person to understand.
I read all the way through it!Grudem ends each chapter with the words to a hymn on the subject of the chapter.
In picking hymns to relate to the Christian doctrines he “realized that the great hymns of the church throughout history have a doctrinal richness and breath that is still unequaled.”This is a marvelous reference book for every Christian.
This is in excellent book. It is extremely long and very detailed. Mr. Grudem does an excellent job of spelling out each viewpoint for each topic. This book is a tremendous resource for all serious Christians. Almost any question you can think of is addressed by this book from a Christian viewpoint.
This is my third time through systematic. Grudem does such a great job with this. Will be a long time classic.
Don't agree with him everywhere but he got me started in systematic theology.
I started this book in a piecemeal fashion - first reading the chapters that most interested me and letting long periods of time pass between readings.
Last fall, I started at Chapter 1 and began reading straight through, skipping what I had already read (and I'll probably come back to some of the appendices later).
This book is full of sound, thorough explanations on the topics that it tackles.
I won't say I agree with everything, but I find that I agree with probably 98-99% of Grudem's views, and this book helped reinforce the Biblical basis for things I believed already.
I'm fudging a little here because I definitely did not read the entire book, but a darn good chunk, anyway!
One sided, but very well written.
I know it's difficult to keep one's feelings to oneself but in order to validate personal theology in a systematic theology book, it seems, one should give equal representation to all accepted perspectives (at least all those accepted traditions that the average conservative Bible-believing Christian would not consider heretical).
And yet, while Grudem does touch on SOME of the alternatives (again, this only applies to sections where there are major disagreements between major sections of Christians ie: gifts, teleology, soteriology, eschatology) the majority of his time (in these sections) is spent on his own viewpoints (this gets particularly sticky in the Gifts chapters in which he hardly backs up his own beliefs).So why did I give him 4 out of 5 stars??
I wish he had included more studies of things like prophecy and symbolism in the Bible; he barely mentioned them, and yet the fulfilled prophecies from the old testament are some of the greatest wonders and miracles of the Bible.
He basically said "we must take it on faith" and quoted a few verses...but there is so much symbolism in the old testament and so many other verses that could have backed up quite a logical argument for his point.I have kept the book for reference purposes, but I would not recommend it to many people because without a large level of prior Bible knowledge it can be very confusing.
His major views are as follows: Reformed, non-cessationalist (believes in continuation of the miraculous gifts present in NT), and pre-mil.The book is well organized and it has been used in seminary classes.
The book is written in simple language and anybody with a high school degree would understand the issue involved.SPOILER ALERT: The biggest complaint that some have is about Grudem’s views on the miraculous gifts!
You detect the fact that he was influenced by the Vineyard movement, since in the dedication, Grudem thanks Bredesen and Wimber for teaching him “about the power and work of the Holy Spirit”.
I would not let that distract anybody from reading this great book.
It's a textbook that can be read either straight through or used for reference when questions about specific doctrines arise, and I think it's a wonderful resource for Christians or those interested in the faith.
Even the few chapters that I thought I knew a lot about (given my church background) were great to read - I still learned quite a bit, and more than that, I think the Lord used them to work on my heart in ways I wasn't expecting.Many doctrines have been disagreed upon over the millennia, and while Gruden certainly makes his opinions about the appropriate interpretations known, he seems to present both sides of the issues.
While historical and philosophical considerations are important in the broader study of the Humanities this book was not intended to be an Historical Theology or Philosophy of Religion textbook, it was meant to be exactly what it is; a Systematic Theology text.
This text is useful to those who may not share these distinctions, as much of the material can be used as stand alone lesson plans.This is not intended to be a deeply critical review I will simply add that Grudem understands and communicates his material well.
I highly recommend this book for anyone with an interest in the subject matter, most especially those for whom this will be their first foray into systematic Christian theology. This would be a terrific addition to the bookshelf of any Christian or non-Christian household (I'd love for critics of Christianity to read books like this). Keep in mind it is organized by subject matter, so it isn't necessary to sit down and read it all the way through like I did. You can read up on different topics as you have need.
Grudem has produced an excellent work from a reformed, Calvinist perspective. Interestingly, many of my friends who are neither reformed nor Calvinist also view Grudem's Systematic Theology as a go-to work. It is surprisingly readable/accessible, even including questions for small group study. Truthfully, it is readable for junior high and up, although the sheer size of it may be too frightening!
Excellent work. Haven't read it all, but I've used it countless times. Grudem is pastorally minded, devotional, yet extremely scholarly too. He is careful and does justice to both sides, yet he firmly asserts and defends his position. This covers spiritual gifts and other topics not typically covered in Systematic Theology books. Plus it is packaged in a single, accessible volume. Highly recommended!
I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in any aspect of Christianity. While I am largely in agreement with Grudem's conclusions, my chief appreciation is for his ability to humbly and respectfully dialogue and disagree with alternative convictions. Many Christian writers and bloggers today would do well to emulate the graciousness through which Grudem expresses his conviction.
I gave it five stars simply for the fact that I can't give it four. Did I agree with everything the author said? No. But I appreciate his thoroughness in coming to his conclusions. And I liked the devotional aspect of the book. Even if you disagree with his Reformed-leaning views, there's still a lot to be learned from this book.
I often found Grudem's biblical supports to be inconsistent or even slightly twisted. His organizational structures within each chapter are rather frustrating as well. Yes, it covers everything, and he is highly regarded, but it still isn't that great.
