https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2903736-princeps-fury
3.5 starsI liked this one quite a bit more than the last book, Captain's Fury, because there just wasn't quite as much plodding around in forests and swamps while the action happened elsewhere.The majority of the story is about Tavi & Co. taking their frenemy Varg and his troops back to the Canim continent, and trying to help them take on the Vord.
It's nice to see that good guys don't always finish last!I mean, is there anything Tavi can't do when he puts his mind to it?!Ok, now last time around, I whined a bit about Bernard and Amara being the most boring couple on the planet to read about.
Do not even try to read the blurb for this book as its first sentence gives a spoiler of the size of a blue whale (I mean the bigger specimens of that sea mammal):Fortunately here I am, describing the plot while trying to minimize the spoilers.
The other title for the book which works even better would be Tavi Come Home.Yes, I am thinking about this movie: The big bad enemy of Alera is back and it got bigger and badder this time.
Puh. 3,5-4 Sterne!! Die Geschichte bewegt sich auf ihr großes Finale zu, es ging sehr brutal und düster daher, teilweise auch recht zäh mit vielen Kriegsbeschreibungen... dank des Hörbuchs hab ich trotzdem nur einen Tag dafür gebraucht 😝 Außerdem HASSE ich Parasiten und wer die Bücher kennt, kann verstehen, wieso es mich durchgehend gejuckt hat 🤢🤢🤢😷
Sadly, this is a classic example of a star crossed reader/book relationship.  I am only giving this 3.0 stars and yet I have almost nothing but positive comments to make about the novel. This is a well-written, terrific story with a nice balance between detail and pacing and with characters drawn and developed with enough weight that you can really care about them. The problem is simply that traditional high, epic fantasy and I have lately just not been clicking. It's all become a big, confusing
The problem is simply that traditional high, epic fantasy and I have lately just not been clicking.
If, excluding Lord of the Rings, more than half of your 10 favorite books are within the traditional, epic fantasy genre, add one star to my rating.
2. If the vast majority of your favorite books are traditional tolkienesque fantasy and you are also a fan of Butcher’s “Dresden Series,” add 2 stars as this is a no-brainer 5 star read for you.
THOUGHTS:This is skillfully crafted, rock solid traditional epic fantasy that I can completely understand fans of the genre slobbering all over.
Wowowowow. Gimme the last one, like now!! <- that is my official review for this book. ;P
4.5 Stars, my favourit Codex Alera book so far :)
5 down and 1 to go. This series has definitely been very good since the first two books which were mediocre. Everything is setup for an epic ending. Some of the visuals in this book in particular I would love to see on the big screen. Those battles if done right would be epic and with today's CGI completely possible.
At home in Alera, the Vord have attacked and although Gaius has a plan he is weak and ill.
Gaius also dispatches Amara and Bernard on a secret mission to find out how the Vord are fury crafting and stop it.
All of the stories move quickly to a conclusion, but Tavi's ingenuity is again the real star of this novel.This book is the fifth in a continuous series and readers would be ill served to start hereAs expected this is not the last of the codex alera, and I for one am glad b/c the story is still fresh and fun.
My least favorite book in the series so far. Hoping the final book is better!
I enjoyed it, even though the plot didn't seem to require a whole book.
Some sweet scenes (breakfast on the ship), some poignant scenes (reunion) and some surprising scenes (no telling).I like the Canum wolf-people, including Varg and his son Nasaug.
Maybe they'll play a larger role in the next book.
A sad death takes place, but we also spend lots of time with a handful of characters we've learned to love across the series: Tavi, Katai, Crassus.
Also, his portrayal of Isana's character is inconsistent.
I am not sure I like where Butcher is going with a certain traitor.
Again, no bloody map in the book!
The only maps are in the 3d & 6th books.
There's a good selection here:http://www.jim-butcher.com/posts/2009...They're supposed to be for your computer wall paper, but print out in monochrome well.http://www.jimbutcheronline.com/bb/in...contains a lot of maps of specific areas.
I didn't find it all that useful & there are maps throughout the series, so it contains spoilers.Again, this was a fun romp without any real surprises or emotional hits.
Butcher could have easily made it a tougher, more emotional ride, but instead he takes the easy way out most of the time.
In many ways this series reminds me of that.
I had faithfully read all of the Dresden Files books, but was less interested in the Alera series.
When I read something this compelling, I'm reminded why I'm a Reader!When we first meet our hero, Tavi, he lives on a steadholt in the outer reaches of Alera with his uncle Bernard and his aunt Isana (brother and sister, not a married couple).
But when the ruthless Vord invade Alera (kind of like Star Trek's Borg, only more organic and with creepy new aspects), even Tavi's cleverness may not be enough.I lost myself in these stories and found myself rooting for these characters.

This is the 5th book in the Codex Alera series by Jim Butcher. They have between 4 and 5 stars for me. I have enjoyed this. It is creative and it has characters that I love. This book wasn't my favorite in the series, but still 4 star worthy for me. There is usually so much action in his books, but this one felt a little slow to start. Once it got started though, I was completely sucked in. I have the next one in this series, and I am hoping to get to it this week.
There were moments when I was emotionally hurting because of what has happened to the characters, moments I suddenly perked up and my eyes enlarged in anticipation, moments when I felt complete satisfaction for a story coming to a close and moments I was thankful I had the next book because the one I had just read ended on such a perfect cliffhanger.
(hide spoiler)]These are just two things, but these two made me question the veracity of the events of the book and the powers of the characters.Here's to hoping that this one was just setting up for a phenomenal ending in book 6.
The first book I could see being a 4 star but I loved it and was in the mood for a world building adventure and wasn't really on the fence with my rating of 5 at the time.
Not because 5 wasn't good or that it was disappointing it just kinda plateaued at AWESOME!.
The books end with enough finality at least the first 3 that they are near standalones even though they all build on each other.
The battles in the first 2 books are more lengthy than needed but there is also stuff/strategies etc...going on in them.
I finished all six volumes in Jim Butcher’s Codex Alera series, so I’m writing one review to cover the whole set. Regardless of which of the books this review is attached to, if you want to read this epic saga, start with the first book:  Furies of Calderon . I’ve also read all fourteen of the full-length books in his  Dresden Files , and there are some interesting points of comparison.First and foremost, this is a well-crafted and engrossing tale — definitely worth reading.The tale follows the
The characters are engaging and adequately complex, the plot starts well and grows satisfyingly convoluted, and there is plenty of action to drive things forward.Because the story begins when Tavi is still only fifteen, the first volume is weaker than the sequels.
This is another aspect that makes the first book weaker — because Tavi is still growing emotionally, there are too many opportunities for the author to indulge himself with the self-righteous attitudes of adolescence.Butcher has a long way to go before he can honestly portray real nuance in personality types.
The series is building toward a final awesome final book. Fantastic read with excellent characters and plot. The storyline moves the characters along perfectly and grows with them. If you have enjoyed a Jim Butcher book then you have been missing out of some fantastic writing. My Highest recommendation
The best yet of the series. Of course it wouldn't have been quite as enjoyable had the previous installments not been so well developed, interesting, and engaging. This book was action-packed, exciting, and well paced. I'm almost sorry that there's only one book left.
I talk about this book some in my November wrap-up on my Youtube channel https://youtu.be/WAFDTP4zWQc

Well, while all that may have a down side (or more than one) at least no one ever thought he could be the crown prince.As a result of not having all the magic advantages Tavi learns to use his brain and to become well versed with swords and so on...you fight like the common people who don't have furies.We have followed Tavi through his life and discoveries up to the great war in the last book.
“hardly a man ever made a fool of himself by keeping his bloody mouth shut.”  I LOVE THIS SERIES!I can't believe there is only one book left after this one. What am I going to do? I will need to re-listen to all the audios. That's for sure.I don't understand why this series is not in the movie theaters. It has great characters, amazing fight scenes, plenty of humor and romance. What's not to like?Let me discuss the plot just a bit...Tavi, now Princeps Gaius Octavian, has embarked with a float
It has great characters, amazing fight scenes, plenty of humor and romance.
What's not to like?Let me discuss the plot just a bit...Tavi, now Princeps Gaius Octavian, has embarked with a float of Aleran and Canim back to the Canim homeland.
When they finally arrive, Tavi and Varg would have to ask for safe passage back to his land but the Vord has taken over and the Canim are almost completely taken.
Back in Alera, Gaius Sextus, Aquitane, Isana and Ehren are fighting the Vord too.
Princep's Fury is full of great scenes.
Executive Summary: Princep’s fury was more enjoyable than I remember. Like it’s predecessors, it’s a blend of war, politics, romance, humor and magic that makes for a fun read.Audio book: Kate Reading once again does gives an enjoyable reading. I’m pretty much repeating what I’ve said for the last 4 books. She’s becoming one of my favorite readers now. Full Review My recollection was this book was a step down after Captain's Fury. However I find myself changing my mind on this reread. Unlike tha
Like it’s predecessors, it’s a blend of war, politics, romance, humor and magic that makes for a fun read.Audio book: Kate Reading once again does gives an enjoyable reading.
My recollection was this book was a step down after Captain's Fury.
I think this series shines best when dealing with internal politics of the Alerans followed closely by the interactions with the Canim.
The interplay between him and Max and Kitai are always my favorite scenes.Overall a pretty fun book, although compared to Captain's Fury, this ends on a pretty bad cliffhanger such that I jumped right into First Lord's Fury immediately.
I bit many a nail waiting for this book, and then many more while reading it.
Amara, Bernard and everyone else is soon locked in deadly battle with the Vord, who have some new tricks and some surprising allies!
I was so looking forward to Raucous kicking some Vord butt!)Tavi is awesome again, of course.
Butcher does a truly wonderful job with this characters.
:)I was genuinely sad to put this book down, and the idea of having to wait another 12 months for the next one is a painful one.
I also feel like the author, who's shown remarkable creativity up to this point, is finally reaching the limits of his imagination.
This book, like the others, did have a few moments where I found myself thinking "What a great idea!" But I didn't feel quite the same level of delight when I had those thoughts this time.
I'm not sure if the ideas just aren't as good as they were, or if, at this point, there have been so many great ideas that the magic has finally started to feel mundane.
A very hesitant 3 stars.Unfortunately, I didn’t enjoy this 5th installment as much as previous books. I slogged through the last 150 pages or so. I just wanted it over. Maybe I need a break, or maybe it just wasn't that good. I think I’ll take a break before completing the series.
Man this series is really fun. Another great entry, with great twists and turns. The vord are such a confusing foe tho, lets hope in the final book things get resolved more clearly.
Everyone is now aware that Tavi is Octavian and he is the Princeps of Alera.
The Vord play a large role in this story, not only in Alera but back where the Canin come from.
My only complaint, which is typical for a Jim Butcher book, is that the odds are insanely/laughably/overwhelmingly against the Alerans.
It is not enough for Jim Butcher to just make something difficult.
I don't think Octavian progressed much in this story.
To be fair though, this story takes place a few months after the last book.
It was about two years in Aleran time between each of the first 4 books.
By this fifth volume all I'm interested in is to finish this series and get it over with.It's not that it's a badly written story, or that the characters are unlikable, it's just that the plot is so ridiculously apocalyptic, the dialogue bombastically heroic and the good guys always face ridiculous odds and almost always come up to fight another day.
Few new characters are introduced (we get to see the Icewall and a part of a new continent), so the story is very easy to follow and Butcher style makes little demands from the reader.Another reader made a spot on observation in a forum that some of the new fantasy authors make the mistake of going into a new series with all guns blazing and equip their heroes with superpowers.
