https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9838.The_Bookseller_of_Kabul
We don't even know how she interacted with the family because she writes herself out of the book entirely.
She somehow thinks that she hasn't effected the family's life and that she can just describe them as if there is not some strange white woman sitting on the floor taking notes as they live their lives.The book is written with such heavy condescension that I wanted to throw up.
The moral I took away from the book is that life in Afghanistan sucks, especially if you are a woman, and it's all due to their stupid culture.
I know for a fact that no one in the comparatively progressive world would want to be a woman in Afghan society after reading this book, even more so after living in the country for some time by himself/herself.
The women want education and a job, the children want to play, young men and women of the country want to fall in love in spite of knowing the dire consequences, and Sultan Khan wants to contribute towards building a better and liberal Afghanistan, a country which he can boast of to the world.
A very interesting, journalistic depiction of life in Afghanistan as told from inside the tent of a relatively well-to-do family, with particular attention to the experiences of females. It is compelling reading, and should be mandatory for anyone who wants to know about life in Afghanistan. It is not a good thing to be a female there.
It takes a novelistic approach, focusing on characters and the daily issues that they face.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز سی ام ماه ژانویه سال 2005 میلادیعنوان: کتابفروش کابل؛ نویسنده: اسن سیراستاد (سی شتاد)؛ برگردان: زهره خلیلی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، قطره، 1384، در 328، صفحه، موضوع: افغانستان، آداب و رسوم، زندگی اجتماعی، خاطرات، کابل، افغانستان، سیر و سیاحت - سده 21 مگزارش نویسنده در سفر به افغانستان، پس از براندازی طالبان، و شرح مشاهدات ایشان است.
نویسنده به آشنایی از زندگی مردم افغانستان، و دوستی با كتابفروش شهر كابل، علاقمند می‌شود، تا داستانی بر اساس واقعیت زندگی مردم افغانستان بنویسد، به همین دلیل تصمیم‌ می‌گیرد تا با خانواده‌ ی: «سلطان» زندگی كند، و مشاهدات و یافته‌ های خود را، در قالب داستان بازگو نماید.
A família é um micro-mundo com leis próprias, e se um pater familiae entender que é mais vantajoso vender as filhas (há homens abastados no Afeganistão que pagam avultadas quantias para casar com jovens adolescentes) para casamento, ou simplesmente usá-las como escravas domésticas, adeus escola, adeus carreira, adeus trabalho!...É assim e não há volta a dar!É pois um Afeganistão misógino, que a autora nos apresenta!E fá-lo, socorrendo-se duma família criteriosamente escolhida para o efeito -- a família dum homem culto, um guardião dos livros e defensor dos direitos das mulheres.
As leis mudam, mas o tradicionalismo cruel e asfixiante sobrepõe-se!Sua Majestade o Islamismo, prossegue incólume com o seu reinado intemporal!..."O Livreiro de Cabul" é um romance-reportagem escrito por uma correspondente de guerra norueguesa que envergou a burca para melhor narrar a história.Merece um 4 seguido duma copiosa fila de "+"!!!
Loved it!Not long back from Pakistan and it was the perfect time to read this.
Enter the world of the Norwegian journalist, Åsne Seierstad, who covers the aftermath of the Taliban on society in Afghanistan, and you get what you could expect, but still hope you're wrong: a 'pseudo-novelistic' attempt at exposing the life of a country in turmoil / vicious power struggles / chaos.Coming from a liberal Norwegian society, and being a young journalist, it is expected that the book will be written from a pessimistic, typical journalistic point of view.
The fact that she stayed three months with Sultan, the book seller, and his extended family, allowed her insight into their lives that is not showered upon many westerners.
Asne Seirstadt writes an honest and candid account of her four months of life with an Afghan family, following the fall of the Taliban and the end of the reign of terror they subjected the Afghan people to.She spent these months with the family of Sultan Khan who- for twenty years-defied the tyranny of the Communists and then the Taliban by selling books on the black market because the tyrants did not allow books except those which subscribed to their narrow minded and sick ideas.Afghanistan was a great, progressive and vibrant country during the reign of King Zahir Shah who was overthrown by Mohammed Daoud Khan in 1973 after which followed 5 years of instability and then the sheer hell of Communist repression followed shortly thereafter by the Taliban's reign of terror.During the 70s already under-dressed women risked being shot in the legs or having acid sprayed in their faces by the fundamentalists.After the civil war broke out more and more women had to cover up.
The Afghans have suffered enough" (p228).Luckily for Seierstad she manages to travel in a car on separate occasions with 'Bob' and Mansur (view spoiler)[ this is the journey to Mazar-i-Sharif when she sees the remains of Soviet tanks destroyed by Mujahadeen who had swarmed down the mountainside like goats (hide spoiler)]without getting stopped by the police and obliged to marry.
You think, after reading the forward and the beginning of the book, that the bookseller will be a progressive man, but his love for his country's history and its literary heritage is his only redeeming quality and yet the very reason he is such a bastard toward his family.
Ironically, at one point in the book, a hotel guard in the worst territory in Afghanistan, observing one of Khan's family members helping an American journalist operate a satellite phone, the likes of which the hotel guard has never seen, says "Do you know what our problem is?
my issues with this book are basically ideological/political -- in spite of an introduction justifying her decision to erase herself from the story, the author also says that she spent a significant period of her time in the household arguing with its male members (presumably about gender politics and the subordinate status of the family's women).
i think including these disagreements would have made for a far stronger and more compelling story (not to mention more honest) -- as it is, this is just another piece of quasi-anthropological boo-hoo over the oppression of afghan women from an admitted cultural and linguistic outsider.
This is the personal story of almost every human being, mainly women of the household, from the bookseller family, with two wives and tons of children and an equally great number of siblings, the bookseller is a subtly liberal man of his times, that only demanded women of each and every household to stay indoors and keep giving birth until their last dying breath.Synopsis: In spring 2002, following the fall of the Taliban, Asne Seierstad spent four months living with a bookseller and his family in Kabul.For more than twenty years Sultan Khan defied the authorities - be they communist or Taliban - to supply books to the people of Kabul.
:-)I wasn't going to write a review of this book at all until I read some of the other reviews posted here and became horrified at their castigation of Ms. Seierstad.A rebuttal:I liked this book BECAUSE it doesn't read like investigative journalism.
What impressed me the most was her willingness as a naive Western woman to go off by herself and live in an Afghan family, which is something I could never do.
She is living proof that Western women can survive in Afghanistan.As for her book "feeling hopeless" - perhaps that's because she didn't see any hope.
I loved the characters.
I enjoyed reading about their lives even though I was so frustrated with Sultan at times.
I was so angry with the amount of misogyny in this book and disgusted at a how a 28-year man insists on marrying a 13-year-old girl.
to some degree, the traditions of Afghanistan resembles that in Saudi but even me, who's lived all her life in Saudi, is astonished by the amount of misogyny.
I hated that there was no real ending the characters who I could relate to on some level.
but can one get closure with non-fiction?
نظرا للتحولات العنيفه التى تعرض لها والظلم الشديد الذى طال الكثير من مواطنيههذا الكتاب هو تقرير صحفى طويل من اروع ما يكون .
اذا كنت من عشاق الروايه ستجد صيغته روائيه وممتعهوان كنت من عشاق الصحافه ستجده يروى نهمك الصحفىوان كنت من هواة التاريخ ستجد معلومات مهمه جدا فيه فى المجمل هو عمل شامل .
وواقعى جدا الترجمه كانت ممتازة وأوصلت المعلومه بكل دقه صحفيه عاشت ضيفه على أسرة أفغانيه لشهور لتسجل هذه الشهاده الحيه من خلال (سلطان) بائع كتب يقف وحيدا أمام كل ما تعرض له المجتمع الأفغانى فى المجمل عمل أكثر من رائع وانتهيت منه فى وقت قياسى نظرا للمرونه غير الطبيعيه فى ثناياه
One would naively expect a story of a bookseller, possibly under the Taliban regime (to add some literary drama to half-expected romanticism and martyrdom), but what we get instead is a total confusion over values and priorities of this book lover, history enthusiast, art admirer and culture defender who stands up to stupidity of various ignorants and self-styled chiefs but also turns out to be a cold businessman and patriarchal tyrant with a quasi-misogynistic attitude, which causes a certain confusion in the Western mind, torn between respect for different cultures and disagreement for injustice.
The book was banned in 2008 by the Wyandotte, Michigan, Board  of Education; it tells of actual instances of banning and burning books in Afghanistan; and the main character Sultan Khan was a bookseller who himself specialized in selling illegal books and writings, often right under the noses of the illiterate Taliban a-holes.
It was most interesting to read how women and young girls are treated, or mistreated really; and even when the Taliban is not in power, it doesn't change much.
They are servants, they have no free will, subjects of the men in their families.
You got a sense of the reality of her characters in their interactions.
I couldn't quite tell if she translated the characters' stories with love or contempt, but I guess it doesn't really matter in the end, because it's the reader.
I think that even in the worst of scenarios, which the Khan family did not represent, there could be some light shed, but she just made the whole story dismal and lacking any connection to a future ambition for the country, like she was just telling a tragedy and leaving.I guess I'm happy I read it.
The most depressing book about the area that I have read.
Most of the characters have little to no redeeming qualities or likeablity.
The bookseller was the least likeable of all.
The ones that were likeable and you wanted to root for you realize have no chance for happiness or an existance other than servitude and repression.
The book didn't flow very well either.
At times I wasn't sure if I was reading a book or a collection of magazine articles.
When she goes into the head of the characters and explores their thoughts and feelings you know that she must be taking liberties.
Más que una novela, El librero de Kabul es un conjunto de crónicas sociales, cada una centrada en al
I enjoyed reading about the overbearing Sultan and his family, especially Leila. Well researched but overall quite depressing.
Perhaps a more interesting question, wasn't it incredibly naive of Sultan Khan (Shah Rais in real life) to accept a European journalist into his own house and think that the portray she d'paint would be positive?
And wasn't it naive of Seierstad to think that Rais would gladly go along with the portrayal of his family in the book?
Seierstad admits as much in a interview to the Guardian: "If I write a book in future, I may decide to take the precaution of going back to every person I interview, reading their quotes back to them and asking them to sign a letter, saying it is accurate...
My knowledge of Afghan culture is really minimal so cannot really say how accurate a portrayal it is. I did however get a strong sense of judgement and superiority from this author which I didn't like.

It is a time of huge change too, she arrived in 2002, just after the Taliban had be routed by the Americans, and whilst society had thrown of some of the shackles, many cultural norms still remained.
In this she takes a step back and lets the Khans speak for themselves, and you see a very private life inside an Afghan family.It is not the easiest book to read, not because it isn’t well written and translated, but because the society and culture that she describes is so very different to ours.
We all know those travel books who pretend to teach you about a culture of which the writer doesn't even speak the language: if you travel using this "guide", I can only feel sorry for you (alright, I'll drop the pretense of anonymity: I mean Rick Steeve).Only this isn't about tourism, it's about the pain and suffering of an entire country that hasn't known peace and respect for as long as they can remember.
Patronizing them and their "inferior" culture isn't just tasteless, it's downright damnable.
And doing so without acknowledging that you write from the Pov of one unknowing foreigner is misleading too.I stopped reading this book about one third of the way.
Από το blurb στο οπισθόφυλλο πίστευα ότι θα διάβαζα ένα nonfiction, μια δημοσιογραφική μελέτη/έρευνα για τη ζωή αυτού του βιβλιοπώλη στην Καμπούλ.Πώς είναι να ζεις σε μια χώρα που λογοκρίνει και καίει βιβλία διότι δεν συμβαδίζουν με τα πιστεύω της εκάστοτε δύναμης, κομμουνισμός, μουτζαχεντίν, ταλιμπάν.Αντιθέτως διάβασα μια Αφγανική σαπουνόπερα όπου έμπλεξα τα μπούτια μου με τα σόγια του βιβλιοπώλη.
Ούτε το ένα τρίτο του βιβλίου δηλαδή.Ξενέρωσα αφάνταστα διότι εγώ περίμενα nonfiction και διάβασα οικογενειακές ιστορίες made in Afghanistan.ΠριτςΈνα εξαράκι και πολύ του είναι.Διαβάστηκε γρήγορα αλλά, άλλα έλεγε στο οπισθόφυλλο και άλλα διάβασα.Να 'ναι καλά το μάρκετινκΔηλαδή αγόρασα γουρούνι στο σακίΆσε που στο Αφγανιστάν είναι μουσουλμάνοι και το χοιρινό δεν το τρώνεΤραγική ειρωνείαΒαθμολογία: 6/10
"My tale from Kabul is the tale of a most unusual Afghan family. A bookseller's family is unusual in a country where three quarters of the population can neither read nor write."After Taliban's rule in the country, Afghanistan tried to set up their country back to how a democracy should be. Tried to rule out all the old laws made by Taliban. The story is both a nation which was determined and believed in rising up after loosing its freedom to gunmen.  "This is how first-year schoolchildren lear
A bookseller's family is unusual in a country where three quarters of the population can neither read nor write."After Taliban's rule in the country, Afghanistan tried to set up their country back to how a democracy should be.
This book shows the lives of different members in his family and how they are dependent on him.
The book closely shows the culture and tradition of the country and how it slowly changed for women and children after years of trying.
I really loved the epilogue where the author questions about other families' freedom and gives something to ponder over.
Throughout the book I was waiting for something to happen or for conclusions to individual stories and I know this was my expectations so therefore perhaps this is the reason that I found the book lacking.I did find the historical content of the book really interesting and felt such sadness for some of the characters especially the women who are treated so badly and have no control over their futures, I found the power fathers, husbands, brothers and sons have over their wives mothers, sisters and daughters so disturbing that I found it difficult reading as I wanted these women to triumph over these self obsessed men but that I am afraid this would not be true in the society they live in.
Not surprisingly, the bookseller told the Portuguese journalist he did not like the book, and I can only imagine what the consequences of this read have been for some of his family members...This being said, this was nevertheless a very good read that I recommend to everyone who likes to know more about other people’s culture and history and who like reading fiction and non-fiction alike, because as mentioned above, it is written as a fiction book, but one can easily feel that the characters are based on real people.
