https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22237161-the-sellout
You know it right away, since it begins with the main character, a black man, before the Supreme Court because he's charged with keeping a slave.
Most of the novel is a flashback, showing us how the protagonist not only kept a slave but attempted to re-segregate his formerly all-black now mostly hispanic city.
It sounds even crazier because the narrator isn't a racist crazy person, but a relatively enlightened guy who's decided this is how he gets his city back on the map.
So much in this book is untouchable and off limits and taboo.
Paul Beatty’s novel is a savage satire about a “post-racial America,” and it points out how absurd that notion really is.The black narrator, Bonbon, grew up in a “disappeared” L.A. suburb – once an “agrarian ghetto,” called Dickens – where he was subjected to his father’s sociological experiments about race.After his father is “accidentally” killed by the LAPD (see?
I didn’t get all the references, and while I found Beatty’s prose and ideas sharp, lively and “Omigod did he just write that?” funny, I also found the experience exhausting.Humour – and this book is hilarious at times – is a brilliant way of dealing with serious subjects.
Like I said, it’s kind of ridiculous, but it does allow a very full discussion of race – the stereotypes, the archetypes, and a panoply of attitudes from subtle to extreme.What the book lacked in plausibility it made up for in presentation.
§ As Bonbon’s court case was making its way up the judicial ladder, he said: “In neighborhoods like the one I grew up in, places that are poor in praxis but rich in rhetoric, the homies have a saying -- I'd rather be judged by twelve than carried by six.
Someone speculated that “If he (Foy) was indeed an ‘autodidact,’ there's no doubt he had the world's shittiest teacher.”§ In one of the few non-race-related comments, Bonbon said: “I've always liked rote.
After around thirty pages I felt like I’d read everything this novel had to offer.
The Sellout won The Man Booker Prize in 2016 and despite my despondency with the book I can see why.
This is undoubtedly highly intelligent writing, but the style, receptiveness and general lacklustre the narrator portrayed was not to my liking.
Whatever the reason, I can see why this book won but I don’t necessarily like it personally.
The Sellout, like A Brief History of Seven Killings, is a creative piece rich in originality, but not one I can engage with.
Satire is a difficult genre to assess and review, particularly when it is so tightly bound to a culture one does not share.
On the positive side, this book is often very funny, and is full of ideas and snipes at deserving targets.
Not a book to read if you are easily offended either, but the issues Beatty addresses about the state of race relations in America 50 years after Martin Luther King cannot be faced without such boldness.
So an interesting book to have read, but maybe not quite the stuff of Booker winners, and I hope there are better ones on the longlist.
It’s all ‘mitigating circumstances.’ The only people discussing ‘race’ with any insight and courage are loud middle-aged white men…well-read open-minded white kids…a few freelance journalists in Detroit…”Author interviews with Beatty are some of the most uncomfortable I have ever heard or read.
He says often in interviews, “I am uncomfortable talking about this.” He does not appear to be uncomfortable writing about what he sees and what he thinks about what he sees, so folks interested in making him a spokesperson for black people will have to turn to his writing.
I don't recall reading a book which I loved so much in the beginning and was soooo fed up with in the end.
There are about zero normal sentences and that was very tiring.
It reminded me of Steve Toltz' Quicksand.
It's a damn shame, 'cuz I laughed out loud the first chapters.I also think the book is better for native speakers (lots of linguistic humor) and if you live in the States (lots of inside jokes, historical/commercial/pop cultural references).
I would give it a try and maybe read it slow and in several sittings.
Recently I read Tram 83, a breath-of-fresh-air which uses satire to produce a stable and effective metaphor of the struggles of the post-colonial Africa, without weighing us down with the uselessness of recording real historical-political events to make it more "credible." The contrast with The Sellout couldn't be more obvious.It is not essential that an event be sketched out in exact detail for literature to be believable.
The Sellout, gets mired in its own mass when it offers unfettered social commentary about everything that concerns Black America, Imperial America, Provincial America....I am about halfway through and pausing it for the time being.August '16

One star for creativity, another for brilliant, innovative, hysterical prose, and a third for waking America up with a slap upside our "post-racial" national head.
Every sentence in this novel is a combination of "Um, YES, that is so true!!" and "I can't believe I've never thought of it that way before!"Minus a star for lack of compelling plot.
These threads are lost in (hilarious) philosophizing about the racial implications of psychology/1950s television/marijuana/surfing.
This is definitely an unprecedented, one-of-a-kind novel, but with underdeveloped characters and a nonlinear narration, at times humor is the only thing keeping it afloat.
I can only assume this is exactly what Beatty was going for, by the direction the novel ended up taking, but I felt like I was reading—no, sifting through—a bunch of nonsense I just wanted to be done with.
I wanted to like this one – the first time non-Commonwealthers are allowed to be considered for the Man Booker Prize and an American—I’d be lying if I didn’t go ahead and point out—and African American wins it.
I HAVE to read it; I’m so excited…I’m so confused…I’m so let down.
I don’t want to take away from the win at all.
How does a white, late 50’s, Australian come to read a satire on race relations in the USA, an area he has little knowledge about in said subject?
https://www.dennys.com/food/https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerhard...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_H...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elizabe...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jean-Mi...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amoeba_...I need to read Kafka as I never have.
http://www.urbandictionary.com/define...Page 165.
We're nuts." https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%93raleMy thanks to Antonomasia from https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...
????https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RoslagVara Modig (Be Brave in Swedish) When I translate this later and reread the context it adds to my consideration that this is one very witty book.
(3.5) This is such an outrageous racial satire that I kept asking myself how Beatty got away with it.
Not only did he get away with it, he won a National Book Critics Circle Award, and now the Booker Prize.
This reminded me most of Ishmael Reed’s satires and, oddly enough, Julian Barnes’s England, England, which similarly attempts to distill an entire culture and history into a limited space and time.
Even so, after the incendiary humor of the first third, the satire wears a bit thin.
See my full review at Shiny New Books.
As good a satire as satires get. THE SELLOUT is simply one of the best books I've read in years. Hilarious, thoughtful, and necessary, it's a novel that gets better and sharper with each turn of the page. Beatty's wit and wry acumen makes his prose a delight to read and his critical eye for our insular American condition highlights the many problems involving race in our society. Make 'em laugh and make 'em think, then you got 'em. Required reading for 2018 and beyond.
"This may be hard to believe, coming from a black man, but I've never stolen anything."So begins the first page in this scathing satire of race in America.
But it also drives him to shake up his crumbling hometown by outrageous and controversial means.I can certainly see why this novel has been showered with praise - it is a timely and fearless examination of race relations in present day America.
In fact it may cut a little too close to the bone for some - there were several times when I thought to myself: Woah, did he actually just say that?
But yeah, people who know their [US] pop culture, and/or who've spent a fair bit of time reading pre-Trump online American opinion articles about race, may be most at ease with this book.I don't think this is a book with a single clearcut message; it's more of an "it's not like that [i.e. not a post-racial idyll], it's hella complicated".
Reading The Sellout, I started wishing some of these individuals who've veered partially rightwing had been recommended this book a year or two ago, so they might have understood that humour can have a place in race politics too, and got some idea of why Black Lives Matter is valid, told in a way that they'd be on board with.
I read The Sellout for a book club.
So I showed up, had a lovely time, talked very little about the book, decided I would stick to the club, and also decided that I would give up on the last 15% of The Sellout and hope that our next book isn't so much of a struggle...I think I get what Beatty was doing, but, oh man, what a tortuous reading experience.
I've read some great books on the topic in last year or so, but this one just didn't work for me.I'm leaving this one unrated.
I wouldn't have read it if it hadn't been for the new book club.
"Unmitigated Blackness is coming to the realization that as fucked up and meaningless as it all is, sometimes it's the nihilism that makes life worth living."- Paul Beautty, The SelloutTHIS novel.
It is easily one of my favorite books I've read the last couple years.
I will actually frame this all into a real review soon, but for now, just know this novel seems to combine the go-for-broke comedy of Dave Chappelle with the bitch-slap lyricism of James Baldwin, the funky regionalism of Marlon James, and the subversive satire of Ishamel Reed.
If you start this book, step into its neighborhood, just know it will OWN you by the end.
(If you want to read that stuff, I suggest reviews from two Goodreader friends who are smarter than I am: Steve and Trish.)Suffice it to say that it’s rib-crackingly funny (although this does wane quite a bit at the end of the book) and the music of the writing transcends the need for educated understanding.
Hell hath no fury like people who feel their secrets exposed.Once in a blue moon, I read something that decimates limiting walls I didn’t even know I had about what is possible.
I can relate: I wouldn’t attempt to convey the plot, and I cannot imagine writing a holy-cow-popping book like this and then talking about it.
Rhapsodical Reflections and Uproarious Ramblings on Racism in "Post-Racial" America3.4/5Re: Man Booker Prize, 2016Consuetus Lector: "Blimey!
Need I go on?"This novel mostly reads like the rhapsodical ramblings and reflections of a racially righteous rebel challenging the status quo.
With mordant wit, incisive satirical spins and terrific comic timing, Paul Beatty ingeniously unmasks racism, both the blatant kind disguised and the kind idling in unheeded places, camouflaged by rules and regulations or concealed in societal customs.
The book was a real eye-opener in several ways.For much of it, the novel is laugh-out-loud funny, but the story staggered home from around page 200 of a 300-page book.
It is worth noting, the Baltimore riots are substantially less humorous than Beatty's book.
In a time where race in America is at an absolute boiling point, Paul Beatty comes along with a book so bold and brave, people will see it as either absolutely repugnant, or undeniably brilliant.
This book is hilarious.
I haven't laughed this hard reading a book in a long, long time.
Secondly, Beatty's like a coked up 24-hour news-cycle, recalling decades of stereotypes with rapid fire delivery.
It feels like a deep exhale that Beatty's been holding in for years.
Funny, raw, irreverent and unbelievably timely, I highly recommend this book.
Outrageously irreverent, quirky, challenging and profound! An amazingly imaginative racial parody!
Not in the mood for this right now. Will hopefully return to it in the future.
Literary humor should sneak up and surprise you, even when you know it's coming, not continuously attempt to hit you over your head with itself.
Again, my opinion, and one that I can mostly assume is built on my getting older (seemingly every year) and narrowing my appreciation to literary novels that celebrate the art of writing rather than doing nothing more than ringing the bell of popular culture, even if well-intentioned.
Don't not attempt to read this book based on this, just know I, for one, didn't care for it.
Now, the influence still seems there, the hyperbolic po-mo humor, at times like Mark Leyner walking the satirical high wire of serious sociological significance, but the overall world of the novel, delineated by Dickens LA with a DC frame, plus the wholly characterized characters and the inside jokes and the little pokes at Dave Eggers, Bret Easton Ellis, and the like, the obscure side-references loaded up in the last slot of a sentence's comic series, the clarity of every sentence and paragraph and the macro-level audacity, the old-fashioned yet not at all sentimental father/son story, I feel like it's safe to say that he's successfully integrated the Ishmael Reed, who's name-checked at one point, and individuated.
4.5★While I was mulling this one over, and its satirical suggestion that a kind of apartheid might be the way to address American racism, I was reading J.M. Coetzee's book which touches on a similar subject in Africa, Summertime.
People should know where they belong.Then there’s, Hominy, an old, addle-brained black man, last of the Our Gang child actors, who lives in his glory day memories of film fame.
At least Hominy felt like part of the Gang.He insists he’s a slave, calls Bonbon “Massa”, and what’s more, wants to be whipped.
Another effort he feels inadequate to fulfill is contributing to the regular cultural and political discussions at a coffee shop, the Dum Dum Donuts Intellectual Society, with a mission of collectively addressing community issues.But John is a failure at talking people out of suicide and the discussion group has been taken over by a professor who has made it rich by rewriting middle-school classic texts to be more inspiring for black kids (“Uncle Tom’s Condo”, “The Point Guard in the Rye”, “The Great Blacksby”).
DISCLAIMER: THE FOLLOWING TEXT IS THE EMBARRASSING RESULT OF YET ANOTHER WHITE ASS FOOL CULTURALLY APPROPRIATING THE BLACK MAN'S RAP GAME  Dig this (drop that beat)  Yo, yo. Now, don't get me wrongThis brutha's prose is the damn near illest, speedin' by like an antelope on pure ass crack hunted down by lions, that's nature's SEAL team of killersIt's cracklin' and crackin', out of sight, like a symphonic orchestra of Thor hammerblows to a Cyclops' cataract eye on a stormy winter nightThis nigga i
Now, don't get me wrongThis brutha's prose is the damn near illest, speedin' by like an antelope on pure ass crack hunted down by lions, that's nature's SEAL team of killersIt's cracklin' and crackin', out of sight, like a symphonic orchestra of Thor hammerblows to a Cyclops' cataract eye on a stormy winter nightThis nigga is spittin' his sizzlin' rhymes rhapsodic like there's no tomorrow We have here some heavy shit he's puttin' out, yet cleverly veiled in satire, so, if needed, he has an out, he has no need for bein' entangled in a screwed-up media quagmireThat cool fo sho, I don't complain, mucho respect, I'm feelin' his flow, his wantin' to go clean and straight for the neck But man, what a bombastic drag it becomes after a page or hundred fifty, this cat - isn't he a f*ckin' poet?
I found it difficult to finish the novel quicker even if it is just about three hundred pages thick.
It is not your finish-in-one-night kind of book.
I had to read it in a span of four days to grasp every thought in every page.The narration pushes me in deep with its snarky and relatable passages but it pulls me right back out with its tedious references.
I would recommend that you have your handy search engine right beside you as you read this.
I will definitely read it again.
OMG, I actually have finished this book.
Where's my prize cookie?
Two boxes of cookies.
Brief outline:1.
There is racism in America.
2. White people don't know shit about racism.3.
Black people make super cool racism jokes.
4. About 400 pages of cool racism jokes.
5. Which are actually kinda sad.
6. Racism is sad.
7. Stop judging people by their skin color.
8. Stop comparing black skin color to food ("chocolate black", "coffee black", "mocha black", etc, if you don't want to be "vanilla white", "eggshell white" etc)9.
Black people can do stream of consciousness and longish academic words.
