https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22450859-the-boston-girl
This is one of those rare novels that if 'life hadn't gotten in the way' I could have read in one sitting. It was like pulling a warm blanket out of the drier and wrapping it around you... I LOVED the first person telling of the story and felt like Addie was my grandmother telling me about her life. Very simple and honest... made me truly wish that my own grandparents were still around to ask them the story of their lives. A true gem!
Anita Diamant’s new novel,“The Boston Girl,” comes to us as the transcript of a tape-recorded monologue delivered by an 85-year-old woman named Addie Baum.
Such is the suspense that electrifies “The Boston Girl.”)Addie, of course, finds ways to escape her parents’ suffocating expectations.
One of her friends has the cutest dimples in the world.We’re a long way from “The Red Tent,” that feminist novel of biblical proportions that propelled Diamant onto the bestseller list in 1997.
Addie’s desperately anxious older sister flits about like a character from “The Glass Menagerie.” A young man Addie dates has been ruined by post-traumatic stress disorder, which doctors tell him to deal with by not talking about what he remembers.
I read this novel in 2 sittings!
I was 'weeping' at the pure beauty this novel was - (weeping to have it end).
This is one of the best 'simple-but-powerful' stories I've read all year --(with very clean editing)!
Universal forces are examined through the 'storytelling': domesticity and freedom, heredity & independence, ambition, political and cultural conditions, History, family, friendship, loyalty, ethics, moral integrity, heroism, marriage, parenting, beauty, fears, forgiveness, dysfunctional relationships, inspiring relationships, love, loss, honor....And the real meaning of family!The strength of this book is a liberating transition of humanity & spirit ---The reader is genuinely emotionally deeply transformed from having read this little jewel!Give this book to your daughters, your parents, your grandparents....and make sure to read it yourself!THIS is what 'STORYTELLING is all ABOUT"!!!!
.....Remember: [TAKEN from the novel].....
Even though I am familiar with stories like Addie's- Jewish immigrants living in tenements and working hard to move up in society- I was drawn in by the intimateness of her tale.
The Boston Girl reads like a memoir rather than a novel, and this is where many readers including myself ran into issues with the prose.
I read novels for their richness of prose but The Boston Girl tells a straight forward story.
Strong female friendships are a trademark of Diamont's writing, and even I enjoyed hearing about the stories the Boston girls created through out their lives.
Her mother lived a hard life, did not want to leave her home country, and as a result turned into a bitter woman.
When Addie meets Miss Chevalier, her own ambition is stimulated when this forward-looking woman proclaims "I believe that girls need gumption, too, especially in this day and age.
Money is power, right?" We learn much about what it was like for a woman earning a living during the years surrounding the 1920s.Addie’s story touches on a wide range of topics and historic events including World War I, sexual assault, orphan trains, the flu epidemic, suicide, child labor laws, prohibition, and a slew of others.
Have her be a car mechanic or hitwoman for the Mafia or Prohibition booze manufacturer or something interesting.So when I tell you that The Boston Girl is about Addie Baum, born to a recently arrived Polish family, whose love of books, general brilliance and modest beauty attracts the attention of various people as she works her way up in the world until she becomes—gasp!—a newspaper writer*, you’ll understand why I’m not the Ideal Reader here.
And since it’s Addie who tells the story as an old woman, I fell to wondering why a great writer had such a limited vocabulary.
In fact, it was well-written in that it read like a transcript of an oral history, which is the basis for the story.
But this reader was expecting more of a literary style.And if the voice of the narrative was unornate, one might expect the story to be more dynamic.
The woman's family story touches upon the immigrant experience, poverty and success, the first world war, the spanish flu epidemic, traditional expectations of marriage.
In short, the narrative is effective because it reads very much like an oral history, which is essentially what it is, rather than a highly fictionalized dramatic story.
This is a great story of family, friendship, career, and love.This book is so incredible at establishing a well-rounded character that I found myself double checking at the end to see if it was actually fiction.
I felt Addie was so real that I found myself wishing that she were my own grandmother.
I didn't have a hands-on lovey dovey grandmother and the one that would've been died before I was born so I've always felt that I've missed out on having that special bond, therefore it is great books like this that give me a sense of how wonderful it could be.
3.5 When Addie's grand-daughter asks an 85 year old Addis to tell her about her life it opens a conversation between the two of them.
So the style of this book is divided in years and written somewhat as a memoir.Starting the in early 1900's, Addie's parent's came to the North end of Boston from Russia.
So much history is covered from tenement living, prohibition, the flu epidemic, the polio epidemic and the fight to get fair labor laws for woman and children.Addie has seen so much and is a very likable narrator.
It is, however, very easy to read, covers much history and tells the story of an admirable woman.
* Happy Sigh*, What a nice read that was.
I haven't read a book that fast in ages.
They either end up being too long and forcing you to skim, or too short and leave you feeling like there are holes in the story.
I thought that the way the story was told (with Addie telling the story of her life to her granddaughter), was a clever way of jumping around a large time-line without the story feeling disjointed.
The Boston Girl has a little something for everyone in it, and I loved how there were lots of funny and lighthearted chapters, but also darker realities weaved throughout the story.
But, this review is not about The Red Tent, it is about The Boston Girl, which I found to be quite mediocre.The story is told, unnecessarily, by an eighty-five year old Addie Baum to her granddaughter, Ava. I could find no purpose in this device.
We are told nothing about Addie at this age nor about Ava or her life, we are simply interrupted from the flow of the story occasionally to be reminded that there is an old woman telling this tale.
There is nothing spectacular about Addie’s story and it felt like it didn’t really go anywhere for me.
This is a heartwarming story about a girl growing up in Boston in the Twentieth Century.
The novel begins in 1985, with Addie Baum telling her life story to her granddaughter.
I enjoyed this novel, but in places the writing was a little precious, the stories were a little too pat and perfect.
Because most of Addie's experiences were about growing up and trying to make her way in the world, I think a young adult reader might like this.
Recommended if you like historical fiction.
I thought for sure I was reading a children's book and had to check.
But I was surprised to learn it was adult fiction.
The simple sentences and uncomplicated story line would make a good children's introduction to what immigrant life was like in the early 1900s.
But as an adult book it was pablum.
No tension, no complications, straight forward story with no self criticism or doubt.
Yes, it was pleasant and I may tell my 11 year old granddaughter it would be good for her.
Although since she is finished with the Harry Potter Series, she too may find this lacking any depth.
Addie Baum's Papa, Mameh, and two sisters immigrated to Boston from Russia before Addie was conceived, so she is a true Boston girl with the accent to prove it.
Her Mameh is a sour woman who is distrustful of all things American and doesn't hesitate to say so.
Nothing is ever good enough for her, especially Addie, who wants to read and get a good education.
Is it any wonder that 15 year old Addie's dream is to get out of that house?This is her story - from young teenager to an 85 year old grandmama.
I was charmed by Addie Baum and loved reading of her life.
What s wonderful book!
Addie Baum is recounting her life to her granddaughter Ava, and after awhile, you forget that this is fiction.
You get so immersed in the story, all the heartache and the joy, and all the marvelous, and some not so marvelous, people in Addie's life.
Addie is the perfect narrator.
There is a lot than can be said about how this book explores the emerging role of women in society, immigrant life, social change in the 20th century, blah, blah, blah.
I'll let greater minds get into all that intellectualizing of the book.
This might work as a "young adult" book, but I found it very disappointing. The fact that our "Boston Girl", now a grandmother, is sharing her memories with her granddaughter, make the narrative just plain juvenile and silly at times. Our girl certainly has a great memory, though....again, unbelievably so. Love Anita, and remember fondly how much I enjoyed her columns way back years ago in the Boston Globe. The Red Tent, of course, is in a class by itself. Oh, well....
3.5 stars if I could, but rounded up to 4 stars.This is a story of the daughters of immigrants finding their way in the changing society in Boston starting in 1900 when Addie Baum is born.
It took me a while to get into it and the conversational tone feels like a memoir as Addie, whose Jewish family immigrated from what she says is now Russia, tells her story to her granddaughter.
Set in Boston in the early 1900's, we follow a young Jewish girl living with her parents and two sisters in a small one room apartment.
Despite all she and her family has endured, Addie and her friends carve out careers, showing there immigrant parents what can be achieved in this modern world.You know you are onto a winner when the writing is of such a quality that it is easy to forget the book is a novel and not an autobiography.
The story also provides a fascinating glimpse of Jewish and other nationalities lives in pre-World War I Boston.
Merely reading the titles will tell a reader what happens in Addie’s life: “You must be the smart one” (47), “Maybe I wouldn’t be a wallflower after all” (65), “The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog” (115), “I was still gun-shy about men” (143), “A girl should always have her own money” (165), and “This is Auntie Addie’s fella” (249).The years 1915 to 1927 included some significant world events, yet Addie barely mentions some of them; as a historical narrative, the book does not succeed, although people familiar with Boston might be interested in some of the historical local colour.The one thing that does stand out is Addie’s voice.
"The Boston Girl" is both the tale of an immigrant family making a new life in America, and the story of a young girl turning into a spunky, ambitious Twentieth Century woman.
When Addie Baum's granddaughter asked her how she got to be the woman she is today, Addie goes back to when she and her family lived in the North End of Boston.
She's living at a time when opportunities for women were first opening up.The story is told in a simple narration, a relaxed read that would be appropriate for young adults as well as adults.
4.5 stars I received this book from Netgalley.
Addie Baum is an 85 year old woman who tells her granddaughter the story of her youth and how it shaped her.
The family lived in a tenement and thanks to her older sisters sacrifices she was able to continue in school long after her parents wanted her out and working.
Her mother wanted such a restrictive life for her.
It's a short read and there's nothing monumental in it but you really get to know and like Addie Baum.
I feel like I really know her and am her friend.
Has Diamant heard of "SHOW, DON'T TELL?" I get that her book is supposed to be an old lady telling her memories to her granddaughter but this just reads as a major cop-out to any reader of literary fiction.
Adding in not-funny asides to an imaginary granddaughter does not substantiate your choice to write a "novel" that is basically a first-draft stream of conscious narrative bound and sold by your no-good publishers.3.
Why does she learn NOTHING throughout the novel and basically luck into a marriage with a good dude?
This is one of the best books about jewish life in the 20th century I have read to date .
Yes Anita diamant is an excellent writer and I have bought more of her books since reading this one and I want her to keep writing LOL .
I could not put it down and did not want to put it down once I opened it and believe me when I say it was hard to stop reading it .
This book is so worth the read .
Addie is an irresistibly candid character with a sparkling sense of humor and her earnest account of her life experiences grant the novel a unique degree of emotional depth.
I read historic fiction for the history, but even I can’t deny that the emotional elements of the story are what set The Boston Girl apart.Thematically the book has a lot going on and I admire how it explores immigration as a long-term prospect with implications that ripple across generations.
Addie is a product of both and I think the novel invites understanding of what that experience really means for those who live it.Heartfelt and emotive, The Boston Girl isn’t to be missed.
Her granddaughter has asked her "How did you get to be the woman you are today?" Addie states "It all started in that library, in the reading club.
Saying "It makes me want to try riding a bicycle and ice skating and all kind of things." When asked what kind of other things, she says "I'd go to college." Nonetheless, the novel is mostly about day to day life with family and friends.I thought this was such a simple story, and found myself a little bored at times.
Instead of focusing on the historical events, as they weren't historical at the time, it shows how our connections to friends and family truly are the most meaningful and important aspect of our lives.
Good story, but if you are looking for it to be as meaty as The Red Tent, you won't find it here.
Interesting premise - granddaughter interviewing grandmother whose parents were immigrants in the early 20th century.
The story is written as if you are listening to the grandmother tell the story of her youth.
I gave it three stars because I liked the book and am not sorry I read it, but it probably wouldn't be on my list of books to tell a friend they have to read.
If you are looking for a light read, go ahead and pick this up.
Simple but engrossing tale.
I loved the style of writing.
The way Addie was telling her story to her granddaughter, made me remember my youth.
I've always loved hearing stories of the past.
Even as a young child of 6 &7, I loved visiting my Aunt Violet and listening to hear her talk.
Some would have found that boring spending hours with an "old" person speak of the olden times but I have always found it fascinating.
So this book was right up my alley---made me remember good times well spent with someone special and a day spent with a good book:)
2.99 todayThis was an okay read but less engaging than antipated. I can read a book if I have character connection but that was missing for me. I enjoyed reading about life in Boston in that era. It didn't measure up to the writing I expect from Anita Diamant. The Red Tent contained beautiful prose where this felt like I was reading a teens diary.
As I continued to read about the daily routines of the family, the stubbornness of Mrs. Braun to speak only Yiddish and want to cling to the old ways, the arranged marriage of Addie’s sister Celia to her boss, Mr. Levine, I was reminded somewhat of Tevye’s gut-wrenching internal tug-of-war in Fiddler on the Roof as he cries, “Tradition!” In this case, it is Mameh who struggles most to follow the old ways.
A lot of things in this book were hard to read, like Filomena's abortion or Celia's death.
Other parts were so syrupy sweet that I didn't want to put the book down like when Betty and Levine got married (they honestly made more sense as a couple than Levine and Celia ever did and maybe that's just because Celia wasn't as vocal because of her extremely apparent depression but yeah.
There were some good nuggets of wisdom throughout this novel and quotes I really liked such as: "Gussie was a lawyer with every fiber of her being".
