https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15158.The_Camel_Club
And while some people fantasize about celebrities they’d like to dine with, I have a list of rock star authors I dream of interviewing.Recently, one of my dreams came true when David Baldacci agreed to an email interview with me.
And if I wasn’t a fan, upon learning those stats, I’d feel inclined to read a Baldacci title.A good place to start is with Baldacci’s “The Camel Club.” This book is the first in a series which follows a club of D.C.-based truth seekers.
If that’s not enough to get you reading Baldacci, perhaps a taste of my interview will do it.
Despite the fact that an agency of the American government took away everything he held precious in his life, Oliver Stone still loved his country and was willing to do everything in his power to protect it.
So it seems that at times the worst enemy of the USA can be one of the bureaucracies put in place to protect it, simply because the person in charge thinks that they know what is best for the country.I really enjoyed this book and look forward to the rest of this series.
You know there are books by Mr. Baldacci that I enjoy greatly.
He pretty much had me feeling he was really (really) mostly interested in making a political point.
You'll have to decide for yourself.Now that said, this is not the primary problem with the novel for me and it's not why I give it a low rating.
The novel starts out with an idea and a cast of characters we are to get to know.
Oh and as I and others have said, Mr. Baldacci's politics quickly become the only true point.
this is the kind of book that comes in only two forms - paperback and audio.
It's excrement smeared on paper and then bound and placed in airport bookstore shelves.
The book is utter crap and is an insult to anyone who likes political thrillers, knows anything about the Middle East and the politics of the region and anybody who just likes to read.Lesson Learned: Never buy a paperback book from an airport bookstore no matter how bored you are or how long your flight's been delayed.
2.0 stars.
Probably would have given this 3 stars except for my extreme annoyance with the "heavy handed" political tone of the book.
As far as I can tell from the authors depictions in the story, America is responsible for ALL of the evil in the world (especially in the Middle East), 9/11 was a justified response to American foreign policy and Americans are ignorant and racist.
Terrific!!!Apart from the tone, this was a fairly fast-paced read with competent writing.
I just hope the author focuses more on story-telling and less on rhetoric in future books.
“Why can’t people just sit and read books and be nice to each other?”  The Camel Club started very slow for me. I had issues keeping all the characters straight. There were so many! I did enjoy the last half of the book once I was clear on who was who. By the end, I was reaching out for the second book.The Camel Club begins with the apparent suicide of a government agent but this is far from the truth. Four men are witness to this "suicide". The four men are conspiracy theorists who seek the t
By the end, I was reaching out for the second book.The Camel Club begins with the apparent suicide of a government agent but this is far from the truth.
Their lives will be in grave danger and if found, they might not live the week and perish at the hands of some very powerful people.As the story progresses, we get to discover who Oliver Stone is and his past ties to the USA government.
We also meet Agent Alex Ford who's a secret service agent who has had a good honest career.
Alex and the Camel Club are the only hope to prevent war.
Across the street from the White House, tells a story of a man, dead and alive, Oliver Stone.
Except for the fact that Oliver Stone lived homeless across the street from the White house and was a mysterious old man.
Now that I have re-read this first novel in the series, scenes and characters have come back to me, though I had to finish the book because I still couldn’t remember the ending!
All we know in this first novel is that Oliver Stone is a force to be reckoned with and I want to read more.
Depressing;- some Americans will approve of the criticism in the book, other will be furious and frustrated;- this book proves a point.
How democracy is used as a weapon to control countries, a well done and straightforward explanation; sadly true as well;- a cliffhanger ending; don't want to indulge in the series, so I'm unhappy;- I liked, as in really liked, the big WHAT IF scenario in the book, not preposterous at all;- a political plot with eccentric interesting anti-hero, conspiracy theorist characters.
Should Americans be proud of their weaponry?
We've seen these kind of heroes in too many self-soothing/ self-congratulatory, slap-on-the-back kind of books.
Same fun, eccentric characters from Baldacci's The Collectors, however, this book came first. Intricate plot, however, a few characters are used as mouthpieces to give long dissertations on the peaceful nature of Islam and the greed of Americans. Though his points may or may not be valid, it was delivered heavy-handedly and got tiresome. After all, I'm reading a novel, not a slanted history book on Middle East politics.Aside from that, though, I enjoyed the story and the main characters. I'll read future adventures of the Camel Club as they are published.
The Camel Club is comprised of a group of men who are sort of a counter culture of their own after having served the country in some form or fashion, enough to be suspicious of the publicly fed information from the government.
On one of these evenings, they unfortunately become witnesses to a stunning event that puts them in the middle of a situation that threatens the safety of the country and the world.
There are quite a few twists and surprises that make it even better, ultimately leading to a pretty exciting climax, though I had some issues with some things in the ending.
I wondered why the treatise on the nature of Islam, was prepared to accept that somehow the relevance of that would make itself apparent.Wrong again 20% read and starting to find it tiresome, but this was an author recommended by a friend so I ploughed on.
Seems to me the target audience is an adolescent youth the author is hoping to 'educate' Yet I'm thinking it more a 'Mills & Boon for boys.
The fact that I think this book has a target audience doesn't go down well with me.
Extremely badI read this book because it was chosen by my book club - I don't think I would have bothered to finish it otherwise.The plot is ridiculous and lunges around especially towards the end - it felt like a badly written James Bond movie.
Hai-ya!I don't think these extremes are necessary to make an interesting character or story and the use of them just makes the book seem ridiculous.I also found the writing very clunky and badly phrased.
Some of the dialogue perhaps is accurate for the characters but the same inarticulate leaden style is in the narrative - I just found it to be very naive.As for the educational aspects - I found that, at times, patronising.
Read the review of the entire Camel Club series at my my blogThe Camel Club has an interesting premise in the action thriller genre.
This premise intrigued me and made me pick up this book.
Now, I have read Baldacci's Will Robie before and I liked that series.
The review of the series is available here.
The Camel Club is different since it does not rely on one individual to move the plot along though some members of the club are more equal than the others.
This book takes the standard islamic terror plot and gives it an interesting twist.
An introduction to the Camel Club, a group of conspiracy theorists led by the mysterious Oliver Stone who see a murder and get led into a major attempt against the US president. A monster book nearly 700 pages and I found the first 150-200 pages very slow in the set-up to the main story
Un grupo terrorista ha pedido a los secuestradores que exijan armas nucleares a cambio del presidente. Por Dios, el mundo se ha vuelto loco. ¿Por qué la gente no se sienta, lee y se comporta con normalidad? Primer libro de la saga Camel Club. Yo ya tengo leído los siguientes, ya que esta serie la había empezado por el segundo, solo me faltaba el primero por leer. En parte estoy feliz por haber hecho eso porque no sé si la hubiera seguido leyendo en caso de haberla comenzado por este. Es el más
Un grupo terrorista ha pedido a los secuestradores que exijan armas nucleares a cambio del presidente.
Por Dios, el mundo se ha vuelto loco.
Primer libro de la saga Camel Club.
Yo ya tengo leído los siguientes, ya que esta serie la había empezado por el segundo, solo me faltaba el primero por leer.
Es el más flojo de los cinco libros que conforman esta saga.
Por el otro lado, esta es una buena introducción de personajes, que ayuda a formar un fuerte vínculo con sus protagonistas.
Camel Club la recomiendo muchísimo.
David Baldacci's descriptive style of writing is worth reading.
I'm glad David did justice with Tom Hemingway's martial arts and did not kill him by an ex-agent turned shooter.Carter gray's assumed conviction of Tom Hemingway for doing the plot is a typical David Baldacci thing.
Everything was before him and as being the best spy he did not comprehend until the last and after the anticipation of the Tom Hemingway's hideout by the protagonist i.e. Oliver Stone.The end was balanced and he made everybody happy with it which is not the case all the time.I'm looking forward to seeing Tom Hemingway in other books of the series.
Quite a long book but worth reading.
That launches them into an adventure beyond their wildest expectations involving a complex and bizarre terrorist plot.I’ve been a David Baldacci fan since I read Absolute Power.
The characters were engaging, not only the four members of the Camel Club but the Secret Service, the terrorists, and even the politicians.
The payoff was worth it as the nature of the terrorist plot turned out to be anything but predictable and was one of the most unusual I have yet read.Looking forward to reading the rest of this series.
The Camel Club - a rag tag team of friends led by the "past-less" Oliver Stone - is a strangely capable group who's purpose is to discover the truth about what's really going on in the government.
Readers should be aware that it contains non-graphic killing (references to blood and method of death), profanity, sexual banter, and numerous debates of Islamic and Western cultures.
Although The Camel Club is the first book in a series, it can be treated as a stand alone book.See this and more content based reviews at Sarah's Reviews
A tense thriller with some fascinating twists.
This conspiracy theory group meets at night so they can go undetected all in the name of justice.The Camel Club is in the wrong place at the wrong time and find themselves witnesses of a murder.
I really enjoyed the murder mystery storyline and all the characters involved in it.
Of course when all is said and done it all ties in together, but getting there dragged on at times.There are a lot of characters in this book, therefore a lot of storylines to keep track of.
It was intense, fast-paced, and captivating!I found the members of the Camel Club to be very intriguing.
There are other interesting characters introduced in the early pages, including Secret Service agent Alex Ford who's on the downside of his career, and Kate Adams, a Department of Justice lawyer who works as a bartender at night.
Life sometimes gets in the way of finishing a good book, but it's been worth three nights up too late to do it in this case.The Camel Club members find themselves in the middle of a mess, having witnessed the murder of a Secret Service agent.
I can only say I hope there are many more Stones and Fords around than Captain Jacks and, well, others.Give yourself plenty of time to read The Camel Club.
Middle East history: Replacing dictatorships that America helped foster and support.
In most cases the democracies coming to power hate America more than the dictators they replaced.
Is it possible to have an American-style democracy will make them forget who killed their families.
Africa has more dictators that the Middle East yet no American tanks are blasting their way through that land.
American oil companies weren't pleased so the CIA helped overthrow the government & reinstall the puppet shah.
His love of Western ways led to the Iranian revolution and ended all hope for a real democracy
The book, as the title suggests, is  The Camel Club .
The book is about a conspiracy plot(which IMO is not that much of a conspiracy, one would also think so) involving kidnapping of the president for god knows what until, you know, The Camel Club saves the day by a slim chance.
The book also made me think that I wasn't supposed to ask how this particular person knows so and so things.But apart from, the book stood strong in terms of the characters.
The characters were the main reason I read the book till the end.
I didn't even care about the ones already present.
I'm not sure if the author assumes his audience is dumb or that he is pretentious enough that he feels the need to explain everything.
Was I to be impressed with the extensive knowledge presented.
Other sections of the book feel as if one is reading a newspaper account of the events.
One can only assume that either the author wasn't aware or that pure word count was at play.
I sure hope so as I picked up a few at a book sale.
The Camel Club is a political thriller about a group of misfits that have a club where they try to uncover conspiracies and force the government to acknowledge truth.
The leader of the Camel Club calls himself Oliver Stone and keeps a vigil in a tent in the park across from the white house.
During one meeting of the Camel Club, the members witness a real murder and conspiracy to cover it up.
The group begins to investigate what they witnessed and becomes mixed up in a conspiracy that threatens to result in World War III.
This is straight out of last night's news, well similar anyways. A lot of research has gone into the topic of Middle East/American dynamics in the writing of this not so pretty story. Baldacci, like Grisham, skillfully writes a conspiracy theory and then proves it.
This is the first book in "The Camel Club" series.
I was pleased and intrigued with the early introduction of Oliver Stone and the other odd but interesting members of the Camel Club, their reaction to a murder witnessed during one of their clandestine meetings, and their flight from the murderers who discovered their presence.
However, the reappearance of the Camel Club members from time to time kept me interested enough to keep listening.
Now that I've become acquainted with the Camel Club and its members, I look forward to reading more of their adventures.
The book started out slow, but once the author got all the characters in and established, it started to move along.
It was obvious from the beginning that there was a plot against the U.S., and except for Captain Jack, we knew who the 'bad guys' were, and slowly got some of the why.
I liked the play on names - the leader of the Camel Club is 'Oliver Stone', which we know almost from the beginning is not his real name.
- they are fascinating characters, and I will read the next in this series.


