https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37737.Fudge_a_Mania
This is the 4th book in the Lord of the Rings trilogy.
That buch is about a bug that is a man.
Eww. I'm telling you I would not wanna wake up a bug.
First thing is where would I poop?
Second thing is feelers are creepy.
Anyway, thisbuch continues on after Frudgo drops the ring into the lava of Mountain Doom and from there goes on a vacation to Maine with his family but.
Then Fudgo and Apple Pie accidentally walk in on Sheila's grandparents "making kissy time" and the book just gets weirder from there.
"Guess what, Pete?" my brother, Fudge, said."I'm getting married tomorrow."I looked up from my baseball cards.
"Isn't this kind of sudden?" I asked, since Fudge is only five,"No," he said."Well...
who's the lucky bride?""Sheila Tubman," Fudge said.I hit the floor, pretending to have fainted dead away.
I did a good job of it because Fudge started shaking me and shouting, "Get up, Pete!” Loved it so much and laughed so hard!
Judy Blume knows how to make us do both.
Since I skipped two in the Fudge series, Toothsie was a surprise.
Fudge is my all time hero.
3.5 stars.Read this series AGES ago as a kid and I looooved Fudge. Re-read this one on my lunch break today (it is that short and yes, I'm a fast reader) and yup, still good. I forever laugh at the "She thinks Uncle Feathers is a my uncle? Why would she think that?" "Because you never specified he was a bird!" exchange. Oh this book, still holds up to the test of time.
She suggested to me that the author's books are good for me to read.
She has written a bunch of books for children.
Even thought I read the only one, it was very interesting, and I really enjoyed it.It's bit difficult for mature English learners to find some interesting books for children in English.
I'd love to recommend the author's books for mature learners.While I was in America last month, I bought some of her books at a second hand book store.
After finishing reading it, I'd love to read all her books that I bought in America.
Very funny. Think about going on a vacation with your worst enemy on top of that sleeping in the same house for 2 whole weeks and a total 14 days that is exactly what pete thinks. So you want to find what happen pick up the book and I bet you will not want to put this book down ever and I mean ever.
I sort of missed the Judy Bloom craze during my early years, and I am tired of missing out in these reminiscing conversations! So I will slowly catch up. This book was randomly left in a cottage in Canadian Cottage Country, so I snatched it up. I like the perspective and wholesome antics. Next: Are You There, God!
So many memories. :)
I was not quite as enamored with this book as I was with my earlier read of Ramona; some of this was due to the fact that Judy Blume does the narration and really, really, shouldn't.
Towards the end it was kind of like nails on the chalkboard listening to her read.
And as an adult, I found I was way less tolerant of Fudge's antics and Sheila's obnoxiousness than I was when I was a teen reading these and thinking it was cute.
I had Super Fudge in the wings to listen to and am now going to pass.
After reading this book I was rather disappointed.
However, to me it was just too dramatic and the story was so packed together and I felt like the characters never really has any time to develop.
It was about a young boy and the summer trip that his family decides to go on.
All of the activities that the families do together are very briefly described and the main character's view point I felt was really weak and not very informative.
The only reason I would recommend this book to a child would be so that they could have practice reading, I would not recommend it for entertainment.
In my option the book Fudge a maina was a very interesting book.
I think the pranks that fudge pulls on his brother Peter are super funny.
When Peter finds out that they are living next to his enemy sheila Tubman he refuses to go up.
Also in Maine peter finds his true love a librarian named Judy.
I wold recommend this book to people who like humorous stories.
I think Judy Blume did a very good job of telling the reader what s going on.
The reason that I gave this book a five star rating is because I thought it was super hilarious.
I liked it because it had funny moments and even love moments. Also it had some part where you just wanted to keep reading forever.
Judy Blume was my favorite author when I was a kid!
I was having so much fun revisiting old books from me childhood that when I saw that Judy Blume herself narrates these I just had to give them a whirl.
So I went back and listened to the entire series.fudge-a-mania:In this book Fudge is now five but Peter Hatcher’s life hasn’t gotten easier.
This book was new to me but I loved it.
What a great book this is.
I loved that I had been to places in Maine discussed in the book.
I love watching the sibling dynamics between Peter, Fudge, and even Tootsie.
I just love this family.
I really like how she put problems in this book of a real life family vacation.
I was able to relate to a lot of Peter's problem's because they happen in my own family vacation.
I liked how the author was able make Sheila in to this really bosy, known it all girl who was always trying to act grown up.
Don't let me fool you though even though this is a quick and easy book it still has very good parts in it where you won't want to put it down.
I liked that the Hatchers stayed with the tubmans it made things funny. Ilike when Fudge and Sheila dug up the yard for a rock garden, and when Peter saw it he was like what happened it was funny. I did not like that in the book peter swallowed a fly that was disgusting . Something I learned is that just because someone says something dosn't make it true.
Judy Blume keeps the laughter coming with this book. Fudge makes a new friend while Peter struggles with what feels like the loss of a friend. This did seem to be the weakest of the Fudge books. It was however a perfect set up for the last book in the series.
aweee. the nostalgia of child hood!
Another great read with my 8 yo. There were some adult hidden jokes that really cracked me up.
It was honestly worse than last time......
Brings back great memories.
I liked this book. It's very interesting and funny.
This is the 3rd book of Judy Blume's moderately famous series of Fudge.
As all book has a fundge in the name, I thought "What the fudge, at least I will know if others can be read or not".
Sincerely when i read the book first 50 pages were a travail.
But as I know that any book need some tolerance before you can finally decide whether to go ahead with it or not, I went on.
After 50 pages i decided to go ahead but it was never so much fun to read this.
I didn't really like this book; as much as I love Judy Blume, I just couldn't get into this book. It is part of a series, but the Fudge books just are not my favorite. I chose to re-read this book because I wanted to see if perhaps it would change my mind, but it didn't. It is definitely a family based humor book. This would be at the fourth grade reading level and I would not recommend it for a serious read a loud or study.
This was a super quick read and cute as anything. I will absolutely read this story to my boys when they get older. A young boy and his family go to the lake for the summer. Peter ends up in a house on the lake with a girl from his class who he hates - and who he thought was at a cabin on the lake but not in the same house!A super quick read and a fun book.
This book is called Fudge - A - Mania. I think this is a great book. I think this is a great book because it is funny. For example his little five year old brother is funny and bad. And it is written by New Yorks time best selling author Judy Blume. And his little brother is a little trouble maker. So this is my opinion on this story.
Peter and his family spend three weeks in Maine with Sheila Tubman's family. There was an awful lot of arguing and name-calling among the children in this book. I know that happens in real life, but it got on my nerves. I think Judy Blume sometimes relies on that sort of humor too much.Despite the title, this is definitely Peter's story. He gets his first crush on a girl and so on.
Five-year-old Fudge is already planning his marriage. He wants to marry Sheila Tubman who lives in his building. Fudge's older brother, Peter,hates the idea. He and Sheila are enemies. Since Fudge is only five there's a lot of things he doesn't know,so he's always asking questions.
Love this book because Fudge's family always tries to do something relaxing but fudge always creates chaos. I think that Judy Blume is a great author!! If you read this book I hope you enjoyed it as much as I did!!!
I really like this book because it is very funny. My most favorite character is Fudge because he is very funny and I would love to have a brother like him. I will recommend this book to people that like very funny books.
Entah kenapa sejak buku kedua garis besarnya selalu tentang liburan. Kali ini keluarga Fudge liburan ke Maine. Dan yuhu ... Fudge ingin memperistri Sheila Tubman. Padahal umurnya masih lima tahun, dasar Fudge!
