https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61008.Endless_Love
one moment we are reading David's nonchalant but sympathetic description of his union job and his co-workers, his meetings with his parole officer, his sadness over his mother's bitter loneliness and his deep love for his unfaithful father, and that is this book; then we get to a place where he is suddenly lashing out against an obnoxious former classmate, inserting himself into unwelcoming lives, physically attacking his mother, smashing through windows, sleeping in an abandoned doghouse...
that surprised me when I read those reviews because David is completely sympathetic to me; I saw a lot of myself in him and I certainly understood the obsessive nature of his love, I've been there.
Qui Robin Wright e Tom Hanks.Questo libro è bello ed evita ogni tranello insito nel romanzo d’amore perché Spencer è uno scrittore che parte con un incipit come questo:Quando avevo diciassette anni e obbedivo totalmente ai più solleciti comandi del cuore, mi allontanai dai cammini della normalità e nello spazio di un istante rovinai ogni cosa che amavo, così profondamente amavo, e quando l’incorporea sostanza dell’amore si ritrasse nella paura e il mio stesso corpo finì segregato, fu difficile per gli altri credere che un’esistenza ancora così nuova potesse soffrire così irrevocabilmente.
Don't knock it 'til you've read it--the movie doesn't hold a candle to the book.
Depicts first love, er,..
I want to believe this book was a catharsis for him, and only those who have experienced loss of love, or have had a misunderstanding of mature love, can really be impacted by the book.
He brings to the surface the insanity we have all experienced in relation to our first (and perhaps second?
Third?!) loves.
After reading the very last page, I wept like a mental patient for approximately a half an hour.
Now that's a good book.
Absolutely a literary masterpiece, written with precision and pure talent by an author who defies description, a writer who can create character, thought, situation, depth, and who has a true sense of time and place. And above all, he can create passion. He opens the door and lets us "live" that passion, along with David. This is an unusual love story, and it will capture the reader who is tenacious enough to hold on through some very heavy (long and wordy) passages. I was engaged in the author's deep tale of obsessive love.
Non è niente, se non due eguali“Non l'ho scritto e ancor meno letto/Il libro dell'essere mio, semicelato sempre/A chi in un bacio scorge/L'informe oscurità vorace di un abisso/ Come potei pensare che i brevi anni bastassero/ad affermare la realtà d'un amore senza fine?” Delmore SchwartzAmore e follia; amarsi alla follia.
David e Jade si esauriscono l'un altro, si alterano nell'attrazione e nella promiscuità.
Unica dimensione possibile e concreta, il sé nell'altro, erotismo e desiderio.
Non temete sia inconcluso, l'infelicità dell'amore reciproco nulla toglie alla singolare e dissennata esperienza così verticalmente consumata.
Create an insane character like David Axelrod here, and you'll also have someone who endlessly loves.No wonder a woman's heart is broken every second.
All women like endless loves with endless lovers not realizing that they can only have one with the insane.
At least that is what this novel seems to say.David Axelrod, the endless lover in this story (which he himself narrates), tells us of his love for Jade Butterfield.
One evening, the Butterfields (spoiler alert here, stop reading!)--Jade, her parents and her two brothers--were having LSD together, believing perhaps in the adage that a family that gets high together stays together.
Torno sulla scrittura per sottolineare che a raccontare tutta la storia è proprio il protagonista David, giovane uomo dei nostri tempi (più o meno) che però si esprime come lo stucchevole protagonista della parodia di un romanzo ottocentesco.
Anche nelle fatidiche pagine del quattordicesimo capitolo, quello dove si racconta una delle scene di sesso più lunghe, e a mio parere noiose, della letteratura mondiale, il nostro caro simpaticone David non ci risparmia metafore, immagini e considerazioni, evidentemente concepite forzatamente a tavolino dall’autore e, aggiungo, con una sorta di evidente compiacimento.
quello originale, eternal sunshine of the spotless mind, lo splendore eterno della mente senza macchia - un verso di eloisa to abelard di alexander pope, per richiamare già due che conobbero la passione più sfrenata - era effettivamente poco portabile da noi come argomento di conversazione: metti anche solo pronunciare quel groviglio di dentali, liquide e spirali durante una cena.ma era nondimeno perfetto, e mi è ronzato continuamente in testa leggendo questo libro che racconta dell'ossessione che non si vuole in alcun modo spegnere in una mente ingenua e psicotica insieme.
David Axelrod's account of his passion for Jade Butterfield takes the form of a criminal confession, with the accused pleading his case before the jury formed by the reader.
I think it boils down to either personal experience of personal yearning for a feeling as strong and true, as deep as David's love for Jade.
It's again a matter of taste and personal experience and should not be a criteria of dismissing the story because some parts of it are too explicit.Beside the romance between David and Jade, the novel does a decent job at analyzing love at a more mature age, both in the Axelrod and Butterfield families.
Isolated in this family environment and in their love for each other, Jade and David spend endless hours talking, making love, and staring at each other.
Until one day, Jade's father makes a decision to be a little more father-like and throw David out of the house.
It's not healthy for him and Jade to be spending so much time together.
Touch Jade again.Only fires have a way of getting out of control.
Il livello di coinvolgimento che trasmette il libro è impressionante.Percepiamo le emozioni, soffriamo e gioiamo con lui, tremiamo con lui, ci disperiamo insieme a lui."Nell'amore mi sentivo in comunione con tutto il tempo dell'umanità, con gli schiavi in lacrime durante l'asta, coi menestrelli sotto i balconi accesi di luna; e con Jade."Tutto il romanzo sembra una lunga e interminabile serie di preliminari amorosi, un crescendo imponente e incessante per arrivare al climax, il momento in cui i due sfogano finalmente i loro ardori (mega-super-eufemismo!).Premetto che il sesso nei libri mi lascia totalmente indifferente; non riesce a coinvolgermi, mi sembra sempre tutto o troppo esagerato, o troppo volgare o troppo impossibile o semplicemente troppo ridicolo.La scena del sesso tra David e Jade è invece la dimostrazione che, sapendolo fare, scrivere di sesso in modo efficace è possibile.Siamo lì.
ed alternativamente siamo David, siamo Jade e siamo anche Ann, madre di Jade.E come Ann annichiliti e impotenti testimoni di questo amore immenso che divora e non lascia pace, non possiamo che osservare:"La verità è che nessuno aveva l’ardire di impedirvi d’essere tutto l’uno per l’altra, e l’energia del vostro rapporto era curiosamente schiacciante.
Siccome non credevamo che fare l’amore fosse un peccato o un delitto, avremmo solo potuto obiettare che tu e Jade non eravate del tutto pronti per i piaceri della carne – ma come dirlo, data la folle invidia che provavamo per il vostro amore?
Every character is seriously screwed up/deranged/sick in the head, with the possible exception of David's mother.
And unless you like references to people getting so hot they are "dilated enough for a premature birth" (that's not even the worst of it - not by a long shot, not even the worst on that page) you might feel a little squeamish at times.
WHY??) A "4" goes to the way the author showed how one person's obsessiveness can spiral out of control and affect multiple people.
Sometimes a little too intense or unique (see above: sex scenes) but better than most anything I've read.I'm a little emotionally exhausted by this book.
I have always loved this book. A nice primer on love and sex. It's a great portrait of obsession. Mesmerizing prose.I remember getting a scornful look from Mrs. Bendick for passing it around freshman English when we were supposed to be discussing the similarities/differences of "Romeo vs. Juliet" and "West Side Story." How could I not share that crazed, blood-soaked lovemaking scene with everyone? So much more interesting than Rita Moreno dancing on rooftops!I try to read it every couple of years. I also try to avoid the movie (and that horrible song) every day of my life.
Heartbreaking. I expected a lightweight story of teenage love; instead, I read a dark tale of delirium and reckless obsession.
The book is, not so much to its credit, consistently tedious, because David Axelrod is just a tedious character and reading page after page of his lonely, delusional rants is fundamentally an exhausting task.
This, crucially, gives us a break from reading page after page of David being a total imbecilic dumbfuck.
See Humbert Humbert for a totally fascinating literary character who is a complete dick, and see Lolita for a great book that is hardly very similar to Endless Love, but is also a narrative of obsession told by a complete dick.
I feel maybe I read it at the right time in my life.
As the reader, I was able to delve into the mind of young David who is slowly going mad with his highly passionate love for Jade.
I often feel books like these should be read by the young crowd because it offers a disturbingly harsh look into the unhealthy mind.
I think David’s mental illness stemmed from his dissatisfaction with his own family life and looking for a substitute family to adopt him and make him feel like he belonged.
The emotional intensity, made more acute after (sometimes long) periods of lull, replicate exactly the mania of obsessiveness.
I was drawn in and kept there by the emotion, emotion associated with the unbridled highs of youth, but also of the unique and peculiar powers of first love: love spurred on by discovery, by the daunting chemicals released in the brain in contact with that love.
I was really caught up in this one, and it is a good reminder of the power of emotional resonance in a book and its ability to shape ones waking life, and think, What would I sacrifice in pursuit of intensity?
It's nearly thirty years since I first read Endless Love . Now when I pick it up, I notice an awkward sentence, an odd rhetorical decision that wasn't visible to me in 1982, but still I love everything about this bighearted book. Read this book, and if you can, recommend other books that evoke first love so powerfully or seem to understand how dangerous it can be when you've never wanted anything in your life as much, and you feel out of control, off balance and utterly devoted.
"Allora capii che ero entrato a far parte della vasta comunità dei condannati, uomini e donne: l'amore s'era contorto in me precipitandomi in un caos".Il lungo racconto di questo amore e delle sue infauste conseguenze viene narrato dal protagonista, David, e inizia con una distruzione, compiuta attraverso l'ineluttabile simbolo della passione: il fuoco.
Perché solo l'amore senza fine è un'esperienza universale, trasversale a ogni luogo e a ogni tempo...mentre tutto il resto cambia e trascorre, passa e se ne va.
So, instead of composing a traditional review, I'm choosing to blog about the impression that Endless Love made on me.
I agree with the authors of "Read This Next," and recommend that everyone add this book to their "to-be-reads before I die list." Spencer smashes recent love stories making them look like romantic light and as shallow as a puddle in Arizona.
Spencer is a master at constructing a genuine love scene with a rawness and tenderness that makes the heart ache with both madness and astonishment.
Il racconto non sfugge mai di mano a Spencer: l’ossessione amorosa è raccontata nelle sue dinamiche, prive di senso di realtà, ma con una loro propria coerenza; la lingua e il pensiero di David, che è la voce narrante del romanzo, sono capaci di rappresentare soggettivamente il mondo interiore di questo giovane troppo innamorato, troppo ingenuo, troppo sconvolto da una specie di follia che rimane tuttavia sempre internamente lucida; coerente l’autore nel mantenere il focus incentrato sulle emozioni piuttosto che eccedere nell’intreccio narrativo; infine credibili i suoi eccentrici personaggi, nel contesto degli anni Settanta.
My ex tells me it is newer version of Wuthering Heights which is a book we both admire, I strongly disagree while conceding she does have a point.
Jade is the love of David's life and losing her will cause him to burn down her house, and that is just the beginning of this wonderful book.
The Brooke Shields movie was supposedly based on this, and I think we can safely say that they didn't read this book.
Like Wuthering Heights, this is an anti love story where passion becomes a deathbringer that causes nothing but destruction in its wake.
This is great book from a wonderful author.
I've never felt so strongly about a book that I felt the need to write a review.
I don't understand how this book has such great ratings.
It is so slow and so boring.
70% of it is just David's inner ramblings that are irrelevant and horribly uninteresting.
There are no actual plot points in the beginning that even remotely grabbed my attention.
When I saw the great reviews and was reading the book, I really thought I had downloaded the wrong book.
This book was just boring from start to finish.
Both characters are basically where they started which makes the entire book pointless.
So I wasn't expecting to like Endless Love, let alone be blown away by it.
What else should you expect?) And it's worth mentioning that Endless Love has one of the strongest, most gripping openings of any book I've ever read.Yet what really stirred me—what made me relish the book rather than merely respect it—was more substantive.
Or maybe it was because Endless Love is as much about mental illness as it is about love—indeed, the book provides a bleak and heart-wrenchingly realistic snapshot of how our society tends to treat the insane.Yes, I was surprised by this novel.
Re-reading this now as an adult, I realize it's a completely different novel than what I read as a teenager.
As an adult, this book is about living with the consequences of actions that can't be undone, struggling with the burden of emotional attachment at a young age...
Adult themes, the least of them the sexuality that was hyped for the cheesy movie they made of this book.
The nuanced emotional dynamics between the characters are astounding, actually.
Scott Spencer is an amazing writer, and his other novels are going straight into the to-read queue.
9/10, ma che tristezza! triste, triste, disperato, esagerato, commovente, malinconico. Un amore tossico, scrive qualcuno, devastante, che lascia solo rovine dietro di sé, che distrugge tutto quello che tocca. Sono felice di averlo finito, non potevo andare avanti ancora a lungo; è come salire una montagna altissima con uno zaino pesante e trovare il rifugio chiuso, come correre una maratona e non trovare nessuno al traguardo. Sì, c'è qualche lungaggine. Anche il famoso capitolo 14, l'avrei accorciato un po'. Però, accidenti, un bel libro.(che fine avrà fatto la cagna cieca? non mi si può lasciare con quel dubbio, eh!)
Made me feel like my skin was on backwards.
David Axelroad, il protagonista narratore, è un brutto soggetto, il suo “amore senza fine” per Jade Butterfield è una brutta variante dell'amore, la loro notte di sesso lunga trentatré pagine - con il lettore voyeur che chiude più sfinito dei due - è esagerata e dunque brutta: ma nel suo insieme il romanzo sovrasta tutto, è bellissimo, con nota di merito speciale per la scrittura.
Family tensions arise,relationships are tested and relationships steam up in this stunning, beautiful and well written novel of Endless love.This was one of the best novels I read all year, I love how developed the characters were and how the author had a way of telling each story.
I saw myself in David in many ways, the attachment he had to his Father, the love he had for Jade and the leftover feelings he had for his frivolous mother.
I look forward to reading more novels from this author.
