https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11438.What_We_Talk_About_When_We_Talk_About_Love
Everyone who likes this book is going to tell you that one of Carver's strengths is his knack for understatement.
There's also the fact that Carver seems to accomplish things in the span of one page that so many authors would kill many more trees (and possibly small children, and maybe even a puppy or two) to achieve; see the opening page of "Tell The Women We're Going" to see what I mean.
I don't know what that means, or if Raymond Carver's America is anything like mine.
A collection of slice-of-life short stories that mostly go nowhere and end ambiguously, and for some damn reason I loved them.
I read this over 20 years ago and I'm afraid some of the particulars of the collection escape me.
However, what I'll not soon forget is the quiet desperation Carver made me feel for everyday people whose lives had derailed.
Middle-aged regret is not something kids of that age tend to fully understand, yet Carver made me feel that horrid indecision, that deep-seated pain.
To share a larger helping of what a reader will find in the pages of this book of early Raymond Carver short-shorts, here’s a bit of detail on the title story alone with my sidebar comments:What We Talk About When We Talk About LoveSymposium: Two couples, Mel and Terri, Laura and the narrator, Nick by name, sit around Mel’s kitchen table one evening drinking gin when the topic of conversation turns to love.
The bittersweetness of longing and hope, the pain of losing love (Still Looking Out of Number One), of loss and grief, of missing, of transience, evoking tenderness and melancholy without threading onto mawkish ground, conjuring up a quiet night where a couple unobtrusively breaths together closing the day in the intimacy of their home (The Best Time of the Day), or seizing the simple joy and warm thoughts when coming home where the one you love welcomes you (Waiting): It’s not that house.
The onewho’s been waitingall this time.The woman who loves you.The one who can say,“What’s kept you?”Honest and powerful, minimalistic and suggestive, reading this tiny collection struck up a delightful acquaintance with Carver’s poetry.
A laughable business and some compelling stories, which underwhelmed me initially but after reading Carver’s What we Talk about when we talk about Love, I reconsidered my reaction towards Kundera’s book and now I can appreciate it a lot more by reason of few hazy intersection points I perceived between these two works.
He often indulges a little too much with the privileges of ambiguity but it’s hardly a flaw in the light of wit and ingenuity that makes one come back to meet people who prolong their last goodbyes while taking every last thing they think belongs to their individual self or to feel compassion towards the young couple who had some other plans rather than becoming young parents.
In any case, these things, whatever we want to call them here, are not merely a thread uniting the stories, but a thick multi-braided rope, the sort one of Carver’s blue collar archetypes might use to drag a freshly felled (by hand) oak through the snow, or, more likely, to break their fall while snapping their neck in a final, irredeemable act, right after polishing off a fifth of cheap bourbon.Basically, the character’s names and jobs seem to matter less than the brand of booze they're downing, or the sort of receptacle they extinguish their cigarettes in.
حين نتحدث عن الحب, نتحدث عن تقلباته ونهاياته الحزينة والموجعة أحيانامجموعة قصصية للكاتب والشاعر الأمريكي ريموند كارفر نُشرت عام 1981تحكي أحداث الحياة ومساراتها المتغيرة وتعقيدات النفس البشريةمشاهد نتتبع فيها ثقل الواقع في علاقات انسانية مختلفةوالشخصيات يغلُب عليها الانكسار والشعور بالخسارةأحوال الفقد, الحنين, الوحدة, الاعتياد, الخيانةقصص متفاوتة وسرد بتفاصيل محدودة وبدون نهايات واضحة
After being required to read Orwell and the goddam Canterbury Tales, reading So Much Water So Close to Home--where men on a fishing trip discover a woman's body in the river and wait until the end of their weekend to report it--would've been like ducking a bullet fired from a gun.
In which Claire is shaken by the behavior of her husband Stuart, who despite discovering a woman's body on a weekend fishing and drinking trip with his buddies, waited until they were on their way home to contact the police.
Well I thought so, though it took me some time to get around to this collection of 17 short stories.
Mid-way through I came across a scene I recognised, I’d seen it before in a film I'd much enjoyed: Short Cuts directed by Alan Atman, in 1993.
But overriding this is the feeling that as long as life includes the precious opportunity for us all to experience love then maybe it’s all worthwhile.I did enjoy some stories more than others, with the title piece probably being the most memorable, but overall I’d say it’s well worth setting aside a short amount of time to experience this powerful collection.
After reading MFSO's review I wanted to make some comment about a line that I really like in the first story of this book.
This reaction coupled with an interest as a struggling writer to see how one can write effectively and minimally I pulled out Raymond Carver again and sat him on my to be read pile of books.
This time when I read Raymond Carver I didn’t get hung up on the repetitive drinking and smoking but focused on the writing itself and saw the simple genius in these pages.Take this example from beginning of the title story of the collection:My friend Mel McGinnis was talking.
This is like what would happen if Walker Evans had built a time machine, gunned it to he 1970's, landed in the field of some pop.
He isn't actually going to shoot the images this time, though.
Fill in the lines with your own muck.Sparse, s(p)earing, simple stuff.
Back to Walker Evans, these pieces reminded me strongly of his photographs of Depression-era domestic interiors in particular, just the meagerest display of utilitarian possessions fastened to shabby walls like sculptural objects in a museum.
She said no one could make her go.
Maxine said it was another tragedy in a long line of low-rent tragedies.Shutup, mom!
having an "i can only finish books that are 150 pages long and it STILL takes me an excessive amount of time" kind of week.or month.or year.or lifetime.WHAT HAVE I BECOME.
I set the book aside and when I picked it up a second time, I discovered that these stories are better digested when read with fewer interruptions.
Reading the stories consecutively helped to draw me in and connect me with the characters.
So why would I want a photograph of this tragedy?” – from Viewfinder"Things are better now.
But back in those days, when my mother was putting out, I was out of work.
He was also crazy." – from Mr. Coffee and Mr. Fixit"The thing was, they had to have a serious talk soon.
No cars in those days, you know?
I picked up this collection of Raymond Carver stories after watching the movie "Birdman," which features a play based on the title story. When I finished reading it, I was both impressed at Carver's brisk dialogue and wishing there had been more. He sketches scenes well, dances around a topic, reaches for an emotional peak, and then closes. Like most short stories, it's a marvel of efficiency. But I still wish there had been more heft.
You know the kind of love I'm talking about now.
We'd reached the end of something, and the thing was to find out where new to start.”Grace Paley wrote a story collection entitled Enormous Changes Happening at the Last Minute, but this is Carver, and the changes are cataclysmic.
I mean, I don't know anything, and I'm the first one to admit it.” “There was a time when I thought I loved my first wife more than life itself.
A young loving couple sees it, assumes it is a yard sale, sits on the bed, the man comes home with booze…“Why don’t you kids dance?
Raymond Carver is simply one of the best post-war American writers, simply because he keeps everything within, simple, crisp and clear.
He honed his writing craft to such a degree here that this collection may well be his best work.
There's still something cerebral rather than emotional about the stories, but this alienation is part of Carver's package.
If you want to see beautiful craftsmanship and feel in the mood to take a wry andsometimes sad trip through the lives of average Americans with stories of failed promise or everyday accident then this is for you.
Short-story telling at it's grandest.
Incredibly raw and earthy, both close-up and distant, Carver’s stories make you feel as if you were there, on that bed, in that shaded light.
The love we are talking about here has lived and done it hard.
Here the prose of life reaches to us from a long way off and it makes us feel very lonely.
My eyes were full of tears when I read what Mel McGinnis was saying about love in the story that gave title to Carver’s collection.
And because this is the way love often has to be.
Memorable in so many different ways.
The reason: I like Murakami's style: the sparse, easy-to-understand narrative and, I must admit, the fantasy elements that he seems to be very fond of using.My edition of this book is composed of 17 short eccentric yet thought-provoking stories.
I think the purpose of that is to make his readers see themselves in those characters.The title story, What We Talk About When We Talk About Love (1981) is the 16th story in this compilation (I know that in other editions it is the first).
Also the last story One More Thing seems to be like an afterthought of the title story so the book has that cohesive message: that Love is too hard to understand.
A collection of short stories first published in 1981, but feeling a couple of decades older.
They are heavily edited versions of "Beginners", which I reviewed HERE).
There are few really likeable characters; more references to fishing than might be expected; misogynistic aspects and not much humour, yet they were fascinating to read.A few stories are positively disturbing (e.g. a brutal and pointless murder), but there are insights and questions too.
Some of the characters are keen to explore these matters overtly ("There was more to it, and she was trying to get it talked out" and "We'd reached the end of something, and the thing was to find out where new to start"), but others are victims of circumstance or just go, unthinkingly, with the flow.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Answer: In other words, everything else: "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love" by Raymond Carver, Gordon Lish “I could hear my heart beating.
I could hear the human noise we sat there making, not one of us moving, not even when the room went dark.” in “What We Talk About When We Talk About Love” by Raymond Carver, Gordon Lish Imagine the following sentence: “By 8 AM I wake up to go to the bathroom.” Now imagine the following edited sentence: “By 8 AM I wake up and go to the bathroom to sit on what has to be the unlikeliest throne in Lisbon.” Which one is better?
If you're into this kind of stuff, read the rest of he review elsewhere.

Stylistically incredible if relentlessly depressing short stories.
I read this because Haruki Murakami counts Carver as an influence, and I can see that: they share a certain spare clarity of prose, and an occasional touch of beautiful oddness (though Murakami takes the latter much farther than Carver does).
But while Murakami is often quite funny, Carver is just bleak—read too many of these stories in a row and you’ll want to throw yourself off the roof.
Read in sequence like that, they also start to feel a bit samey.
An occasional nibble—great.
This book has been on my list for over five years(!), so I was thrilled to find it on Hoopla. To me it was akin to listening to Andy Rooney reading the grumblings of an old man. I’ve read that this is a heavily edited collection and many prefer the longer versions, but I suspect Raymond Carver goes next to George Saunders on my shelf of authors that I just don’t get. 2 stars
A estas alturas, escribir acerca de un libro de Carver (o de Carver-Lish, como parece ser este en realidad) es algo más que complicado si uno quiere parecer original; serlo es del todo imposible.
Tan imposible como no utilizar al comentar palabras o expresiones del tipo realismo sucio, desconcierto, silencios, como una cuchilla, soledad, frío, puñetazo en el estómago, lo indecible, inquietud, hechos cotidianos, violencia, relaciones de pareja, incomprensión, alcoholismo, sueño americano, crudeza, Chejov, sin concesiones, desolación, sórdido, perfección, seco, sin adjetivos, fuerza, minimalismo, familia, autenticidad, extrañeza, esperanza, desesperanza, contradicción, ruptura, hastío, directo al hígado, infidelidad, laconismo, sugestivos, desorientados, ocultar, sin sensiblería, recuerdos de momentos felices, infelicidad, deseo de recobrar aquellos momentos felices, infelicidad...
Era imposible.
I attended the wedding of my brother's best friend last week. I like weddings. It may be something that runs in the family since my brother is a wedding videographer. But I really, really like attending weddings, because it's such a happy, happy day. Plus, I really like hearing wedding vows.Anyway, my wedding weekend read was Raymond Carver's  What We Talk About When We Talk About Love , which I borrowed from Angus when I got the chance to check out his bookshelf. This is my first Carver, and th
The priest gave this lovely homily during my brother's best friend's wedding that had all of us laughing and me thinking really hard.
Most of the stories are melancholic in its nature, and for a moment, it didn't seem like the right thing to read on a wedding weekend.
But as I read on, I realize that these stories are fragments of love in its everyday form, during the hard parts, and also, in some of the happy parts, too.I liked most of the stories, but three stories stood out: After the Denim ("He'd tell them what to expect!
5 sao.Biết nói gì về cuốn này, mình cho 5 sao là hiểu mình yêu quý no đến thế nào. Cac câu chuyên không chỉ hay ở nội dung mà còn gắn với nhiều kỷ niệm của mình, cuốn này mỏng thôi nhưng những trang sách đã theo mình trong một thời gian dài, đó là những buổi tối khuya yên binh, sự tĩnh lặng, những con người sẽ không gặp lại, la ký ức...
5 sao.Biết nói gì về cuốn này, mình cho 5 sao là hiểu mình yêu quý nó đến thế nào. Các câu chuyện không chỉ hay ở nội dung mà còn gắn với nhiều kỷ niệm của mình, cuốn này mỏng thôi nhưng những trang sách đã theo mình trong một thời gian dài, đó là những buổi tối khuya yên bình, sự tĩnh lặng, những con người sẽ không gặp lại, là ký ức...
Il mio approccio con Carver inizia con questa raccolta di racconti.
Una raccolta che sembra un album fotografico in cui ogni storia è una istantanea della vita nella sua quotidianità e del mondo di Carver.
I personaggi della raccolta sono autisti, artisti, commessi, sono reietti, sono personaggi che preferiscono vivere una vita ai margini della società piuttosto che esserne i protagonisti.
Una vita in cui non solo l'alcool è il protagonista, ma anche e soprattutto l'amore come recita il titolo.
E' una prosa che arriva al cuore, che è arrivata al mio, portandomi a conoscere meglio questo scrittore e di cui leggerò sicuramente altro.
Carver's stories are short, pared down love stories, stripped of everything but the necessary words and the skeletal, frequently all too human frame upon which to hang them.
Some of his work doesn't seem like a love story at all, think Hemingway, if he left out the toros, marlin fishing and drinking.
You might be left wondering, where is the love?
But Carver has crafted a work which tells of love in its many multi faceted guises, without ever having to directly speak its name.
To read these stories might even be a little light on the heart of the human condition.
كما إن الحب عند كارفر ليست تلك الرومانسية التي نراها في روايات عبير الشاب الرياضي الوسيم والبطلة المرغوبة المغوية إنه كم هائل من التعقيدات والتناقضات والتي تظهر بشكل واضح في فلسفته في قصة عن ماذا نتحدث حين نتحدث عن الحب أو في قصتة الغريبة والمحيرة والتي حملت إنقلابا هائلا في إحدى شخصياته الرئيسية في القصة لتكشف عن شرور الإنسان المغلفة بغلاف العائلة والمسؤولية القصة ذات النهاية الصادمة قل للنساء إنا ذاهبونكل قصص كارفر تبدو وكأنها مشاهد اقتطعت من الحياة ،أبطال كارفر أناس عاديون أحيانا مهمشون أو مختلفون وفي أغلب قصص كارفر النهاية ضبابية قد ترى منها وقد لا ترى..
You remember?" A list of the whole series of misfortunes and defeats depicted here would maybe turn some readers off from picking up and reading such a downbeat collection of stories, but I have noticed that in each of them there is a 'time before' , an age of innocence and hope when love was strong enough to push the fears and the loneliness away, when the worries of the material world were left outside the private haven of the couple.
