https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1911.The_World_Is_Flat

An oldie but a goodie; this non-fiction book was popular a few years ago (2005).
By “flat” he means super-interconnected through technology, communications, trade, etc.
(Of course invention is always like that – multiple people were working on the telephone with so many pieces lying around.)Second, the gradually increasing impact of computers; for years they did not actually reduce staff.Third, the gradual bringing of everyone worldwide into the game.Countries that want to benefit from flatness have to get three things right:Technological infrastructure to interact with the rest of the flat worldEducation and trainingLegal structure, taxation, intellectual property rights, etc.
A good book and very readable.
The World is Not Flat Precis:A big project was started in the post-war world to let countries grow and prosper and compete without using wars to do so. That was the project of globalization. A sub- or lead-project under that was the European Union. Friedman’s famous book was the recent victory cry for the Globalization Project, a chest-thumping if ever there was one!However, any keen observer would by now have concluded that the project was riddled with flaws. But that is not to say that the vi
That, inside a single currency union with a common exchange rate, monetary policy, interlinked interest rates and market integrated enough to cause contagion concerns, the fiscally irresponsible were less likely to be castigated by markets that might otherwise loose confidence and move away from investing in countries/currencies in danger of running into problems of high inflation or debt.2.
The short answer is that the United States is a single federal country, while the euro zone is a much looser confederation of sovereign countries who are willing to contaminate one another, but not willing to help one another out.Europe’s real folly and the folly of the globalization project as a whole was not to look for the gains from opening up of trade, financial integration, exchange-rate stability and economic efficiency, even if they might have been overstated.
For the most part, Friedman has a highly romanticized view of globalization, looking at it as more of a fascinating academic theory than a real force, and only talking to people who have benefited from the rampant outsourcing and supply-chaining.The first two thirds of this book suffer from a distinct lack of real world consequence.
When I read non-fiction, I like each chapter to have a thesis.
Those last hundred and fifty pages were worth struggling through the first three hundred, but only highlight how The World is Flat is more mishmash than structured thesis.This gets two stars for the first two-thirds of the book and four stars for the last third, giving it an average of three stars.
The other group of people that need to read this, or really any book like this, are those cretins who troll, lurk and spew upon the comment section of "news" articles online.
They have one biased, uninformed talking point on whatever the subject is they'll let you hear it.So yes, I do feel like a book like this is helpful for a segment of the population, especially in these particularly stupid days in the American dark ages.
The first big mistake I made was deciding to buy the 2.0 edition of the book (updated and expanded).
My second big mistake was deciding to finish reading it after first running aground about half way through and taking a several month sabbatical to read more worthy books.
Friedman is a smart guy but way too full of himself, the book’s title is sufficient evidence of that—The World Is Flat, too cute and not up to the belaboring it gets—and the false (on three fronts) humility of the subtitle.
It’s got the trends in business, technology, and perhaps culture and politics right.
Friedman has a folksy style of journalism that brings complex business and social processes down to earth (though he also has an undue penchant for coining obnoxious phrases, like "glocalize" or "Islamo-Leninist").
If globalization is really so huge and so fast, then pretending that the same--or worse--is not going to happen is just stupid.Second, Friedman talks a lot about nations like India, China, and the U.S. with detailed policy critiques and prescriptions, but he seems to miss the logical result of globalization: the death of the nation-state.
If you made it to page 629 in the 2006 version (bonus flatness!), you might have noticed that Friedman approvingly quotes Stanley Fischer as saying that "one good example is worth a thousand theories." Uh, what?
The book thoroughly covers globalization and the business world, and America's place in the new economy.
It must be accompanied by a focused domestic strategy aimed at upgrading the education of every American, so that he or she will be able to compete for the new jobs in a flat world.") I can agree with that.But really, if you're under 30 you need to read this book like you need a hole in the head.
I love any new technology that is designed to enhance my life.
As such I considered myself pretty up on the latest technological advances.
After reading this book, I realized that not only is technology affecting my life more than I was aware, but it is also changing the way the whole world interacts.
This book explains (in laymens terms I could understand) that technology is changing the world on an almost daily basis and only the nations that are able to keep up will be able to compete in the new economy.
This book should almost be required reading.
He gives an excellent overview of how globalization really HAS helped the world, and he does it via plenty of footnoted research into actual events that took place to get us to this point in history.
The very fact that Friedman addresses the dark side of globalization in the book (and in related audio programs and interviews he's done over the last year or more) should indicate that he's well aware of the fall-out, but knows it's inevitable AND surmountable as more and more countries develop a middle class, even if it's a middle class build on knock-offs like China's.
Friedman's writing is at times brilliant: he is a master synthesizer, taking complicated economic, political, technological, and social phenomena and artfully explaining the connections between them all and what that means for the future of our world.
He has a real talent for taking all these stories out of their silos and blending them together to paint an exhaustingly comprehensive picture of globalization.
Be warned: Friedman very obviously knows he's a talented writer and decides that gives him license to write a 600 plus page book that could have been 350.
I think this book represents what is wrong with a generation of baby boomers. Aside from being verbose and arrogant, it presents obvious observations as a favor to the reader, as if the reader is nowhere near as enlightened as Thomas Friedman is. In the process, he manages to name-drop, and attempts to convince us all the world is better by outsourcing. Every turn of the page made my blood boil to a higher temperature, so after nearly 200 pages, I handed it to Tony and instructed him to sell it. I have better things to do with my time.
I think the US population really needs to be more highly skilled in the long run because it is clear from the business aspect of things that low-skill manufacturing jobs will by off-shored to China were the labor is cheaper and thus it is a big competitive advantage for multi-national firms to place them there.Seventhly, Friedman talks about Wal-mart and their hyper-efficient global supply chain, especially now that Walmart's computers can talk to their suppliers computers.
For anything which does manage to coexist with Friedman’s system of beliefs, he reiterates each point dozens of times (which of course makes it more legitimate through repetition) and also provides confirmation via his preferred method, a ‘proof is in the pudding’ real life example, complete with an exciting “holy shit!” conclusion to the story, such as “only in a flat world can a man in Omaha call a customer service center, and speak to an Indian about replacement parts being manufactured in Shanghai!” These testimonials to ‘the way things are’ appear to be little more than anecdotes which allow him to brag about leaders of industry he’s currently hobnobbing with, almost always due to the critical acclaim his previous book, “The Lexus and the Olive Tree”, was awarded.
Often such books are repetitive, with the central idea behind hammered, often with selected datas and twisted interpretation to fit that one central idea.
Not this one though !This book by 3-time Pultizer prize winning author Friedman was an absolute joy to read.
It is lucid, full of relevant and interesting anecdotes, a number of theories and in-depth explanation of causes and effects of globalisation.
I consider myself well-read on a couple of sub-themes he touched and he was spot-on with his facts and insights.
The 0.5 rating has been deducted as it was slightly repetitive while talking of how America should deal with globalisation.
This book does a good job of describing cataclysmic moments in recent history and how they have democratized everything from news delivery, employment and technology. The author combines interesting corporate tales with anecdotes to keep this tome from being a laborious read.
1. While Tom Friedman was in Bangalore, my family and I were in Delhi working with new leaders of campus ministries from India, Thailand, Nepal, Korea, Mexico, Kenya, and the USA.
While Tom Friedman was busy writing for the New York Times, he claimed to have been sleeping or “otherwise engaged.” Well, his previous book the “Lexus and the Olive Tree” is what he claims led him off the trail of globalization.
4. Today young people in Thailand or India has just as much opportunity to connect to this amazing new flat world, Globalization 3.0, and create new industries.
The world of communications and collaboration is changing fast and that presents us with unfrequented opportunities.
Whether or not you like Dell, you have to admit that their supply chain and usage of technology to get your computer order taken, assembled, and shipped is amazing.
(For details on this supply chain, see pages 414 - 419 in the book.) “No two countries that are both part of a major global supply chain, like Dell’s, will ever fight a war against each other as long as they are both part of the same global supply chain.
Because people embedded in major global supply chains don’t want to fight old-time wars anymore.
But I admit, it does certainly make sense.It is an excellent book.
I'd like to recommend this book to every American under 35 years old, but I can't.
They won't read it.
It's a 300-page book crammed into 635 pages.
Friedman had all sorts of good ideas--important stuff--but he's so busy patting himself on the back, telling us what he's going to tell us (or has already told us) and bashing Bush that he just rambles on and on.Reporters are supposed to give readers the essentials plus enough facts to make the story real and enough anecdotes to make it immediate.
The World is Flat reads as if it was out-sourced to one of those Indian call centers Friedman warns us wants our jobs.
Too bad he didn't; the Indians might have done a better job.
I find Thomas Friedman very engaging and rely on his research and opinion very often when making a point in an argument.
In fact, he doesn't address any drawback except in passing (other than the random aside that terrorists can use the Internet to network too) until the penultimate chapter.This is clearly meant to be a book about how globalization affects the individual.
But Friedman extols the virtues of Wal-Mart's use of RFID technology without mentioning the concerns of privacy advocates.I think one of Friedman's biggest failings is that so much of the book is about the Internet as a great equalizer and there is not one word about Net Neutrality.
If you haven't been paying attention over the past 10-15 years to the changing of the global marketplace, this book is a must read.
Friedman explores the technological changes as well as the political values which have caused the US to start losing competitiveness to China and India.
Progressive pro-business governments in those two countries (yes even China) have embraced technological change and allowed them to rapidly catch up with the US.
The book is probably 300 pages too long (I read the expanded and revised version), but it is a relatively quick read.
The long-standing guarantee of a middle class life in America is disappearing, and our sense of entitlement to it needs to catch up.
For a simple (and almost certainly inaccurate) example, imagine if prosperous 18th century orange growers from Pennsylvania wanted to impose import taxes on oranges from Georgia.
The country has benefitted in the long run from allowing free trade, even if it caused some pain at the start.Just like the fictional 18th-century Pennsylvanians, America needs to embrace its comparative advantages and not dwell on the short-term change in earning opportunites that result.
Kita yang mengalami, mungkin merasakan kekuatan itu, akan setuju dengan Friedman.
Itu adalah hal-hal yang membuat dunia ini menjadi datar.Yang menarik, Friedman tidak saja sebagai presentis, pengamat, tetapi juga berlaku sebagai futuris, peramal.
Salah satunya adalah bagaimana kita memperkuat diri kita menjadi pribadi yang eksis di dunia datar ini.
Jadi bukan saja keterampilan teknis yang dibutuhkan, tetapi kelenturan mental, motivasi diri dan mobilitas psikologis harus dikuasai.
Jadi meskipun secara literal, pekerjaan kelas menengah itu bisa dioutsource, didigitalkan, atau diotomatisasikan, tapi ada value di pribadi itu yang tidak bisa didapat lewat proses outsource, digital dan otomatis.
The flat piece of work was further flattened by the fact that Thomas Friedman thinks to think that his readers' brains are as flat as his metaphor. It's not a particularly complicated concept, but Friedman seems to feel the need to drive it home at least once on every single page. Methinks that the only thing Friedman loves more than his own intellect (any maybe his moustache) is his flat metaphor.Flatty flatty flat flat flatness flatocity flaticity.... P.S. Flat.
I fucking hate Thomas Friedman with every fiber of my being.
THE WORLD IS FLAT: A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY (RELEASE 3.0) BY THOMAS FRIEDMAN: Thomas Friedman is a well known columnist for the New York Times and the person to turn to for answer’s about this country’s economy and where it’s headed.
Nửa đầu sách hoàn toàn không để lại ấn tượng.Tác giả chỉ nêu lại những thứ rất-quen-thuộc trong thời đại mình: chuỗi cung, mạng máy tính, UPS, outsourcing, insourcing, e-commerce...
Đặc biệt thích đoạn tác giả miêu tả mối quan hệ TQ và Mỹ: Ban đầu tôi sợ sói, sau này tôi khiêu vũ cùng sói và ngay bây giờ tôi muốn trở thành sói.12 năm sau ngày sách ra mắt, dù kỷ nguyên số đang diễn ra cực mạnh, công cụ hôm nay sẽ lỗi thời vào ngày mai nhưng Thế Giới Phẳng dường như không quá cũ.
Perhaps it is because this book is a couple years old now (though mine was an updated edition), but for a book that purports to be so prophetic, this really seems like last century's news.
I suppose it is because Mr. Friedman thinks these are new or profound ideas that he feels the need to summarize them in catch phrases, which he then repeats until they take on a Seussian absurdity.
I'm not sure if Mr. Friedman thinks he's writing to people who need constant repetition or if he just likes pages, but this could have been a much shorter book.
I would have given this at least 4 stars if it had been edited to a reasonable length, with less repetition. Despite what many of the reviewers suggested, it wasn't a fully one-sided account of free trade. Though Friedman's position was mostly pro-free-trade (almost all economists are pro), he did discuss problems and inequalities that arise and acknowledged the complexities of free trade. The book was also pretty thorough discussing not just government policy, but also technology, education, cultural attitudes, and even terrorism. I'd recommend it but only if you're prepared to do the hard hard work of slogging through.
