https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/191940.The_Man_Without_Qualities
Similarly, the organizers of the Campaign stress repeatedly how the movement must come organically from the people; but in practice, it achieves this end by having high level officials meet repeatedly to plan it out, because the masses aren’t to be trusted with big ideas.On the other hand, as soon as a soul has morality or religion, philosophy, and intensive bourgeois education and ideals in the realms of duty and of the beautiful, it is endowed with a system of regulations, conditions and directives for operation, which it has to fill out before it is entitled to think of itself as a respectable soul, and its heat, like that of a blast-furnace, is conducted into beautiful squares of sand.
Whereas Ulrich is the eternal skeptic, unable to remain with—or believe in—any single occupation for long and continually setting himself in opposition to the prevailing conventional ideas of society—whether with family, friend, acquaintance or stranger—Armheim is the modern intellect who embraces everything in an effort to achieve a synthesis of the poetic with the pragmatic, the businesslike with the beautiful, the scientific with the sinful.Yet with these two, as with the brilliantly realized cast that surrounds them, their witty interplay, their philosophical musings and extended dissertations cannot mask the utterly facile and frivolous ends they have become the means for.
So many ideas, too many to even begin listing, but never does it feel thematically scatterbrained or "encyclopedic" -- it's like a gracefully revolving squeezing out of nuanced colors from every gradiation stop along the emotional, intellectual, psychological, artistic, political, societal, and most importantly the spiritual spectrum (note: "spiritual" doesn't mean "religious" as much as having to do with that very Germanic concept of Geist, which I think is like the soul, the body, the mind, the will, and all those old verities like courage and dignity wrapped up in one -- the sort of thing ye olde uber-Modernist novels like this are most concerned about).

It happens after the transfer. The tedium, then the lurking state of thought-rush, irretrievable perceptions. It may be for three minutes or many hours. I no longer live in time. I am alone in the small cottage. It isn't that I have anything to prove. Simply, I want to be alone with my thoughts. The absence of the weight of another person's unspoken ideas became important. Oppression has become my medium. The transfer occurs in stages. It must be thought out first. Each stage etched into the min
Also," since I was on a roll I put my un-quivered hand up to stop him, "there was a gem tucked in that basically said that any small thing that we do, stance we take, idea we explore, may appear insignificant at the time but may very well be the small piece that will lock other pieces together, which we will never know of."	"Yes," He reached into his trouser pocket, "I carry it with me." He held up two folded pieces of lined paper.
A quite remarkable book which, now having read, has immediately become a noticable portion of the furniture of my mind... A fine intoduction (for me) to the modernist ethic and the modernist aesthetic... which I've been seeking to understand (with quite some difficulty) for the past two-plus years.All the secondary literature I've read on Modernism was essentially worthless. Since there is no thread, there really is no thesis; and hence, no real way to approach it via "scholarship". One simply has to go to the primary texts and to the art works themselves.
The Man Without Qualities is a Modernist masterpiece. An expansive book of ideas yet an intimate view into Austrian society, circa 1913. The writing (in translation from German) is erudite and sophisticated. The view into the psychology of the numerous characters is rich and insightful. The overall critique of both Austrian and human civilization is profound and sharp. There are intimations of Proust here but the language less elaborate. I'm also reminded of Fernando Passoa and  The Book of Disq
We get: an aristocratic politician, the richest and most elite industrialist in the world, an elevated "woman of society," a woman of slightly lesser upper-class society who can't seem to stop herself from having affairs, a tormented and failed artist (but with upper class family), his seemingly insane and vivacious young wife, a general in the army who would rather deal with civilian matters than military ones, a teenage girl of a middle-bourgeoisie family and her (sort-of) boyfriend who is a poor but idealistic student (idealistic in the sense of leading a group of Germanic nationalists who believe in the purity of spiritual community, abstract "love," and the Jew as metaphorically representing the enemy--finance, Capitalism and cold mathematics) and the main character, our "man without qualities," a somewhat spoiled (supported by his father's highly successful law practice) career dabbler with an academic mindset who is more intent on thinking his way through life than actually accomplishing anything.
Pick a time and pick a place; it may be nice to think that there is an Ulrich there, but deep down we all know we cannot be helped, even by those who see, if we choose not to help ourselves.I read and write specifically for such insight that this book is absolutely filthy with.
I started feeling like I needed to go read up on the Hapsburg Empire and on pre-War Europe in general.
I read 297 pages, and several of those pages I did like very much.
I mean, honestly if this weren't the first of three volumes, I'd read the last sixty-eight pages, but it is, and I'm not, and anyway, I'm pretty sure he didn't finish writing it before he died, which is also a demotivating factor.
If Robert Musil couldn't finish The Man Without Qualities how on earth can I be expected to?I do recommend this to someone who wants to read something unique, intellectually engaging, and fairly difficult.
"It is not difficult to give a description about this thirty-two-year-old man, Ulrich, in general outline, even though all he knew about himself was that he was as far from all the qualities as he was near them, whether they had become his own or not, in some strange way were equally a matter of indifference to him."There is, of course, a fascinating narrative moving parallel to the idea of the book.
It is a story, but also a book about "ideas" many of which confront our deepest concerns about our existence:"The superiority of a man who has freed himself from the wish to live is enormous."
A large part of the book is dedicated to the preparations of the 70th anniversary of the reign of Franz Joseph (which also coincided with the 30th anniversary of Wilhem II of Germany - so the race is on to see who can waste more money and hot air in proclaiming the more glorious regime.
Of course, all of this is written with the background of WW I and the subsequent destruction of both empires.
The second Volume has a large part dedicated to incense with Ulrich's cousin so I never bothered to read it, not wanting to be disappointed after the masterpiece that was Vol. 1.
Έτσι νιώθεις μόνο όταν διαβάζεις Νίτσε" Όλοι οι δρόμοι προς το πνεύμα ξεκινούν από την ψυχή αλλά κανένας δεν οδηγεί πίσω"" Για να είναι κανείς υπερβολικός πρέπει να είναι τελείως ακριβής και αντικειμενικός"Διότι μόνο ενα οι άνθρωποι ήσαν τελείως αντικειμενικοί-κι αυτό είναι σχεδόν το ίδιο σαν να είναι απρόσωποι- θα ήταν και ολότελα Έρωτας.Γιατί μόνο τότε θα ήταν ολότελα αίσθηση και συναίσθημα και σκέψη"" Γιατί δεν κάνει ο άνθρωπος Ιστορία,δηλαδή γιατί επιτίθεται ενεργητικά στην ιστορία μόνο σαν
Έτσι νιώθεις μόνο όταν διαβάζεις Νίτσε" Όλοι οι δρόμοι προς το πνεύμα ξεκινούν από την ψυχή αλλά καν
Endlessly awesome. Practically plotless and hence captures the imagination purely through its profundity of ideas. The possibilites that Musil postulates through the character of Ulrich are awe-inspiring--his attack on every single way we live our lives is shocking, yet completely reasonable--but ultimately, the abstractness of these solutions cannot uphold the corporeality of an actual human life, and despite the apparent overused and scarred nature of every path that seems to stretch out before us, Musil eventually concludes that we must continue to try to blaze a new trail within reality itself, not outside it. One of the great novels.
Master of the elaborate and perfectly apt simile and an intellectual ironic comic of the highest order, I salute you Robert Musil, you AND your rarefied but highly readable novel composed of hundreds if not thousands of well-engineered lines worthy of weeklong pondering each. It may make your head swim but it'll also teach your brain how to breathe.
I will now add volume 2 to my "currently reading." Stay tuned for the review, which will probably be forthcoming somewhere around 2015...My original review (summer 2007):I must admit that I experienced smugness when carrying around this weighty early twentieth century Austrian novel earlier this summer, while passing through airports where everyone from naval cadets to septuagenarians were Pottering.
At 1500 pages (spread over two volumes), it remained uncompleted at Musil's death And yet, somehow, it is worth it.
Though there are points where nearly anyone would wonder why he is spending this much time on a novel that doesn't even end with a quidditch match, there are frequent scenes that rank with the best of twentieth century fiction.
Phew! This is a monster. A massive book of ideas. As Mann deals with his sanatorium, Musil approaches Austria-Hungary in the early 20th century, an ancient empire marching into oblivion. Encompasses thoughts of ideologies of the era.On to Volume 2.
XX საუკუნის ევროპული ლიტერატურა განსაკუთრებული მოვლენაა.
ჯოისის "ულისე", ბროხის "მთვარეულები", ჰესეს "თამაში რიოში მარგალიტებით" , მანის "ჯადოსნური მთა" ან "დოქტორი ფაუსტუსი" და ა.შ.
ამ დიდი ავტორების დიდ წიგნთა შორის, ვფიქრობ, მუზილი და "უთვისებო კაცი" თავის ღირსეულ ადგილს იკავებს.
ესაა ეპოქის ტილო , შესაძლოა, არა ისეთი მრავალფეროვანი ნარატივით, როგორიც ზემოთდასახელებული ავტორებისაა, მაგრამ უთუოდ ზუსტად გადმოცემული.
ულრიხი - უთვისებო კაცი და ავსტრიის უთვისებო იმპერია - უსაყრდენო და ჩარჩენილი ძველისა და ახლის გარდამავალ ფაზაში.
ერთი სიტყვით, გვერდიდან გვერდამდე, სხვადასხვა იდეოლოგია და მსოფლხედველობა, ფილოსოფია და ადამიანური ვნებები ერთმანეთს ასკდებიან და ამ ორომტრიალში დგას ( თუმცა უსაყრდენოდ) უთვისებო კაცი, რაღაც გაურკვევლისა და დიადის მოლოდინში.
This is the type of novel in which the characters like to lecture each other, and the narrator (the worst character) is constantly lecturing you.
Seldom is a subject mentioned for which the narrator doesn’t produce an exasperating mini-lesson.
The main character, the pouty Ulrich, is kind of like a sad replay of the “nihilist” in Turgenev’s Fathers and Sons, who believed in nothing aside from the importance of studying frogs.
But not Ulrich.”The middling (or lower) reality of The Man Without Qualities is in stark relief to the baffling hype that surrounds it and the lazy, incomprehensible comparisons to two novels that are in a different class altogether—James [Name Redacted:]’s [Title Redacted:] and Marcel [Name Redacted:]’s [Title Redacted:]—works that really should not be mentioned around Musil’s novel.
Some books suck me in and I can't put them down until I've finished.
Other books hang over my head like an incomplete homework assignment.
This one started out like homework, but ended up as addicting as any great story.
I believe I read this book over the course of a year and a half, picking it up and putting it down.
The story didn't grab me at first, but I kept coming back for the great one-liners.
This may be one of the most quotable novels I've ever read.
In any case, it's a slow build, but it's certainly worth sticking with until the end.
It seemed to Ulrich that with the beginning of his adult life a general lull had set in, a gradual running down, in spite of occasional eddies of energy that came and went, to an ever more listless, erratic rhythm.
Just between ourselves: people threw their support to the weak and ignored the strong; sometimes blockheads played leading roles while brilliant men played the part of eccentrics; the good Germanic citizen, untroubled by history's labor pains, which he dismissed as decadent and morbid excrescences, went on reading his family magazines and visited the crystal palaces and academies in vastly greater numbers than he did the avant-garde exhibitions.
Perhaps it isn't fair to review this work at the end of Vol. 1, but since Goodreads separates the two volumes, I'll give a midway assessment of the story up to now.
The characters are believable, to be sure, but the story line becomes almost too post-modernist, in the sense of emulating the type of Roberto Bolano or David Foster Wallace work where nothing much happens.
This is alleviated at the very end of the first volume of the novel, but it took pseudoreality 650 pages to prevail!
If you have the patience, and are a fan of the Pynchon-Gaddis-Wallace style of writing, you can't afford not to read Musil's little-known masterpiece.
Life has stopped me somehow to embark upon the six (or is it seven?) volumes of Proust, or tomes of Mellville or Cervantes as yet , but having the opportunity to read Musil's masterpiece while I am still alive was an amazing experience.
I am not sure how it would ever be possible to reproduce the literary experiment of Musil in all its complexity; in other words, how one can write a novel so enriched with ideological discourse is infinitely beyond me.
I am barely into the second volume and know that there is no end as such; however, I can't stop wondering at this magnificent Austrian mind.
Ha sido un gran esfuerzo para mí leer esta novela, sin duda una obra maestra por la calidad y hondura del texto.
Sin embargo debo confesar que mis conocimientos de filosofía y psicología no dan la talla que exige un texto tan abstracto en largas disertaciones, sin duda cargadas de reflexiones profundas.
En muchas ocasiones he tenido que leer en diagonal cuando la historia se paraba y empezaba la espiral de reflexiones sobre el comportamiento humano...
A pesar de eso, la novela tiene un gran sentido del humor que la hace agradable y te empuja a seguir leyendo.
Shakespeare'in "olağanüstü zenginliği," Goethe'nin "evrenselliği," Dostoyevski'nin "psikolojik derinliği," ve uzun bir yazınsal gelişimin geride bıraktığı bütün öteki düşünceler, yazanların kafasını tıka basa doldurmuştur, ve bu kişiler sırf stok fazlasından ötürü bugün bir tenisçiyi bile derinlikli ya da moda olmuş bir şairi büyük diye adlandırmaktadırlar.
Ama bu kişi, önemi artık bir olguya dönüşmüş bir adam olmalıdır; sözcüklerin o adamda yerli yerinde oturdukları, bu yerin neresi olduğu hiç önem taşımasa bile, ancak o zaman anlaşılabilir." 506"Neredeyse ayaklarının altındaki yerkürenin döndüğünün bilincine ansızın vardığı ve kendini bundan bir türlü kurtaramadığı da söylenebilirdi; ...
I kept buying it, renting it from libraries, borrowing copies from other Musil admirers, reading it everywhere from broken down buses in Denver blizzards, the Brown Jug in San Francisco after a long night out while dawn crept in, on the plane to Oakland, in the particularly grotesque lower Manhattan DMV, but I always ended up passing it on to those with good taste or just left it behind somewhere before I got the chance to finish Vol. 1.
The category this book fits into includes having a smile on the face throughout, bursts of hilarity, and that serious use of comedy which reveals the absurdity of human behaviour.
As today, the loss of values gives rise to absurd metaphysical beliefs in the soul, the lofty spirit, the future, the past, science and rationalism, irrationlism, superstition, pompous pontificating, the maintenance of a savage social order, all the necessary elements of fascism, and something hovering my absence (without qualities) that may provide hope but of which it would be folly to write for all that is written and thought is ossified into trinkets and ornaments.
This is an epic from the mind of a mathematician and a strict analytic philosopher who becomes ensconced in the aristocracy of Austro-Hungarian Empire in the years of its final disintegration leading up to the first World War. Ulrich is the man without qualities, the sharp minded observer and provocateur around whom the plot and characters revolve.
Much of the novel is a funny satire of a culture on the decline; it is also a philosophical dialogue between diverging antitheses.
Among them Ulrich, boosted by his father who despaired to see him climb the social ladder, dubbed the "man without qualities" through knowledge for its total lack of commitment to the values of his time.This synopsis does however serve as a pretext for Musil.
Thus the famous committee, despite the great minds who made it, remains desperately barren: the discussions circling each participant tries to impose its worldview to others and nothing concrete comes out, if it does is a "meeting for the establishment of a committee to identify future action tracks."This book is complex and demanding, but some passages are so tasty that your efforts will be amply rewarded.
It’s a simple statement; a distinguishing quality of literature is its capacity to make you think and feel. And with this, Volume 1 of The Man Without Qualities, I thought and felt, greatly, insanely, and perhaps more than any before it.
Çok emek harcadım, yavaş yavaş okudum, tüm enerjimi bu kitaba verdim ancak...Yok arkadaş olmadı, hiç bir şey anlamadım. Dünyanın en ağır felsefe kitabı yahu.
