https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1476665.When_the_World_Screamed
When the World Screamed was a story written about Professor Challenger by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. It was first published in Liberty Magazine, 25 February-3 March 1928.blurbifications - Professor Challenger, with the help of Mr Edward Malone and Mr Peerless Jones, drills into the earth until he reaches the mantle, convinced that it is a sentient being, akin to an echinus, and that by doing so he will be the first person to alert it to mankind's presence. He awakens the giant creature, which then proceeds to destroy his excavation, covering the spectators with a noxious liquid in the process.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's irascible academic sets out on a bold mission to be recognised by Mother Earth. Stars Bill Paterson.
The earth being a colossal entity and poked by Professor Challenger through its 8 mile crust is as good as a short story can get.
Better than The Land of Mist. The Land of Mist almost ruined Professor Challenger for me.
Published two years after  The Land of Mist , "When the Earth Screamed" actually has more in common with the earlier Challenger novel,  The Poison Belt , since both deal with the concept of the "ether" and the earth's reaction to it. In this latest story, Challenger has become even more pugnacious and intolerable, reaching full "cartoon" status. The plot is simple and goofy: the earth is a living organism that doesn't realize humans exist -- much like a person doesn't realize a mosquito exists o
, since both deal with the concept of the "ether" and the earth's reaction to it.
The plot is simple and goofy: the earth is a living organism that doesn't realize humans exist -- much like a person doesn't realize a mosquito exists on its skin until the mosquito bores into the skin (this is Challenger's comparison).
One final side note: Challenger mentions his wife being alive at the beginning of the story, which suggests either that Doyle forgot he killed her off in The Land of the Mist or is purposely setting this story before the events of that novel.
I choose to believe the latter, which would place this story closer in chronology to the The Poison Belt.
Fascinating little short story.First person narration (not by Malone).We meet up once again with Malone and Challenger during a very secretive environmental experiment.Don't read this book expecting another Lost World. I think that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle appreciated that an adventure like that only happens one in a life time and to repeat such an epic over again would be unbelievable. I like the fact that the Challenger series follows a realistic (if you can apply that term to a sci-fi series) tone in the fact that their adventures are unrelated one offs, rather than repetitive events.
Professor Challenger is funnier if you imagine him as a silent film character.
Now we know why he kept with Sherlock - although I love the idea of Gaia.
This is the fourth story featuring Doyle's lunatic genius scientist Professor Challenger.
This is only a short story rather than a novel but like the previous Challenger stories it is based upon one brilliant idea.
He decides that like an echinus the world is one giant living creature with a hard outer shell.
He plans to drill through this hard shell and touch the creature inside.
But it doesn't have a proper story to share that concept within and even with a few moments of the brilliant character that is Professor Challenger it's simply a great idea shoved into an underwhelming story.
For the past several years, I have made a point of reading & finishing one of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's book on the anniversary of his birth.
The past many years, it has been one of his other famous creations - Professor Challenger.
Well, with this one, I now have finish the last of Doyle's works (there are others out there, but no one by Doyle).
Why - because he believes the earth is a living creature and he wants to be the first to let it know that humans exist on the planet and he, Professor Challenger, is the only one brave enough, smart enough, and daring enough to be the flea to this giant creature.
Honestly, I should have stopped after The Poison Belt. The last book was ridiculous, and I wouldn't have finished this except it was only 30 pages. These just get crazier the further they go.
Just a fun short adventure story. Not very great. It was ok. Much better than the propaganda of the Land of Mists that I didn't get very far in.
Ok short story about Challenger trying to "wake up " the earth by drilling a hole in it.
Por el otro lado Challenger, la mente mas brillante de europa, pero a la vez un salvaje, que debio haber nacido en la época del coliseo romano donde destrozaria craneos con sus manos desnudas y serìa aclamado por ello, pareciera resolver el problema final en un heuristica omnicomprensiva donde ya no existe oposición entre saber y vida, sino que ambos se conjugan en una suerte de impasse ontológico.Holmes es un marginado, la mente de un filósofo o un científico y sin embargo vive en las profundidades, en un mundo de cloacas, laberintos, crimen, engaño, ilusión.
This collection contained the final 3 stories of the Professor Challenger series that Conan Doyle wrote.
When the World Screamed was an interesting and fast read - mostly entertaining because of the irascible temper of Professor Challenger.
The Disintegration Machine was interesting but felt a bit short and quickly wound up.
At one point Conan Doyle even has Professor Challenger debate with a known spiritualist and in essence attempts to answer all the arguments against it.
Overall the collection isn't his strongest, and unfortunately lectures a bit too much.
Volume II Professor Challenger AdventuresLesser effort from Doyle, near the end of his writing career and his life, is dominated by "The Land of Mist", a short novel about Spiritism.
Doyle as at this time of his life a devoted believer in Spiritism (See Martin Booth's The Doctor and the Detective: A Biography of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle) and he lets his advocacy of it get in the way of his story-telling sense, as he reports various psychic events in a near-journalistic and far too credulous style.
This just isn't good writing.In addition, the story has not aged well, as this kind of popular spiritism was a short-lived historical phenomenon.
Doyle used his Challenger character to spread some of his more weird ideas and opinions.
The idea here is that Earth is a living being that can be hurt.
Beneath the surface of stone lies the real skin of Earth.
Guests of honor, journalists, his friends – all are invited to witness the piercing of Earth.
Then, the world screams.Towards the end of his life as a writer, Doyle was fascinated by obscure ideas most prominently featured in the Challenger novel “Land of Mist” which is a eulogy for spiritualism.
When the world screamed has to be seen in this context and is a dispensable short story.

While Sherlock Holmes remains the most celebrated of Doyle's creations, Professor Challenger was his personal favorite. Challenger is an irascible old fellow, eccentric and hard-headed and gruff and bearded. He features also in "The Lost World," and apparently a dinosaur - Irritator challengeri - was named in his honor in 1996. The Challenger stories take a turn for the really weird (and less satisfying) when Doyle becomes enthralled by Spiritualism.
I know I should be more fair about Doyle and not Judge his other books by Sherlock Holmes but I can't help it. This book is a lot like the Valley of Fear but without any cool ending by Sherlock Holmes. I think I also started in the wrong order and this is another book of another Character introduced in other books. I will keep trying.
not my favourite story for this series. (view spoiler)[drilling hole to the earth core just to proof that the earth is a gigantic sea urchin like lifeform? (hide spoiler)]i know this is just sci-fi but this plot is just …………
I didn't know anything about this book when I started reading it, so I had no idea just how literal the title is! A brilliant 60-page story. I look forward to my next Professor Challenger adventure!
Read the feedbooks ePub version: http://www.feedbooks.com/book/355
More challenging garbage.
The Classic Tales Podcast
Not only is this not one of Arthur Conan Doyle's best, it is probably one of his worst.
Though the story sees earth from a completely different and bizarre perspective, if fails to amaze. But it is not bad either. Don't have high expectations.
And thus an attempt to penetrate earth's bowels?A very short classic adventure tale by Doyle featuring the likes of Professor Challenger.
I listened to the audio (The Classic Tales Podcast) and didn't much like it. I thought it was rather different from the first two books starring professor Challenger.
