https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30324.Blood_and_Chocolate
**this is not a float - i have been ordered to edit this review to include something "necessary"i was watching the runaways last week, and in the bonus-feature interviews, dakota fanning was all wide-eyed exclaiming how she was so excited to finally get to act in a period piece.and i died a little inside.but so this book, from 1997, predates twilight but somehow it involves a werewolf love story.
add to that a vicious female protagonist who will literally claw your eyes out if you get in her way, and i think we have a winner.* also suspicious is the mother in this book is named esmé like the mother in that tremendously popular teen vampire series; a name i used to love.
Vivian thinks of men like they're meat.
Some of those male eyes strayed to Vivian, too, and she preened at the thought of being a threat.
This guy makes Jacob, Sam, and Edward look like cushy Teletubbies.
If all werewolves are like this, and Gabe is pretty mild, Emily got away easy.
Gabe is a creep, yet somehow this book gets praised as being everything Twilight isn't.
Like Twilight, this book doesn't gain an actual plot until the last fifty pages.
She makes Bella look like Hermione Granger -- an intelligent female character.
And this book reads just like them.
It was the first time a seemingly simple plot with overdone fictional monsters actually dealt with what it was to be human.
I hold much respect for Vivian, the protagonist.
Are we all not trying to hide a part of ourselves from the world?
Don't we not fight with our parents and try to rebel for no real reason?
I loved that she wasn't skinny, awkward, or socially inept.
It had its own sense of internal dialogue, a way of connecting the protagonist's beliefs and the writing.
Yes, it was awkward at times but it is not supposed to be our world.
You know, the side where your teenage friend is shagging your Mum, and you Mum and someone else's mum are publicly lusting after and fighting over the same guy who is TOTALLY way too young for them.Then the good part comes when your sixteen year old self is fated to match said young specimen who still manages to be six years older than your sixteen year old self.I imagine their wedding will look something like this.[image error]Not pictured: shame.Of course werewolves aren't my favourite supernatural creatures to read about.
And creepiest of all, Gabriel, the 24-year-old head wolf, is after her to be his mate--although that doesn't stop him from sleeping with her 40-year-old mom throughout the book.
(Gabriel is actually the most interesting and likable character, except for that icky sleeping with mom thing.) I don't care if you're a werewolf or not, bad behavior is bad behavior.
I can't adequately express how awful scenes like this are, and how surprised I am that more people are not taken aback by the book's content and writing.This book would be an annoying enough if it were written for adults, but being that it's meant for teenagers, I find the whole thing pretty outrageous.
With the exception of Aiden, the human boy Vivian wants to bed, every character in the book behaves like a rapaciously sex-starved porn star locked permanently in his/her 40's.
Not to mention the incredibly inappropriate relationship between Vivian and Gabriel, the 24-year-old head of her clan.
It really skeezed me out, and I can't tell you how shocked I was to google Klause this morning and find out the woman is not only a librarian who "specializes" in young adult fiction, but is actually head of children's services at a Maryland community library.
Good GOD, I would not want this woman recommending books to my children.
This brilliant, sexy YA, did urban fantasy before we knew that's what it was called. Please don't judge it by the abysmal movie version, the book is nothing like that dross. It's romantic, fast paced, a true insight into what it might be to be a teen girl, and a werewolf. The main character is strong, powerful, and has a genuine path to self actualization and independence. We should be so lucky as to have young girls read and want to be Vivian. I adore this book.
Blood and Chocolate was a book that I didn't totally like the first time around--I wasn't exactly sure how I felt about it, to be honest.
Just being daughter of the Alpha was a position that demanded respect, and Vivian had been treated accordingly--in fact, until her father died the entire pack celebrated her birthday.The thing is, during my second read, I realized I quite liked that Annette Curtis Klaus allowed her main character to suffer, struggle.
In fact, she reacts in a downright scary manner.In the end, I came to the conclusion that I liked Blood and Chocolate because the main character gets over her heartbreak and even moves on.
Blood and Chocolate is a well-loved YA werewolf novel, and I've been meaning to read it for the last decade.
Vivian is a 16-year-old werewolf who's torn between her pack and fitting in with the human world (and a human boy).
And for the coup de grâce of stupidity, when Vivian is accused by the police of vandalism, a 24-year-old pack member provides an alibi - he tells the cops that they were having sex all night.
A 24-year old...tells the cops...that he was screwing an underage high schooler.
Werewolf novels can be written much, much better than this (see Kelley Armstrong's Bitten).
Actually read this well after I had watched the movie but still could not put this down! This is different enough from the movie that I would recommend anyone that even moderately enjoyed the movie go pick this one up!
Stick with your own kind, people will never accept what is different.
I hated that after the human boy and his friends turn out to be haters, that somehow equals: never venture outside anything that is different.
It didn't feel like accepting yourself for being what you are if you have to lump absolutely everyone else into one category and hide with only those who are the same.
Their werewolf society was definitely fucked up and scary (like compounds with guns scary).
What started out a good story about a werewolf girl venturing outside known violence and primitive rules turns giant steps backwards to hiding in fear of what is different.
Wow. This was a book I didn't want to read. My book club voted for it so I thought to myself 'fiiiiiine' and as it turns out I absolutely loved it.Side note; Is this really a stand alone?! I disapprove.
la pelicula narraba la vida de Vivian una mujer loba que vivia en Rumania con su tia y que pronto iba ascender a reina loba porque el lider de la manada la habia elegido ya que esta jovencita , 19 años, y guapa.
aun no me habia enterado acerca de que los libros no son iguales a las peliculas .
el libro es bueno , de hecho a medida que leia lo veia como una trama sencilla pero honesta.
me ha molestado de sobremanera la forma en como la pelicula cambió muchas cosas del libro.
Blegh..such a rad title!
Yet Klause didn't pull it off.
Unfortunately he was pretty much condemned to the periphery.
Because the heroine, Vivian, had just as little luck escaping her cardboard persona.
Klause spent a lot of time fussing about her long blond hair, long legs and overall prettiness.
Speaking of fussing: as far as I'm concerned this book is PERFECTLY suitable for young teens.
I don't get this "fuzz" about inappropriate (sex) scenes.
- but I didn't detect a single scene that got even close to explicitness.
I probably would have been stuck with Little House on the Prairie material instead.
Αυτό το βιβλίο δεν μου άρεσε. Δεν είναι ότι δεν ανυπομονούσα απλώς να το διαβάζω, αλλά ότι βαριόμουν να διαβάζω ολόκληρες τις σελίδες, οπότε πηδούσα αρκετές! Οι λόγοι είναι πολλοί, οι ήρωες, όλοι τους, είναι αντιπαθητικοί, πχ. η πρωταγωνίστρια πολλές φορές συμπεριφερόταν σαν εμμονικό σχιζοφρενικό πλάσμα. Η αφήγηση είναι πεζή, η ατμόσφαιρα… ποια ατμόσφαιρα; Δεν έχει ατμόσφαιρα! Δεν έχει ωραίο love story, ούτε γενικώς η πλοκή με κέρδισε. Θα το πω, η ταινία είναι κλάσης ανώτερη. Μεσαιωνική μυστηριακή ατμόσφαιρα, οι χαρακτήρες είναι πιο συμπαθητικοί και ταίριαξαν κάπως την σοκολάτα του τίτλου (στο βιβλίο πάντως δεν κατάλαβα πως κόλαγε)
Reread Review 5/15/18: 1 / 5 starsSpoiler free review/discussion/gripe can be found here: https://youtu.be/ZN2DXVxI4JI
Klause poetically describes the violence and sensuality of the pack lifestyle, creating a hot-blooded heroine who puts the most outrageous riot grrrls to shame. Blood and Chocolate is a masterpiece of adolescent angst wrapped in wolf's clothing, and its lovely, sensuous taste is sure to be sweet on the teenage tongue. (Ages 13 and older) --Jennifer Hubert Does this sound like a book for 13 year olds? Was she Aiden's soulmate? Vivian wondered up in her room. Wouldn't she know if she were? Maybe
Blood and Chocolate is a masterpiece of adolescent angst wrapped in wolf's clothing, and its lovely, sensuous taste is sure to be sweet on the teenage tongue.
Doesn't sound like a book for young adults, right?
She feels that Aiden understands her, despite not knowing what she is since he did write a poem about werewolves.
But Vivian in her wolf form wasn't enough for Aiden to love her.____However, despite me not recommending this book to young adults, this book is enjoyable.
I've bypassed this book quite a few times when I've come across it at a bootsale or in a charity shop etc and it's been overlooked because of one thing....I didn't realise it was about werewolves.
The characters are believable, the shape shifter culture is well rounded and Vivian's world comes alive on the page.I've got the film on DVD here too but I haven't watched it yet.
I don't know the first thing about the film other than it's nothing like the book, I've avoided reading anything about it so I'll be going in blind :D I'm looking forward to it though...
I know a lot of people like this book, and the author is a fairly well known dark fantasy writer, from what I can tell.
I just couldn't relate to the aggressive, arrogant, overtly sexual outlook she took on a lot of things.
Gabe, who ends up being the leading man, is made out to be the epitome of an arrogant, lustful, possibly abusive older guy...and yet you're supposed to believe the main character later becomes intensely attracted to him, pretty much because he's rough with her.
It was a pretty dark fantasy all right, but the morals and characters just seemed skewed and unlikable to me.
I really liked this book , I thought it was much , much better than the other one I've read by her The Silver Kiss .
Some people will probably be against this book being categorized under YA because of the sexual content ; but I thought it was really good for the main character to know that she's pretty/ hott and not be all self-doubting like girls in a lot of other YA books .
Initally I had this as four stars , but I just keeep thinking about it even when I'm reading something else .
Soo I'm changing it to five stars !
This review is also posted on my blog. (view spoiler)[Well, I’m glad I reread that.I’m also kind of disappointed, though. I read it for the first and only time at 14, and I remember ADORING it. It was my very first paranormal romance ever. It’s been a favorite ever since, and I figured I’d give it another go around now that I’m older and understand more.And I have to say I’m really kind of let down. While there are several things about it I really liked, enough to give it four stars - the writi
While there are several things about it I really liked, enough to give it four stars - the writing style, Vivian herself as a person and as a character, how werewolves were given form, the fact that I still have memories of how much I originally loved it and what it did to me - there were several other unforgivable flaws.Like the complete overflowing of toxic masculinity and typical male entitlement and sexual harassment that went entirely unaddressed other than blanket statements of ‘you’re a jerk’ 'he’s a jerk’ 'men are jerks’ that leave the whole point of the problem ignored and untouched.
Blood and Chocolate basically jumped from the shelf, straight into my hands… and without really knowing what or why, I figured it was probably meant to be and was determined to find out what this was all about.
Perhaps I just skip the blood and find myself a piece of chocolate in the kitchen instead?It’s THEN when I started scrolling through the reviews here on Goodreads.
In the end, they see a lot worse than this in their favorite music clips or the lyrics are far more explicit than what they’d read in this book!Another big thank you!
This book is nothing like Twilight.
I found it on a booklist for Twilight read-alikes, and I understand why it was included, I’m just saying – it’s not like Twilight.
In fact, if you didn’t like Twilight, you may like this book.
Whereas Bella’s relationship with her family is peripheral, Viviane is surrounded by family.
She’s part of a pack after all.
She’s a werewolf.
In the end Viviane’s dilemna is not far from Bella’s; she wishes she could have a friend outside the pack.
I didn’t like this one because it’s too transparent.
Will Never Give a Second Thought...until right..now.This was about as realistic as there being any sort of real justice in the world. Like the kind I want right...now. [image error]Oh, photoshop. What a comfort you are to me in these weary days! But still. Definitely never going to happen. Though having that special someone being taken out? I'll bet on that.[image error]
Dublje - nema*Osobni osvtDa imam priliku postaviti jedno pitanje ovoj spisateljici, pitala bih je zna li što je to karakterizacija likova.
Ne mislim biti bezobrazna, ali zaista nisam potpuno sigurna shvaća li spisateljica to jer likovi u ovom romanu ne samo da su plošni, nego uopće nisu vjerodostojni.
A što se tiče ostalih likova, o njima znamo još manje (čitajte: ništa).
I što onda imate u cijelom romanu?
Radnju koja je u redu za jedan fantasy, čopor vukodlaka, nekoliko ljudi i..?
Roman je pisan u trećem licu, što ja inače volim, ali ovdje je to kaotično.
The weather being very bad here these days, I'm depressed.
The writing was bad, Anne Frank writes better for a 14 year old.
Here are some examples: (view spoiler)[ Gabriel, the 20 something head wolf, wants Vivian, the protagonist, to be his mate, meanwhile he continues to sleep with her 40-year-old mother, Vivian at one point licks the sweat off Aidan's face, Vivian is obsessed with sex and her mother watches her opening gifts of lingerie for birthday?!
Plus points: A surprising ending (for those who are aware of the Twilight plot) The love story is in the sub plot The story does carry a massage.
Vivian and her pack are trying to survive in a world where there are fewer and fewer places for those like her to live.Her mother's name is Esme!
Living in a quiet suburb in Maryland, 16-tear-old Vivian finds herself longing for typical teen things and wants some normal friends.
When she decides to pursue a boy at school, things start to fall apart in her world.What I think I enjoyed most about the book was the portrayal of the werewolves.
I will say I didn't much care for reading about her licking the sweat off Aidan's face or lapping at his bath water.
Other than that, a fun read.
Vivian surely has made her decision and picks up the right guy."Why would we even be attracted to one of them?" she asked."Lots of reasons," he said absently as he gazed longingly at her lips.
"They look like us, at least what we look like sometimes, and when you're lonely—”"But they're not like us," Vivian broke in.
They are talking about human, and finally, they choose their own kind.
Vampire-Human.
Ghost-Human.
Werewolf-Human.
Dhampir-Human.
Fairy-Human.
Shapeshifter-Human.
Blood and Chocolate invites you to get into a young werewolf's mind, how she struggles to choose between sweet blood and comforting chocolate.
I absolutely love this book.
Vivian is a teenage werewolf in a splintering pack.
And because the pack is a mess, she turns to a human boy (a meat-boy) to focus her attentions on.
The focus of the story is Vivian and what path will she choose.
She *loves* being a werewolf, but hates the conflict in the pack as a new leader struggles to the top.
In contrast, she looks down upon humans in general, but at the same time, she envies them for their simplicity.The title refers to a poem and also Vivian's internal conflict.
Blood (werewolf) or chocolate (human-kind)?I think Vivian is such a strong, amazing heroine.
I know how old the protagonist is supposed to be, but is that level of recklessness and stupidity really normal or even realistic considered the circumstances?The reaction especially of the human characters seemed often pretty forced (respectively out of character) and Vivian didn't come along as very likeable as well.I came to this book because it was mentioned in a thesis paper as being very progressive and feminist and I must say that I don't see that, at all.
What I mean with him being a dick?Like Vivian he, in his words, mistook the desire to protect and dominate for love, no idea how, and so had a relationship with a human girl/woman.
