https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17779550-last-train-to-istanbul
I say finally because it took me too long due to a busy period...It also took me long because, well, it's a very interesting story, but I must also say, it's not very well written.
Maybe I'm annoying, but it really spoiled my pleasure in reading.The story had a lot of potential, and it was quite good.
The parts set in France and on the train, on the other hand, are enjoyable and well written, and tell a good story as well as create a nice set of rather well-defined characters.
Advanced Reader's Copy(ARC) - uncorrected proof - from NetGalley. Pages: 442------------------------Istandbul, Ankara, Paris 1941.  "Spring arrived hand-in-hand with sorrow."  Turkey was between a rock and a hard place. Britain demanded them to become an ally; Germany was threatening; Russia wanted Kars, Ardahan, the Bosphorus, and the Dardanelles. Choosing the losing side would have had dire consequences for Turkey. They learnt their lesson well after the first world war.It was not only a unset
They learnt their lesson well after the first world war.It was not only a unsettling time for Turkey, but also for Macit Bey. His wife, Sabiha, a girl who loved picnics and watching horse racing, suddenly turned away from life, as well as her motherly - and marriage duties.
Rafo was Jewish, and his marriage to Selva ripped both families apart.
Fazil, the Muslim patriarch, rejected his daughter, and Rafo's Jewish family refused to accept Selva.The couple fled to France where they hoped to start a new life - both as exiles of their families.Hitler's rise brought fear to all the countries.
It's definitely one of those books that are simply too good that you do not want them to end *sigh* I really want more!the more you progress into the story the more you get emotionally attached, at the second half of the book I simply felt I was one of the passengers on the train...If you're interested to know how the Germans treated Jews at the WW2 period or if you are interested in Turkish literature this book if for you.
The synopsis is rather incorrect because it misleads you to believe that this is mainly the story about a couple.
It's more a collection of stories about Turkish people and how WW2 and the Holocaust affected them.
It's a different view that most Americans don't know about - how many of us even think of how that time period affected Turkey?
But I can't help but think that could be due to translation.
It might take you a few chapters to get fully immersed in this book, but if you're interested in history and different cultures, then I do recommend it.
“Think carefully. We only have one life to live. We alone are responsible for it.”   The main theme of this book is amazing and heart-breaking but I just couldn't stand most of the characters and thought that Kulin portrayed them a bit too psychologically dramatic for my understandings. The writing, or it was maybe the Serbian translation of it, left me feeling uneasy and awkward at times. I just think that this book is probably just not my cup of tea. It would probably make a good movie, thou
“Think carefully.
We only have one life to live.
We alone are responsible for it.” 
The main theme of this book is amazing and heart-breaking but I just couldn't stand most of the characters and thought that Kulin portrayed them a bit too psychologically dramatic for my understandings.
I just think that this book is probably just not my cup of tea.
It would probably make a good movie, though.Koliko se kod nas piše o Ajše Kulin mislila sam da ću biti oduševljena knjigom ali mi se, nažalost, nije baš dopala.
I consider it my duty, then, to read it – but not to give it a good review, sorry friend.
Finally, I have a problem with the book overall – the author wanted to celebrate the Turkish diplomats who managed to get Turkish and non-Turkish Jews out of Nazi-occupied Europe, and indeed that’s an interesting subject.
Worse, she portrays all the Jews in the story as completely helpless, a prey to panic, perhaps trying to whip up pity to highlight to good deeds of those who saved “these poor people”.
This is a great story, very poorly told.
I love both Istanbul and Paris, both featured in this book, however the writing is horrendous.
It reads as if it was translated by someone with only sixth grade level English using a Turkish-English dictionary and a book of English language idioms and clichès.
However, I don't think all the blame should lay at the feet of the translator, because the book is also full of too many undeveloped characters and dangling plot threads.
I thank a friend for recommending it for the new knowledge I gained, I only wish the read had been more enjoyable.
4+Još jedan roman iz pera turske autorice Ayse Kulin u kojoj opisuje sudbinu Jevreja u Francuskoj za vrijeme II Svjetskog rata.
U centru priče su Selva i Rafo Alfandari koji nakon vjenčanja odlaze iz Turske bježeći od porodica koji ne odobravaju brak između muslimanke i Jevreja.
Daleko od porodica započinju novi život, dobivaju sina, a onda počinje rat koji se munjevitom brzinom širi.
Sa druge strane pratimo situaciju u Turskoj i život Sevlvine sestre Sabihe koja ne može da se pomiri sa odsustvom Selve.
Roman koji prikazuje bliskost ljudi koji dijele istu nesreću :)
Un roman mediocru, scris destul de superficial, lipsit de substanță.
3.5 stars. It was a slow plot, with the synopsis not really starting till the middle, and sounding more adventurous than it was. None of the characters were incredibly likable, but were interesting and dynamic. It was interesting to see this perspective of WWII, especially from a culture so different than my own, and one often left out (unfortunately) of history books/classes (in my experience).
Selva potrebbe tornare nel paese in quanto musulmana, e non avendo fatto circoncidere il figlio portarlo via con sé (cosa che crea problemi a Rafo: ha deciso lui di non seguire il rituale della sua fede per non mettere il bambino in pericolo, e tuttavia la cosa gli crea problemi), ma si fa registrare il nuovo passaporto come moglie di ebreo per orgoglio, determinata a non abbandonare il marito, ancora forse non consapevole del pericolo a cui si sta esponendo.
I believe life is only worth living if, while we’re on earth, we can do honorable things.” “Last Train to Istanbul” is a phenomenal WWII novel set in Turkey and France, with one of the elements being a love story, and another being clandestine extractions of Jews via the Turkish government and foreign ministers aided by private citizens, from certain imprisonment/annihilation carried out by the Vichy as ordered by Hitler.
They made no attempts to stab their hosts in the back like the other minorities.” However interesting, this isn't a historical tome on Turkey or the migration of Jews.
Υποθέτω όμως ότι επειδή γενικότερα είμαι πολύ μετρημένη με τις αγορές μου το ένστικτο ευτυχώς για ακόμα μια φορά λειτούργησε σωστά και παρόλο που η αλήθεια είναι είχα φανταστεί στο μυαλό μου μια τελείως διαφορετική ιστορία τελικά η ιστορία αποδείχτηκε ακόμα πιο βαθιά και συγκινητική Διαβάζοντας κανείς την περίληψη περιμένει ότι θα διαβάσει περισσότερο μια ρομαντική ιστορία με τα βάσανα ενός ζευγαριού κυνηγημένου από τον ίδιο του τον κοινωνικό περίγυρο Στην πραγματικότητα ήταν κάτι πολύ παραπάνω.
Παρόλο που το βιβλίο μάλλον τα πρόσωπα της ιστορίας δεν είναι υπαρκτά αλλά προϊόν της φαντασίας της συγγραφέως κατάφερε να με αγγίξει γιατί βασίστηκε σε αληθινά γεγονότα που αποτελούν και για μας λίγο σαν ένα μάθημα ιστορίας.
Granted, the underlying story is one of politics, but the author smartly chooses, during the first half of the book, to inform us of only what we need to know about the history of immigration/religion and about how and why these Turkish citizens are now in France and want to leave.
But the author then, inexplicably, piles on more politics, then introduces more new characters.
Eventually, though, we do get back on track: the story fulfills its original premise as the train ride is intense and full of surprises.
At 250 pages, with characters we like and an exciting premise, this book would have been so much better.
Review here
The novel is set in World War II period when Jews suffered under Hitler's reign.
The story starts in Istanbul with two sisters, siblings rivalry/jealousy, their aspirations, and insecurities.
When Selva, the younger sister, decided to marry a Jew, family is rift apart and Sabiha, the older sister, is torn apart with guiltiness affecting her marriage life.
Story then shift to Paris where Jews fall victims to the war atrocities.
Fearing for Selva's husband's life, the family decided to board last train to Istanbul carrying people, Turkish and non-Turkish, with Turkish passports revealing the humanity across nation and religion.
Love this book. Set during World War II, this book describes the obstacles Jews had to overcome during the war and the graciousness of one nation and its citizens who tried to save them, interwoven with long traditions and beautiful love stories. Highly recommend to anyone who likes historical fiction.
I haven't read a book with such a bad translation in a very long time!
Knowing Turkish (albeit not good enough to read a whole novel) I usually could guess at the original sentence and this knowledge made the mistakes in translation seem more obvious to me.
This is a common saying in Turkish that doesn't mean that the friendship existed for forty year but it's simply a way to refer to a very long friendship.
This mistake is so notable because earlier in the novel it was mentioned that both characters are very young - between 25-30 years old.
I felt like it was going to be a gentle love story with touches of war related drama.
It was like a mini story within the story and completely confused me.Generally, I understood what the story was about: A family separated – one sister in France, the other in Istanbul with her parents.
The sister in France, along with hundreds of other Turkish nationals (and a few who aren’t but are traveling on fake passports) seek to escape the war by traveling on a train from Paris to Istanbul over the course of ten days or so.
Sabiha follows her culture's expectations by marrying a man of the same faith and who has high ambitions within the new Turkish government.
Selva follows her heart, marrying Rafael ...
and soon enough the Vichy government is rounding up Jews to send them to camps at Drancy.This is the set-up for the plot that involves the Turkish government's documented provision of a single railroad carriage to get its citizens out of France and back to their neutral homeland.The characters feature members of the government, collaborators and resisters ...
in other words, the cast you would expect to be involved in a story set in this place and time.
The historical aspects covered by this novel makes reading this book worthwhile.
I was not aware that the Ottoman empire based in Turkey opened her doors to the Spanish Jews in the 15th century so they could escape the persecution of the Catholic King Ferdinand II.
Then in WWII Turkey was again instrumental in helping many Jews escape the persecution of Hitler's genocidal policies.The culmination of the book is the escape of a 100 or so people on a train from Paris to Istanbul.
The story just lacked characters to warm too nor was it able to build any drama or suspense.
I found this fascinating as I was really unaware of Turkey's role in World War II.The family drama part of this book is good but takes a very long time to lay out and I found myself drifting at the beginning of the book and unwilling to read more than a few pages at a time.
I also found Sabiha a bit over the top in her high drama, but that may be just me.This is one of the Read the World books from Amazon and given the cost, I feel it is deserving of its high marks.
But France is soon invaded by Germany and Paris becomes the center of Vichy France.
Selva and Rafo move further south to Marseilles in an attempt to escape the rounding up of Jews but to no avail as every day Jewish men, women and children live in fear of being rounded up never to be seen again.
The story traces the courage and humanity of Turkish diplomats who risked their lives to help Turkish Jews and non-Turkish Jews escape occupied France.
The storyline was great, the writing style not so much, but all in all a novel that pays tribute to the selfless work of then Turkish diplomats who saved hundreds of lives during World War II.
I appreciated the new (to me) perspective of Turkey spiriting their Jewish citizens out of France and the grasp of the Gestapo.
Even though the events of this story held some interest and engagement, I felt the writing, editing, and character development could have been better.
The story jumped from event to event without smooth transitions and the characters felt underdeveloped.
I’m wondering if some of the frustrations of the reading experience could be the result of poor translation?
However, overall it’s an ok read for those who are looking for unique perspectives on WW 11.
Very interesting account of a young couple during times of World war 2. Though it touches such a sensitive subject, there’s constant hope in the way story is narrated...through trials, tribulations and longing. I could hardly put the book down, despite super busy schedule. Must read!
Selva, the daughter of one of the Ottoman's last pasha's, has fallen in love with Rafael (Rafo) Alfandari, a Turkish Jew. As stubborn as her father, she rebels against his edict to stay away from and Rafo and instead marries him, forcing the two to flee to Paris in order to stave off the wrath of both families.
She's taken it upon herself to save the world single-handedly." I also really liked the way consulate officials were compiled into two composite characters that reflects the admirable actions of the historical figures of that era.
However, the book has a very nationalistic undertone (covering the foreign policies of the Republic of Turkey during WWII, that is mentioned in the previous paragraph could be related to this).
Giving a superior moral standing to a country which during 20th century has treated its own minorities, e.g. Armenian and Kurdish, so badly either during ottoman reign or Republic era could be a direct consequence of it.It should be emphasised that the previous paragraph doesn't want to say that European countries have the higher moral standing.
I call it a top historical novel because it sheds light on a piece of history that I did not know and works very well as a novel.The book has two themes.
The first theme is that it is about two sisters in an aristocratic Turkish family where one marries someone in the Turkish Foreign Ministry and the other marries a Turkish Jew and has to move to France because neither family accepts a Muslim-Jewish marriage.
This piece of history I found truly amazing and quite uplifting in a world where many people feel that Muslins aren't humanitarian.To make this more meaningful to me I wanted to mention that my mother is a Jewish German refugee.
This is an interesting story but not terribly well written though it might be more the fault of the translation...I can't tell which is the culprit.
The premise is good in that the book is based on the role of the Turks in WWII and their willingness to remain neutral.
At the heart of this book is the interplay between two sisters who grew up privileged in Turkey.
One marries "appropriately" while the other chooses to marry with her heart and thus a mixed marriage with a Jewish man.
Again, the story is interesting with a very good backdrop though perhaps not told extremely well.
I drawn to this book when I read the cover says 'International Bestseller'.
I become curious to know what makes it a bestseller internationally.
I must say I loved this book.
It is one of my favorite genre 'Historical Fiction'.The story is set during those six years of dreadful history of WW2.
This book can also work as a guidebook for authors and writers to understand the art of writing a good book.I have no words for this book.
One of the few books you want to read again and again and never get tired.
Recommended for authors and writers and readers of historical fiction.
