https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311139.Pastel
Okay, this is totally silly, but I *loved* this in high school. This is the story of a middle-upper class English woman in the 1900-1910s who is eclipsed in everything by her younger, cleverer, more beautiful sister. Despite the stylized prose, the emotions were very real and human and transcended the 75 years between when it was written and when I read it. One thing I noted on re-read recently was how very pre-pre-feminist it was, but that didn't deter me from loving it as a young teenager
Not as bad as Barren Corn but not the Heyer I love. Too many easy conclusions and 20s mysogyny.
This book is poorly rated, but in my opinion it is beautifully written! You have to have the capacity for this type of book and not be looking for the story to start. Today we expect so much in the way of excitement. This isn't a book of exciting events. It is a lovely story about a lovely women who doesn't quite see her own worth because she is too distracted by what others think and how she perceives their lives to be. I enjoy watching her develop and absolutely love the mood of this book!
Set in what I think is the 1920s (it's hard to get a feel for the era, so I'm guessing based on the publication date and the descriptions of dresses, also look at that veil on the cover - 1920s!!), Pastel's main character is the most sympathetic in Heyer's "modern novels".
I can't tell, and by the end of the book I'd stopped caring.When I first learned that Heyer had written these "modern novels", I was excited to read them.
While I don't think the story is the best or most profound, the concept is very enlightening and worthwhile.
The concept of this story involves two sisters - Frances and Evelyn.
A favorite segment from this one, "Discontent was the deadliest of the vices, she [Frances] thought, and knew that she indulged in it.
Frances thought, dismayed, that it was all a condition of the mind.
If she indulged discontent to such an extent that the ordinary things seemed dull to her, perhaps the extraordinary things would seem dull too - yet more of life's disappointments."
Frances expects to lose every man who is attracted to her as soon as he sees her sister Evelyn, and Oliver is no exception.
For Evelyn he is an exception, though -- Oliver is her match in brilliance.
Frances must watch them marry, and herself settle for her childhood friend Norman, who has been pursuing her unexcitingly for years.
PASTEL is about Frances coming to terms with her kind of life.PASTEL was first published in 1929, according to Heyer's internet bibliography, and is very dated by its characters' discussions of Life, the Universe, and Everything.
Heyer suppressed the book in later years.
Well, I read "Pastel" by Georgette Heyer.
It was set in 1920's England and used the same plot as her book "A Convenient Marriage".
And then the older sister meets the man of her dreams.Read it if you're a confirmed Hedyer addict (I know I am) or are into historical romances.
I wonder if she used this as a draft for "A Convenient Marriage"?
Wish I had noticed the copyright date so I could find out.I've rated it as "Okay" (two stars).
Since I usually give Heyer's romance novels four or five stars, this is saying a lot.
This is one of Georgette Heyer's four contemporary social commentary novels.
I much prefer her historical romances and mysteries, but I love Georgette Heyer's writing so much, I read anything written by her.
Pastel is the story of two sisters, and how their choice of whom they marry affects their lives.
It is called Pastel because the one sister feels like a pale faded version of her prettier wittier sister.
It is not a typical love story, but accurately portrays the little things that cause discord in a relationship.
You can also tell that the author was a dog person - the way she described "His Nibs" was adorable!
Normally reading Georgette Heyer is like eating cake with and inch thick layer of frosting--indulgent, sugary and you can only eat one piece at a time. This book was more like cracked wheat cereal--rather wholesome but hard to get down. Ms. Heyer certainly thought a lot about why people get married as this was the main theme. She also was making a bold statement against the 60s culture and thought. I would have to agree on the culture and thought--it was bizarre nonsense and very self-centered. Unusual book for her. Made me think.
This was a different Heyer book than any I have read. It isn't historical fiction or a regency romance novel, but instead is an exploration into the details of relationships between siblings, and spouses before and after marriage, and all the false expectations accompanied. The main character really resonated with me for many reasons, making this book a nice read and time to reflect what I think about my relationships, and how I can make or break them.
This was not what I was expecting. Instead of a Regency romance, it was set in the 1920's. A lot of time spent debating and thinking about what is love and what each person needs. It was very slow and I have to admit I started skimming through some of the longer introspective paragraphs. It ends where it needs to though so it was redeemed.
Although this book isn't as explicit in theme as, say, A Civil Contract, it's just as interesting in its own way. And it's set between the wars, so it's a departure from the Regency era, but Heyer captures it (as usual) well.
Story about a spoiled girl getting married to a man she doesn't love, and finds true happiness. She's jealous of her sister, and seems to like to whine a lot. Supposed to be an detailed story, but I sure did get tired of reading this girl's whining.
Just got this from ILL. The last suppressed contemporary novel. We'll see. It can't be as depressing as Barren Corn, can it?Not as depressing but rather a dull run. A light little story about sisters and the importance of blooming where you are planted. S'okay.
I read more than half of this book waiting for the story to "start"....finally, I realized that Heyer wrote it as a kind of commentary on relationships. Not was I was looking for......
