https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174709.The_Conquest_of_the_Incas
Just about everyone knows about how Francisco Pizarro, the illiterate conquistador, captured the Inca Atahualpa, demanded a king's ransom in gold and silver, and put his prisoner to death anyway.
The Incas rebelled under Manco Inca and retreated to Vilcabamba, from which they ran a truncated version of their society until they were finally defeated by the Spanish decades later.
John Hemming tells the whole story in Conquest of the Incas, from both the point of view of the Spaniards and of the Incas, from Pizarro's landing at Tumbes to the execution of Tupac Amaru.
"Conquest of the Incas" is certainly one of the finest--perhaps the finest--large-scale Historical study I have ever read.
With the Incas themselves the tiny and vulnerable Vilcabamba State teetered on the edge of survival under the leadership of Manco and his followers but was destroyed in the end owing to foolish actions of its final rulers.
The book is written in a beautiful lucid prose which portrays faithfully and objectively the inevitable destruction of a civilisation and yet it retains a sense of drama.
While remaining an objective narrator, Hemming nonetheless implies a number of political and moral lessons which are, I suspect, relevant today.
This book is an historical masterpiece.
The chapters from 18 to 21 (out of the 25 contained in the 2013 edition I read) were the most poignant for me, as they move further away from the strict chronology of the facts to deal with the effect of experiments with various forms of government on the oppressed masses.
Indeed, my enjoyment of this book was spoiled by the electronic edition I had being particularly badly made: so from the bottom of my heart, DO NOT buy the 2013 ebook by Crux publishing: none of the photographic plates are there, those available online from the publisher's webpage are cumbersome to access clicking on them as instructed does not work), the genealogy trees are very poor quality so in practice unusable, and there are no links from text to endnotes, making reading this a real pain in the neck.
As Peruvian it was painful to read this episode in the history of my country. Specially since I am familiar with all the places mentioned in the book. As a reader I think this is a superb piece of work. Read it
A truly well-researched and balanced look at the Spanish conquest of Peru that treated the conquered Incas as a noble people and shined a light on both the atrocities and few glimmers of goodness from the Spaniards.
My own take is that after so much oppression and innumerable atrocities, the indigenous people's spirit of rebellion was broken and they came to accept the new conquerors in the same way they had previously accepted the Incas.
I recommend this book to anyone interested in Peru, history, or most importantly enjoy an account that tells the other side of history from the point of view of the oppressed, a la The People's History.
They had a lot of fortune in the Incas being in the midst of civil war at the time the Spanish arrived, and of course they were much better equipped with horses proving a huge boon time after time.Having visited some of the sites in Peru it is sad to think that once great buildings laden with gold were torn down and built on top of, but I guess this is something that happens throughout history, and it is easy to forget the Incas had just completed their own conquest of a vast empire.The Inca stone-work has to be seen to be believed, it is exceptional in its quality and modern attempts to reproduce it e.g. at Koricancha don't get near the same standards.
This is an extremely well researched book and should be read by any visitor to Peru. It tells of the tragic demise of the amazing Inca civilization at the hands of the Spanish Conquistadors. In the 16th Century: The cruelty the deception, the bravery and violence and the looting and destruction of priceless gold and silver works of art, and the huge loss of the Inca kings and their Empire. Interesting are the final chapters detailing the searches in the 20th Century to discover explain and map the Inca cities, refuges temples and palaces.
If you're primarily interested in how the conquest transformed the region as a whole you'll only find the occasional paragraph interjected here and there in the narrative, but if you're mainly after the story of Francisco Pizarro and his brothers or Atahualpa and his descendants then this is the right book.
There's also a chapter at the end which deals with the modern day discovery of Macchu Picchu and the whole debate about whether Macchu Picchu was the Inca refuge of Vilcabamba or not, which although interesting does not fit well the rest of the book and feels like more of an aside that might as well have been published as a stand alone article.
Li esse livro como preparação para a minha viagem ao Peru. Gostei muito! Achei bem completo e com uma narrativa tranquila de ler, sem ser chato ou maçante. Reflexão final: os incas eram foda! e os espanhóis os mais sem-graça (eufemismo gigante para fdp) da história por terem destruído tudo aquilo.
How difficult it is to imagine what drove Francisco Pizarro except a quest for fame!
The illegitimate son of a military officer, Pizarro was born in a barren area called Extremadura, about 140 miles from Madrid.
Interestingly, this area is known as "the cradle of most of the leading conquistadores." Males born into poor circumstances in fifteenth-century Spain had the choice of marrying a rich female or joining the conquistadores.
Despite their small numbers and against all odds, the Spanish defeated the Incas by bringing horses, steel swords, and smallpox to Peru.
Pizarro executed him instead.
Spanish colonialism became a harsh reality, a deep horror for Peru.
Two weeks till the Harmon Siblings travel to Peru - read up and ready.A thorough account of the conquest of the Peruvian Inca Empire by the Spanish Pizzaro brothers.
Eleven Spaniards were injured, one Spaniard and two horses were killed...3,000 Incas perished.
I can't imagine how the Inca felt - one day a vastly superior alien race just shows up and all that you know becomes useless.
The Spanish either killed or converted the masses to Christianity.
The Inca were very accepting of the new religion...but who knows how much of that was motivated by the desire to remain among the living.
This book captures the whole of that story and in wonderful detail relates the invasion of Pizzaro and the fall of the Incas.
From Manco Inca to Tuti Cosi the Inca rebellions raged against Spanish occupation and eventually resulted in the free Inca state of Villacamba.
In the end this state was doomed to fall to Spanish greed but the attempts at the Incas to preserve sovereignty is impressive.
If you want to get a start on learning about the Inca's there is not a better book out there.
If you are starting a study of South America as a whole this is an essential addition to that library.
Bought an old version on Amazon for About $2.
When I got it I saw how old it looked and set it aside for a year (thinking I would never be interested).
I picked it up before I trip to Peru and was very surprised and how concise and well told the story is.
It's a great story with good academic credentials, written in 1970 when a lot of the myths of the Inca's (Machu Pichu erroneously being confused as the last holdout of the Inca's, which it wasn't) still abounded.
This is a massive work of history, accurate as I can guess it and as history will ever be (i.e. never count on it, it's always a point of view)I liked it a lot, especially reading it prior to my Peruvian holiday it was a great read.Only it's sheer size and detail proved to be a burden as it became impossible of tracing every person, place and story throughout with the book covering such a long time-frame and such tumultuous times.
When he said that he must have been thinking about the Spanish Conquistadors and their brutal invasion of Peru.
This book gives a detailed, shocking account of not only how the Spanish conquered the Incas - despite being vastly outnumbered - but also the brutality and greed that came after.
The writer did a masterful job researching this book but it all came across a little too scholarly and heavy for a casual history buff like me.
This is a book for those who are passionate about the subject or need a detailed account of the conquest of Peru; unfortunately, I'm not that man.
It spans the entire 40 years between the Spaniards first contact with the Incas and the destruction of the independent state of Vilcabamba, where the last Inca, Manco, fled after a failed insurrection against the Spanish.
Hemming also piles on tons of information about the economy of Inca Peru and Spanish Peru, the oppression of the native population and the attempts of conscentious Spaniards to remedy that.
The Spanish may have oppressed the native population, but they were not as racist as the rulers of North America: a lot of the conquistadors ended up marrying Inca princesses and some of their descendants became important members of Spanish-ruled Peru.
We had just come back from a tour of Peru and wanted to read this book that was recommended by our guide.
As for the book, the writing style is more relevant to a college lecture hall rather than an example of good story telling.
It gives you all the pertinent facts but, in many sections, resembles a mind dump rather than an ordered sequence of information.
I did find myself skimming through these sections, which is not a good sign.
The book contains a lot of good information, and if you want to know how the Spaniards tried to eradicate the Inca civilization, it is a great source.
Incredible. This book is so well written and covers such a fascinating topic that I could not put it down. The story of the conquest of the Incas is truly unbelievable and reads like something out of Lord of the Rings. Hemming does a fantastic job of making the history read like a fantasy novel, with exquisite detail weaved throughout. I would highly recommend even if you are not studying the period. This is history that every student of history should study.
Absolutely fantastic and all encompassing account of the Incas from the beginning of Spanish conquest until the conquest was complete and no longer in doubt in any form. I cannot recommend this book enough, it was well written and although it was quite academic it was highly readable. I think this is a book I will find myself coming back to in future years. It was immensely interesting and makes me excited to explore new areas that this book inspired.
A very scholarly book about the Spanish conquest of Peru. It details the activities of Pizarro and his generals on their march through the Inca lands, the capture of the Inca and subsequent activities as they subdued the entire population in a short time. The plethora of details make for slow going, but the book gives an excellent picture of what took place and is based on written accounts by the Spanish involved as well as Inca records of the time.
An excellent book on the history of the inca and their conquest by the Spanish in the 16th century. As someone who went in with very little knowledge of the events I never felt out of my depth which was great, and enjoyed the author's own personal recollections of exploring ruins in the Amazon. My only complaint is that I felt there could have been more background on some of the conquistadors, but apart from that the amount of detail was good.
History writing at its best: an author who clearly engages with his subject on many levels and releases a stream of intriguing facts embedded in limpid prose; nearly 50 years old and not bettered in its field, nor,more generally, as accessible writing for the generalist audience. A beautifully made book too, gorgeous typeface, lovely binding.
Excellent ReadIf you really want to know about the conquests of Peru, read this book. It undoubtedly will contain much more than any one person can absorb. However, the manner in which the history us told is fascinating.
“'We assume that Your Majesty has not been informed of this, since you have not ordered that it be remedied. For it is so contrary to divine and natural law that free men should be forced and compelled to such excessive labour, so prejudicial to their health and lives.'”
Автор надзвичайно глибоко дослідив давню цивілізацію інків, описав походи та завоювання іспанських конкістадорів Пісарро, Бекалькасара, Альварадо. Чудові ілюстрації.
A “first contact” clashing of power and religion. Despite cultures that are worlds apart, the similarities are just as striking as the differences.
Very comprehensive and clear. Well researched. Too much detail and tracking of family trees to be a fun read. Maps are near impossible to read.
A fascinating look at the Spanish conquest of the Incas.
Hemming tries to balance this with giving much attention to those few accounts that do take into account the Inca's point of view, such as the works of Martin the Murua and Titu Cusi Yupanqui, and to pointing out repeatedly the substantial help the Spaniards received from tribes like the Cañaris and Chachapoyas in the destruction of the Inca empire.The book can be divided in 2 parts: The first covers the conquest, from the capture of Atahualpa in Cajamarca in November 1532 until the ultimate failure of the Manco's great rebellion in the greater Cusco area in 1536.
A thorough, scholarly look at the history and causes of the collapse of the Incas.Hemming does a good job of portraying the laudable and the baser motives of both sides in the conflict.
-- the indigenous people of the Andes.Certainly the world would be better off had the conquistadors recorded and preserved the Incan culture, but the Incans were themselves recent conquerors of much of their empire when the Spaniards showed up.
The book details how the effort by subject tribes to overthrow the Inca made it much easier for the Spaniards to topple the old order ...
