https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48466.The_Habit_of_Being
The prevalence of social media does not bode well for cosmic insight.O'Connor had returned to Midgeville, Georgia to be cared for by her mother and lived fourteen years after her diagnosis, publishing two novels (Wise Blood and The Violent Bear It Away) and a multitude of short stories, some published posthumously in 1965 in All That Rises Must Converge.
O'Connor was much more comfortable around her peafowl or chickens.On her college education:I didn't really start to read until I went to Graduate School and then I began to read and write at the same time.
You have to learn to do this unobtrusively of course.Writing in the 1950s and early '60s, O'Connor's time and place were another world compared with today's.
Up until now I have not loved Flannery O'Connor's writing.
Now I love her writing and herself.
I have spent almost the entire year reading these letters.
Eventually reading a few letters a day became a habit for me and now I am forlorn.
I will relish reading what she wrote in light of her own thoughts about why she wrote.
Never one to navel gaze, her letters are a haven of maturity and common sense.
The letters were pulled together by Robert Fitzgerald's wife Sally.
I very much enjoyed reading Flannery's take on authors and issues of the times.
This was the book that converted me. I don't like anything else that O'Connor writes, and I never read collections of letters: never did before and never have since. I truly believe that the Holy Spirit led me to this book and allowed my mind and heart to open to conversion.O'Connor is funny, thoughtful, thought-provoking. This is absolutely one of my favorite books of all time.
This is probably the third time I've read this book. There's something about this woman's humor and vision in the face of her illness that is so strengthening. I like her responses to those who wrote offering to marry her after they heard that she had published "A Good Man is Hard to Find." She makes me laugh so much. Her letters are an open windows to her gritty, gritty, life-loving soul.
Original comments and review below.==========This is by my bedside and I am really enjoying reading Flannery O'Connor's letters which at this early stage of the book are mostly to her publishers about problems OR to pals about life in general.
Also, now that I am further into the book, she is revealing more of the underlying thoughts behind her stories and the underlying Catholic worldview that she writes from (and lived from).
In her letters to her friends I learned a lot about writing, the Catholic faith, and living a full life under difficult circumstances.

È quindi evidente che ho potuto cogliere solo in parte alcune delle tematiche, intrinsecabilmente legate ai suoi racconti e romanzi.
L’ho letto con la consapevolezza di capire solo in parte i suoi discorsi, lasciandomi affascinare dall’ironia e insieme dalla disciplina di questa donna.
Le sue lettere sono dirette, pratiche, parlano del suo mondo piccolo (la famiglia, la malattia, i pavoni e i cigni che amava allevare) e del suo mondo grande (i romanzi che devono decantare, le critiche, i caratteri dei personaggi, le interpretazioni dei suoi racconti che lei accoglie quasi sempre con stupore o disinteresse).
Nelle tue lettere ho sentito la tua età avanzare e la tua consapevolezza farsi più forte; sei passata dall'essere una ragazza saccente che ha un'opinione su tutto, a diventare una donna che si è adeguata ai tempi e alla malattia senza mai perdere di integrità.
non ti incontrerò mai e forse è meglio così, l'immagine di te riesce più chiara nello scritto, sei vera, ironica e polemica; ma quanto sarebbe bello vedere quei tuoi splendidi pavoni e tutti i pennuti scorrazzare liberi nella tua casa Andalusia!!
Continuerò a leggere i tuoi racconti con una visione più chiara dell'importanza che il tuo lavoro ha avuto nella tua breve vita.
Reading this collection of the letters of Flannery O'Connor alongside Mystery and Manners, The Complete Short Stories, and both of her novels was quite an experience.
Without the intention of doing so, it seemed that I was frequently keeping pace with her fiction as I read through her letters, which granted a great deal of insight into the background behind the stories--the things that were going on in her life as she was writing them, the conversations she was having, the books she was reading, etc.
O'Connor's personality--always funny, sometimes a bit off-color, hopeful and insightful--shines through in each letter.
I would have given up some of the many letters to the anonymous "A" (who we now know was her friend Betty Hester) in favor of some (any!) letters by O'Connor to her mother, or to the textbook salesman she dated for a short period, and who apparently inspired (in part) the short story "Good Country People," which features a diabolical Bible salesman.But qualms aside, almost anyone will finish this book "knowing" Flannery O'Connor, at least a little bit.
Teach yourself to like excellent reading, just like you teach yourself to like excellent food (which for me is a steak!), and you'll end up learning to like what is excellent.So in my attempt to educate my personal preferences towards excellence, I am trying to read and understand Flannery O'Connor.
Perhaps letters written by Flannery to her friends would help me understand and appreciate her short stories and novels.
(WOW!) Flannery lived with the Fitzgerald's for several years before the onset of her lupus.I found the letters to be vastly helpful in understanding her as a person and what she writes about and why.
Reading someone's letters is like receiving an invitation into their entire world, especially geography/setting, their relationships (the other correspondents end up being as central as the writer), and the daily details of one's life (which I always find to be the most interesting part of the correspondence).Flannery O'Connor suffered from lupus and was mostly confined to live her life with her mother on their Georgia farm.
She is delightfully quotable.The funny thing about reading these letters is I appreciate Flannery O'Connor as a writer/artist while not really enjoying her stories.
"I have come to think that the true likeness of Flannery O'Connor will be painted by herself, a self-portrait in words, to be found in her letters," writes Sally Fitzgerald in her introduction to The Habit of Being. This extensive collection of letters provides an invaluable glimpse into O'Connor's world, beginning with her first query letter to her agent in 1948 and ending with her last note of 1964, left on her bedside table. The Habit of Being traces the development of an enigmatic human being and one of the finest Southern writers of the twentieth century.Recommended by Crystal, Powells.com
O'Connor's letters are funny, pungent ---and surprisingly, deep. I'm not so sure about her religious sentiments which are old school Catholic. But I admire her bravery, her bemused take on life's endless banality, and her wicked sense of humor. I didn't realize how seriously she took her art and admire that, too.
If it were possible to find anything better than Flannery O'Connor's stories, it would be her letters. This collection is a must-read for those who wish to gain a broader understanding of her stories and novels. The letters are also a window into the personal beliefs and fine sense of humor of this amazing writer.
"I hope you don’t have friends who recommend Ayn Rand to you. The fiction of Ayn Rand is as low as you can get re fiction. I hope you picked it up off the floor of the subway and threw it in the nearest garbage pail. She makes Mickey Spillane look like Dostoevsky."
Biography. Letters. Literary. Religion. So much more...
What an exhilarating trip through the life and mind of a writer..."one damm book after another"...with peacocks."I am about convinced now that my novel is finished.
It has reached the stage where it is a pleasure for me to type it so I presume it is done.
I sit all day typing and grinning like the Cheshire cat.
There is nothing like being please with your own efforts - and this is the best stage - before it is published and begins to be misunderstood."I was amused that she wasn't a good godparent: "We don't make at all good godparents.
I have been reading these letters slowly over the last year and feel so blessed to be able to get a glimpse into this woman’s life.
She was an intelligent, funny, insightful woman very committed to her faith and her writings.” It saddens me that she died so young, and it is a testament to her strong faith that her letters were not filled with complaints and bitterness over her disease even as it made life very difficult for her.
Through them I learned not just about her as a person, but I gained more insight into her stories as she often referred to them and what she was doing in them.
Perché nelle sue opere non ci sono angeli, preti che scacciano il diavolo, peccatori che si redimono.Niente di tutto questo, accidenti.Un’America che “In God We Trust” (come è scritto sulle banconote), fatica a credere che ci siano sulle sue polverose strade dei cialtroni capaci di capire dove sta Dio. Non sta all’ombra del fungo nucleare, ma accanto al balordo che scarica il caricatore della pistola contro la vecchia de “Un brav’uomo è difficile da trovare”.Nelle sue lettere, Flannery spiega ai suoi corrispondenti il proprio punto di vista, con il piglio di chi vede con sufficiente lucidità dove si sta andando.
If Greene created an old lady, she would be sour through and through and if you dropped her, she would break, but if you dropped my old lady, she'd bounce back at you, screaming 'Jesus loves me!' I think the basis of the way I see is comic regardless of what I do with it..."I wish I could have met her.Note: She does seem to have been (cliche) somewhat of a product of her time and place (as we all are to one degree or another)...
"I feel that if I were not a Catholic, I would have no reason to write, no reason to see, no reason ever to feel horrible or even to enjoy anything." (p.114)"I am largely worried by wingless chickens...I only know I believe in the complete chicken.
Perhaps more importantly, these letters provide a window into the tremendous vitality of her friendships, which, aside from writing, were really the center of her life.
I think what I loved the most about this read was just how much O'Connor was so much herself-quite sure of herself, inquisitive, unpretentious—yet very self-critical of her writing, often self-depreciating, and on intimate terms with her own humanity.
i can't quite call reading a third of this book and then putting it down because you're tired of trying to figure out the logistics of taking a 600 page hardcover book, your lunch and your gym bag to work every day "couldn't finish." i love flannery o'conner's dry wit that is so evident in some of her shorter letters, particularly to those on the publishing side.
you start spending 200+ pages with one voice with one eye and the other eye starts wandering to the rest of your reading queue.
it did make me curious to take up more letter reading, however.
Les lettres: une façon de mettre par écrit tout le fonds de sa pensée sur tout et sur tous...
Elle ne mâche pas ses mots, elle se laisse aller à tout divulguer, sans souci de choquer, rien ne la retient, elle est authentique, franche, cassante et directe!!!
Elle balance tout, sans pincette, sans remords, elle se lâche...
Elle ironise, elle est sarcastique, elle joue avec les mots...
Elle n'a rien a perdre, vu qu'elle est malade sur le point de mourir..
Je n'ai pas lu son livre en une traite, il faut analyser, digérer les informations, pleurer un bon coup!
Un bon livre!
"Anything that comes out of the South is going to be called grotesque by the northern reader, unless it is grotesque, in which case it is going to be called realistic." -Flannery O'ConnorA favorite patron actually pulled me into the stacks with her to look for a copy of this book when she realized I had not read it (many thanks to you Sister M.).
Religion, writing, and the South are explored in these weekly letters to O'Connor's best friend Betty Hester.
Works great as a companion book to O'Connor's "Complete Works." AND, (mostly)leaves me wondering how such a sheltered lady could understand and write about human behavior in such a gothic, disturbing, and wicked way.
Confession: I love reading other people's letters.
I do aim to stick to published ones, though -- it's sinless that way but it still feels a little whoo whoo and peekish.
Flannery's letters take the cake.
For many years now I've kept this book out handy, and I read a letter at a time -- okay, sometimes a half dozen or more -- whenever the mood hits me.
O'Connor is witty, wise, brilliantly expressive and even a tad gossipy by turns.
This book is always fresh.
I once saw it listed somewhere as one of the 50 best books of last century.
It's hard to read a book of letters through, but this one was worth the effort. Flannery's personality, wit, depth, and faith are front and center in a compilation of letters she wrote to various contacts throughout her life. Her literary insights, observations of her own writing failures and successes, as well as her challenging thoughts on faith are all here.
While reading letters compiled over a lifetime can be difficult -- there isn't exactly a narrative, as lives are much more complicated than they let on -- this one was very encouraging to me in my own writing.
Absolutely incredible.
Possibly my favorite book ever...
