https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12451.Of_Time_and_the_River
And much like its predecessor, this novel follows Eugene Gant with all the same passion and endless examination of the overbearing intensity of life in one's youth.
Where Look Homeward, Angel delved deep into the unbearable idleness of youth, small town America and the cyclical nature of family life; this novel follows Gant into his mid-twenties, out of his small town, and through his search to quench that desire for knowledge and the world around him that plagued his younger years.
Secondly, Wolfe's descriptions of America and France in the pre-World War 2 period are enough to make this book required reading.
A book on a monumental scale. Nearly a thousand pages long. It is the sequel to Wolfe's first novel, Look Homeward, Angel. It chronicles the main character of that novel as he moves from small town North Carolina in the early nineteen hundreds to Harvard, then New York and Europe. It is intensely emotional, very passionate, and, oh-so-descriptive of characters, places, emotions. It's a book that blows your socks off. Not for the faint hearted. I absolutely love it.
Las opiniones sobre Thomas Wolfe se movieron desde sus inicios entre aquellos que, como Faulkner, pensaban que era uno de los más grandes novelistas norteamericanos y los que, sin negarle el genio como escritor, destacaban por encima de todo su desmesura, sus excesos líricos, su incapacidad para dotar de forma y estructura a sus novelas.Tras leer esta, me sitúo claramente en el segundo grupo.
Como por las ventanas de ese tren en marcha -gran imagen que pierde su potencia a fuerza de repetición-, las escenas se suceden una tras otra sin una ligazón clara y separadas por unos arrebatados interludios de un, muchas veces, exagerado lirismo.Yo tampoco pude encontrar una estructura clara que hiciera de este río una corriente única y atractiva de seguir.
Wolfe is now one of my favorite authors. I visited Asheville last October, learned about Wolfe, bought Look Homeward Angel in the Visitor's Center, read that, and now finished Of Time and the River. I am looking forward to reading more Wolfe and have even thought about going back to Asheville. I think I would see Asheville differently now, after having read >1500 pages of Wolfe.
This is my favorite book and favorite author. Recommend this to anybody at any age, but will probably have more Impact on college students as it did me back when most of my life was in front of me and not behind me.
A powerful magnificent, slow-read of a book. A fictionalized auotbiography, as the author goes to Harvard, teaches, and travels to England and France. The writing is simply amazing. When he describes the contents of a refrigerator, I become hungry. Of friends he treats poorly, I become ashamed. Almost every paragraph has a noteworthy, profound or lyric passage. Truly a remarkable work.
This is a book that every young man (or person) should read. I read this freshman year of college. An absolute masterpiece. An inspiration to Kerouac as well as anyone else who has ever read Wolfe.
Wolfe's largely autobiographical prose (unconsciously or consciously) focuses on the dead: Eugene's father, brothers, friends, ancestors.
"[Starwick] had the power, as few people in the world have ever had the power, instantly to conquer and command the devotion of people because, while they were with him, everything in the world took on a freshness, wonder, joy and opulence it had never had before..." (2065) At times it seems that Starwick controls the story line, upstaging Eugene completely.
One wonders if Wolfe gives Francis carte blanche out of sentimentality or authenticity.
It's a known fact that Wolfe wrote a hell of a lot and needed a good editor/editors, he's probably more famous for that than his books.
It's not that he's a bad writer either, Look Homeward Angel is not an easy book but it does have beautiful descriptions and charm, it had something to like despite it being difficult, overwritten and a bit pretentious.
It has beautiful descriptions too but they are lost in the overwritten fat of the book, characters come and go without bringing much to the story, it definitely is pretentious and it almost feels like 4 or 5 different books or Wolfe wrote this adventure for this character Eugene Gant 4 or 5 different times and put them all together.
Not much to really say about the book here.
Much of what I got out of this is in my mind, inarticulate, felt.
So, for starters, the book is the most empathetic, humanistic, sensitive, fallible, poetic, rampant prose I have ever read.
There is more human yearning and stern passion wretched out in that book, more human confusion and exultancy in there than anything I have read.
This book goes far beyond Hamsun's "Hunger" and "Mysteries." I didn't get the sense that he really articulated what it means to be "American" clearly; he came close a couple of times to really describing "American" experience.
Wow....I feel like I just ate a 10 course French meal....this book had some beautiful imagery and poetic descriptions....a huge and lovely journey...
This novel picks up where Look Homeward, Angel leaves off. Wolfe's writing here is just as rich and detailed as any of his other novels. It also has one of the most moving death scenes in all of American literature, the death of William Oliver Gant, the father of the novel's protagonist, Eugene Gant.
i would give this book ten stars if i could. i thought it was amazing.
An under-appreciated American genius. Not for everyone, but sit down, buckle your seatbelt, and ride the white water rapids of Wolfe's torrential prose.
I have read, and re-read this book several times. Although not quite as good as Look Homeward, Angel, Of Time and the River is still a mesmerizing, life-changing read. I still think the death scene of Mr. Gant in Chapter 33 is one of the most powerful scenes in all of 20th century literature. Book IV Proteus: The City is among my favorite passages in all of literature. I have read this book several times and likely will again. Highly recommended.
I don't usually get personal with these reviews, but I must say that this book will always be entwined in a strange and beautiful way with my mother's death.
Wolfe may have fallen out of fashion but I really think that the beautiful enthusiasm, the sheer lyrical wonder of this book will transcend all literary trends until - god forbid - people stop reading books altogether.
It, honestly, doesn't hold together as a novel in the usual sense, other than the general arc of Gant/Wolfe's awakening into life and the relation of his experiences, but there is something so inherently American about it, not in a jingoistic or nationalistic way, but in a wholesome, Whitmanic sense, that makes this work so special.
This is a long book and made even longer by Wolfe's exceedingly lengthy sentences.
Even then, he took me on a journey, along with him, and never once allowed me put down the book, bogged down by ...
In terms of a 'plot', for the want of a better word, the happenings described are pretty mundane and one might not find engaging experiences or any such about his life or his fictionalised counterpart.
But the way they have been described will capture most hearts.
And for people who love vivid story-telling, this book should be one of their top reads.
This sequel to Look Homeward, Angel is set in the 1920s and covers the death of Eugene Gant's father, his departure from home to teach in New York and his time travelling in England and France. It's very long and Wolfe can be quite repetitive at times (although this is clearly for poetic effect rather than contempt for the reader) but it remains an almost uniquely intense experience thanks to the author's brutal honesty, which spares no-one, least of all himself (Gant is clearly a self-portrait). And Wolfe's descriptions of people and places are so vivid it's like being there.
I bought this copy that I'm reading from a used bookseller online since it is out of print.
So far, the book has held two surprises for me.
Its old and falling apart for $27.
Its a 1st edition, 6th printing, from 1935, pages are yellowed and the binding is falling off as I read it but I was surprised to find that Wolfe had wrote a dedication and signed it in 1935.Last weekend I was in Boston for the first time and as I read, Eugene Gant, wolfes character was too.
We were visiting a few of the same spots, quite unplanned.
For some readers this book may seem daunting, but it is well worth the read.
Thomas Wolfe does not disappoint as he continues his excellent lyrical style as we follow the travels and travails of young Eugene Gant.
Wolfe is really a literary painter as his words are evocative of a bygone era, a sense of nostalgia that is embedded in each of us.
Not many authors can produce the imagery that he does.
I loved his literary landscapes.
His images of the moonlight, trains and October are majestic.
I also loved his commentary on Americans abroad.
Well done, Mr Wolfe!
Incredibly well written novel. Wolfe seems to have fallen out of favor in recent years, perhaps due to the length of his novels, perhaps due to the sometimes over dramatic or larger than life feel of his prose. Wolfe undoubtedly had a way with words and I can't believe he won't at some point find his way back into favor with readers. Stylistically he is the anti-Hemingway, but it's hard to say he isn't up there with the best of American writers.
On a scale of 1-5, I would give this a 7. It is the quintessential book about man's youth in America. The pace is slow, but the journey is deep and profound. Wolfe is one of the most underestimated American authors. His prose was the most poetic of the 20th century. I live inside of his details and descriptions...-Daniel J. Rice, author of THIS SIDE OF A WILDERNESS, and THE UNPEOPLED SEASON
he is the greatest american writer and yet he can t tell a story. he seems to go on and on with no plan. a young man goes to harvard, to england, to paris and parties much of the time there. he thinks of everything on earth and tries to describe everything as well. i respect him immensely but reading his books wear me out. he is almost as bad as joyce but no one could be that bad,good.lol
Once you realize this isn't a book you are able to breeze through, it's very enjoyable. It's a story to be read as more of a literary masterpiece than pure entertainment. I read this while I was the same age as Eugene, the main character, and connected with it on a lot of levels.
He marvels at the lonely, tragic beauty of New England, which he has come to believe differs from his native South.Eugene, like Wolfe himself, for a time devotes unstinting energies to writing plays for a workshop which absorbs his energies, but later he turns away from these efforts as constraining and imposing limits upon his creative self.
amazing. dense. but so long.
I liked the beautiful and lyrical writing. Didn't like the storyline or the mostly two-dimensional characters. The book is simply too long!
The Scottish poet Hugh MacDiarmid once said that his job was to erupt like a volcano - emitting not only flame, but a lot of rubbish. It might have been Thomas Wolfe's epitaph.
No comments. One of the important books of the last century; a future book.
It was an overly wordy, LONG book. Did I mention it was a long book?
