https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129506.A_Treasury_of_Knitting_Patterns
Knitting porn, pure and simple. Hundreds of patterns, grouped thematically, with pictures, techical info, and the inimitable Walker commentary. You WANT this book.
Awesome book! I got it from the library, but I am adding it to my amazon wish list because it is a great reference for fun pattern ideas.
If you knit, and cannot afford many books, "A Treasury of Knitting Patterns," by Barbara G. Walker would be one that I would recommend buying. There are hundreds of knitting patterns and if you want to make a knitted item look different changing the pattern from stockinette stitch to something less familiar is one of the easiest ways to personalize your knitting. If you have a large budget, you could buy all of Barbara Walker's knitting and knitting pattern books. I in particular enjoy "Knitting From the Top."
A fantastic book about knitting! Well laid out with a delightful, wide array of patterns & styles catering to all knitting levels. Barbara Walker has done an incredible service with these Treasuries and they should be in every knitters' collection.
Great reference book
Love it!! Now I just have to find the rest of the books!
All of her Treasuries are important stitch reference books, and no knitting library is complete without them.
Walker was working on her knitting books, and knitting in general, she read while she knit, with research materials propped open in front of her.* All that research - years of it - ultimately became The Woman's Encyclopedia of Myths and Secrets.
* I remember reading an interview in which Walker described using a cookbook holder - a plexiglas frame designed to hold a large cookbook open but also protect its pages from splashes - to hold books open as she knit.
Lately I read downloaded books on my computer screen as I knit.
Virginia Woolf has said “All women together ought to let flowers fall upon the tomb of Aphra Behn, for it was she who earned them the right to speak their minds.”Nevermind Aphra Behn and her noble savage bullshit--that's for another review, but Barbara Walker is to knitters what Virginia Woolf claims Aphra Behn is to womankind!Thanks to her we have 4-4!
beautiful encyclopedias of patterns, us knitters can design and knit whatever is on our minds, and all the more easily thanks to her other ingenious contributions--charted design and knitting top-down.
Excellent! THE stitch dictionary. Consisting of the pattern written out, with a photo of an example. Patterns are grouped by type, though you may spend a long time browsing through if you're looking for a particular one. It is rather large, so not one for carrying around. Great reference book at home. There are more in the series if you want them. There are more modern, prettier, more colourful books available now, but this gets right to the point and gives you all the information you need to put your own take on dull knitting patterns.
I have many favorite knitting books. This one is right near the top. It's a book of knitting patterns, just as the title says. The only negative is that the photos are in black and white. But, if you like knitting samples, you're bound to find lots of gems here. I've been surprised many times by knitting samples I've done where the photo hasn't done it justice. This book is the first of four total. In my opinion, it's the best of the four.
Just bought this book from my LYS and now I'm wondering why I waited so long! It truly is a treasure chest of knitting patterns. So many patterns I've never seen before and want to incorporate into current and future projects. I love the little write-ups that introduce each pattern - advice on when and where to use the pattern, tidbits of history, or how to vary it to get different looking/feeling fabrics. A Treasure of Knitting Patterns is a must for every knitting enthusiast.
I reserved all four books from my library, not knowing what to expect. When I picked them up I was completely overwhelmed! They were not not booklets or readers, but detailed reference books every knitter should have.I was, and am, still overwhelmed. The information included is amazing, and I can't wait to start adding what I learned to my knitting.
Supposedly this is the woman who revived knitting back in the 1960s as a craft medium in America. Her stitch patterns are legendary. I just wished the pictures didn't look xeroxed. I'd give it 5 stars if the book were updated with clean color photos.
I love this book for its great variety. I only wish it had charts along with line-by-line instructions. Walker goes beyond most stich dictionaries by giving a little history of the patterns and giving suggestions for their use.
This book and the two companion books have been in my knitting library since I first discovered them. Anytime I want to take a plain sweater pattern and make it interesting I pull them out and find the perfect texture or pattern. A must have for anyone who knits!
A basic book that every knitter should have. I have it in hardcover and I THINK I had it in the seventies, but not sure. I use Barbara Walker's books more than any others in my library. They were the only four I had for a long time, and the only four I needed.
I don't know how you can rate this book as "read" or not. It's a stitch glossary and a wonderful one. There are a ton others. But for knitters, I think Walker's four treasuries are the backbone of their projects. A definite shelf must-have.
Simply the Bible for knitting stitches. It was published in the 1960's, so the photos are black and white, but it's nonetheless an amazing reference for the stunning variety of stitches possible in knitting.
The three volumes comprising Walker's knitting treasuries, published in 1968-72 by Scribner, have long been out of print. They have recently been reissued by Schoolhouse Press and should be seriously considered for purchase by large public libraries and textile collections.
Loads of beautiful stitch patterns presented in the written-out format (rather than the vastly inferior charted format). I have the newest edition and the pictures and text are clear and not at all blurry or 'photocopied' looking like some of the other reviewers have said.
Ideas ideas ideas!
A must-have on every serious knitter's reference shelf.
Valuable knitting reference...a must have for your library!
I like all of the Treasury as a resource, but the first two are my decided favorites over the third and fourth.
A plethora of patterns for application in knitting projects. Worth owing.
A classic. The second volume is even better.
Amazing! I won't be actually finishing this book as I've got loads of these patterns bookmarked to try.
Invaluable resource. A font for knitting dreaming and inspiration.
Great stitch pattern dictionary
