https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77427.H_M_S_Surprise
So much of it describes the natural world that reading HMS Surprise is often like watching an episode of Plant Earth.This epic series set during the Napoleonic Wars, ostensibly written with Captain Jack Aubrey as the solo heroic figure, can no longer pretend to be anything but a duet.
Aubrey's friend, sometimes surgeon and sometimes (view spoiler)[spy (hide spoiler)], Stephen Maturin really comes into his own in HMS Surprise, which includes one of the saddest, most touching scenes, not to mention others both harrowing and heroic.
Both Furst and O'Brian, by book three in their series, have worked out that they can write thousands of more pages with the setting, characters, and action they have in their heads and by book three they both have their pace.Major concern going forward: I think the relationship between Captain Aubrey and Dr. Maturin is amazing, and one of the graces of the English language.
I'm also not sure how much of the nautical lingo will eventually seep into my brain.
Perhaps, by the time I'm finishing up book 20, I will understand most of what is happening during a naval engagement.
Add to that a duel, the weathering of some truly monumental forces of nature, and a surprise naval engagement and you’ve pretty much got everything you ought to expect from an Aubrey-Maturin novel.The long and the short of it is that I enjoyed this novel quite a bit, certainly enough to more or less efface the bad taste I had after reading the first one.
The quiet sailing moments between the storms and the actions, either in the glowing phosphorescence of a moonless night under the Southern Cross or in the blinding sun of the tropical Java Sea will remain longer in my memory than the actual plot of this episode: At this speed the frigate's bow-wave rose high, washing the lee head-rails with an unearthly blue-green light and sending phosphorescent drops over them, even more brilliant than the wake that tore out straight behind them, a ruled line three miles long gleaming like a flow of metal.
"Jack, you have debauched my sloth."
And then Jack and Diana, and Bonden and Killick and all the Sophies (the crewmen of Jack's first ship), are in a deep state of dread that Stephen will not make it through the infection left behind by his surgery (which he himself performed) -- and the love that they all feel for the too intense, rather ugly, brilliantly talented doctor is revealed.Listening to Simon Vance bring this to life increases the intimacy for the reader/listener, making this a rare case when the audio book increased my enjoyment.
Toward the end, bafflingly, (view spoiler)[the envoy dies en route and so they give up and turn around, with no attempt to deliver his message or even let the sultan at their destination know of the situation.
They still haven't given any significant development to anyone else on the ship; the only people other than Aubrey and Maturin who receive much at all are their love interests, who play a small role in this book.
The principals' relationship was very complex and still developing in the first two books, but here it doesn't feel like there's much more for the author to do but retread old ground.
These stories concern Jack Aubrey, a ship captain in the English Navy at the time of the Napoleonic Wars, and his great friend Stephen Maturin, an Irish-Catalan doctor and spy who in the first book joins Jack's crew as ship doctor.As H.
In addition, the many minor characters are fascinating: the envoy Mr. Stanhope, Stephen's Indian friend, the various ship's officers and men, other ship captains, and so on.
And O'Brian's depiction of the building of an effective crew, the relationship of captain to officers to men, is another fascinating detail, and something he revisits from book to book, as Jack encounters different crews in different circumstances.
This, the third of Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey-Maturin series, gave me great pleasure in reading.
Indeed, there's plenty of distance in this story where Aubrey travels farther afield than in any of the previous volumes, out to the Indian Ocean on a diplomatic mission, wherein much of the book's charm lies.O'Brian uses his same eye for detail to describe the exotic locations and people living there as he does to bring to world of his 'wooden walls' to life.
Quite possibly the finest of the entire 20-volume Aubrey/Maturin series by Patrick O'Brian, partly because the character of Stephen Maturin is so ruthlessly exposed. First, his attachment to Diana Villiers comes to a head. Second, his utter devastation after the death of Dil. And, finally, his duel with Canning and self-surgery afterwards. Top that with the Surprise's brilliant action against Linois to save the China Fleet and Aubrey's reattachment to Sophie, and you have a truly wondrous work. Oh, and there is a debauched sloth.
I'm not going to add all twenty O'Brians here, because I don't really have individual reviews for them. . . . All twenty just stand in my mind as one long reading experience of near-unalloyed pleasure. But H.M.S. SURPRISE was an especial favorite among those twenty, featuring Jack's first journey on the Surprise, Stephen's first (?) major betrayal by Diana, a duel, and of course the debauched sloth.
'Surprise' felt a little uneven this time through, and despite a breathless second act and an emotional denouement, I put it back on my shelf a little disappointed.This disappointment feels strange, though, because there is so much that I love in the story.
One of my favourite fictional naval actions, Captain Jack Aubrey's defense of the East India Company's China Fleet through subterfuge and ballsiness, runs for nearly the entirety of the story's second act, and it stands out as one of the best battles in a series that spans twenty-one books.
The opening scene of "HMS Surprise" — which pits the venerable spymaster Sir Joseph Blain against the incompetent new First Lord of the admiralty and a cohort of greedy, politicking officials — is a study in what makes Patrick O'Brian perhaps the greatest genre novelist of all time and one of the premiere prose stylists of the 20th century.With an economy and subtlety that are dazzling, he is able to lay bare the souls of both institutions and individuals in a way that reveals how intricately the one is bound up in the other.
By showing how character and competence ultimately determine the fate of nations, O'Brian does us the rare favor (after George W.
Noone can write naval battles as good as O'Brian. Love this book alot, despite the silly Stephen and his doomed devotion to Diana Villiers. Jack, you rock! Now I really have to finish the rest of the series. Beat the quarters!
A troop of geckoes stood on the table to eat the dazzled moths.The end of the chapter is nearly unbearable as it brings one brief but profoundly poignant story thread to a close.After a moment he stood up.
Unfortunately, once again, Patrick O'Brian restrains his wonderful gift of describing nautical action, and instead develops the relationship between Captain Jack Aubrey and surgeon Stephen Maturin.
There's another chapter about a wicked south sea storm that rages around the Cape of Good Hope that's beautifully, vividly written, but then it's over.O'Brian has no modern peer that portrays naval life in such lilting, but direct imagery.
Here's how Patrick O'Brian ropes you into these books:Make the beginning and the end so good, so ridiculously compelling, that you completely forget about the bombastic, flowery, tediously overwrought writing throughout much of the middle.
This third installment also had a lot more going on personally with all of the characters, which I felt added more depth than the second book.
As for Patrick Tull's narration, I decided to give him a try for this book.
I'll be going back to Simon Vance's versions for the rest of the series.
But for all that, The first part was very strong in the Aubrey/Maturin friendship as Jack braves an enemy port to rescue Stephen from a torture chamber, and Stephen's slow recovery back somewhat to his old self.
(I really do not like that woman, and Stephen is a hopeless fool for pining after her so.)The ending was great, however, as Jack gets his heart's desire from the fair Miss Williams, and Stephen learns that he's able to cope without the daily 4000 drops of laudanum that had previously been his crutch to get him through the day.I only wish there had been a bit more mission and drive in the central section of the story.
But an excellent installment, several source scenes for the movie, including Stephen operating on himself, and Jack's initials at the foretop.
Best quote ever: "Jack, you have debauched my sloth." Funny words: superfetation (= accretion), vatinication (foresee, prophecy), roborative (doesn't seem to be in the dictionary, but probably a variant of roborant, which means having a strengthening effect, and not robotic screed).On re-reading in 2016Truly one of the greats.
Some great ship-to-ship action, development of Jack and Stephen's relationship and their trouble with the ladies, a duel, a sloth, quite a bit of committing, and self-surgery.
Difficult to imagine a more satisfying reading experience.
This time Aubrey and Maturin make a long and difficult passage from Brazil to India, venturing close to Antarctica in the process.
Albatrosses, storms at sea, a great battle against the French in an attempt to protect a East Indian merchant fleet, and a strong cast of supporting characters make this a great read with some moments of deep sadness.
"I am of her caste" was a line that brought me to tears, and the focus on Stephen's internal life (which Jack is often not privy to, or truly able to comprehend, one suspects)makes this a very moving read at times.
I think I could be content with never reading another one of these wonderful stories, but I would not be happy!
Number three was another 10 for me!
I love those salty old sailors and Captain Aubrey's friendship with Doctor Maturin is such a highlight of the stories.
The Doctor's role as an intelligence man is expanded and Jack has to go rescue him and all of the crew volunteers to go!
A shocking duel and the Doctor operates on himself.
Jack stays by his side and nurses him through it all.
Jack and Sophie finally get to agree to a wedding.
Not literature, but a lot of fun.Too much back story in the first chapter, though disguising it as an Admiralty board hearing softened the blow.As usual eyeball deep in nineteenth century naval terminology, but enough human interest to keep us engaged.
Brilliant, love the ongoing friendship of Aubrey and Maturin. Also like the fact that Maturin has secrets from Aubrey, they have disagreements, fights and eventually things get worked out between them.
But they also offer something quite unusual for historical fiction: the travels of captain Jack Aubrey and his doctor Stephen Maturin become the author’s palette for expressions of classical and philosophical erudition that are basically gratuitous, but never less than entertaining.It’s commonly observed that O’Brian’s historical novels read much like one continuous manuscript that spans some twenty volumes, but this third instalment ('HMS Surprise') feels more like a standalone work than the first two books.
But Stephen had caught up a small holystone and he was earnestly spreading the pitch far, deep and wide, surrounded by a ring of anxious, flustered seamen when four bells struck, and to the infinite distress of the afterguard a huge shadow fell across the deck – the captain, stark naked and carrying a towel.'Good morning, Doctor,' he said.
He has such an outrageous sense of humour, I adore it.And the following is wonderfully inspired by this post.He dismissed the calculations for the moment and swam towards the boat towing behind, where Stephen was clinging to the gunwale and calling out something about the Hellespont, incomprehensible for the gasping.'Did you see me?' he cried as Jack came nearer.
In other words, it's yet another fine, complex, involving O'Brian novel.Patrick O'Brian is steeped in the period of the early 19th Century and his knowledge of the language, manners, politics, social mores and naval matters of the time is deep and wide.
The books are so perfectly paced, with some calmer, quieter but still engrossing passages and some quite thrilling action sequences.
O'Brian's handling of language is masterly, with the dialogue being especially brilliant, but also things like the way his sentences become shorter and more staccato in the action passages, making them heart-poundingly exciting.
They are that rare thing; fine literature which are also books which I can't wait to read more of.
Aubrey seems to get the better of the this deal because the Doctor continues to chase the infamous Diana Villiers, with uncertain and undesirable consequences.Unlike most books of this kind, the main focus is on the characters and not on so much on the story and naval actions.
Having said that, you still need to have a naval terminology book, or Google handy to fully understand all the sailing sections.
I found my self having to look up numerous words that I have never seen before.These books take some effort to read, but overall I think it's worth it.
Ha-emnh, ecco a voi la mia "ponderata" recensione della terza puntata della serie di Aubrey & Maturin:(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I'm mystified as to why this series is considered by many to be the greatest historical fiction ever written, and particularly for the Age of Sail fiction, O'Brian is often considered better than the master of the genre C.S. Forester.
The scenes in which Jack Aubrey is the narrator are always the best, especially the naval battles, both with other ships and with the deadliness of the sea itself.
The scenes in which Jack grooms a fleet of merchant ships to impersonate men-o'-war to fight a French squandron are some of the most exciting in the entire book.
"Jack, you have debauched my sloth....
(in French) your sordid morals … you are trying to corrupt my sloth … come on then, you bastard … you silly cad …”What would lead Stephen to rip Jack so thoroughly?
Well, Stephen's passionate about chronicling the natural world and observing the behavior of nonhuman animals.
Jack feels insecure about the sloth's seeming ambivalence toward him.
So, Jack tries to win the sloth's affection by plying it with food and booze.
O'Brian's a master at depicting relational (bromantic?) truth.
Aubrey-Maturin nails it in so many ways.For the first time, O'Brian ends one of the novels with a sort-of cliffhanger.
