https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/672222.Pale_Horse_Pale_Rider
the afterlife as a just reward - Jesus has taken the sting of death away; the victory that lies beyond the grave - for all those who love Him. but alas, there is no such savior, no such leavening of pain, no embracing of the afterworld in the three novellas that comprise Pale Horse, Pale Rider."Old Mortality"first: death is a mask, a veil, a shadow cast long and dark...
I read this as if I were reading a story of fantasy."Noon Wine"second: death is a sudden thorn in the side, a surprise bite from an animal that you did not know was beside you.
Na Parte III (1912) Miranda é a protagonista, a alter-ego de Katherine Anne Porter, em viagem de combóio para o funeral do seu tio Gabriel, encontra Eva Parrington, presente na Parte I, a sua prima solteirona, professora de latim, defensora dos direitos das mulheres, num diálogo brilhante e partilhado, onde são feitas revelações; Miranda fugiu do colégio por amor e para se casar – e Eva relata problemas familiares, memórias e ilusões que Miranda desconhecia, elementos fundamentais, que acabam por acentuar e personificar uma alteração no comportamento feminino, que tal como Amy, está dividida entre o amor e a rejeição familiar, onde as tradições familiares acabam por ter extrema importância.“O Vinho do Meio-Dia” é a segunda novela “curta” de “Cavalo Pálido, Pálido Cavaleiro” e foi inicialmente publicada em 1937.
Porter, that is, brings off her climax in the midst of hallucination.
Porter's Miranda shares a number of struggles with her author: a young woman writer working freelance and living on a shoestring, trying to honestly dig into the arts and at the same time turn out her heart's inner sediments for her sometime-lover Adam, a reluctant soldier.
The lies that drive these young people into harm's way cohere as a sickness that infects the very spirit of a nation...
and here in the midst of Oil War II, the mortal sickness lingers yet.
The humor seemed momentary, but the bitterness was a constant state of mind.William Gass's Fifty Literary Pillars, which is a list of the 50 books that influenced him most, contains this book: one of only 4 by female authors (the others were Virginia Woolf, Colette, and Gertrude Stein), so I thought I had to check this out.It's a book of 3 novellas (or long short stories).
I get the impression that the author had a dark view of knowledge, what can be gained from it and what will inevitably be lost.
“Old Mortality” traces the life of Amy, a long-dead aunt of the two young girls who tell her story – or reassemble it – over a period of years.
“Noon Wine,” – my favorite of the three – tells of the relationship between a farming family in Texas and an iterant worker from North Dakota that becomes symbiotic over the years, but ends violently when the specter from the worker’s past turns up.
“Pale Horse, Pale Rider,” tells the story of a young woman just at the end of WW I, who falls in love with a soldier about to be sent to the front, but at the same time as she contracts influenza.
I read this as a teenager and to this date have never ever forgotten it. I get goose bumps remembering it. One day I will reread, and see what I think of it almost 40 years later, especially now that I know it was about the 1911 flu pandemic.
Forse perché i personaggi si scoprono poco alla volta ed ogni strato porta ad un altro, in verticale.La scoperta di quella vita lontana convince Miranda a prendere le distanze da tutto e farsi una vita propria, nuova, dove la verità riguarderà solo ciò che accadrà a lei.Vino a mezzodìQui esce il sangue texano della Porter in una storia che ha tutti i sapori del sud.Una fattoria stentata, un uomo semplice, una moglie dalla salute fragile, due ragazzini da crescere.Un giorno compare un uomo, Olaf, di poche parole e poche esigenze: un fienile e le sue armoniche.Passano gli anni nel silenzio dello svedese che è diventato il sostegno della fattoria, ciò che Thompson non è riuscito ad essere.E dato che puoi abitare nel centro del territorio più solitario del mondo, ma ci sarà sempre chi viene a rovinarti la vita, anche Thompson dovrà fare i conti con una realtà durissima.
I came to this while looking through the "Literary Pillars" by Gass. I'm a sucker for Southern Gothic, and two-out-of-three of these short novels are absolute killers. "Noon Wine" is canonical, the best 'genre' work I've read in a while. Pick it up, read it, put it down. Then find yourself shell-shocked for the rest of the evening. Sorta like listening to the Bay City Rollers.
The process of realization of this issue, and rebellion against it, is reminiscent of Riochard Wright’s “Almos’ A Man,” although in the latter the environment is the deep South and the characters are African-American’ the theme remains the same, however.The second, “Noon Wine, involves a farmer who becomes involved with a drifter from North Dakota who helps him for some 20 or so years and helps his small dairy farm thrive.
Nonetheless, the story, while ending up with some tragedy, also emphasizes strength of character in going on and emotionally surviving after traumatic experiences.I would recommend this book highly, and indeed if I can locate Butch again after these many years, I plan to send this review to him.
This holds characterizations that are struck deeply. Some of the best I've read in my life to sickness and to the discontent of "not fitting"- as well. All three novellas are brilliant.I'm doing a reread and the review will be forthcoming. Probably after Thanksgiving.
For decades I have wanted to read Pale Horse, Pale Rider, but who recommended it or what they might have said is lost in the cobwebs of my mind.
in no way did it disappoint.
The strength of that WWI bleakness squirms through the story.
There is the same bleak view as in They Shoot Horses, Don't They?
Except for rare occasions of feverish joy, I've always felt this way.
It's so wonderful to find an author who puts it in words, like a secret we share long after she's gone.I'll write more after I read the other two novellas.
A girl I worked with and took classes with in college wrote her senior thesis on Porter's 'feminist' revisions of Faulkner, but I suppose I was so busy with my own thesis & worries about grad school that I didn't pick her up at that time and simply forgot about her until forced to read these three short novels (not "novellas", says Porter!) for a seminar last month.
The first is a kind of coming-of-age tale; two young Southern girls confront their dynastic histories, particularly w/r/t a sexually non-conformist aunt, who was both beloved and despised by her family, and who met a tragic end that seems to have tidied her excesses enough to make her palatable for the 'dark romance' that surrounds her by the time the girls begin hearing stories about her.
While all three novellas in this book are excellent, both "Noon Wine" and "Pale Horse, Pale Rider" quietly tragic, my heart belongs to "Old Mortality." The first story in the collection, it explores how a family's reverence for its past generations tends to be as romantic as it is based in reality.
"Pale Horse, Pale Rider" continues where "Old Mortality" left off, with the story of the family's youngest generation, Miranda, as she falls in love with a soldier and catches influenza during World War I.
In fact, the book has not much to do with horses, although it has some to do with them.
Katherine Anne Porter is a brilliant writer--I'd compare her easily to Steinbeck, with a distinctly feminine and completely unique style.
Now, I haven't read any of her other work, but bleak is the very tone of Pale Horse, Pale Rider.
It's three short novels in one book.
I didn't like the title, Noon Wine, of the second story, so I went to the title story, Pale Horse...
Reader, in my opinion you won't find many better written, in a unique, yet classic style, than Pale Horse, Pale rider.
If there is, I really just don't care.There are some books that are very sad, as if the dog dies heroically at the end, and everyone cries.
Sometimes we all need a good cry.There are other books where the author goes out of there way to show the reader how horrible the universe can be, as if the dog dies meaninglessly near the beginning of the book, and the characters spend the rest of the book kicking its poor, dead body.Yes, the universe can be a horrible place.
I certainly don't want or need to read about it.
"Don't you love weather and the colors at different times of the day, and all the sounds and noises like children screaming in the next lot, and the automobile horns and little bands playing in the street and the sound of food cooking?" It's always good when I enjoy reading something I'm studying.
I refer only to the title piece "Pale Horse, Pale Rider" in this review, although I'm keen to try some of Katherine Anne Porter's other short stories having enjoyed this one.Dreams, illness, a backdrop of war and the pain of love with the fear of time running out...
Fuck. Fuckkkk. It's amazing how Porter's unshowy writing has caused me to spiral down a lovely backroad of existential dread. "Pale Horse, Pale Rider" > Soderbergh's Contagion but "Old Mortality" is the standout for me.
4,5 stars! i'll be thinking about these stories for a long time to come.
I thought the first -  Old Mortality - brought a time and place to life vividly and created an almost voyeuristic feeling - not unlike those opening scenes of Geraldine Page in The Trip to Bountiful.
So perfectly realized were these characters that I recognized cousin Eva Parrington pages before Miranda did.
The second short novel is the very famous Noon Wine - a tragic family saga that plays out in roughly sixty pages.
It is a love story, and again a tragic tale about the capricious nature of love and life and death.
The word that comes to mind is 'masterful'. Porter has been mentioned in the same breath as Flaubert and Hawthorne, and I see why. Particularly in the first two stories, Old Mortality and Noon Wine, detailed depictions of each character, as well as their thoughts, reveal truths that otherwise in our day-to-day life lie just beyond our consciousness -- a rare gift only the finest writers have. Beyond that, the most vast themes of human existence are explored and illuminated, sometimes openly, and always within the fabric of the stories themselves.
Old Mortality is a fine study of family myths, gender, independence. Pale Horse has an interesting portrait of feverish hallucination. Noon Wine is a bit thin.
Bitterness and death cloak the corners of every room, every moment.
We must outrun Death and Devil, she said; but they ride along.
Pale Horse, Pale Rider.
In comforting horror, Death beckons and awaits.
Look, she told herself, there it is, that is death and there is nothing to fear.
But she could not consent, still shrinking stiffly against the granite wall that was her childhood dream of safety, breathing slowly for fear of squandering breath, saying desperately, Look, don't be afraid, it is nothing, it is only eternity." -Pale Horse, Pale Rider
Short and intense.
The first novella, "Old Mortality," is a rich evocation of the American South during the early twentieth century, complete with horse races, large families (with expectations), courtship etiquette, womens' hats, and hunting.
The second, "Noon Wine," is a more traditional tale whose beneath-the-surface tension violently erupts to great effect.
The final one, "Pale Horse, Pale Rider," follows a young woman to the other side of death in her battle with Spanish influenza.
Equally adept at describing a dairy farm or a melody, following characters' conversations or inner monologues, Porter is an excellent writer, and these novellas should be more widely read.
Each of these stories is, in its own way, heartbreaking. Porter weaves disillusionment, bitterness and death around the meager lives of early 20th century Americans, of southerners both high and low who find their values and sense of themselves being re-shaped and torn apart by bad fortunes and by modernizing forces utterly beyond their control. Her Gothic pessimism is beautifully realized. If you like Flannery O'Connor, you will probably love these.
Wonderfully written stories, without a wasted word. I adored Ship of Fools, and now must re-read it.
La edición de Narrativa Selecta que llegó a mis manos por cuestiones del azar presenta esta pequeña novela junto a tres relatos fascinantes.
Pequeña novela pseudo-onírica, llena de reflexiones impresionantes sobre la vida moderna norteamericana y el empoderamiento de la mujer en la sociedad de consumo y el mundo laboral.
La protagonista de esta novela es un híbrido entre lo tradicional y el nuevo discurso del siglo XX, una persona en medio de dos generaciones y eso hace que sus reflexiones se conviertan en un ir y venir de sentimientos contradictorios.
Gran novela, llena de cariño, pequeños gestos elegantes y tiernos y escrita de manera magistral.
Noon Wine is good, disturbing, crystal-clear even as it describes confusion; Old Mortality is very good at capturing the undercurrents that go unspoken in family histories and what we make of them; but Pale Horse, Pale Rider is phenomenal. Terrifying, wry, sad, visionary, unflinching, hands-down, give-up-the-farm, pretenders out there don't even come close. The only reason I can think of why everyone in this country doesn't read this story is because it's too good at describing death, and it's frightening. I'm sure I'll read this again. And again. And again.
Porter should be recognized more in American canon – every bit as good as Hemingway and Fitzgerald.
Miranda vows to make her life her own, even if she realizes her own life will likely not be one of greatness or rejoicing.The last piece, "Pale Horse, Pale Rider," finds Miranda at 24, living in a distant city as a newspaper theater critic (the setting is not specified, but it is clearly not Southern, and many critics assume Denver, since Porter worked as a reporter there when she was 24).
As recommended in NYTBR "By The Book" interview of Rachel Cusk:"What’s your favorite book no one else has heard of?I’m always astonished by how few people know Katherine Anne Porter, in the U.K. at least. I don’t really know what I’d be if I hadn’t read her: The stories in “Pale Horse, Pale Rider” gave me so much to navigate by, both personally and artistically. Her writing is a sustained display of moral competence that at a certain point — having never thought very clearly about the gender of a text — I recognized as female authority."https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/05/bo...
