https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/866222.Winning
1) Keep your HR Director on the Senior Team.2) The top 20% usually do a great job of managing their work-life balance because they've learned to cultivate relationships, budget time, set boundaries and absorb surprises.
Crisis at home seldom spills over to work.
By contrast, the other 80% usually have trouble keeping things in check because they lack these skills or cannot seem to translate them from one environment to the other.
3) Avoid people/weed out people who think/talk/act like victims.
4) There's something to merit rewards, even in a church setting.
We don't need consultants to tell us what to do.In the most common scenario, a company's mission and its values rupture due to the little crises of daily life in business.CANDOR, VOICE AND DIGNITYLack of candor blocks smart ideas, fast action and good people contributing all the stuff they've got.
In fact, I think it is particularly valuable for our kids because it prepare them for what the real world looks like and what they should do in order to succeed (not just to climb the corporate ladder but to achieve job satisfaction).For instance, it points out quite a number of key problems with most Chinese companies: no clear company vision, lack of candor, lack of differentiation, and lack of respect for the workers, to name just a few.I highly recommend this book to MBA students because unlike other management books that usually sound theoretical, this book explores the real work environment and hence can stimulate a lot of real-life discussion.
To stimulate your sharing during the bridge session, here are some questions that you can find some advices in the book:1.
How can any business-person in China practice candor and differentiation when “only the voice of the boss is allowed”?3.
خلاصة تجربة رائعة لاحد اهم المدراء التنفيذين في القرن الحادي والعشرين . سوف يمدك الكتاب بنصائح رائعة عن بيئة العمل وما هي طرق النجاح فيها. انصح الجميع بقراءته فسوف يحدث فرقا في تفكيرك
A lot of what I see at work made so much more sense after reading what Jack wrote.I say Jack because I felt almost like he was sitting down with me in a one-on-one setting, giving me his opinion about all things business in a rather personal setting.
Even more interesting was his perspective on the topics that grunt peons such as myself know very well.Perhaps the best example from this category was the chapter on work-life balance.
But after reading what Jack had to say about it, I came to realize that all the other people I ever heard talk about work-life balance did so from the employee's perspective.
I'm not particularly interested in business management on a practical level, but these corporate self-help books have always intrigued me.
Really, though, I'm more interested in the type of people who get excited from reading books like this.
Because, while the parts of the book about improving corporate efficiency and quality are fine and dandy, much of the book focuses on, basically, how to get people to do what you want them to do.
I wonder how comfortable these people are with the basic management mindset that how you treat another person is ultimately based on how you want them to act or respond; you do things for or to people to produce an outcome.
Welch talks a lot about ethics and the need to win fairly while maintaining high ethical standards.
He is a straight talker and advocates that for everyone … the term he uses is candor, and the need to foster candor in the corporate environment eliminating a lot of “politics” Welch has opinions on just about every aspect of running a successful business, from Leadership to hiring & firing, from people management to crisis management.
On strategy he talks about finding the “big idea”; about finding the right people and applying best practicesThis is one of the most important business books I've readand one of the simplest to understand.
The biggest takeaway from this book is Welch's philosophy: GE doesn't hire the brightest because they don't buy his bulldozer style.
GE hires those who are driven, ambitious and determined to succeed with grit, tenacity and unquestioning subordination to the GE way of life.Welch managed GE in an era where American manufacturing led the country's economic growth.
Welch's management philosophy worked well in the 80s-90s.
It's a paradigm shift and the company would need to loosen up the Welch era of rigid management style to promote more nimble and responsive units within the organisation that can respond quickly to changing market dynamics and promote a culture of business innovation.
Winning.
Winning.
Winning.
Where do I even start with Winning?
This is an audiobook/book that I listen to and read ALL THE TIME.
If you get the audiobook, keep in mind that this is narrated by Jack Welch.
I'm a pretty big Jack Welch fan, but there are some down points.
Some people might shy away from the book because he's talking about GE and you might not have a business that big.
If you dream about hiring, Winning will also shape that.
When that fateful day comes that Mr. Welch is no longer here, this book will stand tall even after his passing.
A few pages into the book I was shocked at how American this book is. If employees don't deliver, get rid of them is one of the messages. If business units don't deliver (are number 1 or 2 in their sectors), shut them down. Of course, there is nothing wrong with this advice, it's just very difficult to implement. Not that I've had to, as of yet. Anywhow, Welch has been very succesful throughout his career and this book is his concise take on business. There is definitely constructive input to be had from this book, even for Scandinavians.
This book is the heart of HR department, great book would give you some hits and ways to evaluate and choose your career. Nevertheless , Jack exaggerates the importuning of HR which is not the reality. Read Winning the Answers book as added value on top of the Winning book.كتاب ممتاز ، اعتبره قلب قسم إدارة الموارد البشرية ، فيه بعض النصائح والإرشادات عن تقييم الوضع الحالي و المستقبلي للموظفمال الكاتب إلى تضخيم أهميه وظيفية إدارة الموارد البشريه في قيادة الشركة ، مما أتوقع انه ليس واقعيا، حبيت الكتيب - winning the answers
Хорошие и очень ценные уроки от одного из лучших топ-менеджеров мира. Уэлч в свое время вытянул из кризиса компанию General Electric и сделал её одной из самых успешных в мире (с 1981 по 2001 гг., общая стоимость корпорации возросла в 30 раз - с 14 до почти 400 миллиардов долларов. General Electric стала второй компанией по прибыльности в мире). Теперь Джек ушёл на заслуженный отдых и делится своим богатым опытом со всеми кому это интересно и необходимо. Хорошая книга и сам автор достоин уважения.
The boss would then disappear until the end of the session, so as not to stifle open discussion, returning only at the end to make good on his or her promise.What Leaders Do1) Leaders relentlessly upgrade their team, using every encounter as an opportunity to evaluate, coach, and build self-confidence.2) Leaders make sure people not only see the vision, they live and breathe it.3) Leaders get into everyone's skin, exuding positive energy and optimism.4) Leaders establish trust with candor, transparency, and credit.5) Leaders have the courage to make unpopular decisions and gut calls.6) Leaders probe and push with a curiosity that borders on skepticism, making sure their questions are answered with action.7) Leaders inspire risk taking and learning by setting the example.8) Leaders celebrate.You have to evaluate - making sure the right people are in the right jobs, supporting and advancing those who are, and moving out those who are not.You have to coach - guiding, critiquing, and helping people to improve their performance in every way.You have to build self-confidence - pouring out encouragement, caring, and recognition.
It as well suggests the best practices of companies that win.This book covers all the topics that management have to concern, starting from how to set corporate vision and values, candor as the best way to communicate internally, how to differentiate people, what good leaders should do.
It also includes how to hire, manage, and even fire people, as well as "change before you have to change", crisis management, budgeting and evaluation, how to grow your business organically (in other word, horizontally), concerns and pitfalls in mergers and acquisitions, and Six Sigma as a quality improvement program.The book even cover personal part on your career, including work-life balance that he admitted he could not do this well himself.If you have not read this book yet, I strongly recommend it is really worth your time.
When compared the the business books that claim to have a magic formula that applies to any business, person or situation, the opinionated perspective of one guy and his experience was a welcome relief.
More often though I found the insights spot-on, and I often found that I had tuned out of the book because it got my mind racing in terms of how it applies to my situations.
I finished the book feeling that I had gotten a lot for the time I spent on it.
Wide-ranging business advice from someone who was very successful over the course of his career.
Topics include performance reviews, mergers and acquisitions, strategy, budgeting, hiring, and firing.My favorite part was the bit about building trust in the organization through candor.
In social life we've learned to be polite, not be critical of others, etc.
In business you have to be honest, direct, and straight-forward with people, especially when you have critical feedback for them.
In a word, candor.Unlike other books on business, this was not a meta-review of many great businesses (e.g.
"Good to Great") or a consultant trying to peddle their wares (most of them).
Structured, provided with patterns, based on Jack's personal background, applicable to weather senior or middle leaders as well as to new managers. Absolutely fits to most markets around. I'd recommend to people who want to broaden their business acumen and to get an entire picture how business works in terms of people management, strategy setting up and business development mostly (as to me)!
...Shall be read along with The Lexus and The Olive Tree-Thomas Friedman."Despite all the flags on First Avenue, there are no nations any more. Only companies. lnternational companies. lt's where we are. lt's what we are" - Kuman-Kuman from scene of "The Interpreter"
I was really surprised about how much I enjoyed this book. Straight forward, practical, no bs management book. Covers everything from leading people to setting budgets. He isn’t afraid to disagree with contemporary corporate fluff, which takes a bit to adjust to—but you gain an appreciation for it. His primary philosophy is that organisations should be a meritocracy and cuts out anything that interferes with that.
Polecam wszystkim początkującym adeptom sztuki zarządzania, są przeleciane w niej praktycznie wszystkie 'najgrubsze' tematy: Misja, zatrudnianie, etc. Bedzie dobre jako pierwsza ksiazka o zarzadzaniu w ogole.
It just felt natural to speak openly, argue and debate, and get things to happen fast.-What leaders do: -relentlessly upgrade their team, using every encounter as an opportunity to evaluate, coach, and build self-confidence -make sure people not only see the vision, they live and breathe it -get into everyone's skin, exuding positive energy and optimism -establish trust with candor, transparency and credit -have the courage to make unpopular decisions and gut calls -probe and push with a curiosity that borders on skepticism, making sure their questions are answered with action -inspire risk taking and learning by setting the example -celebrate -Self-confidence energizes, and it gives your people the courage to stretch, take risks and achieve beyond their dreams; it is the fuel of winning teams.-Effective people know when to stop assessing and make a tough call, even without total information.
He's a somewhat blunt (candor), lonely, divorced (and remarried), alienated father of 2 children...oh yeah, and he's also one of the most successful business leaders of our time, and a millionaire.Looking back, this book makes me now think of Outliers, by Malcolm Gladwell.
It's only successful when candor is the guiding element of performance reviewsI liked the book, but felt sorry for Jack Welch.
No business success could compensate for a failed family.I wonder if he followed the same principle of candor at home, "Honey, I'm not going to be around because I'm going to work 100 hrs a week for the next 30 years.
Mismatch between mission statement and business- Enron Auditing vs Enron Consultancy3.The GE Work-Out!!
4.Divide every organization into the top 20, middle 70 & bottom 10 percent.
Treat the stars well- heavy bonuses, fat compensation & benefits, but let them stay grounded.
Motivate the middle 70 percent to improve- they are your backbone and indispensable.
Work towards slowly replacing the bottom 10.
5.The best place to be boss is when the people around you are smarter than you are.
Don't be held reverse hostage8.Work-life balance is all about trading off.
People with higher reserves of 'chits' can use them for benefits.
You feel like you're sitting in the room with him and having a conversation with him.
He's mentoring you through his book.After completing an MBA, I feel like all business students should read this book.
However, it's not just a book for business leaders, as some of my favorite chapters were about how to manage your own career and enjoy your job.
He breaks the book down into: The most important things (mission, values, candor)Your companyYour competitionYour CareerTyping Up Loose EndsIt's a very easy read and I couldn't put it down.
Even though it's over 300 pages long, it's definitely well worth the read!
When Warren Buffett says that - "No other management book would ever be needed", he is right on the money.
Jack Welch, the most celebrated CEO of the corporate world, lays down a water-tight blueprint for winning in business.
A striking feature of this book is that he always gives you his perspective as black and(or) white.
Probably, this stems from the fact that at the outset he declares that his work is entirely based on the experiences he had while attending/chairing multiple Q&A sessions on - How To Win!
Jack has provided multiple frameworks for many facets of the business that would definitely help you WIN.
A fantastic read for a management disciple !
I would recommend this book to anyone no matter if you are a business person or not. I really loved this book and kept talking to Shawn about it. I think his theories can apply to everyone in whatever they are doing in life. I kept thinking about the characteristics of a "winning person" and what I can do to improve. Basically his take home message is that a "winning person" is one who helps others succeed in life. What a great message. He gives lots of great practical advice for self-improvement.
(Although a bit dated) This book is a good read on how to deal with -nearly- everything regarding business life.
The author, being an experienced and also a well-known business leader, shares a ton of advice on corporate matters.It was in 2006 when I first read this book, taking pages and pages of personal notes at the time.
Today, I've passed through those notes (22 pages of personal notes in total -- I could not believe myself for those fabulous notes).
In addition, I've made some partial reading from the book on topics that are relevant to my current business conditions.
i really enjoyed this...jack welch is definitely not a politically correct author, but i appreciated his candor and insight in to what makes a company great. i would do some things differently than he did, but I found him to be remarkably thoughtful in his processes; from hiring and firing, to creativity and innovation. i think this book would be of particular value to executives in a corporate setting but many of his tenets will translate to (and challenge) smaller business owners as well.
Easy to read, extremely useful and full of practical advises you'd like to apply once you read them. This is a must read directional guide not only for former executives, but also for those who are going to be a leader.  Author enreached his book with plenty of stories and real life examples illustrating each advise or principle.
The journey of Jack Welsh in GE inspired me a lot to start up my own business, moreover I started my MBA after reading this book.I recommend the book for all those who think of starting a business or being a future executive
