https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3474186-forever-princess
When I sat down on the couch tonight with this book, I was honestly just planning on reading a few pages.
. NOT the entire book for sure in one sitting .
I was so happy that Micheal was a bigger part since he's one of my favorite characters.
It was really odd to start it and have it take place almost two years after the last (since most of them take place almost immediately after the events of the previous book).
I loved this ending and I'm SO HAPPY I can finally read.
I'm going to bed now but I'll definitely start it tomorrow!
I CANT EVEN DEAL RIGHT NOW
It is a reflection of my thoughts immediately after reading this book, and therefore, there will be caps-locking and excessive exclamation marks.
There was no WAY Mia would come out of this with a boyfriend (I was highly supporting the idea that she'd end up "self-actualized", realizing she didn't need a guy to be awesome).
They don't know a good book, obviously.
Mia was with J.P. and the person she had become was not a very great one.
Slowly but surely as Michael re-enters the picture, the book picks up the momentum found way back in the very first volume that launched this epic story, and Meg Cabot does not lose momentum.
Feeling ALL the feels. All of them. Michael Moscovitz forever and ever.
My review, in numbered format:1. I still don't like Lilly very much.2. Tina and Lana are awesome.3. Mia is an idiot (although a lovable one). 4. Meg Cabot did not need 383 pages to tell this story.5. Grandmere is hilarious.6. Meg Cabot should have resisted the urges to include the pop culture references, for they will be sadly dated very soon.7. The twist with Mia's dad at the end is priceless.8. Michael is awesome, as is his final text message.
First of all, I would like to say that the author bragged the story too much... Well, there is no need of that.After 18 years of time finally, Mia came to her senses and knew that her soulmate was Micheal, not JP. And her best friend (Lilly) should have told Mia about JP, but then the story would not flow like this. And the other thing is that the author had to write 10 books to let Mia and Micheal get back together.😒Only one book is left to finish the series. 😍
The last book in the bestselling Princess Diaries series.
It was sad to see Mia go, but we had some good times together.
and I was there when Michael pledged his undying love to Mia!!( Okay, maybe that was a little egsagerated.
But he did write a poem for her to say he loved her!) I'm really going to miss Mia, and it's hard to say farwell.
And it's also sad, because no more MICHAEL MOSCOVITZ!!!!!!!!!!
Although I said I'm sad to say goodbye, I truly believe Meg Cabot has ended the series with a lovely happily ever after.....
For the first time in what feels like an incredibly long while, I finished a book in less than a day.
I stayed up until past 2 am reading this!And really, Mia does not disappoint with her last.
She could frustrate you, but in a way that's kind of amusing...
And, I can't explain why, but I found myself crying at some points.
I could relate to some of her experiences.The major reason why I'm giving this book a five is because, in all honesty, it's been a while since I've found myself completely immersed in what I'm reading.
I would have stopped reading the books long ago if it weren't' for my strange desire to see it all the way through, wanting to know how it would end for all the characters.I'm not going to critique the actual writing, because while I like to write and all, I am hardly a literary expert.
Instead, I will simply state all the things I disliked about the final volume.The previous installment, Princess Mia, saw some major changes for the main character.
So basically a person could wash their hair regularly, wear cleaned, ironed clothes that fit but just happen to be out of style - like acid washed jeans, for example - you shouldn't care about someone?
During the release of almost every book in the series, I've been the same age as Mia, so I could almost always relate to what was going on.
But this book in particular made me feel like I failed as a 17/18 year old.
Looks like the whole "royal heir to the throne of Genovia" thing got to Mia's head - she might as well be Lana Weinberger.
Could be that I am too old to read these now...
She's not 13 anymore, she shouldn't be worrying about petty little things, or acting as if she is the saviour of the environment and animals just because she is a princess, when in fact she's as careless as every other person.
And Mia's journey through high school is complete. I really liked how this one turned out. I was happy to see Mia's growth and, as she likes to say, self-actualization! Lol
“No one has ever died of embarrassment – never, not once in the whole history of time.Of which I am living proof, having a grandmother like mine” Mia Thermapolis And that pretty much sums up Meg Cabot’s last and final instalment in the hugely popular Princess Diaries series.
PROS: Mia or should we say Princess Amelia Mignonette Grimaldi Thermopolis Renaldo is at the tail-end of her senior year.
The book she has been secretly writing for the past two years gets rejected with alarming regularity by most of the publishers.
I don't even have anything to complain about really.Michael successfully made his CardioArm and became a millionaire....and he still loves Mia!!!
YES!But stupid selfish unsupportive JP is in the way.Still loving Lana!
She's totally awesome.
I really never thought I'd say that!I like how Mia is actually standing up to her Grandmother now.
He also wanted a movie deal for his stupid play and his suggestion for a book company to publish her book, even though they've never read it!
Their breakup was way too nice.
I don't care if Mia is a princess, he deserved wayyyy worse for the way he acted.
Yeah, right...4)The bodice ripper is (really) actually worse than "Twilight", but a publisher still decides that it is a great book and publishes it even BEFORE they find out that Princess Mia wrote it, NOT "Daphne Delacroix"5)If you really want to read the whole thing, Meg Cabot has actually had the chutzpah to let her publisher rake in some more money by publishing "Mia's" book on its own.6)Meg Cabot is the money whore of authors.
*4.5 stars*This was definitely the best book in the series. I LOVED it. The first 9 books were rated 3-4 stars, I enjoyed them but they were never my favourite. In this one, everyone was so much more mature, the pacing was so fast and flowed so well. I loved the sexual tension between Mia and Michael when he came back. It was just perfect. I cannot wait to read Royal Wedding now.
Reviewed by Sarah Bean the Green Bean Teen Queen for TeensReadToo.comPrincess Mia is back in the final installment in the PRINCESS DIARIES series.
I have enjoyed the PRINCESS DIARIES series ever since I read the first book and always enjoy escaping into Mia's world.
I think what I love most about the series is that Mia's voice is always fresh and funny and makes me giggle with girly happiness.
I have to admit that as much as I enjoyed this book, I was sad when I finished and I really hope that Meg Cabot will write about Mia's adventures after high school in the future.
I'll always be happy to read more about Princess Mia.
This book was much, much better than the last one.
And I say that when I was rooting for JP in the beginning.
I totally thought her and Michael were over, but I was wrong.
She finally became friends with Lilly again (I cannot believe they lasted two years without being friends!), and I loved Kenny wanting to be called Kenneth, and then how at the Prom, Lilly just called him Kenny.
JP was a huge jerk, which really surprised me, I thought he was a good guy.
That moment in the coffee shop with Michael (the interview for the Atom) was so adorable!
The end as so amazing, even if it surprised me!
Some can complain that this last installment was predicable, but I say: so what? It ended they way it was supposed to end and I am happy about it. I enjoyed the book very much, the ending was true to previous books in the series and extremely satisfying (unlike another YA series: Breaking Dawn anyone?).
In this books all the secrets come out. When i picked up this book i couldnt put it down. i was happy about the fact that mia ended up with michael instead of J.P I also liked the fact that Lilly and Mia forgave eachother and are best friends again
Ugh. And there is really no defense for this series' continued existence through ten indistinguishable books.
And there were so many nice things about this book that it makes the problems a lot easier to deal with.I’m still not over Lana Weinberger being Mia’s b.f.f. even though I did like some of her remarks.It’s Lana Weinberger.I hold grudges a lot longer than Mia does.I think it’s one of the reasons I went law school.
It takes place quite a while after the previous book, Mia is almost 18 and it has been two years since Michael moved to Japan and Lily had a falling out with Mia. It was weird, somewhat sad and surprisingly pleasant reading about everybody’s being moved on and in different places they were before.Mia’s problems were real this time (not considering the fact that most of them were her own doing) and whenever she expressed the hopelessness of her situations it seemed far less like whining and more like an adult’s struggle to cope with things.
It's clear that Cabot is winding up all her plot threads, which leaves less time for some of the laugh-out-loud funny moments or over the top Grandmere schemes that are so great in the other books in the series.And she doesn't exactly wind up *all* the plot threads.
When writing teachers admonish people to "show, not tell," I believe they do it for exactly such moments in literature as the one where I found out that Grandmere has been in group therapy with Mia and the cowboy psychiatrist, and we don't get to see any of it.
Mia is ridiculously obtuse but I forgive her. Michael Moscovitz has been beyond dreamy to me since I was like 13 so this was some major wish fulfillment. (Not as much as Royal Wedding is going to be, though.)
I will never get over how amazing and influential this series is.
Thank god it's finally OVER. Now I can relieve myself of this infernal teenage book series.
A time jump of nearly 2 years happens between the events of the last book and now. Mia is about to have her 18th birthday celebration, go to prom, and graduate high school. Wow, what an eventful book. Michael's been away in Japan developing the CardioArm, a huge surgical invention. But now he's back. Mia thought she was over him, but her feelings come back in full force. She's also trying to get her romance novel published under a pen name. This is one of my favorite books in the series and it wraps everything up so nicely.
April 21, 2009With a sick kid at home, I needed a break from the brooding atmosphere of Drood. The tenth and presumably final volume in the Princess Diaries series fit the bill.Meg Cabot is brilliant. I really admire the way she has brought her young and immature character to adulthood. Mia really is growing up, and unlike the Disney version, Mia is still a strong feminist, a sexual being, and a romance writer, and it all works so well.Good ending to a strong series. Mia grows up nicely.Library copy
This is the last book in this series. I have all of them and have enjoyed them all very much. I will admit I'll kinda miss reading the further adventures of Princess Mia, but all good things have to come to an end eventually. I have other books that Meg Cabot has written and I do like them a lot, so I'll probably continue to buy them.
Huh. Why don't I have a review of this one when I have one of book 9? Well, anyway, I still like this a lot. EVERYONE IS SO GROWN UP.And I've come around to being pretty excited for the new one, but this was a really good ending. Or anyway, a good wrap up of the high school years.STAYING UP ALL NIGHT TO READ ROYAL WEDDING. Or until I get tired anyway.
