https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1490693.The_Middle_Window
I have loved every Elizabeth Goudge book that I have ever read, but this one has haunted me since I read it. I used to own a copy, but through various moves had to let go of all of my personal library. I wish I still had a copy of this as I would curl up and reread it right now!!

It was one of her first, I believe and the characters were interesting but a bit one-dimensional and the plot was forced with a bit of a reincarnation theme/love story that I did not like.
EG writes about nature and her characters with great affection but I could tell this is one of her early works and a fellow reviewer of this book on Goodreads said she read that EG regretted writing this story promoting the reincarnation theme (which seemed artificial to me, anyway).I would only read this if I could get it free from the library as it has worth but I wish I had not bought a copy.
She wants something different from the status quo and desires to get off the social merry-go-round that has been all arranged for her.
An interweaving of histories and lives in a remote glen in Scotland...questions of death, life, and the spiritual world.
This book was a bit strange, on the edge of weird (a reincarnation theme was just WEIRD and I disliked it), but interspersed in throughout was the authors beautiful descriptions of nature, love, faith, and lovely, deep characters.
Judy's character was a bit self-focused seeming at times.
(Anyone wanna go to Scotland with me?
This was written a long time ago, but the surpris ending is fantastic. It is a story of love, but not a "chic-flick" book. It has mystery and self reflection. Love this story. Often wish I could go to "The Middle Window" myself.
This one of those EG stories that is a little difficult to get through but the ending stays with you for a while and reinforces everything you loved about the story.
I feel like this would've been so much better if she had mixed the stories together instead of basically having 2 separate books with an epilogue that joined them at the end...
I was JUST getting into Judy's story when it switched!
And to be honest the war parts in Judith's story didn't interest me a whole lot.
So this was a mixed bag.
Definitely not the best Elizabeth Goudge book I've read, but turned out better than I expected. Contained an interesting time twist which is not her usual style. There were some thought provoking ideas and her usual colorful descriptions, which made Scotland sound just beautiful.
Though she is easily one of my favorite authors I must acknowledge that even the best can fall off their pedestal on occasion and this was a definite stumble.Goudge's writing is typically old-fashioned, even quaint, sometimes sweet or flowery, but also possessing a depth I don't often encounter in novels.
Most Goudge fans know that she regretted writing The Middle Window and I suspect the subject of reincarnation may not have been the only thing that brought about her feelings of compunction, but perhaps also the gush-factor in the book.
While aimlessly wandering the stacks one day, I came across a section of old books with mysteriously vague titles: The White Witch, Tower in the Mist, The Middle Window.
I plucked the latter title off the shelf and dug in.
The story involves reincarnated lovers in the Scottish Highlands, and has some of the most beautiful descriptions of nature I've ever read.
Though an excellent mixture of history, mystery, and romance, the book does seem rather old-fashioned in its sentimentality -- but if you're willing to swallow your cynicism, it's a really enjoyable read.

Found this book on a secondhand bookstall when I was about 15yrs old. I absolutely Loved it! (Was beautifully reminded of the author when, 'The Little White Horse' was re-issued a few years ago.) Love the mystical everydayness which this book portrays.
I don't think Elizabeth Goudge believed in reincarnation. She was certainly a strong Christian. But this book is about reincarnation, and I don't recommend it. I think I read somewhere that later in life she regretted writing it.
Time travel and Scotland... before Diana Gabalden
I can't help but think of the Outlander saga and Susanna Kearsley's books, which also have a contemporary story combined with an historical one which takes place in Scotland around the same period.
The book is divided into two sections; the first being the story of the modern character, Judy Cameron, and the second, Judith MacDonald in 1745 -1746, with an epilogue going back to the modern Judy.
She was supposedly driven by a purpose, but what it was was unclear.For those who are Goudge fans, or who enjoy an historical fiction view of the events surrounding the battle of Culloden, or who like a story with reincarnation themes, this would be a book to read.
Since one can't honestly review a book without reading the whole thing at least once, and spending some thinking time about it as well, the problem generally doesn't arise.In this case I persevered with The Middle Window (though it took me numerous tries) because it is an early work by an author whom, for all her many flaws - purple prose, excessive sentimentality, long passages of vaguely theological navel-gazing, repeated use of the same characters under different names, and improbably worked out "happy" endings - I generally enjoy, and I was eager to add another title to the growing Elizabeth Goudge section on my shelves.
While acknowledging that it was published in 1939 and at time feels quite old-fashioned and perhaps a bit more flowery than what I normally read, I really enjoyed this book.The story is told in four parts (page counts approximate, may vary from edition to edition): 1) 10 page Prologue that is "modern" time (modern for a book published in 1939) explaining how Judy, her fiancee, and her parents come to be vacationing at a house in the highlands of Scotland called Glen Suilag,2) 130 pages covering approximately 9 weeks of her being there,3) 140 pages that take place in 1745-1746 (with the Laird of the Glen Suilag mostly fighting with Bonnie Prince Charles - although I'm pretty sure they never referred to him as Bonnie in the book)4) 17 page Epilogue that wraps up the story, it is NOT an epilogue in anything I recognize as one!It is a love story with a bit of history, but I wouldn't call it historical fiction or a romance novel.
I wasn't sure what I was about to get into picking up this book. It was interesting. I don't know if it is fantasy or romance or some hybrid of the two. The descriptions the author used was beautiful and I could actually see the views of the highlands from her details. I also loved the poems and songs throughout the book. I am still not sure if they were reincarnated or what, but it definitely makes me want to visit Scotland and tromp around the highlands.
I enjoyed parts of this book, and by reading other people's reviews, I knew what I was getting into. But overall it was just ok to me. But , with it being close to Halloween , it was fitting I think because it's a sort of haunted love story.
I like most of her books very much, I can read them again and again. But this one... A highly improbable story, very flat characters. It is clearly her first real novel, but she still had much to learn.
Why is the middle window boarded up?
What terrible thing came in through the middle window?The suspense builds throughout this historical romance, written by Elizabeth Goudge, a particular favorite of mine.
Back in 1935 Kirkus Reviews gave this book a starred review.
Give the book a try, and you may be able to agree.
The "paranormal romance" is popular these days, but was a fresher concept at the time this was written.
Judith Cameron, London socialite, happens to see three pictures in a shop window.
The middle picture particularly attracts her--a scene of a wild Scottish landscape.
While aimlessly wandering the stacks one day, I came across a section of old books with mysteriously vague titles: The White Witch, Tower in the Mist, The Middle Window.
I plucked the latter title off the shelf and dug in.
The story involves reincarnated lovers in the Scottish Highlands, and has some of the most beautiful descriptions of nature I've ever read.
Though an excellent mixture of history, mystery, and romance, the book does seem rather old-fashioned in its sentimentality -- but if you're willing to swallow your cynicism, it's a really enjoyable read.
I was a bit disapointed in this book, it was dreamy and amateurish.
Apparently her first book.
A City of Bells was so wonderful, plot and characters masterfully managed.On an extended stay with her parents and fiancee at a crumbling Scottish estate, Judy begins to realize she is the reincarnation of a noblewoman who lost her fugitive Scots Highlander husband in the war of 1745.
And that his ancestor is the reincarnation of the husband.And no, it doesn't quite work.
Goudge's prose concerning the natural beauty of the Scottish highlands is lovely as ever, but the plot is a bit silly.
A headstrong, privileged young woman forces her family to vacation in the highlands of Scotland, certain that whatever she needs so desperately will be found there.
Along the way, her story is echoed by a similar storyline taking place long ago.I really enjoyed this book, for a few reasons.
I honestly didn't care much about the storyline of the past coming back to haunt them, although I found it interesting.
I was hooked by Judy's journey, her moments of kindness and selfishness, her driving need to find the truth.
No one writes nature the way Elizabeth Goudge writes it. She somehow makes you feel as if you are really there, surrounded in the beauty of it. She's really quite magical. Even though this particular story is extremely odd and a more than a little sad, she still manages to evoke those feelings of being deeply affected by living things: the landscape, the people, the quiet life of a small village. It's not my favorite of hers, but it was still worth reading.
The Scottish highlands serve as a rough-hewn and primal backdrop to this tale that transcends the centuries including times of peace and times of war. This story of a young woman, restless concerning her current lifestyle, is drawn to redirect her families holiday at the beach to the above mentions highlands where events from two centuries earlier have a marked affect upon her. Elizabeth Goudge is able to keep her readers engaged in the binary tales of her novel.
I would give this one 3 1/2 stars. It is set in Scotland and is two books in one. The theme of this one is about a love relationship that is cut short and reappears at a much later period in history with two people who are drawn to each other. One is a descendent of the first couple and the other fills in for the partner. Again good, but not my favorite.
I remember reading this book forty some years ago. I don't remember a lot about it other than it dealt with remembering a past life in Scotland and the Battle of Culloden. But they book has stuck with me for all of these years, and I'd say that's a book worth reading again.
The premise of this book was just plain silly. It was the first Goudge title that I ever read that I disliked. It made a lot more sense after I read Goudge's biography, which described her belief that love is stronger than death, enduring beyond the grave.
Well, I didn't really LIKE it; the paranormal aspects put a damper on my enjoyment of an otherwise sweet little highlands-flavored romance. But it had some beautiful and/or amazing lines and phrases, as all of Goudge's writings do...
This book has been a favorite of mine since my late teens. Yes, I'm a hopeless romantic, but the combination of Scotland and time travel/reincarnation was a really good read.
