https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/256936.The_Killings_at_Badger_s_Drift
I’ve been a fan of the British detective series, Midsomer Murders, for almost two decades.
For years I’ve known that Midsomer Murders is based on Caroline Graham’s Inspector Barnaby series.
The Killing at Badger’s Drift is the first book (and first episode) in the Inspector Barnaby series.
Whether it be the Rainbirds or the doctor’s wife, roles that are mere ciphers on the show become fully fleshed out here.Now as a fan of the show, there are some disappointments when reading the books.
However as a fan of Troy, it was slightly disheartening to read.
(Really, though, I don't know how I managed to miss these all these years.)The plot summary: an elderly woman is found dead in her cottage in a lovely-seeming English village, and because her best friend will not back down from her assertion that it was not a natural death Chief Inspector Barnaby and his sidekick Sgt. Troy are sent in to look into it.
The best things about the book were Miss Bellringer and Barnaby and his family.
Where I got the book: my local library #2.Octogenarian Miss Simpson is hunting orchids in the peaceful woods around the village of Badger's Drift when she sees something that deeply shocks her.
The result is an unfolding revelation of the murder, adultery, jealousy, blackmail and--but I can't say what--that you would expect in any idyllic English village depicted in a murder mystery.Oh, it's good stuff.
I'm trying to think of a weakness in Graham's writing but I simply can't find one in this novel.
Now that I've read the book I will have to go watch that episode of Midsomer Murders all over again.I think I'll be reading more Caroline Graham mysteries.
I have never seen, "Midsomer Murders," before, John Nettles, who played DCI Tom Barnaby in the TV series, assures me in the foreward to this edition, that the books have more depth (no surprise there, the book is almost always better than the television version).
When her friend goes to see Barnaby, he agrees to look into it and, before long, he is unearthing secrets, passions and crimes in what appears to be a picture perfect English village.Barnaby is a methodical and thoughtful main character.
I loved the quirky characters and will certainly be reading on in the series.
Kom se sviđa serija, svidjet će mu se i knjige. s tim što knjiga pruža i uvid u sve što se događa u glavama protagonista, što na Tv ne možemo vidjeti. Nisam ni znao da je Barnby takav pasionirani vrtlar.
There are lots of people out there who are big fans of Midsomer Murders, the long-running British television program based on this series.
Not that there's anything wrong with it; it's just that I've never been attracted to murder-in-the-village television dramas.
Had I been a Midsomer Murders fan, I'm pretty sure that I would have enjoyed this book much more, as I would have had an investment in the characters.
Readers should know that while the village setting is suggestive of a "cozy", the novel is much more of a straight police procedural, complete with a couple of gruesome scenes.
I picked up The Killings at Badger's Drift because we're watching Midsomer Murders.
The show and the book are not quite the same.The Chief Inspector Barnaby series are murder mysteries of the police procedural type.
The contrast between the peaceful setting and grisly murders always chills.Badger's Drift was the first book in the series, and the first program in the television series as well.
By opening his investigation, secrets are revealed, lives are ruined, and more people are murdered.The truth comes out.
A murder puts everyone's deepest, darkest secrets on display, there is no privacy from a police inquiry.Barnaby keeps digging.
Having only ever caught glimpses of the television adaptation I have much derided the popular series for its lurid plots, melodramatic action and unlikely characters Thankfully Caroline Graham’s first instalment is a far superior effort and her witty narrative, sharp eye for social observation and nuanced characters make The Killing at Badger’s Drift an entertaining and surprisingly humorous read.Set in 1987, the tranquil village of Badger’s Drift home to just three-hundred citizens proves fertile hunting group for DCI Tom Barnaby of Causton CID when he is harangued by eccentric spinster, Miss Lucy Bellringer, to investigate the supposed murder of her erstwhile friend, Miss Emily Simpson.
Um livro cheio de mistério, suspense, aldeãos que mentem, aldeãos coscuvilheiros, muitas personagens, um investigador competente - uma cabecinha pensadora e.
A amiga velhota desta velhota (confuso?!) desconfia que a morte não foi natural como tudo indica e explica o porquê ao investigador e assim se dá o mote para a investigação começar.Infidelidades aos molhos.
Ao longo do livro vamos tendo várias revelações, umas que se revelam verdade, outras nem por isso.
As muitas personagens são mesmo precisas para criar a confusão.Sendo assim, só posso concluir que, com este livro, nada é o que parece.
It starts out with a friendly competition over orchids between friends. It ends in...death!A fun read, although I did figure it out pretty early due to writer cues (rather than logical puzzle-solving). Good characters; the plot went a lot darker than I expected without being hateful about its setting, which was nice. Clear writing but for a few transitions between characters near the end, but that may have been a formatting/line break issue in my edition. P.D. James lite? A good read.
http://verovsky-meninadospoliciais.bl...
When I mentioned the opening scene to my husband, he immediately said "Oh, I know who did it." Fortunately, he had no intention of spoiling the book for me.For much of the novel, I thought it probably doesn't matter whether you read these in order.
Part of how he was.I still think it probably isn't necessary to read them in order, but I'm glad I started at the beginning.
Or at least I think she does, not having ever lived in an English village.I don't have room in the upcoming challenge for another in the series, and I'm almost disappointed I do not.
Uopće nije loša knjižica. Solidan krimić s hrpicom osumnjičenih. Cijelo vrijeme sam razmatrala tko bi mogao biti ubojica i svakakve sam sheme smislila, al bome na kraju sam se svejedno iznenadila.Dosad nisam gledala Ubojstva u Midsomeru, al svidjeli su mi se Barnaby i Troy pa baš mislim da bih mogla baciti oko.
I really liked reading this one! I also really like watching the episodes, I must have seen at least 50% of them, though admittedly I often fall asleep whilst watching... Which is probably why they keep being entertaining. I've never read any of the books though, and the writing certainly is more colorful and explicit than the tv show. Even though I could remember outline of this case I was still taken in by it and severely shocked about 70% in. The remainder of the book I read in a breathless frenzy.
This is the first novel in the Chief Inspector Barnaby series (which went on to become the TV series Midsomer Murders).
I enjoyed reading about Barnaby's home life, where his wife had every talent her husband could ask for but the ability to cook a decent meal.
The first killing at Badger's Drift is the 80 year old Miss Simpson, beloved former teacher and kindly neighbour, who is searching for an orchid in the forest when she spies a couple frolicking in the bushes, a sight she should never have seen.
A autora descreveu muito bem o cenário da típica aldeia, as suas rotinas, os seus modos antiquados e as cusquices dos aldeões.Opinião completa: http://quandoseabreumlivro.blogspot.p...
Lembrou-me imenso Agatha Christie... fiquei fã da autora!
Our tale opens with a delightful old lady hunting a rare orchid--what could be better?
The story is set in the late 1980s in rural England, and the investigation techniques are charmingly old-school (the police department does not yet have a computer).
Personally, I would have preferred the story to remain more firmly in the cozy camp, as I do love eccentric English villagers and do not much love gore or kinky sex, both of which figure in the plot here (only the gore is explicit on the page).
I'd certainly read more of this author's mysteries, though I wouldn't run out and buy a complete set after reading one book as I recently did with Louise Penny's Gamache series.
Learned Chief Inspector Barnaby and callow Sergeant Troy go to work when importunate, elderly Miss Bellringer insists that her friend, Emily Simpson, did not die of a heart attack as her doctor claimed, but was murdered.
Graham makes the characters humanly believable in her witty and tragic novel, a real winner.My thoughts: I read this book a long time ago and wanted to re-read it because of the 2010 challenge.
I own quite a few of Graham's books, some with Inspector Barnaby as the main character, some not.Perhaps because this is her first book, she doesn't fill it with massive amounts of description.
Rich Westwood recently reviewed this novel (excellently) on his Past Offences blog, and as I read his essay I realized that, though I'd seen approximately seven million episodes of the Midsomer Murders TV series, I'd never in fact read any of the novels that gave rise to the show.
(I can't imagine why Century Hutchinson, the book's original [UK] publisher, didn't put a copyeditor through this text.)Overall, I quite enjoyed the novel, and I may well read more in the series at some stage.=====Now go read Rich's review, which is far more impressive than these scrappy notes.
Un bon roman policier mais malheureusement, je suis un grand fan de la série Barnarby (vue et revue) Connaitre les rouages des crimes enlève un grand intérêt à cette lecture même s'il y a des différencesDe ce fait pas moyen de juger le livre objectivement ...
The opening book of the Inspector Barnaby series featuring Chief Inspector Tom Barnaby, the first episode takes place in a small village setting (I LOVE these) where murder is afoot.
Miss Emily Simpson, an octogenarian, has had an ongoing competition with her friend Lucy Bellringer for years.
It seems there is a particular type of orchid that grows only every so many years, and the two of them vie with each other to find it first, the loser being treated to a formal, high tea.
This year Emily's determined to find it, but she won't be around to fix Lucy's high tea.
And thus the book opens.
If you're a fan of British mystery fiction, do NOT miss this.
It's like an edgy English village mystery.
Like something Agatha Christie might have written the morning after finding out her husband was having an affair and having spent the night drinking only to wake up to an empty house, a hang over and a bitter heart.Only she writes better than Agatha, her detective isn't vain or prissy, the suspects motivations are difficult to determine and the murder(s) can be messy.
On the other hand the solution will still give you a head ache.Considered by some to be among the top hundred mysteries of all time.
I wouldn't go that far but I would recommend it.
Não é habitual eu apreciar mais uma adaptação a TV (Neste caso, uma série de TV) que o livro, mas foi o que aconteceu aqui. Talvez também por eu ter visto muito recentemente o episódio da série baseado neste livro e ainda me lembrar de tudo, não consegui apreciar esta leitura. Os cenários na TV são tão bonitos e os personagens tão adequados que a escrita da autora não me conseguiu entusiasmar e as suas descrições ficam muito aquém do que vejo na TV.
I read this because I had enjoyed the TV series and because I had recently watched Kerry Greenwood's Phryne Fisher books adapted to TV and found that the TV was not as good as the book (but still very enjoyable.So I was pleased to find that the uni dimensional Inspector Barnaby of the TV series was fleshed out and much more real ( and less likable) person in the book. I will probably read a few more of Caroline Graham's books.
A história deste primeiro volume da nova coleção de romances policiais britânicos, da ASA, tem início quando Emily Simpson, aquando do seu passeio pela floresta da aldeia de Badger’s Drift, avista dois dos seus vizinhos em uma cena de sexo… selvagem.Opinião completa: http://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbi...
Rating clarification: 4.5 stars.Thoroughly enjoyable, well written and tightly plotted English mystery full of humour, pathos and memorable characters. Am really looking forward to reading the rest of the series :-).Buddy read with Kim and group read with the English Mystery Club.
serialul a avut la bază acest roman al scriitoarei Caroline Graham care a fost consderată încă de la prima apariție o continuatoare a Agathei Christie în literatura de factură polițistă după cum semnalează '' The Sundey Times'' : '' Caroline Graham pur și simplu cea mai bună scriitoare de romane polițiste de la Agatha Christie încoace''.Acțiunea romanului se petrece într-unul din satele acelea idilice și multiseculare specifice Angliei tradiționale, sate cu denumiri poetice și desuete cum este și cel din roman, Badger' Drifts adică Viziuina bursucului, în care poți avea falsa senzație că nu se întâmplă niciodată nimic notabil.
I love the Midsomer Murders TV series (I've probably seen every episode), so I'm not sure why I've never read any of the books that the series was based on.
The Killings at Badger's Drift (great title!) is a contemporary cosy crime/murder mystery written in a similar style to Agatha Christie.
Only her best friend Lucy Bellringer (a nod to Miss Marple?) is convinced her death was unnatural, and she persuades Detective Chief Inspector Barnaby to investigate - with the help of his sidekick, Detective Sergeant Troy (who inadvertently provides much of the humour).I loved this book and I'm really looking forward to reading the next one in the series.
I'm always surprised by the high ratings given to genre novels which are predictable and badly written, compared with great novels.
It's well written, making it an easy read; it has a satisfyingly complicated plot, interesting characters, and a surprise ending which makes sense, and doesn't leave you feeling cheated.
Inevitably there are personal preferences so some people maybe dissatisfied with one aspect of the book or another- for me, I know we have to have an explanation of the crime at the end, but it did seem to go on a bit - but this isn't serious.
