https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/460858.A_Taste_of_Honey
That Jo's nameless boyfriend (and therefore, to her mother's distress, her baby) is Black, that her kind and caring male friend is (implicitly) gay, and that her absent father's mental disability hangs troublingly over her must all have been highly provocative at the time.I love this funny, painful play and other working-class dramas like those of Willy Russell in the English theatre tradition.
The tradition of radical theatre is still strong, growing and changing, and Delaney, like Littlewood is one of its brilliant pathmakers.You can also watch the utterly wonderful film adaptation.
I just remembered that I'd read this (for a class) while shelving another book with the same title. I admit I don't remember my own reaction to the play terribly well, but what I do remember is that this was the text that made me realise how biased reading can be, because the gay character that to me seemed very out on page (there's a whole plot point about losing his lodgings after a landlord caught him with a man) was completely denialled and missed by some of my classmates.
In this play, Delaney has sought to to speak for marginalised and unrepresented voices – those that are homosexual, teenagers, and single mothers.
However, the play in my view has dated because the play despite its attempt to challenge prejudices still adopts stereotypes; the working class matriarch in Helen, the rootless ideal of black male sexuality in the 'black boy' who impregnates Jo, the 'harmless sissy' in Geoff, and the teenage single parent in Jo. So what is she trying to achieve?
Despite this, I was saddened that the character of Geoffrey conforms to a stereotype of the 'effeminate gay', placed within an acceptable responsible role of parenthood and partnership with Jo. He is desexualised and unconnected to a gay community.
I read this because Wikipedia said Delaney was on the cover of the "Girlfriend in a Coma" single and Morrisey claimed she was a big inspiration for him. I guess I can see how the characters' manners of speech reflect Moz's lyrical style, certainly it does moreso than Wilde, but the topic matter is a bit different. The drama wasn't really there but as a character study and work of realism it's a good first play.
I can’t believe this was first produced in 1958! It’s way ahead of its time: addressing women’s rights to their bodies as well as sexuality and race. Did I mention it’s written by a women? Why don’t we read this play in modern theatre history?
Perhaps this is in keeping with the theme of stagnation and of inheriting the weaknesses of our predecessors (in this play's case, our parents), but it would have been nice to have some character progression during the play.Overall, A Taste of Honey is a play as astute and earnest as it is quick, but that unfortunately struggles to escape the environs of its narrative and context.
Read this play during school for one of the exams that I had to sit.
Jo and Helen were not sympathetic characters and Geof and Peter were equally as bad in their own ways.
The only character I liked was the father of Jo’s baby, who was ironically never given a name.
Act 1 Scene 2 – according to the foreword, the four main parts in this scene were a deliberate attempt to explain Jo’s affection for her boyfriend by emphasising her mother’s negligence.
Geof demonstrated the first sign of intelligence in the entire play by contacting Jo’s mother.
Act 2 Scene 2 – Geof should have grown a backbone in this scene.
I hated most of the characters, the plot was nonsensical (I get it, it's a kitchen sink drama, but it's not for me), and the ending came so full circle that it wasn't even clever, just predictable and underwhelming. The only plus was that it was well-written. The banter between Helen and Jo was realistic and quite endearing at times; that is until I realized it was not supposed to be banter, but actual arguments. *read this for school*
It's not on the paper I mark, but it's always worth knowing all potential texts.I find it difficult to judge plays too much from just a reading - they are, after all, written to be viewed and not read.
It's very dated and of it's time - and while perhaps it provides an interesting socio-historic perspective, the scandals that were possibly shocking to a contemporary audience, are not moderately shocking today.
In fact the only shocking thing to a modern reader would be some of the language used to describe the black and homosexual characters.Overall, not something I'd be interested in reading again - or watching - but not a complete waste of time to read.
This play has fantastic dialogue.
I had to scramble for my pen constantly as I read it to write down great snarky one-liners (i.e.
"The extent of my credulity always depends on the extent of my alcoholic intake").
"A Taste of Honey" was a favorite of that great effeminate Mancunian sad sack, the Moz. He lifted several song lyrics verbatim from the text in question.The play, indeed, reads a little bit like the theatrical version of a Smiths album.
But the dialogue, people.
The dialogue!
These are the elements that make this book a worthwhile read.
2.5 stars.This book is hailed as a theatre great... but nothing happened.I understand the themes and social messages within it, and many of them hold a lot of worth. And the dialogue was quite witty at times, but I can't get over the lack of any REAL plot.
Saw the movie, saw the play and now finally read the script. Oh, and listened a million times to the songs it spawned. I had fun reading this and underlining all the lines that found their way into Morrissey lyrics.
"I'm not sorry and I'm not glad." "I dreamt of you last night, and fell out of bed twice.""Oh well, the dream's gone, but the baby's real enough.""You need someone to love you while you look for someone to love."
Bettie's Books
Klein beetje afleiding van studeren. Voornamelijk gelezen vanwege zgn 'historische waarde/reputatie'.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra - 4 Extra Debut. A pregnant teenage girl and her feckless mother trade insults and repartee in 1950s Salford. Stars Siobhan Finneran.
Yup, 100% Salford here for you. Exactly what I hate the most about my side of town perfectly portrayed in this slim play: women making babies without wanting them with almost every man passing through their life; and then proceeding to make the life of said kids hell on Earth. All while drinking themselves stupid and obviously considering everyone but themselves guilty for their faith. Plus let's not forget the xenophobia just alluded at in the book, in the form then present of the black man, but ever present today against any other nationals but white Salfordians <>
The play portrayed a very unloving relationship between a "half-whore" mother and her daughter. Besides that, there are many other unconventional forms of relationships that Delaney explores within this play. The main theme that seems to run through the play is parenthood and its difficulties in working-class Britain. The play had some shifts of time, but I didn't feel like this was done effectively. Besides that, the ending felt very unsatisfying.
I really enjoyed this read! I was going to give a 3.5 star rating, but steered towards a 4. I just don't see the massive development of the relationship between Jo and Helen (her mother). I couldn't see a big jump in their relationship's nature. Looking forward to studying this play in detail, though!!
If Morrissey and I were best friends, we'd spend our days scouring charity shops for shirts with interesting prints and quoting this play to each other. Since that has yet to come to pass, I enjoyed it plenty on my own and the movie is one of my top faves.
I wanted to read this after Morrissey said that it inspired him to write music. It did not disappoint. The dialogue is fantastic and the characters are hilarious, yet human and believable. The book took me back to a different era and brought back memories.
The only aspect of this play I even slightly enjoyed was when the characters talked to the audience. I didn't enjoy the dialogue at all and the plot line was bland and boring. Although she had controversial topics for the time within the play, I didn't like the way they were handled.
The dream has gone but the baby is real.
Like, not love.
I read it just for the Moz info. Ultimately it was too British for me to enjoy.
I remember reading this for my first year uni module 'Lit in Context'. To be honest, from my memory, it was quite boring. No so interested in literature from this decade.
3.5.
This is a fine play about wretchedness.
A Taste of Honey by Shelagh DelaneyModern, dynamic and very good- 9 out of 10I can still see Rita Tu
