https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25667918-binti
i know nothing!having been gleefully freeloading off the free tor shorts for years now, i absolutely want to support tor in their "buy some novellas, cheapskate"* endeavor, especially since the first one i read - Every Heart a Doorway - was one of the best things i have ever read ever.
16-year-old binti comes from the isolated himba region whose desert community holds fast to its customs and where the emphasis is on family, science, and a connection to the land so deep that no one ever leaves their homeland.
It is a core trope of SF, for heaven's sake.What I don't like is a completely insane turnaround in a plot firmly rooted in terrorism and attempted mass-murder of (view spoiler)[ a whole university after the aliens killed almost everyone on Binti's spacecraft.
(view spoiler)[Oh, we're slapping the wrists of the scientists who lopped off the chief's stinger and exiling them to some other place in this galaxy of worlds.
(view spoiler)[The aliens are high-tech.
I expected darkness to envelop me as I read this, but instead, I was introduced to a world that, as unwelcoming as it may seem, does actually understand human and alien suffering and is open to creating alliances with presumed enemies.
In fact, the author mentions her daughter helping her come up with the plot, and all I can think is, ‘‘How old is she??’’ But look, I do love a world filled with people that are able to put the past behind and accept the help of enemies, so this world is one I want to read more about.
Being the first of her family from a rural area of Earth, itself described as something of a planetary backwater, to go to this school is difficult enough for Binti, but Okorafor then introduces a far more dangerous cultural conflict through which Binti must survive.Told with an intensity found more in the horror or thriller genres, this speculative fiction work blends elements of science fiction and fantasy into a very entertaining whole that is reminiscent of Octavia Butler or Ursula K.
Binti is a curious little novella by Okorafor, an author who has been my radar for bringing winds of Africa into science fiction and fantasy, and it does not disappoint.
“No matter what choice I made, I was never going to have a normal life, really.” Okorafor deftly creates Binti’s character, bringing to mind the old days when I was seventeen and heading off across the country to college.
There’s a galaxy of other beings, unknown alien artifacts, a future-Earth that has technologies unusual to our own, living ships, and then the very fascinating concept of mathematical harmonics.
But, sadly, the promising start quickly disintegrates into a story that blithely speeds along to the conclusion it desires while ignoring character building, logic, and any resemblance to the actual complexity in the interpersonal (interspecies here, I guess?) relationships.I guess I must call this story, despite the imaginative and fresh initial premise, just simplistic and naive.
Because this is how we wish the world would work: forgiving any murder or war and accepting your enemies once a miscommunication of sorts has been cleared (or magically covered with magical mud, if you so wish) and harmoniously living ever after in a wonderfully harmonious universe.
Okorafor has written much better stories but this is sadly lacking.
Nnedi Okorafor's Binti is a beautifully written and engaging science fiction tale which, despite its length, has the feel of an epic.
In the story, Binti leaves her tribe in Namibia to go off-planet to study at the Oomza Uni. Binti's people are obsessed with knowledge; however, they do not travel; they stay on their original homelands on Earth.
Binti, bringing her people's culture with her into the galaxy, will prove to be a notable exception.
Before they make it to Oomza Uni, though, their ship is attacked and her shipmates are murdered by humanity's dread enemy, the Meduse.
With this attack, things become even more interesting.
She got selected for the Oomza University that is on another planet.
She is the first one to be selected from her tribe as well as her city.
On her way to the other planet, their spaceship got attacked by the aliens.
(view spoiler)[How did the folks from another planet managed to steal from the head of aliens if they were so fierce and have super powers.
(hide spoiler)] So yeah, a little back story might have earned that 1 star.
I found it refreshing after finishing the pile of ARCs so any of you folks who are looking forward to read something to shake you up from reading slump, this book might help you.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
The urge was so strong that it was mathematical.” ― Nnedi Okorafor, BintiI can't believe this won a Hugo and a Nebula award !!
Apparently this is supposed to be a science fiction novella, offering a protagonist from an African background who is a genius at mathematics and who leaves her tribe to go to Oomza university on another planet.
Also Binti wasn't some kind of a badass main character since all she did besides chatting with the enemy was talking about her "otjize", making "otjize" , applying "otjize" to her hair and trying to explain it's nature to other people throughout THE WHOLE FUCKING BOOK !!!
14/01/18 - Still love this so much!21/01/17 - I loved this! What an intriguing first installment!
(hide spoiler)]2) Event 2 takes place (view spoiler)[ I end up going and make some cool friends, here are their names.
(hide spoiler)]6) Conflict 2 is resolved by deus ex machina (view spoiler)[Turns out the otjize my people make from oil and clay to cover their skin and hair with just so happens to heal the aliens making us insta-friends.
(hide spoiler)]7) Conflict 3 arises (view spoiler)[Upon arriving at the Uni, we get an audience with the various leaders (me acting as diplomat with my new tentacle hair) and I explain to them that my alien friends slaughtered everyone on the ship so they could get their stinger back.
I don't get the hype. Yes, culturally diverse - I like the main character and her background, but as an actual science fiction work, it's very weak.
Binti is a beautiful Sci-Fi story about a girl who leaves her family and their dreams for her behind, because she has much bigger dreams for herself.   “We prefer to explore the universe by traveling inward, as opposed to outward.”  This novella received quite a bit of hype at the end of last year, and I've been meaning to read it since it released, but after winning a Nebula and a Hugo I knew I couldn't let 2016 go by without reading it. Plus, look at that cover. I mean, it's honestly to die fo
We take for granted the beauty behind the rituals and customs of different cultures, when we really should be celebrating them.
Yet, the juxtaposition is equally as beautiful with the reminder that we are all free to try or to embrace a new culture without feeling shame, nor should we be exiled for turning our backs on the culture we were inherently born into if we were to venture out and try a new custom.Like I said, this book makes a huge statement about acceptance and how we can miscommunicate with others unintentionally.
Leaving home is never easy, and I admired Binti’s courage to face down the new and the unknown, even when she is met with ignorance from other travelers who have never encountered a Himba before and treat her differently—at best, like an oddity; at worst, like a savage.What’s interesting is that Binti’s own experience with the Meduse teaches her something about the way people view the world, revealing how one can become prejudiced when faced with prejudice against themselves.
The theme of the story is about acceptance, of embracing your own identity and being proud of who you are, but also learning to respect others and sympathize with different points of view.If that sounds like a very straightforward message, that’s because it is.
In this future, the Himba tribe of Namibia are an insular minority, looked down upon by the majority Khoush although the Himba have become specialized experts in math and 'harmonizing,' producing "astrolabes" (which seem to be the future's smartphones).
On a related note, although yes, the professors at the Uni did both the right and the sensible thing by acceding to the terrorists' demands, it seems inconceivable that none of them would mention the slaughter of a boatload of their colleagues, some of whom would undoubtedly have been close friends, lovers, family...
Great novela by the author of Who Fears Death, Binti tells the story of a brilliant, brave young girl who risks everything to go to college, including her family, home and even her life.
5) Jellyfish-like, Lovecraftian antagonists.6) An immersive, entertaining story that can be enjoyed over a cup of coffee (or, maybe, two).7) Some really great writing that works well within the soft sci-fi concept (more focused on human experience of sci-fi rather than the sci-fi itself).8) Invigorating descriptions of hair.
This is good hair.9) An allegory for the difficulties of communicating with someone from another culture, the dire consequences of these miscommunications, and the power of language and diplomacy.10) An enjoyable introduction to a projected trilogy of novellas.
An easily digestible alternative to the immense trilogies for which the genre is famous.
FAN FAN FAN FAN FAN FANMe ha encantado Binti, en serioFAN FAN FAN FAN FAN FANQue sí, que el desenlace es facilón e incluso poco creíble pero es que a mi ME DA IGUAL. He disfrutado muchísimo con esta novela corta, era justo lo que necesitaba en este momento, una lectura original, ágil, entretenida y cargadísima de imaginación y buenas ideas por todas partes.Además me he hecho super fan de Okwu, necesito ponerme ya con Binti hogar y voy a hacerlo.
This was one of the most creative books I've read in a while!Very interesting concepts but I wanted more... will definitely pick up the next one when it's out!
It follows our protagonist Binti, a member of the Himba people who are one of multiple cultures that live on Earth.
Although you may not be provided with pages explaining the process of each piece of science or human development contained within the novella’s pages, there is little question that everything fits together seamlessly and has a reason even if there is only a short time to dwell on it.The character of Binti herself is the focus of this story; she provides an anchor for any reader in a world floating around in the unknown.
Following Binti’s journey in Binti was emotional and encapsulating and luckily enough for all of us there are two more books in the series where Binti’s story can continue (and both are longer than the first so that’s a bonus).
This was amazing! I need more. The way that Nnedi constructed this world so beautifully in so few pages. I was hooked right away and can't wait to see what the next part brings
As a novella, it works in that there's a clear beginning, middle and end.
The strongest part of the novel is certainly the beginning, as Binti's cultural heritage and traditions were the aspect of the story I found the most compelling, and the most strongly developed.
The rest of the story lacks the impact and finish I've come to look for in works of fiction that I end up loving.
This is advertised as a Science Fiction novella, but it reads like middle-grade or the lower spectrum of Young Adult.
Like I said, I expected more - but it was okay.
It’s me, not Okorafor. Imagined worlds hold no magic for me.
⌈4.1⌉* *⌈the ceiling function rounds up to the nearest integer⌉ How I wish I had been reading books like Binti growing up instead of  Nancy Drew ! While the latter firmly serves to reinforce all stereotypes known to humanity (blonde = beautiful perfection; brunette = chubby side-kick; non-white = ….. [non-existent]; materialism = rah, rah! etc and so on)- Binti unapologetically forges her own path, seeks her own meaning, explodes structural barriers sustained by history for generations: she is,
This is just the beginning of her story (the first in a new series): an introduction to the Himba and Khoush people, the Meduse (a seemingly hostile, non-human race), as well as Binti’s spaceship travel to and arrival at Oomza Uni. The Himbas are a spiritual tribe, intimately connected to their land/place of origin.
On her journey, Binti forges relationships with both Meduse and with the Khoush people (The Koush are metropolitan dwellers, an affluent race of pale skinned humans that uses the Himbas-everyone needs an astorable!—but does not usually deign to interact or forge relationships with them).
Those of you who know me know how ridiculously hard it is to get a 5-star rating out of me. But this is master-class SF storytelling. Some novellas you read and think, "I wish this had been a novel." Some you read and think, "It's a bloated short story." Binti is quite possibly as close to perfect as it could have been, at its exact length. Full-length review coming.
Binti Ekeopara Zuzu Dambu Kaipka of Namib is from a small tribe on Earth.
They have the ability to use mathematics to create instruments called astrolabes that can read and interact with the energy of the universe.
My tribe is obsessed with innovation and technology, but it is small and private, and, as I said, we don't like to leave Earth.
pg 21Can she leave everything and everyone she's ever known or loved to go to the university?Binti is a science fiction novella with an extraordinarily unique premise and world.
Loved the world building but found the story a bit odd.
All the passengers and crew are killed except the pilot and Binti who manages to lock herself in her room and discovers that she has a mysterious MacGuffin-like device of unknown origin called “edan” which is able to injure and kill a Meduse, and also somehow facilitates communication with them.
Once they are able to communicate she find that she has alone is in a position to save many human lives from the Meduse.A well deserved multi awards winner, Binti is a great novella, intelligent, yet fast-paced, it even has moments of pathos and a heart.
She's on her way to study at Oomza Uni when her ship is attacked by the Meduse, a violent, jellyfish-like race with a vendetta against humanity.Communication is at the heart of the story.
That's part of what makes Binti's story so powerful.The plot itself is relatively straightforward, as Binti tries first to survive the war between humans and Meduse, and then to change that war.
You read for the beautiful characterization, the deep cultural clashes both among Binti's people and between humans and other races, and for enough fascinating ideas to fill several novels.I finished the story wanting more, and will be waiting impatiently for a novel set in this universe.
It is so refreshing to read about aliens that feel truly alien, and to read about humans who have customs and traditions that are largely unfamiliar to the world outside their society. Nnedi Okorafor has created a wonderfully intelligent, resourceful, heartfelt heroine in Binti, and I look forward to following her journey in the rest of this trilogy.
