https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153462.The_Stream_of_Life
”I know that my gaze must be that of a primitive person surrendered completely to the world, primitive like the gods who only allow the broad strokes of good and evil and don’t want to know about good tangled up like hair in evil, evil that is good.” There is an unnamed narrator, an artist who is turning his/her talents away from canvas and paint, and exchanging his/her brush for a pen to try and express himself/herself with words. Now that I finished the book I realize that I have no idea of th
There is an unnamed narrator, an artist who is turning his/her talents away from canvas and paint, and exchanging his/her brush for a pen to try and express himself/herself with words.
Lispector had doubts about this book, this “spineless book” that lacked a plot and each sentence was connected only by the fact that they came from the same brain, thoughts born as neighbors, but sometimes as different as Earth to Venus.
I kept holding the book closer and closer to my eyes as if thoughts were escaping as the words came from the page to my mind.
In this dense jungle of words that thickly wrap around whatever I feel and think and live and transform everything I am into something of mine that nonetheless remains entirely outside me.
Much of what Lispector hinges on is the fragile narrative structure thrown over the piece like a thin blanket made out of a human soul, the idea that the narrator, a painter attempting to create art for the first time with words is writing an intimate letter to a single individual, presumably a lover.
In this short book composed of fragments, Clarice Lispector seeks to create a language to capture the instances that comprise a life.
That living is not only unwinding rough feelings— it’s something more bewitching and gracile, without losing its fine animal vigor for that." Lispector's voyage through words and language, image and song, leads her in the end confronting death.
And to settle for that not as one defeated but in an allegro con brio."Lispector enacts her joy in words, fixing this instant in time, and by doing so making this work a song, an allegro con brio.
Beguiling improvised abstractions about consciousness via short paragraphs about mirrors, flowers, horses, writing, being, painting perfume in the air, beatitude, joy, grace, how cats never laugh, always being born through thought, "is-ness," "it-ness," maybe best described/reduced as Beckettian Brazilian Beat prose-poetry?
Unlike anything I've ever read -- much longer than its 88 pages.
At times sophomoric, juvenile, ridiculous, superficial, zone-out-able, but then suddenly so much more, with perfect phrasing like "a horse with the open wings of a great eagle." But then it goes back to proto-stoner silliness like how "now" is always passing, by the time you say "now" it's no longer now, etc.
I can't sum it up - that would sort of defeat the purpose; maybe my attempt to use words to describe her attempt to use words to speak of that which cannot be spoken about, that secret chord that goes all the way to the divine, was doomed from the beginning.
I don't want to feel the horrible limitations of living only by that which makes sense.I just know that The Stream of Life lights up what, for lack of a better word, I call my soul.
başı sonu olmayan bir monolog, bir doğaçlama yaşam suyu.
ilk bakışta, bildik roman okuma deneyimiyle, anlaşılmaz ve hatta anlamsız görünüyor.
metni derinliğine rağmen yüzeysel okumak, anlamı satırlarda değil satır aralarında bulmak gerekiyor basit bir ifadeyle.
durmadan, takılmadan okudukça, akışa bir süre müdahale etmedikçe anlatı kendi yolunu buluyor.
metin bir kez açıldıktan sonra bir tür yol arkadaşlığı kuruyor okurla.
doğaçlamanın, çağrışımların böyle bir gücü var.
düşünce ya da hisler kelimelerin katı kalıplarından kurtuluyor, cümleler çizilmiş sınırlar olmadığında daha çok anlatıyor, yazı özgürleştikçe renkleniyor, zenginleşiyor.
bu, çok şeydir.
bundan sonra isterseniz tekrar tekrar kitaba döner, isterseniz monologu, doğaçlamayı kendi kelimelerinizle sürdürürsünüz.
Totally thin and plotless and long and tedious and it is the hardest Clarice Lispector book I've read so far but I still l-o-v-e it, especially when she gives me such warm closure at the end.
Água viva.================I know that after you read me it's hard to reproduce my song by ear, it's not possible to sing it without having learned it by heart.
And how can you learn something by heart if it has no story?But you will recall something that also happened in the shadow.
And especially in that primary existence there is a lack of error, and a tone of emotion of someone who could lie but doesn't.
I think I am just not the right reader for Clarice Lispector.
It's my second go at her, and while I can see, intellectually, the point of writing like this, I just fundamentally do not enjoy reading her; fundamentally, it comes down to a virtue slog.
(Come to think of it, this is one of the things I don't care for in quite a bit of actual philosophy, as well.
So the stars are the average of what I feel I should feel and what I actually do feel reading the book.
Não é um lamento, é um louvor poético ao Eu, à Natureza, à Liberdade, à Vida...
Não humanizo bicho porque é ofensa — há que respeitar-lhe a natureza — eu é que me animalizo.""Quero pintar uma rosa.Rosa é a flor feminina que se dá toda e tanto que para ela só resta a alegria de se ter dado.
Eu e a minha liberdade que não sei usar.
Quanto a mim, assumo a minha solidão.
Sou só e tenho que viver uma certa glória íntima que na solidão pode se tornar dor.
Preciso de segredos para viver."A primeira vez que vi um estereograma não o vi.
The prose reminds me of Saul Williams’ poetry, although Saul was born a mere five years before Lispector died in 1977, so any thoughts of reincarnation do not hold in this particular instance.A bricolage of paragraphs longing for understanding on the present moment are placed like Tibetan prayer flags in the work -- there seems to be a thread or current running throughout the pieces.
The book reads more like music or a painting than a novel, in fact.
It is no wonder that it has influenced a great number of Brazilian artists, including musician Cazuza who read it 111 times.
Sorry Clarice, no dice.
I wanted to like it, and I'm not opposed to structureless rhapsody per se, but Leaves of Grass (or even its introverted modernist reflection) this ain't.
For a while, it kind of worked.
Maybe its having inspired zero excitement, interest or emotion in me is part of its magic; maybe it must sneak in unannounced to do its work.
But I tend to doubt it.
Apparently the one book that she herself seriously doubted, this is Clarice Lispector overcooked, undernourished and far less radical/experimental than its proponents would have as believe.
She writes: "I who long to drink water at the source of the spring ---- I who am all of this, must by fate and tragic destiny only know and taste the echoes of me, because I cannot capture the me itself." Where is this life-force present?
This IS is eternal and ever present.She writes: "I was born like this: drawing from my mother's uterus the life that was always eternal." In another place she writes: "I need to feel again the IT of animals.
En esta novela, que no se si debería ser llamada novela como tal, o como prosa poética, o como qué, solo un libro de Clarice, no hay una historia.
Porque sólo así se puede llamar a lo que hace Lispector con las palabras.
Quizás si intento sacar algo de la historia podría ser esto, se trata de una mujer pintora, quien habla a un viejo amor, o quizás sólo habla a quien la lee.
Hay que leer a Lispector, porque sólo ella nos lleva hacia un lugar en donde el tiempo no existe, y todo a nuestro alrededor son palabras en movimiento, emociones latiendo.
If you come to this text with wool socks and a cinnamon array forming the coffee skin, expecting the new ways of looking of poetry, you will shrink from the occasional awkwardnesses.
Best to go fishing with your own hands, you will say.If you see this text with wool socks and a cinnamon matrix forming the coffee skin, hoping that new ways of looking at poetry, you will shrink from occasional awkwardnesses.
Best to go fishing with your own hands, you will say.However, if you swim the text, you'll breathe pure realize, you will intuit the warm colors and cool colors.
Una preciosa carta de amor. O de desamor. Aún no lo sé. Pero es definitiva."¿Qué estoy haciendo al escribirte? Estoy intentando fotografiar el perfume."
Água Viva is a novel of ideas. It is not, however, a novel of ideas like Milan Kundera's  The Unbearable Lightness of Being  that retains the conventions of character and plot. Água Viva is devoid of characters and plot (although some readers may consider the author herself to be a character, and her efforts to "capture the present" to be a plot.) For this reason, I would sooner compare Água Viva to John Berger's  And Our Faces, My Heart, Brief as Photos , Annie Dillard's  The Writing Life , and
. All of which present a different take on the novel of ideas.
Nevertheless every painting is, by its very nature, addressed to such a moment.
The reader's ear must adjust down from the loud life to the subtle, imaginary sounds of the written word.
Can what I painted on this canvas be put into words?
3), she writes about writing about "this instant-now" - an investigation that extends to art and life in all its incarnations.
Parafrasando l’epigrafe, una citazione di Seuphor relativa alla pittura, si può dire che scopo del libro è indagare i misteri della parola, di una scrittura “totalmente libera dalla dipendenza della figura – l’oggetto –, che, come la musica, non illustra nessuna cosa, non racconta una storia e non inaugura un mito.” […] “si accontenta di evocare i regni incomunicabili dello spirito, dove il sogno diventa pensiero, dove il tratto diventa esistenza.” Se non bastasse, Lispector chiarisce sin dalle prime pagine che quella che attende il lettore è una lettura “estrema”: “sto provando a cogliere la quarta dimensione dell’istante-adesso che da quanto è fuggevole già non è più perché si è appena trasformato in un nuovo istante-adesso che neppure lui è più.
despite an illuminating introduction by biographer and series editor benjamin moser, água viva left me desiring a bit more from this slender work.
lispector's prose is as radiant as always, yet without even the flimsiest of narrative structures to support and lend balance to her often-challenging syntactical structure, the writing in água viva has little to cohere to.
água viva, however, is a bit too unmoored to ably showcase much more than the allure of her prose and the depth of her existential imaginings.
This book articulates many intimate perceptions I previously lacked words for, and in other places she states the obvious recklessly or with intense interest, which furthers my attraction to her work.
I won't say that other do not get this book but that I certainly know nothing.
I will like this book in my ignorance then.
People make novels out of words, and "plot-driven" novels try to ignore their own substance or to relegate its importance.
A novel is its words.
And the words here open up into vast and intimate channels of "thought-feeling." A single person in the act of delivering language in the process of discovery follows the narrative of the mind.
Cito perché capita a fagiolo: "Allora ho sognato una cosa che tenterò di riprodurre.
C'era un uomo che imitava un artista del cinema.
L'uomo prendeva la bottiglia di Zerbino e se la portava alla bocca.
Allora tutti prendevano una bottiglia di Zerbino e se lo portavano alla bocca..."Su un giornale che ultimamente va per la maggiore, oggi viene recensito positivamente questo curioso testo di C.
Fin qui niente per cui dubitare, ma azzardo una previsione: "e allora tutti prendevano una bottiglia di Zerbino e se la portavano alla bocca..."io, per dire la mia e per il nulla che vale, dico SUPERCAZZOLA senza vergogna.
Okurken gına gelmişti, bu kitap kısa ama neden bitmiyor diyordum, ara ara güzel sözler, insanın içini sarsan düşünceler akmıyor değildi ama nedense olay örgüsünden tamamen yoksun olan metinler "aforizma" etiketinden sıyrılamadıklarından, açıkçası edebi (zaman ve mekan içerisinde -flu olsa bile- vücuda gelen metinleri kastediyorum) tat almak çok zor böyle metinlerden. En azından bana hitap etmedi.
Isso não é literatura, é bruxaria.
This novella felt just like an interminable, horrible blog post – the way I see it, Lispector is trying way too hard to sound poetic and deep but ends up writing terrible and cringy passages most of the time.See for yourself: “No. It’s not easy.
I accept.I’ll return to the unknown part of myself and when I am born shall speak of “he” or “she.” For now, what sustains me is the “that” that is an "it"."“I’ll tell you something: I don’t know how to paint either better or worse than I do.
One day I’ll paint turtles.
Lispector's translators all bemoan the difficulty of getting her idiosyncratic Portugese into English, and I have to think, from the two novels I've read, that nobody's succeeded, because this (and The Passion) both sound like over-awed teenagers who've just realised they're allowed to use their brains, but don't really have the skills with words needed to, you know, get their brains out into the public!
Lispector was clearly very intelligent; her thought in here is much better than the older existentialist-novel types, and would probably repay close study!
So Lispector probably never stood a chance!
That's kind of what this book is, a meditation on life, death, time and art as a painter attempts to interrogate herself as an artist but now using words for her medium.
When this non-word - between the lines - takes the bait, something has been written.
Once whatever is between the lines is caught, the word can be tossed away in relief." The word "I" is perhaps the most frequently used in the book, yet it is not solipsistic.
"Is this word to you promiscuous?
I would like it not to be, I am not promiscuous.

"It's as if life said the following: and there simply wasn't any following. Only the colon, waiting. We keep this secret in muteness to hide the fact that every instant is fatal. The object-chair interests me. I love objects insofar as they do not love me. But if I don't understand what I write the fault isn't mine. I have to speak because speaking saves. But I have no word to say. What would a person say to himself in the madness of candor? But it would be salvation."
"Beni okuduktan sonra şarkımı kulaktan yeniden üretmenin zor olduğunu biliyorum, onu ezberlemeden söylemek mümkün değil. Hikayesi yoksa bir şeyi nasıl ezberleyebilirsin ki?""Sana yazdığım şey bir "bu". Durmayacak: devam ediyor.Bana bak ve sev beni. Hayır: kendine bak ve sev kendini. Doğru olan bu.Sana yazdığım şey devam ediyor ve ben efsunluyum."
Um pouco como Palomar, de Italo Calvino, esse livro é uma espécie de dissertação filosófica escrita por vias narrativas.
Aqui a narrativa se reduz ao mínimo, a informações jogadas aqui e ali em maiores explicações: uma narradora que fala, que leva uma vida de apartamento, é pintora, tem uma empregada doméstica; e um interlocutor desconhecido.
Há somente o fluxo do pensamento da narradora em busca do âmago da vida.
Nas mãos de um autor menor, uma obra assim seria insuportável.
Nas mãos de Clarice Lispector, cujo pensamento e manejo da linguagem eram da mais alta ordem, é uma obra-prima.
"Gör mig sällskap den som vill: vandringen är lång, den är mödosam men man gör den genom att leva.
Jag förkroppsligar mig i de vällustiga och obegripliga meningar som slingrar sig bortom orden.
Och en tystnad stiger subtilt upp från sammanstötningen mellan meningarna.Skriver är alltså vad man gör när man använder ordet som bete: ord som fiskar vad som inte är ord.
När detta icke-ord - mellan raderna - hugger betet har någonting blivit skrivet.
Har man väl dragit upp >>mellan raderna<< kan man lätt kasta ordet.
Men där upphör analogin: när icke-ordet har svalt betet har det låtit det uppgå i sig själv.
