https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31180.Celestial_Navigation
They can tell you the truth about things; they have always known that there is no one you can depend upon forever and no change in your life, however great, that can keep you from being in the end what you were in the beginning: lost and lonely, sitting on an oilcloth watching the rest of the world do the butterfly stroke.There's a something that you can have because you gave it to someone, a kind of grace or willing warmth.
He wasn't the only one!I don't know how it happened that Mary fell in love with Jeremy.
Tyler loves people, especially those who choose to approach life with their own unique view despite what society tells them.
She is not naive about people, and the eternally unhappy person usually makes an appearance, but it is the strange and wonderful which capture her attention.Celestial Navigation is Tyler's 5th novel, published in 1974 -- long before praise started coming her way.
He is an artist with a studio on the top floor, and although at times he is a teacher to some budding artist, his detached and strange ways usually finds them leaving.In the midst of all the changes comes Mary.
This was brilliant. Tyler's voices are always so beautifully realized. Every character has such a unique point of view and narration. I especially loved the voice of the woman who opened the novel; I could read a whole book about her. Yes, it was an excellent book, but...But it left me gazing at one of the unopened bottles of wine when I finished it.And I finished it before noon. Draw your own conclusions.
Three stars because Tyler is masterful at creating interesting, fully formed characters, but I can't say that I exactly "liked it." I've rarely been so frustrated by characters's actions (or lack of actions in this case.) I've rarely been so relieved to finish a book.
After reading the first section of Anne Tyler’s 1974 novel, I believe her fifth, I was swept away by her writing and remembered why she is one of my favorite novelists.
The book is narrated in part by Miss Vinton one of the lodgers, another character I would have liked to spend more time with, and Mary but primarily we are viewing the world from Jeremy’s perspective and I think whether this book succeeds or not depends on whether you find the character of Jeremy compelling.
Maybe the Genuine Princess was a great disappointment to her husband being so quick to find faults and so forthright about pointing them out.
Almost unbearably sad, a story about two people who need each other and love each other but can't find their way.
A man's desire to be needed, a woman's determination to not be dependent, to not burden him with her need.
We can all learn from this wise and truthful tale about our most primitive selves and the misguided way we screw up our lives.
I felt myself wanting to hold on to my nearest and dearest and say "I need you" - something that seems alien to me as an independent woman.
Why would any man want that?
She's been a prolific author for decades, but the first one of her novel's that's really considered one of her classics is 1982's "Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant", which was her 9th novel.
That makes it so that every single novel starting with her 9th has more ratings on Goodreads than every single one of her first 8 novels.Which is to say that this book, which was published in 1974 and was her 5th novel, is not usually considered one of Anne Tyler's classics.
Sono delineati perfettamente però le loro personalità, le loro fragilità al punto che si riesce ad immedesimarsi in ognuno di loro.
Tanti personaggi (anche quelli secondari) incapaci di relazioni affettive ma saldamente ancorati a legami necessari per la propria esistenza.
Tutti i personaggi sono imprigionati in gabbie di solitudine, intenti ad osservare la vita che scorre vicino ma senza mai riuscire ad avvicinarsi ad essa.Il romanzo è inquietante, ma cattura e coinvolge fino all'ultima pagina
Not my favourite Anne Tyler. I couldn't sympathise with the main character, Jeremy. Found this well-written, with great characterization, as all her novels, but a depressing read.
It was worth reading, we all should know what it is like to be live life as a dysfunctional person or a person with serious life challenges.
It explains why, as an aging senior, so many people one passes, look through you, past you, or over you, it is fear of what is going to happen to them and the don't know how to deal with it.
Maybe there is no ending when living a dysfunctional life.
(Yes, I know we are all dysfunctional at times, you will see what I mean after you read it.)
In fact I would place it as low as it can go, on par with "Patchwork Planet" and "Ladder of Years." There really is no such thing as a bad Anne Tyler novel, but some merely hint at her potential.
Such is the case with "Celestial Navigation." It has some of her hallmarks -- Baltimore location, quirky and methodical characters, characters who are stuck in their ways but have the potential to break out into something richer.
Will Jeremy stretch beyond his comfort zone so he can be with Mary and their expanding brood?"Celestial Navigation" lacks an engrossing protagonist, and it lacks the charming humor that is present in so many of my favorite Tyler novels.
"His life, he thought, was eye-shaped--the tight pinched corners of childhood widening in middle age to encompass Mary and the children, narrowing back now to this single lonely room." I thought the book was very well written but was disappointed in the ending, so it lost a star. A story of the journey (celestial navigation) of an agoraphobic artistic savant, liberated from his solitary life for a time. Took me 4 months to read it because of work and other commitments/distractions. Yet I had to finish it.
Mother and son have lived together in this way for several years - Jeremy quietly creating his vast collection of collages of little people snipped from wrapping paper, and his mother taking responsibility for everything else in their lives.Amanda was never particularly close to their mother herself, but she is surprised that her brother's voice sounds so passive as he speaks about their mother's death.
Amanda truly believes that his strangeness can be overcome - he just needs to take responsibility for himself, and stop living in his own little world.
How they think and dream and yearn and love, often there is all this rich interior life going on, but they can't express their thoughts verbally.
The conversations are sparse and often no action happens for a long time, but there is heaps going on in the interior lives of her people.
Jeremy who is the pivotal character in this book is at odds with the world, he sees things very uniquely.
By the end of the book I felt like I knew these people, that they had inhabited my life and I was sad to finish.
There was tv and phones.)The main character, Jeremy, has a severe case of Asperger's' (or autism) with a healthy side dose of agoraphobia.
I wonder how his character would have coped with the internet.
Of course Jeremy can cope, but does he have a life?
The title comes from a quote when one of the boarders feels that Jeremy is being guided by his own celestial navigation, following a discussion of sailing by the stars.
But Tyler brings a level of nuance and understanding to this flawed individual and presents him as a multi-dimensional human being.Admittedly, Jeremy is not a likeable character (he's selfish, indulgent, cowardly, uncharitable), but in this novel he becomes fully realized.
Readers may be not impressed with Jeremy and the life he's chosen, but you must admire Tyler's ability to bring all aspects of his character to life.After reading Celestial Navigation, my opinion of Jeremy didn't change much, but I did walk away with a deeper appreciation for what makes him tick.
This becomes a confrontation when his mother dies and his sisters want to sell the old homestead.
But Jeremy is able to make a living as an artist, so he stays.
His mother had started a boarding house years ago when her husband left the family.
His character grows and changes to meet challenges.
This book has been a bit difficult each time I've read it as I see things she tries to explain to me in these characters.
But she is not able to explain things in the same way this author can.
So unexpected benefits have arisen.
I love Anne Tyler's writing style and quirky stories and thought I had read all of her novels but I recently found this one at the friends of the library book sale.
He is living his nonconventional life of painting, art students and marketing contest entries when Mary Tell and her daughter become boarders in his home and things change.
I won't give away the story but in typical Tyler style, when dysfunctional character meets dysfunctional character a haunting story evolves.
I often wonder if these stories are inspired by people Tyler knows or has met in her life as the actions of the characters, given their particular psychological abnormality always ring true.
This one broke my heart.
Really depressing but definitely thought provoking
Tragic, inspiring, and at times hilarious, Celestial Navigation is a gripping character-driven novel about the reclusive, introverted Jeremy Pauling and his love for the young, single mother, Mary.This book presents us, in fascinating detail, with the lives of two main charcaters, sometimes through direct first person narration from Mary, other times through the eyes of those closest to the pair, or through a detached, hyper-detailed third person narration for Jeremy.
Her eye for detail presented to us through the corroded lens of Jeremy's fractured mind is fascinating to read.The varying points of view in this novel keep the chapters fresh.
Tyler seems to like writing about the loners or those who don't quite fit in with the rest of society--at least in the few books of hers I've read.
I do not read much literary fiction as a general rule.
Jeremy Pauling is an artist who exists mostly in his own world and who prefers not to leave the few block radius around his house.
For some reason, "Accidental Tourist" popped into my head one day and I decided to try another book by Anne Tyler.
Tyler did a great job of describing other ways of thinking, and I marked many passages.
She also described the way these differences can affect the dynamics of relationships.
The only thing I didn't like was the ending, which left me wondering what happened to various characters.
But that's the way life is, especially for passive Jeremy, who pictured himself "as a statue in a fountain, sitting eternally motionless while people came and threw their hopeful pennies in and left again."
Not my favourite Anne Tyler story in truth. Tyler's strength is in making the ordinary interesting and she does that here. In this work, chapters are attributed to several of the book's characters which is an interesting idea. My difficulty was with the main character, Jeremy. Tyler intends him to be detached from real life and relationships and she achieves that well in his characterisation. I just found him as frustrating as hell.
Wonderful descriptions and a few really stand out sentences worthy of a highlighter. What I love about Anne Tyler is that she seems to articulate thoughts I didn’t even know I had. However, the ending feels quite abrupt. I would never recommend to a friend who’s never read her before. Definitely most appropriate for an established fan.
First read this book in 1975 and loved it. It was the first book I read by her. Wasn't quite as favorable a read this time. It is well written and so Anne Tyler but I guess I've become a little too familiar with her books and characters.
inbetween nice and interesting, then again a bit unnerving all the confusions and a bit odd main character. Not really what I expected. Literally probably not bad, but maybe tried too much in some places. Probably interesting for people who are very interested in art and artists.
A very poignant book with quirky but sad characters.
It was a fine commute read. Anne Tyler creates amazingly three dimensional characters.
Anne Tyler so of course a great read. But sweet and sad.
