https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16044981-fly-away
I don't know where to began...Kristen Hannah is one of my favorite authors, and I've read many of her books (Firefly Lane included) being one of them and I liked most of her books I've read over the years.
It was very depressing, very few high spots throughout the whole book...of course until the end where everything sweetly came together.I did enjoy the part of the story telling of Cloud/Dorothy's background, and what her life was like and why she was such a deadbeat mother to Tully, that was the only part of the book I found a little bit interesting, because in "Firefly Lane", we didn't read anything about Cloud's background.
It seemed like there was a lot of repeating of the story background from "Firefly Lane" for ones who hadn't read that book before.
Firefly Lane is one of my favorite books and I couldn't wait to get my hands on Fly Away, I mean to hear from Tully and Mara and Cloud again.
For the rest of the book we face every obstacle a human being can face.
Ok ok Kristen usually packs her books with drama but give us SOMETHING positive.
Really liked Clouds story which made everything come into perspective and made me hate her so much less.
Still love the way the story spans over 40 years and how we got to see all the events from different point of views.
Please do not read this review unless you've already read Firefly LaneThis book concluded the story of the Firefly Lane Girls, or should I say girl: Tully.
We also come to learn the story of Cloud, Tully's mother.
In Firefly Lane, Kate lost her battle with Inflammatory Breast Cancer and passed away.
The way Kristen Hannah executed the conversations between Kate and Tully was nothing short of beautiful.In my last review, I shared that I was not ready to let go of the Firefly Lane girls, and in this book I found the answers I so desperately wanted and needed.
I hate to even say that because I love Kristin Hannah's books so much, especially Firefly Lane.
Who knew that I would fall in love with her stories and have to read all of her contemporary novels!Anyways, Firefly Lane moved me in a way that few books do.
I have thoroughly enjoyed many other Kristin Hannah books but Firefly Lane remains my favorite and perhaps, my favorite book of all time.
Unfortunately, Fly Away did not move me like Firefly Lane did.I think the first 300 pages were just too much for me to handle.
I generally like Kristin Hannah's books... Fly Away annoyed me & took me forever to read! I felt like I was reading the same paragraphs over & over. This book is a sequel to Firefly Lane. I think Kristin Hannah was wrote this book backwards making sure the readers that didn't read the first book knew everything. It picked up in the last few chapters.
After the first book I had so many questions about Tully and her Mother Cloud.
I was so pleased with the detail and depth that Kristin Hannah used in this book to reveal the True Cloud...a.k.a. Dorothy.
I wondered how Kate's family would continue after her death.
Kristin Hannah did a wonderful job of depicting the true life grit and grief that befalls a family after the death of a loved one.
She shows a realistic example of what can happen to a family and friendship after the death of a matriarch.
And the way this book was written was just one recap after another.
I feel like so much time was wasted rereading each scene from a different perspective.
I feel like the last page where you have Kate's "voice" would have been a better story filler.
Instead of those things being an afterthought, show us the year after Kate's death, and continue on with Johnny finding love again, Margie & Dorothy having a friendship blossom, Marah getting married, Margie passing, the twins going to college...Firefly Lane covered more than 30 years.
I loved the Dorothy story coming to life.
It’s been awhile since I read ‘Firefly Lane ‘a book that stayed with me as an incredibly emotional read.‘Fly Away’ follows on from Kate’s death and the impact it has on her family and best friend Tully.Kate had been Tully’s best friend for 30 years .
Although you can read this book as a standalone I would definitely recommend reading ‘Firefly Lane ‘ first so you get the full experience of reading the wonderful story of best friends forever ‘TullynKate’.
They have each made decisions in the past that put their lives in misguided directions.
As they experience tragedy, they each have the opportunity for redemption.Tully is at a loss after her best friend, Kate, dies.
Marah is Kate's teenage daughter.
With her mother gone, Marah's life starts floundering and she needs someone to love her and give mothering support.
Tully's mother, Dorothy, was never much of a mother to Tully, and regrets her past decisions and now wants to be there for her daughter.
I won a copy of this book in a Goodreads Giveaway.
I purchased an ARC copy of this book on eBay.If I could give this book 6 out of 5 stars, I would.This sequel to FIREFLY LANE exceeds the original story of TullyandKate.
The story begins four years after Kate's death from breast cancer.
Told primarily from Tully's POV, we learn that in the years following her best friend's death, Tully has been in a downward spiral of drugs and alcohol.
Then Tully crashes her car and hovers near death on a coma, where she meets Kate, sort of.When I first read this plot twist, I thought, "oh no, this book is going to be a disappointment." But, a few pages later I was hooked again.
Sometimes there should not be sequels to books.
This was one of them.What did I like about the book?
It finally ended!
Maybe a little that Cloud aka Dorothy had some redemption.The first 300 pages just dragged on and on and on and forever.
Finally, a real story was beginning to take shape.
I was getting so frustrated with the story that I wanted to just quit.
Poor Tully.
Poor, poor Tully.
It took 300 pages to say that?
I've read Sunday cartoons that had more depth.I was so absolutely disappointed with this book and nearly jumped for joy when it was finally finished.I have enjoyed Kristin Hannah's books and will probably read one again, but this one was awful.
Best friends, TullyandKate, meet on a dark night and quickly become closer than sisters, until Kate gets cancer and leaves her best friend, Tully to take care of her family.Fly Away picks up after Kate has passed on, and it seems that everyone has taken a turn for the worse.
Tully can't seem to pick up the pieces either.
A tragic accident ends up tying the broken pieces together.I found myself more interested in the story of Cloud, Tully's forsaken mother than the rest of the stories wound in this book.
Well, I have been so excited to read this book.
I just re-read Firefly Lane to refresh my memory and I cried my eyes out all over again even though I knew the ending.
I have never felt so connected to characters, as I do with Kate, Tully, Marah, and Johnny.
Hannah provides the story through the eyes of Tully, Johnny, Marah, and Dorothy (i.e. Cloud/Tully's mom).
As I read, I swear I could feel each of the characters profound grief.
I am so glad Kate was a part of this story.
In the beginning of this book, you have Kate reaching out to Tully to make amends for whatever caused a 2 year rift in their 3 decade old friendship.
And then totally and unnecessarily destroyed.It was as though Hannah was trying to see how depraved she could make these (initially) beautiful people - how far down she could make them go.In reading other reviews, I see that there was a good ending and that light was brought into their lives, but I couldn't wade through all the sewage to get there.
Just ok for me. Felt the first third of the book just dragged on and on, and there was a lot of repeat dialog when the plot went from past to present, but I struggled through it because I have really enjoyed all of KH's other books.Although this one was a disappointment, I will still look forward to and read future books by this author.
Sometimes when I finish a book i feel so many emotions that I don’t know where to start a review. This is a story of 2 families who struggle at the loss of Kate to cancer: Johnny her husband, Mara, Lucas and Will her children, her parents and Tully, her BFF. Kate was the center of their world and the author artfully tells of their journeys of how each learned to live with their loss. It is a powerful and emotional novel and worth the read.
Kate's BFF Tully...Kate's husband Johnny, Kate's daughter Marah...all pretty much on a road to disaster.But...what I loved about this book...It was totally easy to get involved in this craziness and still yearn for the best for everyone.
Final thoughts...I found this book to be a thoughtful reading experience...one that made me think about how I would handle the death of my mom at the age that Marah was...her feelings for her mom were so disastrous for her.
It was difficult to watch her fail but sometimes there is no other way...Reading this book left me with bittersweet thoughts of life...and sad thoughts about death!
I was beyond excited when I read about this book coming out and bought it right away, which I rarely do now.
Firefly Lane is one of my favorite books and even when I re-read it, I cry at the end.
Although I tried not too, I once again wept at the end of this book (which I swear, I don't do easily!).
Unfortunately, you'll be pretty lost if you don't read Firefly Lane first, but I can't imagine you'll be disappointed by this two-part journey of two friends and the family they created for each other.
Uma vez mais a Kristin Hannah presenteia-nos com uma história maravilhosa.Este é um livro comovente e que retrata o verdadeiro poder do amor, da amizade e do perdão.Adorei estar uma vez mais na companhia de duas personagens tão especiais como a Tully Hart e a Katie Ryan.5*
I did this because I was so overly emotional after I finished reading that I didn’t think I could write appropriately and objectively.
I have time, I can wait a few mins.So, if I thought Firefly Lane was an emotional roller coaster, Fly Away was like one of those rides that shoots you up into the air and drops you, over and over again.This book is very emotionally driven.
I loved the words on the page and now I am going to have to go back and read more books by this wonderful author.You see, what I liked so much about this book is that it was very, very real.
Further, I have not read the book (or books) that precede this one so I'm viewing this title in isolation from others by this author.Our story begins with an ending.
Early on, after getting a feel for the book but not yet knowing exactly where it was going or how it was planning to get there, I formed an idea that I thought would be the "perfect way" to tell this story.
So not only did the book not disappoint, it seemed to read my mind.Like many in the world today, Hannah's characters are plagued with real problems that have their roots decades in the past.
From the moment I started this I knew this was going to be an emotive novel, one could almost say a tear jerker.
It was an emotive read but not quite in the way I was expecting.
I found this novel hard to read for several reasons.
Yes, as the novel goes on we find out there are reasons in her childhood and background for the way she behaves, so while I didn’t like her it did make some of her behaviour understandable.
But at times I felt I wasn’t enjoying the reading experience.
And yes, I did shed a few tears at times.
AND I WANT TO READ THIS BOOK SOOO BAD!
AND I HOPE I WIN :) I CANNOT WAIT!!!!!Didn't win but got it for mothers day 2013!!ok, so i was extremely excited about this book, because i loved the first one so much, but this book, it was so boring, hard to get through, i found my self reading it just so i could get through it faster and get it over with and i hate when that happens, i wanted to love this book so much because the first one was amazing!so, it was just ok in my opinion, the relationships were not exciting this time, the story line was not exciting, it was just ok.
I got this book as I'm dealing with a family member with cancer. I thought this book would be uplifting for those left behind/dealing with the horrible disease. I had to force myself to continue reading the book just so I could see how it ended. This book doesn't pull you into the story. It's a very depressing book and only a scattering of happy moments throughout.
If the characters are good, it can overcome a lot in the way if a shaky plot, though the reverse is not necessarily true.
Tully Hart is recovering from the loss of her best friend, Kate Ryan, four years before.
In some ways, he resents the closeness between "KateandTully" and he makes sure Tully knows this at every opportunity.
Tully has no one as the only person she ever let get close was Kate.
The story of these two best friends was so enhanced by the background of some of their issues and it felt good see how the unknown still had the ability to influence things, even years later.
They met when they were very young--Tully Hart and Kate Mularkey--on Firefly Lane.
And as her loved ones visit her in the hospital, and their stories play out for us from each of their perspectives, we see through flashbacks how time has taken its toll, starting four years before with Kate's death.
And like a guiding spirit, how will Kate's presence from beyond help lead Tully home?Set against the gorgeous backdrop of Bainbridge Island, Snohomish, and the streets of Seattle, the characters shine.
** While I felt confident that I would like Fly Away (because I've enjoyed the other Kristin Hannah novels I've read), I wasn't expecting to be so absurdly touched and so emotionally blown away by this book.
Because Fly Away also touched on so much of Dorothy "Cloud" Hart's POV, it was amazing how my opinion of a minor character in Firefly Lane swiftly changed.
However, it was Kate's words/feelings about one of her twin sons, Lucas, that brought me to tears, and made me give my child a tight hug.
Eine sehr emotionale Fortsetzung.Es war interessant zu sehen, wie sich die verschiedenen Lebensläufe, nach dem bedeutenden Ereignis aus Buch 1, entwickeln.Toll fand ich, dass auch Platz für die tragische Geschichte von Tullys Mutter war. Das Unverständnis aus dem ersten Teil ist fast wie weggeflogen.
Ich wünschte, ich könnte, aber ich kann nicht... Mit Ausnahme von Lucas und Dorothy mochte ich die Charaktere einfach nicht... Am Ende war ich den Tränen sehr nahe, aber das hat dem Buch leider auch nicht weitergeholfen.2,5/52,5-3/5 for the Firefly Lane Series
Kristen Hannah never fails to make me bawl like a baby. I absolutely loved this story. Beautiful writing, wonderful characters, fantastic plot. I just love her books!
