https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34128219-la-belle-sauvage
Malcolm tried to remember the fairy tales he knew. Could you bargain with fairies? Did they keep their promises? It's hard to believe, but I was ten years old when I first read Pullman's His Dark Materials trilogy. Along with Harry Potter, it is one of the standout reads of my childhood and, perhaps, my entire life. So, obviously, when I heard about La Belle Sauvage, I simply had to bury my skepticism and read it.And I think this book digs up the past pretty well. I’ve had mixed feelings about
I’ve had mixed feelings about this trend of revisiting old series and retelling everything from classic fairy tales to Wonder Woman.
Pullman captures the feel of the original trilogy but, at least so far, I don't feel like you need to read His Dark Materials to understand this book (though, why wouldn't you?
This book is clearly called "Volume 1" for a good reason, as it reads like the first section of a full novel, not as a standalone.Here we are taken back in time to when Lyra was a baby.
He achieves an absolute mastery of tone, style and plot in The Golden Compass.
The writing is average, the plot slow and the new characters rather bland and ordinary.
Granted, this is a companion trilogy and, certainly, this was clearly meant to be read with the other trilogy in mind, but it still needs enough strength to stand on its own to an extent.
I never felt like the important characters were really in danger, obviously because we know where they’re going to end up from reading the previous trilogy.
Dear Mr. Pullman, Please never publish this book as I am writing a thesis on His Dark Materials and the addition of information to the canon will probably invalidate all of it.Thanks broP. Arasu
A wonderful way to start off the new year, especially with the cold and the wet everywhere.
I loved the slow pace of the first half, all of the details that brought life to sweet, curious Malcolm's world.
I loved the thrill of the second half: its many surreal and threatening episodes, the rise of Malcolm's rage-dogs, the faerie queen and the witch queen, the bravery, and everything to do with grouchy Alice.
I enjoyed the brief appearances by Lord Asriel and especially Mrs. Coulter.
This was a satisfying and exciting prequel that I look forward to rereading.placeholder from 2014: (view spoiler)[WHAT?!
We delve back in to alternate-world Oxford, miles from armoured bears but surrounded yet again by daemons and the mysterious alethiometers, following a young boy named Malcolm who is stuck in a world where young working-class boys are mostly discouraged from learning beyond their schooling and are fervently taught that religion is the only truth.There is really no great ingenuity here that came previously with His Dark Materials and honestly, that is the only place to start with Philip Pullman.
3.5? I was excited to read more from that world. I have to say the book left me a bit... unsatisfied? I wanted more and I will continue reading this series but it mostly felt like an intro, not a full book.However, it made me want to reread His Dark Materials ASAP!
EDIT 29/05/2017: TITLE TITLE TITLE. IT IS SO LOVELY. AND THERE IS A BLURB TOO!EDIT 15/02/2017: This comes out in October -do you know what that means? It means that Simona is going to re-read all three books of His Dark Materials before then! Yay!
After reading His Dark Materials last year and falling in love with the world and having the story shatter me and embed itself deeply into my soul, I was so excited for this book, I would honestly go to bed smiling sometimes thinking about how awesome this book was going to be.
I'm not even sure what I wanted from this book, I just know that I didn't get it.Okay, so I'm going to start with what I liked, before this turns into a rant review.What I liked:1.
Pullman said somewhere that this book wasn't going to be a prequel or a sequel, but an EQUAL.
A companion trilogy to His Dark Materials series!
I liked it better than His Dark Materials.
The characters were better drawn, the story was more interesting and it really seemed not to be aimed at the same market.
Not really appropriate for children at all.However I enjoyed it very much indeed.
And then there were the daemons and the magical creatures and of course Lyra herself, in this story an eight month old baby, but already aware beyond her age.
Oh and don't forget those poor nuns who seemed to suffer more than they should have.I enjoyed La Belle Sauvage so much and can't wait now for the next book.
Malcolm is a great character, and the adventure he embarks on is exciting and interesting.
There are some great secondary characters as well, particularly Hannah Relf.
I wonder if/hope that they appear in the original series??
I'm sure it's more enjoyable in the context of the larger universe, and it can't really be read as a standalone; it begs to be read as a prequel to the original series.
I guess I need to add another series to my TBR pile.
It's too bad he doesn't narrate the original series, but I hear good things about the audio for that as well.Posted in Mr. Philip's Library
A Canoa SelvagemQuem se deixou encantar por aquele mundo de fantasia inebriante de Lyra Silvertongue, irá certamente apreciar este reencontro nostálgico com os génios, o explorador Lord Asriel, o aletiómetro, a glamorosa-malévola Mrs. Coulter, o misterioso Pó, etc, etc...A acção decorre 10 anos antes da época de “Reinos do Norte” — o primeiro volume da trilogia “Mundos Paralelos” — o que deu azo a alguma confusão, pois houve quem pensasse erradamente tratar-se duma prequela.
I'm not sure how much is nostalgia for His Dark Materials, but I really liked this book. I wish that I could remember more of The Faerie Queene
The flood changed everything. ... extreme weather had its own state of mind ... I'm usually weary of prequels of any kind. It often sounds like a movie company, author or whoever wants to cash in on past successes. In case of Philip Pullman, I was a bit more optimistic - especially after reading His Dark Materials only last month (I had only known the very first book up to that point). Also, Pullman was indeed asked if this was a prequel, to which he gave the perfect answer, calling it an "eque
But that only meant that the mental illness Bonneville must have suffered from was portrayed in a most delightfully unique way (hide spoiler)].Pullman even (view spoiler)[made the canoe herself a character in this book, at least to me, which also explains why I was so dismayed at her destruction in the end - I probably would have been much happier if she had been tied up somewhere underneath Jordan College in the end, but I understand that she had to go as the end of the book marked a new beginning for Malcolm anyway (hide spoiler)].What is once again so remarkable (apart from the wonderful daemons) is Pullman's ability to weave in so many ideas and social/political criticisms into the narrative without it ever getting boring or preachy.
objectively speaking, if you divorce it from HDM, it's probably a 5 star. however, considering how utterly superb HDM is, and considering this a prequel, giving it the same score would imply that i found them to be on a par, or at least nearly so. and i did not. i liked it a lot, but it just wasn't, y'know, His Dark Materials. typically good pullman-esque character building though, and i am very excited to see where the story goes next.
Across the River Thames (which Malcolm navigates often using his beloved canoe, a boat by the name of La Belle Sauvage) is the Godstow Priory where the nuns live.
. .1/10: We open in Oxford, at The Trout Inn, with a pot boy named Malcolm Polstead, and the whisper of a mysterious baby girl, hidden at the local convent, in the care of the nuns...The Trout, Godstow, Oxfordshire2/10: the whisper of a mysterious baby girl, hidden at the local convent, in the care of the nuns...3/10: Malcolm begins work for Dr Relf4/10: Malcolm finds an unexpected visitor at The Trout, a man whose dæmon is a snow leopard
We return into the world of Lyra Belacqua and His Dark Materials with The Book of Dust, a companion triology that begins with La Belle Sauvage, taking place during Lyra's infancy.
Ultimately, though, I still do not like the way Pullman writes youth romantic relationships.
He writes well when discussing an individual child but when he starts talking about young love, whether in this book or in The Amber Spyglass, it doesn't sit right.
But as the next two novels in the trilogy are set post-Lyra's Oxford, I sense that La Belle Sauvage exists primarily as exposition.
For everyone who hasn't yet heard the news and is desperate to dive back into Lyra's Oxford: this trilogy is going to be a thing.Find more of my books on Instagram
I shouldn't of though, because as with everything Phillip Pullman writes I fell in love with these characters and this world.The tone of the novel is much darker, I feel, than His Dark Materials.
I loved seeing Malcolm and Alice's relationship develop, and the numerous strange situations they find themselves in as they try and keep Lyra safe.
I did think the ending was a little abrupt, and left a few doors open as to Malcolm and Alice's fate in the future, but it also left me desperate for the next book.
As such, ‘Belle Sauvage’ is set in the same parallel world(s) of an alternative Oxford, London, England et al, where we find ourselves again in the realm of daemons, alethiometers, witches and of course Dust.The story of ‘Belle Sauvage’ centres on Malcolm and Alice, their relationship, the quest or odyssey that they find themselves on and along with their foundling, the backdrop of a near apocalyptic flood and an extremely dark, evil and unrelenting pursuer – this all feels very biblical and elemental in nature.
Malcolm spends his evenings serving guests at the pub, along with an older girl called Alice, but he also runs errands for the nuns who live in a priory across the river.
With the aid of his trusty canoe, and an unlikely companion, Malcolm will have a major part to play in Lyra's survival.The story is split into two main sections.
But not all religious figures in the book are evil - the nuns that Malcolm befriends are a benevolent and well-intentioned bunch.Phillip Pullman's rich imagination is once again a treasure to behold, but I think the reason La Belle Sauvage works so well lies in the strength of its main character.
No era necesario.Mis padres me regalaron Luces del norte cuando tenía 10 años, en una edición preciosa de El Círculo de Lectores, con una ilustración de portada en la que se podían ver las luces, y una ciudad de otro mundo suspendida en el aire.
Por muchos recelos que tuviese, he de admitir que cuando llevaba unas cien páginas, buena parte de ellos se disiparon, y es que, sin llegar a tener ni de lejos las sensaciones que experimenté con Lyra y Pan al descubrir las Luces del Norte (ni es el mismo libro, ni yo soy ya la misma lectora) el ritmo pausado me envolvió, disfrutaba conociendo poco a poco los inicios del Tribunal Consistorial de Disciplina, el descubrimiento del Polvo, la resistencia, el personaje de Malcolm, sus conversaciones con Hannah, Gerard Bonneville, ver a Lord Asriel y otros viejos conocidos, el convento...
From the moment its existence was announced, there hasn’t been a novel I’ve looked forward to more than La Belle Sauvage, the first volume in The Book of Dust, Philip Pullman’s prequel trilogy to His Dark Materials.
Like most prequels, it is best understood in the context of the stories written before it, but new readers should enjoy it all the same - it is a classically structured chivalric romance, in which a hero devoted to his ideals sets out on an adventure full of wonder and thrills.
La Belle Sauvage is often dark and scary and violent, though still appropriate for (less squeamish) middle grade readers.
The relationship of various characters to one another (barring Lyra and her parents) also took some time to sort out, and I left the book wondering who appeared in the original trilogy and who was entirely new.Despite all of this, it is hard not to be charmed by new lead Malcolm Polstead who bursts on to the scene with precocious intelligence, a moral compass that always points true north, and a bevy of practical skills.
Indeed, before reading this book I heard the sequel, The Secret Commonwealth, would take place 20 years after this book, and follow a young-adult Lyra after the end of the original trilogy.
i looooooved this and can't wait for the next two instalments!!
Reading them as a teen, I remember being so relieved that here was an author who didn't pander to his young audience; who wasn't afraid to show brutality and fear; but also who gave his characters such depth and personality that they'd stay with the reader forever.So, as you can imagine, I dived into this book with huge excitement, but also trepidation.
I personally wouldn't want my children reading this until they were quite a bit older; not because of the swearing so much, but the darker themes, which are genuinely quite freaky.
Wonderful!
It feels simpler than Northern Lights, but that may be because we are already used to this alternative Oxford.
There are a few new elements of fantasy that I hope will come into play in the sequel.
Happily the sequel is already written and should be published later this year.
Pullman said in an interview that this was neither a prequel or a sequel, but an equel.
But it read like a prequel to me.
I read this with whispersync and the audio was absolutely excellent- especially the hyena who was particularly insane sounding!
If you liked His Dark Materials, this will be right up your Street.
Have High hopes, hopefully has Lyra AND Will.
I loved the series both times through, and so I was very excited to hear that this book was going to be set before the HDM series and follow the young childhood of Lyra and the guardians who have protected her...In this story we're following a young boy called Malcolm who is the main protagonist.
The story starts when three men turn up at the pub where Malcolm works and which his family run.
I do think it felt quite simple at times, and I wanted a few more surprises earlier on, but I enjoyed it a lot and I will certainly keep reading the series.
What is this?! More Philip Pullman? More Northern Lights? More Lyra? YES!Pullman, just take all my money and gimme the book. Write fast. Give me an advance copy. Please, please feature Will too. And if Lyra falls in love with someone else, someone is going to get MURDERED.XXX, the Book Queen
