https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109510.The_Negotiator
A US oil Barron who talks to God and gets personal responses has gathered a group of oil men and industrialists, all who stand to loose big money if the treaty goes through, in a plot to get the US President out of office.When the President’s son is kidnapped in England, the White House contacts a retired American who had great success in negotiating hostage releases.
Going by the sole name of Quinn, this negotiator reluctantly agrees to help with the recovery, but only if is allowed to do it his way.
Awesome is the word for this book.
This is a book from a person with high IQ, likely to be over 120.
Here are my reasons: (1)The story unfolds within a period of one year with a large number of charecters playing their role.
Frederick Forsyth has shown an unparelleled skill in crafting their roles carefully and the timing for bringing them into the story.
(2) His understanding of US, Europe and Middle East is so great that places and cultures fit very well into the story line.
Great Work.
Read it for Quinn the main protagonist. This novel is spine chilling with twists and turns, that will make you lose your way deep inside the novel. When you come out of it, you ll feel like the one who built the maze. Hats off to "the master story teller".
https://30dediferencia.com/2016/07/31...Leer un libro de Frederick Forsyth es enfrentarte a una lectura con acción, con muchísimo ritmo, con unos personajes algo estereotipados, sin demasiada profundidad, pero ¿buscamos eso o entretenimiento sin más?Una historia en la que se mezclan personajes reales (Margaret Thatcher o Mijail Gorbachov), supongo que con la idea de hacer más creíble la historia, con un presidente de Estados Unidos ficticio y que trata temas muy actuales en la época en la que fue escrito el libro, como por ejemplo la Perestroika.
Čiže aj geopolitická lama ako ja mohla vďaka tomu mať z tejto knihy maximum :)Zaujalo ma, že:- už koncom rokov 1980-tych existovala hlasová databáza.
(Ale tá asi existovala od vynálezu magnetofónu.)- mladý Američan Simon v jednej scéne na Oxforde preberal so svojím profesorom husitov.- Hizbaláh (pred transformáciou na politickú stranu) mal sídlo v Iráne.
Pokiaľ viem, tak Československo nemalo vlastných teroristov, len poskytovalo zbrane a údajne aj výcvik.Druhá kniha v poslednej dobe, v ktorej sa (okrajovo) vyskytli európski žoldnieri z de-kolonizačných afrických vojen (po druhej svetovej) - tou prvou bola wallanderovská Pátá žena.
Ale už som spomínala, že som v tomto lama :)Goodreads výzva 2018:48.
dočítaná kniha
Just finished reading "The Negotiator" by Frederick Forsyth, an international espionage thriller involving more than a dozen countries and a plot that keeps you riveted to the book. Brilliant.
I pulled this one from my book store because I was looking for a Cold War era thriller and have not yet read much from Mr Forsyth.
Of course the author could no more see the incredible events of 1989 (the Wall coming down, the desolution of the Soviet Union, etc.) than the rest of us.I was a little worried as I read the first several chapters as the author spends a lot of time building the background for the story.
We get a lot of back story on numerous characters, including high ranking politicians in both countries as well as businessmen, Senators, etc.
Quinn is much more than a negotiator: he's also a highly trained and experienced commando, typical of Forsyth's central characters.
As usual, Forsyth introduces a large cast of characters, whose lives intersect in complex ways.One minor quibble: Forsyth's research, usually impeccable, is a bit suspect in his depiction of winter in the hill country of Vermont as extremely frigid, almost od arctic proportions; setting that episode in North Dakota would have made more sense.
But in most respects this is a typical Forsyth adventure, complete with incompetent FBI agents, scoundrelly politicians, evil, sadistic villains and KGB operatives who can work both sides of the street when it suits their purposes.Not up to Forsyth's best such as The Devil's Alternative etc.
The first two chapters of The Negotiator were very slow and uninteresting and I feared that this would be a tedious read.
The plot contains several sub-plots (all of which are satisfactorily wrapped up in the conclusion), a number of interesting characters (notably the protagonist, Quinn), a number of neat settings (Vermont, Washington D.C., Corsica, Germany, the Netherlands, France, Russia, Texas, and others, all of which are described in vivid detail), and dialogue which was superbly crafted.
This novel is far above most books in the thriller genre because of its intelligent and gripping narrative.
Saya mulai menyukai pengarang ini, segala detail yang terkait dengan hubungan, intrik, maupun konspirasi internasional, teknik negosiasi, teknik spionase dijelaskan oleh Forsyth di buku ini. Beberapa orang menganggap novel-novel yang dibuatnya merupakan "investigative journalism in fictional guise", mengambil hal-hal yang nyata terjadi, pernah terjadi, atau bisa saja terjadi yang diblurkan dengan cerita fiksi dan gabungan antara karakter nyata dan fiksi.Sebuah novel yang sangat informatif dari mantan agen MI6 ini, tapi saya rasa novel ini bukanlah novel terbaiknya.
The set up was slow, dont know whether its the book or just me. The first 50+ pages took me at least 5-6 efforts to go through. Then after the kidnapping and introduction of the negotiator it was fascinating. Spend 2 sleepless nights, just couldn't put it down! But the third act and finish was kind of disappointing, too cheesy. The resolution lacked punch, almost lame, feels like a western. Overall I would recommend it only to a patient reader. Good, but not great as it promised to be.
The book was excellent, a typical Frederick Forsyth masterpiece.... It gave me new insights into the oil scenario of the world, the vanity and selfishness of American companies in and about kidnapping in high profile cases..... Also how the inner functions of the American and British bodies like the COBRA work..In all an awesome book, a fun read, and recommended to all ...keep reading :)
Superb.... awesome.... what else can I say.... What a suspence.... what a narration..... At the beginning it looks like a boring novel but after some 20 pages the momentum gains and after that, whenever I found some free time available, I read it.
كتاب از جندين موضوع مختلف كه كمك كم در طي داستان همگرا ميشوند تشكيل شده است و همچون ساير آثار فردريك فورسايت، اوقات بسيار لذتبخشي را در طي مطالعه آن گذراندم.ترجمه ي كتاب هم خيلي روان و خوب بود.
Very intelligent book. Highly enjoyable.
Una novela llena de acción e intriga con giros bruscos y resultados inesperados que mantienen al lector al borde de la silla desde el principio. Lo usual del autor.
Buen libro, los dos primeros capítulos son un poco pesados y aburridos, pero sin duda es una introducción necesaria para aportar la intriga hasta el final de la historia.
Clear 5 for Frederick Forsyth... I like his books, the reason being he writes fiction.The way he moves you along with the story is wonderful.
I did not expect to enjoy this tightly woven novel but I could hardly wait to turn the page.
Haven't read a bad Forsyth book yet. You'll love this one!
Due to world shortage of oil and the due consequences of the Nantucket treaty, causes few Americans to prepare a plan to force the President of the United States out of office in a way that would completely destroy him emotionally and psychologically.
A hostage is taken and the world's best negotiator is brought in to discuss its release, Quinn.
With the events that takes place puts the life of the negotiator Quinn in danger.
He uses all his experience to find the men behind this kidnapping and the events that takes place afterwards.
Also the way all these characters play their roles is very well thought out and are very well placed and don't over do their parts.
Frequently wooden, occasionally terrible, prose; rather too much tell-not-show; an excess of cardboard characters; a big fat cliche involving a pretty FBI agent who wins the hero's heart; the road map of Europe described in excessive detail...
this book is full of faults.BUT!
It's a cracking story!
Forsyth's dialogue is crisp and on point, the way people actually talk.
The twists keep you turning the pages until way past your bedtime.
The research and detail that sometimes bog the book down also give it heft and substance, and you feel as if you've learned something from reading it.
I have been a dedicated follower of Forsyth novels.
I love the way he spins the plot, slowly closing the noose around the charachters and then striking brutally at the climax.While this book contains all of the above following, it was entertaining and disappointing at the same time.
The plot revolves around a kidnapping and the negotiation that takes place next.
He makes too many rookie mistakes a Green Beret never would.Nevertheless, though a long read, with too many details, I liked the book and recommend it to fans of the mystery genre.
I almost abandoned this book due to a very long set-up & introduction to a large cast of characters.
It took nearly 100 pages but finally the action kicked in and off I went first to a suspense building hostage negotiation & then a wild ride around Europe after some bad guys.
The impetus for the high profile kidnapping and secondary story about trying to bring down the Saudi régime to take control of the oil fields was quite a complicated plan that was hardly believable (I hope!)....set that aside and the kidnapping and then manhunt kept me riveted waiting for the next peel of the onion layer.
Good read!
CT review October 2018Excellent as usual with Mr F. What is possibly one of the most impressive aspects of his story-telling genius is the accuracy of the details of the places in which the tale plays out.Also, despite obviously being a work of fiction, it sounds like a totally credible sequence of events with the main characters well “constituted”.The only downside is that if you read it at night in bed, you have a hard time turning in... Enjoy!
You have to be very patient to read the thrillers produced by Frederick Forsyth. The negotiator is one of them and is one the best thrillers I have come upon. It has that pace of crime fighting which will engage you to read till the end. Numerous twists and turns have been included while the story proceeds to the end.
3.5 stars. Decent Cold War intelligence novel: a good easy read, but the ending missed a climax and didn't tie all the different story lines together as much, while they were carefully built-up. Characters were a bit stereotypical, but not in an annoying way. Good novel to take your mind off of things in the holidays
This book took a little while for me to get into it.......I almost gave up! But it's Frederick Forsyth!! so I persevered and was very happy I did. Very interesting story with some twists and a clever plot.
Oof, this book!Way ahead of its time. Typical presidential hostage crisis meets a McClane types meets oil lobbyists and the height of the 80s oil industry backdealing. I have had enough material from this book to write an IB extended essay (~4k words) out of it. Absolute must read!
