https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12219703-king-arthur-and-the-knights-of-the-round-table
The fascinating thing about this text is that it reads like the source material for numerous male orphan heroes, including Harry Potter, Luke Skywalker and Superman.
A child fated for greatness who, with little to no training, rises on inborn skills rises to make the world a better place.
A boy king who is qualified by fate to rule an island nation.
Like many oral fables which were eventually written down, this volume is a series of loosely joined stories--sketches, more accurately--which can become repetitive and sometimes confusing where superhuman characters achieve incredible feats.
A lot of people seemed to make a big deal out of King Arthur and the Round Table, and so I expected a little more.
King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table are legendary figures from England's folklore.
This book is basically a collection of tales that follow different knights from Arthur's Round Table.
If you enjoy reading about medieval times and like reading about knights, then this book would be perfect for you.As a side note, I thought King Arthur was the greatest man ever in these stories, but it turns out that Sir Lancelot is even bigger than Arthur.
The stories are very repetitive in the beginning.
Ride out, kill some knights, rescue trapped maidens, joust.
It gets more dynamic towards the end with Lancelot (thank God).So the plot was mostly boring, but what bothered me was the inconsistencies.
I can't tell if this was one narrative or if the author weaved several stories from different sources.
Important characters/antagonists came in once and never seen again.
Excalibur seemed important but was never mentioned again until the last few pages.
Noble Knights doing wretched and vile things.
Merlin disappears.I was disappointed by the Knights.
The Knights were often killing each other, or betraying each other.
Gets lifted to heaven.
I have enjoyed reading "King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table" very much. The stories in the book are so vivid in detail. The text was easy to read once I adjusted to reading in old-English, which wasn't that hard for me due to reading a lot of Shakespeare & the King James Bible. I love the stories, characters, & language used though out the book!
Loved the language, the characters. Excellent intro explaining the history behind the book. The knights spent all their time jousting, fighting and killing each other. What a strange time in history. Most of the time they didn't know why they were even fighting each other..... But it was quite romantic as well.
I found it quite entertaining that knights should immediately joust when they see each other to the point that quite a few of them fought knights they didn't want to before finding out they were actually friends. I would have given it 5 stars except for the unsatisfactory end of Merlin's story.
It was fun to start reading these King Arthur stories to accompany my first trip to England and Wales - creating a stage/setting for visiting a number of castles and learning about those ages. But it felt more like a chore to finish the book after returning home.
I think this may have been the book that introduced me to King Arthur that I read in High School. My family always really loved the Camelot legends and this was a fantastic read that helped give back information.
This book is absolutely fantastic and it also goes into depth about all of the knights and the king. It is very informative people should read this.
Interesting. I think this is the edition I read. Date read is approximate.
This is not very insteresting, for me. Becausr I read in English and I usually read in Spanish so its very difficult to me
