https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26417.Anti_Semite_and_Jew
A few years ago I met a guy at a party and we hit it off while talking about Judaism. Anyway, we went on a date and I brought this book for him to read. He took it and I never saw him again. Moral of the story: Don't give beloved books to people on a first date. Especially if they wear a giant gaudy gold chains and have bad portait tattoos on their forearms. You know who you are.
Change 'Jew' to 'dark-skinned other' and a lot of the book starts to sound like an excellent analysis of the psychology behind the Tea Baggers & the Fox 'News' counter-reality bubble.Take for example the following passage (written, recall, in 1946):"Never believe that anti-Semites are completely unaware of the absurdity of their replies.
Actually, the book would be of interest to intellectual historians, political theorists, or philosophy students for that tertiary reason alone: it marks one of his first attempts to reconcile existentialism and Marxism with regard to a practical question.I was planning on reading and then tossing this old, yellowed paperback I picked up 20 years ago for 50¢.
The existence of the Jew merely permits the anti-Semite to stifle his anxieties at their inception by persuading himself that his place in the world has been marked out in advance, that it awaits him, and that tradition gives him the right to occupy it.
An anti-Semitic mob will consider it has done enough when it has massacred some Jews and burned a few synagogues.
The Jew no doubt sets a proper value on the sympathy shown him, but it cannot prevent his seeing anti-Semitism as a permanent structure of the community in which he lives.
Jews are, by definition for Sartre, those who are hated by anti-Semites.The anti-Semite is the primary villain in Sartre’s drama, but the secondary villain is the democrat--not the American political party, of course, but the believer in democracy.
As an existentialist, he sees Jewishnes as a quality enacted between the anti-Semite and the Jew. But as a Marxist, he sees the Jewish people as the product of historical forces and circumstances that have been placed in a certain social space as a result of that history.
Для антисемита ум, интеллигентность — признаки еврея, и он может совершенно спокойно презирать их наравне со всеми прочими еврейскими достоинствами: подобными эрзацами евреи пользуются для того, чтобы заменить ту спокойную посредственность, которой им вечно не хватает.Спросите одного из этих молодых людей, невозмутимо нарушающих закон и собирающихся в стаи, чтобы где-нибудь на пустынной улице избить еврея, — молодой человек вам ответит, что хочет сильной власти (которая избавила бы его от собственных мыслей и непосильной ответственности за них), а республика для него — власть слабая; таким образом, он нарушает закон из любви к подчинению.
Антисемит — это человек, который хочет быть непроницаемой скалой, неистовым потоком, испепеляющей молнией, всем чем угодно — только не человеком.По сути, это почти весь диагноз для той стороны, что хочет еврея уничтожить, другая сторона(Демократ) хочет его ассимилировать.У еврея, впрочем, есть друг, а именно — демократ, но защитник из него плохой.
Nothing of the anti-Semite either in his subtle form as a snob, or in his crude form as a gangster, escapes Sartre's sharp eye, and the whole problem of the Jew's relationship to the Gentile is examined in a concrete and living way, rather than in terms of sociological abstractions.Opening: If a man attributes all or part of his own misfortunes andthose of his country to the presence of Jewish elementsin the community, if he proposes to remedy this state ofaffairs by depriving the Jews of certain of their rights, bykeeping them out of certain economic and social activities,by expelling them from the country, by exterminating all ofthem, we say that he has anti‐Semitic opinions.This word opinion makes us stop and think.
Question any one of those turbulent young men who placidly break the law and band together to beat up a Jew in a deserted street: He will tell you that he wants a strong authority to take from him the crushing responsibility of thinking for himself.
To be sure, he says they are “exceptional Jews,” insists that “these aren’t like the rest…” Such protestations of friendship are not sincere, for anti-Semites do not envisage, even in their statements, sparing the “good Jews,” and, while they recognize some virtues in those whom they know, they will not admit that their interlocutors may have been able to meet others equally virtuous.
A-mazing! His arguments are quite applicable to other minority issues. While I was reading it I kept drawing correlations to the homosexual community.
And, if taken as true along its broad contours, it is also possessed of explanatory power for phenomena beyond anti-Semitism.Three of Sartre's points rang especially true: i.) Resentment plays an active role in prejudice; the moral shortfalls of the bigot, or even circumstances beyond the control of anyone, are blamed on the objects of prejudice.
For example, the snobishness of the anti-Semite insists the Jew, no matter how long their family has lived in France, and no matter what sacrifices they might make on behalf of their country; only one of "good blood" can be a "true" Frenchman, and this quality can never be lost; therefore, Frenchness is essential and metaphysical.
Exceptional.
Hiding from his own lack through the scapegoating mechanism issued by the essential "Evil" "Jewishness" that he projects into the Other.
The anti-semite is in this way the inventor of the concept of "the Jew" as the opprobrium and pejorative that it became, but not only that, as the "idea" of the Jew as something innate and not lived in full responsibility and decision.
The anti-semite is fueled by the veil of the crowd, hidden from the responsibility that would come along with good faith; a good faith found in reality often in the Jewish people.
Yes, as a philosopher he is pointing (at least trying) out the ideologies behind the anti-semite and the Jew. However, besides the few good points he does make, and back to the comment about this being earlier Sartre, what we have here is a philosophical mess that comes from his early Existentialism which is itself a misunderstanding of Heidegger's Being and Time (Sein und Zeit).
In part 3 of the book, which itself is 82 pages long, then one notices Sartre attempting to make the anti-semite and the Jew into a Hegelian Dialectic.
Although Sartre clearly saw himself as an ally of Jews, his portraits of the authentic and inauthetic Jew have drawn considerable and legitimate criticism from Jewish intellectuals and others since the publication of this work (reportedly, much to Sartre's surprise).The portraits of the antisemite and the liberal democrat, while not flawless, are clearly the best sections in the book.
As Sartre demonstrates in the conclusion of the book, the failures of the antisemite and the liberal democrat have terrible implications for all of us, Jew and non-Jew alike, because our very freedom depends on the freedom of all.
Wonderful. Sartre was such a great influence on Fanon. You can feel the passion and tempo of Black Skin, White Masks in Sartre's 1944 essay. Fanon directly borrows the framework, the antisemitic makes the Jew, the question of repressed sexual desire and Sartre's first person style in his own analysis of black lived experience and racism. The necessity of mutual recognition, to free the Jew, to liberate equally the antisemite/racist resounds powerfully in Sartre as it does in Fanon. It all started here.
Despite being anti-Semitic himself via several comments made, Sartre's attempt to "out" the ridiculous mediocrity of anti-Semites in France and how disgusting and "person-less" they are, is an easy read with some really wonderful passages.
I would also argue that the anti-Semitism discussed in the book is similar to the sentiments still present in the US today—something that should concern everyone.(view spoiler)[Sartre breaks down thinking into a handful of characters: the anti-Semite, the democrat (i.e., egalitarians), and the Jew (divided as the “authentic” and “inauthentic”).
The next chapter covers the democrat who is a well-meaning but impotent ally of the Jew. This is the person who wishes to be reasonable but is also incapable of fully understanding the anti-Semite.
Indeed, Sartre himself comes off looking like the supreme anti-Semite, not just holding but airing his childishly simplistic views of the Jew and maintaining himself as their supreme benefactor.
Weak, weak, weak, is all that comes to mind: that is, a weak argument, a weak veil for his own anti-Semitism, and a weak mind.
a non-factual account of the underlying logic of anti-Semitism and the Jewish identity. has some biting remarks for liberal democrats abt the relatively effete defense of Jews they permit themselves to put up.on a more personal note, Sartre's account of the Jew requires little justification b/c it is immediately recognizable and applicable to my own experience as an Asian American. Sartre's illustration of the Jew being forced constantly to self-reflect is incredible. he put on paper how i have lived.
Sartre answers who created the Jew and who created the Anti-Semite. At the end, a direction for what France can do to end Anti-Semitism. Of particular interest to me what time spend explaining the Bad Faith of inauthentic. A quick read that will also challenge our modern day prejudices.
Nothing has changed. You could substitute "jew" for "Muslim" of "black" the racist narrative is exactly the same. This book is sadly still very current.
First and last part are great. Middle is long and... well it was written a long time ago...
Not two stars because it did make me think, but not four stars because many of the thoughts were "no way, brah."
ترجمة ودراسة ممتازة ل حاتم الجوهري. 177 صفحة
Marred somewhat in its conclusions by Sartre's Marxism, but the detailed observations he makes about the character of both antisemites and their opponents are still hugely timely and relevant.
ясно, що більшість сартрових текстів буде вічно актуальна, але нащо ж так сильно?у тих місцях, де йшлося про "покажіть ваших єврейських поетів, художників і вчених" чи про те, що навіть на тіло своє єврей змушений весь час дивитися збоку, наче воно йому не належить, мені аж незручно ставало від типовості інструментарію.
4 characters, one play, good for getting your head around the idea of existence preceding essence, interesting on the discussion of the authoritarian personality, Sartre offers a quasi-Marxist interpretation of that.
the whole discussion of the predicament of the Jew is rewarding although neither is it historically or socially particularly well informded.
Sartre engages in a bunch of plausible speculations, which are grounded in very little fact beyond Sartre's personal observation.the discussion of the position of the democrat is informative in terms of modern cosmpolitan debates, the denial of a right to a national rather than civi culture.
Favorite passage from the book: "If we recall that we must always consent to anger before it can manifest itself and that, as is indicated so accurately by the French Idiom, we 'put ourself' into anger, we shall have to agree that the anti-Semite has chosen to live on the plane of passion.
It is not unusual for people to elect to live a life of passion rather than one of reason.
But ordinarily they love the objects of passion: women, glory, power, money."

The book is about the study of the Jews of France especially before, during and after the Second World War. I typically find Sartre quite hard to read but this one was very easily understandable.
It was written in around the 40s but the interesting point for me was that you could quite easily replace every instance of Jew in the book with Muslim and get an exegesis of the hate Muslims feel in some parts of the world today.
I only recently found out that Sartre was only 5 feet tall.
As much as I agree with the ultimate conclusions that Sartre makes, it's hard to read this without it being evident that he is a product of his time. He is not careful with what he says, which, regarding the subject, was of course controversial in the 1940s. However, delving into the persona of a post-war French Intellectual was what made this read so fulfilling. I thoroughly believe that my comprehension of French has improved, and despite heavy content at times, it was an easy-going read. How he did it, je ne sais pas.
Provocative writing from Sartre, a strange book that tries to address some obviously deep issues and feels like it is written from its time. Whilst Sartre identifies some intriguing paths through history, and makes some good insights into the patterns that underlie prejudice, it does also feel that Sartre's own generalisations still owe something more to us. Throughout the book it feels like there are a whole host of shadows haunting the backdrop and whilst Sartre succeeds in bringing some to the foreground it feels like his own shadows add to those that are left unattended.
