https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/188087.The_Garden_Party_and_Other_Stories
But it’s worth remembering that had Woolf died the same year as Mansfield she would only have written her first three books (The Voyage Out, Night and Day and Jacob’s Room) and consequently almost certainly would not now be known to us as one of the great moderns.
The best stories in this collection are more innovative and fresh and lively than anything Woolf had written at this time.
She knew she was going to die while writing many of these stories and this is evident in the wonder the natural world has for her ( easy to see why her and Lawrence got on so well – both take the same kind of delight in the natural world.
The writing is so convincing, it's almost like an invasion of privacy, you feel so close to the heart of the characters actions and words, that they could suddenly turn to the reader at any given moment and whisper "please, give me some space".Some of the later stories barely last fifteen pages, but even then, just within this short period of time, she manages to connect easily with her audience, as Mansfield strove for absolute precision and distillation, writing in a letter that, ideally, ‘there mustn’t be one single word out of place, or one word that can be taken out’.

It is always a joyful occasion for me to meet an author whose words and phrases I cherish and reflect on in my mind.
I’m truly amazed at her imagination to capture every little moments in life,and to turn the unimaginable into the tangible through her sensitive and sometimes curious eyes.Fifteen short stories contained here are only an extension of mundane,everyday life,but it shows us a good indication of how colorful,passionate,and tragic our life can become under a great writer.I highly recommend this to every one who likes reading between the lines,and intricate nuances and charcters rather than plots.
714. The Garden Party, Katherine MansfieldThe Garden Party, is a 1922 short story by Katherine Mansfield. The wealthy Sheridan family prepares to host a garden party. Laura is charged with instructing the workers on the placement of the marquee. Her haughty air quickly disintegrates into an intimidated admiration for the workingmen, with whom she feels a personal connection. Laura's mother, Mrs. Sheridan, has ordered masses of lilies, to both their delight. Laura's sister Jose tests the piano, a
When the evening comes, Mrs. Sheridan tells Laura to bring a basket full of leftovers to the Scotts' house to expose her to the world beyond their estate.
Laura is led into the poor neighbors' house by Mrs. Scott's sister, sees the pitiable figure of the widow, and is led to the late husband's corpse.
سپیده‌ دمانِ روزی‌ ست که قرار است در عصرگاه همانروز گاردن‌ پارتی در خانه برگزار شود.
برای همین معتقد است مهمانی برگزار نشود، اما مادر و خواهرانش، عقیده‌ ی او را ندارند.
Mr and Mrs Dove in turn is a story of Reginald and Anne, he's docile and she's capricious and there is no chance for marriage, for it would mirror life of her birds,  away she runs, and after her...comes poor Mr Dove, bowing and bowing...and that's their whole life.This collection is rather uneven but it contains some gems, and these for me were The daughters of the late Colonel, in turns poignant and hilarious look at two old women facing reality after their despotic father’s death, the title Garden Party where young, sensitive Laura must face the truth that where some people are having good time others at this time die, and At the bay, rather novella than story, that looks like impressionistic picture, you almost can see brush strokes here and that reminded me a bit of Virginia Woolf.Mansfield was a keen observer, both people and surrounding world.
Nevertheless, I thought that perhaps now was a good time to try some different unread stories by her; “The Garden Party and Other Stories” seemed as good a time as ever.It’s interesting to note how her friends viewed her and that “Virginia Woolf once said: “I was jealous of her writing.
It was a small and cryptic gesture of reconciliation; they’d fallen out badly and in his previous letter he had said ‘You are a loathsome reptile - I hope you will die.’Returning to this book, as I’ve digressed, I think the fifteen stories that make up this set are skilfully written, but not for me.Many people, no doubt, will also agree on the following review that was given about this book:“Innovative, startlingly perceptive and aglow with colour, these fifteen stories were written towards the end of Katherine Mansfield's tragically short life.
A sense of a slightly desperate playfulness, laughing before the plague, a keenness for emotional intimacy which will either be denied or achieved at a cost (Mr & Mrs Dove, Marriage a la Mode).I am struck by how unrelenting Mansfield's vision is in the face of death one only strives for emotional contact or shrinks from life, nothing else gives comfort, not the natural world - people only recognise Roses apparently although some plants can be used as set dressing - though they may damage one's clothes (The Garden Party), there is music but that seems to come from one's emotional state so it reflects rather than transforms (The Singing Lesson).
I read that D H Lawrence once wrote to Katherine MansfieldYou are a loathsome reptile - I hope you will die.
… “Oh Isabel,” moaned Moira, “that wonderful bit about holding you in his arms!”I wasn’t especially brimming over with Mansfield love when I was reading most of this stuff, in the back of my head I was thinking okay, another one to tick off from The List of Unread Literature (o the awful List!
– keep it away from me!) – but I found that the stories have an afterglow, they’re like those lovely paintings by Corot, Pissarro and Sisley, just ordinary streets and fields, but so intensely understated, or understatedly intense.
No, old women aren’t like that any more, thank God. They’re so much better.
(3.5 stars) Katherine Mansfield creates stories set in a small, narrow world in which the details of life seem to be blown all out of proportion, at least to the sensibilities of a (this) modern reader.
The Garden Party takes a look at the privileged life of the upper classes and their superficiality and sets it, jarringly, against a fatal accident (which reminded me of Mrs. Dalloway’s party when someone inadvertently mentions death, upsetting her state of mind).
Again, I was reminded of Woolf, this time her short story The Legacy, which also deals in mutual alienation and treachery.
It was time for me to revisit the work of my favourite New Zealand author, Katherine Mansfield.KM wrote the way an Impressionist painter painted -with deft paint strokes she painted her world.
She didn't live with the family though  (hide spoiler)]The notes with my Penguin give the setting as Karori, but it definitely isn't.
(hide spoiler)] 5★The VoyageBeautiful writing of the slice of life kind.
My heart ached before I started reading (as I knew what was coming) I wish I could give 6★, but 5 it is.
Another story based on KM's own family 5★The Singing Lesson Well written, but all a bit obvious.
I read some Katherine Mansfield during my year of reading Oceania, since she is from New Zealand, and knew I needed to read more.
This set of stories is from the end of her life, the same era as the years right after the first world war.
The endings are often obscure, and would make for great discussion in a group.Another element of Mansfield's stories that I really like is that the NZ landscape is always present.
I received an advance copy of this new edition from the publisher through Edelweiss, although these stories had previously been published.
'Short stories' doesn't seem like the right word for this collection.
They're short descriptions of events with a keen eye on personal detail as a substitute for long exposition.
She does not always say where a story is, but instead leaves you to find it - like how some characters refer to the 'bush' as the wilderness.There's a heavy current of nostalgia here - Mansfield speaks fondly of the scenes in New Zealand.
But that nostalgia is not pleasant either, as Mansfield can be an unsettled and melancholy author.
In this way, she makes the stories personal, unnerving, and something to remember.
You witnessed their emotions, listened to their thoughts and sometimes observed them making a life altering decision.My favorites from this collection were: At the Bay, The Garden Party, The Voyage, Miss Brill, and The Lady's Maid.Most of the stories dealt with women.
You saw some of them go out into the world for the first time, but the characters that affected me most were the ones with the sad stories.
Miss Brill, for example, who has formed this imaginary world around her, feeling that she is needed and has formed imaginary connections with strangers.
Katherine Mansfield's writing is very sharp.
In her stories there is almost always something left unsaid, an elephant in the room, that only the reader can see—or that the characters are unwilling to acknowledge.
That being said, some of the stories did feel a bit lacking for me.
It took me a while to adjust to her storytelling, which meant quite a few stories left me scratching my head.
It's a shame she isn't taught in high schools (maybe she is but not widely) because she's easy to read and her stories would provide lots to discuss.
Katherine Mansfield lived from 1888 to 1923, but she would have been revolutionary in any era, and she is an obvious predecessor to John Cheever and Shirley Jackson in their tradition of exposing the underbelly of families and working men.
The writing is so good you can taste it.An Ideal Family, the story of old Mr. Neave in his "perfect family," evokes the work of Mansfield's successors, John Cheever and Shirley Jackson.
From this book of short stories, she's a writer interested in small but illuminating moments in a life: a young woman coming face-to-face with death for the first time (The Garden Party); another young woman at her first ball who suddenly gets a glimpse of what her future might be (Her First Ball); the schoolteacher whose lesson covers over her fraught emotions roused by a letter from her fiancé (The Singing Lesson).There are places where Mansfield is very visual in her style, almost as if she's looking at a painting by someone like Renoir and penetrating beneath the surface to tell the stories under the paint.
At others, she concentrates on the tensions between how people, often women, look and behave socially and what is running through their heads and hearts.
The events in these tales are often small, almost inconsequential in some cases, but Mansfield squeezes out their significance with consummate ease.
Katherine Mansfield writes short stories with zest and resonance.
This collection includes stories with settings in New Zealand (where she lived as a child and adolescent), the French Riviera and England.
She writes with a distinctive style and conveys complex truths and thoughts with deceptive simplicity.The characters in each story all have a suggestive isolation from each other.
Some stories are tinged with a critical, teasing and despairing feel.
Others have sensitive vulnerability, colour and a lovely spirit.There is an edge to Mansfield's writing which I love!
A lightness of touch, economy with words, subtleness and ambiguity permeate her stories and leave a wonderful, haunting memory.
I'm so excited because I've discovered a new writer, at least new to me, and I will look forward to many wonderful hours of reading as I work my way through the rest of Mansfield's collections. If The Garden Party and Other Stories is any indication, Katherine Mansfield was a master at wriiting short stories. Born in New Zealand but moved to England, she was friends with D.H. Lawrence and Virginia Woolf. Like the Bronte's, she lived a short but productive literary life. She died of an illness in 1923 at the age of 34.
مجموعه من مال نشر ماهی هه،و گویا مفصل تر از مجموعه های قبلیه۲۱۰ صفحه ست.با ترجمه خیلی خوب خانم انتخابی.یه مجموعه داستان کوتاه فوق العاده ،شاید به جرات بگم همه داستاناشو دوست داشتم.اگر داستان کوتاه های چخوف رو دوست دارین احتمالا این کارو هم دوست داشته باشین:)
10'dan fazla hikaye içeren kitaptaki anlatılar öyle tuhaf kesitleri içeriyordu ki sanki bir filmin ortasından bir dilimi alıp anlatmış havası vardı. (giriş yok, son yok) Belki çeviriden, belki betimleme şeklinden bilemiyorum hikayelere pek dahil olamadım. Aklımda kalan, babaları vefat etmiş kızların hikayesi çok güzeldi. Yanlış çıkarım yapmadıysam bütün hikaye ya bir ahlak kuralı ya da etki üzerine kurulmuştu ama bir sorun vardı ne olduğunu anlayamadığım. Zweig reisin kitapları gibi akıp gitmedi.
This will not be a terribly thoughtful review, just an expression of excitement.
I don’t know how I got this far in my life without anybody telling me what a wonderful writer Katherine Mansfield was.
She was a master of the modern short story.
When I consider most of the 20C short story collections I’ve read, I think that Mansfield got there first, and did it better.
And there was a terrible moment when I saw why Virginia Woolf felt so threatened by her, because, if I’d read the book with no cover or front matter, I’d have thought, Wow, Virginia’s in really good form here!
Y es ahí donde se puede apreciar la sutileza de Mansfield para introducir matices en los relatos y hasta para darles una vuelta más a los personajes, que tienen muy poco tiempo (hago una equiparación con la extensión del cuento) para desarrollarse y están atrapados por las convenciones.Lo único que no me gustó es el final, y con “final” me refiero a las últimas líneas.
Por lo general, los finales de Mansfield suelen ser así, pero en cierto punto me causan desesperación porque me generan expectativa.
~~~~~~~~~~~~The major recurring themes are of the transitory nature of time which flies by and leaves your life behind before you had the time to make sense of it; death (it seems to be tied to water and especially crossing water, as it emerges as a major theme in both stories in which water travel appears); love and alienation; social injustice; the fragile sense of self-worth of most humans and the myriads of ways it can be shattered; freedom and social confines; the subtle but relentless societal mechanisms that make people do certain things and move in a certain direction even when they're not sure if they like it.
If anything ties these stories together it is a thread of disappointment and regret; from an old man’s enforced retirement and his realization that his son is going to ruin the business he created (An Ideal Family), to an office worker whose wife (“the new Isabelle”) has forced a change of lifestyle on him with a move out of London to the ‘burbs where she dallies with a group of friends with artistic pretensions (Marriage a la Mode), to a marriage proposal that is gently but determinedly rejected (Mr and Mrs Dove)Katherine Mansfield’s gaze can be piercing or at least faintly mocking when directed at the pretensions of her own class or of the artistic community, less so when she writes about the working class, where she lapses into a cringey sort of sentimentalism, and those I would only rate 3-star at best.
The fifteen short stories collected under this title are exquisite.
They are not short stories in the classical sense.
Her ear for dialog was wonderful.
She could capture a conversation by using only one side of the dialog.
Each ‘story’ represents a slice of life, usually a brief interval or a short experience of a principal character.
Aside from the title story, “The Garden Party,” an example of ‘class’ thinking in England at the time, I particularly liked “Miss Brill,” “An Ideal Family,” and “The Lady’s Maid.” You will not find stories like this other than in Ms. Mansfield’s works.
My favourites were The Garden Party, Marriage A La Mode, The Stranger, Her First Ball, and Miss Brill. One of the best collections of short stories I have read.
خیلی خوب بود.چه چاپ قدیمی خوبی داشت.یک داستان قوی، پرسرعت، و چفت و بستدار با پایانی خوب.(خوب از لحاظ داستانی، نه هپی اندینگ؛ طبعا):)))
خیلی خوب بود.چه چاپ قدیمی خوبی داشت.یک داستان قوی، پرسرعت، و چفت و بست‌دار با پایانی خوب.(خوب از لحاظ داستانی، نه هپی اندینگ؛ طبعا):)))
This is my first reading of a collection of short stories by Katherine Mansfield.
While back I read "The Garden Party" which was amazing but not in an extraordinary way.
It did not stress on the dramatization of the story or the completeness of the plot.After reading the collection it's very clear that is a characteristic of her tales.
It's like she's trying to capture the moments of the human’s heart.
I guess she is not much loved or overlooked because she only wrote short stories.
If she changed from them to novels like James Joyce did, she too might have been more beloved.
So many stories to love in this collection. I especially enjoyed The Daughters of the Late Colonel, Miss Brill, and The Singing Lessons. Mansfield wrote so well about crowds and noise and activity, and I loved how many of these stories ended, often quite abruptly mid-scene and on a question of how things might continue.
