https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/527873.A_Deadly_Shade_of_Gold
The ending is not violent at all, but kind and resonating, as McGee plays guardian angel so at least one good thing can come out of Sam Taggart’s death.Rich, colorful, incredibly involving and satisfying, A Deadly Shade of Gold is the kind of read that is marvelous on its own, and foreshadows the even deeper and more mature resonance of the last few books in the series.
POW!Robin: Holy Aztec gold, Batman!
Or have we?Robin: Um, not sure what that has to do with the book, you did read it right Batman?
We’re talking about where Travis goes to Mexico to solve the mystery of who killed his friend and to find ancient gold.Batman: Of course, but there’s also a lot of drinking, where McGee feels remorse for his shooting and violence.
A boy of your age is not allowed in a drinking tavern.Robin: Right … But the book also features lots of great quotes from MacDonald, though this was an action series BAM!
MacDonald, however, you are also likely to find weird paragraphs sprinkled into the novel that deal with economics, politics, love, lust, the John Birch Society, and the ethics of hunting.
Reading MacDonald is like having a surprisingly lucid conversation with a drunk economics professor who you recently discovered just killed a man with his golf club.
You can't pull away from the conversation and aren't quite sure if the story is going to continue, or if he is going to explore a tangent more appropriate for an economics class or his therapist.
His brain is amazing and his stories definitely titillate on several levels at once.
Many good and gentle people have fallen in love this night.
1. This spoiler is about any of the previous novels in the series (view spoiler)[Given the track record (three of four to so far) of women he really likes getting killed while he's trying to solve his case (is that the right word for what he does?) did he think it would end well bringing Nora to Mexico with him?
Possibly the most condensed ending of any of the books in the series so far.
I held my glass up and said, "Drink to me, my friend.
I've started going back through the Travis McGee books off and on in-order since last winter.
A Deadly Shade of Gold has actually been the one that impressed me the most so far with it's plot of McGee running a scam to avenge a friend, but of course, ending up with a lot of physical injuries and emotional regrets.
I think a lot crime fans may not realize how influential MacDonald and McGee were on the modern mystery novel, and it's been interesting reading them from the perspective of 40 years after they were written.
In this, my third read of ~~~Cathy’s swooning over~~~Travis McGee~~~Cathy’s sighing over Travis McGee~~~ok, I admit it, there is no other like Travis McGee in my little black book. I’m reading much more carefully than ever before in part because of the ongoing discussion of Travis on D. R. Martin’s blog, Travis McGee & Me when specific questions and discussion come about.  Travis McGee, Salvage ConsultantIn my opinion, Travis though JDM, of course, is more philosophical in this book than any
R. Martin’s blog, Travis McGee & Me when specific questions and discussion come about.
“My dear dead animals.
If it was permitted, I would have his head in here, mounted like the others.“ Then later, “You might be enough man for me.”Travis speaking in the first person, “I do not like the killers, and the killing bravely and well crap.
His manhood would need no artificial reinforcing.” If a reader does not like JDM's writing, doesn't like Travis McGee, that’s fine with me.
Number five in the Travis McGee series but only the second one I have read.
An old friend shows up needing help, but gets killed before he can really explain to Travis what has gone wrong.
I checked this out at the library while I was in Arizona, and there was only one title more available (review coming right up!) so I guess I am done with Travis McGee for awhile unless I treat myself to an online shopping spree one of these days or see him in the used book sale shelves the next time I go to Arizona.
***.Most of the Travis McGee novels by MacDonald that I have read incorporate relatively straight-forward plots along with philosophical asides by Travis.
Once having figured out where the plot line really goes, the story becomes more typical of a Travis McGee dilemma A friend of Travis’s gives his a call one evening His friend, Sam Taggart, hasn’t been around for about three years – ever since he had broken up with his girlfriend.
Taggart tells Travis on the phone that he needs help, but also discusses the possibility that he might be able to see his old girlfriend (Nora Gardino) to see if things could be patched up.
I don't even know how to begin without sounding like an asshole or revealing some serious masculinity issues.
Shall I dare say that Travis McGee is a kind of "man's man"?
Why by living on a BOAT in the Florida Keys OF COURSE.
Maybe you socked away like 50K by being a prostitute and now your pimp wants you dead?
Brother also has this genius friend named Meyer who also lives on a boat and is an accountant.
One thing that's tough for Trav but maybe convenient in the grand landscape of this series?
I am a huge fan of the Travis McGee series, and this is one of my favorites. Trav is everything a detective hero should be: cunning, rakish, good with his hands, prone to deep thought and susceptible to love with the wrong kind of ladies. These books were mostly written in the 1960s so some of the plot lines are pretty retro, but the plots and action stand up today!
"Reasonable conservatism is a healthy thing...but poisonous divisionist hatemongering is the heart of contemporary propaganda, amigo, to strengthen ignorant terrible men who believe themselves to be perfect patriots...any way that they can make Americans hate Americans helps..." writes MacDonald.
What's great?At 400+ pages, this is epic MacDonald/McGee with epic stage sets on which epic, stupendous action sequences occur.
I'm reading this McGee series in order, and as far as plot, thrills, and sex go, this one is the best of the five.
A new favorite comfort read, along with Dame Agatha and M.C. Beaton, who has a new, third series!
At a point in this text, I happened to wonder if I knew what would happen, and I got it right. Still, just as in genres said to be more literary, the pleasures to be found were in characterization and thought, rather than in plot. The pleasures and the psychological perceptions were not mine, but they were great.
This is one of the best paced and plotted crime novels I've ever read. I found it even more satisfying than the first in the series. Many fans have expressed disappointment at the length -- almost double that of its predecessors -- but I enjoyed the further development of McGee's background and his lengthier-than-usual observations of society. It's amazing how relevant most of this is today, although it was penned 45 years ago.
Stephen King has sung his praises for years, and Dean Koontz claims MacDonald is his favorite novelist of all time.
But my to-read list is long, and there's not much room for mystery writers--even well-praised ones.
But then I heard a recent interview with Tim Powers--my favorite author who's not Gene Wolfe--and he practically insisted the interviewer read John D.
This is part of a series of 21 books featuring Travis McGee, a tough, smart, likable character who lives on a houseboat in Florida and helps people out when they need it--generally for a cut of the proceeds.
A masterpiece of American crime fiction and a remarkable piece of mid-Twentieth Century literature.
At over four hundred pages, it is one of the longer McGee novels, but well worth the time it takes to read.
It is filled with adventure, intrigue, romance, social commentary, and some of the best and most in-depth characterizations you will read anywhere.
One of the things that really stands out about Macdonald's McGee series is that somehow he captures the substance of people and is able to convey it in his lengthy detailed descriptions.
The social commentary he engages in does not feel dated or past its time even now.

This novel has two relatively self-contained stories in it -- one in Mexico and one in Los Angeles.
I liked the first a lot more than the second.
The second is a little too...
real.
McGee runs around doing dangerous things.
I find I want him to get away with it unscathed, and it catches up with him a bit here.A shining moment is that Meyer appears for the first time in this novel.
He is first mentioned in the last one, and makes a relatively trivial appearance in this one.
I remember from my previous readings that he will eventually be one of my favorite characters.

Another great addition in the McGee series. When someone that's need his help, with the understanding of a 50-50 split, if it goes as planned, to the suspense and intrigue that follow. I have to say in his 5th adventure, there was a higher body count then in the past stories, and they were all hard on our hero. I always enjoy McGee's philosophy on how/why the outcome will turnout for the characters involved...including himself. With the wonderful atmosphere of being sent back to the mid '60's, this series has aged gracefully.
By far the best Travis McGee since The Deep Blue Good-By.A little convoluted, but almost a pitch perfect examination of the darkness of the human heart. John D. MacDonald's pen is still as sharp and enlightened, Travis McGee is still a cunning psychologist and there's another fascinating woman thrown his way. A strong, loving an courageous women in grief. It's a tad nihilistic compared to its predecessor, but it's still a damned fine mystery.
Far better than The Quick Red Fox. The mystery worked. Still I got a bit bored. I've read a bit much of Travis McGee in too short a time. I don't, for the record, think he's sexist. Yes, it's a male fantasy of having women willingly want you. But this book is from 1965, and it is what it is and doesn't bother me. That said, I'm bored of him sleeping with different women in every book. I just need a little space.
Compared to the earlier Travis McGee books A Deadly Shade of Gold is substantially longer with a more complex plot than the standard rather straight forward affair seen in earlier books. I found book before this in the series was one of the best so far and MacDonald has built further upon that with this one raising the standard even higher.
A beautifully structured mystery. Easily the longest McGee to date, no pun intended. Had the McGee rantings I've grown to love. It gave me what I wanted, Scotch and a Mexican hooker.

In this fifth book of the series, Travis McGee, happy in his semi-retirement and living on his moored houseboat, “The Busted Flush” is contacted by an old buddy named Sam Taggart.
He joins up with Nora, one of Sam’s previous acquaintances and almost-bride, and together they follow the trail to the small fishing village of Puerto Altamara, Mexico.There are surprises galore, deadly danger, and the usual women that seem intent on comforting poor Travis McGee. This is, I believe, the longest of all the books in the series and it tends to meander a bit too much for my taste.
A good story by a great author. Some interesting comments about governments. Good to go back and read an old one.
And gallant Travis McGee’s behavioral rebellion against the Playboy ethos is awfully quaint now, poor lad not yet knowing about the feminist movement soon to come.A DEADLY SHADE OF GOLD is the most character-heavy and darkest in mood of the McGee series.
An alteration here and there in his genial temperament, and the world would suffer a much rougher, crueler, more mercenary McGee (like Junior Allen in THE DEEP BLUE GOOD-BY and even more like his friend Sam Taggart in A DEADLY SHADE OF GOLD).
Geopolitical milestones now lost in the mist are very important in A DEADLY SHADE OF GOLD.
Drunks, maniacs and pregnant women are the customary exceptions.Synopsis: Unlicensed Florida investigator and houseboat-resident Travis McGee sets out to avenge the death of an old friend, winds up in Mexico and then L.A. and uncovers at least three plots too many, two of which involve Cuba and one of which involves a dead dog.Travis McGee is watching his best friend assemble a platter of pretty young women aboard McGee's houseboat, The Busted Flush, when he gets one of Those Kind of phone calls: his old friend Sam, who disappeared three years ago, is calling from a payphone in Georgia, on the run and in need of McGee's help.
The Gold Medal books were at their lean and mean best as 160-page, 2-3 hour reads.
To pump them up to 287 pages (400 plus with large type) takes away a lot of the appeal, at least for me.Plot here is that an old friend of McGee's sneaks back into town and confides in McGee before getting himself killed.
Plus plenty of MacDonald's (via mouthpiece McGee) social commentary rants, and if you enjoy those, you get a bit more of them in this one than the preceding books in the series.
