https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/629931.The_Night_of_the_Iguana
This is my second Tennessee Williams play, having read A Streetcar Named Desire a couple of years ago.
I admit that it’s fortunate I didn’t start with The Night of the Iguana as my introduction to the Pulitzer Prize winning playwright, because my somewhat lukewarm reception of this may have steered me away from reading another.
The penniless Hannah arrives with soon-to-be ninety-eight year old grandfather, Nonno.
There is a good kind of pride and he has it, carrying it like a banner wherever he goes." Hannah fears Nonno has very little time left in this world, and Nonno is determined to find inspiration to finish writing his first poem in twenty years.
A master American playwright who focused on the failings of the human experience, Williams' words are not to be missed; thus, I was more than intrigued to immerse myself in his 1962 work taking place on a veranda of a Mexican rooming house.It is 1940, and World War II is raging in Europe.
This tete a tete between the two leading protagonists sets the stage for a three act play full of memorable characters and dialogues.Also vacationing in Mexico are a busload of young women, a family of Germans looking to escape the fighting in their country while still supporting the Third Reich, and a spinster artist named Hannah Jelkes along with her nonagenarian grandfather, the poet Jonathan Coffin.
All that will be needed to carry out the stormy climax of the story is the captive iguana to signify the key characters’ plight—that they are all in their own way at the end of their ropes.”So when the iguana finally made its entrance and, I continued reading, I could see why it was there and also its importance.
He tries to determine what her sexual appetite is like and she rather shyly admits to two encounters when it is pretty obvious that her needs and wants are different to Shannon but still there is the prospect of a new life.
T. Lawrence Shannon arrives at a second-rate hotel on the west coast of Mexico with a tour bus of American schoolteachers.
He's on the verge of a breakdown, and wants to talk with his friend who runs the hotel.
Hannah Jelkes, a serene impoverished artist, arrives with her poet grandfather a few minutes later.The play centers on Shannon who will soon lose his job as a tour guide.
It took me a while to get into "The Night of the Iguana", but the last half was wonderful, highlighted by the well-written conversation between Shannon and Hannah.
By far not my favorite Tennessee Williams play.
I did not feel an affinity with any of the characters, which makes it harder to step into their skin and feel their pain.
The tender relationship between Hannah and her Grandfather, and the knowledge that even if he survived this night he could not hope to survive many more, made her character both interesting and worthy of sympathy for me.
I do think, as with all plays, this might appeal more when "seen" vs.
John Huston's 1964 adaptation of Tennessee Wiliams's Night of the Iguana is one of my dad's favorite films of all time, so I grew up knowing the characters: Reverend Larry Shannon, battling his demons after being locked out of his Episcopal church for having sex with a young Sunday-school teacher; Maxine Faulk (my hands-down favorite at the time), the crass, sexually omnivorous widow whose at whose hotel Shannon arrives, with twenty angry female Baptists in tow; the otherworldly spinster Hannah Jelkes and her 97-year-old grandfather, the oldest practicing poet in the world.
It becomes a clear stand-in metaphor for the people who are "at the end of their rope" and feeling stuck there: Maxine, who runs the place and finds herself sexually and emotionally lonely in the aftermath of the death of her husband; Father Shannon, a defrocked minister with an appetite for emotional break-downs, booze, and young women; Nonno, at 97 the oldest living poet with a fading mind who's struggling to write his last great poem before he dies; his grand-daughter, Hannah, a water-colorist who's taking care of Nonno while they travel the world with nary a bill left in their pockets.
This play conjures images similar to what you'd get from Malcom Lowery, William Burroughs or Roberto Bolano in their Mexicali treatments. It's the classic 'it happened one night' one-off menagerie of happenstance characters come together in mystic setting with mother nature adding inclement weather and the lonely iguana a sacrificial prop - somethin' got to give and it probably gone be a hoot fore the wind dies back down. It's a two toddy three act gothic palooza.
In the Broadway production, Patrick O'Neal and Margaret Leighton played the lead male and female characters, the Revered Lawrence Shannon and Hannah Jelkes.
They offer largely comic interludes to the internal, private drama of the play.Williams wrote that the theme of this play is "how to live beyond despair and still live." In Shannon, Hannah Jelkes, and Mrs Faulke as well the play shows tormented lonely people "at the end of their rope" who strive to make a human connection and to find meaning in their lives.
Shannon stays on as a companion to Mrs Faulke to comfort her, help with the hotel, and satisfy its female guests.
نمایشنامه ای از تنسی ویلیامز و پیرو آثار معروف و قویترش مثل باغ وحش شیشه ای ، اتوبوسی به نام هوس و گربه ای روی شیروانی داغ به وجوه روانی انسان های شکلی از زندگی که ما در ادبیات با عنوان رئالیسم نام میبریم میپردازه .
این کشیش که دست به انواع جرم ها و اعمال مغایر اخلاق زده درنمایش در آستانه دیوانگی دیده میشه واین دیوانگی رو با دو زن قسمت میکنه .
شب ایگوانا روایت روان انسان های سرکوب شده مدرن که در ارتباطات منفعل و در زندگی بی هدف هستند میباشد ..
This is a great dark little piece about some pathetic characters at the end of their run in a 40’s Mexican hotel.
Maxine, the “stout, swarthy woman…affable and rapaciously lusty,” handily manages the hotel on her hustling, but admits that she only has a few years left “to make this place attractive to the male clientele, the middle-aged ones at least.” Even the relatively young Hannah is tired of her strange life as traveling sketch artist, accompanying her poet-showman grandfather, who is approaching the end of his literal life (his last name is “Coffin!”).
I particularly loved Shannon's description of God as a senile delinquent:Yeah, this angry, petulant old man.
Yes, I tell you they do that, all our theologies do it -- accuse God of being a cruel senile delinquent, blaming the world and brutally punishing all he created for his own faults in construction....In that remote Mexican hotel overlooking the Pacific Ocean, Shannon goes mad, by bits and pieces, while Hannah tries to keep him together.
All the time this is happening, Maxine, the owner of the hotel, wants Shannon for herself.
The edition I read (ISBN 978-0-8112-1852-8) was published in 2009 by New Directions and contains a new introduction by Doug Wright and a new essay by Kenneth Holditch.
Williams's 1948 short story "The Night Of The Iguana" is included, as well as the play, of course, which was first performed (on Broadway, at least) in 1961.
As an introduction to Williams, this particular edition of THE NIGHT OF THE IGUANA is just about perfect.
Kenneth Holditch's essay describes the Chicago premiere of the play, with actors who, of course, knew Williams.My guess is Williams is more loved than O'Neill and it is certain his plays are performed as frequently as O'Neill's.
There is not a more perfect way to have read this than sitting around with friends eating fabulous food and getting drunk.
Life is funny just by the tragedy of what it entails.
The part of the writing that makes Williams so incredible is his descriptions of the stage direction.
I love the way he writes and I need to read some more.
Having people perform the roles does bring it alive in a way that is different from just reading it.
His eyes lit up at the mention of the play I was planning on reading.
Life is kind of Random.
Interesting character study. Perhaps not as relevant today as it was when first written. Quick read, though, and I'm glad I read it again.
Surprisingly a lot to like.
The real power of the play is between Hannah and Shannon, and while I was curious about what would happen to the 'fallen' reverend Shannon, Hannah's character eventually takes centre stage leaving me at her corner, curious about her and why she is suddenly the one in control, comforting Shannon and warding off Mrs Faulks.
If not for the weak symbolism and relevance of the iguana (didn't really do much for the play), and the annoying Germans with the whole irrelevant Nazi hoopla, which came across as slapstick (maybe they were added for comic relief), I'd haven given this 5 stars.
The characters do not have very many redeeming qualities but Tennessee Williams makes it work.
He makes you like these characters and feel sympathetic toward them in a way that only he can do.
I enjoyed the dialogue; it was funny and smart in a way that only Williams could have been.
I recommend it to anyone who likes Tennessee Williams or reading a great play where the dialogue is smart and the story can be funny and sometimes sad but always in love with the human condition and the ability to make the best of a situation no matter how tough or daunting it may seem.
Having that film (which mostly follows the play) in my head brought up some nice compare and contrast ideas.First of all I was struck with that in "The Night of the Iguana" the reader does not know what exactly is going to happen.
In Streetcar, there was little drama in any mystery of anything that was going to happen.
The drama in Streetcar was how it was going to happen.In Iguana, the night is unsettled throughout the play.
Does that mean "The Night of the Iguana" is better than "A Streetcar Named Desire"?
Just did a full reading of this with a book club I belong to. The reading doubled as a dinner party and was tons of fun. Short of seeing it performed, a group reading was the best way of experiencing it. A great play with Williams' typical dysfunction and emotional realism. The human characters struggle to free themselves from a shackled existence and judgments of the society around them, much like the iguana for whom the play is named. Williams is one of the best at capturing human striving when past failures and current ennui seem most likely to triumph.
There's a line that stands out for me as quintessential Williams: Bigger than life, and twice as unnatural.The man liked drama, and even if I'm not sure what he's on about, I still appreciate his inclinations.
This play is one of those pieces that will haunt you for a long time after you've closed the book.
I felt like many of the characters were a bit too over the top and almost became sort of caricatures of who they were supposed to symbolize or represent, and this lessened the impact or theme that Williams was trying to project, or perhaps the message he was trying to bring forth.
For that reason, many of the primary characters like Shannon and Maxine aren’t characters you can get invested in fully.
However, I do think the play somewhat redeems itself in the final act.
In the end, I don’t think The Night of the Iguana can compare to the likes of A Streetcar Named Desire or The Glass Menagerie.
In my opinion Williams' best work that I've read. What a goddam story. Every character was just another adventure. Down to the most minute detail Williams just covers it all, and always manages to convey such emotion, and sincerity, and love for his craft. Great play, I'd love to see it acted out.
Interesting cast of characters until Williams' divebombs at the end with an overly long scene between Shannon and Hannah. I ended up just skipping lines between them because it became boring.
Did not finish at halfway mark so not fair to rate/review.
Although this is not Williams at his best, it is a good play, a snapshot of life of desperate, charged characters thrown together at the brink of break down.
Hannah, the artist who wants to see the beauty of the world, and Shannon, the minister who has lost his faith, are empty people, knowing that their lives have been a striving for something better, but, at the end of the day, they find freedom in understanding that there isn’t much to be understood, except how to care for each other.
It includes Williams' 1948 short story on which the play is based.
This volume includes an introduction written by American playwright Doug Wright, William's essay about the play "A Summer of Discovery," and an essay by scholar Kenneth Holdich "Acts of Grace." One of the biggest differences between the play and the film was the exclusion of the Germans.
The short story is quite different from the play as well, but one can see which elements Williams drew from it for his play.
I think this play is certainly one of Williams' superior works.
Perhaps this play (screenplay?) translates better on stage, or in the John Huston film.
The only redemptive part, for me, were the frank exchanges between chaste Hannah and cracked-up has-been priest Shannon after his mental breakdown.
Shannon's lust is apparent enough) and the themes (the struggling, chained iguana; the constant struggle between righteousness and temptation; Nono's struggle to finish that last poem) beautiful but disjointed from the plot.2 stars for the play (this is far too long/verbose to be a play, in my opinion) - but interested to see the movie.
Some of the set direction (eg showing multiple discrete rooms/scenes seemingly at once) seems well-evolved for film.
I did a monologue from this play written by my very distant cousin in my first drama class at Miami U.
- also my last I believe.
The grades were posted and as I recall I was the only one to receive an A (-), or at any rate one of the few.
I vividly remember standing in line for a conference with the prof.
I overheard him tell the girl in line ahead of me that she should pursue an acting career.
No such advice was directed at me and I ended up with a C in the class, one of the few in my college career.
Sweetly melancholic.
