https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/896628.Come_Love_a_Stranger
He elegido "Amarás un extraño" porque lo publicó un par de años después que "Una rosa..." y la sinopsis prometía otro triángulo de personajes protagonistas Ashton-Lieren-Malcolm.
Pero no nos engañemos, la magia de Erienne-Seton-Saxton no se repite en "Amarás a un extraño" :(.La sinopsis ya nos revela la trama del libro: "Para el apuesto Asthon aquella mujer milagrosamente reencontrada era su adorada Lieren, la esposa perdida en un accidente de navegación, la mujer que le había enseñado el arrebato del amor verdadero en una breve luna de miel cruelmente interrumpida.
Not that I don't appreciate a good HEA, but there are some stories that can't be told that way, and this was one of them.It was utterly unbelievable, even if you forgive it for using the trite combination of convenient amnesia and identical twins.
We knew it was his wife, even if that answer defied all logic and common sense and even though it might have even been a better love story if he had come to know and fall in love with the sister in her own right, and not because she was her twin.But I'm getting ahead of myself.
ben böyle bir kitap görmedim......kitabın sonuna kadar heyecan doruktaydı...
Daha doğrusu çarpışıyor...Ata binmiş olan Lierin Ashton'un arabasına çarpıyor..ve hafızasını kaybediyor...Ashton Lierin'i evine götürüyor ve herkese onun karısı olduğunu söylüyor...
Tam böyle mutluluğu yakalamışken Malcolm Sinclair -kitabın sonuna kadar nefret ettim- ortaya çıkıp onun Lierin değil de ikiz kardeşi Lenore olduğunu ..hatta kendisinin karısı olduğunu delilleriyle beraber Ashton'a gösterir..Ama Ashton çok sevdiği karısını ikinci kez kaybetmeye tahammül edemez...
Ama Malcolm'un kanıtlarınıda göz ardı edemez..Ve Lierin-Lenore 'un peşini Bioxin-olması lazım-'e kadar takipeder..Zira Lierin-Lenore babası ve orda olacağını bilmediği Malcolmla beraber o evde yaşamaya başlamıştır...
Birkaç ufak tefek insanlar daha var...Ama onlarda o kadar büyütülecek tipte değiller...
Ridiculousness. I don't mind an OTT HR, even one with (view spoiler)[a drowned wife, her amnesiac twin, a burning asylum, and a clueless, bigamist hero (hide spoiler)]as long as I can enjoy the writing. I don't remember Woodiwiss'style in The Wolf and the Dove being so insufferably flowery and slower than a snail's pace. Her attempt at writing a gothic drama? Missed her humor and straightforward prose. Not my cuppa. DNF.
In this one, she has every black character address Ashton, the hero, as "Massa." Yes, you read that correctly: "Massa." And she doesn't even try to use it in an interesting or critical way.
There are some more blatantly racist white characters, and we know they're "bad people" because they use the n-word.
Yet, the reason we're not supposed to like the racists' slurs is because we as readers know Ashton's slaves are indeed "good blacks" because they serve the white people with the altruism expected.
Entertaining Amnesia Plot, but slightly flawed 3.5 stars.
7 of 8 people found the following review helpful:  Entertaining Amnesia Plot, but slightly flawed 3.5 stars, November 16, 2007 Newly wed Ashton Wingate and his wife Lierin are set upon by river pirates and Lierin is swept off the boat into the river and presumed drowned.
Thus begins KEW's entertaining take on your basic amnesia plot.
Woodiwiss does a nice job with the romance of Ashton and Lierin, plenty of mystery, suspense and evil villains -- albeit the villains were just a tad bit over the top for me.
This book has a problem. Bear with me for a moment:The quiet peace of the moonlit river was broken by the hushed murmur of voices and the steady pulsing of pistons in a powerful engine.The rushing burble of water beneath a stout hull softly harmonized with the long sighs of these monster steam pistons and the chugging splash of water under the paddle wheel...There a frigging adjective. before. every. noun.Don't get me wrong, I don't have anything against adjectives per se.I just dislike being told that peace is quiet, murmurs are hushed and a pulse is steady.Goodbye, Ms Woodiwiss
Reviewed for THC ReviewsCome Love a Stranger was a re-read for me, and although I did correctly remember the heroine's identity, there was little else about the story that I could recall.
I've only read a few of Kathleen Woodiwiss' books, the last one being about four years ago, which was before I started reviewing and really analyzing how each author writes.
Lierin/Lenore was a likable heroine, although I think perhaps she gave in to the notion that she was not Ashton's wife a bit too easily.
This read more like a soap opera than a romance novel.
I know romance novels aren't exactly of the highest caliber, but this one was atrocious.
This is the last Woodiwiss novel I will ever read.
her others had adventure in their romances, this one was incredibly stagnant, there was no love between the characters Lieren and Ashton, they remained strangers themselves even after their connection was "established".
Maybe Ms. Woodiwiss was trying to right the wrongs critics had with her earlier novels of not fleshing out the antagonists, but instead it went way beyond the call of duty.
One of the better books by this author. Her earlier books were all wonderful. I don't know what happened to her later books, but I didn't care for most of them. Come Love a Stranger is a wonderful romance. If you have not read it and like romance, I highly recommend it. Be sure to check out this author's Shanna, too.
Great story by a favorite author.
I started this book a couple of times, just couldn't get into it. Very unusual because I have, I believe, read pretty much all of her books. KW is one of my favourite authors and one of the best ever. Her earlier works are some of the best books ever written and TWaTD is my all time favourite. Sadly this was a DNF for me hence the one star.

Sad to say I was disappointed with this.The reason I like Woodiwiss is because unlike a lot of authors in the romance genre, she can actually write.You can tell she's been inspired by classics like Jane Eyre and Wuthering Heights, she writes plot driven and descriptive stories.
She's been a pioneer for historical romance and with good reason.Come Love a Stranger had an amazing premise, but it just didn't live up to its potential.There were random bouts of useless meandering.
Too much plot.
One too many twists to be believable.I wouldn't recommend unless you're a fan of Woodiwiss.Three stars for decent writing and entertaining read.
This is the first romance novel I ever read, back when I was like 11?
Woodiwiss- she was someone I read as a young teen- and as I have grown so have my tastes...but I can't pretend Woodiwiss hasn't set my bar high.
I particularly am in love with this book, and feel like I'd love it even if it weren't for my name (you know, that does help it's case.) I won't pretend romance authors haven't, since, tried to recapture this plot in their own multitude of ways--- But Come Love a Stranger has always and will always own the Amnesia-Love-Story.
Este libro ha sido un tanto extraño... me ha resultado enredoso y raro, para luego tener un final para mi opinion, muy poco creible5/10
what a fantastic book. kudos to woodiwiss for hitting another one out of the park. if nora roberts is the queen of contemporary romances woodiwiss certainly holds the title for historical ones. she always manages to find the sweet spot in dialogue between modern and historically accurate speech giving it the proper tone without being hard to read. her plots are always well thought out gripping and brilliantly executed. the characters as always are extremely endearing or revolting (villains) and realistic. if you love historical romances you should definitely check all of her books out especially this one.
I thought I had it all figured out before I hit the last hundred pages but no such luck.
I'm not good at figuring out mysteries anyway but I really did think I had this one nailed.
Nah. The ending was a total surprise to me.The story was filled with twists and turns and even a few, "No ways" and I thoroughly enjoyed this book.I thought I'd read it years ago but after reading it, I must have it mixed up with something else.
I would have remembered this if I had.So good!
Esta historia desde el inicio me mantuvo con el suspenso de quién era la chica: Lierin o Lenore, aunque estaba casi convencida de que era Lierin, estaba como Ashton :)Muy buen desenvolvimiento de todo el trama, Kathleen me mantuvo encantada con la historia y personalidad de cada uno de los personajes. Lo único de lo que me quejo es que me esperaba un poco más en el final.Muy recomendable, y más si te gustan los libros de época...
Another good story by Ms Woodiwiss. Not my favorite but one I still keep on my keeper shelf to enjoy again and again. Ashton Wingate loses his wife three years before and then one day his carriage collides with a woman on horseback who looks like his lost wife, Lierin. But there is another man who claims that she is not Lierin but Lenore.
4,5 hatta 4,75 :)Full 5 yıldız olmama sebebi, bir resamın masterpiece'ini yaparken boyasının bitmesi ve resminin yarım kalması gibi bir sonu olması kitabın.(?!?)Ama gene de: Pardon daa Kathleen E. Woodwiss yani boru değil.
Found that it was similar to other books of hers, which is understandable. I do enjoy her books, but I found that I had to plod through this one and it never seemed to end. There was no mystery as it was quite blatant what had happened.
absolutely fabulous a eondetful read have read about 20 times just love it
Nella biblioteca di ogni amante del romance, genere letterario che mescola lo storico con il romanzo d’amore, non possono mancare i libri di questa celebre scrittrice americana, morta a soli 68 anni nel 2007, che nella sua carriera ha scritto solamente 10 romanzi, con l’espresso desiderio di creare un genere che fosse gradito alle donne moderne mescolando personaggi affascinanti, ambientazioni storiche particolareggiate e appassionanti scene di sesso.Naturalmente c’è riuscita, e i suoi libri escono in continue ristampe da più di venti anni!In questo libro, stampato per la prima volta nel 1984, troviamo tutti questi elementi e molto di più.
La povera smemorata però non è convinta delle parole del suo salvatore e come se non bastasse un misterioso Malcolm Sinclair dichiara di essere il vero marito della donna che sarebbe appunto la gemella della defunta moglie di Ashton.La Woodwiss è una maestra del romance storico, inutile dire che si rimane rapiti dai personaggi e si finisce dentro alla storia anche se a mio parere rimane una delle meno riuscite di questa autrice.
No me ha gustado nada. Me ha parecido un T-R-U-Ñ-A-C-O. No lo recomiendo a menos que te gusten los personajes planos como una protagonista que cambia de sentimientos más rápido que Flash con diarrea, que hace que te digas what?!!! Me faltan páginas? O un maromo cuyo único atractivo es que trata bien a sus empleados. Si te gusta el lenguaje florido, relamido, excesivo y completamente irrelevante, éste es tu libro.
Realmente disfruté de este libro, aun cuando me tomó tanto tiempo terminarlo. La lectura en tercera persona no es lo mío, pero esta logró atraparme y adentrarme ena historia. ¡Definitivamente fue una montaña rusa de emociones!
An entertaining historical romance, much like those I read 30 years ago. The Wolf and the Dove is, in my opinion, Woodiwiss's best work. She and Lavyle Spencer are my favorites of this genre
Love this author she never disappoints. The twist and turns take you on a wild ride. Well worth the read.
I read it 6-8 year ago(2-3 gimnazjum/secondary school) and from what I remember I didn't loved it.
