https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77682.The_Treason_of_Isengard
Beowulf) being apparent in their genesis.-	Some fun tidbits: it appears that Gandalf’s fall in Moria and subsequent return were part of the plan from the beginning; since we still have no Arwen the initial plan points to Aragorn falling for Eowyn when he meets her in Theoden’s Golden Hall (great vindication for numerous fan fic writers out there no doubt); Boromir was at first going to be an unremitting traitor who didn’t heroically die at the hands of Orcs while trying to save Merry and Pippin, but who would actually have been a full rival of Aragorn as the two vied for control of Minas Tirith.Required reading if you have read the preceding volume and want to know how the story further grows and develops, but definitely not the point you want to start with the HoME series.
There is a final, definitive Lord of the Rings, and so it's enjoyable to see the early ideas and drafts heading toward the familiar story.The second volume of The History of the Lord of the Rings, The Treason of Isengard, is, however, a slightly more tedious read than The Return of the Shadow.
But once the drafts push on beyond the end of The Fellowship of the Ring, it is remarkable how quickly many of the major elements in the final story fall into place.

4.5*
The Treason of Isengard: The History of The Lord of the Rings, Part Two (The History of Middle-Earth #7), J.R.R. Tolkien, Christopher Tolkien
If not, I’d advice you to leave this be.It is really interesting to see many alternative on how the story could have gone.
Reading this, you start to understand how much work and thinking Tolkien put into his work.As a regular Tolkien fan, you know it already but reading here all the alternatives (and yet not all of them are even here) about the story, quotes or the multiple names in several drafts, that Christopher Tolkien presents to us.
Dense and certainly not for everyone, but fascinating and full of intriguing odds and ends about the creation of the Lord of the Rings series. Tolkien originally intended Aragorn marry Eowyn! It's amazing how late some very essential plot points (like Arwen) enter the story at all.
This is a continuation of the notes and drafts from Tolkien that his son Christopher meticulously researched and presents to fans of Lord of the Rings.
For non-fans this book would be extremely tedious and boring but for those of us curious enough to want to know more of the thoughts and insights from Professor Tolkien in formulating his great story it is a very interesting read.
Although not a complete rewrite with huge plot changes or character revisions this volume does include some interesting notes and insights into the changes of how the story might have been crafted.
This one didn't make as much progress through the text as the previous volume (Return of the Shadow).
There is a whole chapter on the various permutations of Tolkien's maps of the LOTR world, and even an appendix on runic writing.The most fascinating thing to me is the way Tolkien wrote.
As Tolkien was writing during WWII, and there was a paper shortage, Tolkien also was very thrifty and creative with his paper usage, often writing on the backs of meeting memos or calendar pages or student examination papers.
There was even a reference to writing between the lines of these examination papers.Much props to C.
This is the seventh book in the History of Middle Earth (HoME) series, and the second in the History of the Lord of the Rings.
It picks up where the last left off, in the mines of Moria.
It covers the development of the story up through the beginnings of Rohan.
I found the previous book, The Return of the Shadow, to be quite entertaining, watching the development of a story that actually led to publication.
I thought this second book would continue to be as entertaining, but I found it much drier than I had expected.
Christopher Tolkien has continued to do a good job at assembling all of his father's notes and drafts, and putting them together in some sort of semblance of a "narrative arc" where you can see the final story of The Lord of the Rings come together. Lots of fun little facts are revealed, and it's very interesting to see what could have been (with a little relief on occasion that he made different choices!).
A fascinating look into the creation of some of the most memorable characters from Lord of the Rings, especially Saruman and Treebeard. Also interesting to note how the story keeps changing and changing, plots gets devised and discarded, characters disappear and reappear and every time they stop somewhere new, everything changes into several possibilities. What a web of stories.
"The Treason of Isengard", was an interesting take on Sauraman's betrayal and eventual defeat by the Ents as well as the Battle of Helm's Deep. The editor's notes of Christopher Tolkien that explained how J.R.R Tolkien came up with the final form of these stories from "The Two Towers" were very informative. I'd recommend it to any fan of Middle Earth stories.
As with any book in the History of Middle Earth series, if you’re interested in reading early drafts of LotR to see how the story and characters changed from draft to draft, then this book is for you.How many times did Tolkien break up the fellowship before deciding on how it happened? So many times!I read this while following the Mythgard Academy seminar, which I highly recommend.
Bingo is dead! Long live Frodo!
For anyone who loves LOTR, and wants a deep dive into how the manuscript developed, this book is for you.
Apparenly Tolkien Sr. jumped ahead of himself with Frodo and Sam's storyline, writing about their Return of the King adventures in Cirith Ungol before he wrote about their Two Towers time spent with Gollum, Faramir, and Shelob, so that is what is included in this volume.This book was probably written for a slightly more hardcore Tolkien scholar than I am, and that is really saying something because I am certainly no casual fan.
The result is that episodes of the novel might appear multiple times and reappear later in Christopher Tolkien's telling of the writing of the novel if his father rewrote an episode in order to make his many changes.To recap what is presented in "The History of the Lord of the Rings, Part 1" describes J.R.R. Tolkien's opening attempt to write a sequel to "The Hobbit".
"The Treason of Isengard: The History of the Lord of the Rings, Part 2" shows the evolution of the hobbit character named Trotter as he changes into a man and becomes Aragorn.
This book does not start where "The Return of the Shadow" ended as there are again later drafts of previous chapters.
You can sense ideas about battle of Helm's Deep but it was to be fought at Isen fords, battle that was covered only briefly in the LOTR.And if Rohan is still vague Gondor doesn't exists beyond "there is a land in the south where stewards rule for absent king".Overall written (or edited) in same style as "The Return of the Shadow" this book covers further evolution of LOTR into what we came to love.
It's a bit jarring to read "Trotter" instead of "Strider", "Ingolf" instead of "Aragorn" and "Ondor" instead of "Gondor", but I think it's not just familiarity with the final product - the eventually chosen names are genuinely better.
Irish readers find it amusing that one of Treebeard's fellow elder Ents is named Finglas; this name is there in the very first draft.I noted with interest that all the early examples of runes - basically Gandalf's messages left at Bree and scrawled at Weathertop - use the good old-fashioned futhark, rather than what we came to know as the Cirth.
The second installment in Christopher Tolkien's History of The Lord of the Rings, this book brings the telling of the telling of the tale from where Tolkien halted in the writing process at the Mines of Moria chapters for a long span of time, through to the breaking of the fellowship and the arrival of Aragorn, Gimli, Legolas and Gandalf at Edoras, then called Eodoras.
The chronicles of the writing of this story are extremely interesting and revealing, especially the parts in which the drafts differ largely from the finished product.
This will be my 12-volume write-up of the entire series "The History of Middle Earth".--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------This series is ONLY for the hardcore Tolkien fanatic.
But the downside to this is that it isn't very fun to read.
You can only read yetanother version of Beren and Luthien so many times before you're tired of seeingthe miniscule changes from one version to the next.So, overall, I slogged through this over about a year.
I'd say it was worth itin the end for someone like me who loves Tolkien and his entire created worldof Arda (and Ea in general).
But I'll never re-read them.
I was intrigued to discover that originally Tolkien thought that Aragorn would marry Eowyn, hence the romance that began blossoming between the two.
That is one of many examples in which one can see that earlier decisions sometimes retain a shadow in the final work.
For example,only towards the end of this book do we see a decision to put a G in front of the name Ondor to become Gondor, a much nobler sounding name in my opinion.
See my review of the first volume in the series, The Return of the Shadow, for a fuller analysis.
It is wonderful to see the Professor at work as he struggles to figure out what really happened in the tale he is bringing forth.
Some ideas I am glad he abandoned, others I am sorry did not make it into print.
I find these volumes fascinating as he muses about what happens because I have a lot of the same wonderings about my own series I am working on.
The tale that unfolds must be brought to its readers correctly and we, as the conduit through which the story comes, must be faithful to how it truly was and not we think it was.
Surprisingly, this one didn't correspond to the planning behind The Two Towers- I had expected each of the three volumes in this part of the larger History of Middle-earth to match up with the three volumes in LOTR. This one was not quite as exciting or informative as the last, and in starting the next in the series, that one looks a little more engaging, too. We'll see.I wrote about the experience of reading all 12 of these volumes here: http://soundscryer.com/2011/06/13/chr... (part 1) and here: http://soundscryer.com/2011/12/02/chr... (part 2). Much more detail about the series in those two pieces.

The history of the writing of the Lord of the Rings continues from where the story left off in Return of the Shadow in front of Balin’s tomb; after some more backtracking the story continues on up to the point of the King of the Golden Hall chapter, and begins to take shape in earnest. It’s fascinating to see Tolkien’s creative process and the way in which he “discovers” the story as it forms. Once again I highly recommend listening along with the free Mythgard Academy course taught by Dr. Corey Olsen.
The second volume in The History of LOTR is no where near as interesting as the first.
The material in Return of the Shadow was quite a bit different from the end result.
It was great stuff.Unfortunately most of what's in Treason of Isengard is a lot closer to the finished product.
There is some good stuff.
Tolkien's various outlines are fantastic and watching the development of the story is still great.
But on the whole this reads like a rough draft of the finished product.
Great for Tolkien scholars but for even a die hard fan like myself it seemed a bit pointless at times.
Do not confuse this book as only the Two Towers part of the History of Lord of the Rings, it actually covers a lot of Fellowship as well. It is very interesting to see the process and rejected story lines. There is also some description on the evolution of the map and some background on dwarf runes. I wish the footnotes had been published on the bottom of the page instead of the back of the chapter - I got really tired of flipping pages.
Again, like the other 'History of Middle-Earth' books, this is for serious Tolkienites only. Having said that - this volume is of particular interest as it covers much of the time period during which the events of the Lord of the Rings took place, and so is of most immediate interest to fans of the trilogy.
