https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10776793-war-brides
Set in England during WWII, 'War Brides' tells the story of several women, from different walks of life.
This is the story of five such women, who formed an unlikely friendship and found strength in one another despite the dire circumstances.Evangeline was a young, beautiful American who married an Englishman to escape her own life.
Leaving her home without notice created a scandal and it isn't likely that she could return, even if she wanted to.Alice is the quintessential "good girl".
Unlike the other women that took center stage in this story, Elsie did not come from a life of privilege.
I'd wager most people are reading this because of an interest in wartime Britain, but the beginning of the novel had long, tiresome scenes set in New Orleans that seemed anachronistic to 1939.
Still, I read the whole thing because there were moments in the book that were well done and made me long for more.
But there wasn't enough to call the book successful.All it really did was make me long for a few episodes of Foyle's War - if you want really well done stories about a wartime British village, that's the ticket.
The author set you up to care about these 5 girls (although it is clear one of them is missing 50 years later) but each of their stories comes off fragmented and too piecey with too many holes.
We wanted to know the story of the women: Alice, Evangeline, Elsie, and Tanni...(and of course Frances).
I like wartime stories and this one had some good details- I never knew about the billeting or living in the country or the Auxi girls...or even about how there was a British spy working for the Nazis who sent over weather reports for the Blitz.
I will not be returning to the piece, but encourage readers to understand the issues I noted may not apply to more recent editions of the novel.Trifecta!
This was not a finished product and I can’t ignore how much these errors impacted my experience with War Brides.Continuity, or the lack there of, was another issue I noted in Helen Bryan’s work.
I suppose you could make a stretch by saying she eventually marries Richard Fairfax, but as the story is written in the present tense I can’t give much weight to the argument.
‘It can’t,’ I says to ‘er.
I came to suspect that the primary reason they took many of their actions was to satisfy the author's predetermined agenda rather than from any internal logic within the character as written.I won't even get into the moral blindness Bryan exhibits in the way she chooses to end this story; I wouldn't dream of spoiling that particular nasty surprise for you.
I see this as another example of the author having a particular need—in this case to have a "daring" or "shocking" ending—and carrying forward this urge without consulting the characters she has built and asking if they would do what these women do.But you can see what I mean about reviewing this kind of book.
I enjoyed the actual story, but the beginning and end just didn't fit.
But it was just weird.
Similarly, the end is the actual reunification of the women.
I wanted tears, fighting.....something that showed these women went through a war together.
The actual story of the women ended before the war was over, and it was really abrupt.
I wanted to know how they ended up where they were, how the marriages went...the good stuff.
The strongest point of this book was the historical setting.
I love historical fiction set in this time period and that part of the book didn't disappoint.
Historical fiction novel set in England during World War II. The story of five women, with different backgrounds, finding a common bond by supporting war efforts on the home front. They develop a friendship that will last a lifetime and their individual stories and histories make for a very good read.
It was almost as if the author decided she had written enough and needed to quickly wrap things up.Fast forward to 1995 when the characters weren't very interesting at all...as a plot device this could have worked so much better than it did.
This has to be the first time I've ever seen an author give away plot twists before the book begins.I did still give the book two stars because I didn't hate it...the characters had really started to be engaging and interesting and I wanted to know more/watch their stories unfold.
Bought this on the cheap for the Kindle, thinking it would be a good vacation read.
A good editor could have saved hours of my life by uninviting these duds from the story.
Then there's a bunch of back story about how the main characters came to live in proximity of each other in an English village.
Halfway into the book, there's some character and plot development -- the espionage/ twin smuggling stuff.
that went down in this book, but seriously, WTF?
The good: 1) I probably would have loved this book if I'd read it when I was fourteen.
This book had the makings of an interesting, character-driven look at life for the women of World War Two. Unfortunately, it was horrible.
Early on it had a lot of promise, but by the end I was skimming pages, desperate to finish this thing.The premise is that five women from different backgrounds find themselves drawn together in a small Sussex village during WW2.
The ending is horrible and makes no sense, with all the main cast ageing 50 years and reuniting (to the background noise of a news anchor who is narrating the VE Day celebrations, and who has probably the most jarringly un-English way of speaking of the lot) and acting completely out of character.
When she discovered the de Balfort secret, I thought more could have been made of it in terms of detail as I felt her exit was too sudden.(again it was down to me being an idealist rather than any error on Helen Bryan's part - obvious Frances's work in the war meant she could have been called off at any moment)The sense of loyalty and friendship between all the women was strong and obvious, although I would have loved a good old fashioned argument between Alice and Evangeline.The ending was great, although I got very upset at what happened as I was such a fan of Frances as a character.
I was really enjoying this book, it felt as though I was spending time with friends. Why did I rate the book so low then? There were a couple of reasons. First, it felt like there were far to many characters. It felt like there could have been better character development if only there were fewer characters to begin with.My biggest problem was that the ending felt far to rushed. It was almost as if the author got tired of writing. For the amount of time devoted to the back story, the ending fell flat.
The setting (a small English town), the Era (WWII) and 5 women of different backgrounds (and cultures) coming together out of necessity and circumstance sounded like something I would love.
However, the way that the book ended completely killed it for me.
The vast majority of the book was set in the WWII era.
The author utilized flashback (or flash-forward) device and an epilogue to wrap up the loose ends in the book.
Only in many ways it really doesn't feel that way, because Tanni and her friends would likely never know that their efforts were successful.
My problem with this book is that I liked the overall story, but was driven completely nuts by the writing style, character development, and timeline.
Regarding writing style, the author tries to recreate a Cockney accent in text, which was completely distracting since I often had to read a sentence three or four times before I could figure out what the character was trying to say.
It felt like she just got tired of writing all of a sudden, and gave up.Maybe I'm just a sucker for books about how British women coped during World War II, but I did enjoy the story and the glimpses into ordinary life at that time.
If you don't wish to read an insulting review, stop now!This author is horrible!
Everything is wrong!We go from the dumped Alice who never got an explanation from Richard to Evangeline, the supposedly privileged plantation daughter.
There was poor and butchered accents and stupid spies.
Tanni was the poor Jewish gal who was whisked away by Bruno suddenly on moment and the next she was in love and pregnant!
Creoles are people born of French, Spanish, African and sometimes Indian.
If Evangeline was indeed a plantation daughter, she wouldn't have known diddly shit about hunting, trapping or cooking either.
While laying this ground work, there was no effort to weave in (however seamlessly) the sudden addition of the mystery of Manfred (the spy sending the Germans weather reports to increase the effectiveness of their bombing campaigns.
We are beginning to figure out what a German spy has to do with the group of ladies specifically when we come back to the 50th anniversary celebrations only to discover that it is no longer a group of 5 but 4, with one of the women having gone missing before the war ended.
On the one hand, I had a hard time putting it down.
On the other hand, the ending had parts that were completely unrealistic, and one of the themes in the story was a bit hard to digest.
HOWEVER -- the characters stayed with me past closing the book, and I was genuinely surprised and delighted with a couple of the endings, even if some would say they were too neatly tied up.
I actually got into the characters and their lives and maybe it was just the right time for me to read this sort of thing, but I enjoyed it.
War Brides took me to England during WWII.
Frances, a debutant sent to the country to stay out of trouble.Tanni, an Austrian Jew whose arrange marriage happens moments before fleeing to England with her husband.
Alice the Vicar's daughter marries an American soldier near the end of the war.
The story begins and ends in 1995 at the 50th Anniversary of VE day when four of the war brides are reunited.
A lover of historical fiction it is always fun to experience the lives of those in far away places through the eyes of a well-written book like War Brides.
So when I saw the delightlful cover of War Brides I just had to read it immediately!There was a bit of fanciful nonsense in the beginning of this book that made me wonder if it was going to turn out to be some kind ofDanielle Steele,True Blood,Twilight nonsense.
There are very interesting back stories about each of these characters.
There is an espionage story too that involves a local traitor whose actions cause more heartache.The book ends with the ladies reunitng at the 50th Anniversary of the war's end in 1995.They bring about a bit of a wacky close to the above story in my humble opinion and while very satisfying made me have to"suspend reality" like in the beginning of the book.All in all of very good read.
But you know, growing up with respectable (nudge, nudge) grandparents, I didn't realize this happened.
And in this wonderful story of sisterhood, friendship, and air raids, you get to hear lots of juicy details about the great sins of our foremothers--and their great heroics as well.
War Brides tells the story of 5 young women coming into their own during the start of WWII.
I love WWII stories, all those details of home life, wartime in England; it reminds me of my grandparents telling me their own stories about those times.
For me, the issue with this book comes after the main conflict has been resolved.
Another slight issue with this novel is the lack of relationship development.
These women start off as complete strangers at the start of the book, but are close enough to have a collective mission at the end.
For most authors, this is when you would see the characters grow and explore how the women became close.
In this novel, it seems like the relationships develop more out of convenience than any shared experiences or interests.
It's just unfortunate that the book can't keep up that development or momentum.
I read about 70 pages and couldn't take it anymore. I wasn't going to waste my time anymore. It's about 470 pages long. Terrible writing, historical events not accurate and too much jumping around and not explaining details before moving on with story. I do not recommend!
For 75% of the book, I was casually reading, finding out about these five, dramatically different women.
The thing is about War Brides, is that the common causes were never fully explored, and, quite frankly - lazily explained in the clipped ending.SPOILER!Can we please talk about how Frances figures out about Hugo, yet the chapter abruptly ends?!
The war just ends, the tunnel leads no where...but these women just continue on without exploring other possibilities.
I wanted to know more because we forced to be so invested with these women from the beginning.
I cannot understand why this has a 4.5 star aggregate on Amazon!
The writing in the beginning is a series of mean-spirited infodumps, all of them poorly constructed.
Each introductory section is told from the POV of one of the group of female leads or those who knew them.
But the POV voices don't differ in the least.
The old ladies in a nursing home in New Orleans sound exactly like the Jewish woman on a plane from Israel who sounds exactly like the young English vicar's daughter.
The book feels less like a novel and more like a series of gossip tales.
Pros of this book: interesting reading about World War II, Hitler, Germans, and a glimpse into what it was like for the people who weren't fighting the war, just trying to live through it.
I get that the author has to explain the back story behind how all these women meet and become friends, but I was struggling to stay interested in the beginning.
Not that their individual stories weren't interesting...but the fact that the author started out with a small, present-day blurb about each of the women, then switched to history, then back to present-day - I had a hard time keeping everyone straight.
Es un libro muy entretenido. A mí siempre me han gustado mucho los libros que tratan de la vida de los ingleses en la II Guerra Mundial, pero me ha parecido que le ha faltado profundizar en varias de las historias, tengo la sensación de que las cosas ocurren un poco atropelladamente.
From the accents of some of the characters to the gratiuitous inclusion of some of the truly terrible things that happened in World War II, this book manages to hit everything.
A chapter gets going, there's a build-up to something, then it ends abruptly, and we find out what happened when two characters talk about it in a later chapter.
Not that I had much to begin with, because it's hard to find a character with any depth in this novel.In all seriousness, if you are a World War II buff, do not read this book.
This is easily the worst book I've read all year.
War Brides tells the story of five young women sent off to the tiny town of Crowmarsh Priors in southeastern England during the Blitz of WWII.
And the whole thing is wrapped up in the mystery of who survives the war, who doesn't, and why?This story is eminently readable and Helen Bryan has created some excellent characters.
They were so vibrant that I felt like I was watching PBS (which is where a story like this would inevitably have to be shown).My primary criticism is that Ms. Bryan didn't go far enough with the drama.
It is, however, a cracking story.It is the story of five women from very different walks of life spending the war in the Sussex village of Crowhurst Priors and at first, especially after looking at the cover, this seems very much like a common or garden WWII saga.
In some ways it is, but there is a lot more meat to the story which spans New Orleans to Sussex to Poland, bringing together these very different women who are all pulling together “for the duration”.
Libro que narra la historia de cinco mujeres, totalmente diferentes entre sí, y como hacen frente a la lucha diaria por la vida en un país en guerra al borde de la invasión, como era Inglaterra durante el blitzkrieg:- Alice, la modosa hija del predicador.- Evangeline, la arribista americana, con un gran secreto- Frances, la escandalosa joven que sólo piensa en divertirse- Elsie, la adolescente de barrio obrero londinense, a la que han evacuado al campo - Tannie, joven judía de origen austriaco que lucha por recuperar a su familiaCada una con su propia historia, y que a pesar de sus muchas diferencias, trabajan unidas en el día a día.Empezó muy bien, y me enganchó enseguida, pero al final me da la sensación de que quiere abarcar tantas historias que no acaba ninguna.
