https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40940121-bridge-to-terabithia
When I read this in fourth grade, I loved it because it was enchanting, and reminded me very much of 'secret hideouts' I made with friends at the same age.
And they do understand and can deal with hard topics in many ways better than us adults, who have learned to choke back the tears instead of actually crying.
I may choke back tears now, but when I was 10, I went to my secret hideouts to cry and deal with things in my own way, in my own world, just like Leslie and Jesse do in Terabithia.
Maybe it’s a children’s book and i’m not used to the shorter pace, but it felt like a lot more needed to be fleshed out.
It all just happened very quickly and it was hard to gauge how much time was actually passing, and it felt like the characters and plot were progressing faster than they probably actually were.I really need to pick up more children’s classics because reading a book written and presumably set in the 70s was so captivating!
There were references to Jess having anxiety in this and i’m glad it wasn’t portrayed as something like HE NEEDS TO MAN UP!
Oh I loved this book too! Its so sweet, and sad and wonderful. I cried. My teacher read it out loud in my 5th grade class and when the character died, I turned to the little boy next to me , and said, "That's not true is it?" and he looked at me with tears in his eyes and nodded. It was probably one of the first mature interactions I ever had with an "icky" boy.
The movie is far more worth it.
It was part of what I now consider to be my fourth grade teacher's reign of terror - she read Where the Red Fern Grows and Bridge to Terabithia out loud to us (and those are just the books I was in her class for), and I seriously think she did it for the days when, inevitably, the entire class would spend the afternoon weeping at our desks.That said, though - and it needed to be said - this is a good book; it was so engaging to me at that age that I got it from the library after the first day she read it to us and finished it by myself later that night.
What I can tell you is that the kids here talk and think in a very real and honest way, so I don't think that can be a good reason to ban this book.This is a truly great novel about growing, about maturing, about the impossibility of controlling life and that you have to treasure each moment that you are living since you never know when something will change forever.Also, you won't understand the reason for the title of this book until you read it, but please, don't do any research or investigation, since the impact of the story depends of that you don't know anything ahead.This is a short book, just read it and it will live in your heart forever.
Even when I was 12, I thought this was a crap book.What's with all the hype? This was so fucking boring. I read this in 6th grade, during a time when I was prone to sobbing at anything. We watched Ben Hur in class and I cried like a baby. I don't even remember why. We read Where the Red Fern Grows aloud in class and I was sobbing in front of everyone. I didn't shed a single fucking tear for this book.
Okay, so I read this YEARS ago.
I think this is about my 3rd reread, which proves this book is timeless.
God ain't gonna send any little girls to hell.I don't know why.
I noticed other things, being an adult reading this, that I wouldn't have picked up on originally.
+ When the teacher reads out Leslie's essay she says "this is an unusual hobby for a girl"...which sort of tainted the chapter for me.
+ The whole Ms. Edmunds taking Jess to the city for the day was...weird.
And if a book can still be timeless through all this?
I remember growing my hair out and listening to Iron Maiden, experimenting with image, stripping away those last external indicators of child-like innocence and trying to be more "grown up." Then I remember crying in my closet near the end of this book.
I still listen to Iron Maiden, but I don't wear the oversized metal shirts like I used to, and my hair is cut short most of the time.
I'm a different person now, at least that's what I told myself when I started reading this book again a few years ago.
I don't see how a middle grade book can do this to somebody.
Foreshadowing, character development, symbolism, and a clear connected thread and purpose are present throughout the whole story as Jess makes friends with the new girl Leslie, learns important lessons from her that help him to become more confident, and then is forced to say goodbye when she dies entering their imaginary land of Terabithia.
Someone unfamiliar with this book may think that these elements are too complex for younger readers; however, Paterson presents them expertly to a younger audience while engaging the students with a character they can relate to, Jess.
Ti ricordi di quando eravamo re e regina del regno oltre il fiume? Cos'è Terabithia? Perché i bambini la cercano costantemente nei loro ardenti sogni d'avventura?Forse un luogo nella quale paura e rabbia non hanno spazio, ove si è eroi per sempre e la solitudine diventa una sbiadita ombra di ricordi oramai lontani.E quando la realtà bussa alle porte del nostro rifugio per presentare il conto dei tanti miracoli concessi, si giunge alla conclusione che Terabithia non morirà.Cresce chi non dimenticherà Terabithia nel momento in cui le tenebre ne abbracceranno ogni anfratto.
I gave this book five stars, here's why:It is absolutely incredible that a writer can invent a character, and bring him to life so convincingly that we find some of our deepest emotions aroused when we read black words on a white page.
I was amazed at how deeply I felt towards some the characters in this book...fictional characters!Character development is absolutely masterful in Bridge to Terabithia.
It feels good to read him - especially within the last fifty pages.
Janice Avery (a minor character) reveals to her friends that her father beats her - "the kind of beating they send you to jail for" says Leslie.
Jesse uses art to escape his life, and it can't be a coincidence she died during his trip to an art museum.
But the manner of death is too linked to Jesse in a way that blames him for comfort, and that might be part of the trauma many kids feel when they read the book.
4. The death in general.Reading it now, it's odd that for a book that might help kids deal with loss, how little of it actually is designed to do so.
I know one or two of my kids read it, but it was one of the rare books that I didn't at least skim.
(If you don't know how the book ends, don't read this spoiler.) (view spoiler)[When I was 10 & in fifth grade, my father died.
(hide spoiler)] Her characterization was wonderful & the ending is haunting.My edition had an interview with Paterson & her son, David, who apparently illustrated some editions & had dealt with making this into a movie.
A pesar de haber conocido la historia a través de esa película con Josh Hutcherson, fue un libro que disfrute demasiado.
Es increíble el desarrollo de Jesse a partir de que conoce a Leslie y me conmueve d runa manera u otra lo que el amor inocente puede hacer y como la vida te puede quitar todo en un segundo.Por alguna razón me recordó mucho a Looking for Alaska y no se si será cierto que se parecen o que pero vi muchas similitudes y eso me encanto.Puedo verme releyendo este libro porque fue increíble.
It's just that I was asked twice already about the meaning of the title of the book that I reviewed so it is becoming part of my psyche to always ask myself the meaning of the title after reading the book especially if the reason is not clear or obvious.The story, set in a small town in the US, is about two lonely 10 year olds, Jesse Aarons and Leslie Burke who find each other's company enjoyable because they are different from the rest of the grade schoolers.
So, their friendship starts with jealousy (because Leslie runs faster than Jesse) and hate but they end up as king and queen of Leslie's make believe world of Terabithia.Sweet story.
Just themselves.Jess knew; but still, but still, at the bus stop he looked up, half expecting to see her running up across the field.He could hear the sounds of the whispers but not the words.
Not that he wanted to hear the words.It was up to him to pay back to the world in beauty and caring what Leslie had loaned him in vision and strength.
I just re-read the book before watching the movie.
I'm sure I read it as a kid, but I'm reviewing this as an adult.This book is sad.
The characters are innocent and fun, and the world they create with their minds is playful.
It seems that the point of the book is the tragedy, to have a boy's friend die.
I'd rather spend my time reading something a little more up-beat.I've said this before, I don't at all mind characters dying, and I love certain tragedies.
This one is just a little too simple to really fire me up, and it just succeeds in making me depressed.
I'm quite a content, optimistic kind of person so I am emotionally driven - very much so.
Mainly to try and convey the fact that this novel right here is one of the few to have rocked me emotionally.
In fact the film is a fairly strong adaptation of this sad, beautiful teardrop of a book.Let me head off on another tangent.
Conclusions are almost my favourite part of any story, save for the fact that it means the book is over and you're left back in reality.
However, for this book the conclusion was terrible, shocking, unacceptable.
When I read this in 5th grade, I really liked it for the first 75% of the story.
Jess was kind of a moron, but Leslie was really cool, and I found myself wishing I had a friend who could make up great stories and imaginary worlds in our secret fort in the woods.
And then Katherine Paterson decided to smack me upside the head with the cold, dead fish of Reality.
(I'm not sure how that metaphor was supposed to work, but I'm going with it because that's honestly how it felt)Leslie DIED?!?!
Read for: 5th grade English
I love this book!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! At the end, when the girl dies, it's so sad!! I read it during class and fought back tears the entire time. The words are so perfect, so moving, it's like they reach out and yank you into the story.
Of course I read this as a kid, but the only thing that stayed with me was Terabithia; the entire mundane plot (that is, 95% of the book) entirely vanished from my memory.The class elements went right over my head as a kid, which is strange because they're so important to the book.
Jess is forever managing people -- to avoid getting beaten up by other kids, to avoid being punished by parents and teachers, to carve out a little time and privacy.
My chief problem with this book is that Jess actually is indirectly responsible for Leslie's death, and that's too heavy a responsibility to put on a kid.
But just then we helplessly watch the abrupt unfair end of that beautiful blooming, a real nip in the bud (Sorry spoilers!).
This book is about those wonderful nascent days of childhood, where everything is impossible and beautiful.
Not for a second will this book would feel like it’s geared toward children.
This book will make you cry, end of.
Not at the inevitable loss, but at what could have been.Additional; some books are pure magic where every word is made up of joy, and this is one of them.
Pure magic this book is.
Janusz Korczak Medal (Poland) 1981Silver Pencil Award (Netherlands) 1981 Newbery Medal 1978 ALA Notable Children's Books 1977School Library Journal Best Book of 1977Lewis Carroll Shelf Award, 1978Le Grand Prix des Jeunes Lecturs (France), 19861986 Colorado Blue Spruce Young Adult Book AwardNote also that on the American Library Association Reading List: Bridge to Terabithia (along with Tuck Everlasting) is one of six books recommended for 9-12 year-old children.
This is especially heartening since “the novel's content has been the frequent target of censors and appears at number nine on The American Library Association list of the 100 Most Frequently Challenged Books for the decade 1990–2000.” (Wikipedia)Apparently, the banning, which occurred after year 2000 as well, was for offensive language, sexual content and Occult/Satanism.
Audiobook reread.I read this is 5th grade and the story has stuck with me all of these years. For me its the quintessential book about the innocence of childhood, but also about the moment when you realize you cannot stay in that innocence bubble forever, and how hard that is. I cannot wait to share this story with my kids.
I read this book during my Children's Literature class in college. It's an excellent book.
Hearing the story now 26 years later and knowing what to expect, I still got teary-eyed.The audio version contains an interview with the author and her son, which I found quite interesting.
Apparently, though, Katherine Paterson wrote this book based upon the experiences of her own son, who at 8 years old, lost his childhood best friend to a tragic accident (she was struck by lightning -- how awful).
Learning that Paterson wrote this story in part to help her son grieve and make sense of such a painful loss made the story all the more touching to me somehow.
Apparently I have been living under a rock my entire life because I had never even heard of Bridge to Terabithia before a friend of mine brought it up in conversation one day.
I wish I had taken a picture of the horrified look on her face that screamed: BRIDGE TO TERABITHIA IS A SOUL CRUSHER.
Again, I had been under the impression it was a fantasy book filled with a mysterious land called Terabithia and that I would soon be immersed in a world I had yet to discover.
Bridge to Terabithia is wonderful and beautiful and all of the great imaginative things that children should experience as they grow up.
It is realistic and gritty and a true look at all that is hardship in a small town and when attending a small school.
This book is written so well that you feel like you are there watching it unfold as you read.
The movie definitely did this book justice and I cried like a baby even when I knew what was going to happen.
Touchingly wonderful.Check out my blog to see Reviews of Book and Movies, and check out some Recipes!
