https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4600.Moo_Baa_La_La_La_
Make the sounds that you are supposed to make! Reminded me of a kind of Animal Farm for small children - but with no political message. Sandra Boynton always comes through with fun books that teach important lessons.
A moving narrative that highlights the circle of life in understandable, free-market terms while placing a sunnier patina on the darker side of the meat and poultry industry.
I read this like the Lady GaGa refrain. It fits perfectly.
A fun little story about animal noises.
However, this Boynton book stands out enough from the already-exalted pack that I think it’s worth a review.Basically it’s a poem of animals and the sounds they make.
Really!Like all Boynton books, it’s rhythmic so my son enjoys the narrative, and he can participate in the reading by supplying the animal sounds as we go.
The final page of the book has all the animals together, and he spends the most time on this page pointing out the various animals and making their corresponding noises.If nothing else, this book is worth checking out just to listen to the other adults in your life act out the crazy animal sounds.
Very very cute. I love Sandra Boynton.
My son's favorite book so far.
If Everly tries to tell me that singing pigs say "Oink" instead of "La la la" we're going to have a serious talk.
Outstanding! I could not put this book down.
Love. One of my favorites.
This is her absolute favourite book right now. She giggles all the way through it. I have the whole thing memorized.
Nothing has made my baby smile and laugh so far as much as this book.
Now that Charlotte's a little bit older (15 months at the time of this writing) she still loves the book, and has taken to finishing the sentences as we read along (or recite from memory).Our version is a 5 inch square board book.
This works very well, making it simple for young eyes to pick out the animals and point to them happily and proudly.My first impressions of this, and most other books by Sandra Boynton, were actually pretty poor.
I read this book aloud several times a day to babies and toddlers!
And I'm getting better giving classes (yes classes?!) to drooling, curious babes, some who can't even sit up on their own.
You'd be amazed how under 1 year olds can and will sit in a circle and pay attention and interact.
La, la, la, says three singing pigs.
And little dogs say Ruff, Ruff, Ruff!
Other dogs say BOW, WOW, WOW, and cats and kittens say Meow.
It's still cute to make weird noises with babies, and to talk about talking-"It's quiet now-what do YOU say?"
Random silliness.
fun to sing and read!
Very funny that this book was
This book has cute illustrations and introduces kids to animals and the sounds that they make.Sturdy and fun.
Reread 11-15-14Reread 3-31-15Reread often
A true masterpiece. It warms my heart with joy.
Illuminating. This classic from the Boynton canon has furthered my studies of animal sounds immensely. -M
So Licy and I were at Indigo and we saw this book and thought it was pretty interesting!
First thought, pigs definetly do not say "la la la".
And of course, our inner child HAD to figure out why this was happening.
I really loved the pictures and how well the book's storyline was seamless.
You may think this is just a children's picture book, but the ending REALLY got us.
Everyone's got their own answers and that's what makes this book so intriguing.This book was way more than we expected, and really eye opening.
Definetly worth the read!
This is a wonderful picture book filled with animals and sounds the reader makes out loud when reading to a child. There is a twist in the beginning when the author tells us that pigs sing la la la instead of saying oink! The story goes through quite a few different animals which make their individual noises and then the animals ask the reader what kind of sound they make. Extremely interactive and a wonderful read-aloud!
My son absolutely loves this book. He is 1.5 years and can make the sounds of most of the animals. When he is looking for this book he will keep saying "la la la" until he finds it. One of my all time favourite Boynton books!
A cow says moo, a sheep says baa, three singing pigs say la la la... oh god I think I can recite this book from memory. It is cute though for a toddler and not so mind numbing as books for this age tend to be,
This is one of Sandra Boynton's shorter stories, but it's still really cute. I like that she has a bit of a sense of humor and my daughter always smiles at the end when the author asks "What do you say?" (as in what noise does a baby make).
We love Sandra Boynton and this was no exception. Adorable illustrations paired along side a cute story about animals, it's a big favorite for all my kids, but especially my 3 yr old twins. We also love books that rhyme, so that was an added plus for us. Great book.
I like all those books which teach you different sounds. It will be fun to read to your kid (Y) Here... Have a look https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uFaVo...
Boynton is a master of serious silliness. This adorable little board book is a favorite "again! again!" book to read with little ones.
Moo Baa La la la introduces children to animal sounds including 8 different animals.
Moo Baa La la la is effective in its characters by informing readers of specific animal sounds and discussing a variety of species that are normally not clumped together, such as cats and rhinoceroses.
Moo Baa La la la also exhibits specific language including rhyme schemes in order to create entertainment among young readers.
The illustrations in Moo Baa La la la are also appealing and informative by scaling animals according to their size.
Overall Moo Baa La la la is appealing to readers for its informative content, entertaining language and accurate illustrations.
