https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32513.Shakespeare_s_Christmas
They have disturbing and dark things happen in the crimes, but they seem to be brushed over a bit.
It's like the books are trying to tackle big issues without being willing to get as dark as these issues would really take to be meaningful to the reader.
There is a definite feeling of separation between the darkness and the reader.
It could be because the whole thing is narrated by Lily, who has lost touch with feeling much of anything since her victimization.
But, I would rather read books that either stay away from things like rape, torture, child abuse, and racial hate-crimes than to read them in a way that glosses over them quickly.
Since Charlaine Harris came out with this series years ago I had been circling around giving them a try.
So since I’m using my ‘Christmas book read’ to sample a few different series, I thought I would try this one.
I didn’t like the heroine very much, but it may have been more because of the audio reader.
Her voice was kinda flat and didn’t give Lily a lot of personality.
So basically, not my cup of tea, but I will probably try other books by this author.
I liked her True Blood in the beginning...so there’s that.
Lily Bard is a complex character and it seems like with each book you get to find out more about her. In this book, she returns to her hometown to attend her sister's wedding. While it was nice to see Lily's interactions with family members and friends, the mystery itself was pretty flimsy. Thankfully this was a quick read but even still it was hard to focus. Definitely not one of the author's best, but I will stick with the series because I do like the main character.
Of course there is a mystery thrown in when she arrives, to be solved amidst family dramas and wedding plans, Jack popping into town to stir up her loins, and Lily again getting uptight and moody if anyone tries to act normal around her.The parents and sister don't stand out too much, but they were enjoyable written.
This is likely the best mystery of the Lily Bard series, where Lily actually has to snoop a bit on purpose.
The ending felt too abrupt to me, and I don't get how she couldn't look back at all when she eagerly left her family and hometown.
I didn't even look for the author's name until I was finishing chapter 3, so imagine my surprise when I learned it was Sookie Stackhouse's Charlaine Harris.
I'd read the entire Sookie series - in order - and I loved it.The three things the Lily Bard series and the Sookie Stackhouse series have in common are really interesting main characters, well-written stories, and my determination to collect every book in the series.Turns out, though, that this book is 3rd in the series (I started to get suspicious around that same chapter 3), so I'm already reading them out of order.This book is way darker than the Sookie books, and it features so many characters that I was debating about making a list.
But the main character is so fascinating that I have to read more.
Like many people, Lily is reluctant to return home to face the family.
A very typical introvert, she finds that it doesn’t have to be quite as difficult as she envisioned it—her family will meet her half-way if she makes an effort.One thing that did improve this book was that Lily was out of her regular routine—so although she takes on some cleaning tasks (as part of her “investigation” of what’s going on in her home-town), the reader isn’t subjected to as many detailed scenes of her cleaning routine.
Another good mystery, although the story got a little convoluted & confusing at a couple of points. May have been my fault for not following all the character names closely enough, but there were a fair few. Lily goes back to her home town, so she knows everyone & seems to meet half of them. This has added depth to Lily's character & I like her more with each page. Very admirable lady. On to the next!
My favorite so far in this series! It is actually easy to like Lily in this book as she returns home for her sister's wedding and to reconcile with her family.
Better than the second book. Less disturbing somehow. Lily goes home for Christmas. Her relationship with Jack is less troublesome, more real. Lily is still cantankerous as hell, but seeing her at home makes this easier to understand. I'm starting to know Lily better now.
I've enjoyed every one of Charlaine Harris' 'Shakespeare' mysteries.
If you're expecting anything like her 'Dead' series...don't.
But if you like a gritty mystery with a kick-ass heroine with a dark past...you'd be doing yourself a favor to try this series out.
These were originally written in the 90s, but have been reprinted in the last couple of years.Lily has to return to her hometown after all this time.
Lily isn't doing too badly back home.
All Lily really wanted was a quiet Christmas!Like I said, I've read the whole Shakespeare series and only wish there were more.
What woman who's been through what Lily Bard has been through would find herself attracted to a physically aggressive man like Jack?
And if Jack is the person he's supposed to be - a man who knows what Lily Bard has been through - why is always manhandling her in such a way that she has remind him not to?The premise for this book was better than the previous two, but the disjointed writing and horrible characters (NO person in her family understood and took her side?!) ruined this.
I've gotten very attached to Lily Bard. It was interesting this time around to see her outside of the Shakespeare setting and interacting with her family. (view spoiler)[ Can't say I'm very fond of her new bro-in-law after their last conversation. What a tool. And after she cleaned his house (albeit with ulterior motives) for him too. (hide spoiler)] I like how Lily, even though there seems to be a murder every time she turns around, has gradually started to enjoy life again. She's beginning to
I've gotten very attached to Lily Bard.
It was interesting this time around to see her outside of the Shakespeare setting and interacting with her family.
(view spoiler)[ Can't say I'm very fond of her new bro-in-law after their last conversation.
(hide spoiler)] I like how Lily, even though there seems to be a murder every time she turns around, has gradually started to enjoy life again.
These are not cozy mysteries.
But she doesn't revel in it either.I don't think I've ever read so many mysteries in such a short period of time.
This was my first book in the Lily Bard series.
I was looking for Christmas books so read this out of order.
I immediately downloaded and read books 1 and 2 in the series next.
The main character is a woman who had been brutally attacked in the past and goes on to learn self defense and get very strong.
I like the characters.
These books move very quickly.
I usually read cozies and this is a bit more graphic than a cozy but a great series.
I'll read the rest.
Now this one was quite a bit better than book #2 Shakespeare's Champion and I even liked the plot and mystery more than book # 1 Shakespeare's Landlord.Lily's Sister is getting married and Lily needs to go home to participate in all the pre-wedding celebrations because she is the maid of honor.Since the rape/torture that happened to her over seven years ago, Lily has remained largely apart from her family.
Lily is reluctantly drawn into Jack's investigation even while she and Jack are falling in love and he manages to charm her family.This book had a much better flow and feel than the previous book.
While Lily is definitely not the most affable of heroines and some readers may find her directness curt and discourteous, to me she is refreshing, original and admirable.
Jack and Lily’s romance is going strong and there are several entertaining scenes with the two of them trying to define their relationship and its future direction.
Jack can charm the pants off anyone and the reactions of the various Bard family members to his presence are priceless.
The mystery involves a killer’s attempts to cover up a kidnapping and once again the reader follows Lily as she uncovers the clues and confronts the culprit.

Lily Bard is much darker than Sookie Stackhouse.
I've know that, I figured it out the first few books.
If you are, this might not be the best book for you.I have one large issue with this installment ...
All the Lily Bard mysteries are quick reads.
But mostly the mystery stretches out throughout the book.
In this one, there was essentially no "lead" or alley to chase until the last ten pages.
So through 3/4 of the book nothing happened.
Not plot hooks, no lead in, and I just felt the whole "Jack is here" part of it all seemed incredibly forced on Harris' part.
In this book Lily leaves Shakespeare to go back to her home town for her sister's wedding.
(view spoiler)[ Her boyfriend Jack is also there investigating a case about a missing girl who was taken as a baby.
Lily suspects her sister's fiance's daughter is the missing little girl.
The father is a pedophile and wanted a little girl.
Once the mother finds out that Eve is not hers and tries to tell Jack the father kills her, and the doctor and nurse who did the blood test on Eve. Of course Lily saves the day and solves the case.
The book takes place out of Shakespeare and in Lily's hometown of Bartley, which it was nice to learn more about her family and other background info.
I hope by the end of the series, she'll be even closer to fully healing.
Lily's relationship with Jack is interesting and weird, but they're still figuring things out, and have similar feelings towards committment it seems.
The mystery could have been stretched into a longer book and not wrapped up so quickly, but it didn't bother me very much.
In the end, it was a fast and easy story, and a good but not great third book in the Lily Bard series.
This was a perfect-for-me holiday read. Murder and mystery as written by Charlaine Harris. Yep, perfect. And it's still good. Above was written 23 Dec 2008. Read it again as a holiday favorite.
I started reading book 5 and realized I had missed one somehow.
I stopped reading five and went back to get this one.This was just a par for the course Lily Bard with the exception of our getting to meet her family.
I loved visiting her hometown and even something as silly as imagining her in all the fancy clothes associated with being in a wedding party was a super-fun diversion.
She is usually in workout clothes or jeans.
That's Lily, though, so that's ok.I'm glad to see she and Jack developing.
I can't wait to dive back into book five.
This is her third Lily Bard book, I don't think there are any others.
Lily is going back home for the holidays, her sister is getting married and she is a bridesmaid.
He thinks there is a connection between the killings and a case he is working on, the disappearance of a baby 8 years ago.
Out of the three girls he has targeted as possibly being the missing girl, one of them is the daughter of her sister's fiancé.
They need to figure out what is going on, quick, before she possibly marries the wrong guy.
This was my first time reading a book from the Lily Bard series and I was surprised at how good it was.
This book certainly wasn't as cute or cozy as this author's Aurora Teagarden series, as the main character has some darkness in her past (she was raped), and there is some blood in the descriptions of the murder scenes, but I liked that there was bit more of an edge and an honesty to the events of the story.
The audiobook narration was also very good, and really hooked me on the story from the start.
She is willing to see that opening yourself up to others and their feelings SOME times does not end in pain, and is trying, once more.Lily went to be in her little sister's wedding, and helped Jack solve a missing child case that transformed into a multiple murder case as well.
It kept you guessing as to who the missing child was, right up until the end.
She hangs around some kids, and seems to connect with them, even though she's convinced herself she doesn't like them much.All in all, a damn good read.
Shakespeare's Christmas During the holidays I like to read books centered around the season.
Unfortunately that is becoming more and more difficult to do unless one really likes trite, cozy mysteries or steamy holiday romance novels.
Since I have previously read all of the Sookie Stackhouse books by Charlaine Harris, I decided to give Shakespeare's Christmas a try.
Yes, it is a cozy mystery and yes it is written in exactly the same style as all other Harris books.
Her books are written simply and and there will be NO surprise twists at the end.

Better than the second one by far, but still lacking in the mystery department.
She did do some actual investigating in this one, which was nice, and the case was much darker than a guy being killed over...I completely why the landlord was killed in the first book.
Ohhh, right - made the wrong comment on the wrong day to the wrong person, and they freaked.
Right, well, in that case, this mystery was world's darker.Starting to get tired of the constant mentions of shaving, but it could be much, much worse, so I'm just gonna quit here for now and read something else before finishing the series.
Another great entry in the Lily Bard Mystery series. In this one, Lily travels home during the holidays to be a bridesmaid in her sister's wedding, and of course trouble follows her... as does her sexy new boyfriend Jack! ;) We learn a bit more about Lily's background in this one as she stays with her family during her homecoming. This is really the first time she's been home since the incident which scarred her both physically and emotionally.I'm looking forward to reading more of this series!

Kind of interesting. What happens where someone who left home because of neaucoup scandal when she was raped has to go back home when her sister gets married. Plus, boyfriend Jack is working on a case about a girl who was snatched and there are three possible girls in Lily's home town of Bartley who could be it and one of them is her future brother-in-law's daughter. Another belongs to the local minister. And, of course, once Lily and Jack show up the bodies start falling. But, oooooooh, the tension in that household could be cut with a knife.
