https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/953199.A_Pelican_at_Blandings
I always expect P.G. Wodehouse to buck me up with his humor, but this one lacked the funny.It's typically Wodehousian in its convoluted plot, but the writing feels dull.
I have a tendency to blame the author's mounting years, after all he was about 88 when he wrote this, however he did go on to write another half dozen or so novels, and the one or two I've read were much better than this.No, the problem is that this feels more like one of his early works where romance tended to trump comedy.
Ah well, I still have about 30 or 40 more Wodehouses to read.
Many familiar characters return including the Earl, his stern sister Lady Constance, his brother Galahad "Gally" Threepwood, and the irascible Alaric Pendlebury-Davenport aka the Duke of Dunstable.
The Earl of Emsworth is locked out of Blandings in the small hours and has to enter, via the window of the garden suite, and so disturbs an unimpressed Alaric, Duke of Dunstable.
A Pelican at Blandings was the last full length novel in the Blandings series to be fully completed by P.G. Wodehouse.
He finished the series on a real high.4/5A Pelican at Blandings by P.G. Wodehouse
A hoot! Wodehouse, the consummate juggler, throws his zany balls into the air, makes them do acrobatics, and then catches them all in a grand finale. The man should write musical comedies."Those comfortably padded lunatic asylums which are known, euphemistically, as the stately homes of England."~Virginia Woolf.
I almost put my rating as three stars but then I realised that I did actually enjoy this book a great deal and the only way I could criticise it is in comparison with Wodehouse's earlier books.
The dialogue still fizzes, though, particularly when one of the dias who is logueing is Galahad Threepwood.If you're only going to read one Wodehouse novel, my advice to you would be to pick one of the earlier ones, but quite frankly, if you're the sort of person who would only read one Wodehouse novel then I don't think we'd get along anyway.
Nigel Lambert does a very good job narrating this Blandings Castle entry. Plus it has a lot of Galahad :)
Are you telling me that that human walrus has fallen in love at first sight with Vanessa Polk?""Alaric is not a human walrus!""You criticize my use of the word human?" (48)--It is not too much to say that at this point in his progress Lord Emsworth was feeling calm, confident and carefree; but a wise friend, one who had read his Thomas Hardy and learned from that pessimistic author's works how often and how easily human enterprises are ruined by some unforeseen Act of God, would have warned him against any premature complacency.
A proud man, he resented having his love letters written for him, but on the other hand he could not but feel that in the present crisis a ghost writer would come in uncommonly handy, for he had to admit that, left to his devices, he would not even know how to start the thing, let alone fill the four sheets which could be looked on as the irreducible minimum.
Dressed like a tramp and tucking into an extra jammy Rolly-Polly Pudding in the solitude of his library, the ninth Earl of Emsworth was enjoying one of those salad days which can only be had in the complete absence of Dukes and sisters from Blandings Castle.But of course it can't last.
Still, paintings are duly pilfered, the poor earl finds himself beset by both invisible cats and fat-headed bats, whilst impostors pervade in gay abandon.
As ever a Blanding’s romp wouldn’t be complete without a number of imposters and in this case Galahads godson Johnny Halliday is impersonating Roddy Glossop’s assistant whilst Howard Chesney is hiding his light of being a crook under a bushel and Miss Polk’s father is not the man quoted as Mr Polk in ‘Who’s Who’.Written when he was 87 Wodehouse had put his best writing behind him but re-visiting old friends at his Eden of Blandings has brought out the best in him and this can stand up with the Blandings stories written in his greatest period.

One of Wodehouse's later books does not have the sparkle of earlier works, but still mildly enjoyable.
I admit that the plot has not stayed with me after a mere day or so but it is of a pleasant sort - dotty Emsworth, bossy Connie, young lovers with an impediment to their betrothal, someone or two under false pretenses, a theft being required.
And an appearance by the Empress.
And Gally to the rescue.I suppose there is a certain comfort to the predictability, the Alexander McCall Smith of his day for sheer volume and slightness of plot, but wittier and sillier and with a certain nostalgic charm for days that never were.
'I don't think i can go as far as that,' he said,'but he certainly ought to see a psychiatrist.''A what?''One of those fellows who ask you questions about your childhood and gradually dig up the reason why you go about shouting "Fire" in crowded theaters. They find it's because somebody took away your all day sucker when you were six.'It's always fun to come back to P.G. Wodehouse's works after a while. Read this on a two day long journey in train while getting the looks of fellow passengers as i was shrieking the whole time with laughter.
I love P. G. Wodehouse! This was the perfect book to listen to on a roadtrip. Mishaps, light mayhem and a prized pig - what could be wrong with that?! The reader was perfect (Jarvis...). If you are looking for something lighthearted, this one is just right - like that tasty cookie after a good meal.
Once again, Lord Emsworth and Uncle Galahad produce the laughs.
A Pelican at Blandings retitled.
Reading Wodehouse is pure bliss.
It is pure unadulterated humor.
In his own words “I believe there are two ways of writing novels.
It's probably because you were born that way." "For a humorous novel you've got to have a scenario, and you've got to test it so that you know where the comedy comes in, where the situations come in … splitting it up into scenes (you can make a scene of almost anything) and have as little stuff in between as possible."Bandings castle and its characters is one the best of his creations.
Whether Shropshire is fictional or purely not, I'm not going there ever again - figuratively.
The goalposts have moved.
I think Wodehouse will be one of the first big names that no one remembers in the coming centuries.
Summer Lightning was good - not great.
Pigs have Wings was nice to read.
What passed for entertaining literature no longer cuts the mustard nowadays.
The worrying thing is that something else should and must occupy the vacuum left behind by authors like Wodehouse, Doyle, and their generation.
I'm getting so desperate that i'm contemplating giving Stephanie Meyer a try.
And I'm not envisaging reading The Host.
I picked this audiobook up as an accompaniment to sewing, but I think hearing it was probably one of the best ways to experience the story anyway. Wodehouse stories always make me long for someone to do equally funny justice to modern social conventions; this book was no exception. Very funny listening. It's amazing how much his droll descriptions draw out the humor. If you saw a plot outline, the concept might seem slightly screwball, little more, but Wodehouse finds a way to relate things that makes you laugh even more. A very satisfying romp.
"Capital ! Capital ! Capital !" (quoth Lord Elmsworth, Chapter XI).It bothers me to dissect humour and PGW's works is the splendid English fare I would not consider suitable for "analysis", such craftsmanship is to be admired and basked in. Clarence's infatuation with his pig, the imposters Johnny and Vanessa, heartless Connie, Miss Polk, and the pelican himself ... are parts of the colorful melange this book is. Though I have read better works of PGW, this is beautiful in its own right.
Galahad Threepwood, Lord Emsford, his battleaxe of a sister, Constance, and, of course, the Empress of Blandings, the fattest sow in that part of England. How can you go wrong? This is Wodehouse at the top of his form. A+
Great. I had read before in the early eighties under another title. Lotsa fun.
It's always fun to visit Blandings, and this is no exception.
A nice light read.

The usual Blandings Castle/Galahad Threepwood fare from PG Wodehouse with its quota of authoritarian sisters, imposters, pigs, sundered hearts, paintings to be stolen, etc. But man! Wodehouse makes it all so hilarious with funny turns of phrase and plotlines :-) I must have looked like a crazy person a couple of times laughing to myself while reading this book in public.
It’s been a while since I read a Wodehouse story and I forgot again how much I love them. It was a typical fake identities and shenanigans story and as light and humourous as you’d expect from a story set at Blandings. Silly antics and characters along with the predictability of a happy ending were perfect.
I read this book and could see how people of a much older generation found P G Wodehouse to be the first real comic writer of the modern age. While there are elements that entertained I felt it was mainly dated in style and approach. Perhaps there are other works that are funnier.
A while since I read any Wodehouse and this was a happy return, most of the usual themes in evidence and the glorious language. I seem to have missed a resolution to the question of the Empress and her appetite, or lack of it, for a potato, which is clearly going to bother me.
Outrageously funny. Had a fantastic time reading it. Emsworth becomes more endearing after each book and there's no end to Galahad's planning. That humor can be plotted so was completely beyond my imagination till Wodehouse.
British comedy. Funny, brief, mind boggling.
