https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17214.Starship_Troopers
I suppose, when you see some of Heinlein's later books (Stranger in a Strange Land, 1961; I Will Fear No Evil, 1970), you may get the idea that he's some kind of hippy New Age prophet, and that Starship Troopers is poking fun at the militaristic right.
Stranger in a Strange Land was originally conceived as a satire; Heinlein was surprised to see that people liked it and read it straight, and, more flexible than he's often made out, he rewrote it that way and followed it up with a couple of similar books.Many more people are taking Starship Troopers at face value, and appreciate how it presents the military in a positive light.
I first read this back in early high school, maybe 26-30 years ago, and over time my memory of the book had been diluted by memories of the film and by thoughts of a similar Hugo award winning novel, The Forever War by Joe Haldeman.
Like many Heinlein novels, it works well on many levels, the surface science fiction, and then the deeper, more complicated voice of the storyteller, speaking from his own experience.This is a controversial book.
At the end of the day, it was a fine book, another excellent, genre transcending work from Heinlein.
Johnny Rico is a soldier in more than merely name, and the reader discovers this through this narrative.For those of you who have seen the film incarnation of this story, simply forget it.
If you have already seen the movie, as I stated before, forget it.There is one thing I would mention that is perhaps the fault of this book.
The society could very well work if it was implemented exactly in the fashion it is described in his novel, but the transition from our current societal structure to this system of government is EXTREMELY unlikely.
My dad had a lot of SF books around the house, particularly Heinlein's, and I read most of them, except the especially sexy ones that he hid from me.
What I got was a lot of this:Not much of this:And you can forget about this:Basically it's one long military lecture wrapped in a paper-thin science fiction plot.
I'm pretty certain that Heinlein is rolling in his grave over Paul Verhoeven's satirical treatment of his military screed.And I'm still confused why Teenage Me thought this was a great book ...
This is one of those movies that "ticks me off" in that I liked the book and this thing takes the book's title and gives us a perversion of that story.************!2/9 /2018Okay time for another update.This has come up in the discussion of the book on/in the Action Adventure Aficionados group and now in a comment here.
You may agree, you may disagree but it's not a government anything like the one in the ridiculous movie.
HeinleinStarship Troopers is a military science fiction novel by U.S. writer Robert A.
Starship Troopers has been identified with a tradition of militarism in U.S. science fiction, and draws parallels between the conflict between humans and the Bugs, and the Cold War. A coming-of-age novel, Starship Troopers also critiques U.S. society of the 1950s, argues that a lack of discipline had led to a moral decline, and advocates corporal and capital punishment.
...تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز شانزدهم ماه ژوئیه سال 1998 میلادیعنوان: جنگاوران اختر ناو؛ رابرت انسن هاین لاین؛ مترجم: پیمان اسماعیلیان خامنه؛ تهران، نشر گل آرا؛ 1376؛ در 272 ص؛ شابک: 9649080406؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نشر قطره، 1392، در 399 ص؛ شابک: 9786001191732؛جنگاوران اختر ناو، یا سربازان کشتی فضایی؛ رمانی تخیلی، اثر: رابرت آنسون هاین‌ لاین، است.
Next you're treated to an extended flashback where a teacher (who is quite obviously channelling the author) lectures his students (representing the reader) about the major reason for the downfall of society in the past (today!).
It does make me wonder about the particular proclivities of the author, but that's neither here nor there.So now that our main character, Johnny Rico, is a full-fledged soldier we can finally get to some action after half the book is already finished, right?
You will not see action in this book that is advertised to be about killing gigantic outer space bugs.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “Nothing of value is free. Even the breath of life is purchased at birth only through gasping effort and pain.” Since NPH is one of the reasons Starship Troopers remains a favorite film of mine, I think I’ll let him express my sentiments on the paper version . . .  I need to realize that sometimes it’s okay to not read the book. Starship Troopers is such a cult classic – it’s just soooooo bad that it somehow became great. The book, on
I need to realize that sometimes it’s okay to not read the book.
Starship Troopers is such a cult classic – it’s just soooooo bad that it somehow became great.
Well – it clearly inspired the film, but it doesn’t have the same style at all.
Translation – the book is smart and while I was reading I was all like .
Know who else is from Terra????
And it wasn’t even someone awesome like Captain Kirk or Picard – it was more like the life and styles of one Ensign Crusher.
These guys get dropped onto planets with their spacesuits and their big guns, and they can incinerate some little brown people like you wouldn't believe, then they can leave without a single casualty.
It's my review, and I'll argue with a dead guy if I want to.) Heinlein's protagonist also makes an argument about the prison system and how it doesn't actually reform those who do time.
So, reading this book got me thinking about the mindset of this protagonist, and thinking about the soldiers and marines I've known, and...well...maybe as much as I disagree with this mindset, perhaps it's a necessary mindset for someone in the military.
But. It was also incredibly pro-war and the middle development section got a little long.
Well, I felt that this book also started and ended with adrenaline rushes but that the middle was a bit flat.
The Bugs were never given any treatment to make them less of an "enemy" which seemed a bit like the vilification of, say, blacks or arabs by the extreme right.
Fortunately, his pessimism has not (yet) been born out and there are still many who adhere to the 'best things are free' philosophy rather than the Ayn Randian determinism demonstrated here by Heinlein.
"What do you mean 'They' cut the power?
How could they cut the power man they're animals!" Aliens (sure it's the wrong movie, but a cool quote nevertheless)The book has very little in common with the movie.
The film is something that is ubiquitous on cable.
In both the film and book, the soldiers battle big bug thingies.
The book is only bookended with battle sequences, the rest is training and talk.
The film has plenty of CGI action.The book features much discussion about the nature of the soldier and the place of the military in the distant future.
It is way more entertaining than the average classic and way smarter than the average sci-fi book.The issues with it are much deeper than that.For this is a novel of political philosophy more than a novel of science fiction.
It is blatantly amerocentric, militaristic propaganda.First of all, the book propones the view that only those who have served in the military should be given civil rights.
The second is all the rest of the soldier characters, who are, to put it mildly, not particularly bright.
‘Muricans (and wannabe ‘Muricans) killing space bugs.Starship Troopers has many layers: it’s a propaganda text in the guise of a political treatise in the guise of science fiction.
Chock-a-block full of gung-ho jingoism, narrow minded fascist pipe dreams, and casual descriptions of institutional dehumanization as well as violence...basically everything you would expect from a book written in the perspective of a futuristic jarhead. I have never read a book in which I agreed with so little, but loved so much.
This book is for people who are interested in the nuances of military training and organization and did not feel like classic science fiction to me.
I guess technically it takes place in the future and in space but this is such a minor part of the book that it shouldn't really fall into the sci-fi category.
I was confused by the military ranks and didn't care about any of the characters.
There are too many characters and they aren't explained very well so it's hard to keep track of them.
I don't recommend this book at all.
Moreover, it provides answers that are quite logical.I think I was about 15 when I read Starship Troopers for the first time, which is perhaps appropriate because this novel can be labelled as young adult (and I can recommend it if that’s the genre you go for).
This book teaches us a lesson about life and it does it n such a casual and effortless way it is almost hard to notice it.There are those who call this novel militant but I don’t think this world that Heinlein created was supposed to be taken as a strict model to build on.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Word of warning.
I’m going to discourse both on the book and on the Verhoeven’s movie.He didn't include them as "grunts" probably because the training was sufficiently hard that most wouldn't have made it.
He did the same with Joe Eszterhas's scripts for “Basic Instinct” and “Showgirls”.
“Basic Instinct” is a detective story where the 'hero' is someone who's already gotten away with murder because of his badge, and who shoots another innocent victim before the film is out, while the 'villain' is never actually shown to kill anyone.
At the time when Heinlein wrote this novel (the late 1950s), the US Armed Forces had won World War II not so long ago, and were at the same time beefing up their nuclear arsenal against a potential strike from the USSR, sending troops overseas and starting an endless war in Vietnam, and sending the first unmanned missions to the face of the moon!Starship Troopers is mostly a Bildungsroman about the US Armed Forces (Robert Heinlein himself was a US Navy officer and engineer), written in the form of a journal or documentary, from a young man’s point of view, from boot camp til glorious war veteran.
Besides the names, it shares very little with RAH's study on why free men subject themselves to a loss of freedom in order to ensure freedom for others.This book greatly influenced me when I was a boy- and it still colors my thinking today- 35 years later.This should be on the reading lists of every high school.AFTERNOTE!
I would like to correct what appears to be a common misconception about the society described in Heinlein's book:YOU DID NOT HAVE TO BE A MILITARY VET TO BECOME A CITIZEN!!!
As RAH clearly stated, you had to be a veteran of FEDERAL SERVICE.
Which as RAH further stated could be something very much along the lines of the Peace Corps, AmericCorps, the WPA, the CCC, etc.
Against his family's wishes, Juan "Johnnie" Rico joins the Mobile Infantry and the war against the Bugs.
I picked it up solely because it was an inspiration for one of my favorite books, Old Man's War by John Scalzi.
I'd say ninety percent of the book was Juan Rico's military life.
Aliens looking like giant bugs aren't overly original but they sure are creepy.
For a story including power armor and giant bugs, Starship Troopers was kind of boring.
I'm glad I read it so I could see the inspiration for parts of Old Man's War but I doubt I'll feel the urge to re-read it any time soon.
Love this book.
I said i thought that was a great idea and that I thought we should go even further and demand all public servants have some sort of military service to achieve a high office.
Keep in mind that we're both veterans with him having been an officer in the USMC and myself in the Navy from a long line of men and women who have served.
He's never read the book so he's downloading it and then we can talk about it again after he's gone through it.
As I am not a fan of military combat scenes I did not feel particularly involved with the first chapter but things really do pick up with the story of Rico’s boot camp experiences.
The details of the training, the future military technology and Heinlein’s jaunty, snarky narrative tone and dialogue makes this section of the book fast paced and enjoyable.
It is not my place to criticize Heinlein's views on these matters as he has clearly thought long and hard about them and I have not, but all his pontifications plays hell with the narrative flow and as a work of fiction  Starship Troopers is by and large not a lot of fun to read.
Turns out that he never finished this book and made the story up as he saw fit.
There isn't much of a plot to this book and the story arc, so to speak, is more like a low lying limbo poll.
Of course, Heinlein's theories about citizenship and government are seriously flawed.
But they're fascinating (if you like that sort of thing) and the description of military life is both rich and well depicted.
Of course, you have to have a passion for both the military AND theory of government to enjoy this book.
Starship Troopers, the book, is one of my all-time favorites.
This military sci-fi novel has all the aspects of hard science fiction I love: an honest and brave protagonist in a ridiculously dangerous situation, controversial politics, space adventures, cool gadgets, and unimaginable aliens.By contrast, Starship Troopers the movie is also one of my favorites, but for completely different (and admittably shallow) reasons.
The movie only vaguely resembles the book, but it has hot-hot-oh-SO-HOT characters, space adventure and wonderfully campy dialogue.
I hate hearing someone say "the movie was so cheesy, why would I read the book?" because there's simply no comparison.
If anything, I was pleased the novel was a quick read so that I could more readily set it aside.To follow a character through the ups and downs of boot camp and warfare and to revel in his victories and sympathize with his failings, it’s nearly essential that you like him.
It’s like watching the Karate Kid practice that Crane Kick for an hour without seeing his victory at the end.Admittedly, my predisposition toward war did not especially jive with the ideas that Heinlein’s book seems to present.
(Apparently the movie satirizes the book, but I haven’t watched it yet.)So maybe if my vision of the perfect future included military rule, maybe I would like Starship Troopers.
No doubt that if you're looking at this review, you have probably seen the movie of the same name...not a bad movie, but not a good one either.
I read this one in high school after having seen a green placard on I-90 that said "Movie Location: STARSHIP TROOPERS."I thought that was pretty cool...not many cool things happen in South Dakota, so having a pretty descent (I thought at the time) movie shot in our Badlands made me even more interested in the book.
Yes, there is a bunch of militaristic propaganda and you probably could write a pretty interesting dissertation about all the -isms that populate the thoughts and actions and messages within the pages.
I watched the movie on Netflix, and then read the book.
I'm happy to report that the book is much, much better than the movie.The story follows Rico, a generic soldier in the Terran Infantry in the lead up to and the full fledged explosion of war against the alien "bug" species.
The aliens are kind of like ants in that there is a Queen and a vast army or soldier and worker bugs dedicated to a specific role.
Kind of generic, but fun.
It's OK, I guess, but I generally want to avoid books with too firm of a message.
That book is fun.
While this is sci-fi, it also seems semi-autobiographical.
Robert Heinlein was in the Navy and it appears this novel is based on his experiences.
Overall it feels like an introductory to a series or little more than an outline, as if Heinlein wanted a walk down memory lane in book form.
Critics have called this military propaganda.
Since he was writing through the voice of an unreliable narrator, I'll leave that topic to others to fight over and limit my criticism to the lack of action.
In other words, in a novel about soldiers learning how to fight, there should be more fighting.
The book is far, far superior.- This book was very far ahead of its time, in terms of sci-fi ideas, with the M.I.'s mechanized suits and the ships' Cherenkov drives (FTL/hyperspeed/warp drives); gender roles, as women were starship pilots in the Terran Navy; and racial diversity, with the cast being extremely multi-racial for 1959 when it was written.- I was almost turned off from reading Starship Troopers when I heard it called "military propaganda," but found the arguments for the military to be fairly balanced.
While the slant is obviously pro-military -- the main character did choose to join up, after all -- the military is never glorified.
So it is with Starship Troopers.Juan Rico is the means by which Robert Heinlein is able to put forth his opinions on war and society, politics, citizenship, crime, child-rearing and, of course, military service.
There is absolutely nothing about Juan Rico than makes him any more interesting than any other character except that he happens to be the narrator of the story.If that were all, I might be able to let this book slide as just thinly-veiled military fetishism.
Don't get me wrong, I thoroughly enjoy the film, as an action-adventure film, but the novel from which it derives is a much better piece of work.The writing in this book is very technical.
Heinlein does go into great detail on the futuristic technologies, exemplified by the description of a Mobile Infantry mechanized armor suit, solidifying the story's claim to the title of science fiction; at the same time, a fair job is done displaying the personal struggles that are all too real to any person of any time, and allow the reader to truly relate.
That's because it's far less an action-adventure story than it is an intellectual political science debate.
