https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149049.The_Fountains_of_Paradise
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my HUGO WINNERS list.This is the reading list that follows the old adage, "if it ain't broke, don't fix it". I loved reading the Locus Sci-Fi Award winners so I'm going to crack on with the Hugo winners next (but only the post-1980 winners, I'll follow up with
I'm not quite sure what exactly I was expecting, because I'd never read anything by Arthur C Clarke before, but Space Elevators are a staple of space-opera, a sub-genre I'm particularly fond of - so I guess I was expecting more...
Despite the wonderful engineering feat described, I never felt riveted (please excuse the terrible pun).For anyone (like me) who doesn't know much about this book:The story is about the greatest engineer of his generation, Van. His masterwork to date was the Gibraltar bridge, so huge it's simply referred to as The Bridge.
Clarke’s later books, but in its themes and style is reminiscent of some of his best work.Telling the story of an elevator into space, this also describes a flashback related story thousands of years earlier as a Sri Lankan king builds a palace high on the mountain top.
Both celestial projects stretch the limits of human achievement and engineering ability and Clarke’s unique talent ties the two stories together.Much of the narrative is devoted to explanations of the problems and obstacles to overcome for such a marvel of technology and engineering.
Clarke also sets this in the near future and describes other preeminent projects like a bridge across Gibraltar.
It would perhaps be more precise to say that it is about one man's attempt to construct a space elevator, as Clarke suffers from his usual failing of trying to tell grand world transforming stories from the viewpoint of a single individual who has limited social interaction.
The result ends up seeming less grand than even, for example, the story of the laying of the first transatlantic telegraph cable.(For example.)But the biggest disappointment is that the first two thirds of the book don't deal directly with the construction of the tower at all, but instead deal with the protagonist's struggle to obtain permission to build the space elevator on land currently occupied by an unwilling Buddhist monastery.
Vannevar Morgan, the Chief Engineer of the Terran Construction Corporation, dreams of building a bridge that links Earth to the stars.
The “space elevator” is preferable over rocket travel because it is less expensive and less damaging to the environment.
A mountain on the island of Taprobane is the only location capable of holding the elevator, and that location is currently inhabited by Buddhist monks that have no desire to leave.
Morgan must convince or coerce the monks to leave in order to fulfill his dream and build a bridge to the sky.
4.5 to 5.0 stars.
Definitely one of Clarke's best novels, which is saying something given his tremendous body of work.
The novel, as most of Clarke's work, was respectful of the scientific basis required for the story but never let itself get bogged down in overly long technical explanations.
A superb story that once again reaffirms that man can do just about anythign if he sets his mind to it.
HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1980)Winner: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1980)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1980)Nominee: British Science Fiction Award for Best Novel (1980)
When I was a kid, Arthur C.
Clarke's 'The Fountains of Paradise' was one of my favorite books.
I must've read it more than half a dozen times, checking it out from the library.
The book has to do with the creation of a space elevator, and though I haven't read it, now, in over 30 years, I remember it dealing beautifully and sensitively with the conflicts between traditionalism and social and technological progress.
It follows one scientist's 'impossible dream' to fulfillment, and although the ending is bittersweet, it is full of optimism: of the belief that innovation will truly make our world and our lives better, and that one brilliant person can, at the end, make a difference.
The Fountains of Paradise neatly juxtaposes the attempts to build humanity's first space elevator with the Sri Lankan Empire of the cruel king Kalidasa, a usurper of the Sri Lankan throne who during his rule built a pleasure palace whose beauty challenged that of heavenly paradise (the fountains in the title refer to the water gardens in the palace).Set in a semi-fictional Sri Lanka (here known as Taprobane), the story mainly concerns Vannemar Morgan, a world renowned engineer, and his attempts to get support for an audacious project- the linking of Earth’s surface to orbit via a near monomolecular diamond cable, a cable that will allow for freight and people to be taken to orbit without the use of expensive rocketry.Clarke’s fictional Sri Lanka, being close to the equator, is a natural spot for such an elevator, and the mountain known as Sri Kanda is by virtue of its height and location the best place on earth to connect the cable.
The book won the two major sci-fi awards, the Hugo and the Nebula, back when it was published in 1979, but the cover blurb never grabbed my interest enough to read it over the years.
Once built, payloads could then be lifted to orbit at a fraction of the cost of using rockets.To be honest, at first the book was a little slow moving as it detailed the political maneuvering to gather support for the project and to secure the ideal place to anchor it to.
I will give Clarke kudos for not getting too bogged down in the technical details of the project.
Arthur C. Clarke once wrote a rather dull short story, which just happened to suggest the idea of geostationary satellites over 20 years before there were any. This is a rather dull novel, which presents a detailed plan for building a space elevator.Well, I hope history repeats itself...
Where I've recently read one or two Hugo-winning novels recently that I may or may not have exactly wished were winners, I have no qualms in announcing that this 1980 winner is a real winner.It's a true pleasure to read on several levels.
Even better was place and history AS character, with ancient mountain palaces, kings, and the weight of time and even the help of religion, leading to the final foundation of this admittedly awesome space elevator.
:)But never fear, if you're worried that nothing much happens, because the novel is full of ideas and conflict of an intellectual and engineering perspective.
"There's a lady who's sure all that glitters is goldAnd she's buying a stairway to heaven" Hmm... not an entirely appropriate Led Zep reference I suppose but I got to start the review somewhere, and the phrase "Stairway to heaven" does appear in the book, but regrettably not the guitar solo.It is quite often pleasant to go into a book without knowing anything about it. Not exactly the case with this one, I knew it is about space elevators, it's not exactly an obscure book by an unknown author b
In both books the space elevator is not the focus of the story, it is something in daily use, which makes the idea even more vivid for me.Clarke is, of course, a giant of the sf genre, but I suspect he does not get enough credit for his fiction writing skills.
I’m sure you’ll be able to trace it.”(I think it's a reference to 2001: A Space Odyssey)My only criticism of The Fountains of Paradise is the alien "Starholmers" who seem to have been shoehorned into the story unnecessarily.
He plays some political games, some relationship building games and a lot of experimentation as he proceeds with his obsession of the space elevator.
I got the sense that Clarke cared more about the elevator then some character development.
Now, some reviewers did not like the very atheistic tastes of the probe, but I found I didn’t mind it.
I get the hard sci-fi concept of the book, and that could still remain but it would have benefitted from being a bit longer with some more character development to make me care more about Van as a human, not just as a brilliant architect.
this is a comforting, engaging, typically arthur c clarke future: conflict is between man capital M and the constraints of the universe- and incidentally, of course, the religious forces- but science trumps them all.
here are some other clarke though i do have some separate reviews (2001 in particular)...2001: A Space Odyssey by Arthur C.
Clarke (mostly before 17)every short story ever published by this man who defined the earlier possibilities of science fiction- but not just a cheerleader for sf, he wrote some masterpieces not entirely triumphal eg.
Clarkefirst read this before my personal golden age of science fiction, i was 12…two stars-Rendezvous with Rama by Arthur C.
3.5
Where should I start, If I could give it 4.5 stars I would, I really enjoyed the book, and after lab
At times I felt quite engaged and at others I felt like I wish it would just get on with it.I'm coming to the conclusion that I'm not particularly a fan of hard science fiction, particularly when the focus is on the application of new technology and the technical and engineering problems that need to be overcome.
That's very much the focus in this book and, let's face it, Clarke's forte.
But if you love imagining futuristic technology, impressive feats of engineering and thinking through technical problems and how they might be overcome, this book's for you.
I was grabbed by the fact it’s a Hugo and Nebula Award winning novel and that the whole basis for the book is about building an elevator into space.
I really liked the line “I’ve always wanted,’ he said dreamily, ‘to know exactly what would happen when an irresistible force meets an immovable object” because it summarized the themes of the story so well.
What happens when irresistible science meets immovable religion?
What happens when irresistible future meets immovable past?
The conflicting ideals of science vs religion and past and future (old tradition vs change) come to play in this novel.
I didn't expect to like this. Space elevators, yawn.The setting, in Sri Lanka, with the historic temple/kingdom/gardens - first of all I can't believe that place exists. But it does. [image error]And then somehow it is the only appropriate place to build a space elevator. The story goes backwards and forwards in time. It triggered my imagination like when I was young!ETA: We discussed this on the SFF Audio Podcast.
Solid 3.5 for me. Really enjoyed the grand scope of it all and the single minded vision of Morgan V. Quite a tale to follow from inception to end. Space elevators are awesome.First read: 23.11.17Bought: Google Play Store
The fountains of paradise, Arthur C. ClarkeCharacters: Vannemar MorgaAbstracts: Vannemar Morgan's dream of linking Earth with the stars requires a 24,000-mile-high space elevator. But first he must solve a million technical, political, and economic problems.عنوان یک: چشمههای بهشت، رمان علمی – تخیلی / آرتور سی. کلارک، ترجمه: محمد قصاع، نشر: تهران، نشر افق، چاپ نخست سال 1357، این چاپ ۱۳۸۰، در 309 ص.، فروست: مجموعه آثار علمی - تخیلی، ۱۰، شابک: ایکس964674222، عنوان دیگر: فوارههای بهشتداستانی تخیلی ا
راستی چرا؟ایده‌ی «آسانسور فضایی»، از خود «کلارک» بوده، اما گویا پیش از ایشان نیز شخص دیگری به این موضوع فکر کرده بود، موضوع را به قلم خود «کلارک» از مؤخره کتاب نقل می‌کنم: «این مفهوم جالب، نخست در «مجله ساینس» و در تاریخ 11 فوریه 1966 مطرح شد.
اما پس از مدتی آشکار شد، که «مهندسی روسی» در سال 1960 طی مقاله‌ای چنین چیزی را پیشنهاد کرده بوده، در طول سال­های بگذشته، فعالیت‌های «نظری- علمی» و محاسبات زیادی در این خصوص صورت گرفته است.
Прво се спомиње неки цар који је живио прије двије хиљаде година (а он је владао на том мјесту на којем оће да праве тај лифт) и на почетку књиге имамо неколико флешбекова са њим, да би га онда Кларк једноставно баталио.
Први тај флешбек је на самом почетку књиге, тако да ме је то навело на потпуно погрешан траг, јер сам помислио да је у питању интересантна фантазијска прича, а онда се одједном појавише камере и свемирски бродови и све оде у мајчину.
Dr. Morgan doesn't know about Kalidasa until he reaches Sri Kanda, but on the mountain, the grand king comes alive for him and, with Morgan, we experience the beauty of that ancient civilization.In glorious contrast, we see Dr. Morgan's stunning vision of Earth's future -- people quickly and inexpensively traveling back and forth to multiple space stations that orbit the Earth and are connected to the planet by Morgan's elevators.
Because while Clarke at least addresses most of the issues facing space elevators, he tends to gloss over them very quickly, and there's little trial and error or mishap involved.
Aside from the believability factor, it's inessential to the storyline and actually serves as a distraction.All that said, The Fountains of Paradise is, for the most part, engaging to listen to, and the few characters are mostly interesting people.
The concept of a space elevator is fascinating to me, and the science is pretty close to hard, and makes it look like both an appealing and a potentially near project.
This was one of the first science fiction books I remember reading that I could see the possibility of something which (at that time) seemed impossible.
But a geosynchronous space elevator made me pause.
The other detail which bothered me was the speed which which people traveled to and from the top of the space elevator.
Extending as it did to a geosynchronous top, the elevator had to be over 26,000 miles long.
This book and Rendezvous with Rama cemented my love for science fiction, then suffering under the growing insanity and/or silliness of some of the genre's founders.A very good read.
I just recently saw the documentary, "Sky Line", which Clarke and this novel was often refereed to it.At some point, in this novel, Jules Verne is referred to, and the idea came to me that this is much like a Verne gadget based story, though here it's a space elevator rather than a balloon or submarine.The extra terrestrial subplot in the novel did add little to the main idea, yet it added an element of pure scifi to the whole, momentarily taking the reader"out of school" for a recess time in the fantastic.It really was a good read.
Nutshell: earthlings begin building skyhook, aliens show up, aliens go away, earthlings finish skyhook, yay!Nifty parallel drawn between ancient monument builders and scifi megastructures through the use of an ancient Sri Lankan legend (or what purports to be, anyway).
Best parts of the book are the political interactions between interest groups regarding obstacles to building the space elevator.
Most engaging sections involve the alien probe, which effectively ridicules earthling stupidity, especially religion (92-95).
I'm just not sure why the aliens are in the book, though.
Ending of the novel more or less ruined by a thriller-rescue sequence.
Cool that the novel quotes a line from Goethe that would be eponymous for Asimov.
I never really like Arthur C.
Clarke books, but I always like Arthur C.
Clarke.
There's a warmth and a hope to his relentless rationality, a kind of calm, dis/believing center to his scientific outlook, which I find charming even while his stories usually plod slowly and relentlessly onward, eventually boring the shit out of me.
This whole book comes down to an aging scientist with a heart condition attempting to disengage a really heavy battery from the underside of a stuck elevator.
fine?
But like...
I don't need hundreds of pages for that.
Though I did like the alien visitor.
Embarrassing enough, this book is what inspired me to persure engineering. It's a fun story of an engineer's attempts to "elevate" humanity.
The engineering protagonist (Clarke's protagonists are always engineers) gets it done by enlisting a consortium of rich, forward-thinking individuals and organizations, and putting it in a near future in which interplanetary travel and shipping is already in existence.Most of the book is about overcoming the engineering, and to a lesser extent, social challenges in building the elevator.
It's interesting to compare this to the Mars trilogy by Robinson, a conscious attempt to recreate Clarke's style which revisits a lot of the same themes and ideas of this book.
Clarke has a remarkable ability to blend his extrapolations with, not just action, but genuinely interesting storylines and characters.My criticisms of the book have more to do with what isn't there than what is.
To my mind, the most interesting and important character of the entire book is Parakarma, aka Dr Choam Goldberg.
However, there are things that are missing from the book, and I keenly felt their lack.
