https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383181.Traitor_s_Purse
I happened to be in a book store in Door County and saw this mystery on the cheap paperback shelf and thought "I haven't read a good mystery in a while.
I'll give it a try."Keep in mind that Traitor's Purse is one in a series of mystery novels about Albert Campion.
I swore that if I got too lost and felt that I would need to back-read one of the preceding novels, I was going to lem the book.
Maybe if I had read a Campion novel or two before, or even one after, I might have a stronger connection with the plot.
Naturally, it takes a bad case of traumatic amnesia to do it and his timing couldn't be worse: Amanda, weary of waiting for him to come around, has fallen under the spell of a charming other man and wants out of their engagement of convenience.As if that weren't bad enough, some horrid Axis plan to undermine Britain's war effort--and its sovreignty--is under way and the only way to stop it is locked in Campion's very lost memory.
And quite frankly, though I adore Campion just the way he is, it's a humbling he sorely needs.
‘Traitor's Purse’, was written in 1940 at the beginning of WW2 and has an ingenious war related plot that, whilst invented by Margery Allingham, was coincidentally something the Nazis had actively considered around the same time.
In ‘Traitor's Purse’, and after a bang on the head, Campion awakes in hospital accused of attacking a police officer, and suffering from acute amnesia.
This is one of the strongest of the Campion books - almost pure thriller, set during World War II. Campion wakes, not knowing anything, even himself, hears a discussion of coming murder charges, and escapes into a non-stop freefall of pretending he knows what the hell is going on, with every second person he meets expecting him to save the world from a threat he can't even remember.Strongly recommended that both "Sweet Danger" and "The Fashion in Shrouds" be read before this, or you'll miss all the emotional impact of Campion's personal life.
Best of the best-but it only makes sense if you have read the series in order. Very dependent on previous knowledge of characters and plots that came before.
This little British mystery was not really my cup of tea; my mother loved it and passed it along to me.
I think if I'd read others in the series, I would have enjoyed it more.
It's a clever story and has a few chuckles here and there, but it was written in the early 1940s, so the humor is both older and very British.
It was good enough to keep me reading 'til the end, but I confess to being glad when I turned that last page.
Onto something more my cup of tea!
A good adventure/mystery book to pass the time with. Not my favourite Campion. Allingham starts off strong with a new and very inventive twist to the usual plot structure. Unfortunately she doesn't seem to carry the tension through to the end. Still worth perusing!
Albert Campion, who doesn't remember he is Albert Campion, wakes up in the hospital, without memory, and overhears a police man talking to a nurse in the hall: The cop is guarding a patient who got knocked out in a brawl where he killed another officer.It's simply an awesome start for a plot.
It was an absolute thriller of cliffhangers, and god, what a good premise for a crime novel: No memory, who do you trust, *everything* is mysterious.However, as the novel started nearing its completion, I started getting in trouble.It may be because I'm a bit slow, I've had this trouble with novels before, that when conspiracies start getting global, there's a limit to what I understand.
Campion struggling with amnesia while trying to save the country from a sinister plot of some kind - though he can't remember what - is one of Allingham's most human creations, transcending the cold caricature of her early novels.
It adds to the poignancy of his situation, as he cannot remember the in jokes and shared experiences that are so important in a close relationship, yet it is an extremely unlikely situation.There are other unlikely aspects to the novel, including the scheme that Campion is meant to be investigating.
An unusual entry in the entertaining Albert Campion series. As the book opens, the detective has no idea who or where he is - he just knows there's a threat and he has to get away. The wartime plot is pedestrian, but Allingham's effortlessly literary style and the amnesiac hero's very slowly dawning consciousness of the crimes being committed and planned around him make this a gripping tale reminiscent of "The 39 Steps" or even "North by Northwest."
Allingham also has a love story running through the narrative between Campion, her detective, and Amanda, his sidekick, and Campion's anxiety about not knowing what he is supposed to be doing is heightened by his anxiety that Amanda (whom he loves) has been sidetracked into feeling she prefers Lee Aubrey, one of The Masters of Bridge, Bridge being where the novel is set and which seems to be a quasi-autonomous 'polis' and hub of wealth and invention.
I bought this book on impulse immediately after reading AS Byatt declare it one of her favourites, in an article for the Guardian.
A good book if you're an Agatha Christie fan (Allingham was a contemporary of Christie, I believe) and have run out of Poirots and Miss Marples.
Campion isn't quite as distinctive as Christie's heroes, but I did quite like him - maybe more so when he was unsure of who he was, in fact.
So I can't lend it easily to my friend who I think would like it.
Would you like to donate?
A very odd Albert Campion story that begins not with our hero his usual unflappable self but bewildered by amnesia in the midst of a supersecret mission for King and country during WWII.
I always used to think of this hero-with-amnesia plot device as Roger Zelazny's, since he opens the Nine Princes in Amber series with it, but I see now that Zelazny was preceded by another.
The device itself is not entirely satisfying, but Allingham commits herself to it, perseveres, and makes the best anyone could of the gimmick.
Nevertheless this is a romp of a story, a page-turner and a fun read.
This was almost like a Hardy Boys' novel for adults, really fun. I do feel guilty about not taking it like 100% seriously as literature since the article by AS Byatt that got me to read it seemed to be urging me to do exactly that. I don't think it quite transcends the genre as much as I think Byatt does but I did really enjoy it and would highly recommend.
Loved it. Couldn't put it down. It's tense, engaging and contains a surprising number of layers of story for a volume so slim.
4 1/2 stars! The best of the Campion books, in my opinion. Allingham weaves the plot like a master and when it all comes together at the end, every small detail is in place.
Brilliant, intelligent and wonderfully plotted, one of my favourite Campions with some beautiful characterisations.
The written word gives you a bit more time to consider the characters and plot however this book kept the reader in no doubt time is running short.
Once you get into the book it is hard to put down because you want to see how Campion wins through and like many detectives both commissioned and amateur, they mostly want to be the one who gets his man or confounds the criminals plan.
That influence is long gone and you know that it will never return which makes these stories a bit quaint but it helps the flow when the investigator is caught up a blind alley - today so many have re-tread their steps.
It also has more of Amanda and romance if you are familiar with the Allingham Series.Albert Campion wakes up in a Hospital with total amnesia.
During this time he has to "act normal" even among his dearest which includes Amanda and Lugg, his Servant.
Albert escapes from the hospital and ends up riding with Amanda and a guest- who will soon be murdered.
Allingham, is a master at leading you through a mosaic of word patterns holding it tense and fine in parts.
If you enjoy Sayers and Christie then you should enjoy Allingham and in the words of Amanda,"Be gone across the raging tide"
A brilliant mystery – how does a man with amnesia unmask a national conspiracy?I fell in love with Albert Campion on the TV series, but years ago I really disliked The Affair at Black Dudley (the first Campion).
We see his newly discovered love for a woman he’s already lost and his haunting terror that he will not be in time to prevent a national tragedy.Swinging wildly between a creature of primitive emotions and an uppercrust man of intelligence and manners, we can’t help but wonder which is the real Campion?
They recommended this book, along with two others I'll be trying next.I did enjoy Traitor's Purse more than the first two Campion books I've read.
For most of the books Campion is amnesiac, desperately trying to solve the mystery his cognizant self had been working on while not betraying his current predicament to anyone, putative friend or possible foe.
This experience not only lends itself to a storytelling experience with a bit of dizzying flair, but to character development (for Campion's amnesiac personality is somewhat different than his usual one).
I confess I enjoyed amnesiac!Campion's personality rather more than that of the usual Campion.
How to write review of this book without putting out spoilers for this truly magnificent piece of work by Allingham?Let’s see--what can I see without giving it all away?
We do have the presence of the staunchly loyal Lugg, as well as the unflinching support of of Lady Amanda Fitton, neither of whom quite realize the exact nature of the Campion they are dealing with here.
But that is not the Campion we see here.Allingham has presented us with a tour de force of writing at a blindingly brilliant level, even for her.
It does not seem possible, but with this book Allingham has surpassed herself.
While it is a common, if not always smart, move to pitch the hero of a developing series into a personal crisis, having Campion lose his memory so disastrously, as well as incredibly, so reduces him to grubbing around that pulling him round in time to save the country verges on the laughable.
The novel does pick up some tension near the end but Allingham fails to exploit the conjunction of a very local place with a world-significant time in history.
It doesn’t help that, in the audio version, the reader accentuates the pathetic, almost farce-like, character that Albert Campion has become in this novel.
If this is a repetition, forgive me.Campion has been hit on the head and forgotten a great deal, including what mission he's supposed to be on.
Memory comes back at odd times, as he puts it, like finding and fitting jigsaw pieces.
That's why it gets 3 stars instead of 2.When he regains his memory it falls into one of those between the war and early WWII books full of plots by some unknown enemy to bring down civilization as we know it.
All the lengthy figuring and explaining by Campion just annoyed me.
Because I'm of a different time and place, I find these books to be very hit or miss as to their appeal to me.
I think I liked Campion better when he was knocked on his head and didn't know what was going on.
I had sympathy for his bewildered state, and for the flashes of hope that kept him going.
And then the story got more and more into some plot to bring England to her knees, and I lost interest.
I have the same problem with Christie's books when they deal with some vague worldwide evil plot that is going to bring all that is British to an end.
Its a long time since I really managed to finish a book in two sessions within 16 hours of starting it !Long time since I have read a novel with such pull and atmosphere .Very intriguing premise that has its own advantages .
Extremely suspenseful even though I already knew a little about the main enemy plot from reading too many reviews .
This book will stand a re-read as its very complex and Campion's amnesia makes it even more so.
Only thing is that at times I felt a bit exasperated with Campion's ide fix of keeping everything to himself when at least letting Amanda know would be good for the country he so deeply cares for.
I enjoyed this very much; the frantic quality of a person who has lost their memory come through very well. The edition I read came from the Hawthorn public library and was scored through by a pedant with a green pen. She, and I assume them to be a person like myself, was irritated by the lack of commas.
Read as part of Essential AllinghamStory was hard to start because AC was confused - and so was I. Especially difficult if read in small doses. I wondered if I missed/forgot something and paged back only to realize that I didn't miss anything - it just hadn't happened yet.Probably loved by AC fans.
World War Two is beginning. A man wakes up in a hospital not knowing who he is or where he came from. If I told you any more, I would give too much away. This is one of the best Campion stories; that should be enough to induce anyone to read it.
For much of the book, Campion has little or no memory of who he is, and what his mission is. And time is of the essence. In addition, he has the sense that he may have attacked a police officer and may be wanted. This Allingham starts with a bang.
