https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68842.The_Haunter_of_the_Dark
I never have liked them and I'm not sure I ever will, but Lovecraft seems to have them nailed to a T and I can't fault him.Everything Lovecraftian exists in this story: Diary entries from someone very interested in folklore and the occult; strange, unavoidable pulls towards odd locations or items, excitable over-active imaginations that are all too obsessed with The Other, and countless others besides.I personally think-and find that this accounts for my recently acquired fondness for Lovecraft-that his writing would never suite a novel-length piece of writing (she says not knowing if he did ever write a novel or not because she's too lazy to look it up).
Το εναρκτήριο διήγημα, ο Ξένος, με άφησε με το στόμα ανοιχτό να κοιτάζω αποσβολωμένος γύρω μου, ενώ το Κάλεσμα του Κθούλου (που αποτέλεσε και το κίνητρο να ασχοληθώ με τον συγγραφέα) αποτελεί το πλέον μακάβριο ανάγνωσμα που έχει πέσει ποτέ στα χέρια μου, κείμενο που ομολογώ πως αν το διάβαζα στα 20 μου, μετά τις πρώτες 5 σελίδες θα διάλεγα είτε να το σταματούσα είτε να το συνέχιζα μονάχα μέρα και κατά προτίμηση υπό την παρουσία παρέας.
What is so enthrallingly wonderful about Lovecraft, apart from his astonishing imagination, huge vocabulary, and his devotion to the antique, to the past, and the rich history of Rhose Island and New England, is that together his stories evoke a cohesive world.
It is a world that will draw you back, again and again, to share the secrets of Lovecraft's haunted outsiders.
For my money there is no greater author of supernatural fiction than Lovecraft, and the fictional world he creates, Arkham, is one of the most mysterious and thrilling literary creations I have encountered.Favourite stories include "The Colour Out Of Space," "The Strange, High House In The Mist," "The Case of Charles Dexter Ward," and of course, "The Call of Cthulhu."
THE HAUNTER OF THE DARK is almost a pastiche and written in homage to Robert Bloch, an eventful and engaging little outing.THE THING ON THE DOORSTOP builds from a slow start to a gruesome, Grand Guignol climax and has one of my favourite opening sentences in a story.
THE LURKING FEAR features loathsome fungoid horrors so can't really go wrong, and THE SHADOW OVER INNSMOUTH is so well known as to need no description; needless to say, it's a classic for a reason.Everything great about Lovecraft is collected in this volume, and I think you'd be hard pressed to find a better assortment of writing in one place.
Lovecraft’s prose, with his lingering use of adjectives, is quite evocative and has a very pleasing ‘pulp’ style. This collection contains most of his best stories, namely: ‘The Call of Cthulu’, ‘The Dunwich Horror’, ‘The Whisperer in Darkness’, ‘The Colour Out of Space’, ‘The Thing on the Doorstep’, ‘The Lurking Fear’, ‘The Shadow Over Innsmouth’ and ‘The Shadow Out of Time’. If you’ve never read any of Lovecraft’s work, these stories are a good place to start.
El libro El que susurra en la oscuridad (publicación original: The Haunter of the Dark, 1950) es una recopilación de varios relatos del autor, escritos y publicados a lo largo de un periodo de dieciséis años, representativos de diferentes momentos en la producción de Lovecraft y con variados contenidos, que no estilos, que tocan temas como una cripta oculta bajo una mansión, el arte hiperrealista e inquietante, las extrañas costumbres de una familia en un municipio de la costa este, los descubrimientos de los investigadores universitarios sobre algunas leyendas, los efectos de un meteorito en una granja, las consecuencias de un noviazgo poco recomendable y los increíbles poderes evocadores de algunas músicas.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
7/10*Review for 'The Haunter of the Dark & Other Stories' by Wordsworth EditionsAfter reading a few 
I can't say enough about Haunter of the Dark.
The story is about a man named Blake, who decides to break into an abandoned Church, despite the numerous warnings from his neighbors not to enter.
When Blake enters the Church, he encounters artifacts and books left behind by an Satantic cult which have a peculiar effect on him upon reading and inspecting them.
Before he knows it, he's being stalked by a dark beings out of space and time...and it eventually leads to everything from severe weather--and Blake's own doom.
In the beginning it was hard to read as Lovecraft can be a bit wordy in his descriptions ,but after getting over that,I was amazed at such a mind that could come up with these stories.
Not your usual horror story ,with monsters that are easy to identify,but ones that make you think and try to imagine in your mind just what the main character sees.
I recommend it for those who want a true glimpse of the kind of horror story that gave birth to such writers as King for instance.
Contains his best works. Over the top language with CYCLOPEAN, DEMONIAC and ALIENAGE championing the vocabulary. I can't explain why I love these tales so much but I do enough to revisit every year or so.
Several classic tales of eldritch and cosmic terrors from the haunter of Providence. A good introduction and overview of the Lovecraft canon, and the underlying philosophies of this master of horror, whose stories continue to inform and influence the genre today.
The first I read by him. I was stunned, and overjoyed that such a writer exsisted. Read it!
Brilliant horror tales.
I wouldn't know what the truth is, but it's also all too easy to believe in such.Robert Blake's dark quest brings the reader amazingly detailed descriptions of old town architecture, ancient churches with dark history, superstitious locals, investigation and detective work, sinister cults, creepy ancient books, aliens from beyond the stars, history lessons from times long before mankind, an ancient artifact that's changed hands many times and caused doom and chaos in its wake, unsettling and possibly supernatural nightmares, harrowing diary entries right before death, lightning storms, darkness, and of course, a Great Old One that mankind can't understand but that is undoubtedly sinister.
Most of the contents come from Lovecraft's later writing (which probably explains the significance of volume 3) so also mingles with some of his later dabblings with science fiction.The content is broad and ranges from his novellas (such 'Shadow over Innsmouth') to his most famous short stories (such as 'The Rat in the Walls' and of course 'The Call of Cthulhu').
It is a wonderful collection to dip and out of, and for those unfamiliar with Lovecrafts writings this is a perfectly good place to start.In the spirit of a balanced review, some criticism has to be made.
Academic writes diary about unbelievable event.
I'd have liked to see these short stories turned into longer works that had a more developed stories (and characters), and were fully developed novels in their own right.The stories reminded me of the warning English teachers gave my class in school.
Well in some of these stories, it felt like Lovecraft ran out of steam, and ended up writing "Well we bricked up the holes, and went on with our lives, but some of us had nightmares.", and you have no idea how much that profoundly irritated me after a while.
God Lovecraft is so good.
I came into this expecting some corny spooktacular horror novels like dracula, but hoh my!
I didn't expect it to be so..
I feel like i don't really have any more inputs that are any different then any others observations.
I feel Lovecraft is too nihilistic but I don't think the purposes of his stories should be about providing meaning.
I think what makes it work is the inherent horror of the idea of the meaningless of life.
If the Christian god is dead, if humans are just a passing phenomenon in the universe then the greatest cause of fear arrises.
Alright, I've been reading a lot of Lovecraft lately, and this is the last story of Lovecraft I will ever readLovecraft is not only not scary, but just plain badHis writing evokes his lack of understanding, and nothing elseHe doesn't understand people, cultures, races, artifacts, history, the passing of time, the sciences, etc.He writes about his lack of understanding of all of these things, because in his mind, he finds a lack of understanding of easily understandable things frighteningApparently, a very large number of people find these things scary as wellI find this very VERY appalling
A good selection of Lovecraft's stories.Most of these have links to his Cthulhu mythos, and feature sanity clawing horrors from beyond space and time.Some of them seem overly verbose, but if you're getting paid by the word then it's not surprising when an author crams in long descriptions. It's also the downfall of many stories as you can see the twists coming from a mile away.A good book for anyone who likes pulp-style horror.
This was an excellent compilation of a couple of Lovecraft stories—The Thing On The Doorstep and The Haunter Of The Dark—but even better, it also offers up Robert Bloch's bookending stories that come before (and inspired) Haunter and after, creating an interesting trilogy of stories by two masters.All in all, definitely one of the better entries in PS Publishing's pulp library series of Lovecraft stories.
incredible! i loved this ook and all the short stories. Lovecraft has the tendencie to keep me awake at nigth reading because for me it's completely unaxeptable to sleep with a lovecraft short story read just by the half
Pretty words that are mostly forgettable. The continued exploration of the Cthulhu mythos is enjoyable. The matter-of-fact reporting is monotonous. But the line between losing your mind and expanding your mind is intriguing.
It is a very disturbing and scary tale about a creature that haunts the darkness, and waits until there is no light to drive it away.
Creepy.
Equal parts spooky and racist. The Italians, the Catholics, and writers all took a beating in this one. Pretty much only Azathoth came out on top, and it's not like he's paying attention.
Very Lovecraftian, and that's fine by me!
Fun short read.
In the top 3 favorites for Lovecraft!
.Los sueños en la casa de la bruja: 4.El ser del umbral (leído anteriormente): 4.La sombra fuera del espacio: 3.El morador de las tinieblas: 3,5.El clérigo malvado: 2,5
Dated to say the least...
