https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31331.Blood_Canticle
Honestly, never in a million years had I ever imagined giving any of these books a 1 out of 5.
But Blood Canticle is like Anne Rice woke up one day, smelled the roses, opened the balcony doors to be greeted by the shouts of her adoring fans, and then proceeded to perch on the railing and shit on all of them.
Lestat is a pussy.
Lestat arguments, hide this and never use it in your arsenal.
This coming from a fan.One day, I will return and give a more coherent review other than "I'm bitter, this is a mockery of my favorite vampires".
I'm a long-time fan of The Vampire Chronicles as well as her tales of the Mayfair Witches, and my lust for this book, the one in which the two series merge, moved it to the top of my reading list.Oh, the horror.::: The Plot :::For those of you who are unfamiliar with Anne Rice's novels, there are two major series: one about vampires starring the Vampire Lestat, and the other about a family of witches.
As much of a die hard Anne Rice fan as I claim to be, I have yet to finish this book.
Supposedly it's the last she'll ever write in her vampire series.
I got about halfway through and wanted to throw the book across the room.
It's like a different person is writing..
and it seems like Anne just doesn't care about this series or the vampire world anymore.
Lestat saying the word 'dude' was pretty much the last straw.
This book just felt like a kick in the face for anyone who has loved her vampire series.
Theres not much I can say about this book that others havent already said, however I just have to vent about one thing Anne Rice increasingly does with her later books:Her feticisization of coloured people, especially creoles of the south.
And for the love of baby jesus STOP DESCRIBING OUR SKIN WITH DIFFERENT FLAVOURS OF CHOCOCOLATE.To sum up my frustration (which I apologize if it comes across as a little incoherent) Anne, there is no doubt in my mind you are a smart and well-read woman, as well as a master story teller despite my dissapoint with some of your novels.
Actually, she had been declining for a couple of books before that, but it was in Blackwood that I noticed the sharp drop in quality, which only drops even further with this book.Now, I know that Ms. Rice was going through a hard time.
For whatever reason, Ms. Rice decided she wasn't going to write more vampires since she found Jeebus all over again and is now gonna write Christian tripe, so she thought she'd end the Vampire Chronicles/Mayfair witches with this book that brings them together.
writers often get better, not worse.It is a huge shame that the Vampires and the Mayfair Witches had to end like this.
Anne Rice has said this is the last of the Vampire Chronicles, I'm not sure if this is the last of the Mayfair Witches, but this review is written under the belief that Blood Canticle is the end of both.
As I reached the end of the chronicles and the time came to read Blood Canticle I didn't want to.
While most of the plot was about Mona (her turning into a vamp, looking for the Taltos) poor Quinn fell by the wayside when he could have used more development considering the book Blackwood Farm just ended and how he was adjusting to the changes.
It's difficult to transport a reader into a world that cannot be researched, one created in entirety from the author's imagination.
Even the most indignant critic would surely agree Ms. Rice didn't just toss in the ingredients without glancing at the recipe.But, okay, admittedly, I, too, cringed when the author elected to introduce her main character to the slang term dude.
And, if I'm being totally transparent, this is one of the few Anne Rice novels I've read.
Perhaps if I'd picked up the book expecting to find myself lost in a Pulitzer-prize-worthy novel, I would have found it more disappointing.
It did not make me positively inclined towards this bookThen we have Lestat running through this strangely bizarre joyous ode to Catholicism, including shovelling over a lot of problematic issues (in a series that likes to make every character bisexual – well so long as their loves are under-aged – praising the church in glowing terms then throwing aside the homophobia as a 3 word bracketed reference is insulting) which then develops into a confused, incoherent ramble of Lestat wanting to be a saint and the Pope and the spiritual joys of an obscure saint that will keep popping up throughout the whole book without any real need or relevance (and it’s not like the books need more reasons to deviate).After all this (and a brief, strange idea of lecturing the pope that the super-rich and luxurious would totally save the world so why worry about wealth divides), we move towards the story.
Easily one of the single most awful books I've read. The writing was excruciating, the story ridiculous. This made me want to flee into the arms of Anne's earlier work, fold myself into the lush, lyrical writing of novels past, and dismiss this book and the one preceding it as cruel jokes; as nightmares; as phantoms I'd never need to acknowledge ever again. I'm very passionate about the fact that the end of this series is dead to me. I'd just as soon pretend trees had never been felled to print this trash.This is not Anne Rice.
The peak of Anne Rice's breakdown - this is basically an excuse for long-atheist characters to pound their fists about religion, to ruminate on how the former, late Pope is doing, and generally a way to pretend that whatever random assortment of stuff she was thinking about/interested in during the few months she spent writing this made a story if all compressed together.Famous for her getting on Amazon and blasting people who gave it a bad review.
Can vampires be redeemed?
Oh my god, if he asks this question one more time, just kill him for good and put him out of his angst.
Is Anne putting a little too much of her own insecurity into her vampires?Redeemed from what?
Surviving on human blood?
Can humans be redeemed for eating red meat?
It's the blood of another species, after all.
One book, was good.
2 or 3, and I still didn't ask why vampires around since before Christianity would be obsessed with christian principles like redemption.
Apparently not, it's like watching a hamster run in a wheel for years and years.
It's nothing like her other ones, and I get the honest feeling that she just wanted to finish the entire vampire chronicle series, and mayfair witch series by wrapping up all the loose ends together in one book.
But above all, I'm sick to death of Rowan Mayfair, and it sickens me even more that this woman, who is lackluster, boring, and described as cold and rigid, is the fall of Lestat.
After the first mayfair book, I was already bored with her, she was idealized far too much, descriptions of her only said how tremendous a person she was, but her character never struck me the way others did.
So here I finished last book of Vampire Chronicles.
First pages made me laugh how childish Lestat acts.
But I started to miss good old Lestat.
He changed over all books.
That was the most interesting part of the book.
I enjoyed reading how they look like, how they act, their history.
The plot was great too, I think it was a book mostly full of action of all Vampire Chronicles.
I missed good old characters.
And the end of book?
In fact, it's a book that isn't easy to read.
But I very liked it because of so much action and something complitely new.
What a disappointing conclusion to the Vampire Chronicles and the tales of the Mayfair witches and the Taltos.
The writing is terrible, the characters behave in bizarre and inconsistent ways, the text is full of errors, and the plot is full of holes.
What happened to the Talamasca's declaration of enmity against the vampires?
I should have known this one would be terrible when it began with a tirade, via Lestat, about the fact that no one liked Memnoch the Devil and pointed out that that book had outsold all of the other chronicles.
Despite having had to consciously try hard to get used to Blackwood Farm, I was sure Rice would write a book that would make this whole set end in a satisfying way.
Now, I understand that Rice went through a lot of hard things that anyone reading this review would probably already know about, and that she is an emotional writer in the first place, which is a good thing as far as her process is concerned (I think she uses it very well, usually).
What the hell did I just read??? This is not the Lestat I know! This adds nothing to the vampire canon! I mean, by god! I cant with all the taltos thing. I JUST CAN'T. Those are some weird ass things that I couldn't help but feel repulsed by them. AND ALL THE FUCKING BOOK IS ABOUT THEM!If Blackwood Farm was a let down with all the switch of focus on a character I didn't know and couldn't bring myself to care about throughout the book,this is a major setback for me. I mean, those taltos things ar
AND ALL THE FUCKING BOOK IS ABOUT THEM!If Blackwood Farm was a let down with all the switch of focus on a character I didn't know and couldn't bring myself to care about throughout the book,this is a major setback for me.
No wonder the black Mayfairs don't want to be involved with them!I really hope Prince Lestat doesn't have any Mayfair (or Taltos for that matter), according to the summary it brings back all the (vampire) characters in the canon and doesn't mention any Mayfair witch and stuff, it may be a come back to the right path.
To call this book part of the "Vampire Chronicles" is a misnomer.
It was sort of about his two new fledgling vampires, Quinn Blackwood and Mona Mayfair.
However, I say "sort-of" because it mainly focused on spirits/ghosts, the Mayfair witches/mortals, and an alien species - The Taltos.
Rice attempts to force a tangent about Lestat's love for mortal Rowan Mayfair down your throat at the very end of the book to cover up for the fact that she hasn't written about Lestat much at all.
I much prefer the true blooded vampire-only Rice books.
I didn't get all up in arms about this book because I read the last three books in the Chronicles long after the brouhaha had died down, but I still have to nominate Mona Mayfair for most annoying book character of the past century. I didn't think this book was the worst thing ever written by Rice (see: Violin) but neither was it as good as the two that came right before it.
This is where Anne Rice and I became no longer "friends"...she cast aside this series in such a poor way it was insulting to her fans...very insulting. I wish I could give it 1/2 a star. And it only gets 1/2 a star on the coat tails of the good books and my love of the characters prior to this..
Every so often I work my way through this series again and I found myself reading the Vampire Chronicles for about the fifth time, as a friend of mine who had never read any of Ms. Rice’s work asked me to ‘buddy read’ them with her.
The last few months have been fun, bringing up memories from the other times I’ve read them, plus now creating new ones with our ‘buddy read’.I can’t believe I had never left a review for any of these books before, but sometimes I get so caught up in reading that I forget to leave a review.
Lestat deambula por Blackwood Farm peleandose con Julien y alucinando con ser santo, Quinn está de adorno, no parece tener otro objetivo q seguir a Mona; Michael y Rowan se pasan todo el libro crispados y sinceramente me gustaría leer en libro Mayfair en el q Rowan no termine enamorada de cuanto macho de cualquier especie - vivo, no muerto, espíritu - q se cruce en su camino.Terminé este libro x puro capricho...pero ahora miro hacia atrás y me doy cuenta que nunca voy a recuperar las horas q perdí.
Segurísimo q me habría divertido más.Si alguna vez se topan con este libro, metan reversa, a velocidad crucero, HUYAN!!!!!!
Reread
@ P.S. I love that book!EXPECTATIONS: Previous book Blackwood Farm was best book of Anne I have ever read.
But wait do you remember that Stuart's Lestat we all loved in Queen of The Damned movie?
I am sorry if I sound harsh but this book robbed me of my precious time and forever ruined Vampire Chronicles for me.CHARACTERS: I am ashamed of ever liking Lestat, really.
Lestat imagines he is a center of the world and all must love him, that is the kind of romance we have.
@ P.S. I love that book!
Although knowing later Anne Rice, I am sure it contained a mixture of everything she could think of to create shock value, said mixture thrown against the wall, and Anne Rice just hoping that something would stick.
Wait...what if I created a novel with vampires, witches, ghosts, AND taltos?
And what is sad is that your fans will still keep reading your books praying for a miracle that will never come.
She really needs to just start over and see if she can redeem herself with a completely different series that doesn't have every supernatural creature and the kitchen sink in it.
This latest installment of Rice's "Vampire Chronicles" begins with a ranting soliloquy from the infamous vampire Lestat as he addresses readers of the previous books.
The entire first chapter is taken up with nonsense that has nothing to do with the story, and then the novel's basic plot begins where Blackwood Farm ended.
In that novel, Quinn Blackwood's unique voice narrated; unfortunately, in this sequel it is a boorish Lestat who tells the tale.
In order to save the dying Mona Mayfair, whom Quinn loves, Lestat bestows the dark kiss, making her one of the undead.
This is not one of Rice's better efforts.
Do not read this book if you are very attached to the Mayfair Trilogy as it was.
This book alters the direction of the trilogy completely, and you might not like where it goes -- I know I didn't.
Overall, the story is interesting enough to finish the book, and if you've been hungry for the continuation of the story, you won't be able to stop yourself.
There are, however, some awful AWFUL paragraphs when Lestat is speaking to the reader that made me sad that Anne Rice decided to include Mona, Rowan and Michael in this mess.
Shame on you, Anne, Michael Curry deserved better!
I've read this twice now.
Contrary to popular opinion, I think it is very good.
No, it's not her best work, but I love both the Vampire Chronicles and The Mayfair Witches, so this was a great crossover.
Rice puts so much of herself into her novels and we see Lestat struggling with eternal philosophical questions and deep religious theological issues.
This will turn off some readers, but for me it gave a very poetic and thoughtful picture of the supernatural.
I'm sad to see my favorite vampires go, but I am also very understanding of the personal struggles and tough decisions Anne has had to make as an author.
No sé si sea el mejor libro de la saga, pero es el más llevadero. La lectura de este libro es muchísimo más ágil que en los anteriores. En pocas páginas recapitula toda la saga con el típico humor sarcástico de Lestat que dice que quiere ser Dios. Y luego se mete en la historia sin dar más vueltas.Me encanta, es mi preferido de las Crónicas Vampíricas.
I loved the first vampire chronicles and the Mayfair witches story. She was draging the vampire stories a bit too long with all the individual books afterwards. But this one is really a waste of space. There's nothing left of the magnificent Lestat, there's no plot and no meaning to this construction. Horrible and bloodless. On the plus side, I payed 10 cents for it.
Great Halloween read!
