https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30929.Decline_and_Fall
(Instead, we mingle with the complex & the pseudo-complex.)Like Jude (of "Obscure" fame), our main man struggles to live within a system (in the novel, prep schools and jails are synonymous) which rules his existence.
Of the roles they play, of their important or negligible lives, of the upstairs/downstairs never ending bullshit...
The masterful touches of a true novelist like Waugh (one of the quintessential writers of British lit.) though, lie in the factual certainty that the real world of today and tomorrow is pretty much the same as 1920's-30's England, with all its citizens perpetually cast in chicken-minus-head roles roaming about on a fickle pyramid.
Miss Pettigrew on page 162 of that book offers some advice to Miss LaFosse, who is trying to choose between two suitors :"Now the first one, he was kind too," said Miss Pettigrew earnestly, "but well, my dear.
I guess the greater you are the more leeway you get.) The act of reading is a pasodoble between the author and the reader in which sometimes the author stumbles and sometimes the reader and sometimes they’re both flat on their backs.BUT ANYWAYDecline and Fall doesn’t break the 4th P Bryant Rule of Novels which says Authors Under Thirty Do Not Write Great Books (Waugh was 25 when he wrote this).
Still wryly amusing now, but I have trouble imagining how this book was received when it was first published as the buying of books was beyond the means of many working and middle class households at the time and I doubt the upper classes, perched in their wing-back chairs in the library would be slapping their leg, wiping a tear from their eye and ringing for butler to bring them another sherry while they mused on the satirical dissections of their class put forward by young Mr Waugh.As an aside, it occurred to me while reading this that David Mitchell (he of the Cloud Atlas) probably bloody loved this book, simply for the way all the characters are interwoven and keep cropping up again in different roles and different locations.
This is my first Evelyn Waugh and I will be reading more, although I suspect the author finds salvation through religion more than I.This was the author's first published novel.
The book draws on the author's own school years, undergraduate studies and years as a teacher at Arnold House in northern Wales.Do not listen to the audiobook narrated by Michael Maloney, as I did!
I do not think it is fair to lower a book's rating because the audiobook narration is poor.
Maloney's reading has an uneven tempo.
I have listened to this narrator read other books.
I've just finished this book and look, read it.
It is a delight from start to finish.
In an odd way it reminds me of O Lucky Man - the Lindsay Anderson film.
It also reminded me of Monty Python at their best, no, at their very best.
Ok, so perhaps some of the social stereotypes don't really exist anymore, but that would be like not reading Wodehouse because no one has a man servant anymore.
Decline and Fall is an amusing story, told with great wit, and filled with astute social commentary. Unfortunately the commentary is quite particular to its place and time period. I could not really sustain my interest and enjoyment beyond about a third of the way through. It all got a bit too much.
This biting satire has deadpan dark humor, a protagonist whose detached observations serve the plot well, and an ending that is depressingly stark in its view of our human nature.This novel reminds me greatly of Voltaire's "Candide" in its themes, plotting, and characterization.
Read this text for the humor, but stay alert to the nuggets just beneath the surface and you will get a fuller experience.Some readers may have trouble with the British colloquialisms that Waugh uses, but most can be figured out from context.I will be exploring more of this writer.
Ugh how great is this? Waugh's biting satire of his time and class is just *heart eyes emoji*. This is a lot funnier than I expected it so be, although it is very much British humour (which I love) so it may be lost on a lot of people. It's sort of like a comical Clockwork Orange mixed with Anderson's If.... Basically it's a Malcolm McDowell film (but nothing like Caligula). It's really very good. It's my first Waugh and I need more! He may be a new favourite.
Whereas the latter left me utterly disappointed - to the point I left that book half-read - this novel turned out to be far more brilliant than I thought.It's funny to notice how Mr. Beerbohm was chiefly a caricaturist who toyed with literature while young Evelyn Waugh was exactly the opposite.And I believe both men made the right choice in sticking to what they did best later in their life.'Decline and Fall' was published in 1928 as an 'illustrated novelette', but Waugh's sparse cartoons are amateurish and clumsy when compared to his brilliant flourished words.In fact, among the novelists I have been reading, only the Swiss author Friedrich Durrenmatt had a worse inclination to figurative art than Waugh did.So much for Evelyn Waugh's early aborted career as an awful cartoonist.Shall we focus on his writing?
Decline and Fall was Evelyn Waugh's first novel, and the first novel of his (that's right, Kelly, Evelyn's a man) that I read.
My enjoyment of Decline and Fall suffered from my preconceptions, which were actually misconceptions.What I wanted to read, what I was hoping to read, was something a bit more like Brideshead Revisited.
The whole experience was like eating a hamburger when craving roast beef.
If I'd known what I was getting into when I cracked the book, I would have liked it immensely, but unfulfilled expectations -- like mine with Decline and Fall -- can be the death of any piece of entertainment.

It's funny, but the racism ruins it.
Poor Paul Pennyfeather.
He falls for the mother of one of his students and takes the enviable position of being the boy's private tutor.
Will Paul spend the rest of his life in jail?
I won't give away rest of the story, but I rooted for Paul until the very end.
He continually tosses obstacles into his characters' paths and lets them stumble around, getting deeper and deeper into trouble, all for our amusement.
I laughed out loud and won't soon forget Paul Pennyfeather's exploits.
If you enjoy the "comedy of manners" stylings of P.G. Wodehouse and Noel Coward, you'll enjoy Decline and Fall.
Clearly I lack the required level of sensibility to appreciate Waugh.
If you think there is nothing better than a snazzily dissolute aristocrat then this is the satire for you.It romps from Bullingdon Club style antics at Oxford via cut price private schools, white slavery, prison and back again.
The hero learns nothing, but is simply spun round full circle on Fortune's wheel.What is earnest is for Waugh laughable and comes in for punishment or abuse whether that be the League of Nations or Prison reformers.
But the rakish, so long as they are blue-blooded, will survive and thrive.Being of a tragically earnest disposition myself Waugh sharpens my appreciation for Madame Guillotine as an agent for social improvement.
I had not expected to find it as good or as easy to read as it ended up being.
The plot follows the story of Paul Pennyweather who within the first 2 pages is forced to leave oxford university through no fault of his own.
I love a school novel and this was an interesting one.
The ending was brilliant I was so motivated to read those last few pages!
The section where also more fun to read as you could see the shifts in class and how each time the event ended it was a significant point.
This is an absurd story of a young man, expelled (or "sent down") from Oxford for indecent behaviour, who obtains a job as a teacher at a less than salubrious third-rate public school in Wales and is then entrapped in a series of bizarre events that take him on a rollercoaster ride through upper-class circles.
I was a little disappointed by the latter half of the book, the rollercoaster speeds up, and it does feel rushed and a little too contrived by the final chapters.
But this is Waugh's first novel, so a minor issue in the overall context of the amusing storylines and entertaining characters.Embarassingly, I caught myself laughing out loud in public to this book.
Reading 'Decline and Fall' which I probably read while I was at Oxford, and generally a fan of Waugh's use of language I was preparing myself for a treat.
Try reading this without your stomach turning: 'I think it's an insult bringing a nigger here,' said Mrs Clutterbuck.
'It's an insult to our own women.''Niggers are all right,' said Philbrick.
'Where I draw the line is a Chink, nasty inhuman things.
I had a pal bumped off by a Chink once.
An elegant retelling of Voltaire's Candide, Waugh's first novel, Decline and Fall (1928) recounts the misfortunes that plague Paul Pennyfeather, from his dismissal from Oxford for "indecent behavior," to a miserable term as master at a public school, to his disastrous betrothal to a wealthy socialite, and finally to his incarceration, death, and resurrection.
Decline and Fall is a quick read, and mostly entertaining, though the humor at times is too dated to elicit much laughter, and some of the attitudes so blackly satirized by Waugh have mercifully fallen to the side.
An improbable, but comic, tale of Paul Pennyfeather, wrongly sent down from Oxford, and his subsequent adventures as a teacher in a very dubious private school, love with an older heiress, prison and Reggie-Perrin style "death".This was Waugh's first novel, but in places it's like a caricature of his (not yet written) "Brideshead Revisited".
Not for me. I didn't realise this was going to be quite so farcial when I started it. The writing was good, but nothing seemed to hit the right note, nothing was funny (although I'm not very good with funny books anyway). Actually, even though Waugh was clearly trying to poke fun at the attitudes of the English aristocracy in the 1920s, I found the racism offensive.
A delightfully savage satire on the English public school system. When a young man is de-pantsed as part of an upperclass prank, he is "sent down" and finds a job at a Welsh public school. He winds up being a Candide-type of character as he winds up in prison and finally breaks out into the clear.
Filled with lighthearted solemnity, Waugh's first novel signals a rise.
A puredee delight. One of the funniest novels I've ever read.
There are further reflections of what it all means - there are several references to suicide here and there, but also to some form of renewal, as in the many lives of Grimes, Philbrick and Fagan, not to mention Paul himself and Margot.
Had he not moved unseen when darkness covered the waters?EDIT: if you are young, or non-British, or both, I recommend an annotated edition (I had the Penguin one, which I am happy to recommend) that can explain the many implicit references to people, places, politics, etc.
Evelyn Waugh's first novel, Decline and Fall, is a delightful satiric comedy.
He is sent down from Oxford and as a result takes a position at the Llanabba school in Wales.
In this episode and others I encountered the author's not so subtle satire and characteristic black humor in lampooning various features of British schools and society in the 1920s.
The novel's title is a contraction of Edward Gibbon's The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.
Waugh read both Gibbon and Spengler while writing his first novel.
Waugh's first novel is a wonderful satirical dark comedy, with no shortage of humorous characters.
Be prepared for some racist and plenty of politically incorrectness.
Paul Pennyfeather is sent down from Scone College for 'indecent behavior' and is disowned by his guardian.
In need of money, he manages to get a job as a teacher at Llanabba, a small boys school in Wales.
At Llanabba, Paul finds his own method of getting along with the boys and faculty members, often with hilarious results.

Very funny…very quirky…then a bit thought provoking.
The Welsh take a big hit--from the language to a band that only can play "Men of Harlech." The "N-word" is used conspicuously in one chapter, but the joke turns out to be on anyone who is offended.
Schoolmasters, and the British schools system -- and their relation to the English class system -- are ridiculed hilariously throughout.
I believe this was Waugh's first book; written while he was a schoolmaster, hating the job.
As Waugh imagines it, there are horrible things better than being a schoolmaster.
Writing gems of novels such as this was better too, and much more amusing.
Beccato a vagare per i cortili in mutande, viene espulso dal college - il cui gotha tra amministratori e docenti, tra l’altro, era solo preoccupato del fatto che ad andarci di mezzo non fosse qualche figlio di un Lord.Dunque Paul, privato anche della rendita familiare (il tutore approfitta ovviamente dell’espulsione del giovane per esautorarlo dall’entrare in possesso dei suoi beni, vincolati al conseguimento di un titolo universitario), si trova a fare il professore in una sperduta scuola del Galles.
Da qui in poi, è tutta una serie di situazioni paradossali e personaggi strambi che accompagneranno Paul nella sua caduta (il declino era iniziato a Oxford) dalla quale risorgerà in modo alquanto originale.
Think of Edward of Caernarvon, the first Prince of Wales, a perverse life...and an unseemly death, then the Tudors and the dissolution of the Church, then Lloyd George, the temperance movement, Nonconformity and lust stalking hand in hand through the country, wasting and ravaging." Can't argue really....If you think of Waugh as Brideshead, repressed sexuality and country house psychosexual drama, Decline And Fall will disabuse you.
