https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129237.A_Theory_of_Justice
Yet his oblique approach does take on its precepts, as I‘ll mention later.A Theory of Justice takes up a problem that goes back to the Enlightenment: If rights inure to individual persons, what role can society really play in our lives?
The author construes justice from a Kantian standpoint and employs principles such as universalizability to make Rawls’s theory one that guarantees justice at the start, as opposed to one in which justice arises contingently from later developments.The author dials us back to the state of nature, the famous theoretical starting point of Locke and Rousseau from which a society somehow must emerge.
Here Rawls’s distinctive concept of the veil of ignorance comes into play.Rawls advocates an objective and rational social contract theory.
A long involved theory of justice - create a society where you would be treated fairly, if you do not know what position you would occupy in such a society.
The book that I wound up reading most often in college (my major was Ethics, Politics and Economics). It shaped my worldview and politics perhaps more than any other book ever. I am elevating it from 4 stars to 5 stars because of that, in spite of the fact that it can be a bit of a slog. With this book, Rawls reignited political theory after a period during which not much of anything new had been said for decades, but he's not exactly a brilliant prose stylist.
First, there's his seriously questionable method invoking the "veil of ignorance," which is just a spiffier version of the easy-to-discredit social contract theory.
OK, so first you're assuming all the assumptions that Western post-Enlightenment classical-liberals have, and then using those assumptions to inform a spurious thought experiment.
So why am I unsurprised that you're assuming further that the subjects of that thought experiment "naturally" have a Western post-enlightenment classical-liberal concept of justice and morality?
Although I have to say, I'm pissed at the majority of GoodReads readers who reviewed this because it offends their even more ignorant libertarian/American individualist perspectives.
This book came out of the debates in the Seventies between Rawls a defender of the postwar welfare state and later in the decade Robert Nozick who defended the (right wing) Libertarian conception of society in "Anarchy, State, and Utopia".
Rawls theory of Justices is an exercise in the Lockean social contract tradition with the idea of the society and its conception of justice put together by its members by agreeing on principles which the society is to be based.
This is not a change in the theory, Rawls would argue, since he holds that if the least advantaged are benefited, so will everyone else.The general conception of justice, Rawls claims, applies to a society in which the social conditions of some restrict them from exercising their basic liberties.
Only when the conditions of the Liberty Principle have been met does the Principle of Fair Equality of Opportunity come into play, and so on.The reason for dividing the theory into the general and special conceptions of justice, as touched upon earlier, is that unless a level of adequate social conditions is reached, people cannot make use of their basic liberties.
It also helps if you've had a basic course in philosophy, or have recently read a book like Michael Sandel's Justice, because the book will be very hard going if you don't have at least a glimmer of an idea about utilitarianism or Kantianism.
I think it would be more accurate to say that most modern American liberals have a set of intuitions about justice that happen to dovetail pretty well with Rawls's philosophy.
It's just a bit disappointing to read a 500+ page book on justice, and find that there are still lots of hard questions left to be answered.
بخش اول کتاب به توجیه شرایط آغازین و دلایل ترجیح دو اصل عدالت به دیگر نظریه های سنت فلسفه اخلاقی اختصاص یافته است.
در بخش پایانی کتاب رالز بررسی می کند که آیا سرشت انسان بگونه ای است که امکان عملی شدن برداشت عدالت به مثابه انصاف را فراهم آورد یا نه.نقاط ضعف: استدلال رالز بسیار طویل و دراز است و گاها ارتباط بین مباحث ارائه شده چندان روشن نیست.
Although he's liberalism's pet philosopher, the important concepts in this book are completely misguided: http://nooilforpacifists.blogspot.com... Not understanding economics, he basises justice on a "fairness" (the famous "veil of ignorance") dis-coupled from economic reality and markets. It fails to account for progress, productivity, and the possibility of change. In the end, Rawls was neither a philosopher, nor a moralist--he was a liberal scold, who (regrettably) lives on providing aid and comfort to extreme movements such as "Occupy Wall Street" and environmental "back-to-the-Stone Age" doomsayers.
צדק, צדק תרדוף (דברים, ט"ז, כ) בדצמבר 2010 יצא לאור, בשעה טובה, התרגום הראשון לעברית של התיאוריה שהשפיעה על המחשבה הפוליטית והחברתית ב- 30 שנים האחרונות מאז פרסומה בצורתה המקורית בשנת 1971. כמו כל תיאוריה פוליטית וכלכלית אחרת שמגיעה אלינו מארה"ב, לקח קצת זמן אבל הינה היא כאן בצורתה המתוקנת והמעודכנת "צדק כהוגנות", הצגה מחודשת הכוללת מענה למבקרים ומקטרגים של התיאוריה המקורית שפירסם רולס בספרו שחולל מהפכה מחשבתית – "Theory of Justice". אם כן, מהו צדק? האם לדוגמא הענישה של הפוגע בשחר גרינשפן, שאחות
כמו כל תיאוריה פוליטית וכלכלית אחרת שמגיעה אלינו מארה"ב, לקח קצת זמן אבל הינה היא כאן בצורתה המתוקנת והמעודכנת "צדק כהוגנות", הצגה מחודשת הכוללת מענה למבקרים ומקטרגים של התיאוריה המקורית שפירסם רולס בספרו שחולל מהפכה מחשבתית – "Theory of Justice".
גם במקרה זה רולס טוען שההסדרים של משטר זה גם לא מקדמים את עקרונות הצדק של "צדק כהוגנות" כי הוא מתיר פערים נרחבים מאוד בבעלות על קיניין וכך השליטה בכלכלה ובחלק מהחיים הפוליטיים נותרת בידים מצומצמות.
John Rawls presents the reader with a thought experiment based on the social contract, original position, and his very own "veil of ignorance." So this thought experiment is a hypothetical situation that is really just a very dull gambling scheme where the players must make decisions about the structure of society.
It's possible that John Rawls does more to defend his position in later works or that I did not pay heed to some of his defenses within this book.
Ok, I didn't read all of this one.
Basically he argues that society should be based in a way that any good should help everyone.
Against exploitation of the poorest for the benefit of the rich, which is a fair argument.
However, he also argues that growth should not happen just for the rich while leaving the poor behind.
His political theory is however integral to understanding the trend of government over the past 50-60 years.
Rawls tries to explain and quantify and give name to the theories of justice behind the workings of the time.
He calls his theory justice as fairness.
On page 432 of this hefty work, Rawls writes:"Imagine someone whose only pleasure is to count blades of grass in various geometrically shaped areas such as park squares and well-trimmed lawns. He is otherwise intelligent and actually possesses unusual skills, since he manages to survive by solving difficult mathematical problems for a fee. The definition of the good forces us to admit that the good for this man is indeed counting blades of grass, or more accurately, his good is determined by a plan that gives an especially prominent place to this activity..."So much for a 'thin-conception' of the good.
If Rawls had understood expected utility theory this book would be better -- and unrecognisable. His response to decision making under uncertainty is iconoclastic, and absurd.
Assuming the framework of institutions required by equal liberty and fair equality of opportunity, the higher expectations of those better situated are just if and only if they work as part of a scheme which improves the expectations of the least advantaged members of society p75.True to the origins of these ideas in Hobbes, Locke and Rousseau, the principles of social justice and therefore the social contract itself is understood as having created “the basic structure of society”, “They are to govern the assignment of rights and duties and to regulate the distribution of social and economic advantages” p61 So he does not concern himself with small scale social institutions such as families, firms, villages, cities and the like.
Read this while writing my Ph.D. thesis back in 1998. Time flies.
It's crazy what you can make out of rationalism. Read the first chapter in order to get a rough summary of what in principle the theory consists in. It's a very impressive book that picks up some substantive argumentations further down the road, but still it's not quite my cup of tea.
The reasons are threefold:1) Rawlsian justice, as a concept, was hugely influential at the time and is still influential today.2) In historical terms, Rawls' theory gave left-liberals everywhere a much more solid philosophical basis to their egalitarian leanings.3) Just read it, or nobody will pay attention to you in discussions of contemporary philosophy.My reasoning for the 3 star rating is that the style is so poor as to make it a real struggle to get through the entire volume.
Rawls' development is the veil of ignorance - essentially a social contract based on the Golden Rule.
Now set up a system of justice that you'd be okay with whether you're a Yale-educated white male earning $200k a year or somebody from Nickel and Dimed, or (in a grimmer example from the 1940s) a blond-haired, blue-eyed member of the Master Race or a Jew. You don't set minimum wage at $1/hour and you don't make it legal to gas minorities because you might turn out to be on the receiving end when the veil is lifted.
The problem with the veil of ignorance is that it gets lifted - and when self-interest is your philosophical foundation, it doesn't just magically disappear on the back end.
Too bad he quickly abandons Kant and instead creates something more similar to rule consequentialism.
2. Rawls does make a good alternative to something like Nozick and demolishes most of the right wing libertarians most cherished ideas.
However, this is really just a good cop bad cop situation.
While Nozick gives us an essentially egoist consequentialism with "side constraints" Rawls basically gives us rule utilitarianism.
So we get no foundation for rights only an idea that citizens should get equal liberty to others.
Like rule consequentialism it looks like Rawls's theory just morphs into whatever is convenient based on the situation.
First published around 1970, it is the fountainhead of the modern renaissance of political philosophy and theory which is still going strong four decades later.
Rawls identifies two principles of justice.Even those who reject Rawls' argument on a variety of grounds will find some pages of deeply interesting and insightful comments, and for those who are comfortable with his fundamentally Kantian perspective and style of argumentation, moving on to his later restatements and refinements of the basic view will be very attractive.
In particular, see Justice As Fairness: A Restatement.The influence of A Theory of Justice only continues to grow.
Have only skimmed it - need help in understanding it so have bought Rawls by Freeman who is apparently an expert.
My OU Masters Course is helping me to understand it more thoroughly - it does present difficulties for the current conservative libertarian approach.
About to start his later works where he apparently clarifies many of his ideas.
As a starting point for a fully systematic approach to creating a more complete normative theory of political society it cannot be beaten.
Thank you Mr Rawls for bringing political philosophy back into fashion.
"What is needed, then, is not a general paciﬁsm but a discriminating conscientious refusal to engage in war in certain circumstances. States have not been loath to recognize paciﬁsm and to grant it a special status. The refusal to take part in all war under any conditions is an unworldly view bound to remain a sectarian doctrine. It no more challenges the state’s authority than the celibacy of priests challenges the sanctity of marriage."
And they say that America, like Rome, has no indigenous philosophy!Oddly, this is considered a classic, even though Rawls doesn't really answer any of his own questions, but uses a handy thought experiment to avoid doing so. That said, I feel like he establishes a better basis for government than any of the European competition. That's amazing, but this book is still ponderous and boring as shit.
What is justice? Plato addressed this question in his epic work "The Republic." John Rawls explores this question more recently. His is acclaimed as a major work on the subject. It has produced considerable debate in philosophical circles. He uses the metaphor af a "veil of ignorance" as his starting point in exploration. An important essay on the subject of justice. . . .
Difficult to read, but worth the effort, as the idea of a veil of ignorance is very interesting. Rawls takes pain to elaborate his idea, which is good, but it takes quite some effort to read. I don't know if this is due to his style, the subject or just me. The references to Aristotle, Hegel and Freud are surprising, but i guess these were the days...
While I don't subscribe to John Rawls theories I have to recognize the genius that he is. Changed the way I look at things, but not my opinion of what social justice really is.
کتابی که به خواندنش میارزید. ایدهای جذاب داشت و برای اقتصاد و سیاست و.... مسیری نشان میداد. در حلقه خواندیم
کتابی که به خواندنش می‌ارزید. ایده‌ای جذاب داشت و برای اقتصاد و سیاست و.... مسیری نشان می‌داد. در حلقه خواندیم
not for the faint of mind!
If only the world actually ran according to the principles of justice that Rawls envisions.
