https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84054.The_Stars_Shine_Down
In 1992, Sidney Sheldon wrote his first attempt to build a skyscraper by his well-know protagonist, Lara Cameron, by writing an interesting yet claimable masterpiece as she journey through man's world, real estate.Lara Cameron, born in Nova Scotia, her mother died in childbirth with her twin and her hopeless dad took care of her, or maybe not.
When her father died, she realized she have to face the future, the strength that she needed must be zipped off from her so she face her greatest challenge, to dominate man's world, real estate.As she venture through years, meeting people, enemies and friends, losing them one by one, building skyscrapers, parks, condominiums and etc.
Read in a day! Even though we didn't get a full closure and there were some minor inconsistencies, I loved it :)
Ascending from a past she looks to subdue, she accomplishes her most out of control aspiration, making a quite begrudged business domain.
At that point, overnight, every one of that has gone some time recently, her fortune, her accomplishments, and her marriageeverythingis at hazard.
It is Philip Adler who offers Lara an energizing new world, yet at an overwhelming value that undermines to decimate them both.
From Scotland to Nova Scotia, New York to London, Rome to Reno, The Stars Shine Down is exemplary Sidney Sheldon, highlighting the startling stuns and astounding astonishments a huge number of perusers have generally expected and cherish.
this is like an adult The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo EXCEPT this time the woman gets famous because of her ruthlessness and cleverness (she’s a real estate agent), not her hot bodybut it’s a bit straighter, whiter and more sexist (it was written by a man over two decades ago)3.75
ειναι καποιοι συγγραφεις που οτι και να γραψουν θα καταφερουν να μας αγγιξουν...δεν ξερω πως ακριβως γιντε αυτο...θα πω απλα οτι εχουμε χημεια..ενας τετοιος ειναι για μενα ο sheldon ...μπορει να γραψει ενα θεμα το οποιο να μου ειναι παντελως αδιαφορο και να καταφερει να μου το δωσει τοσο εξυπνα και με τετοιο τροπο που να θελω να μαθω τα παντα γιαυτο!για ακομα μια φορα ζωγραφισε!η αληθεια ειναι πως δεν πηγε το μυαλο μου στο ποιος ηταν ο κακος της υποθεσης και εμεινα λιγο με το στομα ανοιχτο οταν αλλον περιμενα και αλλος ηταν τελικα!αγαπω sheldon τελος
The boarding house is where Lara starts to become more independent - while her father nearly died (unfortunately in a bad way) resting in a hospital, Lara was the one who went around to help collect dues owed and replaced her father's position.
What is inspiring about this novel is that a woman's inner strength is so strong that others can't help but stop to admire and respect her.I feel that Lara has many good and strong points.
But it's Sidney's story, so I give him that right to tell his story and develop characters any way he wanted to.2.) In this story, Sidney had proven himself once again as a "Wizard of Words." As a writer myself, I admire authors who can actually write detailed sex scenes without being too vulgar.
This is the only book that had done that to me, Sheldon being the only author.
"The stars shine down and watch us live our little lives and weep for us..."4.) Some twists in the story were like fallacies.
یکی از محرک های من در دوران نوجوانی که باعث علاقه ام به معماری شد
Stunningly beautiful Lara Cameron on her fortieth birthday, having just lost her fame and fortune as foremost (only female) building developer in Chicago, then New York, her name plastered on the highest deluxe hotels and offices, reviews her life.
Her Chicago banker Howard Keller falls in love, but she treats him as an employee.
She privately helps employees with health problems, but lies and connives to get deals done, making a bad enemy of competing developer Steve Murchison.
I foresee trouble with Paul, and am tired of her pate and champagne, private jets and hoity toity lifestyle.
(view spoiler)[Philip hospitalized after an attack, Lara blames Paul.
The book can be roughly divided into 2 parts. 1st part is all about the rags to riches story about the main character, which is quite entertaining (with shades of 'Master of the Game') 2nd part is all about parties, concerts, more parties, conspiracies & a really tame endingIt could have been really great but not disappointing. A page turner. So 3 stars.
One of the reasons why I like Shidney Sheldon's books is because he usually has strong women protagonist and this book did too.
The story portrays Lara as a firm, nononsense ambitious woman who does "anything" to get her job done.
Like the usual Shidney Sheldon stories, the protagonist faces difficult situations, connects with the Mafia, becomes ridiculously rich, makes friends and enemies too.
I liked how the author portrayed the background story of prime characters and described Lara's success vividly.Compared to other books, by Sheldon, this was an average one.
I liked the ending of the story.
Dreadful. Simply dreadful. While I can admit to taking pleasure from some of Sheldon's frothy soap style novels, this one takes the genre to new lows.It's the usual beautiful woman who claws her way to the top amongst intrigue and sexual discrimination. There's the love interest, also heavily endowed with wealth and talent (of course...)and the disasters and calamities that befall them as they try valiantly to stay together.It's paint by numbers, at best...
Pessimo, letture inglesi del periodo irlandese per migliorare la comprensione dell'inglese.Very easy but very silly
All the girls love this novel. All about elegance and dominating girl power. The story of Lara Cameron, a poor girl who successfully became a builder of buildings. Quite ironic for a job. Despite of her success was a flaw which nearly ended everythin. That after she fell in love with a musician. OMG! The best bed scene I ever read is in this novel. Sex compared to rain. Awesome!
The Story of this book is really inspired me... It's all about my dreams... I wanna be like Lara Cameron... I wanna build so many buildings with name, so everybody can see what the hell I've created for this sucking world... 3 words that i always remember that written on that book are LOCATION, LOCATION, and LOCATION... that's the point! it's the best damn book that i ever have a read!
Boring and unoriginal. I don't even know why I read this book. I almost slept through the whole thing.I kept on reading, thinking something exciting was going to happen - a wonderful 'Sidney Sheldon Twist' - but was terribly disappointed.Concluding here... skip the book... only thing you'll lose is nothing.
Pretty fine first Sidney Sheldon read considering I'd been avoiding the books for past 4 years
Liked it. The twist in the end was awesome.
Now, that's what you call a 5 star ending. Classic!
I felt Lara Cameron living my dreams!!!
Lara Cameron benar2 tau apa yang ia inginkan, dan jenius real estat. Ga nyangka ternyata biang keladi dari semua masalah adalah orang terdekat Lara.
With so many things happening around, I couldn't even take a breather to touch a book, let alone read it.
With the proverbial dust seeming to settle down, at last, I wanted to begin with some light, easy reads to get myself back into the groove.
Picked up the e-book versions of a couple of novels that I had read as a young boy, as they were being published in vernacular in one of the weekly magazines.
Read it when you feel that you want to read just to kill time, all the while keeping your brain interested in something.
An OK-for-once read!
The Iron Butterfly if Lara Cameron, a modern day ruthless Cinderella who thinks and works like Trump and don't give a hick to what others would think, as long as she gets what she wants.From rags to riches, from Nova Scotia to Chicago to New York, Lara Cameron is an enigma.
This book, The Stars Shine Down, has been one of the few Sheldon books I've owned and would occasionally read for deep thought reading.
And when she meets the pianist that match her audacity, I knew that I would never forget a woman like Cameron.Worth reading over and over again!
A wonderful book indeed! I thought the ending would be in pain, but gladly it turned out differently! Love the ending that Lara got to get back with her husband. And a story about real estate development, quite exciting to read about Lara and her ‘gambling’ in her world of skyscrappers.
Women power as civil contractor from dark background
Sidney Sheldon hasn't lost his touch. I love this.
This is not my type but the book is LITTTT!!!
I read it years ago and always remembered it as the book that inspired me with regard to buying, building and renovating spaces for living in.
It is a story of courage, success, struggle and survival which leaves the reader feeling motivated to be part of the refurbishment of cities.As light entertainment, Lara Cameron's story of rags to riches moves quickly and incorporates family drama, intrigue, romance and suspense.
However, character exploration is not of much interest to him and the reader who is accustomed to rich, complex characters should put aside this expectation in order to enjoy what this book has to offer.
Breathtaking and sensual.Sometimes you can't trust the people closest to you, when it involves the hearts and emotions.Lara Cameron aimed to be successful, to build her own empire, to owe many buildings, to go against The Fate.She proved to the world, it wasn't a fairytale when she migrated from rags to riches.She worked very closely with Howard Keller for all her projects, but she failed to acknowledge his feelings and designs on her.She got sexually involved with Paul Martin, being pampered and loved by him, but he was already married.
She knew she couldn't give all her love to Paul Martin, and she knew something was missing in her life.
Ne upoznajem se sa Šeldonom prvi put, Pesak vremena mi se jako dopao, ali ova knjiga prosto nema to nešto.
Prvi problem je u glavnoj junakinji koja je za mene poremećeni primer uspeha, sve što je postigla i ja se na kraju vraćam odakle je ona zapravo krenula i to mi se ne dopada.
Ko voli lagano štivo bez da zamara mozak ok je, za mene lično ipak ne.So this was bad book for me, i'm sure in that.
Thi is not firs Sidney Sheldon book took, i already read The Sands of Time and i did like that one, but this one just does not have that X factor for me.
