https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/699654.Sackett_s_Land
I recall the fuss and hubbub amongst the intelligentsia when Ronald Reagan presented the Presidential Medal of Freedom to L’Amour back in 1984.
I am not even sure why I picked this one up; I may have just seen his name on the book cover and started reading.What I found at first was surprising: not a Western in the clearest sense, but rather a setting in seventeenth century England.
This was the far beginning of the Sackett family’s immigration to America and their very humble beginnings.Secondly, I was surprised by the quality of the narrative.
L’Amour was clearly a talented writer and a consummate storyteller.

Sackett's father once saved the Earl in a battle and a promise was made that could threaten Genester’s inheritance.
As Barnabas is about to depart for America he is captured and thrown into the hold of a pirate ship with orders that he is to be thrown into the Atlantic ocean between England and America.But it would be a short story and there would be no series if it were to end there.

I'm not sure exactly what I expected with this, but I was entertained, at any rate.
L'Amour owns that central contradiction of the warrior pacifist and makes his characters the embodiment of an ideal that transcends jaded reality and messy everyday compromises.It was interesting having more sword than gunplay.
And as interesting having an adventure that ranges from London to the new world (and back again).
Barnabas kept my attention firmly on his story so I found I didn't mind the flirting with history bits.In the end, this was a fun adventure story and a decent primer for the Sackett tales.
I read this long ago and I have it (in an omnibus edition with several other L'Amour books...I have a few other omnibus editions).
I found that in general I like his work.Louis L'Amour is probably best know for his westerns and his best known westerns are probably the ones that have to do with the Sacketts.
Later in the more overtly "western" books we see the family in the Eastern mountains of Tennessee and how they move west.
This is a well done story and snatches the interest very quickly.Those who tend to look down on L'Amour without actually reading him ought to try his work.
Barnabas Sackett doesn't look for trouble, but trouble finds him.
After finding (and selling) some old Roman gold coins, Barnabas is feeling good.
Unfortunately he attracts the ire of the young woman's gentry suitor.The confrontation between Barnabas and the young dandy leads Sackett from one adventure to the next, ultimately heading to the New World.
He overcomes every obstacle, every threat placed in his way.
I want them to face serious challenges and overcome them.
When he escapes the pirated and gets stranded on the coast of Virginia, of course he gets rescued.
Relatively ambitious stuff, and probably not what one would expect from L'Amour, whose massive bibliography is mostly standalone novels.
This one follows Barnabas Sackett (L'Amour so far has shown an alarming lack of badassery in his names in this series), a dude living in the swampy fens of England.
Not kidding, there's like ten swordfights in this 120-page book--not what you'd really expect from L'Amour!
It certainly doesn't feel like a western story crudely welded to a middle ages setting, which was something I was a bit worried about.
The first L'Amour book I read was very much what I expected.
It was a fun read.After that first venture into L'Amour-land, I asked for some advice and was steered toward the Sackett series.
Imagine my surprise when I picked up this book and found myself in England!
I enjoyed the rough and tumble adventures and can't wait to find out what happens next.The style of the writing just lets you accept without question that that well bred woman would fall for that guy without even much conversation between them.
Of COURSE she would, right?I really enjoyed the read and am already a Barnabas fan.
What a raucous, swashbuckling adventure tale of the onset of the Sackett family starting in 1599!! I had never read anything by Louis L'Amour and was impressed with the writing style and skill (I don't know what I expected!), and the action and adventure! Yes, it was a little far-fetched, but it really held the reader's attention and was fast-paced, making you want to continue with the next book right away! I really enjoyed it, and would recommend it, especially if you've been in a reading slump -- this is a real pick-me-up!!
For while, as his companion Jubain tells him early in the story "some of the great families of the world were founded with nothing but a sword and a strong right arm," Barnabas is all about establishing something other than just another coat of arms for his descendants to polish and admire and lord it over the neighbors over in Britain.He knows there's more out there in the newly discovered Americas.
So thus L'Amour's fictional exploration of where the settlers who took over and exploited the American West came from is starting with people who are interested in exploring where they came from, all the way back to the pre-Roman Iceni.I'm reminded a bit of Edward Rutherford, in a way, he of the 10,000 year story-line.
SACKETT'S LAND cries out to be a historical epic in the vein of James Michener or James Clavell, but in L'Amour's hands it feels like something serialized for a pulp adventure magazine.This book has two things going for it.
Surprisingly, most of the book takes place in England, although the characters still sound American.Despite my best efforts to enjoy SACKETT'S LAND for the pulp adventure it was, it nevertheless failed to engage me.
Which would be OK in a cheesy pulp novel, but doesn't work for the first volume in a multi-generational epic saga.
It's a question I've often wondered, and I finally feel like I have a good answer.Westerns are the only truly American form of literature.
Westerns are the embodiment of the American spirit: bold, brave, and adventurous.
Westerns show us the good and bad, the ugly and the beautiful.
Westerns invite us to search deep within ourselves to decide which of those parts in ourselves we want to show to others, and which parts we want to eliminate.After reading Conagher two weeks ago, I decided to go for a bit more Louis L'Amour, and I've heard good things about the Sackett series.
I just can't get past the apparent conceitedness of his characters- the too-good-to-be-true hero and the way things always seem to fall into place perfectly for him. In this book at the end, the girl is telling him she wants to come to America with him despite the fact that she will often be alone. Then she says, "But not for long. If you are half the man you appear to be, I will have a family soon." Are you serious?!! *barf* The story is usually good, but I just can't swallow the shallow characters.
next time you take a roadtrip, do yourself and your fellow passengers a favor - buy as many of the sackett books as you can find at truck stops and read them aloud. maybe not super intellectually stimulating, but wonderful stories of frontier-style adventure.
This was my first exploring into the works of Louis L'Amour and it lived up to the hype! Looking forward to the next adventure in of the Sackett's!
Legendary author Louis L'Amour takes us across the Atlantic to England to meet Barnabas Sackett in this first of the series.
This character-driven storyline takes us through a fiasco of being wrongfully accused of robbery by the Crown of England.
With the wind on his back, he set sail for America, land of opportunity.As a result of his rough and tumble upbringing, he was a rugged man who feared no one.
Those skills would serve him well in this new unsettled land.
With his new lease on life and his talent for survival, he was determined to make America his home.
Rather than include every Sackett book by Louis L'Amour in this list, I chose this one as a basis for a "blanket" review of the series.
They are popular -- as is/are the movie version(s) -- because they are built around admirable characters involved in high-action adventures.
The plots play out against a broad sweep of historical events.
But L'Amour does not try to portray the "movers and shakers" of an era -- the true historic figures -- except possibly in passing.
Instead, his Sackett protagonists are shown as men (and some women) who did the hard, dirty work but never made the history books.
I list this not so much because I think it's the greatest book ever, but because I think everyone should read at least one Louis L'Amour, and at least one of the Sackett novels.
I confess that a L'Amour novel is to me what chocolate is to someone else--a guilty pleasure that I have to indulge in every so often.
Just a fun read, and one made more interesting when reading in conjunction with a McCarthy novel or another piece of modernist literature about the West.
What I find most interesting about any Western is that the West has been a dying/disappearing land since its inception, and that's part of its lure.
At the time I was more interested in the bad gunslinger mentality.I loved this book!
Louis L’Amour has captured the American spirit of daring, adventure, & ambition.
Although most likely not completely accurate historically, it gives a wonderful insight into the men & women who forged a new life, a new nation.
He had missed his chances elsewhere, this one he would not miss.”I LOVE THIS LINE!!!As another reviewer wrote, Louis L’Amour cannot be considered a great writer, but he was most certainly an important one.
Louis L’Amour has gifted me with many wonderful hours of true pleasure.
This is a historical fiction novel, set in the 17th century, a bit earlier than most of L'Amour's works.
As an adult, I was bothered by L'Amour's black and white portrayal of this historical period and the moral and ethical questions surrounding colonialism.
L'Amour holds manifest destiny up as an ideal in this work; the heroes are the people who pursue this ideal and anyone who does not is either weak or a villain.
European exploitation and murder of Native Americans are both excused as being simply questions of economics or self-defense.
This isn't your typical Louis L'Amour western, but it is still in class L'Amour style. A great story with suspense and historical information. My 12-yr. old son really enjoyed this as well. I listened to the audiobook version of this.
He needs to believe in strength, nobility and courage.
I live my life so that when death comes I may die well.
I ask no more." Strength, courage, making war, heroic behavior, honor, integrity, deep friendships, willingness to die for the right cause - these are some of LL's markers of a good manly life.
I really did have fun reading Sackett's Land.Putting fun aside, LL's/Sackett's take on contact between colonists and native populations saddens me: "[W]hen two peoples come together that one which is most efficient will survive, and the other will absorb or vanish...
Might or greater efficiency makes right?
"Οι πρωτοπόροι", εκδόσεις ΒΙΠΕΡ.Το βιβλίο αυτό, χρονολογικά, αποτελεί το πρώτο μέρος της ιδιαίτερα γνωστής σειράς γουέστερν του Λουίς Λ'Αμούρ, όπου σε κάθε βιβλίο πρωταγωνιστούν μέλη της οικογένειας Σάκετ.
Στο συγκεκριμένο, βρισκόμαστε χρονικά πολύ πίσω, στο 1599, και παρακολουθούμε τον Βαρνάβα Σάκετ, ο οποίος έχει μεγάλα όνειρα, που έχουν να κάνουν με τον Νέο Κόσμο, την άγνωστη και τεράστια Αμερική, με τους κάθε λογής Ινδιάνους, τις απέραντες πεδιάδες και τα βοσκοτόπια, τα βουνά και τα ποτάμια.
Πρόκειται για μια ωραία και καλογραμμένη περιπέτεια, με πρωταγωνιστές πρωτοπόρους, που κάνουν τα πρώτα τους ταξίδια/βήματα στον άγνωστο Νέο Κόσμο.
Για άλλη μια φορά έμεινα πολύ ικανοποιημένος από βιβλίο του Λουίς Λ'Αμούρ.
Louis L'Amour said that he didn't write westerns, he wrote frontier fiction.
He was always bemused by how historical fiction set in the American frontier was this special -- usually denigrated -- category.
This, the first of the epic, sweeping Sackett family series, starts in rural England, and ends up on the shores of the United States.
Fortune allows him to find ancient lost coins, which he manages to use to flee his homeland and the adventures begin a family that is part of the settling and taming of the United States.I recommend reading all these, and any of L'Amour's writings.
Just finished Sacketts land and I remembered why I don't like Louis L'Amour and his books.
They are not believable or the have some gimmic."Sacketts Land"the beginning book of the Sacketts saga is the tail of Barnabus Sackett.
In 185 pages he escapes death from a lord that he insultes Three different times.
He is pressed into a ship by an evil captain and escapes.
Escapes  capture twice more by the same Captain.He escapes being killed by the Indians.
On his return to England he escapes capture by the Queens guard.
All these close calls in 185 pages is just not believable.
Audiobook.
My musings.."Hmmm...I have never read a Louis Lamour novel… I suppose I should…" I was talking to my father-in-law who is a Louis l'Amour connoisseur and asked him if I were to read one of his books which one should I?
This is the one he suggested to start with.
My boys might love it.
In fact I'm going to encourage my 12 and 13-year-old to read it I feel 'The Sackett series' might have a greater impact on their lives.
I, however, somewhat enjoyed it.
And if I'm being honest I will sheepishly say I actually never finished it.
But I get the gist.
I think this is really the series that cemented my true interest for Mr. L'Amour's books.
It's a good book and series and paints the picture of a very interesting family.
Their loyalty to each other and their family honor makes for a lot of good stories.
The only part of this series that really saddens me is in the preface where it's stated how long the series and its connecting spin-offs were supposed to be.
It's sad that Mr. L'Amour was never able to finish what he intended for it.
This book though is quite fun and a fast read.
I definitely consider this a cozy read. I enjoyed the story and look forward to reading the next in the series. This one is quite short so hard to establish a lot but there is some good groundwork that's promising for the next installment. The only thing that slightly nagged me was how quick characters were to blindly follow Barnabas, but then again the times were different and he does come across very trustworthy.
No one writes a western like Lamour! I read all of Lamour's books while living in Arizona (you can't live somewhere like Arizona or New Mexico without reading a Louis Lamour book - it's like living in Florida without reading Carl Hiaasen). Reading his books brought the Arizona desert to life - everywhere I looked, I could relive his books. And the Sackett books, by far, are my favorites by Lamour. And, yes, testosterone flows through these books (but, hey, it's the wild west ya'll!)
