https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110396.When_He_Was_Wicked
5 stars – Historical/Regency RomanceI’ll be honest, this is the book that attracted me to Julia Quinn’s Bridgertons to begin with and the story that I was most looking forward to reading in the series.
I honestly didn’t feel like she gave him much in return with her companionship, other than managing his estate, until towards the end that is, and there were times that I really wondered why the heck he was so completely enamored of her.
It is certainly not I, my friends.Michael is such a loyal, caring, to die for, wickedly sexy, dirty talkin’ (oh my, yes!) hero, and his unrequited love for Francesca broke my heart several times over.
Pulling out all the stops he does whatever he has to do to make her give into her feelings and see that what they have is not something to feel guilty or ashamed of, rather something to be cherished.While I love all of the books in the Bridgerton series, When He Was Wicked had something…more.
They laugh together, tease each other, have fun together, all the while with Francesca blissfully happy in her marriage with her Lord John and blithely oblivious at the pain Michael is suffering despite his outwardly vivacious facade.His love for her is confounding, love at first sight, as clichéd as it may sound...but unlike the usual story when the hero/heroine falls inexplicably in love, Julia Quinn has a lovely way of putting his abstract and inexplicable attraction to Francesca in words:"It wasn’t her hair, that rich, lush wave of chestnut that he was rarely so privileged as to see down.
But I gotta tell you, I loved this anyways and never felt I was lost or not privy to previous developments.
I do plan on reading the rest of the series and only wish they're as good as this one.So, Michael Stirling.
His forbidden love and acutely desperate longing for Francesca was so tangible, I felt every bit of his anguish.
But I do believe she felt that way because the depth of her feelings for Michael was so deep, subconsciously so.
His pain was the perfectly orchestrated emotional angst I love.
But this, the angst, depth of emotion, this is the HR I love.
Michael Stirling has been in love with Francesca for many years, and after the sudden death of his cousin, his life was turned upside down.
When he was Wicked has a tragic tone throughout the book, starting with the sudden death of John Stirling, Francesca’s husband and Michael’s cousin.
Through the book Francesca comes out from the shadows and starts to see life, but sees Michael as a man not as a friend but more.
Michael was scared, thrown into a role, he always saw his cousin in, then having to deal with lost and feeling he was hurting his cousin’s memory by loving Francesca.
I had to check more than once that I was reading a Juia Quinn and not Lisa Kleypas whose steam scenes can be a whole lot steamier than Quinn’s.
This book was fantastic!Filled with emotion that starts out simmering and ends up ready to firecracker high in the sky, here’s the story of Francesca Bridgerton and Michael Stirling friends/cousins through Francesca’s husband.
It’s an unrequieted love story for Michael but he wouldn’t do anything to jeopardize the friendship he has with the two.
Some of the steam scenes are waaayy steamier than typical Julia Quinn fare which made the characters come to life even more.
This is definitely the most intense of the Bridgerton series that I've read so far.
Francesca Bridgerton is Michael's ultimate "Jessie's Girl." He has been completely in love with her since the first time he met her.
He freaks out a bit about gaining incredible wealth and property only through his cousin's death (who he truly loved.) So he runs away to India for four years.When he comes back he realizes that he still loves Francesca more than ever, only now she is available.
Francesca is not a bad heroine but she really does put Michael through the wringer with her indecisiveness.
It gets a bit irritating.So far this is my favorite in the series.
Because I didn't know Francesca at all before her own book, I didn't know what to expect from this one.Francesca may not be my favourite Bridgerton - or heroine in this series in general - but she can hold her own and she stands out for different reasons.Apart from the shallow reasons to like this book: the "I've loved you for years" and the "friends-to-lovers" tropes, two of my favourite tropes combined in this book, Michael's unfailing and all-consuming love for Francesca renders this a devastating read.This is not the typical JQ, but, may I say, possibly even better.
Muy bonito, aunque el final quizás algo precipitado, y me hubiera gustado un epílogo de ellos dos y que ella reaccionara antes.
3.5 stars I really loved the first part of the book and I absolutely adored the hero, Michael.
I did like Francensca in the beginning as well; it was the last pages that changed my opinion of hers.
Phrases like "I don't know what I want", "I don't want to think about it", "I don't want to decide on that now" were her train of thought for much longer than I was willing to accept and forgive.
The ending however let me down, first with Francesca's silly behavior and secondly, because I realised that in the end I didn't know her very well.
Does she like reading?
Preparations necessary when reading When He Was Wicked:Materials needed:bucket of ice -to douse the heathandkerchief -to wipe off the sweatblood pressure cuff and heart rate monitor -to monitor if your BP and pulse are still in safe levelsguardian angel -to prevent infection of wickednessoptional:handcuffs -to prevent being wickedsedative -to reduce excitementPreferential reading temperature:20° or lower -things can get hotPrecautions:(1) Breathe slowly.
(to minimize levels of stress)(3) Don't forget to breathe.
(I must put emphasis on breathing)(4) Don't forget it is Julia Quinn who created WHWW(5) At this point, a sedative might come in handy.Alternative titles for the book(1)When Julia Quinn Was Wicked(2)Read If You Want to Get WickedAdditional words of advice:Get your hands on this book now and witness how Julia Quinn becomes wicked.
*Fanning myself*Goodness. This book should get two stars from me, but here's an interesting fact; Michael Stirling rates an entire star on his own. I found myself frustrated with Francesca's behavior. It's not that I couldn't understand it, just that it dragged on for far too long. I've noticed that a propensity to draw out a story is one of the weaknesses in Quinn's writing. This isn't the only book of hers I've read that had me heaving a sigh, rolling my eyes, and uttering - But if you can get
*Fanning myself*Goodness.
This book should get two stars from me, but here's an interesting fact; Michael Stirling rates an entire star on his own.
I found myself frustrated with Francesca's behavior.
It's not that I couldn't understand it, just that it dragged on for far too long.
This isn't the only book of hers I've read that had me heaving a sigh, rolling my eyes, and uttering -
But if you can get past the drawn out melodrama, Michael Stirling is quite a hunk o' man meat, and reading about him is certainly no chore.
Distinto. CautivadorMe ha vuelto a encantar. Creo que esta novela es una delicia, una historia preciosa. Michael es un personaje genial hasta el final. Quizás algo precipitado ya que todo se resuelve en un par de páginas.Pero he sufrido con todos los sentimientos de Michael, con esas cartas no enviadas y las que síUna novela muy distinta de toda la serie.Me ha faltado en el epílogo, una aparición estelar de los Bridgerton
One of - if not THE - best of the Bridgerton series, this is a bit darker in tone than most of the others. I listened to the audiobook version, narrated by Simon Prebble, who does an absolutely wonderful job. I don't have time to write a full review at the moment, but perhaps one day...
The first husband was not a monster or someone the heroine did not love as we so often see.I could completely understand why the hero was so tortured with survivor's guilt.
He wonders if somehow his secret love for the heroine put bad vibes in the universe that resulted in John's death.
I realize John was a big part of both of their lives and would always be loved by both, but it's so not romantic (to me) to constantly have the specter of the dead ex hanging over everything.And for some reason, I never really connected with the heroine.
2.5 stars  This book...was slow.I didn't really find it as exciting as the rest of the Bridgerton series (n i've read them all.)Even though it did have the family's trilling flavour, the book lacked JQ's usual sarcastic humour and chemistry...though I guess the treasure hunting was supposed to make up for it.All in all an OK READ.
There were quite a few I thought were good, solid three star reads, and then there was  Romancing Mister Bridgerton, which had many elements I loved.
I don't think I've ever come across a book where the sex scenes genuinely advanced the story and character development as much as they did in this one, but beyond that I pretty much needed a cigarette after reading them.I think the thing I liked most about this book, however, was just how much the hero and heroine respected each other.
When He Was Wicked is the sixth installment of the Bridgertons series by Julia Quinn.
It is about Francesca Bridgerton, who had a love marriage, but her husband died two years ago.
Her husband’s cousin, Michael, is in love with her since they first met, and slowly Francesca realizes that she feels the same for him.There is a serious problem with Francesca's character: her grief is not real, and her dilemma is exaggerated.
Some of them are needlessly long and irrelevant.When He Was Wicked is my least favorite in the Bridgertons series.Originally posted on my blog on September 8, 2012.
This book!!! Absolutely amazing! My fave Julia Quinn.
El único comentario que voy a hacer es: Michel es escocés, y los protagonistas escoceses no decepcionan. A Francesca un sacudon le daba yo para que se avive un poco. En fin, poca conexión con esta Bridgerton, pero todo mi cariño para el señor Stirling.
***3.5 ¿Francesca eres una Bridgerton? Stars*** Mi libro favorito de esta serie sigue siendo el de Daphne y Simon y mi pareja favorita la de Colin y Penélope y mi amor de la vida Colin.Reconozco que es un libro diferente a los demás es más emocional a la pobre Francesca le pasó de todo perdió a su marido a los dos años de estar casada y también su embarazo, pero no sé porque no pude conectar con ella, tal vez será porque casi no salió en los anteriores libros por ser tan diferente a su familia
***3.5 ¿Francesca eres una Bridgerton?
Stars***
Su personalidad me encantó aunque lo quisieron poner al nivel de Colin hasta más acechado pero naaah no le llega todavía al nivel.Las partes que más me gustaron again sigue siendo donde sale Colin y ahora la hizo de cupido ay me enamoré más de él.La historia no me convenció del todo por Francesca pero sin duda es mucho mejor que la anterior y el protagonista o sea Michael infinitamente mejor así que todas la estrellas se las doy a él
Yo, que soy más rancia que las protagonistas de estas novelas y no me dejaría comer el tetamen así de buenas a primeras, me he puesto muy en la piel de Francesca.
Puede cansar su actitud, es cierto, sobre todo SPOILER una vez que hay tema (y qué tema, qué calores cuando ella es perversa) con Michael FIN DE SPOILER.
A Francesca hay que entenderla y yo creo que la entiendo hasta cierto punto, aunque algo ahostiable es a veces.
Pero lo mismo era más ahostiable yo en su situación XDDDD
Niko, niko ne voli Michaela Stirling kao ja! ♥
He disfrutado mucho de esta relectura; creo que más incluso que la primera vez que leí la novela, que fue hace tanto que guardaba un recuerdo un poco difuso; ni siquiera tenía claro quién era Francesca más allá de ser "la Bridgerton menos Bridgerton". Pero ahora me he reencontrado con ella y con Michael y su preciosa y original historia y me ha encantado hacerlo ♥
Honestly, when I started these books, I was looking forward to this one so much...just based on the title.
But, confession, I have yet to truly love and connect to any book in this series.
There is something about the writing (the over use of certain words) and the pacing that has made these books ones I can set down for days before getting back to.
The entire story felt like a different type of book from any in this series, and I loved it for it.
I loved Francesca and how different she was from her family (more reserved).
I loved their emotional turmoil.
This Bridgerton lady didn’t inherit her family’s moxie!Michael was nursing a crush on his cousin/best friend Count Of Kilmartin’s fiancée Francesca Bridgerton.
He was happy for his cousin John but he knew in his soul that Francesca was his soulmate.
Watching John and Fran marry and then constantly being the third wheel was so hard that he turned to women and drink to numb his pain.
When his cousin suddenly died, Michael inherited Kilmartin.
Franny and Michael were so close even when John was alive.
Actually he was a good narrator but after five books I had grown accostumed to her voice.
I had two primary concerns going into When He Was Wicked: 1) I was curious to see what Quinn would do with a heroine who GASP isn't a virgin!!1 and 2) I was pretty sure she'd never given more than like five minutes thought to Francesca until it was time to write this book.Francesca was (prior to this book and following it, honestly) the Invisible Bridgerton.
Julia Quinn pretty obviously struggles a bit around the middle of the novel attempting to make up for this deficiency by inserting Colin into Michael's half of the narrative essentially for no other reason than to troll him and, I imagine, add some interest by including an appearance from a beloved character.
“You have to say it,” he said. “If you feel it, then you have to say it. I’m a greedy bastard and I want it all.”She looked up at him, her eyes bright. “I love you.”Michael touched her cheek. “I have no idea what I did to deserve you,” he said.“You didn’t have to do anything,” she whispered. “You just had to be.” *whimpers* Sorry. My heart needs a moment to deal with the sudden onslaught of feels.When He Was Wicked was without a doubt the most emotionally draining of the Bridgerton books, but t
And even after they did consummate their shared passion physically again, and again, AND AGAIN (whoo!), sex didn’t magically solve everything because it never does.But once Francesca and Michael finally did reconcile with the fact that John would have more than likely approved of and been happy about their union, they were able to find some semblance of peace and acceptance that they did love each other and it was okay to do so.
It helped to build their relationship on a deeper emotional level, and Julia Quinn made it very believable to see the heroine fall in love with her deceased husband's cousin.I know; scandalous Surprising tid-bit, the steam factor seemed to skyrocket in this book, than in the previous books in the series!!!While the appearance of the Bridgertons was quite little(only Eloise, Hyacinth, Colin, Violet), it was still funny and wonderful!The Epilogue; I certainly wasn't expecting that letter, but when John's mom writes a letter to Micheal and ends it with;
Thinking back over the Brigerton Series to write these reviews I realised this was one of my favourites.Francesca (Frannue) is happily married to her first husband, John, Earl of Kilmartin, she has a great friendship with his cousin and best friend Michael,who in turn has been in love with her since he first laid eyes on her, but has kept his feelings to himself.At the start of the book John complains of a headache and goes to have a lie down.
John dies leaving Francesca devastated.
We learn later in the book that John suffered from an Anerism.
