https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7726143-origins
Origins: Stefans Diaries #1 by L.J. SmithThis is the first novel I've read in over two weeks...thanks a-lot reading slumpI quite enjoyed this book.
It was very interesting to read about the past of The Vampire Diaries involving Katherine, Stefan and Damon.
I also found being in Stefan's head great.There's not a whole lot to say about this book other than it was a great insight into the characters lives, and into what Mystic Falls was like pre the Salvatore brother's vampire days.You also get to see what actually went down between Stefan and Damon, also with their father, which was all very compulsive.
What’s exciting about the Stefan’s Diaries series is that it's based on the characters in the TV show, not the ones in The Vampire Diaries books.
This first prequel volume, Origins, chronicles the Salvatores in 1864 when they first met Katherine and became vampires.
So while I know this was Stefan’s POV and thus focused on his side of the events with Katherine, I would’ve also loved to have seen more of Damon’s journey.
Everyone knows he was the brother who didn’t have to be compelled.
I would be willing to bet money that author never read the original series nor did he or she (and for some reason I think it's a he) ever really watch the television series.As most people know the Vampire Diaries is very loosely based on the books LJ Smith wrote, but it deviated almost from the first episode and has gone too far to ever go back -- which in my opinion is good.
So really these books do not even serve the purpose for which they were created.I'm team Damon all the way in the first series by LJ Smith, on the television show, and fuck it all even from Stefan's POV I'm team Damon.
(Oh, but those Salvatore boys are yummy to look at) However Stefan’s Dairies was a great read and stands perfectly fine on its own, completely separate from either series, except of course for using the same characters and town setting.
Based on historical flashbacks shown briefly in the TV series, here we get to go back to the “origin” of the Salvatore brothers, set during the civil war before they became vampires.
The writing is simple but the story is complete and very good with elements of suspense and romance throughout; Stefan trying to live up to his fathers expectations, young love and the jealousy yet unbreakable bond between two brothers as they vie for the same mysterious woman.
So far, VERY unhappy. Just a few pages in, and Katherine is a dark haired girl, instead of the pale, angelic blond she is in the books. PISSED. Why do they have to mess with the way they LOOK in the books. It's not like it matters, and the books were established YEARS before the TV show. Not that I don't love the TV show, also. I just wish that they would separate them now that they're so different!
Dvoumila sam se između trojke i četvorke! Imala sam veća očekivanja.Žao mi je što nije ispunila moja očekivanja prvenstveno zbog toga što je iz Stefanove perspektive (a njega obožavam). Nisam zadovoljna ovom knjigom...
This book covers his relation to he, the vampire hunt in his town and a bit of Damon too.SPOILER WARNING FROM THIS POINT IF YOU HAVE NOT READ THE BOOKS OR SEEN THE SERIES!!!So in the books, both Damon and Stephen fall in love with Katherine and literally fight to the death over her and since she had been feeding off them, the both turned to vampires.Not quite so here, while they do both fall for her, as Stephen sees her true nature he is horrified and turns away from her while Damon accepts her.
I wont tell you these scenes because I dont want to spoil anything and because I want you to read this book yourself.
These scenes were featured in The Vampire Diaries TV show!
I’ve always knew that these book series’ were different from the actual book itself, The Vampire Diaries.
That’s (actually) the reason why I bought this book (and plan to buy the others) and why I wanted to read these books.
Trivia: I’ve thought of reading The Vampire Diaries books but I just didnt want to.
And reading the Stefan’s Diaries really helps in understanding and feeling the emotions of every character more.
Allow me to explain.LJ Smith wrote the original Vampire Diaries series (which she is still writing as of the time I am posting this review).
In fact if you've watched the show, it will seem eerily familiar as it sticks fairly true to the Stefan backstory as presented to us thus far in the show.If you've been keeping up with the more recent LJ Smith Vampire Diary books, you'll definitely feel the difference both in that this is written by others and that it's meant to be a companion piece to the show instead of the book series.
I mean, I have no clue why someone would pick up a series halfway in, so I'll talk like you've read them all.In the BOOK VD series we've already been given a description of the turning of Stefan and Damon.
How can I know what story she'll be telling?
The old VD books made you connect with every character so you knew their importance to the storyline, but this book did not do that in the least.
I felt the only person it wanted me to like was Katherine, which ironically is someone we're made to hate in the old books.
i love stefan as a charecter and this is a good way to know more about him.
3.5 stars.This book is definitely Stefan's diary but it is very much a prequel to the events of Vampire Diaries.
The first half (?) was pretty boring and drawn out but it got much better when Stefan got more involved with Katherine and found out about vampires.
There is sex in the book and although it is not detailed, it may not be for some teens.I do have to say that I enjoyed reading about Stefan's and Damon's relationship.
It was also refreshing to read a bit about Stefan being a bad boy and Damon NOT!
Once I heard that the CW was releasing a trio of NEW vampire diaries books I can say that I was a little wary, but after picking the first volume "Origins" up @ my local Barnes & Noble I was interested to see if it worked since I'm a huge vampire diaries fan I've been since I was 13 and I'm 22 now :D turns out!
I recommend it to everyone even if your not a full fan of the TV show, this is a lovely tale & I can't wait to read the second volume coming in January 2011!
Despite being written by a ghost writer, reading about Stefan’s side was rather enjoyable for me, given the fact I love the TV Show and original L.J.Smith’s books a lot. 💯💯😊😊
It is based loosely on L.J. Smith Vampire Diaries as well as on the TV show created by The CW.This is the first book of Stefan's Diaries and therefore tells the story of how Stefan and Damon met Katherine in the TV show version.
If you have watched the TV show you know how it happened and it is pretty much same in this book except for Stefan.
There are dark things in this world but few are aware.CHARACTERS: There are three main characters in this book: Stefan, Damon and Katherine.
Damon loves Katherine.
Stefan loves Katherine.
Katherine enchants both brothers, but she claims to love Stefan.
Stefan and Damon are shot while trying to rescue Katherine, dies, and finds out they've both been turned into vampires.
I felt like this book is a companion recap of the show itself, but what does make it interesting was Stefan's viewpoint, and how different Damon seems before he turned into a vampire.
The other books in the TV Show series will probably have more original storyline since it will be the stories of Stefan before he meets Elena.
BOOOO! Agreed with others... leave it alone. They're Italian, not American. They're much older in the books than in the show. If you're going to remake the characters for the show, at least leave the books alone. L.J., why would you let this happen?
The tv show is much better
I decided to read this book because it is a branch off a TV series i love;the vampire diaries.
it is the back story of one of the main characters and how he became a vampire and ended up as apart of the books.
A category this book fits in to is a book with a male main character.
This category was not really interesting as most books are written with female or male main characters.
So when im reading i get to imagin an old times setting and clothing which i love seeing.
No matter how hard Harper Teen try to cover up the fact that this book is not actually written by L.J Smith, if you've read the other vampire diaries books, it's easy to tell that this book is not written by her.
secondly, it's also obvious that this story has been written after the television series has been released, (published in 2010) as a large amount of the dialogue follows the script of flashback scenes of the television show.Despite these 2 little faults, it is an awesome book.
Chiar dacă "Jurnalele Vampirilor" este una dintre seriile mele preferate, această serie "Jurnalele lui Stefan", formată din 6 volume bazate pe T.V.D., nu este atât de mult pe placul meu cum m-aş fi aşteptat să fie.
Deşi nu îşi doreşte acest lucru, Stefan îi face vizite lui Rosalyne, încercând, cât de cât, să vadă binele din ceea ce ar fi putut ei avea şi anume o căsnicie bazată doar pe interesele părinţilor.
A încercat timp de două săptămâni să facă acest lucru, însă simţea că în inima lui nu putea intra altă fată în afară de Katherine.
Keep in mind that Stefans Diaries are based on the TV show and not on the bookserie The Vampire Diaries.
In  Origins  we go back to 1864 were it all started.
We get to know the Salvator brothers as humans and follow them in there teenlifes.
Back at their home where they still life with their father - Giuseppe.
They meet Katherine for the first time and both brothers imidiatly fall in love with her.
Not knowing what she  really is.
For the fans of the TVshow a must read!
I enjoyed it and I can't wait the read the rest of Stefans Diaries!
Although the book is interesting, i still enjoy the programThis book didn't really make me think about much because i know the events that happen in this book are not real but at times when the book gets really dramatic i still think what if.My favorite quote in this book is when Katherine says to Stefan "Don't worry.
I like this quote because i think it's funny how she says this because vampires don't have heart's.My favorite character in this book is Damon.
this book did nothing for me, it was like reading the script for the vampire diaires show, alot of the parts in the book were nearly direct scenes from the show itself - the scene were damon and stefan are trying to save a muzzled katherine and are shot by their own father - this has never been told in the books.
:S they are describing katherine from the vd show and not the katherine from the original books who had blue eyes and blonde hair, this furthur adds to my suspicion that the book was not written by l.j. herself as she would not change the appearance of a character that she created and she would not change all the backstory they she wrote herself.
If you watch the show: This book is about Damon, Stefan and Katherine in 1864 and their love triangle.If you don’t watch the show: This book is about a seductive female vampire who has attracted the attention of two brothers who will do anything for her to love them.I understand that the publishers are trying to appeal to viewers of the show but they really shouldn’t because I honestly believe that I would’ve enjoyed the book better if I didn’t watch the show because there was no suspense there was no “What’s going to happen?” because we already know how the story ends and what happens to it so the story becomes boring and predictable.The Salvatore brothers are still incredibly hot through words and even though I was in the mind of the second best brother.Katherine is still the bitch I remember her to be.
First off, I am an adult who reads L.J. Smith's "Vampire Diaries" series and has since before it was ever a television show.
That said, as a long-time fan of the series, I was excited when I got my hands on a copy of the latest, "Stefan's Diaries".
I expected a quick, upbeat, fun read, such as all of the previous novels in the series.
But what I got was hogwash!
In short, if you are someone- of any age- just becoming interested in L.J. Smith's writings, welcome to the club!
Go read one of the original "Vampire Diaries" novels and skip this piece of filler.
Vampires....
Is it wrong that I am totally in love with all types of vampires and other mythical creatures that do not exist?
I might go for a yes, but than again...No, there is nothing wrong with that ;)So about this novel - that was instantly good.
Although I didn't like the fact that after Stefan (view spoiler)[ becomes a vampire, sucks Alice's blood.
Yes, yes, I know that it is a vampire's nature to do that....uh...
(hide spoiler)].
And don't get me wrong, I like Stefan and the whole book, and certainly cannot wait to watch the first season of Vampire Diaries!
Bože, myslela jsem, že jenom L. J. Smith píše slátaniny, ale tihle seriáloví tvůrci jsou na tom taky prachbídně. Tohle byl děs běs a divím se, že jsem u toho nevykrvácela.Damon je zamilovaný hlupák, Katherine je úchyl a Stefan je psychopat. :D No jak já na tohle napíšu recenzi, to fakt nevím :D
loving this book so it was stephan who made damon drink to turn like him
N’étant pas une immense fan de l’univers des vampires, j’ai été surprise pas ce roman! J’ai beaucoup aimé les personnages, et surtout l’histoire: le fait de découvrir les origines a été pour moi bien plus intéressant que le premier tome de « Journal d’un vampire ». Je lirai la suite volontiers, en espérant que cela ne tourne pas au vinaigre pour moi!•Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/abookafterb...•Blog: https://abookafterbook.wordpress.com/
