https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77786.Vision_of_the_Future
But it was still good!It’s just, I remember swooning pretty hard during the scene where Luke and Mara Jade finally confess their love.
And reading that scene again, it didn’t feel either of those things.
(I definitely didn’t remember that the love confession scene involved what is essentially mind-sex, and then an immediate marriage proposal.
I love the whole trajectory of this book being about finally ending the Empire, not by defeat, but with a peace treaty.
I love that Zahn acknowledges that not everyone in the Empire is faceless and Evil.
In Zahn’s novels, Luke purposely refuses to use the Force because he is afraid that even an innocuous use of the Force could ultimately send him down the path that his father once took.Mara Jade, the once-evil Imperial assassin who joined the Rebel Alliance, is the perfect yin to Luke’s yang.
When Luke and Mara discover that true power comes from connection and opening one’s self completely to each other, the repercussions of this discovery are felt throughout the SWEU.Nowhere is this felt more than with the surprising end to the war between the Empire and the New Republic.
But the execution is a tiny bit hamfisted.One interesting facet of the duology is that Zahn actually picks up threads from the Thrawn trilogy that were never explained, such as the old beckon call Luke found in the dark side cave on Dagobah.
In the Thrawn trilogy, that beckon call appears to be simply a MacGuffin that sends Luke to Nkllon at a plot-convenient time, but in this duology, we learn that it actually had some significance.I mentioned in my Specter of the Past review that the real genius of this book is that it finally puts an end to the Empire as the major threat to the EU.
I must admit to enjoying the story, I think it was very well crafted by Zahn, told at a great pace and delivered masterly by the narrator.
It has still left me on the fence with Star Wars books though, I can quite easily take em or leave em.
Given that I enjoy scifi and have been know to enjoy scifi opera, but when it comes to Star Wars I always feel slightly under awed.
I guess it has something to do with knowing the characters and it being strange reading other stories that they are in, I don't know.
But all in all, I enjoyed the story and I LOVED the narration.
If there is any complaint, it is that there is no Character Sheet at the beginning to remind us of all the participants, because Timothy Zahn does what we love and creates new, amazing characters like Moranda Savich (a personal favorite), Shada Du'Kal (seen in his short story in Tales from the Mos Eisley Cantina), and Child of Winds (Luke and Mara's native guide).Lastly, Zahn once again writes a CLEVER novel.
Years ago, I read this book without having read Specter and I spent half the book playing catch-up and failing.Vision reminds us why we love Star Wars, why we love Han, Luke, and Leia, and why Timothy Zahn is so amazing at plots.
(rating relative to other Star Wars novels)Excellent.
Good plot twists, good suspense.
Great character development.This edition, BTW, had 694 pages, not the lesser number displayed by Good reads.It must be hard to write a book in which none of the main characters can have much happen to them...like die.
But Zahn did a great job, again, within the constraints of fan fiction.
Even though he was not credited for it, Drew Struzan's cover art was good, too.If George Lucas hadn't already said that no future SW movies would include the original characters, I'd suggest this story as a candidate plot line.
Here's the thing- I read this when I was 13. I don't remember much about it (a lot of action and general gripping thrillingness) except for one scene, but I remember that scene word for word. Probably because I am incredibly sappy.
After reading six Tim Zahn-Star Wars books, I feel like I've been beaten up by Sugar Ray Leonard. No mas. I'm done.
The book keeps up a steady pace and does manage to resolve all the different threads and plot points introduced in Specter of the Past.
There are many different threads at work in this book but Zahn manages to juggle them well.
At least they were all good reasons to have some crazy adventures.All in all I'd say that you can't go wrong with a Zahn Star Wars book but I would definitely start with his Thrawn trilogy (starting with Heir to the Empire) or Allegiance.Marc Thompson does a great job with impressions of all our favorite characters and the special effects are great too.
Pendant ce temps, Luke et Mara Jade découvrent un complexe de guerre nommé la Main de Thrawn qui est dirigé par l'ancien impérial nommé le Baron Soontir Fel. Luke doit donc détruire le complexe à seulement l'aide de Mara Jade.Ce que j'ai aimé le plus dans ce livre est que l'auteur fait une mise au point de ce qui s'est passé entre les livres qu'il a écrit et ceux de cette duologie.
La Main de Thrawn est vraiment une série à lire pour éviter de lires les autre mauvais livres de la saga grâce à la mise-au-point de Timothy Zahn.

The layers of storytelling with the Empire and Republic perspectives along with the individual character stories for Luke with Mara, Talon and Shada, and Han and Leia is simply masterful.
He weaves so much into one final book its amazing and all boils down to the Camass document and the Bothan planet.
Luke goes after Mara who is on a distant planet in search of clues to the "hand of Thrawn".
Han goes in search of the Camass document and Leia gets a cryptic deal presented to her from Admiral Palleon.
The Luke and Mara relationship finally gets traction and its really well written.
I've been geek'n out . . . Been looking forward to the new Star Wars movie, so I've just read my way through Timothy Zahn's "Thrawn" series (5 books in 2 series). This one, Vision of the Future, was the grand finale. I've really enjoyed these series. Am now hungry for more!
Great book. Surprising, I though the more interesting parts of the book were about Disra, Flim and Tierce. And the parts about Luke and Mara stuck in the Hand of Thrawn were kind of tedious. But the ending really saved the book and Admiral Palleon is my new favorite Star Wars character.
This was a decent read, a little bit too long I think.
The first book is more or less just groundwork, this one is where things truly happened.I guess it goes without saying that I do love the story--it's a page-turner in any case, and I experienced less difficulty with Vision of the Future than I do with Specter of the Past.
There's just subplots inside subplots inside subplots like Thrawn had plans within plans within plans, and while this is good and I thoroughly enjoyed the careful unspooling of revelations, at the same time I sometimes wish that I was reading a more straightforward story.
Zahn easily managed the multiple storylines that are strung throughout this book.
I will definitely have to finish off the other few legends books still out there by Zahn but one thing is for sure; A good friend of mine told me that if we were to forget the novels that come after this, the signing of the treaty between New Republic and Imperial Remnant is the perfect place for the an "end" to the Star Wars universe that we of course hope will never actually end and he is definitely correct in that assessment.
I really enjoyed listening to this on audiobook! The plot was too complicated for my taste and Luke was extra derpy, but it was fun. I'd love to read whatever book comes next chronologically. I don't think I would have enjoyed this nearly as much if I had read a physical copy.
Solid!
In the sequel to Specter of the Past and the finale to the Thrawn Duology, Luke Skywalker is searching for Mara Jade after she disappeared on a planet, while his friends Han Solo and Leia Organa Solo work to keep a civil war within the New Republic from erupting, as well as dealing with an old enemy who has recently returned.
This book was very exciting, and it had great character development for new characters, older Zahn characters, and even Luke.
The book was great, and I'll be moving on to the New Jedi Order series soon.
I'm a big fan of Shada D'Ukal, insanely competent fighter who decides to join the New Republic only to find herself not needed, instead joining smuggler Talon Karrde, Mara Jade's old boss from the Thrawn trilogy.
All the while, there's a fake Thrawn running around the Empire wreaking havoc and striking fear into the hearts of the New Republic.I loved Pellaeon in this book.
This book also does the double duty of hinting at future conflicts (this is Star Wars, after all - with the Empire surrendering, there's got to be a new villain - it wouldn't be Star Wars is there wasn't a war) while also wrapping up loose ends from the Thrawn trilogy.
Interesting, no gaping holes.
In this, Luke is off to rescue Mara, while the New Republic itself moves closer and closer to internal war over the involvement of a group of Bothans in the destruction of Caamas, all of which is due to the (unknown to the Republic) machinations of a trio of Imperials, one of whom is impersonating Grand Admiral Thrawn.Looking back on this, it's also interesting to note the veiled hints at future events - in particular, at just what is out in the Unknown Regions - that would later come to play a major role in the ongoing series (and, as a side-note, which is round about where I stopped reading them).
There are some books that you know are a bad idea.
A story weighed down by not one, not two, but more than a dozen millstones in the form of extremely complex, unwieldy, and verbose story arcs attached to both old and newly introduced characters, all of whom are on their own little jaunts and rarely speak to each other except in passing; poor planning, bad backstories, c-grade comic releief and villainy, and in the end, a series of desperately-used plot devices to escape the corner Zahn painted himself into; he was able to finish the story, but not well.
I loved Zahn's original Star Wars trilogy and had high hopes for this book.
It's an okay story, but it has too many threads, drags on, and the ending feels very much like "happily ever after." i think part of the problem comes from tying into too many other stories from the larger Star Wars universe.
it also felt to me like Zahn wanted to give everyone character his or her own thread, and this would have been fine, but it feels like some of them get stretched too long to make the timing work out.
A solid entry in the Zahn bloc of Star Wars novels, one that marked the end of an era (it was released in 1998 or 99 just before the Prequels, and plotwise is a end point to the New Republic-empire conflict that drove most of the EU books up to that point.
If you cross your eyes enough the Zahn books are the logical prequels for the new trilogy.
From here, read Outbound Flight and other prequel era novels and leave the NJO alone...
A Quickie ReviewThough George Lucas' space opera is made up of many parts--romance, tragedy, triumph, humor, etc.--the main attractor of Star Wars for most fans is the action.
Unfortunately, this last volume of a tie-in duology proved to be a bit light in that department.
It still made for somewhat enjoyable reading, but it's not the lightsaber-dueling, interstellar dogfighting adventure that we got on the big screen.Content Concerns: There isn't all that much violence, but one scene does feature a few stabbings.
"Shavit," which obviously sounds and looks like an English profanity, is said fully once and left unfinished another time, the latter seemingly indicating the Earth vulgarity.Score: 2.75/5
I have enjoyed Timothy Zahn's Star Wars novels, and I enjoyed this one.
My only contention with it is that Zahn is unable to write romance.
The 'romantic' scenes between Luke and Mara are stiff and awkward, which is a shame, because I think Luke finally getting a girl deserved a bit more than that.
Maybe that's just because I am a girl, and one who likes romance, but still ...I have enjoyed Mara's character from the first and I was happy to see her evolution as a character in this.
I also enjoyed the action and storyline.
On the 5th book of the series, a long way from Thrawn and an even longer way from the original movies, Timothy Zahn's crappy writing has finally gotten in the way of awesome Star Wars action.The climax (and even major action scenes) are themselves not good or interesting in this final book.
He seems to have run out of tricks.
Even the great unveiling of the enemy in the Empire seemed forced and anticlimactic.Thanks for the Thrawn trilogy, Zahn.
I can't recommended The Hand of Thrawn duology unfortunately even to the most die hard fan :(
It has it's share of good and really good moments, but all of those moments happen on no more than a 100 pages. That leaves 500 pages that were not that entertaining. It has all the guys from the Thrawn-trilogy (and more), but the main story-arc didnt really do it for me. Of all the little story-lines I found that I enjoyed Admiral Palleon's the most. Its an ok read, but I expected more. Too long I guess.
