https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/836746.A_Grain_of_Wheat
Great introduction to African literature. I can't believe this is the first book I'm reading by an African writer.
Yazar da bu geç kalmışlığın farkında ama kader olan coğrafyadan kurtuluş yok.Bir Buğday Tanesi, tarihsel olarak Kenya ulusal kurtuluş mücadelesinin en hararetli ve nihayetinde bağımsızlıkla sonuçlanan 1922 – 1963 yılları arasını kapsayan bir dönemde geçiyor.
Baş karakterlerimiz bu aralıkta yaşıyor, eyleme geçiyor, ya zafer ya ölüm ya da ihanete bulaşıyor.Geç kalmışlığın iki yanı var; kitap Kenya’nın bağımsızlığını kazanmasından 4 yıl sonra, erken bir tarihte yazılıyor.
Yazar, kendi kişisel tarihinde temel olan bu dönemi anlatmak isterken bu geç kalmışlığın kendi de farkında ve kurgu içinde bunu aşmaya çalışmış, ne kadar becerdiği ise tartışılır.
O zaman şöyle diyelim, geç kaldığının farkında olan bir yazarın anlatmak zorunda olduğu bir kitap bu.
Bu coğrafyadan okuduğum ilk edebi eser sanırım buydu. Afrika, Kenya, Hindistan gibi coğrafyalarda yıllardır hangi majör kovboyların at koşturduğunu malûm duyup, okuyoruz. Sömürgenin 1800'lerden beri nasıl teknik ve boyut değiştirdiğine de çok güzel bir örnek kitap olmuş aslında. Kitabı farklılaştıran sanırım konusu değil çünkü bu konu farklı coğrafyalarda darbe, içsavaş, terör gibi farklı yüzleriyle çokça edebiyat, sinema gibi sanatın duyarıyla bizi yüzyüze getirdi. Kitabı ve konuyu farklı kılan karakterlerin samimi anlatımı, aile ilişkilerinin, ihanetin işlenişi, sömürge gibi büyük başlığın yanında detay kalmadan aktarılması sanırım. Saygılar.
A Grain of Wheat centres a political narrative about the struggle for independence and liberation in Kenya; about rebellion against British imperialism, and on this level it is searing, laying bare the injustice from the point of view of a richly varied cast of rural Kenyan people.
He gives space to the character of each of the people in the village, revealing their motives in all their ambiguity and mystery.The book shifts its tone from the magnified detail of the psychological novel to the broader framing of folk-anecdote and the rhythmic transmission of oral tradition, addressing the reader as an unidentified 'I', encompassing the village and sinking, a polymorphous identity, into the crowd.
It's awful and unsettling in so many ways.I think that for me, the book is not about Uhuru/Kenyan independence, or even the fight for it.
For me, the book is mostly about the horrific effects of colonialism on the people, not just the Africans, but mostly the Africans, but also the effects, in glimpses, of the African culture on the African people.
(Or, rather, was that the traditional African culture, or how it became under the brutalization that was normalized under colonization?) "Colonial" sounds almost pretty to an American in the 21st century.
Frederick Jameson üçüncü dünyanın romanının bir toplumsal alegori olduğunu söylüyormuş. Jameson'ın bu tespiti şarkiyatçı anlayışın üçüncü dünya ile ilgili toptancı mantığı şeklinde suçlansa dahi yanlışlanması zor. Alegorik olmaktan başka çaresi de yoktur belki de söz konusu dünyanın romanının. Mesela bu romanın yazıldığı dönemde kıta Afrika'sının insanları henüz insan olduklarını bile kabul ettirememişler.
Two Hearts(are better than one?)I could start with two quotes, words spoken by two characters in two very different dialogues:«Which of us does not carry a weight in the heart?» And:«Strike terror in the heart of the oppressor.»A Grain of Wheat, 1967: we are just a few years from the end of colonial rule (the day of proclamation of the independence of Kenya is December 12, 1963) and there is nothing celebratory.Indeed, the dominant theme is betrayal, ubiquitous in all its meanings and ramifications.And, with betrayal, existential solitude, involving everyone (even whites): the consequence of frustrated aspirations to communion with the others («a time will come when you too will know that every man in the world is alone, and fights alone, to live», says a character).But all this joins to the need for revolt, to fragments of mythical tale of struggles, to strong contact with the earth.Who tells the story?
AFRICAN BOOKS MARATHON BOOK: 4TITLE: A Grain of WheatAUTHOR: Ngũgĩ wa Thiong’oCOUNTRY: KenyaThis was not an easy novel. The exchange between the present and the past was (mainly at the beginning) confusing, but you get used to it as the novel progress. The same goes with the names. You don't know if Mumbi is a woman or a man, or if Karanja is a she or a he. But you get used to it as well. The present time of A Grain of Wheat takes place in the 4 days before Kenya's independence from the British
The present time of A Grain of Wheat takes place in the 4 days before Kenya's independence from the British Empire in December 1963.The past time takes place during the Emergency in the 1950's during the Mau Mau rebellion against the European settlers.
The irony (if it's possible to be applied here) is that he, the European, cultured, western man is more savage and inhuman than the people of Africa that Europeans always (simplistically) perceived as the savages of the jungle.Myself, even though not a Kenyan, I saw similarities of Kenya's revolt of the Mau-Mau, with Cyprus' revolt of EOKA against the same enemy, the British Empire, both revolts happened in the 1950's.
It is a rallying cry for freedom fighters and the name given to the day when Kenya became an independent country in 1963.
Viewed from a distance of years and oceans, the lead-up to independence and ultimate triumph over the colonialists is unequivocally a time of celebration for Kenyans.
In the honest words of one freedom fighter, "Many of us talked like that because we wanted to deceive ourselves.
The momentum builds as the day of Uhuru dawns and the murky events of the preceding years are gradually drawn into sharper focus, with all the suspense of a thriller that is magnificently captured by a long-distance race on the morning of Independence.
La puntuación justo recién acabado sería de un 4'5 No sabría decir porqué no me ha acabado de parecer redonda. Lo tengo que dejar reposar.De todos modos es desgarradora
There’s something slightly topical about that at the moment; not just because we recently learned that Barack Obama’s grandfather was tortured by the British at that period, but also because insurgents being detained without trial and tortured have been in the news recently.I didn’t read the book, though, as being principally about the relationship between colonist and colonised.
All this is told in flashback, so we gradually learn how characters became the way they are.Obviously none of this would have happened if it wasn’t for the British, so they (we) are central in that sense, but still, the novel is building up to Uhuru, when the young Duke of Edinburgh will sit in a stadium in Nairobi and watch the flags changing over, and the British part of the story will peter out.
Ngugi is one of my favorite authors. This novel is a stunning portrayal of British colonialism in Kenya in the lead up to Independence. What is most powerful is the narration that focuses on several characters through flashbacks about their relation to the British and to the Mau Mau resistance fighters. I especially love the way Ngugi portrays how many of these characters internalize colonialism and shows the damaging consequences of this not only on a personal level, but also on a communal one. The novel is absolutely extraordinary.
كلما أبحرت أكثر في الأدب الأفريقي، كلما تأكدت أكثر من أنه يخبئ النفائس بين حروفه، وكلما ازددت حبا لقراءة المزيد منهوهذه رواية تستحق القراءة، أبدع فيها أنغوجي بطريقة سرده للأحداث، فأمتعنا بمراوحته بين الماضي والحاضر، وبين مشاهد يتركها هنيهة ليعود ويركز الضوء عليها ثانية، مصورا إياها بعدسة سينيمائي مبدع، في مشاهد تخلو من الترتيب الزمني التقليدي أو السرد العادي...متصاعدا بالسرد ليرتب قطع الأحجية فتتضح الصورة أكثر فأكثر مع كل مشهد...متغلغلا لعمق الشخوص وخبايا نفوسهم فيكشف عما خفي منهمأنغوجي الذي عاد لاسمه الأفريقي في محاولة منه للتبرأ من عقدة الغربي، بعد عودته من بريطانيا، ليلتصق بتراب إفريقيا وثقافتها وتراثها، بعيدا عن مخلفات الاستعمار النفسية والمادية والتي غرسها المستعمر قبل مغادرته أرضها، ليهدم وراءه إرثا حضاريا وثقافيا عظيما...يرسم واقعا كينيا عاشت فيه كينيا تحت الاستعمار حتى تحررت منه.
The book continuously and unexpectedly went into flashback and it left me a bit confused, even though i do see this as one of the author's techniques and styles, I personally found it difficult to understand.
I however have so much for Kenya and their struggle for independence and the trials and tribulations they went through, whether it be betrayal by their own people or by the British.
It clearly depicted and painted a picture as to how the struggle for independence were for the Kenyans.
But i eventually got the concept of the book and began to understand the story line and got accustom to the author's style and technique.
I am no expert on African literature--or any literature for that matter--and bought this as a blind buy at my local, pure and simple.
In fact, I probably bought it on the basis of his name, shallow, yes, but it's served me well in the past: buy everything you can't pronounce.Ngugi's novel is a story of the last few days before Kenya became independent.
I'm not a huge fan of nested stories--narratives breaking off into plot after plot--but Ngugi does this with such grace and darkness that you don't even really notice until 40 pages later when it returns to the original conversation.
I used to assign this book to high school students.
The Mau Mau rebellion and the emergency are exciting to history students, I think.
When you think of all the similar stories of a colonial policy of concentration camps during a rebellion, the US in Vietnam and the Philippines, the Germans in South West Africa, the French in Algeria, the British in Malaysia and so on, this book is as relevant as anything to world history.
This makes it doubly interesting to students of history, as it explores the foundation myths of a nation.
An impressive novel that takes a bit of concentration to figure out the various characters and changes in the time of the event.
The story of the years leading up to Kenya's independence is told through a set of characters who represent the oppressor, the freedom fighter, the unwitting hero, and those who were traitors.
The author showed the impact of the fight for independence on all of these characters and also of the communities they lived in.
A story of Kenyan independence and the toll the preceding struggle took on people.Well, this is embarrassing--I don't know what to rate this.
I am so over books that among several main characters have only one female, and she there because she's related to or a love interest of the guys, none of whom are related to each other.) The backstory and hidden connections unfold nicely, and for a book written right after independence the book foreshadows later problems with corruption and failed government promises surprisingly well.If you decide to read this I'd advise finding an edition other than Heinemann's, which is ridiculously typo-ridden.
This is an absolutely brilliant piece of literature describing life in a Kenyan village in the aftermath of the war with Britain in the 1960s, where each villager has their own secret about their actions during the violence, slowly tearing everyone apart. Despite the grim premise, I really enjoyed reading this and got a insight into the life of people in a very different world.Will make you want to go to Kenya..
É sempre uma aula incrível sobre a história e costume do Quênia.
Eu gosto bastante da escrita de Thiong'o, mas essa história não me pegou muito.
É boa, mas não o suficiente.
Nós vemos a versões de vários personagens sobre o período que antecede o dia da independência do Quênia e como a guerra afetou os personagens.
Para mim, o ponto forte do livro é a História da independência e como o futuro pode frustar por acreditar em falsos heróis ou pessoas que de alguma forma não lutaram para mudar o futuro de que o país tão precisaria.
Como sempre.
4.5Historia ubicada en el periodo de la independencia de Kenia de las fuerzas Británicas, a través la mirada y sentir de una serie de personajes vemos discurrir la historia para alcanzar la liberación del país, así como las repercusiones y los cambios que conllevan este camino. Es muy interesante la lucidez del escritor para fijar puntos de vista de sus diferentes personajes sin parecer tomar partido por alguno, pero a la vez enarbolando la necesidad de recuperar la identidad del país. Salvo el tema religioso donde si se asienta claramente su postura de desacuerdo.
I've discovered that I'm strongly drawn to literature examining important historical moments from the point of view of fictional characters, and I'm a strong believer that in impossibly inhumane situations like this one, almost any personal choice or action is in fact a forced one, a reaction -- and, as such, can be forgiven or pardoned on some level if not condoned.
I am glad to see that Penguin has published this book (2010) and hope that it's not riddled with the same meaning-altering typos that the Heinemann is; this work deserves a well-edited publication.
All along I avoided reading writers who use the stream of unconsciousness , but this one couldn't but finish it..
I really hated the book and loved it at the same time ..
Wa thiong'o is such a great writer , and I loved his philosophy , I loved how he made me as an Algerian reader , believe in the black power over the Whitman .
Betrayal , love , determinism , friendship , and so many other subject has been tackled by James Wa thiong'o.
Still can't believe I finished it.
I have absolutely NO CLUE what really happened during most of this because it is not a book to take ages reading. I'm definitely going to have to re-read it to fully appreciate it because I THINK it's good? Am I allowed to say that?
I think my rating is more of a 4.5!This really surprised me! I was slightly confused at the beginning of the novel, but I grew so invested in these characters and their stories. Such a powerful, political and complex historical novel. It jumps from the present (1963 - Independence day in Kenya) to the characters' pasts and we see how their lives are interwoven and connected. The characters are complex and feel real.
The route to independence for Kenya was a violent and divisive one, while Tanzania had a mostly peaceful transition.The book is set post-independence, but concerns memories of actions during the 'unrest'.
Is he a hypocrite or is he naive?His experience is a minor part of the book, the important characters are the villagers, with all their different thoughts and experiences.
Kihaka is an idealist who talks of Jesus Christ and the need for sacrifice, who idolises Ghandi with his struggle for independence though passive resistance.
A theme of the book is the 'need' for heroes of the struggle to epitomise the new nation.
Who truly is a hero?There are costs to the peace as well.
In my opinion, A Grain of Wheat was much better, but also very different.The structure and style of A Grain of Wheat is certainly more complex and underscores Ngũgĩ's experience and education with western literature.
In each section of the novel, the perspective changes to a different person, and (as in reality) it was sometimes difficult to reconcile another character's view of the person with his own.
This is one of the best books I have read in a long time.
but I don't have time, so suffice it to say that this book takes a fascinating look at the aftermath of the fight for independence in Kenya.
Each character is treated with such compassion, and the book takes no moral stance, simply presenting events from everyone's point of view and leaving the reader to judge (or not).
He was by far my favorite character in the book.
This is the most psychologically intensive book by Ngũgĩ I am yet to read(I'm reading chronologically), because it questions the inner motives of actions that are often read as simple rights and wrongs - resistance and collaboration respectively- and shows that there was more at work in this volatile time- love, selfishness, loneliness, desires, anger.
In the end it forces you to consider what the independence definition of a hero ought to be, and that people's decisions were not simply guided by the question of whether to collaborate or to resist (during the War of Independence) at all times.
Basically it went like this: the Jury wanted to grant the Prize to Ngugi wa Thiong'o (in actual fact the joke was about a Japanese author) and they couldn't write the name correctly, therefore decided that Dylan was easier to remember and write.
This is just a joke, but it hides a truth: Ngugi is a great author.He delivers a political novel, highly committed, about Uhuru, Freedom, in December 1963, and the fight that brought it.
Indeed, it predates his writing in Gikuyu, although, at the end of the day, the books he's written in his native language have been translated into English by himself!
