https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25817531-what-she-knew
Just plug me into a non-stop connection to all future Gilly Macmillan books.
The panic weighs heavy from the get-go and Macmillan is relentless in her descriptive abilities.
I've yet to come upon an author who comes close to capturing police procedures and the depth and toll of their own human encounters."It was a poisonous sky: the death throes of last night's weather.
I remember thinking that it wasn't a good night for a small boy to be missing.
Not a good night at all."And Gilly Macmillan masterfully brings this story to closure like I've never seen before.
Bravo, Ms. Macmillan!
Rachel assumed that people watching would understand that she was a mother who just wanted her child back.
I frightened people because I was someone to whom the worst was happening, and they turned on me like a pack of dogs."After the press conference, Rachel is treated horribly both by the public and the press.
When you hear these stories both real and fiction about a parent looking away for a moment and their child disappearing it makes you want to put your kids back in the bubble.In my opinion this was an amazing debut psychological thriller.
GILLY MACMILLAN delivers an impressive and descriptive story that was interesting, believable, suspenseful, heartbreaking, and compelling.
The story is about a missing child, Ben who vanishes during a walk in the woods with his mother, Rachel who allows him to run ahead to the swings and the search for Ben as the clock is ticking to find him before it is too late.
What I particularly loved about this book was that you could really feel Rachel's pain and devastation through the detailed descriptive telling of this story.I have read quite a few novels about missing children but this one really resonated with me.
When Rachel, Ben's mother finally gets to the clearing of the playground, he's gone.
The Book focuses on Rachel's pain and struggle to deal with her loss, as well as DI Jim Clemo, who heads up the investigation to find Ben. The toll a missing child can have on the whole family as well as the investigative team weighs heavily.
The book brings in the role of the social media and how that can change the focus of an investigation.
How it is so easy to sit back in our own safe environments and cast judgment.
3.5 Stars…After a bit of a slow start, Gilly McMillan’s What She Knew became an engaging page-turner. Primarily told from the perspective of a mother who searches for her missing son, the novel’s strength, I think, lies in exploring whether our ideas about who we are matches up with reality. This reality isn’t just about the devastation of losing a child, but a new perspective on yourself, friends, family and the world which the spotlight of child abduction cases brings about. I had hoped things would stay a bit messier at the end, but this was still a satisfying read.
Usually mystery or thrillers aren't very good, even when I try to be more generous about the writing and the characters but wow I really enjoyed this one.
The writing was good and the characters were sympathetic.
I actually related to the characters and was rooting for Rachel through out the book.
I didn't see the ending coming and the way the story is developed it excellent because my excitement kept building up all the way to the climax, I felt so much anxiety about not knowing what was going to happen to Ben. Definitely one of the better mystery books I've read.
I struggled with this book and perhaps I have read too many novels lately about missing children.
I made the mistake of listening to this one on audio and its not that the narrator was bad but the book seemed to drag on forever and as an audio book it just didn't work for me.
There was nothing unique about this story and I kept thing something is going to bring this book back from the brink but unfortunately I was left disappointed.
By the books conclusion I was just happy to have finished and wasn't really surprised by the story's conclusion.An ok read but not one I will be recommending.
The toll the case takes on Jim is apparent and he becomes obsessed with finding Ben and bringing him home to his frantic mother.
The novel also highlights Rachel’s journey, as she faces public scrutiny, absorbs shocking revelations, and has all her solid relationships slip and slide away from her, while she finds strength from a few unlikely sources.
Racing against the clock setups always have that taut, edgy feel to them, and this book is no exception to that rule, but the story is deep on many levels, examining the toll a case like this one takes on all parties involved.
This is an  emotive  read, its an  enthralling  read, it touches you in places in your heart that you just cannot step back from and refuse to actually  feel  not only for the Mother of the missing child, but also for her ex husband, and, I have to say, the DI and the Police all surrounding this story.You can tell this author has really done her homework.
I hope I get to read many, many more of her books if they are anything like this.Its not just the subject matter I am writing about, its her style, its her indepth ability to be able to put into words the characters feelings, suffering, emotions that reach out to you and make you actually feel them too.
Ben is gone.From the opening chapter it is apparent that this author is firmly in charge, her writing is so confident, her pacing so perfect.
She shows the reader the cost of such tragedies, not just to the parents but to the police officers in charge of finding the child.
Truly an in depth look in all directions.
Yet, I trusted this author and did not even try to go ahead and guess at what would happen next.
Knew it would be revealed when it was meant to be revealed and no sooner.A brilliant début by an author with an amazing amount of talent.
Look forward to more.ARC from publisher.
This book had a good plot and it creeped me out knowing a child could disappear that quickly without his mother knowing or hearing.There were parts that I felt didn't need to be in this story...
She reminded me of an X thrown in with a bunch of Os. Nicky, Rachel's sister was a main character that I wasn't completely impressed by.
I was hoping life would be a little better for Rachel and especially Nicky (I thought she might end up knocked up and have a boy) but that didn't happen and John and Katrina float in and out of the story like butterflies...
In this case, young Benedict (Ben) Finch is out for a walk in the woods with his mum , Rachel and dog Skittle when he asks ”Can I have a go on the rope swing?
The heavy use of social media seems the perfect vehicle to expose, punish and try Rachel for letting Ben out of her sight and seems quite real given the public shaming exhibited online these days.
Macmillan writes with such raw emotion that I was hopelessly anxious the entire time.
😄Rachel Jenner is walking in the park with her eight-year-old son, Ben, when he asks if he can run ahead.
Can you IMAGINE?!!!!!!The panic in this one weighs heavily on your heart right from the get-go.
The clock just keeps ticking as every lead has to be run down.
The lead detective is focused and passionate, almost becoming desperate in his quest.
This is quite the emotional roller-coaster, literally hooking you right from the very first drop, and it just doesn't let you go.
I just follow the path that leads to me to what might be a good read: a particular author (Chevy Stevens Those Girls) and Joy Fielding's She's Not There), an enthusiastic review by another GR friend (What Was Mine), a chance on a new mystery writer (The Girls She Left Behind), an intriguing literary novel set in an interesting place (The Expatriates), etc...
I swear I don't seek out books about child abduction, but if it's a story line you can stomach, What She Knew is a strong addition to the list and definitely worth reading.

While not a page turner (for me at least), it was engaging and kept me entertained without being demanding.A little boy has disappeared and from the moment he's gone the story progresses with the alternating perspectives of the mother and the detective assigned to the case.
Information about the search for missing children is sandwiched in between chapters as well as how progress can be made or impeded by law enforcement and the media.In my opinion it was overly long which is why my pace slowed up but would be worth the read for a broad audience.
It was a thoughtful and intelligent take on subject matter that can be overly sensationalized, especially with the abundance of these books as of late.
Dang this was good.
What happens next is a disturbing portrait of how theses cases are handled by law enforcement, the media and the public using social media outlets with the family caught in the middle.
It soon became obvious to me that this story was less about a mystery and more about the psychological examination of those involved in child disappearances, from family and friends to the police charged with finding the child on through those on the perimeter (media, citizenry and those just interested).
The speed in which the mother is vilified in this story was heartbreaking, primarily because we get her point of view.
Not a page turner but definitely interesting. It kept my attention and had enough tension to make me want to read to the end. The book is told through two main perspectives but the mother's narrative was much more engaging IMHO. Not crazy about the audio but a good mystery thriller debut. 3.5 stars!
Rachel Jenner and her son Ben are enjoying a frequent tradition: spending time in the park with their dog, Skittle, when things take a turn.
Meanwhile Rachel is reeling from her decision to allow Ben to run ahead--one that's quickly questioned by her ex-husband and soon, the media.
As days pass by without a break in the case, the media quickly turns its harsh glare directly onto Rachel.
The format of the novel is unique -- we get Jim and Rachel's point of view, broken down by Day 1, 2, 3, etc.
This is a heart breaking story, following the disappearance of eight year old Ben Finch and told from the perspectives of his mother Rachel and Jim Clemo, the detective leading the investigation.It is a story full of raw emotion.
Both characters are telling their story twelve months on from the events, which have also left Jim broken emotionally and part of his narration is told in the form of sessions with a therapist.In addition the book also includes emails and extracts from blogs and forums.
Following a disastrous press conference, the public’s perception of Rachel is not good.
I go with my gut.What She Knew (aka Burnt Paper Sky which I personally prefer) is a serviceable thriller about a missing child and the media criticism and pressure that the case creates on the family.Mysteries / thrillers are a hard genre for me.
When I read The Girl on the Train and Sharp Objects I stayed up hours past when I normally fall asleep because I had to see how it would end.
Damn it, I wanted to care!
The plot is good, but there wasn't enough tension or memorable characters to really hook me.Big thanks to Edelweiss & William Morrow Paperbacks for the digital arc!
Rachel was grieving still for the loss of her marriage, but eight year old Ben was the light of her life.
He was running and playing – Skittle was full of energy and it seemed Ben was too.
Just before they were to head back to the car and home, Ben begged to play on the swings for a little bit – “Can I run ahead?” he asked… the decision Rachel made that day would live with her forever.
And would their lives ever be the same again?I absolutely loved this debut psychological thriller by author Gilly MacMillan.
4.5 Stars.Stunning ! ! ! !A pure psychological thriller, I'd like the pace of story.Huge wishes for Writer.I've really enjoyed it alot.Writer exceptionally derived the story with her intellects and fiction.That was mixing story line in which emotions as well Life's importance truly revealed as far as when it concerned among Mother and her Child.Highly recommended one.
1.99 Kindle Special.
12/15/16"Where is Ben?
A Sunday afternoon walk that single Mom, Rachel and her eight year old son Ben have enjoyed many times before turns into a Mother's worst nightmare.
The characters were well drawn, there was enough background information that resulted in a well developed plot.
The author does a wonderful job of relaying to us how each character deals with this crime during and after, including the investigators.
The closer I go to the the end the faster I read with heart pounding!
For those of you that haven't read it, the price remains at 1.99


Authors- stop giving two titles to your books-it’s annoying.I went into it blind as is my usual approach.
We find out very early on that Rachel and her son were walking in the woods together and that he goes missing.
Rachel decides to let him run ahead of her on the path to his favorite swing trying to show him that it is ok to take a little risk in life and be independent.
When Rachel approaches the still-swaying-swing she soon realizes that Benedict is not there.
I felt at several different points that I could have set the book down and not gone back to it.
Great debut...a kidnapping of Ben while with his mom in the woods, she lets him run ahead of her to a play structure and when she gets there he's gone.., could have been one of many people responsible... Loved the male detective..
Police are called and the search begins with everyone thinking that Ben simply got lost when he ran ahead of his mother.
What She Knew by Gilly Macmillan is the first book in the Jim Clemo thriller series.
Also, using social media really brought this one into current times to include what seems to happen with any big news story every day in real life.
The varying points of view in this story brought the reader not only into the mother's life as the worse thing that could happen to her happens but also into the other side with the law as the search begins.
