https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124509.Smilla_s_Sense_of_Snow
Miss Smilla and her cast of characters were so quirky that after 100 pages I found all this quirk over the front of my shirt, all over the dining table (well, I call it a dining table) and stuck between the keys on my keyboard. Had to get it out with a Swiss Army knife, once it had dried. Sent a sample off to the lab and the results came back "two parts David Lynch, three parts frankly unbelievable heroine, three parts uninvolving plot which moves at the speed of an exhausted glacier". As I thought.
Smilla Jaspersen, a Greenlander by birth now residing in Copenhagen, late thirties, single, lonely, moody, depressive, seemingly with a grudge against everything, the sort of girl you would take on a first date, ask to be excused to go to the bathroom only you make for the exit.But somewhere in the perpetual darkness she finds it in her heart to investigate the death of Isaiah, a small boy she befriended in her apartment block, who apparently fell of the roof whilst playing in the snow, but Smilla is an expert when it comes to cold weather conditions, and her knowledge of snow and ice makes her suspicious.
Which makes it easy for me to keep returning to this book.
It's a translation from Danish (by Tiina Nunnally) and beautiful and technical and never sentimental, and it touches on issues I find particularly interesting such as European culture versus aboriginal culture (in this case Danish vs.
Greenlandic) and the related issues of language and identity.
Also, if you're in a position to listen to audio books, the unabridged reading by Alyssa Bresnahan is amazing.
And a good idea if you want to know how to pronounce the Danish and Greenlandic words properly.
It took me two months to finish this book and not until the last three weeks and 150 pages of that endeavor did I realize that it is actually quite terrible.
Because when you begin this book it is primarily concerned with the slow unfolding of character.
You are tied to the titular Miss Smilla and her cynical absolutist world view.
It doesn't take long to figure out that she has no interest in providing you with a fair, unbiased (or just complete) view of herself and the situation you find her in.
It's the voice that keeps us interested--the 'mystery' of how Smilla's young neighbor fell off a roof is a secondary concern.
This is one peculiar read.
Yes, it (kinda) defies convention (its protagonist, Smilla Jaspersen, is a breath of fresh air & the way she deals with depression & inner demons in a place that simply screams KILL YOURSELF!
is both invigorating and poetic) but it is exactly this unpredictability that juxtaposes reader's feelings and reading styles...
Smilla goes everywhere by a splendid intuition which we are never truly invited to partake in.This book absolutely transports.
The noirish aspect of it makes it a thriller, but it is not an easy read in any regard.
As the plot unfolds and new information comes in, one knows more and more about Smilla as a person, but mysteriously less and less about how she will act in the future.
The more one knows about her life and her way of thinking, the less one can predict what she will do and why she will do it.
In the end even she herself doesn't seem to know!
This epistemological paradox seems to be one of the major lessons of the book: people that try to instrumentalize and exploit what they know inevitably do terrible things; people like Smilla who respect the limits of their knowledge.
Towards the end he suddenly remembers and throws in a paragraph about the boy, but by then the connection to that element has been lost beyond recovery.Also, Smilla is a bit of a Mary Sue. The longer I read about her, the more she got on my nerves.
Apparently, he doesn't know the Danish for “no” or “not bad.” While Smilla, who says she is “helpless in two or three other languages” uses highly specific German vocabulary like “Strafermäßigung.” Finally, the book makes many absolute statements that are far from convincing, for example that “the important information always comes last.” Gee, judging by most newspaper articles I've ever read, you'd think the opposite was the case.
This is an interesting and somewhat convoluted thriller, whose laconic prose and narrative voice kept me interested even when the pacing (which is a bit uneven) was a little off. It's really that narrative voice that raises this a notch above your standard genre thriller, although the end did partake somewhat disappointingly in convention. Overall, another good Frozen Fiction read.
But she opens her heart to Isaiah, a young boy whom life has also wounded.
When Isaiah dies, falling several stories from the snow-covered roof of a warehouse, she is forced out of her comfortable isolation to ask questions.
"We consider the case closed," the police tell her, but Miss Smilla has a feeling for snow, and she knows this was no accident.
Isaiah was running when he went over the edge.
For readers with a scientific bent, he has seeded the pages with references to mathematics, physics, biology, chemistry and philosophy, not to mention detailed descriptions of the harsh Greenlander way of life.Whatever else there might be to say about this book, I am certain of one thing: I won't forget Smilla in a hurry.
Before I visited Europe, my friends would all tell me to visit Copenhagen.
They said that it’s one of the most beautiful European cities and the Danes are the friendliest people in Europe.
Copenhagen is a dark, cold and corrupt place and the Danes, a shifty, secretive and lethal bunch.Enter Smilla, one of the more interesting protagonists I’ve come across, who is half Danish and half Inuit.
An excellent thriller and because it takes place in the cold, frozen north, the perfect antidote for the hot, summer weather.Note: If you’ve seen the film, the book does not have the same b.s. ending.
They're both, at their cores, books which say "this woman is real weird and kind of unpleasant and seems like she might not bathe frequently, but everyone who meets her thinks, 'damn, you's one cool chick.'" Why do they think that?
No one is like, hey, it's kind of creepy when you come into my office and think to yourself "I will just sit in absolute silence until you tell me everything I need to know, which you will somehow magically intuit."This is also a book in which the movement of people through space is confusing.
Also, the mysterious aspect of this story doesn’t really seem to be the centre of the work—I think that Høeg was much more interested in the colonial relationship between Denmark and Greenland than in who killed the child, Isaiah.It wouldn’t surprise me to learn that Stieg Larsson had read Smilla before he wrote his Millennium series.
Both of them take physical punishment during the course of the story but it doesn’t deter them from their goals—they seem unstoppable.Smilla is the perfect main character for exploring the Danish colonial situation—her mother is Greenlandic Inuit and her father is a rich & famous Danish doctor.
But surely when you are undertaking a scientific mission, even an evil and mad scientific mission to a giant meteor (which may or may not be alive), you don't endanger the science by trying to smuggle illegal drugs on the boat at the same time or alert the potential suspicions of the authorities by crewing the boat almost entirely with people who have been involved in the drugs trade, particularly when the ambition (besides making money) of one of the lead evil mad scientists is to win scientific renown.
For one thing, the narrator and would-be detective is Smilla Jaspersen: a 37-year-old mathematician and former Arctic expedition navigator with a Danish father and Greenlander mother, she’s a stylish dresser and a shrewd, bold questioner who makes herself unpopular by nosing about where she doesn’t belong.Isaiah, a little Greenlander boy, has fallen to his death from the roof of their Copenhagen apartment complex, and she’s convinced that foul play was involved: The boy had such a crippling fear of heights that he never would have been up there had he not been threatened or pursued.
Ένα ακόμη βιβλίο που μου πόνεσε το κεφάλι. Ο μόνος λόγος που το τελείωσα είναι επειδή το θέμα του μου τράβηξε το ενδιαφέρον. Η όλη εκτέλεση της πλοκής ήταν τρομερά βαρετή και οι χαρακτήρες μου φάνηκαν όλοι ανεξαιρέτως αδιάφοροι. Ο συγγραφέας σε πολλά σημεία υπερανέλυε χωρίς ουσία και ενώ το βιβλίο είναι γραμμένο σε πρώτο πρόσωπο, ένιωθα φορές πως μιλούσε ο συγγραφέας και όχι η πρωταγωνίστρια. Μακριά.
The police are all like "Accident!" but Smilla is all like "Bullshit!" because there's nothing about the scene that makes it look like this kid died from an accident.It's okay, though, Smilla will figure it out.This was a highly readable and interesting book, and now I'm going to piss everyone off by comparing Smilla to another female protagonist that I have previously said I couldn't fucking stand: Lisbeth Salander.Yes, that Lisbeth that you all know and love from the Millennium Trilogy.
This book has the distinction of opening the American and British floodgates to Nordic waters and to this gigantic mass of ice hidden beneath the sea's surface of which it alone is the very tip.This single novel epitomizes the Nordic invasion: it experiments with literary language, bends point of view, upsets narration, gives immediancy to tense, offers sociopolitical insights and does so while remaining faithful to popular fiction, by being wedded to an exquisite murder mystery.And so it is 1996 and the ice storm hits our shores in the form of an unlikely heroine named Smilla Jaspersen.
Complex characters, dizzying plot, starkly beautiful language, and tremendous psychological insights.
This cult classic has a lot of things going for it.
Miss Smilla is a stylish, engaging heroine with terrific dress sense, dark wit, courage under fire and fluency in Greenlandic.
(I believe it's West Greenlandic if you care about that kind of thing).
At one point, she performs an imaginative sex act that I've never seen described in any other place.
I guess he fooled me into believing that he'd deliver, and he tried to make it look like he was, so I felt cheated.
You couldn't find it in the video store under "Smilla" because it was translated (into Serbian) as "Miss Smilla's Feeling for Snow." No, this is not Serbian originality: the British translation is the one with "feeling", the US one is "sensible." But it's the same book.I guess I never knew that Greenland was a Danish province, or shall we say, a colony.
So here is a book that draws together a number of interesting threads: murder mystery, post-colonialism, immigration, scientific madness, love.
It's a story of a perfectly self-sufficient and self-possessed woman, Smilla, part Danish part Greenlander, who discovers that the only person she's ever really cared for, Isaiah, a little boy from her building, was killed.
I picked up this book for free, because it was a title I knew I'd heard.
Once I started reading it, I was initially put off by the narrator/protagonist, Smilla, whose tone is aloof, cool, self-absorbed.
I was also put off by realizing it is a mystery that borders on "thriller"...not my usual preferred genre.However, I found myself drawn back to the book until I became engrossed in the story.
About halfway through the book, I started underlining passages, turns of phrase that I liked, observations that startled me...and there were many.
I'm interested to read more of the author's work, now.
Smilla definitely "grew" on me.
In the process she unknowingly opens up a can of worms...Yes, definitely worms...It was not a high-rolling suspense thriller, compared to other books in the genre, but still informative and a good read.
The ice and snow were everywhere, including the characters' psyche.
While people was frolicking around in our swimming pool, slapping steaks and chops on barbeque fires and drinking ice cold beers to escape the scorching summer temperatures of the southern hemisphere, I was reading this book, getting caught up in the darkness of the Norwegian environment and the people's souls.
Set in Denmark and Greenland, you should probably make sure you are wearing your kamiks!This is the second of the author's books I've read, the first being The Quiet Girl.
I think I would really have enjoyed listening to this one, as I'm never sure how to pronounce all those words with the O's with the lines through them.Also, I did have a little problem following all the names and characters.
I'm sure I missed some detail or other.It was a wonderful thriller.
(I do love me a good conspiracy novel.)Also, a smattering of the supernatural is added into the mix.
Mulder & Scully are coming back!!) The Quiet Girl also had a little supernatural feel too.
I found this a long and difficult book to read.
All the unfamiliar Danish and Greenlandic names of people and places were also a bit disconcerting.At its most basic this is a story of a little boy who dies when he fell from the roof of his house, or seems to have.
She start making enquiries and discovers that something nefarious has been going on in Greenland of and on for the last 50 years.
I don't mind open ended ending but this ending just left me thinking, why did I waste 15 hours of my life reading this.I only recommend this book for people who like obscure Scandinavian writing.
Found this sorting out my stored books... Don't remember a thing... So, I guess it was a 2-star.
This is one of my favourite exciting stories to read.
Once you get in to it it is hard to stop reading.
Everytime I read it I discover something new.
But one of the neighbours, Smilla from Greenland refuses to buy the police explanation and sets out on a quest to find the truth about her friend.
Because Smilla is from Greenland she knows all these things about snow that the police and most of the rest of us don't - which pulls her into very dangerous situations.
I keep discovering new things!
Ένα πολύ καλό αστυνομικό (και όχι μόνο αστυνομικό) βιβλίο. Το πρώτο μισό ήταν πιο δυνατό από το δεύτερο. Για την ακρίβεια οι τελευταίες 150 σελίδες είναι λίγο κουραστικές, οι συνεχείς περιγραφές και αναφορές στον πάγο κάπου αφαιρούν το ρυθμό της πλοκής, αλλά σίγουρα αξίζει να διαβαστεί από τους φαν του είδους. Και από τους μη φαν βέβαια, διότι δεν είναι αμιγώς αστυνομικό.
One snowy day in Copenhagen, six-year-old Isaiah falls to his death from a city rooftop.The police pronounce it an accident. But Isaiah's neighbour, Smilla, an expert in the ways of snow and ice, suspects murder. She embarks on a dangerous quest to find the truth, following a path of clues as clear to her as footsteps in the snow.
My first time to read a book from Denmark and originally written in Danish.
My first time to learn many things about snow.
This book made me want to go to Greenland and learn all the things Smilla Jasperson knows and senses about snow.The story is about Smilla, who is half-Danish (father) and half-Greenlander (mother).
However, I could not understand everything mentioned in the book about mathematics and snow because I have no time to google them to learn better.
So, I just read and read and ignored those things mentioned in the book.Well, we have the genius Smilla.
The premise is an interesting enough hook - a boy has fallen off a snow laden roof.
Elsa gives Smilla the key and secret code that allow her to break into the Cryolite Corporation's archives holding an expedition log book, Elsa's reasons fairly incomprehensible.
Why is the ship carrying heroin in a fridge when it is travelling to an isolated glacier and back.
Why is Smilla even let on board the ship anyway.
If her intuition for snow is the reason, why then are most of the other crew members on board trying to kill her.
