https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/865094.Le_C_t_de_Guermantes_I
داستان نويس بودن نيازى به گذراندن پيش نياز فلسفه و روانكاوى ندارد، اين را پيش از اين عباس معروفى هم در این سو و آن سوی متن گفته بود، اگر هم نياز به روانشناسى و فلسفه خواندن باشد، تنها براى اين است كه ذهن نويسنده بازتر شود و بتواند چيزهاى بيشترى را ببيند، نه براى آن كه مستقيم از نظريات روانشناسى و فلسفى در داستان استفاده كند.
My mother’s uncle James whom she often spoke about but whom I never met or even saw in a photograph, became, in my mind’s eye, a figure in a dark suit, white shirt and check tie.
The images in my head were mostly invented but sometimes supported by the tiny, faded oval of whiteness peering out of an old photograph.
So I endowed the dark figure with an umbrella and at the mention of her name, the sky gained a new type of bird as Aunt Ann floated off among the clouds.Names, both place names and people’s names have dominated Proust’s A la Recherche du Temps Perdu from the very beginning.
Marcel and his family have moved to Paris, taking us away from both Combray and Balbec that we’ve come to know so well, and into an apartment next to the home of Mme and Monsieur Guermantes.
He’ll arrange entire fictions around the names of things, and he’s done so with the name Guermantes as well, leading to an extraordinary fascination with Mme Guermantes.
Marcel is infatuated with Mme Guermantes, to the point where he starts following her around, talking about his love for her (which is really not love at all).
I’m doing this more for me, to remember what was immediately important in each book.
“Livet er for kort, og Proust er for lang”, skrev Anatole France i 1913.
Er K også ved at gå kold?Anatole France fældede sin berømte dom over Proust allerede efter udgivelsen af kun første del af På sporet af den tabte tid, Swanns verden.
Og jeg var stadig begejstret efter anden del, I skyggen af unge piger i blomst (bind 3-4 i den nye danske oversættelse).Men jeg må bringe den tilståelse, at der var tider under læsningen af mammutværkets tredje del, Guermantes’ verden (bind 5-6), hvor Anatole Frances diktum bevægede sig længere og længere frem i pandelappen.For pokker da, hvor går det bare langsomt for Proust, hvor er han omstændelig, og hvor kan han dog bare ikke gøre sig færdig med sine temaer!Læs hele min anmeldelse her: http://bognoter.dk/2014/11/20/marcel-...
Lecture 17 de ∞ce n’est pas moi qui le dit c’est le narrateur mais il dit : « un langage de mode néo
Marcel and family move back into town. Marcel attempts to meet a Duchess.
Simplement charmant
The narrator finally starts to go out into society and his reflections on it are as intriguing as his descriptions of nature, if not more so.
Though the endless opinions on the Dreyfuss affair get tedious, I surprised myself being sucked in by Saint-Loup's long description of military strategy as art, (and wondered how many modern generals would dare philosophize in such a way).My favorite passage is towards the beginning where the narrator describes sound as incessant noise, then muffled sound as though everything is far away, and then deafness, with the culminating image of a building collapsing silently to ruins.
Breathtaking!This is only the first half of Le côté de Guermantes and it ends rather abruptly, making it hard not to slip right to part II.
There is no one like Proust and there will never be....He is a genius, when he is good - he is the best. However, there are these long discussions about: "mais il est le frére de ...." , "mais cest mon cousin, il est le frére cadet de la princesse de Guermantes." In other words, way too long. But everytime I was going throw the Guermantes out of the window, Proust comes up with these incredible insights....
There is no one like Proust and there will never be....He is a genius, when he is good - he is the best. However, there are these long discussions about: "mais il est le frére de ...." , "mais c´est mon cousin, il est le frére cadet de la princesse de Guermantes." In other words, way too long. But everytime I was going throw the Guermantes out of the window, Proust comes up with these incredible insights....
Especially the aristocratic salon scenes are central to this part. Drawing of the hypocritical environment around mme de Guermantes. A bit tough to digest by the detailed description. But, once again, beautiful passages, like the agony of Bergotte on his death bed.
Le côté des Guermantes I by Marcel Proust
