https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6281762-palladian
3.5/Es como una taza de té, sutil, aromático, pero también añejo, con tintes de humedad y amargura. La historia es bonita y la carácterizacion de sus personajes perfecta, así como el ambiente de la casa describe muy bien a sus moradores, pero me ha faltado algo...
Taylor seems to throw them all together in what initially seems a fairly formulaic way and the reader does wonder where it’s all going.Of course the novel does revolve around the relationship between Cassandra and Marion, but they are rather insipid characters and the real spark is provided by the rest of the cast.
The character of Marion Vanburgh does nothing of any use and has appalling parenting skills; he is rather absurd and disconnected and it is almost as though Taylor is saying that it’s all over for this way of life.It’s an easy read and it is fun trying to spot how many references to other novels you can spot.
Palladian published in 1946 is Elizabeth Taylor's second novel and tells the story of Cassandra Dash
Having unhealthily indulged in reading novels, which she views as guides for life, she has come to the conclusion that she must fall in love with the master of the house.
Once she arrives at the estate, however, she discovers that the gentleman is mostly ensconced in his library, where he is deeply engaged in the study of dead languages—even as the house, with its Palladian front, falls to rack and ruin about him.
She was at the centre of a love triangle that contributed to the ruin of the house and the family.
I thought it was funny how my first book was her penultimate novel, Mrs. Palfrey at the Claremont, which I followed up immediately with her first novel, At Mrs Lippincote's, so I could get a feel for the progression of her writing over time.
Although this book was slim, I had a hard time getting through it.
I didn't look forward to picking it up each night, even though I should have, as it seems to be a nod to Jane Eyre, one of my favorite novels ever.
El libro de Jane Austen es una parodia del género de misterio gótico muy en boga en su época disfrazada de novela costumbrista y Austen perfila sus personajes buscando siempre aquellas excentricidades que los hagan graciosos u objetos de burla.
Lo cual no quiere decir que esta novela no tenga momentos graciosos o de ironía típicamente inglesa, los tiene (La Señora Turner podría ser la reencarnación de Jane Austen), pero se preocupa de mostrarte unos personajes que, por muchas rarezas que parezcan tener, no dejan de ser personas a las que puedes entender.
¿Lo que más me ha gustado de La señorita Dashwood?
Por ejemplo: entre la protagonista de este libro (Cassandra) y Jane Eyre, existen similitudes.
Y, sin ir más lejos, Dashwood es el apellido de las hermanas protagonistas de Sentido y Sensibilidad, de Jane Austen.
Por lo que se podría decir que esta novela tiene muchos tintes a las hermanas Brontë.Personalmente, ¡me ha fascinado!
Sin duda alguna, La señorita Dashwood se ha coronado como una de las mejores lecturas del año.
Si te gusta Jane Austen o las hermanas Brontë...
Principalmente, por el ritmo tan sumamente pausado que tiene.
I believe Taylor may have been interested in examining the circumstances of the young girl left with the choice of governess in a closed environment working for and experiencing unusual family members.
As usual, the amazing Elizabeth Taylor opens a window on the very close quarters of lives that are complicated, unfulfilled, lonely, painful, underrated, and writes with sensitivity and respect.
Taylor's work has been publiished by Virago Modern Classics and by NYRB and adds so much to the literature of women in the 20th century.
The war, which was ever present in At Miss Lippincote’s seems to not touch this book at all, it exists in some literary dimension in which tropes from Jane Eyre exist alongside tributes to Jane Austen in the manor, a place of memories, stories, and studies, while Tom, cousin to the Mr. Rochester-ish master of the house, Marion, spends his time drinking, drowning his boredom and life at the village pub.
This feels more like a first book than AML did, or, perhaps, more like a literary exercise that grew into a novel.
Tiene más de las Brontë que de Austen, y es imposible no ver el homenaje a "Rebeca"Ha sido una lectura sorprendente y muy distinta a lo que me esperaba. :)
I was thinking: "This is a very Jane Eyre situation!"... and suddenly Cassandra says to herself: "Jane Eyre had answered up better than that to her Mr Rochester"...(Even here, as in At Mrs. Lippincote's, the characters are great readers)
The second book for The Elizabeth Taylor Reading Project. Elizabeth Taylor writes such marvellous characters. They are deeply flawed and not particularly likeable, but they are so believable.
Palladian is ‘on one level, her rewriting of Jane Eyre‘; one of my favourite novels.Originally published in 1946, Taylor’s second novel Palladian has found its way, along with much of her other work, onto the marvellous Virago Modern Classics list.
In his well written but perhaps over-thoughtful introduction to the volume, Neel Mukherjee writes that, ‘there is an answering literariness that runs as a dazzling seam through the book’.Despite the premise and strong writing, I actually found Palladian to be rather a disappointing novel.
What a weird little book. Partially a traditional English-governess-falls-for-the-head-of-the-house narrative, partially a commentary on class distinctions and cultural divisions as they fell apart and realigned in the 1940s, partially a series of thoughts on relationships and how people can work together even through and after a terrible history. The use of anachronism as a device is really interesting.
0,4 estrellas La señorita Dashwood (Palladian).Su prosa me recordó más a Daphne du Maurier mezclado con un poco de las hermanas Brontë. Es muy prolija al definir los personajes. Es detallista y elegante y no deja cabos sueltos como ocurre con las novelas modernas. Es un verdadero gusto leer a esta autora que hasta hace poco era desconocida para mi.
And, after her father’s recent death, she is alone in the world.Fortunately Mrs. Turner, her former headmistress, takes an interest in Cassandra, and finds her a post: Marion Vanbrugh is a widower with a young daughter, Sophy, and he needs a governess.It was so, so easy for Cassandra to cast herself and Jane Eyre and Marion as Mr Rochester.But reality would prove to be a little different.Marion was as quiet, bookish and dull as Cassandra.
There are small, subtle changes, and there is one sudden, tragic, utterly real event that will change everythingEverything is driven by the characters; characters I found difficult to like, but they were pinpointed so accurately that I was always fascinated.
My favourite author, and even in this early work her wonderful insight, gentle with and pathos are all there. Cassandra, recently orphaned, goes to the mansion home of Marion Vanburgh to become governess to his daughter. It references, deliberately, Jane Eyre, Northanger Abbey and perhaps even a little of Rebecca but it is still entirely original and it offers surprises, shocks and sadnesses that make it a book that remains with you after the last page has turned.
1.5* Good writing, lackluster plot. Just not my kind of book, really. Any comparison to Jane Eyre verges on the ludicrous. I don't mean to be harsh - and I would try another of E.T.'s books - it's the subject matter rather than the writing, I think. Not for me.
Cassandra Dashwood takes up the post of governess to Sophy Vanbrugh, who lives with her father Marion, a number of his relatives, and their ancient Nanny, in a rambling Manor House.
The Classical world of the Palladian house is contrasted with the romantic ideas that Cassandra fills her head with, but both are shown to be lacking and moribund in the post-War world that Taylor evokes.
I found this book quite fascinating, and am looking forward to reading my next Elizabeth Taylor novel.
I liked this second novel of Taylor's better than her first.
Her characters are still not especially likable, but I didn't dislike them as much.
We don't see her pine for what cannot be, but that is probably accounts at least in part for her weakness of character.
I said I didn't want her to be different, but I might have liked her a bit better had she had a little starch.Others have said Taylor has humor.
For this one, while better than the previous I read, it is not appreciably enough better to upgrade it, so still 4-stars.
Her sense of the world and the life, her fears and hopes seem so similar to mine that each time (when I read her book) I feel almost overwhelmed.
But I know that what Elizabeth Taylor wanted to tell me is worth a bit struggle.
In 'Palladian' were quite many such moments (for example in 'A View of the Harbour', 'The Sleeping Beauty' and 'In a Summer Season' were much much less.)Anxiety is the modern affliction, belonging to the long twilights, the uncertain modern weather; neither sun nor snow and neither grief nor joy.I think, that the book could have been titled: 'The anxiety' or 'Death and anxiety'.
At the heart is Cassandra, the young woman heading to her first job as governess, who is determined to fall in love with her employer ("Cassandra, with all her novel-reading, could be sure of experiencing the proper emotions...").
The whole "love story" is built on death--the death of Cassandra's parents (which leads to her taking the job), the death of her employer's wife and then, shockingly, the death of Cassandra's young charge.
Brilliant and subtle. Should be read alongside Waugh's Brideshead Revisited for any attempt to understand the postwar decline of the British upper class and the rifts in the middle and working classes. It's a Victorian novel that's been squeezed and distorted -- as England has been squeezed and distorted by the conflicts and changes of the 20th century.
Thrust out into the world at the age of twenty after the death of her father, Cassandra Dashwood takes up a post as governess to the young daughter of a widowed man.
She goes off fully prepared to fall in love with her employer in true Jane Eyre fashion.
There are many nods to the Brontes and Jane Austen in this novel, but most of them are treated with heavy irony.
The characters are weak and powerless, and their lives, like their house, are crumbling around them.
It’s clever and funny and I enjoyed reading it, but I’m glad I don’t have to live in their world!
There are moments, when I found some of the conversation between characters, particularly Marion Vanbrugh and Cassandra a little too intense – and less convincing than I usually find Elizabeth Taylor’s interactions between her characters.
In her story we have Elizabeth Taylor’s affectionate nod to Bronte and Austen – Cassandra’s dreams fuelled by literature – her orphaned state – the role of governess in a large manor house, a widowed employer, a beautiful dead wife.
Her employer Marion Vanbrugh and his daughter Sophy are not the only inhabitants of Cropthorne Manor.
The writing is marvelous--beautiful prose with a sharp eye for the unexpectedly revealing detail-- but I was disappointed in Palladian overall. There is a strong element of pastiche--Jane Eyre set in Northgranger Abbey--and the unreality of the pastiche situation conflicted with the realistic descriptions and elements. The secondary characters and setting were clearly drawn, while the principals, Cassandra and Marion, were less realized, as though the background of the picture was sharp and the foreground blurred. For me, the book didn’t coalesce.
In this one, Cassandra becomes a governess to Sophy, who was the engaging character in the novel. Sophy is part of a rather dysfunctional family headed by vague and anxious Aunt Tinty. Sophy's father Marion shelters in the library as the home crumbles around him. I hated the climax and wanted to throw the book across the room. However, the novel was a worthwhile for beautiful writing, unusual characters and as a riff on Austen and Bronte's coming of age stories.
MORE ELIZABETH TAYLOR PLEASE.
La trama è piuttosto banale: una giovane donna rimane orfana e accetta un posto come governante presso un vedovo che ha una bambina piccola.
Nella stessa casa vivono altri personaggi che, pur essendo secondari, sembrano costituire la parte più interessante del romanzo (aiutati dal fatto che i personaggi principali sembrano un po' sfuocati).
Il romanzo ricorda un po' la Austen di Northanger Abbey, molto Jane Eyre di Charlotte Bronte, e altre autrici di cui ora ricordo solo Ivy Compton-Burnett (per i dialoghi assurdi) e la Stella Gibbons di Cold Comfort Farm.
Este es de los pocos libros que he comprado por iniciativa sin haber escuchado alguna reseña.
Sentía que ella quería ser como una Jane Eyre (Y la entiendo todas queremos ser Jane Eyre), pero no sé, había veces que no entendía qué onda con ella y no solo ella los otros personajes, el único que quizá me gusto fue Tom. Y por un momento cuando fui entendiendo a Tom me imagine otro tipo de historia que me pareció más interesante en mi mente, pero que jamás llego al libro.
