https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161892-savage-night
I should've known that a man with such a rotten view of humanity came from the birthplace of so many rotten things, including my own rotten view of humanity.No surprise, this book is rotten, though occasionally quite funny.
Under threat of death if he fails, he proceeds to plan a murder made to look like an accident.
Carnage ensues.Lessons: Before you kiss a man, pull at his front teeth to make sure they don't come out.
Even if you think it's sexy to plan a man's murder with his wife as your accomplice, consider for a moment what else that situation might imply about her.
Too bad Bigelow gets entangled with the man's wife...No two ways about it; there's a lot of weird stuff going on in this one.
While it's definitely a second tier Thompson, it's still a good read.
Has Thompson ever told a story where the narrator isn't unreliable?
The supporting cast drove the story along, specifically wondering which of them, if any, were working for The Man. There were a ton of twists at the end that I didn't really see coming.
I wouldn't start my Jim Thompson reading with this one though.
Best last two pages ever.
kind of the batshit version of cain, hammett, & chandler. sluggishly paced, schematic, w/o much true conflict -- flawed, for sure, but elevated by the vagina farm, all those damn goats, a femme fatale on crutches with a baby foot jutting out of her knee, and those transcendent last few pages. 3.7 rounded down b/c i'm mean.
This is one of my favorite pulp crime novels.
Jim Thompson is a master at pedestrian dialogue in the first person structure (see also the Killer Inside Me and After Dark My Sweet), especially in this novel.
The narrative is a strange journey into a surreal and maddening hell.
From the description of Carl's journey through Grand Central Station where he actually hits a woman with a child in the breast to the flash back of him being picked up by the strange porn writer who talks about growing the better parts of the female anatomy on his farm.
Absolutely one of my favorite American crime novels by one the best crime writers.

BOOK 71: Mid-20th Century North American Crime Readathon - Round 2HOOK=4 stars: "The Man" is going to pay our narrator [Carl] $30,000 to do a job.
The final pages are great, but did they come to Thompson in a dream the night before he typed the final pages?CHARACTERS=4: Our narrator, Carl, is about 5 feet tall, is very ill, and often vomits.
Above an average cast.ATMOSPHERE/PLACE=4: I thought this great: a group of characters stay through Sunday School and Church and by the time Church ends, Carl had figured out the plan to kill the victim.
Deranged existentialist noir filtered through an unreliable first-person narrator who is a schizophrenic hit man with tuberculosis.
Is the novel flawed or genius?
First time through I struggled a bit with the pacing because some of the scenes appear filler and move slow and the dialog is full of dashes and ellipses and stuttered words.
Those filler scenes are packed full of clues and edginess that only become apparent later as the story winds down and the narrator unravels.
A pulp noir with grotesque and carnivalesque styling.
Thompson is in a class by himself when it comes to unreliable narrators.
Great writing marred by discursive and inexplicable subplots, problems with the overall story structure, much too slow a pace, and a murky ending that I found totally incomprehensible. Stylistically, it's great at times, but there are just too many logic problems and weird characterization glitches for me to really think it was a good book. However, there are a few passages that should be textbook examples of building suspense.
There's nobody who writes like Jim Thompson, and that's the truth. There are crazy things in this book, and if you keep reading, they keep getting crazier. Is it one long metaphor? Is it psychological horror? Is it a comment on the American dream? I'd hazard that the answer is yes, but it's also one hell of a read.
I hesitate between a 4 or a 5 star rating. It was not flawed. It was masterful. But did I love it? Hmm. It started out with a classic noir plot but the details were so interesting and the writing was so remarkable, then it veered into the totally unpredictable. Then it just kept veering.
simply the greatest psycho noir novel written. Carl Bigelow, the self-delusional hit man, is a brilliant creation, as he's literally disintegrating throughout the novel. The ending is devastating. I love Jim Thompson's books, and this is my favorite.
A shadowy crime boss known as ‘The Man’ sends contract killer Carl Bigelow to a small town, on a mission to kill a man, by the name of Jake Winroy.
Acutely aware of his weaknesses, Carl is attracted to ugliness, as he sees himself reflected in it.Savage Night is a suspenseful crime novel about a vulnerable narrator, who is both a victim and perpetrator, that explores the ugly side of the human condition.
A mob assassin, Charlie Bigger, insinuates himself into a small town as part of his plan for killing a witness in an upcoming trial.
This plan, of course, proves to be unnecessarily complicated, as the conventions of noir sometimes require.
But Jim Thompson adds to the mix a startling grotesquerie that turns Savage Night into something altogether new in the noir vein.
I will say nothing more about this, as Savage Night should not be experienced by summary, but I will note that it is easy to imagine Flannery O'Connor learning a few of her tricks from Jim Thompson.First reading: circa 2006Second reading: 17 September 2010
Despite a varied cast of wacky characters and a tense situation, this is, sadly, not Thompson's best. His books, even when works of startling nihilistic genius, always have a little something of the American cartoonish about them. This one had a bit too much of that and not quite enough of the existential angst that makes for his best character portraits, those pulp novels in which his losers, anti-heroes, alcoholics, and psychopaths wind down their lonely and alienated roads of fate to murder, madness, and oblivion.
SAVAGE NIGHT by Jim Thompson. Why did I give it five stars? I think right up until the ending, it was a 3.5- to 4-star book. But the ending pushed it over the edge. No spoilers here. The only way you'll get to know what happens is if you read the book all the way to the final chapter, and then over the edge. Eeeek! Loved it!!!
not my thing... didnt finish it and passed it on.
not my thing... didn´t finish it and passed it on.
A terrific Noir set-up with an uneven follow through and a confusing conclusion.
Nobody writes about characters at the end of their ropes like Jim Thompson does. This book was a nightmare and I loved every page of it.
It's like this...
whenever I read one of these 'hard-boiled' crime type novels I can't help but read it in a James Cagney's voice...
This I believe was my first Jim Thompson novel and I really did enjoy it.
what more could you ask for?"Sure there's a hell..." I could hear him saying it now, now, as I lay here in bed with her breath in my face, and her body squashed against me...
Yes, there is a hell, my boy, and you do not have to dig for it..."
With all the trademark paranoia and inevitable descent into ruin inherent in Thompson’s world, Savage Night is about as rock-solid a story as you can get from the master of the American Nightmare.
Despite this, Thompson occasionally can create memorable femme fatales (read The Grifters) and you can often see the subtle cracks in the veneer of their “act” which possibly makes them all the more dangerous.Savage Night, like nearly all of Thompson’s novels, contains a brutal and suprising finale that finishes long before you realise your hand is over your mouth and you are yet to exhale.
I struggled like crazy through the most of this book.
Like so much pulp, it has a lot of filler, and it was just plain hard to follow, with so many of the characters st-st-stuttering.
Also -- and not, alas, in a Céline sort of way -- there's...a lot of...ellipsis...
Suddenly, in the last eight pages or so, the writing dramatically improved and the book became wonderfully, inspiringly weird.
It's the first time I ever truly enjoyed Thompson's writing, and his reputation as a dimestore Dostoevesky was at last justified.
Yeah, I'd say it was definitely worth...140 pages of filler and...th-th-this kind of thing...t-to get to th-that...ending...
There's an old joke I thought of while reading Savage Night: It's not paranoia if they're really out to get you.Jim Thompson's novel is a blistering, short and wild read.
It's occasionally trips over itself as it zigs and zags, is more than occasionally hard to follow, but it's a fun, disturbing ride.
Most of the book hinges around on identity: if Bigelow is really somebody else, who else is pretending - and who are they after?Savage Night is a short novel that's somewhat of a mess.
It's disturbing, violent and more often than not, hard to follow.
"Sure there's a hell .
I could hear him saying it now, now, as I lay here in bed with her breath in my face, and her body squashed against me .
It is the drab desert where the sun sheds neither warmth nor light and Habit force-feeds senile Desire.
Yes, there is a hell, my boy, and you do not have to dig for it .
" Another weird ending in this story by Jim Thompson.
Standard noir fare (JT style), for much of this story, but the ending verges on the surreal.
Overall though, i 'enjoyed' this as much as one can enjoy a novel by Thompson.

The plot is a stranger comes to town.
It's a creepy tale told by Carl Bigelow or Little Charlie Bigger, a hitman, mistaken for a student when he comes to town.
This is pulp fiction at its best.
Men calling Carl, "sonny," offering him menial work.
But who is he going to kill?
And why does he go to classes?
Who is The Man?
The Fruit Jar shows up and it's clear that Little Bigger, as they call him, has psychopathic tendencies.
I couldn' guess the ending and it stayed with me for a long time.
Moments of brilliance and flashes of morbid insanity tempered by occasional lapses of turgid explorations of minutiae, all redeemed/ruined by one of the most absurdly surreal endings of any crime novel I could hope to imagine.
There's a running theme of duality, mainly relating to the characters' true motives versus the lies they present; ultimately, Savage Night, both in plot and writing style, appears as a whole to be yet another demonstration of that same theme...
it makes out to be a crime novel, but ultimately proves to be something far...
weirder.
Not brilliant, but I enjoyed the hell out of it.
Why isn't Jim Thompson worshipped by lovers of dark mystery? In this instance, he takes a mundane noir story and turns it into a fever dream. There were so many disturbing twists and images throughout the book (especially the end) that it's unfair to catalog them in a review. Too dark for everybody except Connie :-)
There's a reason they say thompson was a master at the noir and this book doesn't lie. His ending will have you flipping, and his characters are so terrifically down and out you just wanna jump in and fix things. But, resist and keep reading, caz. Thompson fixes things real good!Just can't get enough of this guy!
Interesting story told from a hitman's perspective - for the most part the narrative is pretty conventional (though entertaining), before turning weird and surreal during the last ten pages. That ending makes me wonder what sort of non-crime fiction Thompson might have been capable of, had he set his mind to it (and had his precarious finances allowed such a diversion).
