https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/419409.Green_Grass_of_Wyoming
And, as every perfect moment brings with it the inevitability of the fall, these stories teach us how to live with and through those moments when every breath you take feels like a knife to your throat and ice in your heart.
This book, the final in the trilogy, tells of Ken and his wild white stallion Thunderhead who is roaming free on the Wyoming ranges.
Green Grass of Wyoming sees all of this come together and inevitably, painfully, beautifully, start to conclude the trilogy.How best to describe this book then?
I adored this entire trilogy--all three books were SO different.
Flicka had the freshness and determined idealism of youth.
In Thunderhead there was a darkness that hung overhead--more than a storm, more than the uncertainty of adolescence, it was not a comfortable read.
But Green Grass of Wyoming has so much more.
It's complex.
It has hope.
I don't know how many times I have read this...10?
Maybe 20 times...The build up to the race is awesome.
Ken gets out from under the cloud of his father and older brother.
Read it...and enjoy.Let me know what you think...
Unlike the previous books this story looks at an adult woman's role in the difficult setting and harsh life style of running a ranch.
The passion and failures between the two are brought out in this story to show the growth that continues throughout life.
Nell, her children, and life on the ranch in another era are both endearing and heartbreaking.These are books to be read as an adult to understand all that was being told.
As a child I missed a lot of the tension and growth that requires similar experiences to comprehend.
This is My Friend Flicka and Thunderhead for the grown-ups, with the focus on Nell and her marriage to Rob. Compelling, not just entertaining. I read it for itself, not just as the sequel to the above two...of the three, this is the one I reread as an adult.
A very tame 1940's type novel that probably some kids could read, but belongs in the adult fiction.
That was my favorite part the Wyoming setting.I didn't really love it, but I don't like animal characters.
I'm giving it a 3 because it is not a bad book, if you like animals who have feelings and are given emotions.
They do not talk in this book.
I would have stopped reading if they'd talked.
I would have given it a 2 rating too.Anyway if you like animal stories with some human romance, this one is for you.
Mary O'Hara was writing young adult before it was a thing.
This is a beautiful little book about boy's coming of age, his relationship with his home and his horses, and the responsibilities all that incurs.OK, so it's a little trope-y.
But O'Hara takes her characters seriously, dealing with issues of faith (including a 10+ page diversion into the nature and love of God), marriage and brotherhood.
Her narrative from the perspective of the horses is quite lovely(I may be a little biased), and I thoroughly enjoyed as a palate cleanser between too much DuBus and Munro.
A wonderful old-fashioned novel with evocative descriptions, a plot that gallops along, and a thoroughly adult main character, Nell. But there are also horses, dogs, cats, a very sweet romance, and a coming of age subplot. Reading this book is sort of like getting a nickel cherry coke at the drugstore soda fountain. It's not sophisticated but it's good and you are ever so grateful that there's still a soda fountain.
The conclusion to the Flicka trilogy, Mary O'Hara's Green Grass of Wyoming is a wonderful culmination of the previous two stories' plot lines.
Ken, now a young man, must overcome his fears and uncertainties as he works to track down the rogue stallion.
His desire to find the stallion wars with his newfound friendship with one of the stolen mare's owners, young Carey.
A dramatic and passionate novel, Green Grass of Wyoming is a delightful read for readers 9+.
This novel answers the question we all have had: what happens to make a starry-eyed youth become a man?
I loved how Ken finally found someone he was in love with and how they went together to find Thunderhead. I hated how Carey's grandmother had so much control over her though and how everyone listened to her because of her magical "charm". But in the end, this was one of my favorite books.
This is an amazing, wonderful story. Don't miss it.
Definitely an adult book. Was a bit put off by the whole Ken/Carey relationship; is that really how teens thought in the 40s? I don't know.
Part three in the series that began with my friend Flicka and continues as Ken grows up.
Just a note - I have the hardcover edition but that didn't turn up on my search.
I'm not too worried about it.
I was excited to find a book about Wyoming - it's my native state!
:)WOW!
EVERYBODY SHOULD READ THIS BOOK!
Ok, I'm done with all caps.
Mary O'Hara is officially one of the most talented writers I've ever read.
I was completely and totally sucked into this story.
It's romantic, exciting, suspenseful, very very intense (especially toward the end when you're flying through the pages wondering what is going to happen!).
I'll definitely be reading more of O'Hara's books.
READ THIS!
In this installment of the My Friend Flicka trilogy the story gets a little bit weird for me, and loses a star.Nell, my favorite, suffers anxiety after the birth of her daughter and it brings out her religious side.Rob, with his hard shell and soft middle, does an abrupt about face in the end.
It happened so quickly.
It would have been much more believable if O'Hara had taken more time earlier in the story to set it up.
Ken, the passionate dreamer, gets uncomfortably possessive with his girlfriend Carey.
Last of the My Friend Flicka Trilogy, and Ken's final coming of age tale.More sprawling than the initial two books, this takes you off the ranch and out of the mountains.
Wraps up the series nicely.
Ken is clearly still very sensitive.
I had to hunt this book down and re-order it after a fire, years ago, not realizing it was out of print.
It was definitely worth the work to get myself another copy.
Didn't feel right without all 3 books...
if you've only read the first, it is worth giving the other 2 a read.
I loved this book!
Read it in my teens after the other 2 of course and it was my favourite!
Perfectly dramatic and full of horses, it fulfilled all my teenage longing.
O'Hara writes so descriptively about the beauty of Wyoming.
If the subject were relevant and popular today, the film version of this book would require a set like that of the Lord of the Rings trilogy to truly bring it to justice.
I was very disappointed with the most recent version of Flicka(Black horse??
Really?)but I know this one won't be attempted so it will stay pristine in its' book format.
If THunderhead is at least an adultish teen book, Green Grass of Wyoming is definitely an adult book. Ken is no longer even the center: it's his mother, Nell who takes center stage for most of the novel. It's a great horse book, but don't class it in with The Black Stallion or even My Friend Flicka.Having said that, Green Grass of Wyoming is not just a horse book, and I think any reader who wants an interesting examination of human relationships should give it a look.
yes, this was a favorite, still is, but I always used to skip the chapter where Nell gets philosophical on the meaning of life and love. It was too much, too deep, for the horse-crazy kid that I was. Get on to the mountain scenery, the semi-wild horses or the race scene, already! Good read for the young teen who still loves a horse story with a sweet romance.
I liked "Green Grass of Wyoming" as a young girl because it was both a horse book and a romance. Though again, like the previous two, there was much of the family drama that I just didn't understand. However, I did learn the valuable expression, "Go chase yourself"--although I've never had a reason to use.
Alas, this one wasn't as good as My Friend Flicka or Thunderhead. I found the writing a bit clumsy at times, especially on some of the apparent Christian tirades that pop up, and didn't find Casey and Ken's relationship to be well-drawn or even very plausible. Worth the time, yes, but not to the extent that the earlier books are.
Satisfying end to the trilogy. When I was in elementary school, I used to read the trilogy every year. The horses are real three-dimensional characters here and not just the people. The McLaughlins are just as bizarre as ever. They certainly would be in jail for their horse training tactics today. Thunderhead is one of the best equine heroes in literature.
The last one ! Weirdly enough, I didn't remember either the strong religious undertones or the ending. It was, however, a beautiful finale; the thing that stuck with me most, like for the other two, was the wonderful descriptions of Wyoming. I want to go back so bad.
Chronicles of Han Storm Book Club ReadA classical book describing life, relationships and survival in the Australian Bush. Subconsciously, the lessons stuck and helped me through tough times in my own life. A definite read for any child that likes animals.
Green Grass of Wyoming unnecessarily reopens things that had been beautifully resolved in Thunderhead. Plus, Nell's sense of injury, which was mildly off-putting in the earlier book, gets really irritating in this one. Is there a lesson for serial writers here?
My mom has been telling me to read this series my whole life and I finally did and loved them! I liked My Friend Flicka the best. It was so sweet and full of true love; Ken and his horse Flicka. You couldn't ask for a better summer series!
The third and last of my childhood horse-crazy series. A little wordier than the other two - but equally as enjoyable.
Another one of my favorite childhood books...I read this book several times.
I LOVED this book! It has adventure and romance and wonderful values and a simplicity that is refreshing.
Loved it. Nothing like I remember the movie, but I think her descriptions are fantastic and insightful.
This was one of my favorite books when I was growing up
