https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35887193-the-perfect-mother
Her friends from her group are also forced to question how much they really know Winnie, and each other.Molloy captures what it is like to drive yourself a little crazy trying to be that elusive "perfect mother" and shows the dark events that can unfold in the wake of such impossible aspirations.
These women - each from different backgrounds with very different financial situations - put strains on their relationships and careers to help find Winnie's baby.The Perfect Mother is being called a "thriller", which I suppose technically it is, but it is far more a tale of motherhood and female friendship in all their beautiful, vicious glory.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube
They met a couple of times a week and shared what was happening in their lives and with their babies.
Is anyone who they claim to be?Will a group of three determined mothers be able to help reunite mother and child?I really enjoyed this interesting and unique story about motherhood, betrayals, secrets, and lies.The author included “Today’s Advice” at the start of each chapter; a blurb with advice or information about the stages of emotional, social, or physical development.
The kind of advice that seems helpful but can also make a new mother crazy at times, wondering if their baby is developing at the “right” pace.
*3.6ish Stars*...because I’m annoyingly indecisive with ratings!  “Mothers and babies. You’re everywhere. I hope you appreciate everything you have.”  Meet The May Mothers: A newly-acquainted group of first-time moms who’ve all delivered their babies in the month of May. They trade parenting tips, share undiluted birthing stories, vent about their constant lack of sleep...nothing glaringly out of the ordinary here. Until one of their babies goes missing during a much-needed girl’s night out. And
Meet The May Mothers: A newly-acquainted group of first-time moms who’ve all delivered their babies in the month of May. They trade parenting tips, share undiluted birthing stories, vent about their constant lack of sleep...nothing glaringly out of the ordinary here.
What ensues is an energizing string of amateur sleuthing, local news reports, police questioning, mommies with a mission, and suspicion sprinkled indiscriminately throughout.This author did a fantastic job portraying the anxieties and concerns of first-time moms, all of whom host their own set of personal challenges: the guilt they feel working with their babies left at home, or those twinges of regret and pangs of insignificance that linger after giving up their careers entirely.
What really hit home for me is the fact that one of my daughters has a 2 and 4 year old and I can remember how flustered and upset she was with her first baby, particularly since she is in another state with no family close by.
I remember my pregnancies and early years with four daughters and I think things are worse now with too much information available on the internet.
I remember I had two “baby books” both of which I ended up tossing!The novel also hits upon sensationalism by the news media.
"This will be great. A few hours out. A slice of freedom...Nothing we'll regret. Just one drink."  This story had me reading through the night. It was full of twists & turns and secrets & lies. Trying to unravel it all was difficult because the story is told via various (unreliable) points of view. At times it was difficult to tell where 1 character's thoughts began and another's ended. Things jumped from person to person but honestly, I felt that it added to the overall frantic pacing
Just one drink."   This story had me reading through the night.
Trying to unravel it all was difficult because the story is told via various (unreliable) points of view.
The plot centers around a group of new mothers who form a friendship over the internet to share the joys & pressures of motherhood - the May Mothers.
One of the things I really enjoyed was the frank portrayal of motherhood.
The sleepless nights, the uncertainty, the love, the hormones and the pressure to be the perfect mother.
Everyone had secrets, told lies and added to the twists.
It’s every parent’s worst nightmare.
I eagerly try to use my amateur sleuthing skills to figure out the “who-dunnit” before it’s revealed.
I tend to look a little like this:While, I found this to be a very light and easy read, I was also letdown.
In a psychological thriller, I value character development, and while this book had some characterization elements, it was overall lacking.
There were too many characters involved for that to be wholly achieved.If you are looking for a great beach read and you like psychological thrillers, this would a perfect match.
I’m giving this an overall rating of 3 stars.
Now that was one twisty read!!The May Mothers – A group of new moms form a casual friendship, getting together to share their experiences and support one another.
But once rolling, it flowed smoothly and I couldn’t put it down!Told from multiple POV from those in the mommy’s group.
Here’s the challenge - you may think you have this one down.
You may think you have it all figured out.
A wonderful Traveling Sister read!!For this review and our full Traveling Sister review please visit Brenda and Norma’s fabulous blog: https://twosisterslostinacoulee.com/
The one I've noticed lately are about groups of women, who have children or are expecting a child.
They begin meeting when they are still expecting, a group of mothers all whom will be giving birth in May. The babies are then called May babies, and we get to hear some of their birth stories and the struggles they have trying to balance the mxny different facets of life while trending to s newborn.
Whilevout one of the women's baby is kidnapped.What this book does so well is showing how the press distorts reality, doing anything to get and keep a story in the publics eye.
This was a mixed bag for me for the following reasons:- I'm not a fan of the confession monologue as a means to solve a crime- I found it difficult to keep the characters straight and needed to jot notes down as I read.- But I loved the focus on motherhood and how difficult it is to balance those first few months. - I liked the focus on the part the media plays in sensationalizing crimes and their rush to judgement. - loved the the "Nancy Grace" character who vilified the moms for having a drink
I thought there was an opportunity lost - the author made much of some of the marital difficulties that often come with new parenthood but didn't really explore them in depth - I know this wasn't a police procedural but I would have liked to have read the perspective from the detectives working the case.
Overall, I really liked the messages about new motherhood, the shaming of women caught in a scandal, the exploration of the media's role in sensationalizing a crime, and the rush to assign blame and convict in the court of public opinion.
I literally have no idea how I am going to write this review.
I’ve had my eye on The Perfect Mother by Aimee Molloy for MONTHS.
Then, to find out The Perfect Mother is going to be a movie with Kerry Washington?
My DD was due in August so I had joined the group and met a bunch of moms with the same due month.
During the May Mothers big night out, a baby goes missing.This was told through many perspectives and I’ll admit I had to back up sometimes to figure out who I was reading.
The baby is two months old, and I'm still wearing maternity pants."This, folks, is reality.
The soon-after-birth reality that visits the "May Mothers" (with little hatchlings all born in the month of May).
Mommas and babies usually wear an aura of vulnerability naturally.
With PeekABoo app on her phone, Winnie is able to glance in on her sleeping Midas in his crib.
Each woman appears to wear a veneer with lies seeping across the skin's surface.
Each woman sifts through the past hours in search of the truth......or their version of the truth.The Perfect Mother is scheduled for a film starring Kerry Washington.
The Perfect Mother by Aimee Molloy is a psychological thriller that easily will have readers on the edge of their seat as the story involves a missing infant.
This one is told from multiple points of view including an unknown voice involved in the story.
It actually was done pretty well though so I wouldn't let the multiple points of view scare anyone away.
But when it was all said and done I do think readers are really going to enjoy this one and can't wait to see how the movie turns out.
A group of new mothers opt for a night out and during that time, one of their babies goes missing.
These aren’t long time friends, they all met through a website for new parents in Brooklyn and bonded because their due dates were all in the same month.
The other mothers don’t think the police are doing a good job with their investigation and start their own.
But at the same time, they aren’t all being entirely honest.
What grabbed me about the book is how it correctly paints our current news atmosphere with its need to look for villains from the get go.
A clever page-turner!A mother’s group goes out for a fun get together at the local bar.
Then one mom gets a call from the babysitter.I used to be in a mommy group and we would meet every week to support each other (called Super Moms).
This mommy group (May Mothers) is going through hell after one of the babies goes missing.This book got me out of my reading slump.
The ladies have a strong bond and are supportive of each other.
They are also shrewd and had me tensing up at some of their antics.A clever ending that surprised me.
This would be a perfect summer/beach read.
In “The Perfect Mother” a group of expectant mothers gather frequently to discuss pregnancy and raising their newborns.
These women were not previously acquainted, but soon find themselves forming strong bonds over their shared experiences.
Strong bonds and a closeness that belie the somewhat superficial nature of their relationships.
When one of their babies goes missing, they discover how little they really know about each other and Molloy excels at slowing revealing their secrets through clever misdirection and surprising plot twists.
A very realistic look at the lives of new parents and a suspenseful and riveting plot make this a definite recommendation.
ABOUT THIS BOOK: An addictive psychological thriller about a group of women whose lives become unexpectedly connected when one of their newborns goes missing.They call themselves the May Mothers—a collection of new moms who gave birth in the same month.
Now Midas is missing, the police are asking disturbing questions, and Winnie’s very private life has become fodder for a ravenous media.Though none of the other members in the group are close to the reserved Winnie, three of them will go to increasingly risky lengths to help her find her son.
Thank you to Hachette Australia via Netgalley for providing a digital copy of The Perfect Mother by Aimee Molloy for review.
The new mommy character is in sweet abundance in Aimee Molloy's debut The Perfect Mother.
This is where the plot really begins.The mommies decide to go out for a well-deserved girls' night and it is on this night that one of their infants is abducted at home right out of the baby's crib.
I think Molloy perfectly captures the angst, insecurity and need for perfection most new moms go through in 2018.
There is a snarky Nancy Grace style reporter who is determined to shame the baby mamas for having a fun time out when they should be home with their children.
3.75 Stars.In Brooklyn, a group of mothers to-be, all due in the month of May, coined “The May Mothers” start a meet-up, sharing stories and bonding over impending motherhood.
Thereafter, the May Mothers come together, investigating.
“The Perfect Mother” is told from several different perspectives, some of which are confusing at first.
Though it starts off a little slow, the novel picks up at the mid-way point and takes off so quickly that I couldn’t flip the pages fast enough.
“The Perfect Mother” is a slow burn, character driven suspense novel that definitely kept my interest.
Unfortunately, this did affect my enjoyment for the story and therefore lowered my overall rating.
AIMEE MOLLOY delivers a well-written read here with an interesting and unique storyline told from multiple perspectives which focuses mainly on a group of women who stop at nothing as they come together to investigate the disappearance of Baby Midas.
Thank you so much to Edelweiss, Aimee Molloy, and HarperCollins for the opportunity to read an advanced copy of this book in exchange for a review.Review written and posted on our themed book blog:Two Sisters Lost In A Coulee Readinghttps://twosisterslostinacoulee.com
⭐⭐⭐⭐💫 / 5 red herring filled stars! I read The Perfect Mother by Aimee Molloy as a buddy read with Heather from @nature.books.and.coffee, Shannon from @givemeallthebooks, Emily from @book.happy, and Jamie from @beauty_andthebooks_ and I think it is safe to say that we all really enjoyed this thriller, and it was a complete binge read for almost all of us. I didn’t really know what to think of this book as I was reading it, but then I got towards the end and WHAM, it changed the entire book for m
I read The Perfect Mother by Aimee Molloy as a buddy read with Heather from @nature.books.and.coffee, Shannon from @givemeallthebooks, Emily from @book.happy, and Jamie from @beauty_andthebooks_ and I think it is safe to say that we all really enjoyed this thriller, and it was a complete binge read for almost all of us.
I can’t always relate to viewpoints from mom’s, but Molloy made it easy for someone without kids of their own to enjoy this whole book no matter whose POV you were reading.
Final Thought: I think that even if you aren’t a mom you will appreciate this book.
The Perfect Mother: Try to do it all and chances are you will fail at something or feel like you’re failing even if you’re not.
During the first and only night out at a local hot spot, the unthinkable happens when one of the “May Mothers’” infants goes missing.
What follows is a well-plotted, fast-moving story focusing on how little these friends really know about each other.
This book will give mothers (and others) nightmares.
Kerry Washington’s intent to bring this to big screen aside, this book has all of the hallmarks of being this summer’s “must read.”
4.5/5 stars for this addictive, engaging read! Find my full review here: http://crimebythebook.com/blog/2018/1...This is a fantastic "popcorn read" - aka the kind of suspense novel you just want to binge on! Fans of Liane Moriarty and B.A. Paris will love this pacey, engrossing story of secrets, group dynamics, and interpersonal tension. Couple this with a cast of compelling female leads, and you've got a winner! Highly recommended for addictive, unputdownable spring reading.
3.5 StarsNorma and I were lost in the sunny, grassy lush coulee with five of our Traveling Sisters reading The Perfect Mother and we really enjoyed our reading experience and discussion on this story.
The Perfect Mother is a fun, entertaining and engaging story with a bit of dark to it that had us feeling comfortable in our sunny, grassy coulee from any unsettling scenes from this story.
Aimee Molloy creates some interesting characters here with the group of “May Mothers”.
At times we did feel that the story lacked some emotion that we needed to feel to connect with the grieving Mom, Winnie.
Library Audiobook...read by Christin MiliotiMaybe the screen version will be more entertaining.
I like Kerry Washington who will be in the cast.
I admit to liking the screen time to “Big Little Lies”better than the book.
The A- rated cast made it very entertaining.
After living through my own sleepless nights 34 years ago - I don’t need hours of non-stop Audiobook listening reminders.
The mom I was most interested in knowing more as a person was ‘Winnie’ ....
compared to the other moms and single dad.
Long legs Single mom Once a hit movie star etc.
but very little about her as a person.
The Goodreads blurb reveals the answer to that—the single mother’s baby is abducted.The May Mothers are a group of women who met when pregnant and decided to form a little group when they realised their babies were all due in May. That part I understand.
What I didn’t quite understand were the emails circulated periodically, such as: “TO: May MothersFROM: Your friends at the Village	DATE: July 4SUBJECT: Today’s adviceYOUR BABY: DAY 51This seventh week, you baby should start to master muscle control—kicking, wiggling, and holding her head up, nice and strong.
2 Stars   I wanted to like The Perfect Mother.
We are introduced to a few side characters like Token (nicknamed that for being the only male in a all women baby support group) and a few other Mother's that reappear in this novel but we are mostly focused on the core 4 throughout this thriller.
I also found it weirdly frustrating with how they involved themselves in the case, a majority of this story had me questioning the Mother's and their obsessive interest in the missing child and who did it.
I know this book is in production to be a movie starring Kerry Washington.
A mommy-group night out leads to tragedy and heartbreak.It is Fourth of July and some new mothers who usually gather around in a park once in a while with their new born babies and discuss diaper rashes, baby-pukes, etc., decide to take a break and have some deserved fun; that is, to leave their babies with their husbands or baby-sitters and have a couple of drinks in a posh bar and unwind.But the fun doesn’t last long, as they soon realize that the baby of one of their friends have been abducted, while the hired nanny was passed out on the sofa.That is when fingers begin pointing and lives are changed.
This book started off promising enough, but I quickly grew bored with the story.
I don't really know what it was, but this book started boring me after the first hundred pages.
I just wanted to find out what happened to the baby, and that is what kept me reading all the way till the end.
This book is being compared to Big Little Lies, but these characters aren't nearly as complex as the females of Big Little Lies.
The only reason this book is similar to Big Little Lies is because it follows a group of Mother's dealing with the same event, in that book it's a murder, in this one it's the disappearance of a baby.
With the perfect combination of thrills and shrills;  The Perfect Mother  not only entertains, but also provokes societal norms that we as a society deal with on a daily basis. The story surrounds a group of mothers (and one father) who call themselves the May Mothers. The May Mothers are all first-time parents who have not only aligned together for comradery, but for validation as well. This group leans on each other for support and complimentary banter. The group mainly centers around Francie,
As their routine begins to feel predictable and insipid, the group decides that they need a night out for themselves.
The May Mothers decide that they will leave their children at home and spend the night out in celebration for the 4th of July.
not only successfully ropes you in with its sheer thrilling plot, but also shows you how society has "trained" parents (especially mothers) on how to be a "successful parent".
Throughout the story, we see how the May Mothers have to not only deal with a crisis, but also struggle with how to raise their children without damaging or ruining their pivotal first moments.
This psychological thriller had me riveted to the story from the very first page.They are called the May Mothers ...
one of the babies is taken out of his crib, out of his home and no one knows where he is.
The babysitter was sleeping, she never heard anyone enter or leave the apartment.So who has baby boy Midas?
The baby's mother who was having a hard time being a single mom?
One of the other mothers ...or father?
It becomes a heart-wrenching race to find the baby, exposing those secrets and lies to the light of day.
