https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35959808-the-fallen
David Baldacci’s latest Amos Decker novel touches on some timely material while keeping the reader enthralled throughout.
Baldacci has another winner with this novel, which keeps the reader guessing while addressing some of the poignant topics making their way into news headlines around the world.
Paring down the series characters, Baldacci focuses on Decker and Jamison, allowing both to develop some more of their backstories/personal sides and offering the reader something on which they can relate.
With chapters that keep the narrative flowing effectively and keeps the reader wondering what’s coming next, Baldacci has another winner with this novel in an established series.
Amos Decker maintains his personality and weird little quirks despite a few doubts creeping in from time to time.Parts of this probably overlong book are slow - never boring but slow.
There is a fair amount of unnecessary detail and the introduction of an awful lot of characters.
He shows a lot more empathy than before and there are some lovely exchanges between him and Jamison's six year old niece.
He seems to be beginning to come to terms with the loss of his own wife and daughter.Now I am wondering if there will be an Amos Decker #5.
Amos Decker and his FBI partner Alex Jamison take a vacation to Baronville to visit Alex's sister, brother-in-law to celebrate her niece's sixth birthday, only to discover two murdered people in a neighbor's abandoned house.
Amos figures out the identity of the corpses and learns there are been four other recent unsolved murders, which eventually are pinned on John Baron, the despised descendant of the town's founder and scion.
Dogged as ever, Amos keeps digging and discovers a truly rotten core and some despicable people.
The highlight of the book is Amos's relationship with Alex's niece, Zoe, with whom he makes a special connection.
This was an incredible, fast-paced book with so many different criminal aspects going on, along with a messed up supporting cast.
Seriously, some of these people were train wrecks of human beings.
Even though some are what you would usually say are no likeable, it actually does not even cross your mind because you are too busy being amused by these messed up human beings to even consider liking them or not.
The plot has a personal touch to it and also has Decker going through different changes with his head injury, but really it was the criminal activity of this book that has you wondering what the hell is wrong with this town and its citizens.
The Fallen is a thrill ride from start to finish and I guarantee this book will draw appeal for loyal fans of the series and newcomers.Amos Decker is supposed to be on a short vacation with FBI partner Alex Jamison, in the small town of Baronville, situated in Pennsylvania.
It is a fight to the death to stop any further murders from taking place and to try and save the desperately crumbling town of Baronville from further despair.The Fallen, the latest novel from international bestselling author David Baldacci, was one exhilarating thriller that kept me completely engaged for the entire novel.
Those qualities make him a unique character - the biggest reason I'm a big fan.These days, Amos and his partner Alex Jamison work with the FBI (another personal "connection" since my late mother's maiden name is Jamison).
Still another coincidence; the area in which I live - just off Interstate 80 - is a hot spot for distribution centers as well.Amos and Alex are hoping for a few days of down time, but that changes quickly when Amos notices some strange sights and sounds at the house behind the one they're in.
Instead of low-key downtime, Decker and Jamison are drawn into the investigation to assist local law enforcement because this is no typical case.
The case morphs into something bigger when it appears to connect with another group of murders that happened earlier.
What distinguishes this story is Decker’s apparent self identity crisis brought on by events associated with his involvement that even had me a bit concerned.
I’m excited to see this character evolve, even if it’s only small steps.
The case was compelling and often exciting, especially the climax.
Then, everything goes to hell!That is all you need to know about the story that and that there will be dead bodies, lots of secrets and the most important thing of all, never trust anyone!THE FALLEN is an action filled book that thrilled me from the beginning until the end.
One thing for sure, and that is some people will regret that Amos Decker decided to tag along with Alex...Personally, did I find this book to be hard to put down, then again that's what I expected from this book since Baldacci always writes heart-pounding, page-turning thrillers.
Okay, I'm OD'ing on David Baldacci.....Read all the Will Robie books, too - Yikes!!Time to change the channel.
"I'm wondering who's going to die next." - Amos DeckerA whole scam of a town, a racket - described phenomenally.
A series of murders that keep coming your way makes you turn the pages rapidly.The plot is complex and gripping.
Murders involving one or two victims are everywhere but this time, David Baldacci has involved the whole city of Baronville.
Reading about people with photographic memories has always fascinated me.
Yet, you could never know what they were plotting.This is what made The Fallen an enthralling read.Recommended for David Baldacci fans.
This is the fourth book in the Memory Man series and while not my favorite it was entertaining and timely.Amos Decker and his partner Alex Jamison are visiting Alex's sister and her family and in Baronville, Pennsylvania.
The next murder strikes close to home and Decker vows to find out what is going on in Baronville.Actually there are a lot of different things going on that will keep the reader guessing at the truth.
Perhaps too many bad guys for a small town but with the drug addicts and dealers this isn't Mayberry.As I mentioned earlier this isn't my favorite book in the series but David Baldacci is a good story teller.

Another mediocre story that barely earns a passing grade from the Baldacci factory. 3 of 10 stars
I hate to give this a bad review, as I like the Amos Decker character, but this book was all over the place. It was scattered, poorly written, and the characters were undeveloped. I was disappointed.
I get a lot of books from Goodreads Giveaways but this was one of the very best.
Decker is a smart, savy and dedicated FBI agent, who is still investigating while on vacation.
His partner, Alex knows him well and is great at backup.
Strange sounds are heard, drugs are rampant and there are several murders that are initially hard to solve for anyone.
There are several suspects, more than one thing wrong, and there is a long lost treasure.
The plot moves quickly and the reader is engaged.
I couldn't put it down.
A phenomenal read!
5 stars This hit close to home with grief. If I can I do a review, I shall. It still hurts to talk about. Sorry.
Probably because I live in a western Pennsylvania town that is experiencing much of the same problems that Baronville does in this book with being a former steel town that now has a lot of unemployment and multiple overdoses on a daily basis.What bothered me most about The Fallen, though, was at times I felt like I was reading a Scooby Doo and the Gang comic, complete with the cranky, nasty old man that you could just picture gleefully rubbing his hands together to plot the demise of anyone who crosses him.
So while this isn't among my favorites of Mr. Baldacci's work, it IS still a decent book worth the read.
Amos Decker is sleuthing again- on his vacation visiting his partner’s family in Baronville, Pa. He soon discovers that there are A LOT of vitriolic issues, deaths and other weird and ugly minutiae happening in Baronville, Pa, a worn down, financially ruined old mill town.
Like a dog with a bone, Amos is determined to discover how and why people are staying in such a decrepit town.
👍 I also liked the growing character development in Amos.
👍 I LOVE AMOS DECKER!
THE FALLEN can be a stand alone, but to fully appreciate the depths of Amos Decker’s dynamic character, one should really read the series from the start!
Another great Amos Decker (Memory Man) book. Love his character -- a little more growth this time. Check the blurb for the synopsis. Complex plot with lots of characters, including the town of Baronville.I primarily listened to it, and it was well done.
The Fallen is a fast-paced thriller with a great plot!Ales Jamison and Amos Decker are on vacation. Alex takes Amos to visit her sister's family in Baronville, PA. Alex's sister, her husband, and their young daughter Zoe have moved recently to Baronville due to a promotion.On the first night of their vacation, Amos sees something in the house closest to them. He goes immediately to investigate it. His search yields two dead bodies. When the cops get there, Amos learns this is not the first murd
The Fallen is a fast-paced thriller with a great plot!Ales Jamison and Amos Decker are on vacation.
Alex takes Amos to visit her sister's family in Baronville, PA.
Alex's sister, her husband, and their young daughter Zoe have moved recently to Baronville due to a promotion.On the first night of their vacation, Amos sees something in the house closest to them.
When the cops get there, Amos learns this is not the first murder.
From the new characters, I liked John Baron.
In The Fallen, everything was much more personal for Alex.
Book 4 in the Memory Man series is The Fallen by David Baldacci.
“Decker and his partner, Alex Jamison, go to visit her sister in Baronville - a town that’s struggling except for the new Fulfillment Center.
Decker stumbles onto two bodies in the house next door.
Before he knows it, he is investigating drug smugglers, insurance fraud and a legendary buried treasure.
How many more will die?” Baldacci has finally given us a page turner again.
Book has a little of a Reacher feel.
Glad to see DB letting Decker grow and change.
Excellent thriller read from Baldacci.
This wasn’t my favorite of Baldacci’s Memory Man series but it was still a good read. There were so many bad guys it was hard to keep all of them straight. However, it was endearing to see Amos Decker be vulnerable after another whack on the head. His interactions with six year old Zoe were very touching and therapeutic for both. Of course, they solved the nasty crime spree and murders which had paralyzed the small town.
A disappointing read from Baldacci. Amos Decker is a 1 dimensional character who solves a multi-faceted crime all by himself. 3 or 4 sub-plots finally come together in a mish-mash of a final conclusion, which is highly improbable. Sappy dialogue.Audio read by both male and female leads becomes tiresome.
I find reading a Baldacci book is like an exciting roller coaster ride.
In my opinion, one of Baldacci’s best strengths as a writer is his ability to wrap a plot together in such a strong manner where the mystery, suspense, and clues are revealed one at a time like peeling away the layers of an onion.
Amos Decker is one of my favorite Baldacci characters.
If you haven’t tried reading Baldacci, this is a good series to start with if you like fast-paced plotting, robust mystery elements, and interesting multi-dimensional characters.
so Kindle it is and library are for audios only haha.but overall, this was such a fun and creepy book, great story, great and phenomenal climax, and as usual, I can ALWAYS see his books played out as movies/films in my mind and think of how much his books and thrillers need to become films.
he knows how to set up a story, give out clues, makes you think who-dun-it, and make you feel stupid cause you got it wrong haha and have this EPIC climax.
The Fallen is an excellent murder mystery wrapped around a satisfying conspiracy filling.
Amos Decker does his usual savant stuff here but, unlike previous books, this one relies a lot more on his detection skills than it does on his memory.
The small town setting plays a important role in this book due to the feeling of paranoia as well as the history of the place playing a big part in it.
You really don't know whom to trust.Overall, this is a great Amos Decker story with some elements of his personal life coming in.
The only small let down was the books incredible size.
Every time I read one of these, I say to myself, "I don't think I'll read the next one," but then I always do because it has "DAVID BALDACCI" on the cover.
All good things.
It's not my favorite, but still 3 stars for me because of all the good things.My complaints with this one, are the same as the ones I've had with the previous installments.
The dialogue is painful in places.
Even though the story takes place in our current time, some of this sounds so dated.
It sounded like it was right out of a 70's playground.
So 3 stars.
Decker is undoubtedly one of the most unique, interesting, one-of-a-kind, exceptional central detective character for a modern murder-mystery series in recent times in my opinion.
But no matter, Amos Decker made it a blissful breeze, a breathlessly suspenseful and lightning fast wonderful read for me, loving every minute of my hard-earned free times.
And I can totally keep reading tens of more Amos Decker mysteries next without growing tired of his character or Baldacci's brilliance, but unfortunately this is the end for now.
This fourth book in David Baldacci's Amos Decker series, finds Amos and his partner Alex trying to enjoy a few days on vacation at her sister's home, away from solving crimes with the FBI.
This respite only lasts a few hours when Decker finds two bodies in a nearby house and is drawn into not only investigating these crimes but the many other sinister deeds that are consuming the town.
Kyf Brewer and Orlagh Cassidy return to duel narrate this audio book making for a dynamic and engaging listen.
4th book in the Amos Decker series. Decker and Jamison are visiting Jamison's sister in Baronville PA and soon become involved with serial killers. Drugs and hidden treasure from the historic Baron family are the reason for murder. I love how Decker was so sensitive with Jamison's niece, Zoe, after her father becomes a victim. Decker has a talented mind which helps him in crime solving but is his memory starting to fail him? Read this book to find out.
